{"id": "38648271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38648271", "title": "1914 in philosophy", "text": "1914 in philosophy\n\n1914 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1628043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628043", "title": "Adaptationism", "text": "Adaptationism\n\nAdaptationism is the Darwinian view that many physical and psychological traits of organisms are evolved adaptations. Pan-adaptationism is the strong form of this, deriving from the early 20th century modern synthesis, that all traits are adaptations, a view now shared by few biologists. Adaptationists perform research to try to distinguish adaptations (e.g., the umbilical cord) from byproducts (e.g., the belly button) or random variation (e.g., convex or concave shape of the belly button). George Williams' \"Adaptation and Natural Selection\" (1966) was highly influential in its development, defining some of the heuristics used to identify adaptations.\n\nAdaptationism is an approach to studying the evolution of form and function. It attempts to frame the existence and persistence of traits, assuming that each of them arose independently and improved the reproductive success of the organism's ancestors. \nA trait is an adaptation if it fulfils the following criteria:\n\n\nGenetic reality provides constraints on the power of random mutation followed by natural selection.\n\nWith pleiotropy, some genes control multiple traits, so that adaptation of one trait is impeded by effects on other traits that are not necessarily adaptive. Selection that influences epistasis is a case where the regulation or expression of one gene, depends on one or several others. This is true for a good number of genes though to differing extents. The reason why this leads to muddied responses is that selection for a trait that is epistatically based can mean that an allele for a gene that is epistatic when selected would happen to affect others. This leads to the coregulation of others for a reason other than there is an adaptive quality to each of those traits. Like with pleiotropy, traits could reach fixation in a population as a by-product of selection for another.\n\nIn the context of development the difference between pleiotropy and epistasis is not so clear but at the genetic level the distinction is more clear. With these traits as being by-products of others it can ultimately be said that these traits evolved but not that they necessarily represent adaptations.\n\nPolygenic traits are controlled by a number of separate genes. Many traits are polygenic, for example human height. To drastically change a polygenic trait is likely to require multiple changes.\n\nAnatomical constraints are features of organism's anatomy that are prevented from change by being constrained in some way. When organisms diverge from a common ancestor and inherit certain characteristics which become modified by natural selection of mutant phenotypes, it is as if some are traits are locked in place and are unable to change in certain ways. Some textbook anatomical constraints often include examples of structures that connect parts of the body together though a physical link.\n\nThese links are hard if not impossible to break because evolution usually requires that anatomy be formed by small consecutive modifications in populations through generations. In his book, \"Why We Get Sick\", Randolph Nesse uses the \"blind spot\" in the vertebrate eye (caused by the nerve fibers running through the retina) as an example of this. He argues that natural selection has come up with an elaborate work-around of the eyes wobbling back-and-forth to correct for this, but vertebrates have not found the solution embodied in cephalopod eyes, where the optic nerve does not interrupt the view. See also: Evolution of the eye.\n\nAnother example is the cranial nerves in tetrapods. In early vertebrate evolution, sharks, skates, and rays (collectively Chondrichthyes), the cranial nerves run from the part of the brain that interprets sensory information, and radiate out towards the organs that produce those sensations. In tetrapods, however, and mammals in particular, the nerves take an elaborate winding path through the cranium around structures that evolved after the common ancestor with sharks.\n\nAdaptationism is sometimes characterized by critics as an unsubstantiated assumption that all or most traits are optimal adaptations. Structuralist critics (most notably Richard Lewontin and Stephen Jay Gould in their spandrel paper) contend that the adaptationists have over-emphasized the power of natural selection to shape individual traits to an evolutionary optimum. Adaptationists are sometimes accused by their critics of using \"ad hoc\" \"just-so stories\". The critics, in turn, have been accused of misrepresentation (Straw man argumentation), rather than attacking the actual statements of supposed adaptationists.\n\nAdaptationist researchers respond by asserting that they, too, follow George Williams' depiction of adaptation as an \"onerous concept\" that should only be applied in light of strong evidence. This evidence can be generally characterized as the successful prediction of novel phenomena based on the hypothesis that design details of adaptations should fit a complex evolved design to respond to a specific set of selection pressures. In evolutionary psychology, researchers such as Leda Cosmides, John Tooby, and David Buss contend that the bulk of research findings that were uniquely predicted through adaptationist hypothesizing comprise evidence of the methods' validity.\n\nThere are philosophical issues with the way biologists speak of function, effectively invoking teleology, the purpose of an adaptation.\n\nTo say something has a function is to say something about what it does for the organism. It also says something about its history: how it has come about. A heart pumps blood: that is its function. It also emits sound, which is considered to be an ancillary side-effect, not its function. The heart has a history (which may be well or poorly understood), and that history is about how natural selection formed and maintained the heart as a pump. Every aspect of an organism that has a function has a history. Now, an adaptation must have a functional history: therefore we expect it must have undergone selection caused by relative survival in its habitat. It would be quite wrong to use the word adaptation about a trait which arose as a by-product.\n\nIt is widely regarded as unprofessional for a biologist to say something like \"A wing is for flying,\" although that is their normal function. A biologist would be conscious that sometime in the remote past feathers on a small dinosaur had the function of retaining heat, and that later many wings were not used for flying (e.g. penguins, ostriches). So, the biologist would rather say that the wings on a bird or an insect usually had the function of aiding flight. That would carry the connotation of being an adaptation with a history of evolution by natural selection.\n\nTeleology was introduced into biology by Aristotle to describe the adaptedness of organisms. Biologists have found the implications of purposefulness awkward as they suggest supernatural intention, an aspect of Plato's thinking which Aristotle rejected. A similar term, teleonomy, was suggested by Colin Pittendrigh in 1958; it grew out of cybernetics and self-organising systems. Biologists of the 1960s such as Ernst Mayr, George C. Williams and Jacques Monod used it as a less loaded alternative. However, the discomfort remains. On the one hand, adaptation is obviously purposeful: natural selection chooses what works and eliminates what does not. On the other hand, biologists want to deny conscious purpose in evolution. The dilemma gave rise to a famous joke by the evolutionary biologist Haldane: \"Teleology is like a mistress to a biologist: he cannot live without her but he's unwilling to be seen with her in public.'\" David Hull commented that Haldane's mistress \"has become a lawfully wedded wife. Biologists no longer feel obligated to apologize for their use of teleological language; they flaunt it. The only concession which they make to its disreputable past is to rename it 'teleonomy'.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29340929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29340929", "title": "Alan Mittleman", "text": "Alan Mittleman\n\nAlan Mittleman (born 1953) is a professor of Jewish philosophy at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America.\n\nMittleman received his BA from Brandeis University and his MA and PhD from Temple University.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1988, Mittleman served on the staff of the American Jewish Committee. He helped to draft a resolution by the United Church of Christ which made it the first Protestant denomination in the United States to declare that Christianity did not supersede Judaism.\n\nMittleman went on to serve as a professor of Religion at Muhlenberg College from 1988 to 2004. He was the head of the Muhlenberg College Religion Department from 1997-2003.\n\nFrom 2000 until 2004, he was also the director of a major research project on \"Jews and the American Public Square\" initiated by the Pew Charitable Trusts.\n\nIn 2004, Mittleman became Professor of Jewish Philosophy at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTS). In 2007, he served as Visiting Professor of Religion at Princeton University, and in that same year he became Chair of the Department of Jewish Thought at JTS.\n\nUpon joining the Jewish Theological Seminary faculty, he also became director of the JTS's Louis Finkelstein Institute for Religious and Social Studies, a position he held until 2010.\n\nIn 2010, he became director of the Tikvah Institute for Jewish Thought at the Jewish Theological Seminary.\n\nMittleman has described himself as being a \"rationalist\" in his religious beliefs. He may be placed within the Jewish rationalist tradition of Jewish philosophy.\n\nHe thinks that \"pure secularism may be incoherent\" but that \"robust religious hope needs the secularist critique.\"\n\nProfessor Mittleman is married to Patti Mittleman, the retired Director of Muhlenberg College Hillel. They reside in Pennsylvania and have two sons.\n\nMittleman's books include:\n\n\nHe is the editor of:\n\n\nHis writings have appeared in journals including \"Harvard Theological Review\", \"Modern Judaism\", the \"Jewish Political Studies Review\", the \"Journal of Religion\", and \"First Things\".\n"}
{"id": "7829592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7829592", "title": "Arthur Fine", "text": "Arthur Fine\n\nArthur Fine (born 1937) is an American philosopher of science teaching at the University of Washington (UW). \n\nFine earned his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1963.\n\nBefore moving to UW, Fine taught for many years at Northwestern University and, before that, at Cornell University and the University of Illinois at Chicago. He is a past president of the American Philosophical Association and the Philosophy of Science Association and has for many years been on the editorial board of the journal \"Philosophy of Science\", one of the leading publications in the field. \n\nFine famously proposed the natural ontological attitude (NOA) as a resolution to the debates over scientific realism. This philosophy takes on a neutral stance of realist and antirealist attitudes of acceptance in the industry's best theories, and calls out mistakes across existing theories.\n\nFine also developed one of the possible interpretations of quantum mechanics yet to be decided between and has contributed to the probabilistic understanding of Bell's theorem. \n\nIn 2001, Fine gave the following re-counting of the birth of NOA and its important relationship to Bas van Fraassen's antirealism:\n\"The Scientific Image\" arrived in 1980 like a breath of fresh air. Although in the introduction van Fraassen counts me among the realist foot soldiers, at just that time Micky Forbes and I were engaged in rethinking the whole realism/antirealism issue. The result was NOA. Van Fraassen’s powerful and enlightening monograph encouraged us in that project. If Micky and I are parents of NOA, then Bas is perhaps a godfather. Paul Teller too, since he was among the people then who helped us refine our ideas as they developed.\n\nIn 2014, Fine was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. Additionally, he was recognized for his knowledge of Albert Einstein's theories as a guest lecturer Ohio University's 2014 Frontiers in Science Lecture Series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3038770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3038770", "title": "Burgundio of Pisa", "text": "Burgundio of Pisa\n\nBurgundio of Pisa, sometimes erroneously styled \"Burgundius\", was an Italian jurist of the 12th century. He was an ambassador for Pisa at Constantinople in 1136. He was a professor in Paris, and assisted at the Lateran Council in 1179, dying at a very advanced age in 1193.\n\nHe was a distinguished Greek scholar, and is believed on the authority of Odofredus to have translated into Latin, soon after the \"Pandects\" were brought to Bologna, the various Greek fragments which occur in them, with the exception of those in the 27th book, the translation of which has been attributed to Modestinus. The Latin translations ascribed to Burgundio were received at Bologna as an integral part of the text of the \"Pandects\", and form part of that known as The Vulgate in distinction from the Florentine text.\n\nIn addition, he translated from Greek into Latin \"Exposition of the Orthodox Faith\" by John of Damascus; \"On human nature\" by Nemesius of Emesa;\nGalen's \"On complexions\"; Books 6-8 (on winemaking) of the \"Geoponica\"; and homilies on Matthew and John by John Chrysostom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6134604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6134604", "title": "Catholic peace traditions", "text": "Catholic peace traditions\n\nCatholic peace traditions begin with its biblical and classical origins to the current practice in the 21st century. Because of its long history and breadth of geographical and cultural diversity, this Catholic tradition encompasses many strains and influences of both religious and secular peacemaking and many aspects of Christian pacifism, just war and nonviolence.\n\nCatholic tradition as a whole supports and favors peacemaking efforts. Peacemaking is an integral part of Catholic Social Teaching.\n\nThe history of peacemaking in the Catholic tradition reflects the religious meanings of peace, tied to positive virtues, such as love, and to the personal and social works of justice. The Greek word for peace is \"eirene\"; Roman \"pax\", and in the Hebrew Bible, \"shalom\".\n\nFor the earliest Romans, \"pax\" meant to live in a state of agreement, where discord and war were absent. In his \"Meditations\", or \"To Himself,\" the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius expresses peace as a state of unperturbed tranquility. The English word \"peace\" derives ultimately from its root, the Latin \"pax\".\n\nShalom () is the word for peace in the Hebrew Bible (\"Tanakh\" or ), and has other meanings also pertaining to well being, including use as a greeting.\n\nThe Greek meaning for peace, contained in the word \"eirene\", evolved over the course of Greco-Roman civilization from such agricultural meanings as prosperity, fertility, and security of home contained in Hesiod’s \"Works and Days\", to more internal meanings of peace formulated by the Stoics, such as Epictetus.\n\n\"Eirene\" is the word that the New Testament generally uses for peace, one of the twenty words used by the Septuagint, the Greek version of the Hebrew Bible used in the largely Greek-speaking Jewish communities throughout the Greco-Roman world. It is chiefly through the Septuagint’s use of Greek that the Greek word \"eirene\" became infused with all the religious imagery and richness of the word \"shalom\" in the Hebrew Bible that had evolved over the history of the Jewish people. Subsequently, the use of the Greek Bible as the basis for St. Jerome’s Vulgate translation into Latin then brought all the new meanings of \"eirene\" to the Latin word \"pax\" and transformed it from a term for an imposed order of the sword, the \"Pax Romana\", into the chief image of peace for Western Christianity.\n\nThe Gospels present the birth of Jesus as ushering in a new age of peace. In Luke, Zechariah celebrates his son John:\nAnd you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give his people knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God by which the daybreak from on high will visit us to shine on those who sit in darkness and death's shadow, to guide our feet into the path of peace.\n\nAnd later, the angels appear to the shepherds at Bethlehem, \"And suddenly there was a multitude of the heavenly host with the angel, praising God and saying: 'Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace to those on whom his favor rests'\" – a peace distinct from the Pax Romana.\nThe Sermon on the Mount (Mt. 5:1-16) and the Sermon on the Plain (Lk. 6:20-45) combine with the call to \"love your enemies\" (Mt. 5:38-48) to encapsulate Jesus' teachings on peacemaking. According to Gabriel Moran, the Sermon on the Mount does not advocate submission to oppressors, but rather a strategy to \"de-hostilize enemies in order to win them over\".\n\nThe account of the healing of the centurion's servant suggests to John Eppstein that Jesus did not view military service as sinful, since rather than reprove the soldier for his profession, Jesus praised him for his faith. Nor did Peter require Cornelius to resign his commission or desert upon being baptized. John the Baptist's advice to soldiers was, \"Do not practice extortion, do not falsely accuse anyone, and be satisfied with your wages.\" \n\nEarly Christianity was relatively pacifist. Clement of Alexandria wrote, \"“If you enroll as one of God’s people, heaven is your country and God your lawgiver. And what are his laws? You shall not kill, You shall love your neighbor as yourself. To him that strikes you on the one cheek, turn to him the other also.” (Protrepticus 10)\nThe early Christians anticipated the eminent return of the Lord in glory, even to the extant that Paul had to tell some of them to get back to work. Generally they were not deeply involved in the larger community. As it became apparent that a more nuanced understanding was called for, Christians came to realize that if they were to survive socially they could not remain within the confines of their own community.\n\nSt. Paul wrote, \"Let every person be subordinate to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been established by God. ...This is why you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, devoting themselves to this very thing. Pay to all their dues, taxes to whom taxes are due, toll to whom toll is due, respect to whom respect is due, honor to whom honor is due.\"\n\nThe early Christian church believed that Christians should not take up arms in any war, and so struggled attempting to balance the obligation to be a good citizen and the question of whether it was permissible to take up arms to defend one's country. There developed a gap between the reasoning of the moral theorists and the practice of the private citizen.\n\nAs early as second century, Christians began to participate in Roman military, police, and government in large numbers. Military service was one way available to make a living, and on the borders of the empire there was a need to defend against barbarian incursions. As the army came to take on duties more in the line of police work: traffic and customs control, firefighting, the apprehension of criminals and bandits, maintaining the peace, quelling street brawls, and performing the roles of engineering, clearance, and other works of building for which the Roman army was well known, this choice became less problematic. The numbers of soldiers that came to be counted among the later martyrs indicates that many Christians served in the military, despite their abhorrence of war.\n\nFrom about the middle of the second century, officers in the Roman army were expected to participate in the Imperial Cult and sacrifice to the emperor. During the reign of Diocletian this obligation was extended to the lower ranks, as a test for those suspected of being Christian. Christians were therefore counseled not to enlist so as to avoid needless blood guilt and the risk of idolatry, but should nonetheless continue to pray for the civil authorities.\nAmong the better-known soldier saints are Saint Marinus, Marcellus of Tangier, and Maximilian of Tebessa, and Martin of Tours.\n\nPersecutions were sporadic and the third century, largely local. By and large the Roman government didn’t pay much attention to Christianity.\n\nChristians sought to live the injunction to love their enemies while resisting their evil, even if this involved persecution and death: these were the martyrs. The word \"“martyr”\" is the Greek for “witness.” The early martyrs followed a long-standing tradition; John the Baptist was beheaded for \"speaking truth to power\". They also had as examples St. Stephen, the apostles James, Philip, and Matthew, and others.\n\nThe sufferings of the martyrs were therefore not an act of suicide or some masochistic form of passive weakness that found its fulfillment in torture and death at the hands of the Romans. Theirs was an act of commitment carried out in the public arena, designed to show the enemy that what is worth living for is also worth dying for. According to Josephine Laffin, martyrdom demonstrated to all that Christ had overcome death, and that the Holy Spirit sustained the Church in its fight against darkness and evil.\n\nThe Martyrs of Córdoba were forty-eight Christian martyrs living in the 9th century Muslim-ruled Al-Andalus. Their hagiography describes in detail their executions for deliberately sought capital violations of Muslim law in Al-Andalus. The martyrdoms recorded by Eulogius took place between 851 and 859; with few exceptions, the Christians invited execution by making public statements tactically chosen to invite martyrdom by appearing before the Muslim authorities to denounce Islam. The martyrs caused tension not only between Muslims and Christians, but within the Christian community. In December 852 Church leaders called a council in Cordoba, which honored those fallen but called on Christians to refrain from seeking martyrdom.\n\nRecent historical interpretation of the martyr movement reflect questions on its nature. Kenneth Baxter Wolf sees its cause in “spiritual anxiety” and the penitential aspect of 9th century Iberian Christianity. Clayton J. Drees sees their motives in a “pathological death-wish, the product of unexpressed hatred toward society that had turned inward against themselves” and other innate “psychological imbalances.” Jessica A. Coope suggests that it reflects a protest against the process of assimilation, and that the martyrs demonstrated a determination to assert Christian identity.\n\nWith the triumph of Constantine as sole Roman emperor in 313, the church of the martyrs now found itself an accepted and favored religion, soon to become the official religion of the state. Constantine had an emblem inscribed on the shields of his soldiers that has been various described as representing the \"Unconquerable Sun\" or as a Chi-Rho. Eileen Egan quotes Burkhardt's observation that this was \"an emblem which every man could interpret as he pleased, but which the Christians would refer to themselves.\"\n\nAs the religion of the empire, its survival was tied to the fate of the Empire. The threat of increased barbarian incursions therefore threatened both, and defense of the Empire was appropriate in order to protect Christianity. The early trend toward pacifism became muted.\n\nAmbrose of Milan, former Pretorian Prefect of northern Italy before being elected bishop of Milan, preserved the Christian presumption against the use of violence, unless it was needed to protect important social values. While rejecting resorting to violence in self-defense, he argued that charity demanded one protect one’s neighbour. \"He who does not ward off injury from his comrade, when he is able to, is just as guilty as he who does the injury.\"\n\nWhen the Empress Justina sought to have the new basilica in Milan turned over to the Arians, Ambrose, supported by the faithful, occupied it himself in what Egan identifies as an example of non-violent resistance.\n\nFollowing Ambrose, Augustine thought that the Christian, in imitation of Jesus, should not use violence to defend himself, but however, had an obligation to aid a victim under attack.\n\nAugustine of Hippo agreed strongly with the conventional wisdom of his time, that Christians should be pacifists philosophically, but that they should use defense as a means of preserving peace in the long run. He routinely argued that pacifism did not prevent the defence of innocents. In essence, the pursuit of peace might require fighting to preserve it in the long-term. Such a war must not be preemptive, but defensive, to restore peace.\n\nAugustine drew on Roman tradition to view a \"just war\" as one prosecuted under lawful authority for a just cause, i.e., repelling aggression or injury, retaking something wrongly seized, or to punish wrongdoing. Later other theorists expanded on this. War must be the last resort, have a reasonable chance of success, and produce more good than harm. The church also argued that non-combatants must be protected.\n\nAugustine drew no distinction between offensive and defensive wars, since remedying injuries was a just cause apart from defence. Against the threat of chaos and breakdown of civil order, a man may wage war justly but lament his unavoidable duty.\n\nDuring Augustine's last days Vandals invaded North Africa. Barbarian incursions which later swept Europe in succeeding centuries resulted in a collapse of learning and culture, and population decline. There is a long historical tradition that has collected ample evidence to show that the Roman Empire itself was undergoing profound social, economic, and spiritual changes that were only hastened by the invasions. As the Western Empire crumbled the Church became the stabilizing force for order and peace.\n\nThe Christian peacemakers of this period were not the dominant cultural or political force of their time, but were either marginalized minorities — as in the case of the Roman Empire or — as in the case of the missionaries who evangelized the barbarians — were actually reaching out from an oppressive and collapsing world to an anarchic one that offered the seeds of a new society. Among the more important figures of active peacemaking or of intellectual life worth further study were Martin of Tours, Salvian of Marseilles, Nicetas of Remesiana, Germanus of Auxerre, Severinus of Noricum, St. Patrick, St. Genevieve of Paris, Columban, and St. Boniface of Crediton.\n\nIt is no coincidence that the appearance of the first monks comes within a few years of Constantine’s assumption of power and the alliance of church and empire that he forged. Thomas Merton identified one of the reasons individuals sought out the desert. was that they \"declined to be ruled by men, but had no desire to rule over others themselves'. Others sought to imitate Jesus' own time spent in the desert.\n\nMonasticism was, in a sense, a continuation of martyrdom, reaffirming the contradiction between the Church and the world, by fleeing from the corruption of civilization in order to seek a greater treasure.\n\nChristian monasticism started in Egypt, then spread to Palestine, Syria, Mesopotamia, and finally to Italy and southern Gaul. Anthony the Hermit (c.251-356), the founder of monasticism, and Pachomius (c.290-346) were the prototypes.\n\nThe penitentials, written by Irish monks, were a series of manuals designed for priests who heard confessions that specified certain penances for certain categories of sins. These “penitentials” borrowed inspiration and specific regulations from the early church councils, monastic rules, and the letters of popes and bishops. Many of the regulations at first paralleled those aimed at insuring the special status of the clergy, including its nonviolence, but were gradually extended to the lay population. Penances ranged from fasting on bread and water for week, paying compensation to victims in money, goods or property, exile, pilgrimage, and excommunication. Readmission to Christian community was possible only after the completion of the prescribed penance.\n\nThese manuals proved to be such a concise and effective method for conceptualizing and standardizing notions of sin and repentance that they spread from Ireland to the Continent in a wide variety of collections that became enshrined in official collections of church law by the twelfth century. The penitentials are of great value for studying early medieval notions of violence, its seriousness and its consequences in a variety of actions, circumstances, and classes of victims.\n\nThe texts assign penances for killing in wartime, even under the lawful command of legitimate authority. Penances lasting from forty days to a year for killing someone in battle, were not uncommon. Following Augustine, war was seen as inherently sinful, and at best the lesser of two evils.\n\nThe Carolingian period saw the emergence of both a renewed Roman Empire of the West and the beginning of fresh barbarian invasions from the north and east and the rise of Islam. Internal efforts to legislate the life of the Christian Republic were therefore matched by its external defense against invasions by the Vikings, Magyars, and Saracens. The problems and conditions were in many ways similar to those of Christian thinkers under the late Roman Empire when the state was identified with Christian society. The Carolingian Empire thus brought a renewed militarization of society that sought to protect Christendom from external threat, while it used the hierarchical bonds of feudal oaths and vassalage to bring the new class of mobile horse warriors, the \"milities\", to some semblance of central authority. War took on a religious dimension as evidenced by liturgical formulae for the blessings of armies and weapons.\n\nThe close identification of the Carolingian Empire with the extent of Western Christianity revived the late Roman associations of \"Christianitas\" (Christendom) with the \"orbis Romanus\" or \"oikoumene\" (the Roman world). On the most official levels Christian peace necessitated its defense against the attacks of external enemies.\n\nChristian peace involved the monastic or ascetic peace of a pure heart and life devoted to prayer; the episcopal peace, or pax ecclesiae, of a properly functioning free and unified church; and the social or imperial peace of the world. These often overlapped.\n\nCarolingian theory established two, separate, ecclesiastical and secular spheres of authority within Christian society, one to lead the body and one the spirit. Monastic life was supported, and encouraged; while late Roman prohibitions against clerical participation in the army were repeated again and again. Among the thinkers and writers on issues of peace and peacemaking were Alcuin of York, Smaragdus of Saint-Mihiel, Paschasius Radbertus, and Hincmar of Rheims. In keeping with their time, these offered various interpretations of peace as an inner tranquillity, legal guidelines to war and the curbing of military violence, or the image of peace as an ideal Christian state.\n\nThe Cáin Adomnáin (Law of Adomnán), also known as the \"Lex Innocentium\" (Law of Innocents) was promulgated amongst a gathering of Irish, Dál Riatan and Pictish notables at the Synod of Birr in 697. It is named after its initiator Adomnán of Iona, ninth Abbot of Iona after St. Columba. As a successor of Columba of Iona, Adomnán had sufficient prestige to assemble a conference of ninety-one chieftains and clerics from Ireland, Dál Riata, and Pictland at Birr to promulgate the new law. As well as being the site of a significant monastery, associated with Saint Brendan of Birr, Birr was close to the boundary between the Uí Néill-dominated northern half of Ireland, and the southern half, where the kings of Munster ruled. It therefore represented a neutral ground where the rival kings and clerics of north and south Ireland could meet.\n\nThis set of laws were designed, among other things, to guarantee the safety and immunity of various types of non-combatants in warfare. The laws provided sanctions against the killing of children, clerics, clerical students and peasants on clerical lands; against rape, against impugning the chastity of a noblewoman, and prohibited women from having to take part in warfare. Various factors, including Marian devotion in seventh- and eighth-century Ireland, may have contributed to inspire Adomnán to introduce these laws. Many of these things were already crimes, under the Irish Brehon Laws. The law described both the secular fines which criminals must pay, and the ritual curses to which law-breakers were subject.\n\nThe indigenous Brehon Laws were committed to parchment about the 7th century, most likely by clerics. Most scholars now believe that the secular laws were not compiled independently of monasteries. Adomnan would have had access to the best legal minds of his generation. Adomnan's \"Cain\" combined aspects of the traditional Brehon laws with an ecclesiastical approach. Following Ambrose and Augustine, bystanders who did nothing to prevent a crime were as liable as the perpetrator. \"Stewards of the Law\" collected the fine and paid it to the victim or next of kin.\n\nAdomnán's initiative appears to be one of the first systematic attempts to lessen the savagery of warfare among Christians. In it he gave local expression, in the context of the Gaelic legal tradition, to a wider Christian movement to restrain violence.\n\nAs Carolingian authority began to erode, especially on the outskirts of power, as in southern Gaul, the episcopate took steps to protect their congregations and their holdings against the encroachments of local nobles. The Peace of God originated in the conciliar assemblies of the late Carolingian period. It began in Aquitaine, Burgundy and Languedoc, areas where central authority had most completely fragmented.\n\nA limited \"Pax Dei\" was decreed at the Synod of Charroux in 989 and spread to most of Western Europe over the next century, surviving in some form until at least the thirteenth century.\n\nA great crowd of many people (\"populus\") gathered from the Poitou, the Limousin, and neighboring regions. Relics of saints were displayed and venerated. The participation of large, enthusiastic crowds marks it as one of the first popular religious movements of the Middle Ages. In the early phase, the blend of relics and crowds, and enthusiasm stamped the movement with an exceptionally popular character.\n\nThe \"Peace of God\" or \"Pax Dei\" was a proclamation issued by local clergy that decreed immunity from armed violence to noncombatants who could not defend themselves, beginning with the peasants (\"agricolae\") and the clergy. It included the clergy and their possessions; the poor; women; peasants along with their tools, animals, mills, vineyards, and labor; and later pilgrims and merchants: in short, the vast majority of the medieval population who neither bore arms, nor were entitled to bear them. Children and women were added to the early protections. Merchants and their goods were added to the protected groups in a synod of 1033.\n\nThe \"Pax Dei\" prohibited nobles from invading churches, beating the defenseless, and burning houses. Excommunication would be the punishment for attacking or robbing a church, for robbing peasants or the poor of farm animals and for robbing, striking or seizing a priest or any man of the clergy \"who is not bearing arms\". Making compensation or reparations could circumvent the anathema of the Church.\n\nAfter a lull in the first two decades of the eleventh century, the movement spread to the north with the support of king Robert, the Capetian. There, the high nobility sponsored Peace assemblies throughout Flanders, Burgundy, Champagne, Normandy, Amienois, and Berry. By 1041 the Peace had spread throughout France and had reached Flanders and Italy. From c.1018 the Peace was extended to Catalonia and reached Barcelona, Girona, and Urgel. Assemblies were repeated all over western Europe into the 1060s.\n\nThe Truce of God or \"Treuga Dei\" had its origin in Normandy in the city of Caen. It dates from the eleventh century.\n\nWhile the Truce of God was a temporary suspension of hostilities, as distinct from the Peace of God which was permanent, the jurisdiction of the Truce of God was broader. The Peace of God prohibited fighting on Sundays, and ferial days (feast days on which people were not obliged to work). It was the sanctification of Sunday which gave rise to the Truce of God, for it had always been agreed not to do battle on that day and to suspend disputes in the law-courts.\n\nIt confirmed permanent peace for all churches and their grounds, the monks, clerks and chattels; all women, pilgrims, merchants and their servants, cattle and horses; and men at work in the fields. For all others peace was required throughout Advent, the season of Lent, and from the beginning of the Rogation days until eight days after Pentecost. This prohibition was subsequently extended to specific days of the week, viz., Thursday, in memory of the Ascension, Friday, the day of the Passion, and Saturday, the day of the Resurrection (council 1041). By the middle of the twelfth century the number of proscribed days was extended until there was left some eighty days for fighting.\n\nThe Truce soon spread from France to Italy and Germany; the oecumenical council of 1179 extended the institution to the whole Church by Canon xxi, \"De treugis servandis\", which was inserted in the collection of canon law, Decretal of Gregory IX, I, tit., \"De treuga et pace\". Aquinas challenged the Truce, holding that it was lawful to wage war to safeguard the commonweal on holy days and feast days.\n\nIn his \"Summa Theologica\", Thomas Aquinas expands Augustine's arguments to define the conditions under which a war could be just:\n\nReligious thinkers and secular writers attempted to incorporate the controls of the Peace and Truce of God into the existing warrior ethic by “Christianizing” it into the Crusades and the cult of chivalry. Beginning in the 11th century, knighthood developed a religious character. Prospective knights underwent rigorous religious rituals in order to be initiated. An initiate had to fast, confess his sins, was given a symbolic bath, had his hair cut to represent humility, and he spent a night praying, his weapons upon an altar representing the dedication of his weapons to the Church and God. Advancements in metallurgy allowed inscriptions and pictures of holy symbols to be engraved on helmets, swords, shields, and other equipment. The symbols allowed for a physical reminder to knights and military men that God was supporting their efforts, providing protection to those soldiers as well as the assurance of a victory over their enemies.\n\nLouis IX of France is equally famous for his failed crusades and for the settlement of disputes and the maintenance of peace within Christian lands. He issued the first extant ordinance indefinitely prohibiting warfare in France, a text dating from January 1258 that outlawed guerrae omnes as well as arson, and disturbances to carts and to agricolae who work with carts or plows. Those who transgressed this prohibition were to be punished as peace-breakers (fractores pacis) by the king's officer and the bishop-elect of le Puy-en-Velay. Louis IX promulgated this text as a simple royal act on the basis of his authority as king.\n\nChristian missionary work was presented as a viable alternative to the violence of the crusaders. Majorcan Franciscan Blessed Ramon Llull (1232-1315) argued that the conversion of Muslims should be achieved through prayer, not through military force, and pressed for the study of Arabic to prepare potential missionaries. He traveled through Europe to meet with popes, kings, and princes, trying to establish special colleges to prepare them.\n\nErasmus laid a foundation for religious toleration. In \"De libero arbitrio\", he noted that religious disputants should be temperate in their language, \"because in this way the truth, which is often lost amidst too much wrangling may be more surely perceived.\" Gary Remer writes, \"Like Cicero, Erasmus concludes that truth is furthered by a more harmonious relationship between interlocutors.\" Although Erasmus did not oppose the punishment of heretics, in individual cases he generally argued for moderation and against the death penalty. He wrote, \"It is better to cure a sick man than to kill him.\" \n\nFrancisco de Vitoria was a Spanish Dominican philosopher, considered one of the founders of early international law. He was educated at the College Saint-Jacques in Paris, where he was influenced by the work of Desidarius Erasmus. In 1524, he held the Chair of theology at the University of Salamanca, where a number of missionaries returning from the New World expressed concern regarding treatment of the indigenous inhabitants. In three lectures held between 1537 and 1539 Vitoria concluded that the Indians were rightful owners of their property and that their chiefs validly exercised jurisdiction over their tribes. A supporter of the just war theory, in \"De iure belli\" Fransico pointed out that the underlying predicate conditions for a \"just war\" were \"wholly lacking in the Indies\". Vitoria adopted from Aquinas the Roman law concept of \"ius gentium\" (\"the law of nations\"). His defense of American Indians was based on a Scholastic understanding of the intrinsic dignity of man, a dignity he found being violated by Spain's policies in the New World.\n\nDominican friar Pedro de Córdoba OP (c.1460–1525) was a Spanish missionary on the island of Hispaniola. He was first to denounce the system of forced labor known as the Encomienda, imposed on the native inhabitants.\n\nOther important figures include Bartolomé de Las Casas and Peter of Saint Joseph Betancur\n\nÉmeric Crucé was a French monk who took the position that wars were the result of international misunderstandings and the domination of society by the warrior class, both of which could be reduced through commerce, as that brought people together. The genesis of the idea of a meeting of representatives of different nations to obtain by peaceful arbitration a settlement of differences has been traced to Crucé's 1623 work entitled \"The New Cyneas\", a discourse showing the opportunities and the means for establishing a general peace and liberty of conscience to all the world, addressed to the monarch and the sovereign princes of the time. He proposed that a city, preferably Venice, should be selected where all the Powers had ambassadors including all peoples.\n\nFrom 1871 to 1878, Chancellor Bismarck, who controlled both the German Empire and the Kingdom of Prussia, launched the \"Kulturkampf\" in Prussia to reduce the power of the Catholic Church in public affairs, and keep Polish Catholics under control. Thousands of priests and bishops were harassed or imprisoned, with large fines and closures of Catholic churches and schools. German was declared to be the only official language, but in practice the Poles only adhered more closely to their traditions. Catholics were angry at his systematic attacks. Unanimous in their resistance, they organized themselves to fight back politically, using their strength in other states such as Catholic Bavaria. There was little or no violence, and the new Roman Catholic Center Party won a quarter of the seats in the \"Reichstag\" (Imperial Parliament), and its middle position on most issues allowed it to play a decisive role in the formation of majorities. The culture war gave secularists and socialists an opportunity to attack all religions, an outcome that distressed the Protestants, including Bismarck. After the death of Pope Pius IX in 1878 Bismarck opened negotiations with Pope Leo XIII, which led to his gradual abandonment of the Kulturkampf in the early 1880s.\n\nThe first Caritas organisation was established by Lorenz Worthmann 9 November 1897 in Germany. Other national Caritas organisations were soon formed in Switzerland (1901) and the United States (Catholic Charities, 1910). It has since grown into \"Caritas Internationalis\", a confederation of 165 Roman Catholic relief, development and social service organizations operating in over 200 countries and territories worldwide.\n\nCaritas Australia is involved in peacebuilding and reconciliation programs in Sri Lanka, The Philippines, Papua New Guinea and elsewhere, including Movimento de Defesa do Fevelado (MDF) which trains youth to be peacebuilders in São Paulo, Brazil in response to an increasing number of children becoming involved in drugs, organised crime and murders. It is hoped these trainees will become the next generation of leaders in their communities.\n\nIn an effort to overcome many prejudices and fears between different nationalities, ethnic and religious groups. The Salzburg branch of Caritas Osterreich sponsors a Peace Camp for unprivileged children of different religious denominations from all over the Middle East. The camp takes place in a different country in the region each year. Since 1999 almost 900 children and youths from nine different countries and eighteen different religious denominations have participated in the program.\n\nBishop Konrad von Preysing was one of the most firm and consistent of senior Catholics to oppose the Nazis. He and Bishop Clemens August Graf von Galen, along with Cardinal Secretary of State Eugenio Pacelli, were part of a committee that drafted the 1937 encyclical \"Mit brennender Sorge\" which warned Catholics that the growing Nazi ideology, which exalted one race over all others, was incompatible with Catholic Christianity.\n\nAustrian Bishop Gfoellner of Linz had the encyclical read from the pulpits of his diocese. Bishop Gfoellner indicated that the dangers of German Catholics were also the dangers of Austrian Catholics: \"What I wrote in my pastoral of January 21, 1933. 'It is impossible to be at once a good Catholic and a good National-Socialist,' is confirmed today.\" The release of \"Mit brennender Sorge\" precipitated an intensification of the Nazi persecution of the Catholic Church in Germany. With the death of Cathedral Provost Bernhard Lichtenberg while en route to Dachau, Margarete Sommer took over supervising the work of Preysing's Welfare Office. Sommer coordinated Catholic aid for victims of racial persecution – giving spiritual comfort, food, clothing, and money. She gathered intelligence on the deportations of the Jews, and living conditions in concentration camps, as well as on SS firing squads, writing several reports on these topics from 1942.\n\nBelgian Cardinal Jozef-Ernest van Roey was deeply opposed to Nazi Germany, and once said, \"With Germany we step many degrees downward and reach the lowest possible depths. We have a duty of conscience to combat and to strive for the defeat of these dangers...Reason and good sense both direct us towards confidence, towards resistance\". Cardinal van Roey intervened with the authorities to rescue Jews from the Nazis, and encouraged various institutions to aid Jewish children. One of his acts of rescue was to open a geriatric centre in which Jews were housed, at which kosher Jewish cooks would be required who could therefore be given special passes protecting them from deportation. Papal Nuncio Angelo Roncalli used diplomatic couriers, papal representatives and the Sisters of Our Lady of Zion to transport and issue baptismal certificates, immigration certificates and visas – many of them forged – to Hungarian Jews.\n\nPallottine priest Franz Reinisch was beheaded SAC for refusing to take the oath of allegiance to Hitler. When his offer to serve as a medic was denied, Franciscan tertiary Franz Jaegerstatter was executed as a conscientious objector. Both encountered clergy who thought that they failed in their duty to their country.\n\nPope John XXIII (1958–63) set off a revolution in Roman Catholic thought and life that harkened back to an earlier period for its models and inspiration and brought the church into a new age. Through his policy of \"aggiornamento\" the pope opened the church to the modern world. Russell Hittinger describes the encyclical \"Pacem in Terris\" \"as a kind of magna charta of the Catholic Church’s position on human rights and natural law\". John's successors Paul VI and John Paul II furthered this agenda while maintaining traditional church teachings in many areas of individual and social morality.\n\nIn the 1980s the Polish Solidarity movement grew out of labor strikes in the shipyard at Gdańsk. It was the first non-Communist Party-controlled trade union in a Warsaw Pact country, and became a broad social movement, using civil resistance to advance the causes of workers' rights and social change.\n\nBritish historian Timothy Garton Ash, observed shortly after Pope John Paul II's death, \" ...without the Polish Pope, no Solidarity revolution in Poland in 1980; without Solidarity, no dramatic change in Soviet policy towards eastern Europe under Gorbachev; without that change, no velvet revolutions in 1989.\n\nUnder the guidance of Archbishop Hélder Câmara, the Catholic church in Brazil became an outspoken critic of the 1964-85 military dictatorship and a powerful movement for social change.\n\nLéonie Duquet and Alice Domon were French religious sisters abducted in December 1977 by an Argentine death squad for their support of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo in their efforts to learn the fate of those disappeared by the then ruling military regime. Later that month a number of bodies washed ashore south of Buenos Aires and were subsequently secretly buried. Duquet was among those later disinterred and identified.\n\nIn El Salvador, Father Rutilio Grande spoke against the injustices at the hands of an oppressive government, and dedicated his life’s work to organizing the impoverished, marginalized rural farmers of El Salvador as they demanded respect for their rights. Father Grande and two others were killed by machine gun fire, while on the way to say Mass.\n\nDenis Hurley O.M.I. was the South African Roman Catholic Archbishop of Durban. Hurley was among the first church leaders to denounce apartheid, condemning the policy as an affront to human dignity. In the late 1970s Hurley held a daily silent protest, standing in front of the central Durban Post Office for a period each day with a placard expressing his opposition to apartheid and the displacement of people from their homes. He received many death threats and was at times subject to house arrest. According to Gerald Shaw writing for \"The Guardian\", \"It was in part due to his sustained moral crusade and that of other churchmen that the transition to democracy, when it came in 1994, was accepted by white people in peace and good order.\" Hurley is remembered for his contribution to the struggle against apartheid, his concern for the poor and his commitment towards a more just and peaceful society.\n\nJaime Sin was the Cardinal Archbishop of Manila, who \"played a key role in the Philippines' transition to democracy following the lengthy dictatorship of Ferdinand Marcos. The Associated Press called Sin \"the Philippines' moral compass\". Beyond its effects on the Philippines, the peaceful ouster of Marcos has been cited as a milestone in the movement toward popularly chosen governments throughout the world.\n\nDuring World War I, Ben Salmon was a conscientious objector and outspoken critic of Just War theology. The US military charged him with desertion and spreading propaganda, then sentenced him to death, a sentence later commuted to twenty-five years hard labor.\n\nDuring world War II, Out of a total of 21 million Catholics only 223 claimed IV-E CO status, conscientious objection to military service; 135 were eventually classified. Most Catholic objectors chose I-A-O status, noncombatant military service, generally as unarmed medics on the front lines. In addition to these 135 Catholic conscientious objectors, 61 Catholics refused induction and were imprisoned.\n\nInitially founded as the War Relief Services, the original purpose of Catholic Relief Services was to aid the refugees of war-torn Europe. The continuing support of the American Catholic helped CRS expand operations and in 1955 its name was officially changed to Catholic Relief Services. Over time the agency learned that to supply emergency aid without addressing the underlying problems might prolong conflict by providing new resources to the warring parties. In light of that, CRS has re-evaluated how best to focus their activities. In some countries CRS works on providing peace education for children in refugee camps or improving relations between refugees and local inhabitants. It works in ninety-three countries in programs that address hunger, the provision of clean water, and health issues.\nAfter the war Catholic peacemaking narrowed down to a very few institutions, including the Catholic Worker Movement, and individuals, including Dorothy Day, Ammon Hennacy, and Thomas Merton. After the war, activities were carried on by such individuals as Joseph Fahey and Eileen Egan who were instrumental in the creation of Pax Christi.\n\nThe institutional church, and especially the papacy, long sought to use its authority to promote peace and justice, and like all human institutions, has met with mixed results. The first was primarily in the area of international diplomacy; the second was the realm of canon law and of theology, in attempts to define the limits of war and violence; and the third, among the Scholastics who investigated the boundaries of individual conscience.\n\nFor Medieval Europe, canon law served as a code of international law. According to Garret Mattingly, ...since the eleventh century, the canonists had been pre-occupied with many of the problems which we think of as belonging to public international law, with the definition of sovereignty, with the sanctity of treaties, with the preservation of peace, with the rights of neutrals and noncombatants, and with the mitigation of the rigours of war.\n\nIn the thirteenth century the Papacy became the first Western power to make a systematic use of diplomacy. \nThe papacy, in fact, can be regarded as the originator of many of the most basic elements of modern diplomacy and international law: the protection and safe conduct of ambassadors, the secrecy of diplomatic negotiations, the insistence that treaties and their terms, once made, are to be strictly adhered to, the condemnation of violations, provisions for the release of prisoners and hostages and their humane treatment while in detention, the protection of exiles, aliens, and racial minorities, and the condemnation of unjust wars all derive from the papal position both as the leader of Christian society and as a force for international unity among secular states.\n\nThe papacy’s association of peace with justice that motivated its active arbitration in international relations also prompted its interest in another area associated with justice, that of \"jus\" or law. In the international sphere this brought the papacy to adopt the ancient Roman theories of the\" jus gentium\", a body of custom and agreements among peoples and sovereign princes, from the tenth century linked with the revival of Roman law in Italy. Closely associated with Roman law and custom was the notion of the just war, which was Christianized by St. Augustine and handed on to the Middle Ages through St. Isidore of Seville.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30871590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871590", "title": "Chaldean Oracles", "text": "Chaldean Oracles\n\nThe Chaldean Oracles are a set of spiritual and philosophical texts widely used by Neoplatonist philosophers from the 3rd to the 6th century C.E. While the original texts have been lost, they have survived in the form of fragments consisting mainly of quotes and commentary by Neoplatonist writers. They were likely to have originally formed a single mystery-poem, which may have been in part compiled, in part received via trance, by Julian the Chaldean, or more likely, his son, Julian the Theurgist in the 2nd century C.E. Later Neoplatonists, such as Iamblichus and Proclus, rated them highly. The 4th-century Emperor Julian (not to be confused with Julian the Chaldean or Julian the Theurgist) suggests in his \"Hymn to the Magna Mater\" that he was an initiate of the God of the Seven Rays, and was an adept of its teachings. When Christian Church Fathers or other Late Antiquity writers credit \"the Chaldeans\", they are probably referring to this tradition.\n\nAn analysis of the Chaldean Oracles demonstrates an inspiration for contemporary gnostic teachings: fiery emanations initiate from the transcendental First Paternal Intellect, from whom the Second Intellect, the Demiurge comprehends the cosmos as well as himself. Within the First Intellect, a female Power, designated Hecate, is, like Sophia, the mediating World-Soul. At the base of all lies created Matter, made by the Demiurgic Intellect. The matter farthest from the Highest God (First Father / Intellect) was considered a dense shell from which the enlightened soul must emerge, shedding its bodily garments. A combination of ascetic conduct and correct ritual are recommended to free the soul from the confines of matter and limitations, and to defend it against the demonic powers lurking in some of the realms between Gods and mortals.\n\nThe exact origins of the \"Chaldean Oracles\" are unknown, but are usually attributed to Julian the Theurgist and/or his father, Julian the Chaldean. \"Chaldea\" is the term that Greeks of the 4th century and later used for Babylon. It is the way they transliterated the Assyrian name Kaldū, which was an area that lay southeast of Babylonia towards the coast of the Persian Gulf. It is not known whether Julian the Chaldean was actually of Eastern descent, or whether the term \"Chaldean\" had by his time come to mean \"magician\" or practitioner of mysterious arts.\n\nHis son, Julian the Theurgist, served in the Roman army during Marcus Aurelius' campaign against the Quadi. Julian claimed to have saved the Roman camp from a severe drought by causing a rainstorm. At least four other religious groups also claimed credit for this rainstorm. The circumstances surrounding the writing of the Oracles are also mysterious, the most likely explanation being that Julian uttered them after inducing a sort of trance, leading to the belief that they were handed down to Julian by the gods. No original documents containing the \"Oracles\" have survived to the present day, and what we know of the text has been reconstructed from fragments and quotes by later Neoplatonist philosophers, as well as Christian philosophers who were influenced by Platonist thought. Neoplatonists including Porphyry, Iamblichus, and Proclus wrote extensive commentaries on the \"Oracles\" which are now lost. The most extensive surviving commentary was written by the Christian philosopher Michael Psellus in the 9th century C.E. Psellus' work has been an important tool for interpreting earlier and more fragmentary excerpts from the \"Oracles\".\n\nWhether or not they were composed by Julian himself, or whether Julian compiled them from actual Chaldean originals, the oracles are mainly a product of Hellenistic (and more precisely Alexandrian) syncretism as practiced in the cultural melting-pot that was Alexandria, and were credited with embodying many of the principal features of a \"Chaldean philosophy\". They were held in the greatest esteem throughout Late Antiquity, and by the later followers of Neoplatonism, although frequently argued against by Augustine of Hippo. The doctrines contained therein have been attributed by some to Zoroaster.\n\nThe \"Chaldean Oracles\" were considered to be a central text by many of the later Neoplatonist philosophers, nearly equal in importance to Plato's \"Timaeus\". This has led some scholars, beginning with F. Cumont, to declare the \"Oracles\" \"The Bible of the Neoplatonists\".\n\nThe essence of Hellenistic civilization was the fusion of a Hellenic core of religious belief and social organization with Persian-Babylonian (\"Chaldean\"), Israelite and Egyptian cultures, including their mysterious and enthusiastic cults and wisdom-traditions. Hellenistic thinkers philosophized the mythology and cults, as well as foreign oracular utterances and initiatory lore. Philosophy originating from these two areas, or simply attributed to them, was regarded as possessing knowledge transmitted from the most ancient wisdom traditions.\n\nIn Egypt, the attempt to philosophize and synthesize ancient religious content resulted in part in the writings conventionally attributed to Hermes Trismegistus. The Chaldean Oracles are a parallel endeavour, on a smaller scale, to philosophize the wisdom of Chaldea. However, rather than the prose writings that came out of Egypt, the Chaldean Oracles originated from the fragments of a single mystery-poem, which has not been entirely preserved. By far the greatest number of the poem's known fragments are found in the books of the later Platonic philosophers, who from the time of Porphyry, and probably that of Plotinus, held these Oracles in the highest estimation. Iamblichus of Syria referred frequently to the Oracles and mingled their ideas with his own.\n\nThe metaphysical schema of the Chaldaean Oracles begins with an absolutely transcendent deity called Father, with whom resides Power, a productive principle from which it appears Intellect proceeds. This Intellect has a twofold function, to contemplate the Forms of the purely intellectual realm of the Father, and to craft and govern the material realm. In this latter capacity the Intellect is Demiurge.\n\nThe Oracles further posit a barrier between the intellectual and the material realm, personified as Hecate. In the capacity of barrier, or more properly \"membrane\", Hecate separates the two 'fires,' i.e., the purely intellectual fire of the Father, and the material fire from which the cosmos is created, and mediates all divine influence upon the lower realm.\n\nFrom Hecate is derived the World-Soul, which in turn emanates Nature, the governor of the sub-lunar realm. From Nature is derived Fate, which is capable of enslaving the lower part of the human soul. The goal of existence then is to purify the lower soul of all contact with Nature and Fate by living a life of austerity and contemplation. Salvation is achieved by an ascent through the planetary spheres, during which the soul casts off the various aspects of its lower soul, and becomes pure intellect.\n\nBeneath the world of the Intelligible Triad of Father, the Magna Mater or Hecate, and Intellect lie the three successive descending Empyrean, Ethereal and Elemental Worlds. A Second Demiurgic Intellect represents the divine power in the Empyrean World, a Third Intellect represents the divine power in the Ethereal World. An Elemental World is ruled by Hypezokos or Flower of Fire.\n\nThe Chaldean Oracles were first translated into English by Thomas Taylor. They were taken up in the 19th-century Occult tradition and translated by William Wynn Westcott in 1895.\n\nThe original poem has not come down to us in any connected form, and is known through quotations in the works of the Neoplatonists, especially Damascius.\n\nW. Kroll published an edition arranging all known fragments in order of subject, and this is the basis of most later scholarly work. It does not purport to be a reconstruction of the original poem.\n\nSummaries of the poem (and of the related \"Assyrian Oracles\", not known from elsewhere) were composed by Michael Psellos, and attempts have been made to arrange the surviving fragments in accordance with these summaries: Westcott's translation (above) is an example of such an attempt. These reconstructions are not generally regarded as having scholarly value, but sometimes surface in theosophical or occult use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24939994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24939994", "title": "Child harvesting", "text": "Child harvesting\n\nChild harvesting refers to the systematic sale of human children, typically for adoption by families in the developed world, but sometimes for other purposes, including trafficking. The term covers a wide variety of situations and degrees of economic, social, and physical coercion. Child harvesting programs or the locations at which they take place are sometimes referred to as baby factories or baby farms.\n\nChild harvesting typically refers to situations where children are sold for adoption, but may also refer to situations in which children are trafficked to provide slave labor. It is particularly associated with and prevalent in some international adoption markets.\n\nInfants who are trafficked are often eventually forced to work in plantations, mines and factories, as domestic workers or as sex workers. There have been a very few allegations of some child harvesting programs that provide infants to be tortured or sacrificed in black magic or witchcraft rituals. Nigerian security agents have uncovered a series of alleged baby factories in recent years, notably in the southeastern part of the country.\n\nHuman trafficking is widespread in west Africa, where children are bought from their families to work in plantations, mines and factories or as domestic help.\n\nOthers are sold into prostitution, and less commonly they are tortured or sacrificed in black magic rituals. Human trafficking, including selling children, is prohibited under Nigerian law (PDF), but almost 10 years ago a UNESCO report (PDF) on human trafficking in Nigeria identified the business as the country’s third-most common crime behind financial fraud and drug trafficking, and the situation certainly has not improved. At least 10 children are reportedly sold every day across the country. They are now being sold like commodities and, as a responsible government, we cannot allow this to continue to exist in Enugu State,” Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, governor of Enugu, said while inaugurating the committee last month.\n\nPregnant women may face economic or social duress, or, less commonly, outright coercion to give up their newborns. There are rare reports of women who are not yet pregnant being impregnated to produce infants for sale.\n\nBaby farms have been reported in India, Nigeria, Guatemala, Thailand Greece, and Egypt.\n\nChild harvesting in Nigeria is a subset of human trafficking. It often takes place in structures disguised as maternity homes, orphanages, clinics and small scale factories where pregnant girls live and deliver babies in return for monetary compensation. The trend is precipitated by various factors including a social premium placed on child bearing and social stigmas around infertility and teenage pregnancy. A black market for newly born babies has developed in parts of the country to provide infants to wealthy families who prefer cheaper clandestine methods as a substitute for surrogacy, in vitro fertilization, assisted reproductive technology or adoption through social services.\n\nThe majority of the women whose children are sold are young unmarried women from lower-income households who are scared of social stigmatization as a result of an unwanted teenage pregnancy. Some of the young girls come to the baby factory after searching for abortion clinics, though others have been kidnapped. Most of the discovered baby factories are found in Southern Nigeria with high incidence in Ondo, Ogun, Imo, Akwa Ibom Abia and Anambra.\n\nThe first publicly reported case of a baby factory was published by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation in 2006. In 2008, a network of baby factories claiming to be orphanages, was revealed in Enugu, Enugu State (Nigeria) by police raids. In 2011, Nigerian police raided two more hospitals, thereby dismantling two baby factories: in June, thirty-two pregnant women were found in Aba, Abia in a hospital of \"The Cross Foundation\"; in October, seventeen pregnant women (thirty according to some sources) were found in Ihiala, Anambra in a hospital of the \"Iheanyi Ezuma Foundation\". Five more baby factories were discovered in 2013, and eight more were discovered in 2015. Infertile women are noted to be major patrons of these baby factories due to the stigmatization of childless couples in Southern Nigeria and issues around cultural acceptability of surrogacy and adoption. These practices have contributed to the growth in the industry which results in physical, psychological, and sexual violence to the victims.\n\nTackling baby factories will involve a multifaceted approach that includes advocacy and enacting of legislation barring baby factories and infant trafficking and harsh consequences for their patrons. Also, programs to educate young girls on preventing unwanted pregnancies are needed. Methods of improving awareness and acceptability of adoption and surrogacy and reducing the administrative and legal bottlenecks associated with these options for infertile couples should be explored to diminish the importance of baby factories\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13244584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13244584", "title": "Coin3D", "text": "Coin3D\n\nCoin3D is a free and open-source implementation (library) of the Open Inventor API. Coin3D was originally developed and maintained as commercial software by the Norwegian company Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies (formerly Kongsberg SIM). Coin3D, like Open Inventor, is a C++ object oriented retained mode 3D graphics API used to provide a higher layer of programming for OpenGL. The API provides a number of common graphics rendering constructs to developers such as scene graphs to accomplish this. Coin3D is fully compatible with the Open Inventor API version 2.1. Coin3D is being used by many small and large companies to drive advanced visualization solution in a wide range of application domains such as geo-modelling, CAD, medical visualization, robotics and presentation.\n\nAccording to Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies, the software is used in a number of commercial and open-source, scientific visualization or 3D modeling projects such as OpenRAVE. Apple, for example, uses Coin for 3D rendering in iWork '08 and later. FreeCAD adopted Coin3D to an interface for developing Open Inventor programs.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2011 Coin3D was developed and maintained by Systems in Motion (SIM), later renamed to Kongsberg SIM, later merged into the parent company Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies Kongsberg Gruppen. During this period Coin3D was available under a dual license scheme: GPL or a proprietary commercial license. Mid-2011, Kongsberg decided to end Coin3D as a commercial product due to diminishing demand and changing business focus. As a service to the user community Kongsberg re-licensed Coin3D under the less restrictive BSD 3-clause license.\n\nThe BSD licensed source code is available at Bitbucket.\n\nKongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies also develops software development libraries designed to integrate Coin3D with GUI development environments.\nLegacy GUI bindings are Qt (SoQt), Win32 API (SoWin) and Motif (SoXt) are also maintained.\n\nCoin3D is written in C++, but can be access from other programming languages using available bindings. Bindings have been developed for Python Pivy, Java and JavaScript. Nickel provides access to most of the Coin3D functionality from .NET.\n\n"}
{"id": "35638053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35638053", "title": "David Christiani", "text": "David Christiani\n\nDavid Christiani (25 December 1610 – 13 February 1688) was a German mathematician, philosopher and Lutheran theologian.\n"}
{"id": "32305214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32305214", "title": "European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism", "text": "European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism\n\nThe European Society for the Study of Western Esotericism (ESSWE) is Europe's only scholarly society for the study of Western esotericism. Founded in 2005, the society promotes academic study of the various manifestations of Western esotericism from late antiquity to the present, and works to secure the future development of the field.\n\nThe peer-reviewed journal, \"Aries\", and the associated Aries book series (both Brill),are published under the auspices of the ESSWE. The society also publishes a periodic \"Newsletter\".\n\nThe ESSWE holds an international conference in a different European country every two years, and holds a workshop for graduate students in years in which there is no conference. Past conferences have been in Tübingen (2007), Strasbourg and Messina (2009), Szeged (2011), Gothenburg (2013), and Riga (2015). The 2017 conference is scheduled to take place in Erfurt.\n\nThe ESSWE provides various resources on its website, awards prizes and travel bursaries to recognize and encourage younger scholars. It has three regional networks, the Scandinavian Network for the Academic Study of Western Esotericism (SNASWE), the Israeli Network for the Study of Western Esotericsm (INASWE), and the Irish Network for the Study of Esotericism and Paganism (INSEP) and two thematic research networks, the Contemporary Esotericism Research Network (ContERN) and the ESSWE Network for the Study of Esotericism in Antiquity (NSEA).\n\nThe ESSWE is an affiliated society of the Project AWE (Aesthetics of Western Esotericism), International Association for the History of Religions (IAHR), and a related scholarly organization of the American Academy of Religion (AAR).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3027767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3027767", "title": "Ex turpi causa non oritur actio", "text": "Ex turpi causa non oritur actio\n\nThe UK Supreme Court provided a thorough reconsideration of the doctrine in 2016 in Patel v Mirza.\n\nIn the early case of \"Holman v Johnson\" Lord Mansfield CJ set out the rationale for the illegality doctrine.\n\nIn the law of tort, the principle would prevent a criminal from bringing a claim against (for example) a fellow criminal. In \"National Coal Board v England\" Lord Asquith said,\n\nIn \"Hewison v Meridian Shipping Services Pte Ltd\", an employee who had obtained his position by concealing his epilepsy was held not to be entitled to claim compensation for future loss of earnings as a result of his employer's negligence, since his deception (resulting in a pecuniary advantage contrary to the Theft Act 1968) would prevent him from obtaining similar employment in future.\n\nIt is not absolute in effect. For example, in \"Revill v Newbery\" an elderly allotment holder was sleeping in his shed with a shotgun, to deter burglars. On hearing the plaintiff trying to break in, he shot his gun through a hole in the shed, injuring the plaintiff. At first instance, the judge awarded damages on the basis that the defendant had used violence in excess of the reasonable limits allowed by lawful self-defence and was negligent to the standard of care expected of a reasonable man who found himself in such a situation. On appeal the defendant raised the defence of \"\", but the Court of Appeal held that while public interest required that someone should not benefit from his illegal conduct, different considerations applied in cases arising in tort as opposed to those in a property or contract context. Old common law authorities and the Law Commission report (Liability for Damage or Injury to Trespassers) acknowledged the existence of some duty towards trespassers and the defendant could not rely on the doctrine to relieve himself of liability.\n\nThe precise scope of the doctrine is not certain. In some cases, it seems that the illegality prevents a duty of care arising in the first place. For example, in \"Ashton v Turner\" the defendant injured the plaintiff by crashing the car they sat in together in the course of fleeing the scene of a burglary they had committed together. Ewbank J held that the court may not recognise a duty of care in such cases as a matter of public policy. Similarly, in \"Pitts v Hunt\" the Court of Appeal rationalised this approach, saying that it was impossible to decide the appropriate standard of care in cases where the parties were involved in illegality.\n\nIf the illegality vanishes by result of legislative action (such as if the law that made the act that caused the injury was a crime is repealed) or some subsequent court case (where the law is declared invalid), the tort action will stand. In the case of \"Martin v. Ziherl\", the two parties were girlfriend and boyfriend until Martin discovered Ziherl had given her herpes. Martin sued Ziherl for damages in Virginia Circuit Court, and Ziherl argued that because of the case of \"Zyzk v. Zysk\" since having sex with someone they were not married to was technically the crime of fornication, Martin could not sue Ziherl because she got herpes as result of the illegal act. Martin argued the act was unconstitutional. The court agreed with Ziherl and against Martin. Martin appealed, and the Supreme Court of Virginia reversed, agreeing with Martin's argument that because the United States Supreme Court had decided in \"Lawrence v. Texas\" that noncommercial, private intimacy was a protected right, the law making fornication a crime was unconstitutional, thus Martin could now sue since the law that made having sex with someone they were not married to was struck down as void.\n\nIn other cases, the courts view \"\" as a defence where otherwise a claim would lie, again on grounds of public policy. In \"Tinsley v Milligan\" Nicholls LJ in the Court of Appeal spoke of the court having to \"weigh or balance the adverse consequences of granting relief against the adverse consequences of refusing relief\". The plaintiff was ultimately successful in \"Tinsley v Milligan\" in the House of Lords, which allowed the claim on the grounds that the plaintiff did not need to rely on the illegality.\n\nA later case, \"Gray v Thames Trains\", upheld the basic rule of public policy that disallowed recovery of anything stemming from Plaintiff's own wrongdoing. \n\n\nThe doctrine in the aspect of contract essentially does the same thing as one of the vitiating contractual elements known as 'Illegality' .Here contractual remedies can not be enforced by a court on a defendant if it \nis manifest that the subject matter of the contract is in anyway whether directly or by implication, contrary to public policy or in contradiction with any existing law or custom.\n\nIn 2016 the Supreme Court provided a major reconsideration of this doctrine, in Patel v Mirza , over-ruling the test in Tinsley v Milligan and replacing it with a new set of principles. \nThe changes were described as 'revolutionary' by a dissenting judge on the case, Lord Sumption (at [261] in the judgement).\n\n"}
{"id": "20207911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20207911", "title": "Folk belief", "text": "Folk belief\n\nIn folkloristics, folk belief or folk-belief is a broad genre of folklore. This category includes a wide variety of behaviors, expressions, and beliefs. Examples of concepts included in this genre are magic, popular belief, folk religion, planting signs, hoodoo, conjuration, charms, root work, taboos, old wives' tales, omens, portents, the supernatural and folk medicine.\n\nFolk belief and associated behaviors are strongly evidenced among all elements of society, regardless of education level or income. In turn, folk belief is found in an agricultural, suburban, and urban environments alike.\n\nOne of a variety of compounds extending from the coinage of the term \"folklore\" in 1846 (previously \"popular antiquities\"), the term \"folk-belief\" is first evidenced in use by British folklorist Laurence Gomme in 1892.\n\nCommon parlance employs the word \"superstition\" for what folklorists generally refer to as \"folk belief\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41815683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815683", "title": "François Zourabichvili", "text": "François Zourabichvili\n\nFrançois Zourabichvili (1965 – 19 April 2006) was a French philosopher specialized in the works of Gilles Deleuze and Baruch Spinoza.\n\nFrançois Zourabichvili was the son of composer Nicolas Zourabichvili, nephew of historian Hélène Carrère d'Encausse, and cousin of author Emmanuel Carrère. He became agrégé in 1989 and earned his PhD in Philosophy in 1999. He taught at a lycee already from 1988 to 2001, was docent at Paul Valéry University, Montpellier III, and a director at the Collège international de philosophie from 1998 to 2004. He committed suicide in 2006 and is buried in the Russian Church of the Holy Trinity in Paris (XVIe arrondissement).\n\nA year after Zourabichvili's death, the Collège international de philosophie and the École normale supérieure organized a colloquium upon \"Les physiques de la pensée selon François Zourabichvili\" (\"The physics of the thinking according to François Zourabichvili\") led by Bruno Clément and Frédéric Worms. The event took place with the participation of Pierre Macherey, Pierre-François Moreau, Pierre Zaoui, Paola Marrati, Paul R. Patton, Paolo Godani and Marie-France Badie.\n\nFrançois Zourabichvili worked primarily on the concepts of \"\"event\" and \"littéralité\"\", inspired by the philosophy of Deleuze.\nIn addition, he wrote about aesthetics, a discipline in which he centered his interest for the purpose of finding relations between art and game. He published some articles about the films of Boris Barnet and Dziga Vertov.\n\n"}
{"id": "49404232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49404232", "title": "Henry Edger", "text": "Henry Edger\n\nHenry Edger (22 January, 1820, Chelwood Gate – April 1888, Paris) was an English positivist active in the nineteenth century. He was one of Auguste Comte's ten disciples.\n\nAfter studying Law in London Edger married Millicent Hobson. Although originally a protestant, he abandoned Christianity in favour of communism. He moved with his family to New York City in 1851. Over the next three years to things caught his interest, Positivism and the Socialist Community of Modern Times an anarchist intentional community based on Long Island, New York State. The two interests were combined when he moved to the community in 1854 for the purposes of spreading positivism. He also started a long series of correspondence with Comte which continued until the latter's death in 1857.\n\nAlthough his attempts to spread positivism amongst the inhabitants of Modern Times met with little success, and indeed encountered the hostility of its founder Josiah Warren, it nevertheless provided a base from which Edger could promote Positivism further afield. With his convert, John Metcalf, he provided a range of Positivist reading material available by mail including \"Modern Times, the Labor question, and the Family\" which he written himself.\n\nIn 1880 Edger left Modern Times and moved to Paris, where he died in 1888.\n"}
{"id": "28596904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28596904", "title": "Hinduism in the West", "text": "Hinduism in the West\n\nThe reception of Hinduism in the western world begins in the 19th century, at first at an academic level of religious studies and antiquarian interest in Sanskrit.\nOnly after World War II does Hinduism acquire a presence as a religious minority in western nations, partly due to immigration, and partly due to conversion, the latter especially in the context of the 1960s to 1970s counter-culture, giving rise to a number of Hinduism-inspired new religious movements sometimes also known as \"Neo-Hindu\" or \"export Hinduism\".\n\nDuring the British colonial period the British substantially influenced Indian society, but India also influenced the western world. An early champion of Indian-inspired thought in the West was Arthur Schopenhauer who in the 1850s advocated ethics based on an \"Aryan-Vedic theme of spiritual self-conquest\", as opposed to the ignorant drive toward earthly utopianism of the superficially this-worldly \"Jewish\" spirit. Helena Blavatsky moved to India in 1879, and her Theosophical Society, founded in New York in 1875, evolved into a peculiar mixture of Western occultism and Hindu mysticism over the last years of her life.\n\nThe sojourn of Vivekananda to the World Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893 had a lasting effect. Vivekananda founded the Ramakrishna Mission, an Indian religious missionary organization still active today.\n\nHinduism-inspired elements in Theosophy were also inherited by the spin-off movements of Ariosophy and Anthroposophy and ultimately contributed to the renewed New Age boom of the 1960s to 1980s, the term \"New Age\" itself deriving from Blavatsky's 1888 \"The Secret Doctrine\".\n\nIn the early 20th century, Western occultists influenced by Hinduism include Maximiani Portaz – an advocate of \"Aryan Paganism\" – who styled herself \"Savitri Devi\" and Jakob Wilhelm Hauer, founder of the German Faith Movement. It was in this period, and until the 1920s, that the swastika became a ubiquitous symbol of good luck in the West before its association with the Nazi Party became dominant in the 1930s. In 1920, Yogananda came to the United States as India's delegate to an International Congress of Religious Liberals convening in Boston; the same year he founded the Self-Realization Fellowship (SRF) to disseminate worldwide his teachings on India's ancient practices and philosophy of Yoga and its tradition of meditation. In unrelated developments, during the same time Jiddu Krishnamurti, a South Indian Brahmin, was promoted as the \"vehicle\" of the messianic entity Maitreya, the so-called \"World Teacher\", by the Theosophical Society.\n\nAnother early Hindu teacher received in the west was Sri Aurobindo (d. 1950), who had considerable influence on western \"integral\" esotericism, traditionalism (\"Perennialism\") or spirituality in the tradition of René Guénon, Julius Evola, Rudolf Steiner, etc.\n\nDuring the 1960s to 1970s counter-culture, Sathya Sai Baba (Sathya Sai Organization), A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada (ISKCON or \"Hare Krishna\"), Guru Maharaj Ji (Divine Light Mission) and Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (Transcendental Meditation movement) attracted a notable western following, founding religious or quasi-religious movements that remain active into the present time. This group of movements founded by charismatic persons with a corpus of esoteric writings, predominantly in English, is classed as founding, proselytizing religions, or \"guru-ism\" by Michaels (1998).\n\nHatha Yoga was popularized from the 1960s by B.K.S. Iyengar, K. Pattabhi Jois and others. However, western practice of Yoga has mostly become detached from its religious or mystic context and is predominantly practiced as exercise or alternative medicine.\n\nSince the 1980s, Mata Amritanandamayi and Mother Meera (the \"Divine Mother\", self-identifying as an avatar of Shakti) have been active in the west.\n\nSubstantial emigration from the (predominantly Hindu) Republic of India has taken place since the 1970s, with several million Hindus moving to North America and Western Europe. In 1913, A.K. Mozumdar became the first Indian-born person to earn U.S. citizenship.\n\nThe largest immigrant (Deshi) Hindu communities in the west are found in the United States (3.23 million), the United Kingdom (0.84 million), Canada (0.50 million), Australia (0.44 million), New Zealand (0.09 million), besides smaller communities in other countries of Western Europe, (Netherlands 0.21 M, Italy 0.18 M, France 0.12 M, Germany 0.1 M, Spain 0.03 M and Switzerland 0.03 M).\nMuch of the Hindu presence in Canada is due to the Tamil diaspora as a result of the Sri Lankan civil war, as well as Gujarati and Punjabi immigrants from India - along with a small Hindu community from the Caribbean.\n\nGrowing out of the enthusiasm for Hinduism in 1960s counter culture, modern western popular culture has adopted certain elements ultimately based in Hinduism which are not now considered necessarily practiced in a religious or spiritual setting. This concerns yoga in particular, which is widely practiced for health and fitness. As an instance, Bikram Choudhury's Bikram Yoga has attracted many celebrities.\n\n\"Hinduism is attracting Western adherents through the affiliated practice of yoga. Yoga centers in the West—which generally advocate vegetarianism—attract young, well-educated Westerners who are drawn by yoga's benefits for the physical and emotional health; there they are introduced to the Hindu philosophical system taught by most yoga teachers, known as Vedanta.\"\nIt is estimated that around 30 million Americans and 5 million Europeans regularly practice some form of Hatha Yoga. In Australia, the number of practitioners is about 300,000. In New Zealand the number is also around 300,000.\n\n'In the West, a more modernized \"New Age\" version of Ayurveda has recently gained popularity as a unique form of complementary and alternative medicine (CAM).'\n\n\"Vegetarianism, nonviolent ethics, yoga, and meditation—all have enjoyed spates of Occidental popularity in the last 40 years, often influenced by ISKCON directly, if not indirectly.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27828644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27828644", "title": "Host–parasite coevolution", "text": "Host–parasite coevolution\n\nHost–parasite coevolution is a special case of coevolution, the reciprocal adaptive genetic change of a host and a parasite through reciprocal selective pressures.\n\nIt is characterized by reciprocal genetic change and thus changes in allele frequencies within populations. These are determined by three main types of selection dynamics: negative frequency-dependent selection when a rare allele has a selective advantage; overdominance caused by heterozygote advantage; and directional selective sweeps near an advantageous mutation.\n\nTheories of host–parasite coevolution include the geographic mosaic theory, which assumes a selection mosaic, coevolutionary hotspots, and geographic mixing; the Red Queen hypothesis, which proposes that parasitism favours sexual reproduction in the host; and an evolutionary trade-off between transmission and virulence, since if the parasite kills its host too quickly, the parasite will not be able to reproduce.\n\nModel systems include the nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" with the bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\"; the crustacean \"Daphnia\" and its numerous parasites; and \"Escherichia coli\" and the mammals (including humans) whose intestines it inhabits.\n\nHosts and parasites exert reciprocal selective pressures on each other, which may lead to rapid reciprocal adaptation. For organisms with short generation times, host–parasite coevolution can be observed in comparatively small time periods, making it possible to study evolutionary change in real-time under both field and laboratory conditions. These interactions may thus serve as a counter-example to the common notion that evolution can only be detected across extended time.\n\nThe dynamics of these interactions are summarized in the Red Queen hypothesis, namely that both host and parasite have to change continuously to keep up with each other's adaptations.\n\nHost–parasite coevolution is ubiquitous and of potential importance to all living organisms, including humans, domesticated animals and crops. Major diseases such as malaria, AIDS and influenza are caused by coevolving parasites. Better understanding of coevolutionary adaptations between parasite attack strategies and host immune systems may assist in the development of novel medications and vaccines.\n\nHost–parasite coevolution is characterized by reciprocal genetic change and thus changes in allele frequencies within populations. These changes may be determined by three main types of selection dynamics.\n\nAn allele is subject to negative frequency dependent selection if a rare allelic variant has a selective advantage. For example, the parasite should adapt to the most common host genotype, because it can then infect a large number of hosts. In turn, a rare host genotype may then be favored by selection, its frequency will increase and eventually it becomes common. Subsequently, the parasite should adapt to the former infrequent genotype.\n\nCoevolution determined by negative frequency dependent selection is rapid, potentially occurring across few generations. It maintains high genetic diversity by favoring uncommon alleles. This selection mode is expected for multicellular hosts, because adaptations can occur without the need for novel advantageous mutations, which are less likely to be frequent in these hosts because of relatively small population sizes and relatively long generation times.\n\nOverdominance occurs if the heterozygote phenotype has a fitness advantage over both homozygotes (heterozygote advantage, causing heterosis). One example is sickle cell anemia. It is due to a mutation in the hemoglobin gene leading to sickle shape formation of red blood cells, causing clotting in blood vessels, restricted blood flow, and reduced oxygen transport. At the same time, the mutation confers resistance to malaria, caused by \"Plasmodium\" parasites, which are passed off in red blood cells after transmission to humans by mosquitoes. Hence, homozygote and heterozygote genotypes for the sickle-cell disease allele show malaria resistance, while the homozygote suffers from severe disease phenotype. The alternative homozygote, which does not carry the sickle cell disease allele, is susceptible to infection by \"Plasmodium\". As a consequence, the heterozygote genotype is selectively favored in areas with a high incidence of malaria.\n\nIf an allele provides a fitness benefit, its frequency will increase within a population – selection is directional or positive. Selective sweeps are one form of directional selection, where the increase in frequency will eventually lead to the fixation of the advantageous allele. The process is considered to be slower in comparison to negative frequency dependent selection. It may produce an \"arms race\", consisting of the repeated origin and fixation of new parasite virulence and host defence traits.\n\nThis mode of selection is likely to occur in interactions between unicellular organisms and viruses due to large population sizes, short generation times, often haploid genomes and horizontal gene transfer, which increase the probability of beneficial mutations arising and spreading through populations.\n\nJohn N. Thompson's geographic mosaic theory of coevolution hypothesizes spatially divergent coevolutionary selection, producing genetic differentiation across populations. The model assumes three elements that jointly fuel coevolution:\n\n1) a selection mosaic among populations\n2) coevolutionary hotspots\n3) geographic mixing of traits\n\nAmong plants, \"Plantago lanceolata\" and its parasite the powdery mildew \"Podosphaera plantaginis\" have been intensively studied on the Aland islands in south-western Finland. \"P. plantaginis\" obtains nutrients from its host, a perennial herb, by sending feeding roots into the plant. There are more than 3000 host populations in this region, where both populations can evolve freely, in absence of human-imposed selection, in a heterogeneous landscape. Both partners can reproduce asexually or sexually. The system has spatially divergent coevolutionary dynamics across two metapopulations as predicted by the mosaic theory.\n\nThe New Zealand freshwater snail \"Potamopyrgus antipodarum\" and its different trematode parasites represent a rather special model system. Populations of \"P. antipodarum\" consist of asexual clones and sexual individuals and therefore can be used to study the evolution and advantages of sexual reproduction. There is a high correlation between the presence of parasites and the frequency of sexual individuals within the different populations. This result is consistent with the Red Queen hypothesis that sexual reproduction is favoured during host–parasite coevolution. At the same time, the persistence of sex may also rely on other factors, for example Muller's ratchet and/or the avoidance of the accumulation of deleterious mutations.\n\n\"Tribolium castaneum\", the red flour beetle, is a host for the microsporidian \"Nosema whitei\". This parasitoid kills its host for transmission, so the host's lifespan is important for the parasite's success. In turn, parasite fitness most likely depends on a trade-off between transmission (spore load) and virulence. A higher virulence would increase the potential for the production of more offspring, but a higher spore load would affect the host's lifespan and therefore the transmission rate. This trade-off is supported by coevolutionary experiments, which revealed the decrease of virulence, a constant transmission potential and an increase in the host's lifespan over a period of time.\nFurther experiments demonstrated a higher recombination rate in the host during coevolutionary interactions, which may be selectively advantageous because it should increase diversity of host genotypes.\n\nResources are generally limited. Therefore, investment in one trait (e.g. virulence or immunity) limits investment in other life-history traits (e.g. reproductive rate). Moreover, genes are often pleiotropic, having multiple effects. Thus, a change in a pleiotropic immunity or virulence gene can automatically affect other traits. There is thus a trade-off between benefits and costs of the adaptive changes that may prevent the host population from becoming fully resistant or the parasite population from being highly pathogenic. The costs of gene pleiotropy have been investigated in coevolving \"Escherichia coli\" and bacteriophages. To inject their genetic material, phages need to bind to a specific bacterial cell surface receptor. The bacterium may prevent injection by altering the relevant binding site, e.g. in response to point mutations or deletion of the receptor. However, these receptors have important functions in bacterial metabolism. Their loss would thus decrease fitness (i.e. population growth rate). As a consequence, there is a trade-off between the advantages and disadvantages of a mutated receptor, leading to polymorphism at this locus.\n\n \nThe nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" and the bacterium \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" were only recently established as a model system for studying host–parasite coevolution. Laboratory evolution experiments provided evidence for many of the basic predictions of these coevolutionary interactions, including reciprocal genetic change, and increases in the rate of evolution and genetic diversity.\n\nThe crustacean \"Daphnia\" and its numerous parasites have become one of the main model systems for studying coevolution. \nThe host can be asexual as well as sexual (induced by changes in the external environment), so sexual reproduction can be stimulated in the laboratory. Decades of coevolution between \"Daphnia magna\" and the bacterium \"Pasteuria ramosa\" have been reconstructed, reanimating resting stages of both species from laminated pond sediments and exposing hosts from each layer to parasites from the past, the same and the future layers. The study demonstrated that parasites were on average most infective with their contemporary hosts, consistent with negative frequency dependent selection.\n\n\"Escherichia coli\", a Gram-negative proteobacterium, is a common model in biological research, for which comprehensive data on various aspects of its life-history is available. It has been used extensively for evolution experiments, including those related to coevolution with phages. These studies revealed – among others – that coevolutionary adaptation may be influenced by pleiotropic effects of the involved genes. In particular, binding of the bacteriophage to \"E. coli\" surface receptor is the crucial step in the virus infection cycle. A mutation in the receptor's binding site may cause resistance. Such mutations often show pleiotropic effects and may cause a cost of resistance. In the presence of phages, such pleiotropy may lead to polymorphisms in the bacterial population and thus enhance biodiversity in the community.\n\nAnother model system consists of the plant- and animal-colonizing bacterium \"Pseudomonas\" and its bacteriophages. This system provided new insights into the dynamics of coevolutionary change. It demonstrated that coevolution may proceed via recurrent selective sweeps, favouring generalists for both antagonists. Furthermore, coevolution with phages may promote allopatric diversity, potentially enhancing biodiversity and possibly speciation. Host-parasite coevolution may also affect the underlying genetics, for example by favouring increased mutation rates in the host.\n\nTropical tree and liana interactions have also been the subject of study. Here lianas have been viewed as hyper-diverse generalist macro-parasites that affect host survival by parasitising on the host's structural support for access to canopy light, while usurping resources that would otherwise be available to their host. Host trees have widely varying levels of tolerance to infestation of their crowns by lianas. \n\n"}
{"id": "1290184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1290184", "title": "Hubert Harrison", "text": "Hubert Harrison\n\nHubert Henry Harrison (April 27, 1883 – December 17, 1927) was a West Indian-American writer, orator, educator, critic, and race and class conscious political activist and radical internationalist based in Harlem, New York. He was described by activist A. Philip Randolph as \"the father of Harlem radicalism\" and by the historian Joel Augustus Rogers as \"the foremost Afro-American intellect of his time.\" John G. Jackson of American Atheists described him as \"The Black Socrates\".\n\nAn immigrant from St. Croix at the age of 17, Harrison played significant roles in the largest radical class and race movements in the United States. In 1912-14 he was the leading Black organizer in the Socialist Party of America. In 1917 he founded the Liberty League and \"The Voice\", the first organization and the first newspaper of the race-conscious \"New Negro\" movement. From his Liberty League and \"Voice\" came the core leadership of individuals and race-conscious program of the Garvey movement.\n\nHarrison was a seminal and influential thinker who encouraged the development of class consciousness among working people, positive race consciousness among Black people, agnostic atheism, secular humanism, social progressivism, and freethought. He was also a self-described \"radical internationalist\" and contributed significantly to the Caribbean radical tradition. Harrison profoundly influenced a generation of \"New Negro\" militants, including A. Philip Randolph, Chandler Owen, Marcus Garvey, Richard Benjamin Moore, W. A. Domingo, Williana Burroughs, and Cyril Briggs.\n\nHubert was born to Cecilia Elizabeth Haines, a working-class woman, on Estate Concordia, St. Croix, Danish West Indies. His biological father, Adolphus Harrison, was born enslaved. One account from the 1920s suggested that Harrison's father owned a substantial estate. Harrison's biographer, however, found no such landholding and writes that \"there is no indication that Adolphus, a laborer his entire life, ever owned, or even rented, land\". As a youth, Harrison knew poverty but also learned of African customs and the Crucian people's rich history of direct action mass struggles. Among his schoolmates was his lifelong friend, the future Crucian labor leader and social activist, D. Hamilton Jackson.\n\nIn later life Harrison worked with many Virgin Islands-born activists, including James C. Canegata, Anselmo Jackson, Rothschild Francis, Elizabeth Hendrikson, Casper Holstein, and Frank Rudolph Crosswaith. He was especially active in Virgin Island causes after the March 1917 U.S. purchase of the Virgin Islands, and subsequent abuses under the U.S. naval occupation of the islands.\n\nHarrison came to New York in 1900 as a 17-year-old orphan and joined his older sister. He confronted a racial oppression unlike anything he previously knew, as only the United States had such a binary color line. In the Caribbean, social relations were more fluid. Harrison was especially \"shocked\" by the virulent white-supremacy typified by lynchings, which were reaching a peak in these years in the South. They were a horror that had not existed in St. Croix or other Caribbean islands. In addition, the fact that in most places blacks and people of color far outnumbered whites meant they had more social spaces in which to operate away from the oversight of whites.\n\nIn the beginning, Harrison worked low-paying service jobs while attending high school at night. For the rest of his life, Harrison continued to study as an autodidact. While still in high school, his intellectual gifts were recognized. He was described as a \"genius\" in \"The World\", a New York daily newspaper. At age 20, he had an early letter published by \"The New York Times\" in 1903. He became an American citizen and lived in the United States the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1909 Harrison married Irene Louise Horton. They had four daughters and one son.\n\nIn his first decade in New York, Harrison started writing letters to the editor of \"The New York Times\" on topics such as lynching, Charles Darwin's theory of Evolution and literary criticism. He also began lecturing on such subjects as the poetry of Paul Laurence Dunbar and Reconstruction. As part of his civic efforts, Harrison worked with St. Benedict's Lyceum (along with bibliophile Arthur Schomburg from Puerto Rico, journalist John E. Bruce, and activist Samuel Duncan); St. Mark's Lyceum (with bibliophile George Young, educator/activist John Dotha Jones, and actor/activist Charles Burroughs); the White Rose Home (with educator/activist Frances Reynolds Keyser), and the Colored YMCA.\n\nIn this period, Harrison also became interested in the freethought movement, which encouraged use of the scientific method, empiricism, reason and thinking devoid of theistic dogma. He underwent a deconversion from Christianity and became an agnostic atheist similar to Thomas Huxley, one of his influences. Harrison's new worldview placed humanity, not a god, at its center (secular humanism).\n\nIn 1907 Harrison obtained a job at the United States Post Office.\n\nHarrison was an early supporter of the protest philosophies of W. E. B. Du Bois and William Monroe Trotter. Particularly after the Brownsville Affair, Harrison became an outspoken critic of Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft, and of the Republican Party.\n\nHe also criticized the prominent Black leader Booker T. Washington, whose political philosophy he considered subservient. In 1910 Harrison wrote two letters to the \"New York Sun\" that were critical of statements by Washington. Harrison lost his postal employment through the efforts of Washington's powerful \"Tuskegee Machine\", in events that involved the prominent Black Republican Charles W. Anderson, Washington's assistant Emmett Scott, and New York Postmaster Edward M. Morgan.\n\nHarrison was an early advocate of the Georgist economic philosophy and later clarified that he had believed Georgism was the same thing as socialism. In 1911, after his postal firing, Harrison began full-time work with the Socialist Party of America and became America's leading Black Socialist. He lectured widely against capitalism, campaigned for the party presidential candidate Eugene V. Debs in 1912, and founded the Colored Socialist Club (the Socialist's first effort at reaching African Americans). He developed two important and pioneering theoretical series on \"The Negro and Socialism\" for the socialist newspaper the \"New York Call\" and for the socialist monthly \"International Socialist Review\". He maintained that it was the principal \"duty\" of the Socialists to \"champion the cause of the African American and that the Socialists should undertake special efforts to reach African Americans as they had done with foreigners and women.\" Perhaps most importantly, he emphasized that \"Politically, the Negro is the touchstone of the modern democratic idea\" and that true democracy and equality implies \"a revolution... startling even to think of.\"\n\nHarrison moved to the left in the Socialist Party. He supported the socialistic, egalitarian, and militantly radical Industrial Workers of the World (IWW). He was a prominent speaker along with IWW leaders Bill Haywood, Elizabeth Gurley Flynn, Carlo Tresca, and Patrick Quinlan at the historic 1913 Paterson Silk Strike of 1913. He also supported IWW advocacy of direct action and sabotage. He commended the interracial, IWW-influenced, Brotherhood of Timber Workers efforts in the Deep South.\n\nDespite his efforts, Socialist Party practice and positions included segregated locals in the South and racist positions on Asian immigration. Harrison concluded that Socialist Party leaders, like organized labor, put the white \"Race first and class after.\" Harrison resigned from the Socialist Party in 1918 but was periodically referred to as a socialist by others for years afterward. After resigning from the Socialist Party, Harrison increased his activism within the 1920s Single-Tax movement.\n\nIn 1914-15, after withdrawing from the Socialist Party, Harrison began work with freethinkers, the freethought/anarchist-influenced Modern School Movement (started by the martyred Spanish anarchist/educator Francisco Ferrer), and his own Radical Forum. He also spoke widely on topics such as birth control, evolution, literature, nonbelief, and the racial aspects of World War I. His outdoor talks and free speech efforts were instrumental in developing a Harlem tradition of militant street corner oratory. He paved the way for those who followed, including A. Philip Randolph, Marcus Garvey, Richard B. Moore, and (later) Malcolm X.\n\nIn 1915-16, after a \"New York Age\" editorial by James Weldon Johnson praised his street lectures, Harrison decided to concentrate his work in Harlem's Black community. He wrote reviews on the developing Black Theatre and the pioneering Lafayette Players of the Lafayette Theatre (Harlem). He emphasized how the \"Negro Theater\" helped express the psychology of the \"Negro\" and how it called attention to color consciousness within the African-American community.\n\nIn response to the \"white first\" attitude of the organized labor movement and the Socialists, Harrison provided a \"race first\" political perspective. He founded the \"New Negro Movement,\" as a race-conscious, internationalist, mass-based, radical movement for equality, justice, opportunity, and economic power. This \"New Negro\" movement laid the basis for the Garvey movement. It encouraged mass interest in literature and the arts, and paved the way for publication of Alain Locke's well-known \"The New Negro\" eight years later. Harrison's mass-based political movement was noticeably different from the more middle-class and apolitical movement associated with Locke.\n\nIn 1917, African Americans and others were asked to 'Make the World Safe for Democracy\" by fighting during World War I. In the United States, lynchings, racial segregation and discrimination continued. Harrison founded the Liberty League and the \"Voice: A Newspaper for the New Negro\", as a radical alternative to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The Liberty League aimed at the Black masses beyond \"The Talented Tenth\". Its program advocated internationalism, political independence, and class and race consciousness. It called for full equality, federal anti-lynching legislation, enforcement of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments, labor organizing, support for socialist and anti-imperialist causes, armed self-defense, and mass-based political efforts.\n\nIn 1918 Harrison briefly served as an organizer for the American Federation of Labor (AFL). He chaired the Negro-American Liberty Congress (co-headed by William Monroe Trotter.) The latter was the major wartime protest effort of African Americans. The Liberty Congress pushed demands against discrimination and racial segregation in the United States. It submitted a petition to the U. S. Congress for federal anti-lynching legislation, which the NAACP did not demand at that time. Harrison commented on domestic and international aspects of the war, writing: \"During the war the idea of democracy was widely advertised, especially in the English-speaking world, mainly as a convenient camouflage behind which competing imperialists masked their sordid aims... [however] those who so loudly proclaimed and formulated the new democratic demands never had the slightest intention of extending the limits or the applications of 'democracy.'\"\n\nThe autonomous Liberty Congress effort was undermined by the U.S. Army's anti-radical Military Intelligence Bureau (MIB) in a campaign that included NAACP leader Joel E. Spingarn (a Major in Military Intelligence) and W. E. B. Du Bois (who applied for a Captaincy in Military Intelligence). The Liberty Congress protest efforts in wartime can be seen as precursors to the A. Philip Randolph-led March on Washington Movement during World War II, and to the Randolph and Martin Luther King, Jr.-led March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1919 Harrison edited the monthly \"New Negro\" magazine, which was \"intended as an organ of the international consciousness of the darker races--especially of the Negro race\". Harrison's concentration on international matters continued. Over the next several years, he wrote many powerful pieces critical of imperialism and supportive of internationalism. His writings and talks over his last decade revealed a deep understanding of developments in India, China, Africa, Asia, the Islamic world, and the Caribbean. Harrison repeatedly began his analysis of contemporary situations from an international perspective. Though a strong advocate of armed self-defense for African Americans, he also praised the mass-based non-violent efforts of Mohandas K. Gandhi.\n\nIn January 1920 Harrison became principal editor of the \"Negro World\", the newspaper of Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA). Over the next eight months, he developed it into the leading race-conscious, radical and literary publication of the day. By the August 1920 UNIA convention, Harrison had grown increasingly critical of Garvey. Harrison criticized Garvey for exaggerations, financial schemes, and desire for empire. In contrast to Garvey, Harrison emphasized that African Americans' principal struggle was in the United States, not in Africa. Harrison did however contribute to the UNIA's 1920 \"Declaration of the Negro Peoples of the World\". Though Harrison continued to write for the \"Negro World\" into 1922, he looked to develop political alternatives to Garvey.\n\nIn the 1920s, after breaking with Garvey, Harrison continued public speaking, writing, and organizing. He lectured on politics history, science, literature, social sciences, international affairs, and the arts for the New York City Board of Education, and was one of the first to use radio to discuss topics in which he had expertise. In early July 1923, he spoke on \"The Negro and The Nation\" over New York station WEAF. His book and theater reviews and other writings appeared in many of the leading periodicals of the day—including \"The New York Times\", \"New York Tribune\", \"Pittsburgh Courier\", \"Chicago Defender\", \"Amsterdam News\", \"New York World\", \"Nation\", \"New Republic\", \"Modern Quarterly\", \"Boston Chronicle\", and \"\" magazine. He openly criticized the Ku Klux Klan and the racist attacks of the \"Tulsa Race Riot\" of 1921. He worked with various groups, including the Virgin Island Congressional Council, the Democratic Party, the Farmer-Labor Party, the single tax movement inspired by Henry George, the American Friends Service Committee, the Urban League, the American Negro Labor Congress, and the Workers (Communist) Party (the name at that time of the Communist Party USA).\n\nIn 1924 Harrison founded the International Colored Unity League (ICUL), which was his most broadly unitary effort. The ICUL urged Black people to develop \"race consciousness\" as a defensive measure—to be aware of their racial oppression and to use that awareness to unite, organize, and respond as a group. The ICUL program sought political rights, economic power, and social justice; urged self-reliance, self-sufficiency, and cooperative efforts; and called for the founding of \"a Negro state\" in the U.S. (not in Africa, as Garvey advocated). In 1927 Harrison edited the ICUL's \"Voice of the Negro\" until shortly before his death that year.\n\nIn his last lecture, Harrison told his listeners that he had appendicitis and would be getting surgery. Afterwards, he said he would be giving another lecture. He died on the operating table, at the age of 44.\n\nHarrison's appeal was both mass and individual. His race-conscious mass appeal utilized newspapers, popular lectures, and street-corner talks. This was in contrast to the approaches of Booker T. Washington, who relied on white patrons and a Black political machine, and W. E. B. Du Bois, who focused on the \"Talented Tenth of the Negro Race\". Harrison's appeal (later identified with that of Garvey) was aimed directly at the masses. His class- and race-conscious radicalism, though neglected at some periods, laid out the contours of much subsequent debate and discussion of African-American social activists. It is being increasingly studied.\n\nFor many years after his 1927 death, Harrison was much neglected. However, recent scholarship on Harrison's life and the Columbia University Library's acquisition of his papers show renewed interest. Columbia published the \"Hubert H. Harrison Papers, 1893-1927: Finding Aid\", and plans to make Harrison's writings available on the internet. The forthcoming Columbia University Press two-volume Harrison biography also reflects the growing interest in Harrison's life and thought.\n\nBiographer Jeffrey B. Perry writes that, among the African-American leaders of his era, Harrison was \"the most class conscious of the race radicals and the most race conscious of the class radicals\". Perry emphasized that Harrison was a key unifying figure between two major trends of African-American struggle—the labor/civil rights trend (identified with Randolph and Owen, and later with Martin Luther King, Jr.) and the race/nationalist trend (identified with Garvey, and later with Malcolm X).\n\nHarrison has been described as \"the most distinguished, if not the most well-known, Caribbean radical in the United States in the early twentieth century\" by historian Winston James.\n\nAs an intellectual, Harrison was an unrivaled soapbox orator, a featured lecturer for the New York City Board of Education's prestigious \"Trend of the Times\" series, a prolific and influential writer, and, reportedly, the first Black person to write regularly published book reviews in history. His efforts in these areas were lauded by both black and white writers, intellectuals, and activists such as Eugene O'Neill, James Weldon Johnson, Henry Miller, Hermie Huiswoud, William Pickens, Bertha Howe, Hodge Kirnon, and Oscar Benson. Harrison aided Black writers and artists, including Charles Gilpin, Andy Razaf, J. A. Rogers, Eubie Blake, Walter Everette Hawkins, Claude McKay, Solomon Tshekisho Plaatje, Lucian B. Watkins, and Augusta Savage. He was a pioneer Black participant in the freethought and birth control movements as well as being a bibliophile and library popularizer. He created \"Poetry for the People\" columns in various publications, including the \"New Negro\" magazine (1919), Garvey's \"Negro World\" (1920), and the International Colored Unity League's \"The Voice of the Negro\" (1927).\n\nA sampling of his varied work and poetry appears in the edited collection \"A Hubert Harrison Reader\" (2001). His collected writings are found in the Hubert H. Harrison Papers (which also contain a detailed Finding Aid) at the Rare Book and Manuscript Library of Columbia University. Other writings appear in his two books \"The Negro and the Nation\" (1917) and \"When Africa Awakes\". A two-volume biography by Jeffrey B. Perry is being published by Columbia University Press. The first volume, \"The Voice of Harlem Radicalism, 1883-1918\", was published in November 2008 (an excerpt is available online).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11621803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11621803", "title": "Inner Traditions – Bear &amp; Company", "text": "Inner Traditions – Bear &amp; Company\n\nInner Traditions – Bear & Company, also known as Inner Traditions, is a book publisher founded by Ehud Sperling in 1975 and based in Rochester, Vermont in the United States.\n\nInner Traditions publishes books related to New Age spiritualism and esotericism, mysticism, neoshamanism, astrology, the perennial philosophy, visionary art, Earth mysteries, sacred sexuality, alternative medicine, and recordings of ethnic music and accompaniments for meditation.\n\nIn 2000, the independent publisher Bear & Company joined with Inner Traditions, moving from Santa Fe, New Mexico, where it had been founded in 1980 by Gerry Clow and astrologer Barbara Hand Clow.\n\nInner Traditions publishes other imprints, including Findhorn Press, Healing Arts Press, Destiny Books, Park Street Press, Bindu Books, and Bear Cub Books.\n\nNotable authors published primarily or exclusively by Inner Traditions include many of the English language translations of historically influential Italian fascist and occultist Julius Evola, in addition to:\n"}
{"id": "34140106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34140106", "title": "Jabberwocky sentence", "text": "Jabberwocky sentence\n\nA Jabberwocky sentence is a type of sentence of interest in neurolinguistics. Jabberwocky sentences take their name from the language of Lewis Carroll's well-known poem \"Jabberwocky\". In the poem, Carroll uses correct English grammar and syntax, but many of the words are made up and merely suggest meaning. A Jabberwocky sentence is therefore a sentence which uses correct grammar and syntax but contains nonsense words, rendering it semantically meaningless.\n\nJabberwocky sentences are of interest in the field of neurolinguistics, because they allow for the study of syntactic processing in the absence of semantic content. A study by Hahne and Jescheniak (2001) demonstrated that test subjects presented with blocks of Jabberwocky sentence trials and blocks of regular sentence trials at least one week apart demonstrated an early left anterior negativity or N150 in the event-related potential recording upon encountering a phrase structure violation in either type of sentence. The N150 was followed by a P600, indicating an attempted reinterpretation of the sentence by the brain. While the N150 is expected in the presence of phrase structure violation in normal sentences, in a Jabberwocky sentence, it indicates the processing of morpho-syntactical structure in the absence of lexical semantic content. This implies the existence of a syntactic pattern recognizer, which would interpret word class based on inflectional morphology and word order.\nA second study by Silva-Pereyra et al. showed that preschoolers at the age of 36 months demonstrate similar processing patterns compared to adults when processing normal sentences with phrase structure violations, showing ERP activity analogous to the N150 and P600 in adults, but shifted later in time. When presented with phrase-structure violations in Jabberwocky sentences, however, preschoolers demonstrate activity analogous to a N400, typically associated with the extraction of meaning from words in adults, along with a diminished P600. This implies that semantics plays a role in syntactic processing in children and provides neurobiological evidence for interactive theories over modular theories of semantic and syntactic processing.\n\n"}
{"id": "19348340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19348340", "title": "Jenkins–Laporte doctrine", "text": "Jenkins–Laporte doctrine\n\nIn United States copyright law and jurisprudence established under the doctrine of \"stare decisis\" by the case of \"Netbula, LLC v. Symantec Corp.\", 516 F. Supp.2d 1137 (N.D.Cal. 2007) and related cases. The cases defined the boundaries of property rights and contractual rights in the licensing of digital works. It is so called because the cases were decided by two renowned American judges and leading jurists, former U.S. District Judge Martin Jenkins (now a Justice in California Courts of Appeal) and Magistrate Judge Elizabeth D. Laporte.\n\nThe basic principles of the doctrine can be summarized:\n\n(1) If an accused infringer did not see or agree to copy restriction, there was no infringement;\n\n(2) A \"one user on one computer\" restriction does not limit the scope of a software license, it's an independent contractual covenant;\n\n(3) A termination clause in the license agreement does not limit the scope of the license, it's an independent contractual covenant.\n\nThe ingenious observation Justice Jenkins made was that in a copyright action, although license is an affirmative defense to infringement, the \"plaintiff’s initial hurdle is proving the terms of the license.\" 516 F. Supp. 2d at 1151. The Jenkins–Laporte doctrine provides a legal foundation for circumvention of the exclusive rights provided by the Copyright Act, as the doctrine requires the copyright owner to prove the negative.\n"}
{"id": "46596148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46596148", "title": "Jeongang", "text": "Jeongang\n\nThe Great Zen Master Jeongang Yeongshin ( ; 1898 1975) was a Zen Master of the Jogye Order of Korean Buddhism. He used the principle of Kong-an () as a way to lead his disciples to Enlightenment.\n\nZen Master Jeongang entered the Hae In Temple monastery (해인사) to become a monk when he was 16 years old and after 7 years of intense self-training he attained Enlightenment.\n\nAt age 25, he received Dharma Transmission from Zen Master Mangong. Zen Master Jeongang later became the ‘Josil’, or supreme patriarch, of Tongdo Temple when he was 33, the youngest in the history of Korean Buddhism. These achievements at such a young age are legendary in Korean Buddhism. Later he acted as Josil in the mediation halls of many famous temples within Korea including; Beobjusa, Mangwolsa, Donghwasa, Beomeosa, Cheonchuksa, Yongjusa and Jeonggaksa.\n\nAfter receiving Dharma Transmission from Zen Master Mangong, Zen Master Jeongang’s Enlightenment was confirmed and recognized by 6 Zen Masters of the time in Korea: Masters Hyebong, Hyewol, Hanam, Geumbong, Bowol and Yongseong.\n\nOn January 13, 1975, while giving a Dharma Lecture in the meditation hall at Yonghwa Temple, Beopbo, Zen Master Jeongang asked the audience, \"What is the purpose of life and death?\". When nobody answered, he said, \"Hak! Even backwards, 9 times 9 is 81.At that very moment he is said to have attained Nirvana\" \n"}
{"id": "543432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=543432", "title": "Jocelyn Bell Burnell", "text": "Jocelyn Bell Burnell\n\nDame Susan Jocelyn Bell Burnell (; born 15 July 1943) is an astrophysicist from Northern Ireland who, as a postgraduate student, co-discovered the first radio pulsars in 1967. She was credited with \"one of the most significant scientific achievements of the 20th century\". The discovery was recognised by the award of the 1974 Nobel Prize in Physics, but despite the fact that she was the first to observe the pulsars, Bell was excluded from the recipients of the prize.\n\nThe paper announcing the discovery of pulsars had five authors. Bell's thesis supervisor Antony Hewish was listed first, Bell second. Hewish was awarded the Nobel Prize, along with the astronomer Martin Ryle. Many prominent astronomers criticised Bell's omission, including Sir Fred Hoyle. In 1977, Bell Burnell played down this controversy, saying, \"I believe it would demean Nobel Prizes if they were awarded to research students, except in very exceptional cases, and I do not believe this is one of them.\" The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, in its press release announcing the 1974 Nobel Prize in Physics, cited Ryle and Hewish for their pioneering work in radio-astrophysics, with particular mention of Ryle's work on aperture-synthesis technique, and Hewish's decisive role in the discovery of pulsars.\n\nBell served as president of the Royal Astronomical Society from 2002 to 2004, as president of the Institute of Physics from October 2008 until October 2010, and as interim president of the Institute following the death of her successor, Marshall Stoneham, in early 2011.\n\nIn 2018, she was awarded the Special Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics. She gave the whole of the £2.3m prize money to help women, ethnic minority, and refugee students become physics researchers.\n\nJocelyn Bell was born in Lurgan, Northern Ireland, to M. Allison and G. Philip Bell. Her father was an architect who had helped design the Armagh Planetarium, and during visits she was encouraged by the staff to pursue astronomy professionally. Young Jocelyn also discovered her father's books on astronomy.\n\nShe grew up in Lurgan and attended the Preparatory Department of Lurgan College from 1948 to 1956, where she, like the other girls, was not permitted to study science until her parents (and others) protested against the school's policy. Previously, the girls' curriculum had included such subjects as cooking and cross-stitching rather than science.\n\nShe failed the eleven-plus exam and her parents sent her to The Mount School, a Quaker girls' boarding school in York, England. There she was favourably impressed by her physics teacher, Mr Tillott, and stated: \n\nBell Burnell was the subject of the first part of the BBC Four three-part series \"Beautiful Minds\", directed by Jacqui Farnham.\n\nShe graduated from the University of Glasgow with a Bachelor of Science degree in Natural Philosophy (physics), with honours, in 1965 and obtained a PhD degree from the University of Cambridge in 1969. At Cambridge, she attended New Hall, Cambridge, and worked with Hewish and others to construct the Interplanetary Scintillation Array to study quasars, which had recently been discovered.\n\nIn July 1967, she detected a bit of \"scruff\" on her chart-recorder papers that tracked across the sky with the stars. She established that the signal was pulsing with great regularity, at a rate of about one pulse every one and a third seconds. Temporarily dubbed \"Little Green Man 1\" (LGM-1) the source (now known as PSR B1919+21) was identified after several years as a rapidly rotating neutron star. This was later documented by the BBC \"Horizon\" series.\n\nShe worked at the University of Southampton between 1968 and 1973, University College London from 1974 to 82 and the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh (1982–91). From 1973 to 1987 she was a tutor, consultant, examiner, and lecturer for the Open University. In 1986, she became the project manager for the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope on Mauna Kea, Hawaii. She was Professor of Physics at the Open University from 1991 to 2001. She was also a visiting professor at Princeton University in the United States and Dean of Science at the University of Bath (2001–04), and President of the Royal Astronomical Society between 2002 and 2004.\n\nBell Burnell is currently Visiting Professor of Astrophysics at the University of Oxford, and a Fellow of Mansfield College. She was President of the Institute of Physics between 2008 and 2010. In February 2018 she was appointed Chancellor of the University of Dundee. In 2018, Bell Burnell visited Parkes, NSW, to deliver the keynote John Bolton lecture at the CWAS AstroFest event.\n\nIn 2018, she was awarded the Special Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics, worth three million dollars (£2.3 million), for her discovery of radio pulsars. The Special Prize, in contrast to the regular annual prize, is not restricted to recent discoveries. She donated all of the money \"to fund women, under-represented ethnic minority and refugee students to become physics researchers\", the funds to be administered by the Institute of Physics.\n\nThat Bell did not receive recognition in the 1974 Nobel Prize in Physics has been a point of controversy ever since. She helped build the Interplanetary Scintillation Array over two years and initially noticed the anomaly, sometimes reviewing as much as of paper data per night. Bell later claimed that she had to be persistent in reporting the anomaly in the face of scepticism from Hewish, who was initially insistent that it was due to interference and man-made. She spoke of meetings held by Hewish and Ryle to which she was not invited. In 1977, she commented on the issue:\n\n\nHer publications\ninclude:\n\nBell Burnell is house patron of Burnell House at Cambridge House Grammar School in Ballymena. She has campaigned to improve the status and number of women in professional and academic posts in the fields of physics and astronomy.\n\nFrom her school days, she has been an active Quaker and served as Clerk to the sessions of Britain Yearly Meeting in 1995, 1996 and 1997. She delivered a Swarthmore Lecture under the title \"Broken for Life\", at Yearly Meeting in Aberdeen on 1 August 1989, and was the plenary speaker at the US Friends General Conference Gathering in 2000. She spoke of her personal religious history and beliefs in an interview with Joan Bakewell in 2006.\n\nBell Burnell served on the Quaker Peace and Social Witness Testimonies Committee, which produced \"Engaging with the Quaker Testimonies: a Toolkit\" in February 2007. In 2013 she gave a James Backhouse Lecture which was published in a book entitled \"A Quaker Astronomer Reflects: Can a Scientist Also Be Religious?\", in which Burnell reflects about how cosmological knowledge can be related to what the Bible, Quakerism or Christian faith states.\n\nIn 1968, soon after her discovery, Bell married Martin Burnell; the couple divorced in 1993 after separating in 1989. Her husband was a local government officer, and his career took them to various parts of Britain. She worked part-time for many years while raising her son, Gavin Burnell, who is a member of the condensed matter physics group at the University of Leeds.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38519505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38519505", "title": "Kapur Singh", "text": "Kapur Singh\n\nSirdar Kapur Singh, ICS (2 March 1909 – 13 August 1986) was an eminent Sikh philosopher, theologian, politician-parliamentarian, and a prolific writer of the twentieth century. As a distinguished linguist he had a mastery over English, Gurmukhi, Persian, Arabic and Sanskrit.\n\nKapur Singh was born in a farming family at village Chakk in the district of Ludhiana. His father's name was Didar Singh. He post-graduated from Government College, Lahore. Later he completed studies in Moral Sciences from Cambridge University.\n\nReturning from UK, Kapur Singh joined the Indian Civil Service (ICS). After serving at a number of administrative posts under the British raj, he was summarily dismissed from service by Chandu Lal Trivedi, the governor of Punjab, shortly after Indian Independence, while he was serving as the deputy commissioner of Kangra district.\n\nKapur Singh was incensed at a circular issued by the government that targeted his community. Kapur Singh filed a protest and made the circular public and invited the wrath of Chandu Lal Divedi, the governor of Punjab. The charges leveled against him were of corruption and insubordination. Kapur Singh fought a protracted legal battle but was not restored to the administrative service.\n\nOn insistence of Akali leaders, Kapur Singh joined the Akali politics. In 1962, he was elected to the 3rd Lok Sabha as a candidate of the Swatantra Party from the Ludhiana constituency. In 1969 Kapur Singh was elected to the Vidhan Sabha in the new Punjab state. He also remained the National Professor of Sikhism.\n\nKapur Singh was a prolific writer. The books written in English by him include Parasaraprasna a classic treatise on Sikhism, The Sacred Writings of the Sikhs (a UNESCO publication), Me Judice (English Miscellany), Contributions of Guru Nanak, The Hour of Sword, Guru Arjan and Sukhmani. Hashish (poems), Saptsaring (Biographies), Bahu Vistaar (Essays), Pudrik (Essays) and Mansur-al-Hallaj (Monograph of a Sufi saint). His works have also been published by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar and Punjabi University, Patiala.\nHe is also believed to have scripted the Anandpur Sahib Resolution of the Akali Dal.\n"}
{"id": "5920999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5920999", "title": "Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal", "text": "Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal\n\nThe Kennedy Institute of Ethics Journal is a quarterly academic journal established in 1991. It is published by the Johns Hopkins University Press on behalf of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics and focuses on questions of bioethics such as those relating to the research of and therapeutic use of human embryonic stem cells, organ donation, and genetic manipulation, as well as issues of global justice, research in the developing world, environmental ethics, food ethics, and issues of governance and expertise in clinical research.\n\nThe current Editor-in-Chief is Rebecca Kukla.\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.129, ranking it 22nd out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "729974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729974", "title": "Kenneth Burke", "text": "Kenneth Burke\n\nKenneth Duva Burke (May 5, 1897 – November 19, 1993) was an American literary theorist, as well as poet, essayist, and novelist, who wrote on 20th-century philosophy, aesthetics, criticism, and rhetorical theory. As a literary theorist, Burke was best known for his analyses based on the nature of knowledge. Furthermore, he was one of the first individuals to stray away from more traditional rhetoric and view literature as \"symbolic action.\"\n\nBurke was unorthodox, concerning himself not only with literary texts, but with the elements of the text that interacted with the audience: social, historical, political background, author biography, etc.\n\nFor his career, Burke has been praised by \"The Johns Hopkins Guide to Literary Theory and Criticism\" as \"one of the most unorthodox, challenging, and theoretically sophisticated American-born literary critics of the twentieth century.\" His work continues to be discussed by rhetoricians and philosophers.\n\nHe was born on May 5 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and graduated from Peabody High School, where his friend Malcolm Cowley was also a student. While he attended Ohio State University to pursue courses in French, German, Greek, and Latin, he later dropped out to move closer to New York City where he enrolled at Columbia University. During his time there, he was a member of the Boar's Head Society. Due to the constraining learning environment, however, Burke also left Columbia, never receiving a college diploma. In Greenwich Village he kept company with avant-garde writers such as Hart Crane, Malcolm Cowley, Gorham Munson, and later Allen Tate. Raised by a Christian Science mother, Burke later became an avowed agnostic.\n\nIn 1919, he married Lily Mary Batterham, with whom he had three daughters: the late feminist, Marxist anthropologist Eleanor Leacock (1922–1987); musician (Jeanne) Elspeth Chapin Hart (b. 1920); and writer and poet France Burke (b. ~1925). He would later marry her sister Elizabeth Batterham in 1933 and have two sons, Michael and Anthony. Burke served as the editor of the modernist literary magazine \"The Dial\" in 1923, and as its music critic from 1927-1929. Kenneth himself was an avid player of the piano. He received the Dial Award in 1928 for distinguished service to American literature. He was the music critic of \"The Nation\" from 1934–1936, and was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1935.\n\nHis work on criticism was a driving force for placing him back into the university spotlight. As a result, he was able to teach and lecture at various colleges, including Bennington College, while continuing his literary work. Many of Kenneth Burke's personal papers and correspondence are housed at Pennsylvania State University's Special Collections Library. However, despite his stint lecturing at Universities, Burke was an autodidact and a self-taught scholar.\n\nIn later life, his New Jersey farm was a popular summer retreat for his extended family, as reported by his grandson Harry Chapin, a contemporary popular song artist. He died of heart failure at his home in Andover, New Jersey.\n\nBurke, like many twentieth century theorists and critics, was heavily influenced by the ideas of Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud, and Friedrich Nietzsche. He was a lifelong interpreter of Shakespeare and was also significantly influenced by Thorstein Veblen. He resisted being pigeonholed as a follower of any philosophical or political school of thought, and had a notable and very public break with the Marxists who dominated the literary criticism set in the 1930s.\n\nBurke corresponded with a number of literary critics, thinkers, and writers over the years, including William Carlos Williams, Malcolm Cowley, Robert Penn Warren, Allen Tate, Ralph Ellison, Albert Murray, Katherine Anne Porter, Jean Toomer, Hart Crane, and Marianne Moore. Later thinkers who have acknowledged Burke's influence include Harold Bloom, Stanley Cavell, J. Hillis Miller, Susan Sontag (his student at the University of Chicago), Erving Goffman, Geoffrey Hartman, Edward Said, René Girard, Fredric Jameson, Michael Calvin McGee, Dell Hymes and Clifford Geertz. Burke was one of the first prominent American critics to appreciate and articulate the importance of Thomas Mann and André Gide; Burke produced the first English translation of \"Death in Venice\", which first appeared in \"The Dial\" in 1924. It is now considered to be much more faithful and explicit than H. T. Lowe-Porter's more famous 1930 translation.\n\nBurke's political engagement is evident—\"A Grammar of Motives\" takes as its epigraph, \"ad bellum purificandum\" (toward the purification of war).\n\nAmerican literary critic Harold Bloom singled out Burke's \"Counterstatement\" and \"A Rhetoric of Motives\" for inclusion in his \"Western Canon\".\n\nBeyond his contemporary influences, Burke took Aristotle's teachings into account while developing his theories on rhetoric. A significant source of his ideas is Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\". Drawing from this work, Burke oriented his writing about language specifically to its social context. Similarly, he studied language as involving more than logical discourse and grammatical structure because he recognized that the social context of language cannot be reduced to principles of pure reason.\n\nBurke draws a line between a Platonic and a more contemporary view of rhetoric, described as \"old rhetoric\" and \"new rhetoric\" respectively. The former is defined by persuasion by any means, while the latter is concerned with \"identification.\" In Burke's use of the word identification he is describing the process by which the speaker associates herself/himself with certain groups, such as a target audience. \nHis idea of \"identification\" is similar to ethos of classical rhetoric, but it also explains the use of logos and pathos in an effort to create a lasting impression on the auditors. This theory differs from ethos most significantly in Burke's conception of artistic communication that he believes is defined by eloquence, which is \"simply the end of art and therefore its essence.\" The use of rhetoric conveys aesthetic and social competence which is why a text can rarely be reduced to purely scientific or political implications, according to Burke. Rhetoric forms our social identity by a series of events usually based on linguistics, but more generally by the use of any symbolic figures. He uses the metaphor of a drama to articulate this point, where interdependent characters speak and communicate with each other while allowing the others to do the same. Also, Burke describes identification as a function of persuasive appeal.\n\nBurke defined rhetoric as the \"use of words by human agents to form attitudes or to induce actions in other human agents.\" His definition builds on the preexisting ideas of how people understand the meaning of rhetoric. Burke describes rhetoric as using words to move people or encourage action. Furthermore, he described rhetoric as being almost synonymous with persuasion (A Rhetoric of Motives, 1950). Burke argued that rhetoric works to bring about change in people. This change can be evident through attitude, motives or intentions as Burke stated but it can also be physical. Calling for help is an act of rhetoric. Rhetoric is symbolic action that calls people to physical action. Ultimately, rhetoric and persuasion become interchangeable words according to Burke. Other scholars have similar definitions of rhetoric. Aristotle argued that rhetoric was a tool for persuading people (but also for gaining information). He stated that rhetoric had the power to persuade people if the speaker knew how. One way in which Aristotle formed his arguments was through syllogism. Another example of how rhetoric was used to persuade was deliberate discourse. Here, politicians and lawyers used speech to pass or reject policies. Sally Gearhart states that rhetoric uses persuasion to induce change. Although she argues persuasion is violent and harmful, she uses it as a tool herself to bring about change.\n\nThe political and social power of \"symbols\" was central to Burke's scholarship throughout his career. He felt that through understanding \"what is involved when we say what people are doing and why they are doing it\", we could gain insight into the cognitive basis for our perception of the world. For Burke, the way in which we decide to narrate gives importance to specific qualities over others. He believed that this could tell us a great deal about how we see the world.\n\nBurke called the social and political rhetorical analysis \"dramatism\" and believed that such an approach to language analysis and language usage could help us understand the basis of conflict, the virtues and dangers of cooperation, and the opportunities of identification and consubstantiality.\n\nBurke defined the rhetorical function of language as \"a symbolic means of inducing cooperation in beings that by nature respond to symbols.\" His definition of humanity states that \"man\" is \"the symbol using, making, and mis-using animal, inventor of the negative, separated from his natural condition by instruments of his own making, goaded by the spirit of hierarchy, and rotten with perfection.\" For Burke, some of the most significant problems in human behavior resulted from instances of symbols using human beings rather than human beings using symbols.\n\nBurke proposed that when we attribute motives to others, we tend to rely on ratios between five elements: act, scene, agent, agency, and purpose. This has become known as the dramatistic pentad. The pentad is grounded in his dramatistic method, which considers human communication as a form of action. Dramatism \"invites one to consider the matter of motives in a perspective that, being developed from the analysis of drama, treats language and thought primarily as modes of action\" (Grammar of Motives xxii). Burke pursued literary criticism not as a formalistic enterprise but rather as an enterprise with significant sociological impact; he saw literature as \"equipment for living,\" offering folk wisdom and common sense to people and thus guiding the way they lived their lives.\n\nThrough the use of dramatism, one can ultimately utilize Burke's Rebirth Cycle. This cycle encompasses three distinct phases, which include: Guilt/Pollution, Purification, and Redemption. Burke introduced the phases and their functionality through the use of a poem. The poem follows, \nHere are the steps\nIn the Iron Law of History That welds Order and Sacrifice \nOrder leads to Guilt\n(For who can keep commandments!) Guilt needs Redemption\n(for who would not be cleaned!) Redemption needs Redeemer (which is to say, a Victim!) \nOrder\nThrough Guilt\nTo Victimage\n(hence: Cult of the Kill)...\" (p. 4-5) \nBurke's poem provides a basis of for the interactions of the three phases. Order's introduction into the life of human enables the creation of guilt. In order to alleviate the results produced by the creation of Guilt, redemption is necessitated. Through the abstraction of redemption, Burke leads to the completion of the cycle.\n\nPollution initially constitutes actions taken by an individual that result in the creation of Guilt. The creation of Guilt occurs upon the rejection of a hierarchy. Challenges to relationships, changes in power, and appropriateness of behaviors to change are each contributing factors toward the formation of Guilt. It is appropriate to draw parallels between the creation of Guilt, and the concept of original sin. Original sin constitutes \"... an offense that cannot be avoided or a condition in which all people share\". Guilt represents the initial action that strips a situation of its perceived purity. The establishment of Guilt necessarily leads to the need to undergo purification to cleanse the individual affected by its recognition. Purification is thus accomplished through two forms of \"ritual purification.\" Mortification and victimage represent the available avenues of purification\n\nStratification within society created by hierarchies allows for marginalization within societies. Marginalization thus is a leading factor in the creation of Guilt, and leads to the need for mortification. Burke stated, \"In an emphatic way, mortification is the exercising of oneself in 'virtue'; it is a systematic way of saying no to Disorder, or obediently saying yes to Order\". Mortification allows an individual's self-sacrifice which consequently enables them to rid themselves of impurities. Purification will only be reached, if it is equal to an individual's degree of guilt. If mortification cannot be reached, individuals will ultimately be forced to project, \"his conflict upon a scapegoat, by 'passing the buck,' by seeking a sacrificial vessel upon which he can vent, as from without, a turmoil that is actually within\". Sacrificial vessels allow for the extermination of an individual's Guilt while enabling them to remain virtuous. \nVictimage is the second form of ritual purification. Burke highlights society's need to rectify division within its ranks. He contended that \"People so dislike the idea of division, their dislike can easily be turned against the man or group who would so much as name it, let alone proposing to act upon it\". Victimage allows for the creation of a scapegoat that serves as a depository of impurities in order to protect against entities that are alien to a particular society. The scapegoat takes on the sins of the impure, thus allowing redemption for the Guilty party. Unfortunately, through the course of these actions the scape goat is harnessed with the sins of the Guilty.\n\nRedemption is reached through one of two options. Tragic redemption revolves around the idea that guilt combines with the principles of perfection and substitution in order that victimage can be utilized. This can be viewed as the \"guilty is removed from the rhetorical community through either scapegoating or mortification\". Comic enlightenment is the second form of redemption. This option allows the sins of the guilty to be adopted by Society as a whole, ultimately making Society guilty by association.\n\nAnother key concept for Burke is the Terministic screen—a \"set\" of symbols that becomes a kind of \"screen\" or grid of intelligibility through which the world makes sense to us. Here Burke offers rhetorical theorists and critics a way of understanding the relationship between language and ideology. Language, Burke thought, doesn't simply \"reflect\" reality; it also helps \"select\" reality as well as \"deflect\" reality. In \"Language as Symbolic Action\" (1966), he writes, \"Even if any given terminology is a \"reflection\" of reality, by its very nature as a terminology it must be a \"selection\" of reality; and to this extent must function also as a \"deflection\" of reality. \nBurke describes terministic screens as reflections of reality—we see these symbols as things that direct our attention to the topic at hand. For example, photos of the same object with different filters each direct the viewer's attention differently, much like how different subjects in academia grab the attention differently. Burke states, \"We must use terministic screens, since we can't say anything without the use of terms; whatever terms we use, they necessarily constitute a corresponding kind of screen; and any such screen necessarily directs the attention to one field rather than another.\" Burke drew not only from the works of Shakespeare and Sophocles, but from films and radio that were important to pop culture, because they were teeming with \"symbolic and rhetorical ingredients.\" We as a people can be cued to accept the screen put in front of us, and mass culture such as TV and websites can be to blame for this. Media today has altered terministic screens, or as Richard Toye wrote in his book \"Rhetoric: A Very Short Introduction\", the \"linguistic filters which cause us to see situations in particular fashions.\" \n\nIn \"Definition of Man\", the first essay of his collection \"Language as Symbolic Action\" (1966), Burke defined humankind as a \"symbol using animal\" (p. 3). This definition of man, he argued, means that \"reality\" has actually \"been built up for us through nothing but our symbol system\" (p. 5). Without our encyclopedias, atlases, and other assorted reference guides, we would know little about the world that lies beyond our immediate sensory experience. What we call \"reality,\" Burke stated, is actually a \"clutter of symbols about the past combined with whatever things we know mainly through maps, magazines, newspapers, and the like about the present . . . a construct of our symbol systems\" (p. 5). College students wandering from class to class, from English literature to sociology to biology to calculus, encounter a new reality each time they enter a classroom; the courses listed in a university's catalogue \"are in effect but so many different terminologies\" (p. 5). It stands to reason then that people who consider themselves to be Christian, and who internalize that religion's symbol system, inhabit a reality that is different from the one of practicing Buddhists, or Jews, or Muslims. The same would hold true for people who believe in the tenets of free market capitalism or socialism, Freudian psychoanalysis or Jungian depth psychology, as well as mysticism or materialism. Each belief system has its own vocabulary to describe how the world works and what things mean, thus presenting its adherents with a specific reality (no page reference).\n\nBurke's poetry appears in four collections: \"Book of Moments\" (1955), \"Collected Poems 1915–1967\" (1968), the posthumously published \"The Late Poems: 1968-1993 Attitudinizings Verse-wise, While Fending for One's Selph, and in a Style Somewhat Artificially Colloquial\" (2005), and \"Here & Elsewhere: The Collected Fiction of Kenneth Burke\" (2005).\n\nHis other principal works are\n\nHe also wrote the song \"One Light in a Dark Valley,\" later recorded by his grandson Harry Chapin.\n\nBurke's most notable correspondence is collected in:\n\nKenneth Burke was awarded the National Medal for Literature at the American Book Awards in 1981. According to the New York Times, April 20, 1981, 'The $15,000 award, endowed in memory of the late Harold Guinzberg, founder of the Viking Press, honors a living American writer \"for a distinguished and continuing contribution to American letters.\" '\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54237963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54237963", "title": "Kristi Sweet", "text": "Kristi Sweet\n\nKristi E. Sweet (born 1976) is an American philosopher and associate professor of philosophy at Texas A&M University. She is known for her expertise on Kantian philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53422404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53422404", "title": "Lisa Guenther", "text": "Lisa Guenther\n\nLisa Guenther is a Canadian philosopher and activist, known for her efforts to take philosophy into extraordinary settings. Guenther's work takes up solitary confinement, prison torture, reproductive injustice, and the carceral state.\n\nCross-appointed to the Department of Philosophy and the Graduate Program in Cultural Studies, Lisa Guenther is currently Queen’s National Scholar in Political Philosophy and Critical Prison Studies at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. Prior to 2018, she served as Associate Professor of Philosophy at Vanderbilt University. Her first academic position was at the University of Auckland. Guenther received a bachelor's degree from Bishop's University, and doctorate from University of Toronto. \n\nGuenther specializes in feminist philosophy, phenomenology, and political philosophy. Her book has been described by the Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews as \"a liberation manifesto in struggles against captivity\".\n\nGuenther's work with inmates on death row in Riverbend maximum security prison in Nashville has received considerable media attention. In her interview with The Boston Review she describes her efforts as being grounded in a new understanding of what philosophy is: \"I now approach philosophy as a radical democratic practice of collective sense-making.\" The Chronicle of Higher Education in its profile of Guenther called her \"radical advocate for prison reform.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2799070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2799070", "title": "Matenadaran", "text": "Matenadaran\n\nThe Mesrop Mashtots Institute of Ancient Manuscripts ( (\"Mesrop Mashtots'i anvan hin dzeragreri institut\")), commonly referred to as the Matenadaran (), is a repository of ancient manuscripts, research institute and museum in Yerevan, Armenia. It holds one of the world's richest depositories of medieval manuscripts and books which span a broad range of subjects, including theology, philosophy, history, medicine, literature, art history, and cosmography in Armenian and many other languages.\n\nThe earliest mention of the term \"matenadaran\", which means \"repository of manuscripts\" in Armenian, was recorded in the writings of the fifth century A.D. historian Ghazar Parpetsi, who noted the existence of such a repository at Etchmiadzin Cathedral, where Greek and Armenian language texts were kept. After that, however, the sources remain largely silent on its status.\n\nThousands of manuscripts in Armenia were destroyed over the course of the tenth to fifteenth centuries during the Turkic-Mongol invasions. According to the medieval Armenian historian Stepanos Orbelian, the Seljuk Turks were responsible for the burning of over 10,000 Armenian manuscripts in Baghaberd in 1170. In 1441, the \"matenadaran\" in Sis, the capital of the former Cilician Kingdom of Armenia, was moved to Etchmiadzin and other nearby monasteries. As a result of Armenia being a constant battleground between two major powers, the Matenadaran in Etchmiadzin was pillaged several times, the last of which took place in 1804. \n\nEastern Armenia's incorporation into the Russian Empire in the first third of the nineteenth century provided a more stable climate for the preservation of the remaining manuscripts. Thus, \"a new era started for the Etchmiadzin Matenadaran. The Armenian cultural workers procured new manuscripts and put them in order with more confidence.\" Whereas in 1828 the curators of the Matenadaran catalogued a collection of only 1,809 manuscripts, in 1914 the collection had increased to 4,660 manuscripts. At the outbreak of World War I, all the manuscripts were sent to Moscow for safekeeping and were kept there for the duration of the war.\n\nOn December 17, 1920, the collection of books and manuscripts held at the headquarters of the Armenian Apostolic Church at Etchmiatzin was confiscated by the Bolsheviks. In a decree issued by Alexander Miasnikyan on March 6, 1922, the manuscripts that had been sent to Moscow were ordered to be returned to Armenia. Combined with other collections, they were declared a property of the state on December 17, 1929. In 1939, the collection was moved to Yerevan and stored at the Alexander Miasnikyan State Library. Finally, on March 3, 1959, the Council of Ministers of the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic voted in support of the establishment of a repository to maintain and house the manuscripts in a new building, which was named after Saint Mesrop Mashtots, the creator of the Armenian alphabet, in 1962. In 1954, Armenian academician Levon Khachikyan was appointed as the Matenadaran's director.\n\nThe Matenadaran was designed by architect Mark Grigoryan. Located to the north of the city's center, at the foot of a small hill, construction began in 1945 and completed in 1957. The exterior was constructed of basalt but parts of the interior were made of other materials such as marble. In the 1960s, the statues of historical Armenian scholars, Toros Roslin, Grigor Tatevatsi, Anania Shirakatsi, Movses Khorenatsi, Mkhitar Gosh and Frik, were erected on the left and right wings of the building's exterior. The statues of Mesrop Mashots and his pupil are located below the terrace where the main building stands.\n\nOn May 14, 2009, upon the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of the Matenadaran, Armenian state and religious officials conducted the groundbreaking ceremony of the construction of a research institute being built adjacent to the Matenadaran. The construction was finished in 2011 by architect Arthur Meschian, who had started working on the design of the new building at the end of the 1980s.\n\nThe Matenadaran's main objectives are first and foremost the 1) preservation, restoration, and reproduction of the manuscripts; 2) their procurement; 3) the organization and cataloging of Armenian manuscripts; and 4) the distribution and publication of particularly historically significant Armenian manuscripts in languages asides from Armenian. In 1941, it began publishing its official periodical, \"Banber Matenadarani\" (\"The Matenadaran Herald\") which are accompanied with Russian and French abstracts.\n\nThe Matenadaran is in possession of a collection of nearly 17,000 manuscripts and 30,000 other documents which cover a wide array of subjects such as theology, philosophy, historiography and history, geography, grammar, art and art history, medicine and science. In the first decades of Soviet rule, its collection was largely drawn from manuscripts stored in ecclesiastical structures in the historic regions of Vaspurakan (eastern Turkey, Van region) and Taron (Northeastern Turkey), in schools, monasteries and churches in Armenia and the rest of the Soviet Union (such as those located in New Nakhichevan and the Nersisyan Seminary in Tbilisi), the Lazarev Institute of Oriental Languages in Moscow, from the Armenian Apostolic Church's Primacy in Tabriz, the village of Darashamb in Iran, as well as the personal collections given by private donors. In addition to the Matenadaran's Armenian manuscripts, there is a vast collection of historical documents numbering over 2,000 in languages such as Arabic, Persian, Hebrew, Japanese and Russian. The Mashtots Matenadaran Ancient Manuscripts Collection was inscribed on UNESCO's Memory of the World Programme Register in 1997 in recognition of its world significance.\n\nThe Armenian collection at the Matenadaran is abundantly rich in manuscripts dealing in all fields of the humanities, but particularly historiography and theology/philosophy. The writings of classical and medieval historians Movses Khorenatsi, Yeghishe and Aristakes Lastivertsi are preserved here, as are the legal, philosophical and theological writings of other notable Armenian figures. The preserved writings of Grigor Narekatsi and Nerses Shnorhali at the Matenadaran form the cornerstone of medieval Armenian literature.\n\nThe Armenian collection is also composed of 2,500 Armenian illuminated manuscripts, which include such prominent examples as the Echmiadzin Gospel (989) and the Mugni Gospels (1060). Another prominent manuscript in the collection is the Homilies of Mush, written in the years 1200-1202 A.D. in the Avak Monastery in Yerzenka (modern-day Erzincan, Turkey), which measures 55.3 cm by 70.5 cm (21.8 inches by 27.8 inches), weighs 27.5 kg (60.6 lbs.), and contains 603 calf skin parchment pages. The book was found by two Armenian women in a deserted Armenian monastery in the Ottoman Empire during World War I and the Armenian Genocide period. Since it was found to be too heavy to be carried, it was split into two: one half was wrapped in a cloth and buried, while the second half was taken to Georgia. A couple of years later, a Polish officer found the first half and sold it to an officer in Baku. It was eventually brought to Armenia and the two halves were finally reunited.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54668780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54668780", "title": "Modal metaphysics", "text": "Modal metaphysics\n\nModal metaphysics is a branch of philosophy that investigates the metaphysics underlying statements about possible or \"a-priori\" statements.\n"}
{"id": "42851201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42851201", "title": "Muhammad Taqi Amoli", "text": "Muhammad Taqi Amoli\n\nMuhammad Taqi Amoli (1887-1971) was an Iranian Shiite jurist, philosopher and mystic.\n\nAyatollah Sheikh Muhammad Taqi (1887–1971) was born in Tehran. His father was Mulla Muhammad Amoli. They were the relatives of Hakim Mirza Abul-Hasan Jelveh.\n\n\n\nMany books in different subjects such as philosophy, jurisprudence and theology were written by Ayatollah Sheikh Muhammad Taqi. Some of them are as below:\n\nHe died in 1971 in Tehran and the shrine of Ali al-Ridha tomb in the garden of Ridvan Sabzevar (son of Mirza Musa Mirza Hossein Sabzevari) buried.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41288440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41288440", "title": "Nihon Gaishi", "text": "Nihon Gaishi\n\nThe Nihon Gaishi (日本外史) is a 19th-century book on the history of Japan by Rai San'yo. The whole work comprises 22 scrolls.\n\n"}
{"id": "407530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=407530", "title": "Olympe de Gouges", "text": "Olympe de Gouges\n\nOlympe de Gouges (; 7 May 1748 – 3 November 1793), born Marie Gouze, was a French playwright and political activist whose feminist and abolitionist writings reached a large audience.\n\nShe began her career as a playwright in the early 1780s. As political tension rose in France, Olympe de Gouges became increasingly politically engaged. She became an outspoken advocate against the slave trade in the French colonies in 1788. At the same time, she began writing political pamphlets. Today she is perhaps best known as an early feminist who demanded that French women be given the same rights as French men. In her \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\" (1791), she challenged the practice of male authority and the notion of male-female inequality. She was executed by guillotine during the Reign of Terror (1793–1794) for attacking the regime of the Revolutionary government and for her association with the Girondists.\n\nMarie Gouze was born into a petit bourgeois family in 1748 in Montauban, Quercy (in the present-day department of Tarn-et-Garonne), in southwestern France. She believed that she was the illegitimate daughter of Jean-Jacques Lefranc, Marquis de Pompignan. Her mother afforded her a bourgeois education.\n\nIn 1765 aged 16 she was married against her will to Louis Aubry, a caterer. Gouges said in a semi-autobiographical novel (\"\"), \"I was married to a man I did not love and who was neither rich nor well-born. I was sacrificed for no reason that could make up for the repugnance I felt for this man.\" Her husband died a year later, and in 1770 she moved to Paris with her son to live with her sister. She never married again, calling the institution of marriage \"the tomb of trust and love\".\n\nIn Paris she started a relationship with the wealthy Jacques Biétrix de Rozières, but refused his marriage proposal. She remained close to Rozières throughout the French Revolution. With the support of Rozières she established a theatre company. Gouges attended the artistic and philosophical ' of Paris, where she met many writers, including La Harpe, Mercier, and Chamfort, as well as future politicians such as Brissot and Condorcet. She usually was invited to the ' of Madame de Montesson and the Comtesse de Beauharnais, who also were playwrights. She also was associated with Masonic Lodges, among them the \"Loge des Neuf Sœurs\" that was created by her friend Michel de Cubières.\n\nIn 1788 she published \"Réflexions sur les hommes négres\", which demanded compassion for the plight of slaves in the French colonies. For Gouges there was a direct link between the autocratic monarchy in France and the institution of slavery, she argued that “Men everywhere are equal… Kings who are just do not want slaves; they know that they have submissive subjects.” She came to the public's attention with the play \"l'Esclavage des Noirs\", which was staged at the famous Comédie-Française in 1785. Her stance against the slavery in the French colonies made her the target of threats. Gouges was also attacked by those who thought that a woman's proper place was not in the theatre. The influential Abraham-Joseph Bénard remarked \"Mme de Gouges is one of those women to whom one feels like giving razor blades as a present, who through their pretensions lose the charming qualities of their sex... Every woman author is in a false position, regardless of her talent\". Gouges was defiant, she wrote \"I'm determined to be a success, and I'll do it in spite of my enemies.\" The slave trade lobby had mounted a press campaign against her play and she eventually took legal action, forcing Comédie-Française to stage \"l'Esclavage des Noirs\". But the play closed after three performances; the lobby had paid hecklers to sabotage the performances.\n\nA passionate advocate of human rights, Gouges greeted the outbreak of the Revolution with hope and joy, but soon became disenchanted when \"\" (equal rights) was not extended to women. In 1791 Gouges became part of the Society of the Friends of Truth, also called the \"Social Club,\" an association with the goal of equal political and legal rights for women. Members sometimes gathered at the home of the well-known women's rights advocate, Sophie de Condorcet. Here Gouges expressed, for the first time, her famous statement:\n\nIn 1791, in response to the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\", she wrote the ' (\"\"). This was followed by her ' (\",\" named after a famous work of Jean-Jacques Rousseau), proposing marriage based upon gender equality.\n\nIn 1790 and 1791, in the French colony of Saint-Domingue (present-day Haiti), free people of colour and African slaves revolted in response to the ideals expressed in the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\". Gouges did not approve of violent revolution, and published \"l'Esclavage des Noirs\" with a preface in 1792, arguing that the slaves and the free people who responded to the horrors of slavery with \"barbaric and atrocious torture\" in turn justified the behaviour of the tyrants. In Paris Gouges was accused of having incited the insurrection in Saint-Domingue with the play. When it was staged again in December 1792 a riot erupted in Paris.\n\nGouges opposed the execution of Louis XVI of France (which took place on 21 January 1793), partly out of opposition to capital punishment and partly because she favored constitutional monarchy. This earned her the ire of many hard-line republicans, even into the next generation—such as the 19th-century historian Jules Michelet, a fierce apologist for the Revolution, who wrote, \"She allowed herself to act and write about more than one affair that her weak head did not understand.\" Michelet opposed any political participation by women and thus disliked Gouges. In December 1792, when Louis XVI was about to be put on trial, she wrote to the National Assembly offering to defend him, causing outrage among many deputies. In her letter she argued that he had been duped–that he was guilty as a king, but innocent as a man, and that he should be exiled rather than executed.\n\nGouges was associated with the Gironde party, who like her favoured a constitutional monarchy. After the execution of Louis XVI she became wary of Robespierre's Montagnard fraction and in open letters criticised their violence and summary assassinations.\n\nAs the Revolution progressed, she became more and more vehement in her writings. On 2 June 1793, the Jacobins arrested prominent Girondins, imprisoned them, and sent them to the guillotine in October. Finally, her poster \" (\") of 1793, led to her arrest. That piece demanded a plebiscite for a choice among three potential forms of government: the first, a unitary republic, the second, a federalist government, or the third, a constitutional monarchy.\n\nAfter her arrest, the commissioners searched her house for evidence. When they could not find any in her home, she voluntarily led them to the storehouse where she kept her papers. It was there that the commissioners found an unfinished play titled \" (\"\"). In the first act (only the first act and a half remain), Marie-Antoinette is planning defence strategies to retain the crumbling monarchy and is confronted by revolutionary forces, including Gouges herself. The first act ends with Gouges reproving the queen for having seditious intentions and lecturing her about how she should lead her people. Both Gouges and her prosecutor used this play as evidence in her trial. The prosecutor claimed that Gouges' depictions of the queen threatened to stir up sympathy and support for the Royalists, whereas Gouges stated that the play showed that she had always been a supporter of the Revolution.\n\nShe spent three months in jail without an attorney, trying to defend herself. The presiding judge denied Gouges her legal right to a lawyer on the grounds that she was more than capable of representing herself. It seems as though the judge based this argument on Gouges' tendency to represent herself in her writings. Through her friends, she managed to publish two texts: ' (\"), in which she related her interrogations; and her last work, ' (\"), in which she condemned the Terror.\n\nHer son Pierre Aubry was suspended from his office as vice-general and head of battalion after her arrest. Gouges had acquired the position for him by paying 1,500 livres. On the 2 November 1793 she wrote to him: \"I die, my dear son, a victim of my idolatry for the fatherland and for the people. Under the specious mask of republicanism, her enemies have brought me remorselessly to the scaffold.\"\n\nOn 3 November 1793 the Jacobins sentenced her to death and executed her for seditious behaviour and for attempting to reinstate the monarchy. Olympe was executed only a month after Condorcet had been proscribed, and just three days after the Girondin leaders had been guillotined. Her body was disposed of in the Madeleine Cemetery. Olympe's last moments were depicted by an anonymous Parisian who kept a chronicle of events:\n\"Yesterday, at seven o'clock in the evening, a most extraordinary person called Olympe de Gouges who held the imposing title of woman of letters, was taken to the scaffold, while all of Paris, while admiring her beauty, knew that she didn't even know her alphabet... She approached the scaffold with a calm and serene expression on her face, and forced the guillotine's furies, which had driven her to this place of torture, to admit that such courage and beauty had never been seen before... That woman... had thrown herself in the Revolution, body and soul. But having quickly perceived how atrocious the system adopted by the Jacobins was, she chose to retrace her steps. She attempted to unmask the villains through the literary productions which she had printed and put up. They never forgave her, and she paid for her carelessness with her head.\"\n\nHer execution was used as a warning to other politically active women. At the 15 November 1793 meeting of the Commune, Pierre Gaspard Chaumette cautioned a group of women wearing Phrygian bonnets, reminding them: \"the impudent Olympe de Gouges, who was the first woman to start up women's political clubs, who abandoned the cares of her home, to meddle in the affairs of the Republic, and whose head fell under avenging blade of the law\". This posthumous characterisation of Gouges by the political establishment was misleading, as Gouges had no role in founding the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women. In her political writings Gouges had not called for women to abandon their homes, but she was cast by the politicians as an enemy of the natural order, and thus enemy of the ruling Jacobin party. Paradoxically, the two women who had started the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women, Claire Lacombe and Pauline Léon were not executed. Lacombe, Léon and Theroigne de Mericourt had spoken at women's and mixed clubs, and the Assemblée, while Gouges had shown a reluctance to engage in public speaking, but prolifically published pamphlets. However, Chaumette was a staunch opponent of the Girondins, and had characterised Gouges as unnatural and unrepublican prior to her execution.\n\n1793 has been described as a watershed for the construction of women's place in revolutionary France, and the deconstruction of the Girondins' Marianne. That year a number of women with a public role in politics were executed, including Madame Roland and Marie-Antoinette. The new \"Républicaine\" was the republican mother that nurtured the new citizen. While politically active women were executed the Convention banned all women's political associations. 1793 marked the start of the Reign of Terror in post-revolutionary France, where thousands of people were executed. Across the Atlantic world observers of the French Revolution were shocked, but the ideals of liberté, égalité, fraternité had taken a life of their own.\n\nGouges' Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen had been widely reproduced and influenced the writings of women's advocates in the Atlantic world. One year after its publication, in 1792, the keen observer of the French Revolution Mary Wollstonecraft published Vindication of the Rights of Woman. Writings on women and their lack of rights became widely available. The experience of French women during the revolution entered the collective consciousness. The anti-imperial Irish Rebellion of 1798 was whipped up by Anglo-Irish women such as Maria Edgeworth, but the quest of Catholics for political rights was brutally suppressed by the British military.\n\nAmerican women began to refer to themselves as \"citess\" or \"citizeness\" and took to the streets to achieve equality and freedom. The same year Gouges was executed the pamphlet \"On the Marriage of Two Celebrated Widows\" was published anonymously, proclaiming that \"two celebrated widows, ladies of America and France, after having repudiated their husbands on account of their ill treatment, conceived of the design of living together in the strictest union and friendship.\" Revolutionary novels were published that put women at the centre of violent struggle, such as the narratives written by Helen Maria Williams and Leonora Sansay. At the 1848 Women's Rights Convention at Seneca Falls, the rhetorical style of the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\" was employed to paraphrase the Declaration of Independence into the \"Declaration of Sentiments\", which demanded women’s' right to vote.\n\nAfter her execution her son Pierre Aubry signed a letter, denying his endorsement for her political legacy. He tried to change her name in the records, to Marie Aubry, but the name she had given herself has endured. Although she was a celebrity in her lifetime and a prolific author, Gouges became largely forgotten, but then rediscovered through a political biography by Olivier Blanc in the mid 1980s.\n\nOn 6 March 2004, the junction of the Rues Béranger, Charlot, de Turenne, and de Franche-Comté in Paris was proclaimed the Place Olympe de Gouges. The square was inaugurated by the mayor of the 3rd arrondissement, Pierre Aidenbaum, along with then first deputy mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo. The actress Véronique Genest read an excerpt from the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman\". 2007 French presidential contender Ségolène Royal expressed the wish that Gouges' remains be moved to the Panthéon. However, her remains—like those of the other victims of the Reign of Terror—have been lost through burial in communal graves, so any reburial (like that of Marquis de Condorcet) would be only ceremonial.\n\nBorn Marie Gouze she first adopted the name Olympe de Gouges for her early plays. As a woman from the province and of lowly birth she fashioned herself to fit in with the Paris establishment. Gouges signed her public letters with \"citoyenne\", the feminised version of citizen. In pre-revolutionary France there were no citizens, an author was the subject of the king. But in revolutionary France there were only \"citoyen\". It was only in October 1792 that the Convention decreed the use of \"citoyenne\" to replace \"Madame\" and \"Mademoiselle\".\n\nGouges penned more than 30 plays, often with a socially critical theme. Among others she wrote plays on the slave trade, divorce, marriage, debtors' prisons, children's rights, and government work schemes for the unemployed. As a playwright she charged into the contemporary political controversies and she was often in the vanguard. \nHer 1788 pamphlet \"Reflections on blacks\" and the play \"l'Esclavage des Noirs\" on the slave trade made her, alongside Marquis de Condorcet, one of France's earliest public opponents of slavery. In the final act of \"l'Esclavage des Noirs\" Gouges lets the French colonial master, not the slave, utter a prayer for freedom: “Let our common rejoicings be a happy portent of liberty”. She drew a parallel between colonial slavery and political oppression in France. One of the slave protagonist explains that the French must gain their own freedom, before they can deal with slavery. Gouges also openly attacked the notion that human rights were a reality in revolutionary France. The slave protagonist comments on the situation in France “The power of one Master alone is in the hands of a thousand Tyrants who trample the People under foot. The People will one day burst their chains and will claim all its rights under Natural law. It will teach the Tyrants just what a people united by long oppression and enlightened by sound philosophy can do.” While it was common in France to equate political oppression to slavery, this was an analogy and not an abolitionist sentiment.\n\nIn November 1788 she published her first political brochure, a manifesto entitled \"Letter to the people, or project for a patriotic fund\". In early 1789 she published \"Patriotic remarks\" setting out her proposals for social security, care for the elderly, institutions for homeless children, hostels for unemployed, and the introduction of a jury system. She also called upon women to \"shake off the yoke of shameful slavery\". The same year she wrote a series of pamphlets on a range of social concerns, such as illegitimate children. In these pamphlets she advanced the public debate on issues that would later be picked up by feminists, such as Flora Tristan. She continued to publish political essays between 1788 and 1791. Such as \"Cry of the wise man, by a woman\" in response to Louis XVI calling together the Estates-General\".\n\nGouges wrote her famous \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\" shortly after the French Constitution of 1791 was ratified by King Louis XVI, and dedicated it to his wife, Queen Marie Antoinette. The French Constitution marked the birth of the short-lived constitutional monarchy and implemented a status based citizenship. Citizens were defined as men over 25, were \"independent\" and had paid the poll tax. These citizens had the right to vote. Furthermore active citizenship was two-tiered, with those who could vote and those who were fit for public office. Women were by definition not afforded any rights of active citizenship. Like men who could not pay the poll tax, children, domestic servants, rural day-laborers and slaves, Jews, actors and hangmen, women had no political rights. In transferring sovereignty to the nation the constitution dismantled the old regime, but Gouges argued that it did not go far enough.\n\nGouges was not the only feminists who attempted to influence the political structures of late Enlightenment France. But like the writings of Etta Palm d'Aelders, Theroigne de Mericourt, Claire Lacombe and Marquis de Condorcet, her arguments fell on deaf ears. At the end of the 18th century influential political actors such as Honoré Gabriel Riqueti, Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord and Emmanuel Joseph Sieyès were not convinced of the case for equality.\n\nIn her early political letters Gouges made a point of being a woman, and that she spoke \"as a woman\". She addressed her public letters, published often as pamphlets, to statesmen such as Jacques Necker, the Duke of Orléans, or the queen Marie-Antoinette. Like other pamphlet writers in revolutionary France, she spoke from the margins and spoke of her experience as a citizen, with a desire to influence the ongoing public debate. In her letters she articulated the values of the Enlightenment, and commented on how they may be put into practice, such as civic virtue, universal rights, natural rights and political rights. In language and practice this was a debate among men and about men. Republicans discussed civic virtue in terms of patriotic manliness (\"la vertu mâle et répub-licaine\"). Women were not granted political rights in revolutionary France, thus Gouges used her pamphlets to enter the public debate and she argued that the debate needed to include the female civic voice.\n\nGouges signed her pamphlets with \"citoyenne\". It has been suggested that she adopted this notion from Rousseau's letter \"To the Republic of Geneva\", where he speaks directly to two types of Genevans: the \"dear fellow citizens\" or his \"brothers\", and the \"aimables et virtueeses Citoyenne\", that is the women citizens. In the public letter \"Remarques Patriotique\" from December 1788 Gouges justified why she is publishing her political thoughts, arguing that \"This dream, strange though it may seem, will show the nation a truly civic heart, a spirit that is always concerned with the public good\".\n\nAs the politics of revolutionary France changed and progressed Gouges failed to become an actor on the political stage, but in her letters offered advice to the political establishment. Her proposition for a political order remained largely unchanged. She expresses faith in the Estates General and in reference to the estates of the realm, that the people of France (Third Estate) would be able to ensure harmony between the three estates, that is clergy, nobility and the people. Despite this she expresses loyalty for the ministers Jacques Necker and Charles Alexandre de Calonne. Gouges opposes absolutism, but believed France should retain a constitutional monarchy.\n\nIn her open letter to Marie-Antoinette, Gouges declared:\n\n\"I could never convince myself that a princess, raised in the midst of grandeur, had all the vices of baseness... Madame, may a nobler function characterize you, excite your ambition, and fix your attention. Only one whom chance had elevated to an eminent position can assume the task of lending weight to the progress of the Rights of Woman and of hastening its success. If you were less well informed, Madame, I might fear that your individual interests would outweigh those of your sex. You love glory; think, Madame, the greatest crimes immortalize one as much as the greatest virtues, but what a different fame in the annals of history! The one is ceaselessly taken as an example, and the other is eternally the execration of the human race.\"\n\nPublic letters, or pamphlets, were the primary means for the working class and women writers to engage in the public debate of revolutionary France. The intention was not to court the favour of the addressee, often a public figure. Frequently these pamphlets were intended to stir up public anger. They were widely circulated within and outside France. Gouges' contemporary Madame Roland of the Gironde party became notorious for her \"Letter to Louis XVI\" in 1792. In the same year Gouges penned \"Letter to Citizen Robespierre\", which Robespierre refused to answer. Gouges took to the street, and on behalf of the French people proclaimed \"Let us plunge into the Seine! Thou hast need of a bath... thy death will claim things, and as for myself, the sacrifice of a pure life will disarm the heavens.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49699377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49699377", "title": "Qene", "text": "Qene\n\nQene also known as Säm əna Wärq is a unique style of poetry from Ethiopia that is rich and deep in meaning, which demands critical thinking and analysis of the poetry to understand its meaning. It demands having not only a strong Amharic, Tigrigna, or Ge’ez vocabulary, but also familiarity with the culture from where the particular poem originates or the background against which it was written.\n\nIt is believed that Saint Yared is the originator of Qəne. Since most of Saint Yared’s works are based on the Bible, thus it can be assumed that the Bible is the original source of Qəne composition. Some parts of the Bible such as the Psalms and the Song of Songs (Song of Solomon) are written in poetry form. Some books of the Bible such as the Song of Songs and the teachings (sermons) of Jesus use a lot of metaphorical and allegorical language similar to the Säm əna Wärq mode of Qəne. Saint Yared’s non-sparing use of the content and style of the Bible helped in making his compositions acceptable and popular. Some of his compositions are still used as prayers in their original form.\n\nAlthough Saint Yared was the earliest composer of Qəne, he does not appear to have set the forms and meters for the genre. There are, in fact, several possible candidates deemed responsible. One possibility lies with Qəne scholars during the reign of Emperor Eskender (1478-1494) - Hawira, Menkera, Eskendera, Poeskenedera and Abidira. Another explanation – commonly referred to as the Wadla claim – attributes it to an early 15th-century scholar from Wadla named Yohannəs Geblawi. And then there is the Gonj claim - attributing the deed to a certain Täwanäy who flourished after the 15th century. Täwanäy is alleged to have learned his Qəne alongside Wäldä Mariam from a certain Eliab, who in turn learned it from alongside Lehib from Sämrä Ab, who in turn learned it from Yohannəs Geblawi.\n\nOral traditions also mention a certain Däqä Est’ifa as the scholar responsible for setting the meters for Qəne. Däqä Est’ifa is alleged to have acquired seven crafts from Greece - six having to do with magic, and the seventh Qəne - and returned to Ethiopia during the reign of Emperor Bä'edä Mariam (1468-1478). He is then said to have taught the seventh craft to Prince Eskinder, Hawira, Menkera, Behur, and another Eskinder.\n\nDäqä Est’ifa was quite popular at his former pupil Emperor Eskinder's court. One tradition claims he seduced the Emperor's wife and used one of his other crafts to vanish with her. Shortly thereafter, the Emperor set fire to the house Däqä Est’ifa and the Empress were hiding in. However, Däqä Est’ifa allegedly used another of his crafts to again disappear with his lover - and is said to still roam the island.\n\nYohannəs Geblawi, in contrast to Däqä Est’ifa's worldly crafts, is said to have acquired his Qəne during a spiritual meditation. Yohannəs was born at Geblon in Wadla (Lasta), and flourished at the time of Emperor Zar'a Yacob (1434-1468). He and is said to have taught near Mount Tabor at Amara Saynt. Yohannes taught Qəne to the monk Aba Wäldä Gabriel, who in turn taught Sämrä Kristos (Sämrä Ab). Sämrä Kristos (Sämrä Ab) is said to have given Emperor Bä'edä Mariam (1468-1478) Qəne lessons. He also taught Lehib and Eliab, the latter of whom taught Qəne to Täwanäy and Dədəq Wäldä Mariam.\n\nEmperor Be'ede Mariam was so taken by the art of Qəne that he is said, on the advice of his teacher Sämrä Kristos, to have gone into a week-long meditation to determine its origin. The answer was revealed to him on the festival of the changing of water unto wine (Qana ZeGelila), when he composed the following Qəne by divine inspiration,\n\nAs Be'ede Mariam's Qəne was composed during a gathering (Gubae) at the festival of Qana ZeGelila, its form and meter has been known as Gubaʾe Qana. Sämrä Kristos was then said to have composed a Zäʾämlakəye Qəne, after which the Emperor composed a Mibäzhu Qəne - the tradition claims.\n\nOne tradition also claims Täwanäy as Däqä Est’ifa's student. However, Däqä Est’ifa flourished during the reign of Emperor Eskender - a period when third generation disciples of Yohannes Geblawi also taught. This casts into doubt the alleged role of Däqä Est’ifa as the originator of Qəne - as the line of Yohannes Geblawi would have precedence. Furthermore, the more than fifty years that span between Däqä Est’ifa and Täwanäy would make it hard to take the latter as a disciple. Moreover, other accounts put Täwanäy's time at the early 18th century.\n\nAccordingly, along the Qəne line of Yohannes Geblawi, Sämrä Ab taught Lehib and Eliab. Eliab, in turn, taught Dədəq Wäldä Mariam and Täwanäy. Tradition also holds that due to unfavorable conditions caused by the wars of Ahmad Gragn (mid-16th century), Dədəq Wäldä Mariam and Täwanäy formed two separate Qəne styles - the Wadla and the Gonj schools, respectively.\n\nAnother interesting tradition holds that both disciples made the trip to Däq Island to further their knowledge. While Dədəq Wäldä Mariam chanced upon mystical teachers that helped him further his Qəne, Täwanäy had no such luck. Instead, he fell into the carnal snares of mystical women who thwarted his many attempts to escape. When he turned into an eagle and tried to fly away, they would turn into pebbles and stone him. When he turned into a worm to wiggle his way off the island, they would turn into chickens and peck at him. He finally managed to escape by turning into a flea and attaching himself to a sack of Gesho leaves destined for sale on the mainland! Perhaps the notion of Täwanäy as the disciple of Däqä Est’ifa stems from his legendary exploits at Däq Island.\n\nThe same tradition claims that by the time Täwanäy escaped from Däq, he had only retained a fraction of what Eliab had taught him. Hence, the Gonj school of Qəne associated with Täwanäy stresses Qəne composition, but only fleetingly covers Ge'ez verb conjugation and syntax - whereas the Wadla school associated with Dədəq Wäldä Mariam teaches all these elements. The Wadla school was led by a succession of seven teachers - all with the title Dədəq - the last of whom was also named Dədəq Wäldä Mariam. He was succeeded by Ma'ibel Wäldä Hiwot (MeCha), who was then succeeded by Aleka Getahun (Gete Amoraw). The other disciple of Sämrä Kristos, Lehib, taught Qəne to Zetre Wengel - who was succeeded by Zikri. He was in turn succeeded by Bekuru, and followed by Yonathan, who taught ZeNebiyat and QaleAwadi. Qale Awadi was succeeded by Aleka Maru of Amhara Sayint, who then taught Aqabe Se'at Kabte of Gonder.\n\nNevertheless, the multiplicity of Qəne lines of transmission does not imply multiple origins for Qəne. Saint Yared remains to be held as the founder of Qəne. Moreover, the many schools of Qəne can be seen in parallel to the various types of musical notations (such as Bethleheme, Qome, WenChere, AChabre, Wadle and Tegulete schools) that developed out of Saint Yared's Deggwa.\n\nTraditionally any metrical verse with a rhyming scheme is defined as a poem, and since Qəne fulfills these requirements it can be considered to be a poem. However, while most poems have literal meaning, Qəne has to have a literal as well as a symbolic meaning by using the mode of Säm əna Wärq. One can say that all Qəne are poems, but not all poems can be Qəne. Qəne is different in that a profound idea can be veiled underneath an every-day idea through the mode of Säm əna Wärq (i.e. metaphorical representation). \nSince Qəne is sung as a hymn at a church service, one has to adhere to a standard metrical pattern. The different types of Qəne have their own metrical pattern. The measure for the types of Qəne is not only numbers of verse but the syllabic metrical pattern as well. Thus, even though a poem uses a mode of Säm əna Wärq, unless it follows a certain metrical pattern it can’t be classified as a Qəne.\n\nThe poem has two Wärq phrases, the former is about the harlot and the latter warns about being destroyed by promiscuity. Even with such complex mode of Säm əna Wärq, the author called it a poem and not a Qəne. Thus we can see that Qəne has a much complex character than a poem.\n\nMost Qənes are composed in Ge’ez, and most students at Qəne school start their education by learning the basics of the Gəʾəz language. Most Qənes are composed in Gəʾəz since Qəne rules regarding the Säm əna Wärq mode and metrical pattern are set up for the Gəʾəz language. But once we follow the right metrical pattern and rules of metaphor, one can compose Qəne in other languages. For Example in Amharic, Afaan Oromo, English …etc. This is evident in the advent of Guramayle Qəne (a blend of Gəʾəz and Amharic) and Amharic Qənes starting from the Gondarine Period (17th to 19th century)\nExample of Qene blending Gəʾəz, Amharic and English:\n3፡ Mäwädəs\n\nMeanings:\nFor the Säm, it is normal for people to rush towards a banquet hall where good food and drinks are being served. Comparatively, the BaläQəne(Qene Poet) advises his brothers (members of the MahəBärä Qədusan(MQ) organization) to rush towards the gates of the church where one can find food for the soul – words from the gospel and angelic voices of gratitude. In the second half, the BaläQəne recounts that without rain the farmer will lose all that he has planted. But observing the presence of rain clouds, the farmer will plant his seeds and when it rains all the plants will blossom. For the Wärq, the BaläQəne advises the MQ members to listen to the words of the gospel with love and humility. And the members are overjoyed because Patriarch Paulos, disregarding those advising him to close down the MQ association, allowed the association to continue doing its work.\n\nMost Qənes are differentiated by their metrical pattern and length of verse. There are also different types of Qəne which are differentiated by the particular usage of the Säm əna Wärq mode. Since Qəne is sung as a hymn at a church service, classifying Qənes according to the metrical pattern is commonplace. Accordingly, there are 9 major Qəne types. And since some of them have sub-types, we can say that there are 17 types of Qəne.\n\nThe Qəne type is determined by the quantity and length of the verses. Thus there are some Qənes which have the same quantity of verses but are classified as different types of Qəne because of the variation in the length of the verses. A student starts his Qəne education starting from the shorter Qənes and working up to the lengthy Qənes. Each Qəne stage uses the previous stage as a building block. When a student is able to compose all the different types of Qəne, he is said to \"Bet Molla\". When someone presents the full variety of Qənes he is said to have composed \"Mulu Bet\".\n\nGubaʾe Qana consists of two verses and symbolizes the divine and human nature of God. There are four types of Gubaʾe Qana differentiated by length of the verse (Short Gubaʾe Qana and long Gubaʾe Qana) and Zema mode ( Gəʾəz Gubaʾe Qana and ʾəzl Gubaʾe Qana). Some say that Gubaʾe Qana got its name by being presented on Tərr 12 – the commemoration of Qana zägälila (wedding in Cana of Galilee). Others say that it got its name by being presented at an assembly in a place called Qana in Showa. Still others say that the name is given to signify the flavor (Qana) of Qəne. The fact that there are only two verses makes it ideal for beginner students and all Qəne students take their first steps in the world of Qəne with the two verse Gubaʾe Qana.\n\nZäʾämlakəye consists of three verses and the zema mode is ʾəzl . The second verse is called Mändärdärya. According to some Qəne experts, the three verses symbolize the mystery of the Trinity. The name Zäʾämlakəye is derived from the fact that this type of Qəne is composed using the first line of Psalm 62 (“አምላኪየ አምላኪየ እገይስ ሀቤከ).\n\nJust like Zäʾämlakəye, Mibäzhu has three verses. The zema mode is ʾəzl and symbolizes the Trinity. The name Mibäzhu is derived from the fact that this type of Qəne is composed using the first line of Psalm 3 (እግዚኦ ሚበዝኁ እለ ይሳቅዩኒ).\n\nThere are two types of Wazema: Long Wazema (five verses with Araray zema mode) and Short Wazema(two verses). Some say Wazema is named as such because it is composed on the eve (wazema) of a major church holiday. Others say that the name is derived from a line in St. Yared’s chant “ዋይ ዜማ ሰማእኩ እመላእክት ቅዱሳን’’ . The long wazema is always composed on the eve of major church holidays.\n\nSəllase has six verses and the zema mode is ʾəzl . This Qəne genre symbolizes the 6 commands of the New Testament. The name is derived from the prayer of the 3 children thanking the god of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob ይትባረክ እግዚአብሔር አምላከ አበዊነ አምላከ አብርሃም አምላከ ይስሃቅ አምላከ ያዕቆብ.\n\nZäyəʾəze Qəne is usually presented in honor of a sovereign. The name is derived from the Psalm where it says “ይዕዜ ትስእሮ ለገብርከ”. There are two types of Zäyəʾəze: long Zäyəʾəze (five verses with Gəʾəz zema mode) and Short Zäyəʾəze (three verses with Araray zema mode). The Short Zäyəʾəze is also called sahləkä because it is usually presented with the psalm “ተሰሃለኒ እግዚኦ በከመ እበየ ሳህልከ”.\n\nThe word Mäwädəs is derived from the verb ወደሰ and denotes gratefulness. There are two types of Mäwädəs: fətah litä (eight verses with Araray zema mode) and kuləkəmu (nine verses). Fətah litä is so named because it is performed after Psalm 42 (“ፍታህ ሊተ እግዚኦ ወተበቀል በቀልየ”), while kuləkəmu is performed after Psalm 46 (ኩልክሙ አህዛብ ጥፍሁ እደዊክሙ).\n\nThis four verse Qəne is usually composed about the subject of the Holy Cross. According to the Zema mode, kəbər yəʾəti is classified into two: Gəʾəz kəbər yəʾəti and ʾəzl kəbər yəʾəti. The name kəbər yəʾəti is derived because it is performed after Psalm 149:9 (“ክብር ይእቲ ዛቲ ለከሉ ፃድቃኑ”).\n\nThere are two types of ʾət’anä mogär: Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär (seven verses) and ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär (eleven verses). The first 4 verses of Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär and the first 6 verses of ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär usually recount about the day’s festivity. The last 3 verses of Gəʾəz ʾət’anä mogär and the last 5 verses of ʾəzl ʾət’anä mogär are called ʿäsärä nəgus. The ʿäsärä nəgus is composed in honor of a sovereign or to praise or rebuke a public figure.\n\nThere are some well known traditions of Qəne such as Nät’äqa, Gəlbät’a, and Tämäst’o. The mastery of these Qəne traditions is the sign of the BaläQəne’s expertise of the genre and his placement at the summit of the Qəne world.\n\nAs the meaning of the term attests, this tradition signifies the taking away of verses but does not equate with stealing. Nät’äqa involves finishing off the verses of a Qəne as another person is reciting the beginning verses. This shows that the one who is doing the Nät’äqa already knows what the other composer was going to recite.\nExample: Emahoy Gälanäsh’s Nät’äqa of her father’s Qəne\n\nWhen the father was reciting\n\nAnd the daughter finished the Qəne by saying,\n\nThe amazed father then said,\n\nMeaning: When a strong horse gallops it is hard for the rider to restrain it.\n\nHidden Meaning: When Jesus took Peter and John with him to the top of Mount Tabor and showed them his transfiguration amongst Moses and Elijah, the disciples were overwhelmed and fell on the ground. The part about St Paul is referring to the Paul’s edict barring women from teaching in public.\n\nGəlbät’a involves taking someone’s Qəne creating a new Qəne by changing the message and rhyming scheme. For example, it is common to wish newlyweds to have a marriage like Abraham and Sarah. But another person can use Gəlbät’a and overturn the blessing by saying let your marriage be not like Abraham and Sarah. When asked why, one can say may the bride not be mentally anguished as Sarah was when Abraham had a child from Sarah’s Servant Hagar. On the other hand, a fearful Abraham gave away his wife to King Abemelek saying she was his sister – and this is a good reason to overturn the first blessing.\n\nThus, likewise, one can overturn the message of a Qəne being recited and create a whole new Qəne. Such practice will help open up new viewpoints of things we are accustomed to and help us list the advantages and disadvantages of a particular knowledge system.\n\nWhen composing Qəne, one is usually immersed in deep contemplation (Tämäst’o) and becomes oblivious to one’s surrounding. A well known example of such a deep contemplation is the story of the BaläQəne Kəflä Yohannəs who was active during the reign of Emperor Iyassu I (1674 – 1698). It is said that Kəflä Yohannəs lived a very humble life and was not popular among the luxury-seeking clergy of the court who were constantly at work to put a rift between him and the emperor. On one occasion, Kəflä Yohannəs, deep in contemplation, did not salute as the Emperor entered the Däbrä Bərhan Səllase Church with his entourage. The clergy were quick to point out Kəflä Yohannəs’ faux pas to the Emperor. Knowing that Kəflä Yohannəs meant no malice, the Emperor threw at him a gold nugget to rouse him from his meditation. Kəflä Yohannəs then approached the Emperor and composed the following Qəne:\n\nThe clergy were further disgraced when the Emperor rewarded Kəflä Yohannəs the gold nugget. Kəflä Yohannəs donated the gold nugget to the church.\n\n"}
{"id": "12223647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12223647", "title": "Repugnant market", "text": "Repugnant market\n\nA repugnant market is an area of commerce that is considered by society to be outside of the range of market transactions and that bringing this area into the realm of a market would be inherently immoral or uncaring. For example, many people consider a market in human organs to be a repugnant market or the ability to bet on terrorist acts in prediction market to be repugnant. Others consider the lack of such markets to be even more immoral and uncaring, as trade bans (e.g. in organ transplants and terrorism information) can create avoidable human suffering.\n\nThe repugnance of markets varies according to time and culture. Slavery is a market currently considered repugnant while for most of recorded history before circa 1000 AD it was considered acceptable, and was still considered acceptable against certain people groups until circa 1800 AD. Examples of markets considered repugnant at one time or place include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40138097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40138097", "title": "Revue indépendante", "text": "Revue indépendante\n\nRevue indépendante is a French symbolist journal. The journal was founded in 1841 by George Sand, Pierre Leroux, and Louis Viardot, and is notable for having published such novels as \"Les Lauriers sont coupés\" by Édouard Dujardin, \"En rade\" by Joris-Karl Huysmans, and \"Consuelo\" by George Sand. The magazine is based in Paris. In 1947 it became the official magazine of the Union of Journalists and Writers. Its editor-in-chief is Christian Grégoire. In March 2014 it went on online.\n"}
{"id": "1448201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448201", "title": "Rufus Jones (writer)", "text": "Rufus Jones (writer)\n\nRufus Matthew Jones (January 25, 1863 – June 16, 1948) was an American religious leader, writer, magazine editor, philosopher, and college professor. He was instrumental in the establishment of the Haverford Emergency Unit (a precursor to the American Friends Service Committee). One of the most influential Quakers of the 20th century, he was a Quaker historian and theologian as well as a philosopher. He is the only person to have delivered two Swarthmore Lectures.\n\nJones was born into an old Quaker family in South China, Maine where he attended services at the Pond Meeting House and then the newer South China Meeting House. In 1885 he graduated from Haverford College in Pennsylvania, and stayed on to earn his M.A. there in 1886. From 1893 to 1912 he was the editor of the \"Friends' Review\" (later called \"The American Friend\"); from this position he tried unsuccessfully to unite the divided body of Quakers. In 1901 Jones received another M. A., from Harvard.\nHe also began teaching philosophy and psychology at Haverford in 1893 and continued to do so until retiring in 1934. From 1898 to 1936 he served on the board of trustees of Bryn Mawr College.\n\nIn 1917 he helped found the American Friends Service Committee. In 1927 Jones took a trip to Asia at the invitation of the YMCA. His main purpose was to address missionaries in China, but he made stops in Japan, India, and Palestine as well. While in India, Jones visited Mahatma Gandhi and the birthplace of the Buddha. This trip helped Jones formulate a new approach to missions—that of giving humanitarian aid to people while respecting other religions and not aggressively converting people to one's own religion. In 1938 he went with George Walton and D. Robert Yarnall on a mission to Nazi Germany to try to help Jewish people there after Kristallnacht.\n\nJones worked hard at soothing some of the hurt from the 19th Century split among Friends and had some success. Jones wrote extensively on the topic of mysticism, which is one of the chief aspects of the Quaker faith.\n\nHe distinguished between negating or negative mysticism (making contact with an impersonal force) and affirming or affirmative mysticism (making contact with a personal being). He upheld that God is a personal being with whom human beings could interact. He wrote in \"The Trail of Life in the Middle Years\", \"The essential characteristic of [mysticism] is the attainment of a personal conviction by an individual that the human spirit and the divine Spirit have met, have found each other, and are in mutual and reciprocal correspondence as spirit with Spirit.\" At the same time that he distinguished between negative and affirmative mysticism, he asserted that all negative mystics occasionally take the affirmative approach and that all affirmative mystics tread the negative path from time to time. He exerted a major influence on the life and work of theologian Howard Thurman, who studied with him in 1929-30.\n\nJones was a member of the Laymen's Commission that toured mission fields in Asia and produced \"\" (1932). The conclusions of this inquiry reflect his views as outlined above.\n\nJones died in 1948 at age 85, in Haverford, Pennsylvania.\n\n\nRufus M. Jones also authored \"SOME PROBLEMS OF LIFE\" Copyright MCMXXXVII. Set up, Electrotyped, Printed, and Bound By The Parthenon Press at Nashville Tennessee, U. S. A. Later reprinted by Cokesbury. Thank You Don J. Hewett, Pastor ret.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "18561985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18561985", "title": "Shaun Nichols", "text": "Shaun Nichols\n\nShaun Nichols is a professor in the Philosophy department at the University of Arizona. \n\nNichols received his PhD. in Philosophy from Rutgers in 1992 under the supervision of Stephen Stich and his BA in Philosophy from Stanford. His early work was concerned primarily with questions in theory of mind. Subsequently, he became a leading contributor to experimental philosophy and was awarded the Stanton Prize by the Society for Philosophy and Psychology in 2005. He is also currently a member of the Experimental Philosophy Lab at the University of Arizona.\n\nNichols's current research projects are in experimental philosophy, moral psychology, cultural evolution, free will, and the self.\n\nIn his work within experimental philosophy, Nichols has addressed questions about cross-cultural differences in semantic intuitions, free will, intentional action, the nature of moral judgment, and a number of other key philosophical concepts.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32096033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32096033", "title": "Showmance", "text": "Showmance\n\nA showmance (sometimes show-mance), also known as show romance, is a romance that develops between two individuals in theater, or on films and television series and between reality show contestants or participants for the running period of the show. When the two actively engage in a \"made up\" situation, it can be called a fauxmance. It is also considered a neologism and its usage is gaining popularity in the media.\n\nThe term came to the attention of the mainstream on the non-scripted American television show \"Big Brother\" when it was first used by Will Kirby in 2001. It has been used in theater on stage for years. Then it moved to films, theater and scripted television,\\ It is primarily entered into as a ploy to gain more public and media attention and, in case of television, more camera time during the run of a theater piece, or a television series. It may be also just a publicity stunt. Showmances during reality shows are often motivated by the participants' wanting viewers to vote to keep them in the show, so that they can see the 'romance' continue. In some competitive reality tv shows (Big Brother or Survivor), contestants often engaged in a showmance for strategic purposes. A showmance couple, by protecting each other and by voting together, maintain power over other contestants. Sometimes, when an amorous relationship actually does continue after the end of a show, many people would still allege that it is \"just a show\" the two are putting on.\n\nShowmance is a portmanteau of the words \"show\" and \"romance\". With a very few exceptions almost all showmance cases end as soon as the theater piece, or the television series or reality show is over. Although mostly involving two persons, it may also possibly extend into a three-way showmance or foursome often accompanied with real or acted rivalries and jealousies. Although mostly the relations involve partners of the opposite sex, at times, showmances may involve same sex relations as well.\n\nOften, a showmance occurs between two people playing lovers. The showmance could be caused because of the close contact between the actors in such situations, or because of a confusion between real emotions and the character's emotions.\n\nThe term has however moved to broader general use, describing any \"contrived romance\", also known as a relationship between two people, when either or both \"act out\" or fake being in love without meaning it, or in many cases with ulterior motives, like benefiting from the other party or misusing and abusing their feelings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1451835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1451835", "title": "Stanley Hauerwas", "text": "Stanley Hauerwas\n\nStanley Hauerwas (born July 24, 1940) is an American theologian, ethicist, and public intellectual. Hauerwas was a longtime professor at Duke University, serving as the Gilbert T. Rowe Professor of Theological Ethics at Duke Divinity School with a joint appointment at the Duke University School of Law. In the fall of 2014, he also assumed a chair in Theological Ethics at the University of Aberdeen. Before moving to Duke and the University of Aberdeen, Hauerwas taught at the University of Notre Dame. Hauerwas is considered by many to be one of the world's most influential living theologians and was named \"America's Best Theologian\" by \"Time\" magazine in 2001. He was also the first American theologian to deliver the prestigious Gifford Lectures at St. Andrew's in Scotland in over forty years. His work is frequently read and debated by scholars in fields outside of religion or ethics, such as political philosophy, sociology, history, and literary theory. Hauerwas has achieved notability outside of academia as a public intellectual, even appearing on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\".\n\nThough Hauerwas is most well known for his work related to ethics and political theology, he has written widely on a diverse range of subjects, such as philosophical theology, political philosophy, the philosophy of social science, law, education, bioethics, and medical ethics. Hauerwas is known for his fierce criticism of liberal democracy, capitalism, and militarism. He is also a critic of both Christian fundamentalism and liberal Christianity. He is commonly cited as a member of the evangelical left. Hauerwas's work draws from a number of theological perspectives, including Methodism, Anabaptism, Anglicanism, and Catholicism. Among his most important contributions to modern theology are his advocacy of and work related to virtue ethics and postliberal theology. Hauerwas's book, \"A Community of Character: Toward a Constructive Christian Social Ethic\", was named as one of the one hundred most important books on religion in the 20th century by \"Christianity Today\".\nHis most widely known book, however, is likely \"Resident Aliens: Life in the Christian Colony\", which was co-written with William Willimon.\n\nStanley Hauerwas was raised in Pleasant Grove, Texas, in a working-class family. He attended both Pleasant Grove High School (1954–56) and W. W. Samuell High School (1956–58). As the son of a bricklayer, Hauerwas was early on apprenticed to the craft of bricklaying under his father. The experience was extremely formative for his later life, as he himself has often compared the skill and hard work that bricklaying requires with both his own approach to theological work and the challenges of living a fully Christian life.\n\nHauerwas's family attended Pleasant Mound Methodist Church, where he experienced Baptism, Confirmation and Communion. At the age of 15, he presented himself for ministry at a Sunday night worship service, presuming then that he would be saved.\n\nAfter leaving Pleasant Grove, Hauerwas matriculated at Southwestern University, a liberal arts college affiliated with the United Methodist Church. He received a B.A. there in 1962. He was also a member of Phi Delta Theta while at Southwestern University. He went on to earn the B.D., M.A., M.Phil and PhD degrees from Yale University. Upon delivering the Gifford Lectures in 2001, Hauerwas was also awarded an honorary D.D. from the University of Edinburgh.\n\nFollowing his graduation from Yale University, Hauerwas taught first at Augustana College in Rock Island, Illinois, before joining the faculty at the University of Notre Dame in 1970. He was later invited to assume a faculty position at the Divinity School of Duke University in 1983, where he taught in the area of theological ethics until his retirement in 2013, though he continues to write and speak at Duke as a senior research fellow. In 2014 he was appointed to a Chair in Theological Ethics at the University of Aberdeen.\n\nHauerwas' influences are wide-ranging, including figures as diverse as Aristotle, Thomas Aquinas, Søren Kierkegaard, Karl Barth, Ludwig Wittgenstein, John Howard Yoder, Alasdair MacIntyre, Michel Foucault, and William James.\n\n\"Time Magazine\" in 2001 named him \"America's Best Theologian\". He responded by saying, \"'Best' is not a theological category.\"\n\nIn 2001 Hauerwas was also invited to give the Gifford Lectures at St. Andrews in Scotland, which were published as \"With the Grain of the Universe\", a text in which Hauerwas argued that Karl Barth was the foremost \"natural theologian\" of the Gifford Lectures. Such an argument is controversial since Karl Barth is well known as an enemy of natural theology. For Hauerwas, however, Barth argued that Christian convictions about the world describe God's good creation as it is while emphasizing that such convictions cannot be understood apart from Christian witness. This, according to Hauerwas, is what makes Barth a proper natural theologian in comparison to Reinhold Niebuhr and William James, who were also featured in the lectures.\n\nEarlier in 1997 he gave the \"Scottish Journal of Theology\" lectures at Aberdeen, published as \"Sanctify Them in Truth\" (1998).\n\nHauerwas has long been associated with narrative theology and postliberal theology (which are closely related but not necessarily synonymous movements). Both of these movements are attached to Yale biblical scholars Brevard Childs, Hans Frei, and George Lindbeck. His \"Reforming Christian Social Ethics: Ten Theses\", published in 1981, serves to summarize the key presuppositions of his alternative to what was the dominant account in Christian ethics at that time. The ten theses are listed as follows:\n\n\nHauerwas writes of narrative as \"the necessary grammar of Christian convictions\" in that Christian claims are inextricably linked to what God has done in history and to the ongoing story of God's people as they move through time. This sense of a \"hypertemporal God\" Hauerwas claims to have gotten from John Howard Yoder, who impressed upon him the need of always locating God's actions in the \"timeliness\" of the created order as witnessed by the Bible. He has explained this understanding of a people (i.e., church) constituted by their ongoing story with God in terms of a pointed and oft-repeated aphorism:\nMy claim, so offensive to some, that the first task of the church is to make the world the world, not to make the world more just, is a correlative of this theological metaphysics. The world simply cannot be narrated - the world cannot have a story - unless a people exist who make the world the world. That is an eschatological claim that presupposes we know there was a beginning only because we have seen the end ... [C]reation names God's continuing action, God's unrelenting desire for us to want to be loved by that love manifest in Christ's life, death, and resurrection.\nAs indicated in the quotation above, Hauerwas believes that the strong distinction between the church and the world is a necessary mark of the Christian life. He collaborated with William H. Willimon (now a retired bishop in the United Methodist Church) in 1989 to offer an accessible version of his vision of the Christian life in the book \"Resident Aliens: Life in the Christian Colony\". This understanding of the church is based on both his narrative and postliberal approach to theology, as well as his reading of Ludwig Wittgenstein's understanding of language and language games.\n\nHauerwas works from within the tradition of virtue ethics, having been deeply influenced by Alasdair MacIntyre and his work \"After Virtue\".\n\nHauerwas is also known as an ardent critic of liberal democracy. In recent years, however, Hauerwas has become conversant with the tradition of radical democracy. In 2007 he collaborated on a book on the subject with political theorist and ethicst Romand Coles entitled \"Christianity, Democracy, and the Radical Ordinary: Conversations Between a Radical Democrat and a Christian\".\n\nAmong Hauerwas's most well-known critics are Jeffrey Stout of Princeton and Nicholas Wolterstorff of Yale, though both have often praised his work as well.\n\nHauerwas's theological views may be best illuminated by his engagement with the work of Reinhold Niebuhr and H. Richard Niebuhr, often considered two of the most influential American theologians of the 20th century. Hauerwas frequently discusses the work of both Niebuhr brothers, mentioning them in some form in most of his books. Reinhold was also one of the primary subjects of Hauerwas' 2000–2001 Gifford Lectures, which were later republished in book form under the title \"With the Grain of the Universe\".\n\nIn the early years of his career Hauerwas was deeply influenced by the work of both brothers. Later, primarily as a result of encountering the work of John Howard Yoder, he came to disagree with fundamental elements of their theology, while continuing to affirm other elements of their work that he found important.\n\nWhile many believe that the Niebuhrs' advocacy of Christian realism represents a rejection of liberal Christianity, Hauerwas argues that the brothers actually belong to that theological tradition. For him, while they both placed a strong emphasis on the sinfulness of humanity (which stood in stark contrast to most liberal thinkers), he believes that the Niebuhrs based their theologies on the presuppositions of secular philosophy rather than those of Christianity, thus placing them in the liberal tradition of modern Christian thought. In particular, Hauerwas argues that Reinhold Niebuhr was deeply influenced by William James, accepting a pragmatist epistemology.\n\nFor Hauerwas, the Niebuhrs are important figures in part because the flaws in their thinking represent the same flaws which are endemic to much of modern Christianity, with the Church often being shaped more by the culture of liberal democracy than the message of Jesus. In Hauerwas' view, this has led the Church (and Christians in general) to compromise their values and place too much faith in secular political ideologies, often leading to a misplaced passion for political power. This represents the thesis of Hauerwas in his most popular book, \"Resident Aliens\" (which was co-written by William Willimon). In the book, Hauerwas and Willimon argue that the Church's accommodation to secular culture has led to tragedies like the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima Hauerwas, therefore, believes that the Niebuhrs' thinking is subject to the same flaws as Jerry Falwell, with Hauerwas and Willimon stating that \"few books have been a greater hindrance to an accurate assessment of [the Church's] situation\" than H. Richard Niebuhr's famous book \"Christ and Culture\". Thus according to Hauerwas, while they may have disagreed when it comes to policy, both the Niebuhrs and Falwell fell prey to the notion Christians have a duty to use the political process as a means to enact \"Christian\" legislation or pursue justice.\n\nIn his book \"The Peaceable Kingdom\" Hauerwas offers commentary on two classic essays written by the Niebuhrs for \"The Christian Century\" on the subject of the Conflict in Manchuria. In the first essay, entitled \"The Grace of Doing Nothing\", H. Richard Niebuhr argues that humans are self-interested and egoistic and that Christians, because they are subject to these same flaws, should remain non-violent even in a time of war. In his essay in response, entitled \"Must We Do Nothing?\", Reinhold Niebuhr argues that Christians must have a self-awareness about their own sinfulness and self-interestedness, but must sometimes use force to protect certain ideals and people. In his commentary Hauerwas acknowledges that both brothers make important points, but critiques Reinhold's view, ultimately agreeing with H. Richard Niebuhr.\n\nThe basic utilitarian rationalization for research on human beings is the ends justify the means. Therefore, any sort of research on a human being is justified by the possibility of successfully saving others. For example, all cancer research would be justified by the possibility of finding a cure for cancer, which would inevitably save the life of many others. The utilitarian argument focuses on the greatest good for the greatest number of people or the greater good. Under the utilitarian justification it is a person's duty to sacrifice himself or herself if it would save others as long as the individual person's societal worth is less than the combined societal worth of the others. Therefore, if either a doctor or a homeless person must die to save the lives of many others, the homeless person must sacrifice himself since he is worth less to society than the doctor.\n\nThe deontological argument against research on human beings is that persons are an ends in themselves. This means we cannot use people for any purpose. The deontological argument relies on the belief that we should treat others as we would like to be treated. If someone was suffering from a terminal illness and they were likely to die shortly, under deontological assumptions research could not be done on them even if it meant saving the lives of millions.\n\nHauerwas finds these two moral theories very limiting because they are quandary ethics, cases that rely on extreme situations. He believes that there needs to be a third reasoning that falls somewhere in between these two. He believes that the basic doctor-patient relationship should be built on trust and caring. This characterizes him as more of deontological thinker; however, he does believe in research on human beings. Hauerwas’s perspective is that there needs to be a middle ground between these two perspectives. The patient becomes dehumanized through research; however, without this research there would be little medical improvement. Hauerwas therefore believes this middle ground should focus on caring for the patient instead of curing. With this, Hauerwas believes we do not have the moral understanding to handle current medicine.\n\nAs mentioned above, Hauerwas believes that the moral issue of experimentation on humans cannot be answered from a utilitarianism versus deontological perspective. He believes that society lacks a cohesive understanding of the notions of “the good of mankind” and “the rights of the individual.” Only when this issue is solved can society come to a conclusive decision on how science should be used to serve humans needs. Therapeutic and nontherapeutic experimentation on humans are differentiated by the intent of the procedure. Therapeutic experimentation is meant to help the patient with their current needs, while nontherapeutic experimentation has no intention of helping the patient, but to collect research for the benefit of future patients. The issue becomes: should medical progress be helping the current patient or the future patient? Stanley Hauerwas believes society has no consensus of the meanings of health and illness, which contributes to the issue of how patients should be treated. Only when society comes to a universal understanding of these issues can the moral dilemma of experimentation on humans be resolved.\n\nHauerwas finds little justification for human experimentation through informed consent. He argues that a patient’s understanding of an experimental procedure will never approach that of his or her physician. He questions even the possibility of a patient reaching a state of “informed consent.” He further believes that if individuals reach such a state of “informed consent”, this does not mean individuals should consent, or fully understand the meaning of their consent. “For persons can misuse themselves even if they do so voluntarily and with full knowledge.” Individuals consenting to experimentation through the justification of the human good, turn themselves into objects for the use of the experimentation. The issue is further complicated for Hauerwas as to whom should be considered for medical experimentation. The use of prisoners only proliferates social stereotypes and denigration. He believes that informed consent is necessary for human experimentation, but it does not provide justification for our willingness to submit and participate in experimentation.\n\nHauerwas finds the language of “rights” to be disturbing as it assumes that people relate to others as strangers, and lends even the understanding of the family to that of a contractual society. He argues that being part of a family, however, is not a voluntary undertaking. As such, when one is part of a family, the kinds of responsibilities each member holds are in relation to each other. Hauerwas finds that as a parent, you have a duty to your children, not just because you brought them into existence, but because the role of parent is to ensure the children are brought up in a way that is conducive to the community’s values. Thus, the issue with “rights” language is that it attempts to prevent maltreatment of individuals to the point of exclusion of familial and communal responsibility. Hauerwas’s bottom line is that there can be no real society if its members only relate in terms of noninterference. The language of rights destroys society because we regard people as strangers instead of assuming the responsibility towards them as family and members of the community that we share.\n\nHauerwas believes that there is a difference between the concept of death and the criteria for death. The concept of death “involves a philosophical judgment of a significant change that has happened in a person” and therefore “is a correlative of what one takes to be the necessary condition of human life, e.g., … the potential for consciousness”. The criteria of death, however, are “those empirical measurements that can be made to determine whether a person is dead, such as cessation of respiration or a flat EEG”. Thus, brain death is a criterion of death that may serve “as a symbol of when it is time to die”. A person must not delay death so long that it is no longer possible to die a good death.\n\nOn the subject of suicide, Hauerwas challenges the claim that autonomous suicide is morally acceptable, but also wants to distinguish himself from the position that denies rational suicide. He believes that suicide can be and often is a rational decision of an “autonomous” agent, but does not agree with the notion that it is justified. He contends that suicide as an institution must be considered morally doubtful, as the life that we are given should be considered a gift bestowed upon us by God. To many, the term \"rational suicide\" is based on the assumption that the decision to live or die depends on whether life has a meaning or purpose. Hauerwas, however, contends that the reason we should live on, is because our lives are not ours, and as such, reminds us that there is a commitment to keep on living. Yet, while there may be times in our lives where suicide may seem rational, mere existence allows us to enjoy certain joys, such as helping another, or healing the sick, that should be enough to sustain our commitment to living.\n\nAccording to Hauerwas, a “good death is a death that we can prepare for through living because we are able to see that death is but a necessary correlative to a good life.\" A long life may give a person more of a chance to have a good death because he may be able to get himself morally in line during that time period, but it is also possible to die well quickly if you have lived morally. A good death also requires that the death be morally in proportion with the way one lived and was sustained, and occurs in a way that allows those caring for us to see that they are sustaining us.\n\nOn the subject of abortion, Hauerwas notes that \"Christians in America are tempted to think of issues like abortion primarily in legal terms such as \"rights.\"\" Another move is to view abortion in medical terms. Hauerwas observes that \"Christians maintain that the description \"abortion\" is more accurate and determinative than the description \"termination of pregnancy.\"\" Seeing abortion rightly is akin to understanding that \"abortion\" is \"as much a moral description as \"suicide.\"\" A community maintains a description like \"suicide\" to remind itself to practice enhancing life, even when difficult--just as the people of God have an obligation to protect vulnerable human life even when it is \"unplanned.\"\n\nAccording to his essay, \"Practicing Patience: How Christians Should Be Sick\", in \"Christians Among the Virtues\", he said that Christians are called to be patient patients in sickness and in health because \"patience is integral to the Christian life\". Patience cannot be first learned while being a patient. To learn patience, Christians are to exercise the virtue through deeds, truth, practice, and living it. Hauerwas also says that patience is a virtue we have in common with God. \"In Him, patience has its beginning, and from Him as its source it takes its splendor and dignity.\" He also says that God showed us the best example of patience when it comes to the life of Jesus. Because God is the foundation, Hauerwas stated that “only patience shaped by Christ is true patience\". As well as this, he later emphasized that patience is not developed by human will, but given through the Holy Spirit, who gives us the capacity to love, for “without [love] in us there cannot be patience because in good men it is the [love] of God which endures all things.” In the author’s essay, he gave people a framework of how to learn to practice patience when we are not sick:\n1. We have been given one another to learn to live with one another.\n2. We’ve been given time and space to develop habits from activities that require patience.\n\nHauerwas speaks about courage in his essay \"Courage Exemplified\", in \"Christians Among the Virtues\". He first looked to Aristotle, who firmly believed soldiers could only show courage. He also said that courage is acquired through imitation of action and emotion, and virtue required practice before it was mastered. Hauerwas indicated that to Aristotle, “without war, courage could not be fully known.\" The philosopher also spoke of Aquinas’ view of courage. To begin, he expressed that to Aquinas, charity is the central trunk from which all the other virtues branch out, which includes courage. In contrast to Aristotle, courage isn’t just for battlefield; it adds any situation one might face danger and death, such as tending to the sick bed of loved one or going on a walk into the unknown with a friend. According to the essay, Aquinas “treats fortitude in such a way that its ends are transformed by charity.” Even though a situation might be dangerous, the individual is courageous because they possess love for the person they are helping. Courage, then, is more accessible opposed to Aristotle’s view.\nTo transition, Hauerwas added the Christian to the mix when he narrated that Christianity requires courage which is “a kind of endurance in the face of difficulty, danger, or oppression.\" To tie in the first essay, he went on to say that patience and perseverance are “integral to the very meaning of virtue.\" All of this is to say that the Christian must have the patience to get through tough times. To him, the ultimate display of courage is through the martyr, who is “required to patiently persevere, since they have the confidence that enduring wrong is the gift of charity.\" The philosopher also highlighted that true courage is a gift of the Holy Spirit when he said that “courage is a gift of the Spirit that protects the martyr from the ‘dread of danger.’\" The martyr is the best example because they believe that “God will complete God’s work in [them] even if [their] lives are taken by [the] enemies.\" In the eyes of both Aquinas the Hauerwas, “those formed by the courage necessary to face death well will be more easily led to the fuller amount of courage offered by Christians.\"\n\nOverall, Hauerwas believes that America is not courageous because it does not act out of charity. He believes that the church can do it, but he questions whether America as a whole is able to. His answer is that it cannot. “We in America have lost our moral vision precisely as we have lost our courage to fight for what is right and good.\" \n\nin January 2017, Hauerwas wrote an op-ed for \"The Washington Post\" in which he argues that President Donald Trump is an exemplar of American civil religion and distorted theology.\n\nHauerwas is a prolific writer. Many of his books are collections of essays; some are structured monographs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2475458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2475458", "title": "The Freethinker (journal)", "text": "The Freethinker (journal)\n\nThe Freethinker was a British secular humanist magazine, founded by G.W. Foote in 1881. One of the world's oldest surviving freethought publications, it moved online-only in 2014.\n\nIt has always taken an unapologetically atheist, anti-religious stance. In Issue 1 (May, 1881), Foote set out \"The Freethinker's\" purpose:\n\nAlthough closely linked with the National Secular Society for most of its history (NSS Presidents and General Secretaries have at various times also served as \"Freethinker\" editor), \"The Freethinker\" is strictly autonomous and is not, and never has been, published by the NSS.\n\nIn 2006, the magazine's front-page masthead was changed from \"Secular humanist monthly\" to \"The Voice of Atheism since 1881\".\n\nBarry Duke is the current editor.\n\nFollowing the publication of anti-religious cartoons in the Christmas 1882 edition of \"The Freethinker\", Foote was prosecuted for blasphemy, and sentenced to 12 months imprisonment with hard labour.\n\nThe April 2014 edition of \"The Freethinker\" contained an announcement that the May issue would be the last to appear in print; publication would continue online.\n\nHere is a list of editors of \"The Freethinker\" from 1881:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43829217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43829217", "title": "The Light Between Oceans (film)", "text": "The Light Between Oceans (film)\n\nThe Light Between Oceans is a 2016 romantic period drama film written and directed by Derek Cianfrance and based on the 2012 novel of the same name by M. L. Stedman. An international co-production between the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand, the film stars Michael Fassbender, Alicia Vikander, Rachel Weisz, Bryan Brown, and Jack Thompson. The film tells the story of a lighthouse keeper and his wife who rescue and adopt an infant girl adrift at sea. Years later, the couple discover the child's true parentage and are faced with the moral dilemma of their actions.\n\n\"The Light Between Oceans\" had its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2016, where it competed for the Golden Lion. The film was released by Touchstone Pictures in North America on September 2, 2016, being the last DreamWorks Pictures film distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures through their 2011 output deal. The film was released in the United Kingdom on November 1, 2016, by Entertainment One Films. It received mixed reviews and grossed $26 million worldwide.\n\nTom Sherbourne, a traumatised and withdrawn hero of World War I, is hired as a lightkeeper at Janus Rock, a lighthouse off the coast of Western Australia. He falls in love with a local girl, Isabel Graysmark, and they marry in 1921. Isabel loses two pregnancies in three years and fears she may never become a mother.\n\nShortly after Isabel's second miscarriage, a rowboat containing a dead man and a newborn baby girl washes ashore near the lighthouse. Tom knows that regulations require him to report the discovery. However, Isabel fears that the baby will almost certainly be sent to an orphanage and persuades Tom to pass the baby off as their own. Tom grudgingly agrees. He buries the man on the island, and the couple names the girl Lucy.\n\nAs Tom and Isabel are about to have Lucy christened on the mainland, Tom sees a woman, Hannah Roennfeldt, kneeling in front of a grave bearing the names of Frank Roennfeldt and his baby daughter Grace Ellen, who were lost at sea on the day they found Lucy, 26 April 1923. Tom fears that Lucy might very well be Hannah's missing daughter. He writes anonymously to Hannah to tell her that her husband is dead but that her baby is safe and well cared-for.\n\nFour years later, Tom, Isabel, and Lucy, who have enjoyed an idyllic life together, attend a ceremony for the anniversary of Tom's lighthouse, and they strike up a conversation with Hannah and her sister, Gwen Potts. They learn that Frank was a German, that Hannah's marrying him so soon after the First World War was controversial, and that he had been accosted in the street by a drunken crowd. He jumped into a rowboat and fled with his baby daughter. \n\nTormented by his conscience, Tom sends Hannah a small rattle that was found with Lucy on the boat. One of Tom's co-workers recognizes the rattle on a reward poster and reports him to the police.\n\nTom takes full responsibility, claiming he bullied Isabel into complying. Isabel is enraged that Tom is willing to give Lucy away and breaks off contact with him after his arrest. Lucy is returned to her birth family but initially rejects and hates them, having no memory of them. She refuses to answer to \"Grace\" and even runs away in an effort to return to the lighthouse.\n\nThe police accuse Tom of murdering Frank and are unable to draw an answer from the distraught Isabel as to whether or not Frank was dead when they discovered him. Lucy runs away to look for the lighthouse, and a search team is sent to rescue her. She is found and returned to Hannah, but the events lead Hannah to realize that Lucy now belongs to Isabel. \n\nHannah promises to return Lucy to Isabel as soon as Isabel testifies against Tom. Just as Tom is about to be taken by boat to Albany for trial, Isabel reads a letter which Tom had sent her, confiding he had not deserved his happiness with Lucy and how carrying the blame will assuage his guilt for surviving the war. \n\nIsabel jumps on the boat and confesses everything. Moved by their gesture and reminded by Frank's words to always forgive others, Hannah offers to speak on their behalf at trial. Lucy has at last begun to bond with her biological mother and grandfather, who agrees to call her \"Lucy-Grace\" as a compromise.\n\nIn 1950, an adult Lucy-Grace Rutherford, accompanied by her baby son Christopher, tracks Tom down. She has not been in contact with the Sherbournes for over twenty years, as they had agreed not to contact her for the rest of her childhood. Isabel has recently died, still tormented with guilt for her actions, and Tom gives Lucy-Grace a letter that Isabel had written in case Lucy ever made contact. An emotional Lucy-Grace thanks Tom, the only father she knew, for rescuing and raising her for the few years on Janus, and she asks if she can visit again. She and Tom embrace before she leaves.\n\n\nDreamWorks acquired the rights to the novel on November 27, 2012, with David Heyman and Jeffrey Clifford producing through Heyday Films. DreamWorks approached Derek Cianfrance at the behest of Steven Spielberg, who was impressed by Cianfrance's \"Blue Valentine\". In September 2013, Cianfrance was announced to direct the film. In May 2014, Michael Fassbender was announced in the film. In June 2014, Alicia Vikander joined the cast of the film, followed by Rachel Weisz in July 2014. Participant Media joined the production in August 2014.\n\nPrincipal photography started in September 2014, with filming locations in New Zealand and Australia. Filming took place in Dunedin, Port Chalmers and on the Otago Peninsula, Saint Bathans in Central Otago and at the Cape Campbell Lighthouse in Marlborough. Filming sites included the former Dunedin Prison in Dunedin and Stuart Street at the former King Edward Technical College building.\n\nFootage aboard a steam train was filmed in October inside a refurbished wooden \"bird cage\" passenger carriage from the Pleasant Point Railway in South Canterbury. Mainline Steam Heritage Trust used Ja 1240 \"Jessica\" for the movie and it was transferred from the trust's Christchurch depot to Dunedin for filming to take place. While the scene in which the locomotive is used was set in 1918, locomotive Ja 1240 was built in 1947 and was the second New Zealand Railways JA class locomotive to be built. Built at New Zealand Railways Hillside workshops in Dunedin it ran exclusively in the South Island of New Zealand from 1947 until 1971.\n\nIn November the production moved to Australia and filming began in Stanley, Tasmania where the crews transformed some locations in the town including the pier, which was refurbished, and the road, which was covered in gravel. Production wrapped on November 24, 2014.\n\nCianfrance spent a year editing the film, with little breaks in between with the first cut of the film ending up at 2 hours and 20 minutes.\n\n\"The Light Between Oceans\" held its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2016. The film was distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures through the Touchstone Pictures banner, being the last DreamWorks film to be released under the original agreement with Walt Disney Studios. Disney released the film in the United States on September 2, 2016. Disney opted not to give the film a limited release, a method often used by studios for adult dramas, and instead issued the film in general wide release at 1,500 locations with focus on upscale venues.\n\nDisney also distributed \"The Light Between Oceans\" overseas, except for territories in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Japan, where distribution was handled by Mister Smith Entertainment through other third-party film distributors; Entertainment One Films in the United Kingdom, Reliance in India, Arthouse in Russia, and Phantom Film in Japan.\n\n\"The Light Between Oceans\" was released by Touchstone Home Entertainment on Blu-ray, DVD, and digital download on January 24, 2017.\n\n\"The Light Between Oceans\" grossed $12.5 million in North America and $13.3 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $26 million, against a budget of $20 million.\n\nIn the United States, the film was released on September 2, 2016, alongside \"Morgan\", and was projected to gross $6–9 million from around 1,500 theaters in its opening weekend. It grossed $1.4 million on its first day and $4.8 million in its opening weekend, finishing 6th at the box office.\n\n\"The Light Between Oceans\" received mixed reviews from critics. On review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 60%, based on 214 reviews, with an average rating of 6.2/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Light Between Oceans\" presents a well-acted and handsomely mounted adaptation of its bestselling source material, but ultimately tugs on the heartstrings too often to be effective.\" On Metacritic, the film has an average score of 60 out of 100, based on 44 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". According to CinemaScore, audiences gave the film an average grade of \"B+\", on an A+ to F scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "51871793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51871793", "title": "The Limits of State Action", "text": "The Limits of State Action\n\nThe Limits Of State Action (original German title \"Ideen zu einem Versuch die Grenzen der Wirksamkeit des Staats zu bestimmen\") is a philosophical treatise by Wilhelm von Humboldt, which is a major work of the German Enlightenment. Though written in the early 1790s, it was not published in its entirety until 1852, long after von Humboldt's death in 1835. It was a significant source for the ideas that John Stuart Mill popularized in his 1859 book \"On Liberty\", and is discussed favorably by Mill in the third chapter of that work, \"Of Individuality, as One of the Elements of Well-Being.\" Mill had access to an 1854 English translation under the title \"The Sphere and Duties of Government\".\n\nHumboldt defines the criteria by which the permissible limits of the state's activities may be determined. His basic principle, like that of Mill, is that the only justification for government interference is the prevention of harm to others. He discusses in detail the role and limits of the state's responsibility for the welfare, security and morals of its citizens.\n\nWilhelm von Humboldt describes his purpose in writing \"The Limits of State Action\" as:\n\"The grand, leading principle, towards which every argument … unfolded in these pages directly converges, is the absolute and essential importance of human development in its richest diversity.\" Many commentators believe that Humboldt’s discussion of issues of freedom and individual responsibility possesses greater clarity and directness than John Stuart Mill’s. “Germany’s greatest philosopher of freedom,” as F. A. Hayek called him, has an exuberance and attention to principle that make it a valuable introduction to classical liberal political thought. It is also crucial for an understanding of liberalism as it developed in Europe at the turn of the nineteenth century. Humboldt explores the role that liberty plays in individual development, discusses criteria for permitting the state to limit individual actions, and suggests ways of confining the state to its proper bounds. In so doing, he uniquely combines the ancient concern for human excellence and the modern concern for what has come to be known as negative liberty.\n"}
{"id": "34442389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34442389", "title": "The Ten Commandments of Dog Ownership", "text": "The Ten Commandments of Dog Ownership\n\nThe Ten Commandments of Dog Ownership, also known as The Ten Commandments From a Pet's Point of View or simply Ten Commandments For Dog Owners, is a set of pet ownership rules. It was created in 1993 by Stan Rawlinson, and is written from the point of view of a dog.\n\nThis set of rules was used as the basis of the 2008 Japanese film \"10 Promises to My Dog\".\n\nThe commandments convey the dog's perspective to elicit empathy from humans in their role as owner. They are written from the dog's viewpoint and they allude to principles assumed important to dogs. Commandments convey ideas of trust, tolerance, anger, hurt, pain, and forgiveness amongst others.\n\nThe Ten Commandments of Dog Ownership was translated in Japanese and compiled into a tankōbon by author Rie Hasegawa. This book was published by Nihon Bungeisha, and was released in Japan on September 2004.\n\nAdditionally, The Ten Commandments of Dog Ownership was used as an inspiration for a novel written by Hare Kawaguchi. Published on 28 July 2007, this book is entitled . \"10 Promises To My Dog\" was later adapted into a 2008 Japanese film of the same name. The film was directed by Katsuhide Motoki, and stars Rena Tanaka, Mayuko Fukuda, Etsushi Toyokawa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "488083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488083", "title": "Theory of mind", "text": "Theory of mind\n\nTheory of mind is the ability to attribute mental states—beliefs, intents, desires, emotions, knowledge, etc.—to oneself, and to others, and to understand that others have beliefs, desires, intentions, and perspectives that are different from one's own. Theory of mind is crucial for everyday human social interactions and is used when analyzing, judging, and inferring others' behaviors. Deficits can occur in people with autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, cocaine addiction, and brain damage suffered from alcohol's neurotoxicity. Although philosophical approaches to this exist, the theory of mind as such is distinct from the philosophy of mind.\n\nTheory of mind is a theory insofar as the mind is the only thing being directly observed. The presumption that others have a mind is termed a theory of mind because each human can only intuit the existence of their own mind through introspection, and no one has direct access to the mind of another. It is typically assumed that others have minds analogous to one's own, and this assumption is based on the reciprocal, social interaction, as observed in joint attention, the functional use of language, and the understanding of others' emotions and actions. Having theory of mind allows one to attribute thoughts, desires, and intentions to others, to predict or explain their actions, and to posit their intentions. As originally defined, it enables one to understand that mental states can be the cause of—and thus be used to explain and predict—the behavior of others. Being able to attribute mental states to others and understanding them as causes of behavior implies, in part, that one must be able to conceive of the mind as a \"generator of representations\". If a person does not have a complete theory of mind, it may be a sign of cognitive or developmental impairment.\n\nTheory of mind appears to be an innate potential ability in humans that requires social and other experience over many years for its full development. Different people may develop more, or less, effective theory of mind. Neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development maintain that theory of mind is a byproduct of a broader hypercognitive ability of the human mind to register, monitor, and represent its own functioning.\n\nEmpathy is a related concept, meaning the recognition and understanding of the states of mind of others, including their beliefs, desires and particularly emotions. This is often characterized as the ability to \"put oneself into another's shoes\". Recent neuro-ethological studies of animal behaviour suggest that even rodents may exhibit ethical or empathetic abilities. While empathy is known as emotional perspective-taking, theory of mind is defined as cognitive perspective-taking.\n\nResearch on theory of mind, in humans and animals, adults and children, normally and atypically developing, has grown rapidly in the 35 years since Premack and Guy Woodruff's paper, \"Does the chimpanzee have a theory of mind?\". The emerging field of social neuroscience has also begun to address this debate, by imaging the brains of humans while they perform tasks demanding the understanding of an intention, belief or other mental state in others.\n\nAn alternative account of theory of mind is given within operant psychology and provides significant empirical evidence for a functional account of both perspective-taking and empathy. The most developed operant approach is founded on research on derived relational responding and is subsumed within what is called relational frame theory. According to this view, empathy and perspective-taking comprise a complex set of derived relational abilities based on learning to discriminate and respond verbally to ever more complex relations between self, others, place, and time, and through established relations.\n\nContemporary discussions of Theory of Mind have their roots in philosophical debate—most broadly, from the time of Descartes' \"Second Meditation\", which set the groundwork for considering the science of the mind. Most prominent recently are two contrasting approaches in the philosophical literature, to theory of mind: theory-theory and simulation theory. The theory-theorist imagines a veritable theory—\"folk psychology\"—used to reason about others' minds. The theory is developed automatically and innately, though instantiated through social interactions. It is also closely related to person perception and attribution theory from social psychology.\n\nThe intuitive assumption that others are minded is an apparent tendency we all share. We anthropomorphize non-human animals, inanimate objects, and even natural phenomena. Daniel Dennett referred to this tendency as taking an \"intentional stance\" toward things: we assume they have intentions, to help predict future behavior. However, there is an important distinction between taking an \"intentional stance\" toward something and entering a \"shared world\" with it. The intentional stance is a detached and functional theory we resort to during interpersonal interactions. A shared world is directly perceived and its existence structures reality itself for the perceiver. It is not just automatically applied to perception; it in many ways constitutes perception.\n\nThe philosophical roots of the relational frame theory (RFT) account of Theory of Mind arise from contextual psychology and refer to the study of organisms (both human and non-human) interacting in and with a historical and current situational context. It is an approach based on contextualism, a philosophy in which any event is interpreted as an ongoing act inseparable from its current and historical context and in which a radically functional approach to truth and meaning is adopted. As a variant of contextualism, RFT focuses on the construction of practical, scientific knowledge. This scientific form of contextual psychology is virtually synonymous with the philosophy of operant psychology.\n\nThe study of which animals are capable of attributing knowledge and mental states to others, as well as the development of this ability in human ontogeny and phylogeny, has identified several behavioral precursors to theory of mind. Understanding attention, understanding of others' intentions, and imitative experience with other people are hallmarks of a theory of mind that may be observed early in the development of what later becomes a full-fledged theory. In studies with non-human animals and pre-verbal humans, in particular, researchers look to these behaviors preferentially in making inferences about mind. \nSimon Baron-Cohen identified the infant's understanding of attention in others, a social skill found by 7 to 9 months of age, as a \"critical precursor\" to the development of theory of mind. Understanding attention involves understanding that seeing can be directed selectively as attention, that the looker assesses the seen object as \"of interest\", and that seeing can induce beliefs. Attention can be directed and shared by the act of pointing, a joint attention behavior that requires taking into account another person's mental state, particularly whether the person notices an object or finds it of interest. Baron-Cohen speculates that the inclination to spontaneously reference an object in the world as of interest (\"protodeclarative pointing\") and to likewise appreciate the directed attention and interests of another may be the underlying motive behind all human communication.\n\nUnderstanding of others' intentions is another critical precursor to understanding other minds because intentionality, or \"aboutness\", is a fundamental feature of mental states and events. The \"intentional stance\" has been defined by Daniel Dennett as an understanding that others' actions are goal-directed and arise from particular beliefs or desires. Both 2- and 3-year-old children could discriminate when an experimenter intentionally vs. accidentally marked a box with stickers as baited. Even earlier in ontogeny, Andrew N. Meltzoff found that 18-month-old infants could perform target manipulations that adult experimenters attempted and failed, suggesting the infants could represent the object-manipulating behavior of adults as involving goals and intentions. While attribution of intention (the box-marking) and knowledge (false-belief tasks) is investigated in young humans and nonhuman animals to detect precursors to a theory of mind, Gagliardi et al. have pointed out that even adult humans do not always act in a way consistent with an attributional perspective. In the experiment, adult human subjects made choices about baited containers when guided by confederates who could not see (and therefore, not know) which container was baited.\n\nRecent research in developmental psychology suggests that the infant's ability to imitate others lies at the origins of both theory of mind and other social-cognitive achievements like perspective-taking and empathy. According to Meltzoff, the infant's innate understanding that others are \"like me\" allows it to recognize the equivalence between the physical and mental states apparent in others and those felt by the self. For example, the infant uses his own experiences, orienting his head/eyes toward an object of interest to understand the movements of others who turn toward an object, that is, that they will generally attend to objects of interest or significance. Some researchers in comparative disciplines have hesitated to put a too-ponderous weight on imitation as a critical precursor to advanced human social-cognitive skills like mentalizing and empathizing, especially if true imitation is no longer employed by adults. A test of imitation by Alexandra Horowitz found that adult subjects imitated an experimenter demonstrating a novel task far less closely than children did. Horowitz points out that the precise psychological state underlying imitation is unclear and cannot, by itself, be used to draw conclusions about the mental states of humans.\n\nWhile much research has been done on infants, theory of mind develops continuously throughout childhood and into late adolescence as the synapses (neuronal connections) in the prefrontal cortex develop. The prefrontal cortex is thought to be involved in planning and decision-making. Children seem to develop theory of mind skills sequentially. The first skill to develop is the ability to recognize that others have diverse desires. Children are able to recognize that others have diverse beliefs soon after. The next skill to develop is recognizing that others have access to different knowledge bases. Finally, children are able to understand that others may have false beliefs and that others are capable of hiding emotions. While this sequence represents the general trend in skill acquisition, it seems that more emphasis is placed on some skills in certain cultures, leading to more valued skills to develop before those that are considered not as important. For example, in individualistic cultures such as the United States, a greater emphasis is placed on the ability to recognize that others have different opinions and beliefs. In a collectivistic culture, such as China, this skill may not be as important and therefore may not develop until later.\n\nThere is evidence to believe that the development of theory of mind is closely intertwined with language development in humans. One meta-analysis showed a moderate to strong correlation (\"r\" = 0.43) between performance on theory of mind and language tasks. One might argue that this relationship is due solely to the fact that both language and theory of mind seem to begin to develop substantially around the same time in children (between ages 2–5). However, many other abilities develop during this same time period as well, and do not produce such high correlations with one another nor with theory of mind. There must be something else going on to explain the relationship between theory of mind and language.\n\nPragmatic theories of communication assume that infants must possess an understanding of beliefs and mental states of others to infer the communicative content that proficient language users intend to convey. Since a verbal utterance is often underdetermined, and therefore, it can have different meanings depending on the actual context theory of mind abilities can play a crucial role in understanding the communicative and informative intentions of others and inferring the meaning of words. Some empirical results suggest that even 13-month-old infants have an early capacity for communicative mind-reading that enables them to infer what relevant information is transferred between communicative partners, which implies that human language relies at least partially on theory of mind skills.\n\nCarol A. Miller posed further possible explanations for this relationship. One idea was that the extent of verbal communication and conversation involving children in a family could explain theory of mind development. The belief is that this type of language exposure could help introduce a child to the different mental states and perspectives of others. This has been suggested empirically by findings indicating that participation in family discussion predict scores on theory of mind tasks, as well as findings showing that deaf children who have hearing parents and may not be able to communicate with their parents much during early years of development tend to score lower on theory of mind tasks.\n\nAnother explanation of the relationship between language and theory of mind development has to do with a child's understanding of mental state words such as \"\"think\" and \"believe\"\". Since a mental state is not something that one can observe from behavior, children must learn the meanings of words denoting mental states from verbal explanations alone, requiring knowledge of the syntactic rules, semantic systems, and pragmatics of a language. Studies have shown that understanding of these mental state words predicts theory of mind in four-year-olds.\n\nA third hypothesis is that the ability to distinguish a whole sentence (\"Jimmy thinks the world is flat\") from its embedded complement (\"the world is flat\") and understand that one can be true while the other can be false is related to theory of mind development. Recognizing these sentential complements as being independent of one another is a relatively complex syntactic skill and has been shown to be related to increased scores on theory of mind tasks in children.\n\nIn addition to these hypotheses, there is also evidence that the neural networks between the areas of the brain responsible for language and theory of mind are closely connected. The temporoparietal junction has been shown to be involved in the ability to acquire new vocabulary, as well as perceive and reproduce words. The temporoparietal junction also contains areas that specialize in recognizing faces, voices, and biological motion, in addition to theory of mind. Since all of these areas are located so closely together, it is reasonable to conclude that they work together. Moreover, studies have reported an increase in activity in the TPJ when patients are absorbing information through reading or images regarding other peoples' beliefs but not while observing information about physical control stimuli.\n\nIn older age, theory of mind capacities decline, irrespective of how exactly they are tested (e.g. stories, eyes, videos, false belief-video, false belief-other, faux pas). However, the decline in other cognitive functions is even stronger, suggesting that social cognition is somewhat preserved. In contrast to theory of mind, empathy shows no impairments in aging.\n\nThere are two kinds of theory of mind representations: cognitive (concerning the mental states, beliefs, thoughts, and intentions of others) and affective (concerning the emotions of others). Cognitive theory of mind is further separated into first order (e.g., I think she thinks that…) and second order (e.g., he thinks that she thinks that…). There is evidence that cognitive and affective theory of mind processes are functionally independent from one another. In studies of Alzheimer’s disease, which typically occurs in older adults, the patients display impairment with second order cognitive theory of mind, but usually not with first order cognitive or affective theory of mind. However, it is difficult to discern a clear pattern of theory of mind variation due to age. There have been many discrepancies in the data collected thus far, likely due to small sample sizes and the use of different tasks that only explore one aspect of theory of mind. Many researchers suggest that the theory of mind impairment is simply due to the normal decline in cognitive function.\n\nResearchers have proposed that five key aspects of theory of mind develop sequentially for all children between the ages of three to five. This five-step theory of mind scale consists of the development of diverse desires (DD), diverse beliefs (DB), knowledge access (KA), false beliefs (FB), and hidden emotions (HE). Australian, American and European children acquire theory of mind in this exact order, and studies with children in Canada, India, Peru, Samoa, and Thailand indicate that they all pass the false belief task at around the same time, suggesting that the children develop theory of mind consistently around the world.\n\nHowever, children from Iran and China develop theory of mind in a slightly different order. Although they begin the development of theory of mind around the same time, toddlers from these countries understand knowledge access (KA) before Western children but take longer to understand false beliefs (FB). Researchers believe this swap in the developmental order is related to the culture of collectivism in Iran and China, which emphasizes interdependence and shared knowledge as opposed to the culture of individualism in Western countries, which promotes individuality and conflicting opinions. Because of these different cultural values, Iranian and Chinese children might take longer to understand that other people have different, sometimes false, beliefs. This suggests that the development of theory of mind is not universal and solely determined by innate brain processes but also influenced by social and cultural factors.\n\nWhether children younger than 3 or 4 years old may have any theory of mind is a topic of debate among researchers. It is a challenging question, due to the difficulty of assessing what pre-linguistic children understand about others and the world. Tasks used in research into the development of Theory of Mind must take into account the \"umwelt\"—(the German word \"Umwelt\" means \"environment\" or \"surrounding world\")—of the pre-verbal child.\n\nOne of the most important milestones in theory of mind development is gaining the ability to attribute \"false belief\": that is, to recognize that others can have beliefs about the world that are diverging. To do this, it is suggested, one must understand how knowledge is formed, that people's beliefs are based on their knowledge, that mental states can differ from reality, and that people's behavior can be predicted by their mental states. Numerous versions of the false-belief task have been developed, based on the initial task done by Wimmer and Perner (1983).\n\nIn the most common version of the false-belief task (often called the \"'Sally-Anne' test\" or \"'Sally-Anne' task\"), children are told or shown a story involving two characters. For example, the child is shown two dolls, Sally and Anne, who have a basket and a box, respectively. Sally also has a marble, which she places into her basket, and then leaves the room. While she is out of the room, Anne takes the marble from the basket and puts it into the box. Sally returns, and the child is then asked where Sally will look for the marble. The child passes the task if she answers that Sally will look in the basket, where Sally put the marble; the child fails the task if she answers that Sally will look in the box, where the child knows the marble is hidden, even though Sally cannot know this, since she did not see it hidden there. To pass the task, the child must be able to understand that another's mental representation of the situation is different from their own, and the child must be able to predict behavior based on that understanding.\nAnother example is when a boy leaves chocolate on a shelf and then leaves the room. His mother puts it in the fridge. To pass the task, the child must understand that the boy, upon returning, holds the false belief that his chocolate is still on the shelf.\n\nThe results of research using false-belief tasks have been fairly consistent: most normally developing children are able to pass the tasks from around age four. Notably, while most children, including those with Down syndrome, are able to pass this test, in one study, 80% of children diagnosed with autism were \"unable\" to do so.\n\nAlso adults can experience problems with false beliefs. For instance, when they show hindsight bias, defined as: \"the inclination to see events that have already happened as being more predictable than they were before they took place.\" In an experiment by Fischhoff in 1975, adult subjects who were asked for an independent assessment were unable to disregard information on actual outcome. Also in experiments with complicated situations, when assessing others' thinking, adults can be unable to disregard certain information that they have been given.\n\nOther tasks have been developed to try to solve the problems inherent in the false-belief task. In the \"Unexpected contents\", or \"Smarties\" task, experimenters ask children what they believe to be the contents of a box that looks as though it holds a candy called \"Smarties\". After the child guesses (usually) \"Smarties\", it is shown that the box in fact contained pencils. The experimenter then re-closes the box and asks the child what she thinks another person, who has not been shown the true contents of the box, will think is inside. The child passes the task if he/she responds that another person will think that \"Smarties\" exist in the box, but fails the task if she responds that another person will think that the box contains pencils. Gopnik & Astington (1988) found that children pass this test at age four or five years.\n\nThe \"false-photograph\" task is another task that serves as a measure of theory of mind development. In this task, children must reason about what is represented in a photograph that differs from the current state of affairs. Within the false-photograph task, either a location or identity change exists. In the location-change task, the examiner puts an object in one location (\"e.g.\", chocolate in an open green cupboard), whereupon the child takes a Polaroid photograph of the scene. While the photograph is developing, the examiner moves the object to a different location (\"e.g.\", a blue cupboard), allowing the child to view the examiner's action. The examiner asks the child two control questions: \"When we first took the picture, where was the object?\" and \"Where is the object now?\". The subject is also asked a \"false-photograph\" question: \"Where is the object in the picture?\" The child passes the task if he/she correctly identifies the location of the object in the picture and the actual location of the object at the time of the question. However, the last question might be misinterpreted as: \"Where in this room is the object that the picture depicts?\" and therefore some examiners use an alternative phrasing.\n\nTo make it easier for animals, young children, and individuals with classical (Kanner-type) autism to understand and perform theory of mind tasks, researchers have developed tests in which verbal communication is de-emphasized: some whose administration does not involve verbal communication on the part of the examiner, some whose successful completion does not require verbal communication on the part of the subject, and some that meet both of the foregoing standards. One category of tasks uses a preferential looking paradigm, with looking time as the dependent variable. For instance, 9-month-old infants prefer looking at behaviors performed by a human hand over those made by an inanimate hand-like object. Other paradigms look at rates of imitative behavior, the ability to replicate and complete unfinished goal-directed acts, and rates of pretend play.\n\nRecent research on the early precursors of theory of mind has looked at innovative ways at capturing preverbal infants' understanding of other people's mental states, including perception and beliefs. Using a variety of experimental procedures, studies have shown that infants from their first year of life have an implicit understanding of what other people see and what they know. A popular paradigm used to study infants' theory of mind is the violation of expectation procedure, which predicates on infants' tendency to look longer at unexpected and surprising events compared to familiar and expected events. Therefore, their looking-times measures would give researchers an indication of what infants might be inferring, or their implicit understanding of events. One recent study using this paradigm found that 16-month-olds tend to attribute beliefs to a person whose visual perception was previously witnessed as being \"reliable\", compared to someone whose visual perception was \"unreliable\". Specifically, 16-month-olds were trained to expect a person's excited vocalization and gaze into a container to be associated with finding a toy in the reliable-looker condition or an absence of a toy in the unreliable-looker condition. Following this training phase, infants witnessed, in an object-search task, the same persons either searching for a toy in the correct or incorrect location after they both witnessed the location of where the toy was hidden. Infants who experienced the reliable looker were surprised and therefore looked longer when the person searched for the toy in the incorrect location compared to the correct location. In contrast, the looking time for infants who experienced the unreliable looker did not differ for either search locations. These findings suggest that 16-month-old infants can differentially attribute beliefs about a toy's location based on the person's prior record of visual perception.\n\nThe theory of mind impairment describes a difficulty someone would have with perspective-taking. This is also sometimes referred to as \"mind-blindness\". This means that individuals with a theory of mind impairment would have a difficult time seeing phenomena from any other perspective than their own. Individuals who experience a theory of mind deficit have difficulty determining the intentions of others, lack understanding of how their behavior affects others, and have a difficult time with social reciprocity. Theory of Mind deficits have been observed in people with autism spectrum disorders, people with schizophrenia, people with nonverbal learning disorder, people with attention deficit disorder, persons under the influence of alcohol and narcotics, sleep-deprived persons, and persons who are experiencing severe emotional or physical pain. Theory of mind deficits have also been observed in deaf children who are late signers (i.e., are born to hearing parents), but the deficit is due to the delay in language learning, not any cognitive deficit, and therefore disappears once the child learns sign language.\n\nIn 1985 Simon Baron-Cohen, Alan M. Leslie and Uta Frith suggested that children with autism do not employ theory of mind and suggested that autistic children have particular difficulties with tasks requiring the child to understand another person's beliefs. These difficulties persist when children are matched for verbal skills and have been taken as a key feature of autism.\n\nMany individuals classified as autistic have severe difficulty assigning mental states to others, and they seem to lack theory of mind capabilities. Researchers who study the relationship between autism and theory of mind attempt to explain the connection in a variety of ways. One account assumes that theory of mind plays a role in the attribution of mental states to others and in childhood pretend play. According to Leslie, theory of mind is the capacity to mentally represent thoughts, beliefs, and desires, regardless of whether or not the circumstances involved are real. This might explain why some autistic individuals show extreme deficits in both theory of mind and pretend play. However, Hobson proposes a social-affective justification, which suggests that with an autistic person, deficits in theory of mind result from a distortion in understanding and responding to emotions. He suggests that typically developing human beings, unlike autistic individuals, are born with a set of skills (such as social referencing ability) that later lets them comprehend and react to other people's feelings. Other scholars emphasize that autism involves a specific developmental delay, so that autistic children vary in their deficiencies, because they experience difficulty in different stages of growth. Very early setbacks can alter proper advancement of joint-attention behaviors, which may lead to a failure to form a full theory of mind.\n\nIt has been speculated that Theory of Mind exists on a continuum as opposed to the traditional view of a discrete presence or absence. While some research has suggested that some autistic populations are unable to attribute mental states to others, recent evidence points to the possibility of coping mechanisms that facilitate a spectrum of mindful behavior.\nTine et al. suggest that autistic children score substantially lower on measures of social theory of mind in comparison to children diagnosed with Asperger syndrome.\n\nGenerally, children with more advanced theory of mind abilities display more advanced social skills, greater adaptability to new situations, and greater cooperation with others. As a result, these children are typically well-liked. However, “children may use their mind-reading abilities to manipulate, outwit, tease, or trick their peers”. Individuals possessing inferior theory of mind skills, such as children with autism spectrum disorder, may be socially rejected by their peers since they are unable communicate effectively. Social rejection has been proven to negatively impact a child’s development and can put the child at greater risk of developing depressive symptoms.\n\nPeer-mediated interventions (PMI) are a school-based treatment approach for children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorder in which peers are trained to be role models in order to promote social behavior. Laghi et al. studied if analysis of prosocial (nice) and antisocial (nasty) theory of mind behaviors could be used, in addition to teacher recommendations, to select appropriate candidates for PMI programs. Selecting children with advanced theory of mind skills who use them in prosocial ways will theoretically make the program more effective. While the results indicated that analyzing the social uses of theory of mind of possible candidates for a PMI program is invaluable, it may not be a good predictor of a candidate's performance as a role model.\n\nThe autistic deficit in Theory of Mind has been challenged by some, who cite both insufficient evidence and contradictory evidence. An alternate theory of apparent Theory of Mind deficits comes out of the social model of disability, and posits that such deficits are a result of autistic individuals' status as a neurological minority, and the challenges that result from having to model the typical (non-spectrum) mind against their own, resulting in deficits compared with a typical mind modeling another typical mind.\n\nIndividuals with the diagnosis of schizophrenia can show deficits in theory of mind. Mirjam Sprong and colleagues investigated the impairment by examining 29 different studies, with a total of over 1500 participants. This meta-analysis showed significant and stable deficit of theory of mind in people with schizophrenia. They performed poorly on false-belief tasks, which test the ability to understand that others can hold false beliefs about events in the world, and also on intention-inference tasks, which assess the ability to infer a character's intention from reading a short story. Schizophrenia patients with negative symptoms, such as lack of emotion, motivation, or speech, have the most impairment in theory of mind and are unable to represent the mental states of themselves and of others. Paranoid schizophrenic patients also perform poorly because they have difficulty accurately interpreting others' intentions. The meta-analysis additionally showed that IQ, gender, and age of the participants does not significantly affect the performance of theory of mind tasks.\n\nCurrent research suggests that impairment in theory of mind negatively affects clinical insight, the patient's awareness of their mental illness. Insight requires theory of mind—a patient must be able to adopt a third-person perspective and see the self as others do. A patient with good insight would be able to accurately self-represent, by comparing oneself with others and by viewing oneself from the perspective of others. Insight allows a patient to recognize and react appropriately to his symptoms; however, a patient who lacks insight would not realize that he has a mental illness, because of his inability to accurately self-represent. Therapies that teach patients perspective-taking and self-reflection skills can improve abilities in reading social cues and taking the perspective of another person.\n\nThe majority of the current literature supports the argument that the theory of mind deficit is a stable trait-characteristic rather than a state-characteristic of schizophrenia. The meta-analysis conducted by Sprong et al. showed that patients in remission still had impairment in theory of mind. The results indicate that the deficit is not merely a consequence of the active phase of schizophrenia.\n\nSchizophrenic patients' deficit in theory of mind impairs their daily interactions with others. An example of a disrupted interaction is one between a schizophrenic parent and a child. Theory of mind is particularly important for parents, who must understand the thoughts and behaviors of their children and react accordingly. Dysfunctional parenting is associated with deficits in the first-order theory of mind, the ability to understand another person's thoughts, and the second-order theory of mind, the ability to infer what one person thinks about another person's thoughts. Compared with healthy mothers, mothers with schizophrenia are found to be more remote, quiet, self-absorbed, insensitive, unresponsive, and to have fewer satisfying interactions with their children. They also tend to misinterpret their children's emotional cues, and often misunderstand neutral faces as negative. Activities such as role-playing and individual or group-based sessions are effective interventions that help the parents improve on perspective-taking and theory of mind. Although there is a strong association between theory of mind deficit and parental role dysfunction, future studies could strengthen the relationship by possibly establishing a causal role of theory of mind on parenting abilities.\n\nImpairments in theory of mind, as well as other social-cognitive deficits are commonly found in people suffering from alcoholism, due to the neurotoxic effects of alcohol on the brain, particularly the prefrontal cortex.\n\nIndividuals in a current major depressive episode, a disorder characterized by social impairment, show deficits in theory of mind decoding. Theory of mind decoding is the ability to use information available in the immediate environment (e.g., facial expression, tone of voice, body posture) to accurately label the mental states of others. The opposite pattern, enhanced theory of mind, is observed in individuals vulnerable to depression, including those individuals with past Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), dysphoric individuals, and individuals with a maternal history of MDD.\n\nChildren diagnosed with Developmental language disorder (DLD) exhibit much lower scores on reading and writing sections of standardized tests, yet have a normal nonverbal IQ. These language deficits can be any specific deficits in lexical semantics, syntax, or pragmatics, or a combination of multiple problems. They often exhibit poorer social skills than normally developing children, and seem to have problems decoding beliefs in others. A recent meta-analysis confirmed that children with DLD have substantially lower scores on theory of mind tasks compared to typically developing children.\n\nResearch on theory of mind in autism led to the view that mentalizing abilities are subserved by dedicated mechanisms that can -in some cases- be impaired while general cognitive function remains largely intact.\n\nNeuroimaging research has supported this view, demonstrating specific brain regions consistently engaged during theory of mind tasks. PET research on theory of mind, using verbal and pictorial story comprehension tasks, has identified a set of brain regions including the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), and area around posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS), and sometimes precuneus and amygdala/temporopolar cortex. Subsequently, research on the neural basis of theory of mind has diversified, with separate lines of research focused on the understanding of beliefs, intentions, and more complex properties of minds such as psychological traits.\n\nStudies from Rebecca Saxe's lab at MIT, using a false-belief versus false-photograph task contrast aimed at isolating the mentalizing component of the false-belief task, have very consistently found activation in mPFC, precuneus, and temporo-parietal junction (TPJ), right-lateralized. In particular, it has been proposed that the right TPJ (rTPJ) is selectively involved in representing the beliefs of others. However, some debate exists, as some scientists have noted that the same rTPJ region has been consistently activated during spatial reorienting of visual attention; Jean Decety from the University of Chicago and Jason Mitchell from Harvard have thus proposed that the rTPJ subserves a more general function involved in both false-belief understanding and attentional reorienting, rather than a mechanism specialized for social cognition. However, it is possible that the observation of overlapping regions for representing beliefs and attentional reorienting may simply be due to adjacent, but distinct, neuronal populations that code for each. The resolution of typical fMRI studies may not be good enough to show that distinct/adjacent neuronal populations code for each of these processes. In a study following Decety and Mitchell, Saxe and colleagues used higher-resolution fMRI and showed that the peak of activation for attentional reorienting is approximately 6-10mm above the peak for representing beliefs. Further corroborating that differing populations of neurons may code for each process, they found no similarity in the patterning of fMRI response across space.\n\nFunctional imaging has also been used to study the detection of mental state information in Heider-Simmel-esque animations of moving geometric shapes, which typical humans automatically perceive as social interactions laden with intention and emotion. Three studies found remarkably similar patterns of activation during the perception of such animations versus a random or deterministic motion control: mPFC, pSTS, fusiform face area (FFA), and amygdala were selectively engaged during the Theory of Mind condition. Another study presented subjects with an animation of two dots moving with a parameterized degree of intentionality (quantifying the extent to which the dots chased each other), and found that pSTS activation correlated with this parameter.\n\nA separate body of research has implicated the posterior superior temporal sulcus in the perception of intentionality in human action; this area is also involved in perceiving biological motion, including body, eye, mouth, and point-light display motion. One study found increased pSTS activation while watching a human lift his hand versus having his hand pushed up by a piston (intentional versus unintentional action). Several studies have found increased pSTS activation when subjects perceive a human action that is incongruent with the action expected from the actor's context and inferred intention. Examples would be: a human performing a reach-to-grasp motion on empty space next to an object, versus grasping the object; a human shifting eye gaze toward empty space next to a checkerboard target versus shifting gaze toward the target; an unladen human turning on a light with his knee, versus turning on a light with his knee while carrying a pile of books; and a walking human pausing as he passes behind a bookshelf, versus walking at a constant speed. In these studies, actions in the \"congruent\" case have a straightforward goal, and are easy to explain in terms of the actor's intention. The incongruent actions, on the other hand, require further explanation (why would someone twist empty space next to a gear?), and then apparently would demand more processing in the STS. Note that this region is distinct from the temporo-parietal area activated during false belief tasks. Also note that pSTS activation in most of the above studies was largely right-lateralized, following the general trend in neuroimaging studies of social cognition and perception. Also right-lateralized are the TPJ activation during false belief tasks, the STS response to biological motion, and the FFA response to faces.\n\nNeuropsychological evidence has provided support for neuroimaging results regarding the neural basis of theory of mind. Studies with patients suffering from a lesion of the frontal lobes and the temporoparietal junction of the brain (between the temporal lobe and parietal lobe) reported that they have difficulty with some theory of mind tasks. This shows that theory of mind abilities are associated with specific parts of the human brain. However, the fact that the medial prefrontal cortex and temporoparietal junction are necessary for theory of mind tasks does not imply that these regions are specific to that function. TPJ and mPFC may subserve more general functions necessary for Theory of Mind.\n\nResearch by Vittorio Gallese, Luciano Fadiga and Giacomo Rizzolatti (reviewed in) has shown that some sensorimotor neurons, which are referred to as mirror neurons, first discovered in the premotor cortex of rhesus monkeys, may be involved in action understanding. Single-electrode recording revealed that these neurons fired when a monkey performed an action, as well as when the monkey viewed another agent carrying out the same task. Similarly, fMRI studies with human participants have shown brain regions (assumed to contain mirror neurons) that are active when one person sees another person's goal-directed action. These data have led some authors to suggest that mirror neurons may provide the basis for theory of mind in the brain, and to support simulation theory of mind reading (see above).\n\nThere is also evidence against the link between mirror neurons and theory of mind. First, macaque monkeys have mirror neurons but do not seem to have a 'human-like' capacity to understand theory of mind and belief. Second, fMRI studies of theory of mind typically report activation in the mPFC, temporal poles and TPJ or STS, but these brain areas are not part of the mirror neuron system. Some investigators, like developmental psychologist Andrew Meltzoff and neuroscientist Jean Decety, believe that mirror neurons merely facilitate learning through imitation and may provide a precursor to the development of Theory of Mind. Others, like philosopher Shaun Gallagher, suggest that mirror-neuron activation, on a number of counts, fails to meet the definition of simulation as proposed by the simulation theory of mindreading.\n\nIn a recent paper, Keren Haroush and Ziv Williams outlined the case for a group of neurons in primates' brains that uniquely predicted the choice selection of their interacting partner. These primates' neurons, located in the anterior cingulate cortex of rhesus monkeys, were observed using single-unit recording while the monkeys played a variant of the iterative prisoner's dilemma game. By identifying cells that represent the yet unknown intentions of a game partner, Haroush & Williams' study supports the idea that theory of mind may be a fundamental and generalized process, and suggests that \"anterior cingulate cortex\" neurons may potentially act to complement the function of mirror neurons during social interchange.\n\nSeveral neuroimaging studies have looked at the neural basis theory of mind impairment in subjects with Asperger syndrome and high-functioning autism (HFA). The first PET study of theory of mind in autism (also the first neuroimaging study using a task-induced activation paradigm in autism) replicated a prior study in normal individuals, which employed a story-comprehension task. This study found displaced and diminished mPFC activation in subjects with autism. However, because the study used only six subjects with autism, and because the spatial resolution of PET imaging is relatively poor, these results should be considered preliminary.\n\nA subsequent fMRI study scanned normally developing adults and adults with HFA while performing a \"reading the mind in the eyes\" task: viewing a photo of a human's eyes and choosing which of two adjectives better describes the person's mental state, versus a gender discrimination control. The authors found activity in orbitofrontal cortex, STS, and amygdala in normal subjects, and found no amygdala activation and abnormal STS activation in subjects with autism.\n\nA more recent PET study looked at brain activity in individuals with HFA and Asperger syndrome while viewing Heider-Simmel animations (see above) versus a random motion control. In contrast to normally developing subjects, those with autism showed no STS or FFA activation, and significantly less mPFC and amygdala activation. Activity in extrastriate regions V3 and LO was identical across the two groups, suggesting intact lower-level visual processing in the subjects with autism. The study also reported significantly less functional connectivity between STS and V3 in the autism group. Note, however, that decreased temporal correlation between activity in STS and V3 would be expected simply from the lack of an evoked response in STS to intent-laden animations in subjects with autism. A more informative analysis would be to compute functional connectivity after regressing out evoked responses from all-time series.\n\nA subsequent study, using the incongruent/congruent gaze-shift paradigm described above, found that in high-functioning adults with autism, posterior STS (pSTS) activation was undifferentiated while they watched a human shift gaze toward a target and then toward adjacent empty space. The lack of additional STS processing in the incongruent state may suggest that these subjects fail to form an expectation of what the actor should do given contextual information, or that feedback about the violation of this expectation doesn't reach STS. Both explanations involve an impairment in the ability to link eye gaze shifts with intentional explanations. This study also found a significant anticorrelation between STS activation in the incongruent-congruent contrast and social subscale score on the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised, but not scores on the other subscales.\n\nIn 2011, an fMRI study demonstrated that the right temporoparietal junction (rTPJ) of higher-functioning adults with autism was not more selectively activated for mentalizing judgments when compared to physical judgments about self and other. rTPJ selectivity for mentalizing was also related to individual variation on clinical measures of social impairment: individuals whose rTPJ was increasingly more active for mentalizing compared to physical judgments were less socially impaired, while those who showed little to no difference in response to mentalizing or physical judgments were the most socially impaired. This evidence builds on work in typical development that suggests rTPJ is critical for representing mental state information, irrespective of whether it is about oneself or others. It also points to an explanation at the neural level for the pervasive mind-blindness difficulties in autism that are evident throughout the lifespan.\n\nThe brain regions associated with theory of mind include the superior temporal gyrus (STS), the temporoparietal junction (TPJ), the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), the precuneus, and the amygdala. The reduced activity in the MPFC of individuals with schizophrenia is associated with the Theory of mind deficit and may explain impairments in social function among people with schizophrenia. Increased neural activity in MPFC is related to better perspective-taking, emotion management, and increased social functioning. Disrupted brain activities in areas related to theory of mind may increase social stress or disinterest in social interaction, and contribute to the social dysfunction associated with schizophrenia.\n\nGroup member average scores of theory of mind abilities, measured with the Reading the Mind in the Eyes test (RME), are suggested as drivers of successful group performance. In particular, high group average scores on the RME are shown to be correlated with the collective intelligence factor \"c\" defined as a group's ability to perform a wide range of mental tasks, a group intelligence measure similar to the \"g\" factor for general individual intelligence. RME is a Theory of Mind test for adults that shows sufficient test-retest reliability and constantly differentiates control groups from individuals with functional autism or Asperger syndrome. It is one of the most widely accepted and well-validated tests for Theory of Mind abilities within adults.\n\nThe evolutionary origin of theory of mind remains obscure. While many theories make claims about its role in the development of human language and social cognition few of them specify in detail any evolutionary neurophysiological precursors. A recent theory claims that Theory of Mind has its roots in two defensive reactions, namely immobilization stress and tonic immobility, which are implicated in the handling of stressful encounters and also figure prominently in mammalian childrearing practices (Tsoukalas, 2018). Their combined effect seems capable of producing many of the hallmarks of theory of mind, e.g., eye-contact, gaze-following, inhibitory control and intentional attributions.\n\nAn open question is if other animals besides humans have a genetic endowment and social environment that allows them to acquire a theory of mind in the same way that human children do. This is a contentious issue because of the problem of inferring from animal behavior the existence of thinking or of particular thoughts, or the existence of a concept of self or self-awareness, consciousness and qualia. One difficulty with non-human studies of Theory of Mind is the lack of sufficient numbers of naturalistic observations, giving insight into what the evolutionary pressures might be on a species' development of theory of mind.\n\nNon-human research still has a major place in this field, however, and is especially useful in illuminating which nonverbal behaviors signify components of theory of mind, and in pointing to possible stepping points in the evolution of what many claim to be a uniquely human aspect of social cognition. While it is difficult to study human-like theory of mind and mental states in species whose potential mental states we have an incomplete understanding, researchers can focus on simpler components of more complex capabilities. For example, many researchers focus on animals' understanding of intention, gaze, perspective, or knowledge (or rather, what another being has seen). Call and Tomasello's study that looked at understanding of intention in orangutans, chimpanzees and children showed that all three species understood the difference between accidental and intentional acts. Part of the difficulty in this line of research is that observed phenomena can often be explained as simple stimulus-response learning, as it is in the nature of any theorizers of mind to have to extrapolate internal mental states from observable behavior. Recently, most non-human theory of mind research has focused on monkeys and great apes, who are of most interest in the study of the evolution of human social cognition. Other studies relevant to attributions theory of mind have been conducted using plovers and dogs, and have shown preliminary evidence of understanding attention—one precursor of theory of mind—in others.\n\nThere has been some controversy over the interpretation of evidence purporting to show theory of mind ability—or inability—in animals. Two examples serve as demonstration: first, Povinelli \"et al.\" (1990) presented chimpanzees with the choice of two experimenters from whom to request food: one who had seen where food was hidden, and one who, by virtue of one of a variety of mechanisms (having a bucket or bag over his head; a blindfold over his eyes; or being turned away from the baiting) does not know, and can only guess. They found that the animals failed in most cases to differentially request food from the \"knower\". By contrast, Hare, Call, and Tomasello (2001) found that subordinate chimpanzees were able to use the knowledge state of dominant rival chimpanzees to determine which container of hidden food they approached. William Field and Sue Savage-Rumbaugh have no doubt that bonobos have developed Theory of Mind and cite their communications with a well known captive bonobo, Kanzi, as evidence.\n\nIn a 2016 experiment, ravens \"Corvus corax\" were shown to take into account visual access of unseen conspecifics. It is suspected that \"ravens can generalize from their own perceptual experience to infer the possibility of being seen\".\n\nA 2016 study published by evolutionary anthropologist Christopher Krupenye brings new light to the existence of Theory of Mind, and particularly false beliefs, in non-human primates.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4049455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4049455", "title": "Theosophical Society in America (Hargrove)", "text": "Theosophical Society in America (Hargrove)\n\nThe Theosophical Society in America (Hargrove branch) was an organization that developed from the Theosophical Society in America.\n\nIn 1895 a division occurred between the Theosophical Society Adyar and the Theosophical Society Pasadena, leading William Quan Judge to form a separate organization distinct from the organization mased in Adyar, headed by Annie Besant. After the death of Judge, Ernest Temple Hargrove, who was Judge's secretary at the time, found evidence that Judge had intended a successor. In 1898, Katherine Tingley was elected president of the TSA, with Hargrove's initial support. Hargrove later came to disagree with Tingley, and later broke away with roughly 200 other members to form the Theosophical Society in America. A.H. Spencer and later Hargrove became president of this new organization. The society was oriented towards WQ Judge's principles. Their headquarters were located in New York City, while Tingley relocated hers to Lomaland in Point Loma, California. In 1906 or 1907 this branch including Hargrove gave Robert Crosbie a deed of foundation to found a lodge in Los Angeles. Hargrove can thus be seen as an obstetrician to the United Lodge of Theosophists. The organization was renamed \"The Theosophical Society\" in 1908.\n\nOriginal members of this branch included: Dr. Archibald Keightley and his wife Julia van der Planck (a.k.a. \"Jasper Niemand\"); Noted Sanskritist and his wife Vera Jelihovsky Johnston, a niece of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky; Clement Acton Griscom Jr. and his wife Genevieve Ludlow Griscom (a.k.a. \"Cavé\"); Henry Bedinger Mitchell and his brother John F. B. Mitchell. A number of branches of the organization existed throughout North America, as well as several in the UK, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, and Venezuela. The publishing arm of this branch, known as The Quarterly Book Department published a great deal of theosophical literature until the late 1930s. Their main publication was the journal \"The Theosophical Quarterly\" (1903–1938). The last issue announces the cessation of publication and the onset of a period of \"indrawal\" of the society. Hargrove died in on April 8, 1939. The last annual convention of this branch was held in New York in 1943, where the members agreed to formally disband and entered into \"indrawal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "473438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473438", "title": "Torah im Derech Eretz", "text": "Torah im Derech Eretz\n\nTorah im Derech Eretz ( – Torah with \"the way of the land\") is a philosophy of Orthodox Judaism articulated by Rabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch (1808–88), which formalizes a relationship between traditionally observant Judaism and the modern world. Some refer to the resultant mode of Orthodox Judaism as Neo-Orthodoxy.\n\nThe phrase \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" is first found in the Mishna in Tractate \"Avoth\" (2:2): \"Beautiful is the study of Torah with \"derech eretz\", as involvement with both makes one forget sin\". The term \"derech eretz\", literally \"the way of the land\", is inherently ambiguous, with a wide range of meanings in Rabbinic literature, referring to earning a livelihood and behaving appropriately, among others.\n\nIn the Talmud and Midrash, there are approximately 200 teachings concerning \"derech eretz\" as decent, polite, respectful, thoughtful, and civilized behavior. One representative teaching is that \"Derech eretz comes before Torah\" (\"Midrash Vayikra Rabbah\" 9:3) – one cannot personify Torah until he demonstrates \"derech eretz\" in everything that he does. There are many more such teachings in the rishonim and acharonim (post-Talmudic authorities). The mussar literature, in fact, presents an entire body of thought devoted to the subject of \"middot\" (character traits) and \"behaving like a \"mentsh\"\" (refined human being). Here, the way that one behaves is regarded as an external manifestation of one's \"middot\".\n\nThe meaning of \"Derech Eretz\" in the above Mishna is generally taken as \"earning a livelihood\", and the Mishna is thus read as \"Beautiful is the study of Torah combined with 'earning a livelihood'\". In consonance, Rabbinic opinion has a general requirement for earning a livelihood, but in such a fashion that one may also study, and live, Torah; see also \"Kiddushin\" 4:14.\n\nThis opinion, in fact, extends to codification in Jewish Law: \"[One] should work every day, sufficient for his living... and should busy himself with Torah the rest of the day and night; one who supports himself with his own hands is on a great level\".\n\nThe language of this codification is representative of the general value assigned by Rabbinic literature to work in and of itself, and of the simultaneous requirement that work be seen as means to spiritual, and not material, goals. Thus \"Pirkei Avot\" 4:1:\nThis widely quoted Mishna contains both a requirement to work and a warning against materialism. Rashi, on the verse, similarly states that one who supports himself inherits this world and the next.\n\nRabbinic tradition recognizes that achieving an appropriate balance could pose both practical and philosophic challenges (e.g. the requirement for secular education as opposed to limited vocational training), and the various issues are therefore widely discussed – in various tractates in the Talmud (see \"Berachot\" 35b), in the halakhic literature (e.g. \"Shulchan Aruch\": \"Yoreh Deah\" siman 246, \"Orach Chayim\" siman 156; \"Mishneh Torah\": \"Deot\" Ch.5, \"Talmud Torah\" Ch.3), as well as in Jewish Philosophy, Hasidic thought and Musar (ethical) literature.\n\nMaharal, Judah Loew (1525–1609), points out that \"Derech Eretz\" is not limited to \"earning a living\"; rather, the concept encompasses \"hanhaga tiv`it\", \"operating in the natural world\". Here, Maharal in his \"Derech Chaim\" comments on the later Mishna, \"Avoth\" 3:21, which discusses the interdependence of \"Torah and flour (\"kemakh\")\" as well as the interdependence of \"Torah and \"Derech Eretz\"\". \"Kemakh\", flour, clearly refers to monetary livelihood (with Torah referring to spiritual livelihood). Thus, \"Derech Eretz\" refers to more than just \"earning a livelihood\" and includes the knowledge and skills that facilitate success in the \"world of Nature\". See.\n\nRabbi Samson Raphael Hirsch (18081888), incorporating the above, was among the first to extend the definition of \"Derech Eretz\" to include a broad knowledge of, and appropriate interaction with, culture and society. Hirsch states that \"\"Derech Eretz\" includes everything that results from the fact that man's existence, mission and social life is conducted on Earth, using earthly means and conditions. Therefore this term especially describes ways of earning a livelihood and maintaining the social order. It also includes the customs and considerations of etiquette that the social order generates as well as everything concerning humanistic and civil education\" (commentary on \"Avoth\"). Hirsch's conception also entails the qualification that there be no compromise on strict adherence to Jewish law. The resultant philosophy of Orthodox Judaism in the modern world, referred to as \"Torah im Derech Eretz\", is discussed below.\n\nWhen Hirsch first came to Frankfurt in 1851, he proclaimed \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" as the \"banner\" for his congregation, the \"Israelitische Religionsgesellschaft \" — the phrase has since been synonymous with Hirsch as well as with his philosophy. As seen, Hirsch was not unique in extending \"Derech Eretz\" to include broad knowledge of the secular world; rather, his role was to formalize a philosophy of \"Derech Eretz\" that incorporated a practical response to modernity. In Hirsch's view, \"derech eretz\" refers not only to livelihood, but also to the social order, with the associated mores and considerations of courtesy and propriety, as well as to general education. Hirsch thus developed the concept of \"derech eretz\" to embrace Western culture while maintaining strict adherence to Jewish law (see and ).\n\nHirsch seeks to demonstrate in all his writings that the combination of Torah and \"Derech Eretz\" is not only possible but necessary if Judaism is to dominate not only the religious sphere of personal and communal life, but the secular, mundane sphere as well. To Hirsch, the fulfillment of Torah—\"Derech Eretz\"—therefore requires worldly involvement and general participation in society, as facilitated by the requisite knowledge.\n\nIn Hirsch's view, Judaism must \"include the conscientious promotion of education and culture\". Hirsch speaks of the \"Mensch-Yisroel\" (\"Israel-man\"), the \"enlightened religious personality\" as an ideal: that is the Jew who is proudly Jewish, a believer in the eternal values of the Torah, but also possessing the ability to engage with and influence contemporary culture and knowledge.\n\nImportantly, Hirsch was very clear that \"Derech Eretz\" in no sense allows for halakhic compromise. In his view, Judaism is \"an untouchable sanctuary which must not be subjected to human judgment nor subordinated to human considerations\" and \"progress is valid only to the extent that it does not interfere with religion\". He states that \"the Jew will not want to accomplish anything that he cannot accomplish as a Jew. Any step which takes him away from Judaism is not for him a step forward, is not progress. He exercises this self-control without a pang, for he does not wish to accomplish his own will on earth but labours in the service of God.\" In \"The Nineteen Letters of Ben Uziel\" Hirsch remarked that it would have been better for the Jews not to have been emancipated if the price they had to pay was assimilation. (See also, Modern Orthodox Judaism#Standards of observance.)\n\nThe philosophy of \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" has been variously interpreted within Orthodoxy. The range of interpretations arises particularly in light of the tension between Hirsch's insistence as to faithfulness to Jewish law and tradition, and the challenges posed to this by interaction with the secular world.\n\nUnder a \"narrow interpretation\", exposure to secular philosophy, music, art, literature, or ethics must be functional. Under a \"median interpretation\", this exposure is permissible, and even required, for the sake of the domination of Torah values over one's worldly matters. Under a \"broad interpretation\" this exposure is permissible, providing a complement to ― and even a synthesis with ― Torah.\n\nThus as regards involvement in the secular world, the \"narrow interpretation\" essentially restricts \"Derech Eretz\" to a gainful occupation; permissible knowledge would be limited to functional and occupation related knowledge, and (possibly) secular knowledge that enables one to better interpret and understand the Torah. The \"median interpretation\" encourages the study of secular knowledge, but only insofar as this permits application of a Torah outlook and philosophy to human knowledge and culture. The \"broad interpretation\" permits the general acquisition of secular culture and knowledge as valuable in its own right.\nHirsch himself appears to have embraced the \"median interpretation\", albeit with the qualifications above. He states that \"\"Torah im Derech Eretz\", as used by our sages, means the realization of Torah in harmonious unity with all the conditions under which its laws will have to be observed amidst the developments of changing times\" (\"Gesammelte Schriften\" vii p. 294). Thus on a regular basis, he quotes secular scientists in his Torah commentary. Some scholars believe that he was influenced by Hegel and Friedrich Schiller; in fact, in a speech given in the school he founded on the centenary of the birth of the latter, he claimed that the universalistic principles of Western culture embodied in Schiller's writings are Jewish values originating in the Torah.\n\nOn the other hand, Hirsch cautioned as to the danger of scientific knowledge leading one away from God; further, his schools, unlike others in Germany at the time, taught modern (business) languages as opposed to classical languages. Famously, in his commentary to Leviticus 18:4-5 (see also Rashi \"ad loc.\"), Hirsch clearly delineates the relationship of secular knowledge and Torah, where Torah is \"\"ikkar\" (עיקר), the essential, while secular knowledge is \"tefel\"\" (טפל), secondary or supplementary to Torah. He states that \"[w]e are confident that there is only one truth, and only one body of knowledge that can serve as the standard... Compared to it, all the other sciences are valid only provisionally\".\n\nHis commentary on Deuteronomy 6:7 is perhaps more explicit:\n\nIn 1851, Hirsch was called to become the rabbi of the breakaway Orthodox community of Frankfurt am Main. This community soon became the model for \"modern communities\" strict in adherence to Orthodox practices, sometimes called, \"Frankfurter Orthodoxy\". Hirsch's son-in-law Rabbi Dr. Shlomo Zalman (Solomon) Breuer, succeeded him after his death. Wary of establishing a dynasty, the Frankfurt community did not appoint Hirsch's son to be his successor.\n\nAfter World War I, in order to show their rejection of religious liberalism, followers of the community started to call themselves \"Neo-Orthodox\"; this mirrored the parallel movement in Lutheranism (called \"Neo-Orthodoxy\"). Thus, at this point, Hirsch's romantic liberalism and the values of the 1848 struggle for civil rights were less relevant – and the rejection of many elements of Weimar German culture was prevalent. Solomon Breuer and Isaac Breuer were leaders of this conservative turn by the community.\n\nFollowing Kristallnacht, Breuer and his family emigrated to Antwerp, and then to New York City. Once in New York, Breuer started a congregation among the numerous German refugees in Washington Heights, which closely followed the customs and mores of the Frankfurt community. The congregation, Khal Adath Yeshurun, is colloquially known as \"Breuer's\". Rabbi Shimon Schwab, also a native of Frankfurt, served as the second Rabbi of the \"Breuer\" community, until his death in 1995. Solomon Breuer and Joseph Breuer are often regarded as Hirsch's intellectual heirs, while Schwab is regarded as aligned with the more traditional Lithuanian orthodox communities.\n\nThe Breuer community has cautiously applied \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" to American life, narrowing its application over time. Schwab warned of the dangers of contemporary moral attitudes in secular culture and literature, and emphasized that followers of Neo-Orthodoxy therefore require a strong basis of faith and knowledge, and must exercise caution in engagements with the secular world.\n\nSchwab also frequently emphasized that Torah can never be regarded as parallel with the secular knowledge. \"Torah study is the highest duty of the Jew\", and \"even to suggest that anything can be parallel to Torah is a blasphemy of the highest order; Torah is above all, and everything else in life must be conducted in accordance with the Written and Oral Torah.\" Still, entry into commerce or the professions is seen as a valid component of Torah life, to be facilitated by an appropriate secular education (with the caveat that campus life is \"incontestably immoral\"). \"Carrying on one's professional life in consonance with the \"halakha\" is in itself a practice of Torah.\" One must \"establish the Torah's primacy over the modes of business and professional life so that his behavior transforms even that 'mundane' portion of his life into a sanctification.\"\n\nThe community is positioned ideologically outside of both Modern Orthodoxy and Haredi Judaism (\"Ultra-Orthodoxy\"). As regards Haredi Judaism, Schwab acknowledged that although Neo-Orthodoxy is not the path openly espoused by the majority of today's \"Roshei Yeshiva\", the \"Torah Only\" and \"Torah Im Derech Eretz\" camps can exist side-by-side. \"As long as one is prompted solely by \"Yiras Shamayim\" (\"fear of Heaven\") and a search for truth, each individual has a choice as to which school he should follow.\" Practically, the community is fully engaged with haredi Agudath Yisrael of America, while it shuns the more modern Orthodox Union.\n\nThe movement is somewhat distant from Modern Orthodoxy. Schwab regards Modern Orthodoxy as having misinterpreted Hirsch's ideas: regarding standards of \"halakha\" as well as the relative emphasis of Torah versus secular; see discussion under Torah Umadda. Further, Breuer, influenced by Hirsch's philosophy on \"Austritt\" (secession), \"could not countenance recognition of a non-believing body as a legitimate representative of the Jewish people\". For this reason, he was \"unalterably opposed to the \"Mizrachi\" movement, which remained affiliated with the World Zionist Organization and the Jewish Agency\".\n\n\"Torah im Derech Eretz\" remains influential as a philosophy in Orthodox Judaism. Although usually associated with the \"Breuer\" community of Washington Heights, the philosophy remains an important influence in Modern Orthodox Judaism and, to some extent, in \"Haredi Judaism\". (See also Divine Providence for discussion of \"derech eretz\" in contemporary Orthodox Judaism.)\n\n\"Torah im Derech Eretz\" is a major source of ideology for Modern Orthodoxy, particularly regarding the synthesis of Judaism and secular culture. Organizations on the left of Modern Orthodoxy have embraced the \"broad interpretation\", although critics say that, philosophical issues aside, their \"relatively relaxed stance\" in \"halakha\" in fact positions them outside the realm of \"Torah im Derech Eretz\".\n\nFurther to the right, the \"broad interpretation\" is largely identical with \"Torah Umadda\"—Torah and secular knowledge—a philosophy of Modern Orthodoxy closely associated with Yeshiva University, which aims at synthesizing Torah learning and secular knowledge within the personality. The two are nevertheless distinct in terms of emphasis. Under \"Torah Umadda\", \"[w]e prefer to look upon science and religion as separate domains...\" (Samuel Belkin, inaugural address, 1943), whereas \"Torah im Derech Eretz\", aims at the domination of Torah over secular knowledge and the application of Torah thought to secular knowledge. See further under \"Torah Umadda\".\n\nAs above, the \"Breuer\" community continues to closely apply the philosophy. However, since World War II, the community, has moved away from the \"median interpretation\" toward the \"narrow interpretation\", as above. Rabbi Breuer saw the risk of misinterpretation of his grandfather's ideas (and confusion with Torah Umadda) especially post-war. He repeatedly stated that compromising on Jewishness and \"halakha\" was at variance with \"Torah im Derech Eretz\", and emphasized the distinction between Modern Orthodoxy and Neo-Orthodoxy as regards the relationship between Torah and secular. \"Rabbi Hirsch's fight was not for balance and not for reconcilement, nor for synthesis and certainly not for parallel power, but for domination – for the true and absolute domination of the divine precept over the new tendencies\" (Isaac Breuer, Hirsch's grandson). See further in the article on Rabbi Hirsch and additionally under Modern Orthodoxy.\n\nToday, the Haredi \"Yeshiva communities\" adhere to the \"narrow interpretation\" as an educational philosophy. \"Torah im Derech Eretz\" was the basic idea that shaped the curriculum of the Beis Yaakov school system, and continues to be influential. (In fact, in her Seminary in Kraków, Sarah Schenirer taught Rav Hirsch's writings in German. The (German-born) teachers spoke German and the Polish students learned German.) Similarly, the \"narrow interpretation\" guides the curricula at boys' high schools.\n\nOther Haredi communities, the \"Torah only\" school, are further distant from \"Torah im Derech Eretz\". Since World War II there has been an ideological tendency in that camp to devote all intellectual capabilities to Torah study only—in schools, \"yeshivot\" and \"kollels\". Thus, the optimum course to be adopted in all cases is to devote oneself to full-time Torah learning for as long as possible; \"to go out into the world is a course to be adopted only when there is no other alternative\". Here, the Hirschian model is seen as \"horaat sha'ah\", a \"time specific teaching\" intended to apply to the special circumstances of Western Europe in the 1800s. (Note that Hirsch himself addressed this contention: \"\"Torah im Derech Eretz\" ... is not part of troubled, time bound notions; it represents the ancient, traditional wisdom of our sages that has stood the test everywhere and at all times.\" (\"Gesammelte Schriften\" vi p. 221); see further under Joseph Breuer.)\n\n"}
{"id": "32235685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32235685", "title": "Zeena Schreck", "text": "Zeena Schreck\n\nZeena Schreck (born Zeena Galatea LaVey, November 19, 1963), known professionally by her mononymous artist name ZEENA, is a Berlin-based American visual and musical artist, author and the spiritual leader of the Sethian Liberation Movement (SLM), which she founded in 2002.\n\nRaised within her father's organization, the Church of Satan, she came to international prominence early in life as the Church's first spokesperson, defending the organization during the 1980s. In 1990 she resigned her position, severed ties with her father Anton LaVey and his Church, and renounced the church's tenets. Since that time, her religion changed to Buddhism and she is now a teacher of Tibetan Tantric Buddhism.\n\nZeena was born in San Francisco, California to Anton LaVey (April 11, 1930 – October 29, 1997), and Diane Hegarty (b. July 10, 1942), co-founders of the Church of Satan. On May 23, 1967, three-year-old Zeena had the first and most highly publicized Satanic baptism in history performed by her father. The ceremony garnered worldwide publicity with a reenactment of the ceremony recorded for \"The Satanic Mass\" LP.\n\nZeena was subjected to hundreds of journalistic reports and interviews especially in tabloid crime and men's magazines. Anton LaVey biographer, Burton H. Wolf described a thirteen-year-old Zeena in his introduction to her father's \"The Satanic Bible\" as \"Zeena, remembered by people who saw the famous photo of the Satanic Church baptism as a tiny tot, but now a gorgeously developed teenager attracting a growing pack of wolves, human male variety.\" In an interview with \"The Guardsman\", she describes becoming a mother at the age of fourteen while living in \"a stifling, dysfunctional family life.\"\n\nZeena's work as a photographer, visual artist, musician/composer and writer are heavily influenced by mystical and magical traditions. Stylistically, she gravitated at an early age to artists and mentors whose art were also imbued by a mystical or magical vision.\n\nAs a teenager and young adult, she trained in and studied theater, drama and film. At sixteen years of age, Zeena passed the High School equivalency exam, which enabled her to leave High School early, begin working legally and enroll in City College of San Francisco, majoring in Drama. In addition to CCSF's Drama Department, she also received instruction from Stella Adler Studio of Acting, Eric Morris acting coach, Viola Spolin's student Marcia Kimmell of The Next Stage Improvisation Theater San Francisco, and the San Francisco School of Dramatic Arts. Her study focus was Hellenic sacred drama, improvisation, and various branches of the Stanislavski 'system' and method acting.\n\nThe importance of lineage as a vehicle for passing down metaphysical energy guides Zeena's ritual art. She traces the lineage of her magical art to the mentorship of her godfather, filmmaker Kenneth Anger. During the 1960s and 1970s, Anger transmitted the influences of Curtis Harrington, Jean Cocteau, and Maya Deren on his own work to Zeena during her childhood and adolescence.\n\nZeena also became a long-time friend of director Curtis Harrington, who cast her as a Dietrich-like character in his last film, \"Usher\" (2000).\n\nIn 1985, Zeena became the High Priestess of the Church of Satan, and remained its spokesperson until 1990. She would later become a devotee of the ancient Egyptian deity Set, becoming High Priestess of the Temple of Set in 2002, and forming the Sethian Liberation Movement later that same year.\n\nInterviews, articles and reviews between 2011-2013 referenced her conversion to Tibetan Tantric Buddhism in the Drikung, Karma Kagyu and Nyingma lineages, as well as her status as the spiritual leader of the Sethian Liberation Movement (SLM).\n\nIn the 1980s in the United States, there was a moral panic about Satanic ritual abuse, sometimes referred to as the \"Satanic Panic\". It started with the publication of the now-discredited memoir \"Michelle Remembers\" in 1980, and culminated in the McMartin preschool trial, a heavily publicized trial which ran from 1984 to 1990, during which prosecutors, through aggressive and leading questions, managed to get over 300 of the preschool's children to testify that they had been sexually abused by their teachers as part of Satanic rituals. The charges were all eventually dropped. Media coverage during the trial tended to side with the prosecutors, and often singled out the Church of Satan as the culprit. This led Zeena to volunteer to serve as the Church of Satan's first spokesperson. In a September 2011 interview, Zeena recalled,\n\nAs the Church of Satan's spokesperson, Zeena appeared in nationally syndicated programs such as \"The Phil Donahue Show\", \"Nightline with Ted Koppel\", \"Entertainment Tonight\", \"The Late Show\" and \"Secrets & Mysteries\". She also appeared on the \"Sally Jessy Raphael Show\", alongside her husband, debating several Christians who were invited onto the program to expound their own religious views. Internationally, she appeared in such media presentations as Italy's RAI Mixer show and Toronto's Industrial Video presentation dedicated to a compilation of Zeena's TV appearances, ending with a lengthy radio interview for CUIT.\n\nShe was also interviewed in a broadcast of \"Devil Worship: Exposing Satan's Underground\" released by Geraldo Rivera in 1988. Zeena sat alongside Michael A. Aquino (Temple of Set founder/High Priest), and repeatedly denied the rumors circulating at the time that the Church of Satan was in any way involved with ritual abuse. She also called the testimony of claimants involved into question, asking them rhetorically why, if people were being forced to give birth to babies for sacrificial rituals, no remains had ever been found.\n\nIn 1989, Anton LaVey's 1971 book \"The Compleat Witch, or What to Do When Virtue Fails\" was reprinted as \"The Satanic Witch\", with an introduction by Zeena. She toured the U.S. promoting her father's work in his absence, as he was no longer interested in making media appearances. Most of the appearances were made at the behest of the Church of Satan as its spokesperson.\n\nIn 1989, while promoting the book, Zeena appeared with her then husband Nikolas Schreck (not a member of the COS) in an interview with televangelist Bob Larson, during which they both refuted any Satanic criminal ties, and pressed Larson on his own ideals, stating that it was hypocritical of him to endorse such claims by Christians, pointing out the Christian background of many criminals, and violent acts within Christian history, such as the crusades.\n\nZeena's Interview on KJTV with Tony Valdez, 1990, was the last interview she granted as public representative and High Priestess of the Church of Satan before resigning.\n\nIn a March 2013 interview televised by Network Awesome, Zeena spoke for the first time on camera about her experiences with media during the \"Satanic Panic\" years.\n\nZeena was also in regular contact with law enforcement agencies and personnel, including Detective Patrick Metoyer of the LAPD and Robert D. Hicks, law-enforcement specialist with the Virginia Department of Criminal Justice Services and author of several precedent-setting treatises including \"In Pursuit of Satan: The Police and The Occult\". \"In Pursuit of Satan\" began the wave of authoritative reports debunking the Satanic Panic. Much of what Hicks gleaned from Zeena's dialogs with him was included in this treatise. Prior to Zeena's dialogs and meetings with government agencies, police and law enforcement had only a very limited knowledge of Satanism. In 1992, the FBI issued an official report refuting the criminal conspiracy theories of this time.\n\nIn 1990, she resigned from the Church of Satan and renounced LaVeyan Satanism. According to Zeena's official web site, \"In the process of defending the Church of Satan from these unfounded claims in the U.S. mass media, Zeena's media appearances attracted a new upsurge of membership to the formerly moribund organization even as she began to question and ultimately reject the self-centered philosophy she promoted. As she toured the United States on behalf of the Church of Satan, Zeena's crisis of faith reached its highpoint when she learned that most of her father's self-created legend was based on lies and that many of his works were plagiarized. When jealousy and spite motivated Anton LaVey and his administrator Densley-Barton to actually endanger Zeena's life, she could no longer continue to cover up her progenitor's true character in good conscience. This behind the scenes tension should be kept in mind when viewing or hearing Zeena's interviews from that time.\"\n\nAccording to Zeena's homepage, remaining members of the Church of Satan and the LaVey family \"reacted to her resignation by indulging in a typical cult-like character assassination campaign against her.\" Particularly active in the hostility against Zeena were Blanche Barton, Peter H. Gilmore, Peggy Nadramia, Boyd Rice, Lisa Crystal Carver, Daniel Ignace Kapelovitz, Larry Wessel, Stanton and Szandora LaVey.\n\nAfter her renunciation of the Church of Satan, Zeena Schreck severed use of her born name \"LaVey\" and legally changed her last name, for all official matters, to \"Schreck\". In a December 30, 1990 open letter to Michael A. Aquino of the Temple of Set, she stated: \"In light of all of the factors herein, I also officially severed my given surname [LaVey] and now prefer to be known only as Zeena. As I feel naturally aristocratic, I also have no need for the empty titles of Magistra or High Priestess that have been bandied about and fought over.\"\n\nSince then, she does not accept correspondence addressed to \"Zeena LaVey,\" \"Zeena LaVey-Schreck\", or any variant using the name LaVey.\n\nZeena began to pursue ancient religious practices relating to the Egyptian god Seth and Sethianism. She has stated, \"While I was residing in Vienna, I visited a museum where a Sethian altar lives. It was there that I had a very profound experience that enabled me to clearly see the course for my future.\"[40] At the time, she was also practicing traditional tantra and yoga. Her experiences within those two systems, as well as her central role and life's experience in other occult and esoteric milieux, would contribute considerably to the content of her book \"Demons of the Flesh\", co-authored with Nikolas Schreck.\n\nIn 1997, Zeena and co-guest Nikolas Schreck once again debated Christian Minister Bob Larson. This time she did not represent Satanism but rather Sethianism, though the interview was titled \"Showdown With Satanism\". At the time she was III° Priestess of Set.\n\nIn 2002 Zeena became High Priestess of the Temple of Set.\n\nThe Sethian Liberation Movement was founded on November 8, 2002, after Zeena Schreck resigned from the Temple of Set with four Masters of the Temple of Set (one Master, Magister Michael Kelly, was also a member of the corporate Board of Directors for the California non-profit organization The Temple of Set). Details of the departure were explained in a letter dated November 8, 2002 from the newly departed Temple of Set Council of Nine member to an Adept IIº member regarding the events leading to Zeena's resignation and the founding of the Storm, later renamed the Sethian Liberation Movement.\n\nShortly after Zeena Schreck resigned from the Temple of Set, a Disinfo listing for the Temple of Set from December 17, 2002 under the heading: 2002 Schism: The Storm Awakens reported, \"High Priest Don Webb stepped down, and, on 9 September 2002, was succeeded by High Priestess Zeena Schreck. Six weeks after the Helsinki Conclave (September 2002), Zeena, Magister Aaron Besson, Magister Nikolas Schreck and Magister Michael Kelly all resigned on 8 November 2002. Four Priests Alfred Rodriguez, Kevin Rockhill, Jared Davison and Richard Gavin also resigned. Temple of Set sources have claimed that eighteen Initiates have resigned while others have estimated the number at closer to sixty (including several Orders, Elements, and members of the Adept and Setian degrees).\"\n\nIn one of the Sethian Liberation Movement's earliest public Frequently Answered Questions documents released, Disinfo referenced it in their post covering the Temple of Seth/Storm schism: \" ...  [the] document defines the new and as-yet unnamed group as  ... a loose confederation of Setian Teachers and Students, an alliance of Orders.\" The group has eschewed the Temple's administrative and non-profit structure, as well as its degree system and titles. \"We work together through mutual respect and interest, not through any organizational limitations or restrictions\", the FAQ document states. Finally, its founders have sought to avoid the \"magical society\" structure of post-Theosophy groups: the confederation is \"an ongoing Magical Working in which we may participate, a living, dynamic and evolving thing.\"\n\nZeena's homepage states, \"Drawing on her own triumph over these and other dysfunctional family experiences, Zeena, a professional bereavement counsellor, founded The Sethian Liberation Movement's public outreach program PHOENIX to help others in similar situations.\" It explains that \"Since 2004 Phoenix provides spiritual healing for victims of exploitative pseudo-religious organizations, former gang members, whistle-blowing ex-employees of corrupt corporations and governmental agencies, relatives of the violently mentally ill, and survivors of all forms of institutional abuse, including secretly abused children and spouses of prominent personalities.\"\n\nZeena's website states: \"Preferring to allow her work to speak for itself and indifferent to public opinion, Zeena has granted only a very few interviews since 1993.\"\n\nIn 2004 Zeena and Nikolas Schreck spoke about their book \"Demons of the Flesh\" on \"The Devil's Advocate\" radio show. In that interview, Zeena also spoke about the Storm (before it had been renamed Sethian Liberation Movement) and its incorporation of the tantric left way practices she writes of in her book.\n\nIn December 2011 Zeena Schreck spoke about the Sethian Liberation Movement on \"Nightwatch Radio\" while also promoting two of her short fiction stories, \"A Short History of Buddhism in Berlin\" and \"Lost and Found: A Fairy Tale of Sethian Awakening\", in the literary journal \"Beatdom\" released December 2011. According to the \"Nightwatch\" interview Zeena Schreck states that the Sethian Liberation Movement (SLM) is not membership based nor a 'group' seeking to fill dues quotas, or something to join but rather a practice.\n\nIn December 2012, Zeena Schreck was invited back to Nightwatch Radio. This time, promoting the 2012 Radio Werewolf release of \"The Vinyl Solution - Analog Artifacts: Ritual Instrumentals and Undercover Versions\" CD, the first authorized Radio Werewolf release in 20 years, and \"Beatdom\"'s Crime issue #12 featuring a vintage portrait of Zeena on the cover and her theatre monologue, \"Night Shift, Richmond Station\".\n\nOn December 10, 2012, Zeena curated a stream of videos for Network Awesome's Live Music Show, with audio and visual clips arranged in an autobiographical manner.\n\nOn March 18, 2013 Network Awesome's daily program opened with an exclusive original production featuring Zeena Schreck's first one-on-one televised interview in 22 years, conducted by artist Jen Ray. Network Awesome spotlighted Zeena with a full day of programming, referencing various facets of her life. Other features in the day's program included archival interviews of Zeena and documentaries relating to her current spiritual pursuits and practices.\n\nIn 2016, a mock conspiracy theory in a vein similar to that of the Ted Cruz–Zodiac meme arose online, conflating Zeena with popular musical artist Taylor Swift.\n\nOn August 8, 1988, a large gathering converged on the Strand Theater in San Francisco for the film debut of a 'mockumentary' about Charles Manson. The event, planned and carried out by Nikolas Schreck, was the largest single gathering of this kind in history. Zeena spoke at the beginning of the rally and a film of her baptism was played. In a 2011 interview with Zeena for French music magazine \"Obsküre\", she stated that 8-8-88 \"would be the only performance that Nikolas, Evil Wilhelm [the original Radio Werewolf percussionist], and I ever performed live together. That marked the transition point spanning three phases of Radio Werewolf: 1) the Nikolas Schreck/Evil Wilhelm collaboration, 2) the solo Nikolas Schreck phase, and 3) the Nikolas Schreck/Zeena collaboration.\" Also featured were NON, Amok Press and Kris Force, a musician who at the time owned the Strand Theater. Geraldo Rivera's \"Devil Worship: Exposing Satan's Underground\" film crew filmed the event, as well as interviews with all involved, to use for the network special.\n\nFrom 1988–1993, Zeena was co-director of the experimental musical project Radio Werewolf. She served as composer, vocalist, musician and graphic designer on the Radio Werewolf recordings \"Songs for the End of the World\", \"The Lightning and the Sun\", \"Bring Me The Head of Geraldo Rivera\", \"These Boots Were Made for Walking\", and \"Love Conquers All.\" Her performances were exclusively European-based at that time.\n\nIn 2012, Radio Werewolf released \"The Vinyl Solution - Analog Artifacts: Ritual Instrumentals and Undercover Versions\" Compact Disc, the first authorized Radio Werewolf release in 20 years.\n\nIn 2016, Classic Rock magazine ranked Radio Werewolf #4 on their 'The 25 weirdest bands of all time' list, stating: \"Formed during the height of 'Satanic Panic' hysteria in mid-80's America, Radio Werewolf was once considered 'the most dangerous band in the world', largely due to the notoriety of their vocalist, Zeena Schreck[ ... ]\". In 2016, The Top Tens Most Satanic Bands listed Radio Werewolf, \"Yes!, Since when does Heavy Metal have to be the only satanic music. Why not dark organ Gothic/Deathrock.\"\n\nOn November 8, 2013, the visual art performance biennial \"Performa\" presented Zeena accompanied by New York musician Hisham Bharoocha (first percussion) and Danish musician Anders Hermund (second percussion), for a vocal based work that tapped into the ritual use of sacred syllables from Vajrayana, Shaktism and Sethian-Typhonian left-way tantric practices, \"originating from emptiness, gradually transforming into a sound and voice collage on a stage set design by Frank Haines.\" This was Zeena's first solo performance in her native country since her expatriation to Europe in 1990.\n\nDavid Sanderson described the event, \"Jingling bells and padded footsteps echoed in the darkness. The curtains silently parted, dramatically revealing an electrified, vermilion environment. Dead center, with hands held in the Mudra position, stood the seemingly twenty-foot tall goddess Zeena. With a painted gong behind her, Bharoocha and Hermund adorned her sides. Bharoocha lit incense that swept through the audience as Zeena's commanding gaze pierced us all (everyone I talked to after the show swore she was staring directly at them).\"\n\nOn May 23, 2015, after a 24-year retreat from musical performances, Zeena made her official return to music in Europe, now as a solo artist, at the Wave-Gotik-Treffen festival in Leipzig, Germany. The concert, held amid \"the sacred, magically charged ancient artifacts housed in Leipzig's Egyptian Museum (at the Leipzig University),\" was a unique ritual soundscape which Zeena composed especially for the theme of that environment. She was accompanied by Cory Vielma and John Murphy. This was John Murphy's second to last performance. Having suffered a long illness, John Murphy died less than five months after this concert. In accordance to Murphy's wishes, Zeena conducted the traditional Tibetan Buddhist ceremony for the passing of consciousness as he died. In 2016, a tribute to John Murphy as a 3CD compilation set entitled \"All My Sins Remembered - The Sonic Worlds of John Murphy\" was released by The Epicurean record label. On it, a live track from Zeena's WGT concert, featuring Murphy's electronic-percussion is included. The CD booklet also features cover portrait of Murphy by Zeena.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17856559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17856559", "title": "Željko Loparić", "text": "Željko Loparić\n\nŽeljko Loparić (born 3 December 1939) is a Croatian-born Brazilian philosopher, historian of philosophy and university teacher. Born in Cvetković, Croatia, he is a naturalized Brazilian, and professor at the University of Campinas.\n\n\n"}
