{"id": "29631617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29631617", "title": "Antimatter comet", "text": "Antimatter comet\n\nAntimatter comets (and antimatter meteoroids) are hypothetical comets (meteoroids) composed solely of antimatter instead of ordinary matter. Although never actually observed, and unlikely to exist anywhere within the Milky Way, they have been hypothesized to exist, and their existence, on the presumption that hypothesis is correct, has been put forward as one possible explanation for various observed natural phenomena over the years.\n\nThe hypothesis of comets made of antimatter can be traced back to the 1940s, when physicist Vladimir Rojansky proposed, in his paper \"The Hypothesis of the Existence of Contraterrene Matter\" the possibility that some comets and meteoroids could be made from \"contraterrene\" matter (i.e. antimatter). Such objects, Rojanski stated, would (if they existed at all) have their origins outside the Solar System. He hypothesized that if there were an antimatter object in orbit in the Solar System, it would exhibit the behavior of comets observed in the 1940s: As its atoms annihilated with \"terrene\" matter from other bodies and solar wind, it would generate volatile compounds and undergo a change of composition to elements with lower atomic masses. From this basis he propounded the hypothesis that some objects that had been identified as comets may, in fact, be antimatter objects, suggesting, based upon calculations using the Stefan-Boltzmann law, that it would be possible to determine the existence of such objects within the Solar System by observing their temperatures. An antimatter body subjected to normal levels of meteoric bombardment (per 1940s figures), and absorbing half of the energy created by the annihilation of normal matter and antimatter, would have a temperature of for bombardment figures calculated by Wylie or for calculations by Nininger. In the 1970s, when comet Kohoutek was observed, Rojanski again suggested hypothesis of antimatter comets in a letter in \"Physical Review Letters\", and suggested that gamma-ray observations be made of the comet to test this hypothesis.\n\nRojansky's original 1940 hypothesis was that perhaps the only bodies within the Solar System that could be antimatter were comets and meteoroids, all others being almost certainly normal matter. Experimental evidence gathered since then has not only borne out this restriction but has made the existence of actual antimatter comets and meteoroids themselves seem ever more unlikely. Gary Steigman, assistant professor of Astronomy at Yale University, observed in 1976 that space probes had proven — by the fact that they were not annihilated upon impact — that bodies such as Mars, Venus, and the Moon were not antimatter. He also noted that had any of the planets or similar bodies been antimatter, their interaction with the terrene solar wind and the sheer strength of the gamma ray emissions that would have resulted would have made them readily noticeable long since. He noted that not even antimatter cosmic rays had been found, with all of the nuclei found in studies having been uniformly terrene, the experimental data in several studies made from 1961 onwards by various people excluding the presence of a fractional antimatter composition of cosmic rays any larger than 10 of the total. Further, the uniformly terrene nature of the cosmic ray flux indicates that nowhere in the Milky Way are there any sources of heavier antimatter elements (such as carbon), since (although it is not proven) it is a likely assumption that they represent the overall composition of the entire galaxy. They are representative of the galaxy as a whole — goes the logic — and since they \"do\" contain terrene carbon and other atoms, but have not been observed to contain \"any\" antimatter atoms, therefore there is no reasonable source for extrasolar antimatter comets, meteoroids, or any other large scale heavy element objects to originate from, within this galaxy.\n\nMartin Beech from the University of Western Ontario (London, Ontario, Canada) referred to the various hypotheses and experimental results that support non-existence of antimatter in the Universe. He argued that any antimatter comets and meteors that exist must be (at least) extrasolar in origin because the nebular hypothesis for the formation of the Solar System precludes their being solar. Any antimatter in a pre-formation nebula or planetary accretion disc has a comparatively short lifetime, astronomically speaking, before annihilation with the terrene matter that it is mixed with. This lifetime is measured in the hundreds of years, and so any solar antimatter present at the time that the system was formed will have long since been annihilated. Any antimatter comets and meteors must therefore come from another solar system. Furthermore, not only must antimatter meteors be extrasolar in origin, they must have been recently (i.e. within the past 10 ~ 10 years) captured by the Solar System. Most meteoroids are broken down to sizes of 10 g within that timeframe, because of meteoroid-upon-meteoroid collisions. Thus any antimatter meteor must be either extrasolar in origin itself, or broken off from an antimatter comet that is extrasolar in origin. The former are unlikely to exist from observational evidence. Any extrasolar meteoroid would have a hyperbolic orbit, but less than 1% of the observed meteoroids have such, and the process of perturbation of ordinary (terrene) solar objects, by planetary encounters, into hyperbolic trajectories accounts for all of those. Beech concluded that a continued null result, however, does not constitute a proof ('Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence', M. Rees) and a single positive detection negates the arguments presented.\n\nIn 1947, Mohammad Abdur Rahman Khan, professor at Osmania University and research associate at the Institute of Meteoretics in the University of New Mexico, put forward the hypothesis that antimatter comets or meteoroids were responsible for tektites . However, this explanation, out of the many proposed explanations for tektites, is considered to be one of the more improbable.\n\nBy the 1950s, speculating about antimatter comets and meteoroids was a commonplace exercise for astrophysicists. One such, Philip J. Wyatt of Florida State University, suggested that the Tunguska event may have been a meteor made of antimatter . Willard Libby and Clyde Cowan took Wyatt's idea further , having studied worldwide levels of carbon-14 in tree rings and noticing unusually high levels for the year 1909. However, even in 1958 the theoretical flaws in the hypothesis were observed, aside from the evidence that was coming in at the same time from the first gamma ray measurement satellites. For one, the hypothesis did not explain how an antimatter meteor could have managed to survive that low into the Earth's atmosphere, without being annihilated as soon as it encountered terrene matter at the upper levels.\n\nIn 1971, fragments of antimatter comets or meteoroids were hypothesized, by David E. T. F. Ashby of Culham Laboratory and Colin Whitehead of the U.K. Atomic Energy Research Establishment, as a possible cause for ball lightning . They monitored the sky with gamma-ray detection apparatus, and reported unusually high numbers at 511 keV (kilo-electron volts) which is the characteristic gamma ray frequency of a collision between an electron and a positron. There were natural explanations for such readings. In particular positrons can be produced indirectly by the action of a thunderstorm, as it creates the unstable isotopes nitrogen-13 and oxygen-15. However, Ashby and Whitehead noted that there were no thunderstorms present at the times that the gamma-ray readings were observed. They instead presented the hypothesis of antimatter meteors as an interesting one that did explain all of what their observations had recorded, and suggested that it merited further investigation.\n\nAshby and Whitehead's hypothesis, which Neil Charman (lecturer at the \nUniversity of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology) in his 1972 \nroundup of the several hypothetical explanations of ball lightning characterized \nas one of the more bizarre explanations, was based upon the (unproven) \nsupposition that there was a potential barrier between antimatter and normal\nmatter. This barrier allowed micrometeoroid and meteoroid fragments that entered \nthe Earth's atmosphere from space to survive for comparatively lengthy periods, \nbecause the terrene atmospheric molecules would not always possess enough energy \nto overcome the barrier and annihilate the antimatter fragments. Antimatter \natoms in micrometeors would instead become negatively charged antimatter \nions, as a result of positrons being stripped from them by the photoelectric \neffect (and also as a result of secondary effects from annihilation of matter \naround them).\n\nAntimatter comets thought to exist in the Oort cloud were in the 1990s hypothesized as one possible explanation for gamma ray bursts. These bursts can be explained by the annihilation of matter and antimatter microcomets. The explosion would create powerful gamma ray bursts and accelerate matter to near light speeds. These antimatter microcomets are thought to reside at distances of more than 1000 AU. Calculations have shown that comets of around 1 km in radius would shrink by 1 m if they passed the Sun with a perihelion of 1 AU. Microcomets, due to the stresses of solar heating, shatter and burn up much more quickly because the forces are more concentrated within their small masses. Antimatter microcomets would burn up even more rapidly because the annihilation of solar wind with the surface of the microcomet would produce additional heat. As more gamma-ray bursts were detected in subsequent years, this theory failed to explain the observed distribution of gamma-ray bursts about host galaxies and detections of X-ray lines associated with gamma-ray bursts. The discovery of a supernova associated with a gamma-ray burst in 2002 provided compelling evidence that massive stars are the origin of gamma-ray bursts. Since 2002, more supernovae have been observed to be associated with gamma-ray bursts, and massive stars as the origin of gamma-ray bursts has been firmly established.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37607273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37607273", "title": "Antoon Verschoot", "text": "Antoon Verschoot\n\nAntoon Verschoot, , Order of the Crown (Belgium) (Ypres, 19 June 1925 - 1 February 2017) was a Belgian firefighter and bugler who played the last post at the Menin Gate for many years.\n\nOn 12 December 2015, Antoon Verschoot played his last \"Last Post\" at the Menin Gate, after 65 years with the Ypres/Ieper fire brigade, which he joined in 1950. He became a bugler for the Last Post Association in 1954 making him the oldest and longest serving bugler with the Association. It is estimated that Verschoot played at The Gate over 15,000 times.\n\n"}
{"id": "2885000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885000", "title": "Battery charger", "text": "Battery charger\n\nA battery charger, or recharger, is a device used to put energy into a secondary cell or rechargeable battery by forcing an electric current through it.\n\nThe charging protocol (how much voltage or current for how long, and what to do when charging is complete, for instance) depends on the size and type of the battery being charged. Some battery types have high tolerance for overcharging (i.e., continued charging after the battery has been fully charged) and can be recharged by connection to a constant voltage source or a constant current source, depending on battery type. Simple chargers of this type must be manually disconnected at the end of the charge cycle, and some battery types absolutely require, or may use a timer, to cut off charging current at some fixed time, approximately when charging is complete. Other battery types cannot withstand over-charging, being damaged (reduced capacity, reduced lifetime), over heating or even exploding. \nThe charger may have temperature or voltage sensing circuits and a microprocessor controller to safely adjust the charging current and voltage, determine the state of charge, and cut off at the end of charge.\n\nA trickle charger provides a relatively small amount of current, only enough to counteract self-discharge of a battery that is idle for a long time. Some battery types cannot tolerate trickle charging of any kind; attempts to do so may result in damage. Lithium ion battery cells use a chemistry system which does not permit indefinite trickle charging. \n\nSlow battery chargers may take several hours to complete a charge. High-rate chargers may restore most capacity much faster, but high rate chargers can be more than some battery types can tolerate. Such batteries require active monitoring of the battery to protect it from overcharging. Electric vehicles ideally need high-rate chargers. For public access, installation of such chargers and the distribution support for them is an issue in the proposed adoption of electric cars.\n\nCharge and discharge rates are often given as \"C\" or \"C-rate\", which is a measure of the rate at which a battery is charged or discharged relative to its capacity. The C-rate is defined as the charge or discharge current divided by the battery's capacity to store an electrical charge. While rarely stated explicitly, the unit of the C-rate is h, equivalent to stating the battery's capacity to store an electrical charge in unit hour times current in the same unit as the charge or discharge current. The C-rate is never negative, so whether it describes a charging or discharging process depends on the context.\n\nFor example, for a battery with a capacity of 500 mAh, a discharge rate of 5000 mA (i.e., 5 A) corresponds to a C-rate of 10 (per hour), meaning that such a current can discharge 10 such batteries in one hour. Likewise, for the same battery a charge current of 250 mA corresponds to a C-rate of 1/2 (per hour), meaning that this current will increase the state of charge of this battery by 50% in one hour.\n\nSince the unit of the C-rate is typically implied, some care is required when using it to avoid confusing it with the battery's capacity to store a charge, which in the SI has unit coulomb with unit symbol \"C\".\n\nIf both the (dis)charge current and the battery capacity in the C-rate ratio is multiplied by the battery voltage, the C-rate becomes a ratio of the (dis)charge power to the battery's energy capacity. For example, when the 100 kWh battery in a Tesla Model S P100D is undergoing supercharging at 120 kW the C-rate is 1.2 (per hour) and when that battery delivers its maximum power of 451 kW, its C-rate is 4.51 (per hour).\n\nAll charging and discharging of batteries generates internal heat, and the amount of heat generated is roughly proportional to the current involved (a battery's current state of charge, condition / history, etc are also factors). As some batteries reach their full charge, cooling may also be observed. Battery cells which have been built to allow higher C-rates than usual must make provision for increased heating. But high C-ratings are attractive to end users because such batteries can be charged more quickly, and produce higher current output in use. High C-rates typically require the charger to carefully monitor battery parameters such as terminal voltage and temperature to prevent overcharging and so damage to the cells. Such high charging rates are possible only with some battery types. Others will be damaged or possibly overheat or catch fire. Some batteries may even explode. For example, an automobile SLI (starting, lighting, ignition) lead-acid battery carries several risks of explosion.\n\nA simple charger works by supplying a constant DC or pulsed DC power source to a battery being charged. A simple charger typically does not alter its output based on charging time or the charge on the battery. This simplicity means that a simple charger is inexpensive, but there are tradeoffs. Typically, a carefully designed simple charger takes longer to charge a battery because it is set to use a lower (i.e., safer) charging rate. Even so, many batteries left on a simple charger for too long will be weakened or destroyed due to over-charging. These chargers also vary in that they can supply either a constant voltage or a constant current, to the battery.\n\nSimple AC-powered battery chargers usually have much higher ripple current and ripple voltage than other kinds of battery chargers because they are inexpensively designed and built. Generally, when the ripple current is within a battery's manufacturer recommended level, the ripple voltage will also be well within the recommended level. The maximum ripple current for a typical 12V 100Ah VRLA battery is 5 amps. As long as the ripple current is not excessive (more than 3 to 4 times the battery manufacturer recommended level), the expected life of a ripple-charged VRLA battery will be within 3% of the life of a constant DC-charged battery.\n\nFast chargers make use of control circuitry to rapidly charge the batteries without damaging any of the cells in the battery. The control circuitry can be built into the battery (generally for each cell) or in the external charging unit, or split between both. Most such chargers have a cooling fan to help keep the temperature of the cells at safe levels. Most fast chargers are also capable of acting as standard overnight chargers if used with standard NiMH cells that do not have the special control circuitry.\n\nTo accelerate the charging time and provide continuous charging, an intelligent charger attempts to detect the state of charge and condition of the battery and applies a 3 stage charging scheme. The following description assumes a sealed lead acid traction battery at 25°C. The first stage is referred to as \"bulk absorption\"; the charging current will be held high and constant and is limited by the capacity of the charger. When the voltage on the battery reaches its outgassing voltage (2.22 volts per cell) the charger switches to the second stage and the voltage is held constant (2.40 volts per cell). The delivered current will decline at the maintained voltage, and when the current reaches less than 0.005C the charger enters its third stage and the charger output will be held constant at 2.25 volts per cell. In the third stage, the charging current is very small 0.005C and at this voltage the battery can be maintained at full charge and compensate for self-discharge.\n\nInductive battery chargers use electromagnetic induction to charge batteries. A charging station sends electromagnetic energy through inductive coupling to an electrical device, which stores the energy in the batteries. This is achieved without the need for metal contacts between the charger and the battery. Inductive battery chargers are commonly used in electric toothbrushes and other devices used in bathrooms. Because there are no open electrical contacts, there is no risk of electrocution. Nowadays it is being used to charge wireless phones.\n\nA \"smart charger\" should not be confused with a \"smart battery\". A smart battery is generally defined as one containing some sort of electronic device or \"chip\" that can communicate with a smart charger about battery characteristics and condition. A smart battery generally requires a smart charger it can communicate with (see Smart Battery Data). A smart charger is defined as a charger that can respond to the condition of a battery, and modify its charging actions accordingly.\n\nSome smart chargers are designed to charge:\n\nThe output current of a smart charger depends upon the battery's state. An intelligent charger may monitor the battery's voltage, temperature or time under charge to determine the optimum charge current and to terminate charging.\n\nFor Ni-Cd and NiMH batteries, the voltage across the battery increases slowly during the charging process, until the battery is fully charged. After that, the voltage \"decreases\", which indicates to an intelligent charger that the battery is fully charged. Such chargers are often labeled as a ΔV, \"delta-V,\" or sometimes \"delta peak\", charger, indicating that they monitor the voltage change.\n\nThe problem is, the magnitude of \"delta-V\" can become very small or even non-existent if (very) high capacity rechargeable batteries are recharged. This can cause even an intelligent battery charger to not sense that the batteries are actually already fully charged, and to continue charging. Overcharging of the batteries will result in some cases. However, many so called intelligent chargers employ a combination of cut off systems, which are intended to prevent overcharging in the vast majority of cases.\n\nA typical intelligent charger fast-charges a battery up to about 85% of its maximum capacity in less than an hour, then switches to trickle charging, which takes several hours to top off the battery to its full capacity.\n\nSeveral companies have begun making devices that charge batteries based on human motions. One example, made by Tremont Electric, consists of a magnet held between two springs that can charge a battery as the device is moved up and down, such as when walking. Such products have not yet achieved significant commercial success.\n\nA pedal powered charger for mobile phones, fitted into desks has been created by a Belgian company WeWatt, for installation in public spaces, such as at airports, railway stations and universities have been installed in a number of countries on several continents.\n\nSome chargers use \"pulse technology\" in which a series of voltage or current pulses is fed to the battery. The DC pulses have a strictly controlled rise time, pulse width, pulse repetition rate (frequency) and amplitude. This technology is said to work with any size, voltage, capacity or chemistry of batteries, including automotive and valve-regulated batteries.\n\nWith pulse charging, high instantaneous voltages can be applied without overheating the battery. In a Lead–acid battery, this breaks down lead-sulfate crystals, thus greatly extending the battery service life.\n\nSeveral kinds of pulse charging are patented. Others are open source hardware.\n\nSome chargers use pulses to check the current battery state when the charger is first connected, then use constant current charging during fast charging, then use pulse charging as a kind of trickle charging to maintain the charge.\n\nSome chargers use \"negative pulse charging\", also called \"reflex charging\" or \"burp charging\".\nSuch chargers use both positive and brief negative current pulses. There is no significant evidence, however, that negative pulse charging is more effective than ordinary pulse charging.\n\nSolar chargers convert light energy into low voltage DC current. They are generally portable, but can also be fixed mount. Fixed mount solar chargers are also known as solar panels. Solar panels are often connected to the electrical grid via control and interface circuits, whereas portable solar chargers are used off-the-grid (i.e. cars, boats, or RVs).\n\nAlthough portable solar chargers obtain energy from the sun only, they still can (depending on the technology) be used in low light (i.e. cloudy) applications. Portable solar chargers are often used for trickle charging, although some solar chargers (depending on the wattage), can completely recharge batteries. Other devices may exist, which combine this with other sources of energy for added recharging efficacy.\n\nThe output of a timer charger is terminated after a pre-determined time. Timer chargers were the most common type for high-capacity Ni-Cd cells in the late 1990s for example (low-capacity consumer Ni-Cd cells were typically charged with a simple charger).\n\nOften a timer charger and set of batteries could be bought as a bundle and the charger time was set to suit those batteries. If batteries of lower capacity were charged then they would be overcharged, and if batteries of higher capacity were charged they would be only partly charged. With the trend for battery technology to increase capacity year on year, an old timer charger would only partly charge the newer batteries.\n\nTimer based chargers also had the drawback that charging batteries that were not fully discharged, even if those batteries were of the correct capacity for the particular timed charger, would result in over-charging.\n\nA trickle charger is typically a low-current (usually between 5–1,500 mA) battery charger or one which has a trickle charging operating mode. A trickle charger is generally used to charge small capacity batteries (2–30 Ah). These types of battery chargers are also used to maintain larger capacity batteries (> 30 Ah) that are typically found on cars, boats, RVs and other related vehicles. In larger applications, the current of the battery charger is sufficient only to provide a maintenance or trickle current (trickle is commonly the last charging stage of most battery chargers). Depending on the technology of the trickle charger, it can be left connected to the battery indefinitely. Some battery chargers that can be left connected to the battery without causing the battery damage are also referred to as smart or intelligent chargers. Some battery types are not suitable for trickle charging. For instance, most Li-ion batteries cannot be safely trickle charged, and the damage caused can be enough to cause a fire or even an explosion.\n\nThe most sophisticated types are used in critical applications (e.g. military or aviation batteries). These heavy-duty automatic “intelligent charging” systems can be programmed with complex charging cycles specified by the battery maker. The best are universal (i.e. can charge all battery types), and include automatic capacity testing and analyzing functions too.\n\nSince the Universal Serial Bus specification provides for a five-volt power supply (with limited maximum power), it is possible to use a USB cable to connect a device to a power supply. Products based on this approach include chargers for cellular phones, portable digital audio players, and tablet computers. They may be fully compliant USB peripheral devices adhering to USB power discipline, or uncontrolled in the manner of USB decorations.\n\nA power bank is a portable device that can supply power from its built-in battery through a USB port. Power banks are popular for charging USB charged devices. They can also be used as a power supply for various USB powered devices such as lights and small fans. They usually recharge with a USB power supply. The power bank includes a control circuit that both regulates charging of the battery and converts the battery voltage to 5.0 volts for the USB port. Some chargers for cells like 18650s and 26650 can also serve as a power bank. Although it is generally more cumbersome to carry such a charger with cells rather than a conventional power bank, this type of setup has the advantage of being able to charge cells for other uses. It also has the advantage that, when the cells are\ndead, they can be swapped for fresh cells for immediate use rather than having to be recharged first.\n\nSpecifications:\n\nSome power banks have a built-in wireless charging pad. Power banks are available in different capacity ratings. \n\nAdvantages of Li-Poly Batteries:\n\nAlthough a standard exists for USB chargers, there are two areas of common incompatibility.\n\nSince a battery charger is intended to be connected to a battery, it may not have voltage regulation or filtering of the DC voltage output; it is cheaper to make them that way. Battery chargers equipped with both voltage regulation and filtering are sometimes termed battery eliminators.\n\nThere are two main types of chargers used for vehicles:\n\nChargers for car batteries come in varying ratings. Chargers that are rated up to two amperes may be used to maintain charge on parked vehicle batteries or for small batteries on garden tractors or similar equipment. A motorist may keep a charger rated a few amperes to ten or fifteen amperes for maintenance of automobile batteries or to recharge a vehicle battery that has accidentally discharged. Service stations and commercial garages will have a large charger to fully charge a battery in an hour or two; often these chargers can briefly source the hundreds of amperes required to crank an internal combustion engine starter.\n\nElectric vehicle battery chargers (ECS) come in a variety of brands and characteristics. These chargers vary from 1 kW to 7.5 kW maximum charge rate. Some use algorithm charge curves, others use constant voltage, constant current. Some are programmable by the end user through a CAN port, some have dials for maximum voltage and amperage, some are preset to specified battery pack voltage, amp-hour and chemistry. Prices range from $400 to $4500.\n\nA 10 amp-hour battery could take 15 hours to reach a fully charged state from a fully discharged condition with a 1 amp charger as it would require roughly 1.5 times the battery's capacity.\n\nPublic EV charging stations provide 6 kW (host power of 208 to 240 VAC off a 40 amp circuit). 6 kW will recharge an EV roughly 6 times faster than 1 kW overnight charging.\n\nRapid charging results in even faster recharge times and is limited only by available AC power, battery type, and the type of charging system.\n\nOnboard EV chargers (change AC power to DC power to recharge the EV's pack) can be:\n\nPower Factor Correction (PFC) chargers can more closely approach the maximum current the plug can deliver, shortening charging time.\n\nProject Better Place was deploying a network of charging stations and subsidizing vehicle battery costs through leases and credits until filing for bankruptcy in May 2013.\nResearchers at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) have developed an electric transport system (called Online Electric Vehicle, OLEV) where the vehicles get their power needs from cables underneath the surface of the road via inductive charging, (where a power source is placed underneath the road surface and power is wirelessly picked up on the vehicle itself.\n\nMost mobile phone chargers are not really chargers, only power adapters that provide a power source for the charging circuitry which is almost always contained within the mobile phone. Older ones are notoriously diverse, having a wide variety of DC connector-styles and voltages, most of which are not compatible with other manufacturers' phones or even different models of phones from a single manufacturer.\n\nUsers of publicly accessible charging kiosks must be able to cross-reference connectors with device brands/models and individual charge parameters and thus ensure delivery of the correct charge for their mobile device. A database-driven system is one solution, and is being incorporated into some designs of charging kiosks.\n\nThere are also human-powered chargers sold on the market, which typically consists of a dynamo powered by a hand crank and extension cords. A French startup offers a kind of dynamo charger inspired by the ratchet that can be used with only one hand. There are also solar chargers, including one that is a fully mobile personal charger and panel, which you can easily transport.\n\nChina, the European Commission and other countries are making a national standard on mobile phone chargers using the USB standard. In June 2009, 10 of the world's largest mobile phone manufacturers signed a Memorandum of Understanding to develop specifications for and support a microUSB-equipped common External Power Supply (EPS) for all data-enabled mobile phones sold in the EU. On October 22, 2009, the International Telecommunication Union announced a standard for a universal charger for mobile handsets (Micro-USB).\n\nTelecommunications, electric power, and computer uninterruptible power supply facilities may have very large standby battery banks (installed in battery rooms) to maintain critical loads for several hours during interruptions of primary grid power. Such chargers are permanently installed and equipped with temperature compensation, supervisory alarms for various system faults, and often redundant independent power supplies and redundant rectifier systems. Chargers for stationary battery plants may have adequate voltage regulation and filtration and sufficient current capacity to allow the battery to be disconnected for maintenance, while the charger supplies the DC system load. Capacity of the charger is specified to maintain the system load and recharge a completely discharged battery within, say, 8 hours or other interval.\n\nA battery charger can work as a DC power adapter for experimentation. It may, however, require an external capacitor to be connected across its output terminals in order to \"smooth\" the voltage sufficiently, which may be thought of as a DC voltage plus a \"ripple\" voltage added to it. There may be an internal resistance connected to limit the short circuit current, and the value of that internal resistance may have to be taken into consideration in experiments.\n\nWhich electrical practices, and so which charger, are best suited for use depending entirely on the type of battery. NiCd cells must be fully discharged occasionally, or else the battery loses capacity over time due to a phenomenon known as \"memory effect.\" Once a month (perhaps once every 30 charges) is sometimes recommended. This extends the life of the battery since memory effect is prevented while avoiding full charge cycles which are known to be hard on all types of dry-cell batteries, eventually resulting in a permanent decrease in battery capacity.\n\nMost modern cell phones, laptops, and most electric vehicles use Lithium-ion batteries. These batteries last longest if the battery is frequently charged; fully discharging the cells will degrade their capacity relatively quickly, but most such batteries are used in equipment which can sense the approach of fill discharge and discontinue equipment use. When stored after charging, lithium battery cells degrade more while fully charged than if they are only 40-50% charged. As with all battery types, degradation also occurs faster at higher temperatures. Degradation in lithium-ion batteries is caused by an increased internal battery resistance often due to cell oxidation. This decreases the efficiency of the battery, resulting in less net current available to be drawn from the battery. However, if Li-ION cells are discharged below a certain voltage a chemical reaction occurs that make them dangerous if recharged, which is why many such batteries in consumer goods now have an \"electronic fuse\" that permanently disables them if the voltage falls below a set level. The electronic fuse circuitry draws a small amount of current from the battery, which means that if a laptop battery is left for a long time without charging it, and with a very low initial state of charge, the battery may be permanently destroyed.\n\nMotor vehicles, such as boats, RVs, ATVs, motorcycles, cars, trucks, etc have used lead–acid batteries. These batteries employ a sulfuric acid electrolyte and can generally be charged and discharged without exhibiting memory effect, though sulfation (a chemical reaction in the battery which deposits a layer of sulfates on the lead) will occur over time. Typically sulfated batteries are simply replaced with new batteries, and the old ones recycled. Lead–acid batteries will experience substantially longer life when a maintenance charger is used to \"float charge\" the battery. This prevents the battery from ever being below 100% charge, preventing sulfate from forming. Proper temperature compensated float voltage should be used to achieve the best results.\n\n"}
{"id": "6241485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6241485", "title": "Black Hill Conservation Park", "text": "Black Hill Conservation Park\n\nBlack Hill Conservation Park is a protected area in the Australian state of South Australia located approximately northeast of the state capital of Adelaide. The conservation park is in a rugged bush environment, with a prominent peak, bounded by steep ridges on the southern slopes. \nBlack Hill Conservation Park covers around within the Mount Lofty Ranges, which run north-south to the east of Adelaide's coastal plain. \n\nIt is located in the suburbs of Athelstone and Montacute and is bounded to the north by George Road and to the south by Montacute Road.\n\nThe conservation park lies mostly on the northern side of Fifth Creek.\n\nThe conservation park adjoins Morialta Conservation Park, home to many activities, including bushwalking, bird watching and rock climbing.\n\nThe main access to the conservation park is via the vehicle entrance off Maryvale Road, and there is walking access at various points along Marble Hill Road.\n\nMorialta shares Adelaide's Mediterranean climate, with average temperatures of in winter, to during summer. The conservation park receives average annual rainfall of mostly between May and September. During the summer months (December to February) temperatures can rise above .\n\nThe conservation park is classified as an IUCN Category III protected area.\n\nThe land used by the Morialta Conservation Park was traditionally occupied by the Kaurna people. Most of the Kaurna elders died before much of their culture could be recorded, and so little is known of the pre-colonial history of the area. It is known that they used fire both as an aid to hunting, and to regenerate the vegetation.\n\nPrivate landholdings were given over to a wildflower garden on the north edge of the conservation park which has now officially been handed over to the conservation park. The Friends of the Black Hill and Morialta Conservation Parks have a building on site where meetings are held and activities are based/conducted for help with the wildflower garden and the two conservation parks.\nThe conservation park caters for a variety of activities, including bushwalking, picnics and bird watching. There are many walking paths within the conservation park, including the Yurrebilla and Heysen Trails.\n\nBeing only from the centre of Adelaide, Black Hill is an accessible but often overlooked conservation park area. There are picnic grounds near the conservation park's Administration buildings and this area links in with the Athelstone oval and Wadmore Park, a Campbelltown City Council reserve.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48347078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48347078", "title": "Black Stone Minerals", "text": "Black Stone Minerals\n\nBlack Stone Minerals, L.P., or Black Stone Minerals, is a Houston, Texas-based oil and natural gas corporation.\n\nThe company was founded as W.T. Carter & Bro., a lumber company, in 1876.\n\nThe company discovered the Double A Wells Field in East Texas in 1985. It began drilling oil in the late 1980s. By 1992, it acquired the land rights of the Kirby Lumber Company, founded by John Henry Kirby. Four years later, in 1996, it divested from its holdings in the Double A Wells Field.\n\nAccording to \"Bloomberg Business\", by 2014 it owned millions of acres of interests in the \"Bakken/Three Forks plays, Eagle Ford Shale, Wolfcamp play, Haynesville/Bossier plays, Granite Wash play, and Fayetteville Shale, as well as in the Tuscaloosa Marine Shale and the Canyon Lime play located in 41 states and in 62 onshore basins in the continental United States.\"\n\nIt has been traded on the NASDAQ since 2015.\n"}
{"id": "2249619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2249619", "title": "Captain Planet and the Planeteers (video game)", "text": "Captain Planet and the Planeteers (video game)\n\nCaptain Planet and the Planeteers was a video game released for various platforms in the early 1990s, loosely based on the environmentalist animated series, \"Captain Planet and the Planeteers\" and produced by the third party developer Mindscape Inc. Three different versions were developed to suit three different platform capabilities, each with markedly different gameplay. The Amiga/Atari ST version was released in 1991, as was the ZX Spectrum/Amstrad CPC version, while the Nintendo Entertainment System version was released in 1992.\n\nThe NES version of the game has five levels, each of which are divided into two different type of stages. The first stage involves controlling the international teen heroes (Planeteers) flying their Eco-Jet to an enemy fortress, while trying to avoid the instant death that occurs by touching any of the scenery or getting hit by the various projectiles or birds. The second stage involves controlling Captain Planet himself as he fights his way to an ecovillain from the TV series.\n\nThe Amiga/Atari version has five stages, one for each planeteer, and a final stage in which Captain Planet could be controlled. Each planeteer stage has at least one objective, while some had two: to clean up pollution using the planeteer's magic ring power, and/or to rescue a particular type of animal with the aid of one of the planeteer vehicles. Completing the objectives opens the exit gate for the level; touching environmental hazards or the unusual monsters in the level will lose the player a life, while failing the objective by killing any of the animals will crack the planeteer's ring depicted at the bottom of the screen (in the Amiga version), opening the level's exit gate early. The final level allows the player to control Captain Planet, who must navigate to the end of the stage by using and swapping powers held in bubbles throughout the level, before defeating one of the ecovillans, which is either Hoggish Greedly, Dr. Blight and her computer MAL, Looten Plunder and his assistant Argos Bleak, or Duke Nukem.\n\nThe game features level set in the Yellowstone National Park, the Atlantic Ocean, Africa and Antarctica.\n\nThe NES version of the game was panned by most video game critics for its weak graphics, limited playability and difficulty. Mindscape was one of the many third party publishers of NES games that had a reputation of releasing low quality products. The difficulty in the game arose from the fact that the various powers of the geocruiser or Captain Planet had to be cycled through while the player was being actively attacked.\n"}
{"id": "36548037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36548037", "title": "DPIE", "text": "DPIE\n\nDPIE - discrete-pulse input of energy equipment realizes basic mechanisms and effects of the movements of a continuous phase connected with acceleration, action of pressure of shift, cavitations mechanisms, the mechanism of explosive boiling, collective effects in ensemble of vials and indignations of an interphase surface in liquid-gas bubble environments in scientific investigations.\n"}
{"id": "2039538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2039538", "title": "ECMWF re-analysis", "text": "ECMWF re-analysis\n\nThe ECMWF re-analysis project is a meteorological reanalysis project.\n\nThe first reanalysis product, ERA-15, generated re-analyses for approximately 15 years, from December 1978 to February 1994. The second product, ERA-40 (originally intended as a 40-year reanalysis) begins in 1957 (the International Geophysical Year) and covers 45 years to 2002. As a precursor to a revised extended reanalysis product to replace ERA-40, ECMWF released ERA-Interim, which covers the period from 1979 to present.\nA new reanalysis product ERA5 has recently been released by ECMWF as part of Copernicus Climate Change Services. This product has higher spatial resolution (31 km) and covers the period from 2000 to present. Extension up to 1950 will become available in early 2019.\n\nIn addition to re-analysing all the old data using a consistent system, the reanalyses also make use of much archived data that was not available to the original analyses. This allows for the correction of many historical hand-drawn maps where the estimation of features was common in areas of data sparsity. The ability is also present to create new maps of atmosphere levels that were not commonly used until more recent times.\n\nThe data can be downloaded for research use from ECMWF's homepage (see external links) and the National Center for Atmospheric Research data archives. Both require registration.\nA Python web API can be used to download a subset of parameters for a selected region and time period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27642888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27642888", "title": "Electric utility", "text": "Electric utility\n\nAn electric utility is a company in the electric power industry (often a public utility) that engages in electricity generation and distribution of electricity for sale generally in a regulated market. The electrical utility industry is a major provider of energy in most countries.\n\nElectric utilities include investor owned, publicly owned, cooperatives, and nationalized entities. They may be engaged in all or only some aspects of the industry. Electricity markets are also considered electric utilities—these entities buy and sell electricity, acting as brokers, but usually do not own or operate generation, transmission, or distribution facilities. Utilities are regulated by local and national authorities.\n\nElectric utilities are facing increasing demands including aging infrastructure, reliability, and regulation.\n\nAn electric power system is a group of generation, transmission, distribution, communication, and other facilities that are physically connected. The flow of electricity within the system is maintained and controlled by dispatch centers which can buy and sell electricity based on system requirements.\n\nThe executive compensation received by the executives in utility companies often receives the most scrutiny in the review of operating expenses. Just as regulated utilities and their governing bodies struggle to maintain a balance between keeping consumer costs reasonable and being profitable enough to attract investors, they must also compete with private companies for talented executives and then be able to retain those executives.\n\nRegulated companies are less likely to use incentive-based remuneration in addition to base salaries. Executives in regulated electric utilities are less likely to be paid for their performance in bonuses or stock options. They are less likely to approve compensation policies that include incentive-based pay. The compensation for electric utility executives will be the lowest in regulated utilities that have an unfavorable regulatory environment. These companies have more political constraints than those in a favorable regulatory environment and are less likely to have a positive response to requests for rate increases.\n\nJust as increased constraints from regulation drive compensation down for executives in electric utilities, deregulation has been shown to increase remuneration. The need to encourage risk-taking behavior in seeking new investment opportunities while keeping costs under control requires deregulated companies to offer performance-based incentives to their executives. It has been found that increased compensation is also more likely to attract executives experienced in working in competitive environments.\n\nThe Energy Policy Act of 1992 removed previous barriers to wholesale competition in the electric utility industry. Currently 24 states allow for deregulated electric utilities: Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas, Virginia, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Montana, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, and Washington D.C. As electric utility monopolies have been increasingly broken up into deregulated businesses, executive compensation has risen; particularly incentive compensation.\n\nOversight\n\nOversight is typically carried out at the national level, however it varies depending on financial support and external influences. There is no existence of any influential international energy oversight organization. There does exist a World Energy Council, but its mission is mostly to advise and share new information. It does not hold any kind of legislative or executive power. In the western hemisphere, many electric utility companies were under oversight from the United States and although the United States has, in the early 21st century, withdrawn from many of these countries. Several major energy utility companies are still under oversight from the United States.\n\nAlternative energy promotion\n\nAlternative energy has become more and more prevalent in recent times and as it is inherently independent of more traditional sources of energy, the market seems to have a very different structure. In the United States, to promote the production and development of alternative energies, there are many subsidies, rewards, and incentives that encourage companies to take up the challenge themselves. There is precedent for such a system working in countries like Nicaragua. In 2005, Nicaragua gave renewable energy companies tax and duty exemptions, which spurred a great deal of private investment.\n\nThe success in Nicaragua may not be an easily replicated situation however. The movement was known as Energiewende and it is generally considered a failure for many reasons. A primary reason was the fact that it was improperly timed and was proposed during a period in which their energy economy was under more competition.\n\nNuclear Energy\n\nNuclear energy may or may not be classified as a green source depending on the country. Although there used to be much more privatization in this energy sector, after the 2011 Fukushima district nuclear power plant disaster in Japan, there has been a move away from nuclear energy itself, especially for privately owned nuclear power plants. The criticism being that privatization of companies tend to have the companies themselves cutting corners and costs for profits which has proven to be disastrous in the worst-case scenarios. This placed a strain on many other countries as many foreign governments felt pressured to close nuclear power plants in response to public concerns. Nuclear energy however still holds a major part in many communities around the world.\n\nUtilities have found that it isn't simple to meet the unique needs of individual customers, whether residential, corporate, industrial, government, military, or otherwise. Customers in the twenty-first century have new and urgent expectations that demand a transformation of the electric grid. They want a system that increases a utility's capacity to use solar and wind to produce electricity. Customers also want a system that gives them new tools, better data to help manage energy usage, advanced protections against cyberattacks, and a system that minimizes outage times and quickens power restoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "53811648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53811648", "title": "Flat Landing Brook Formation", "text": "Flat Landing Brook Formation\n\nThe Flat Landing Brook Formation is a geological formation in\nGloucester County of northern New Brunswick, Canada. It consists mostly of volcanic rocks that were deposited 466 to 465 million years ago during the Darriwilian stage of the Middle Ordovician epoch.\n\nRhyolite flows, breccias and hyaloclastics are the primary rocks comprising the Flat Landing Brook Formation. Locally abundant rocks include tholeiitic to transitional mafic fragmental rocks and massive flows, as well as felsic tuffs, tholeiitic pillow basalts and minor porphyritic felsic flows. Siltstone, greywacke, iron formation, ferromanganiferous shale and chert represent minor rocks.\n\nThe Flat Landing Brook Formation is the middle member of the Telagouche Group. Exposures between Route 490 and the headwaters of Flat Landing Brook are the type locality. It is conformably overlain by massive pillowed alkali basalt of the Little River Formation and conformably underlain by crystal tuff as well as quartz-feldspar augen schist of the Nepisiguit Falls Formation. The contact of the Flat Landing Brook and Little River formations is exposed in the Brunswick Mines area and near California Lake whereas the contact of the Flat Landing Brook and Nepisiguit Falls formations is exposed along The Narrows of the Nepisiguit River.\n\nFour named subdivisions comprise the Flat Landing Brook Formation:\n\nWith an estimated original volume of approximately , the Flat Landing Brook Formation is the remains of a supervolcano similar in size and eruption rates with the Taupo and Yellowstone calderas. It may also represent the largest supervolcanic eruption of the Paleozoic era. Most of the volcanics were laid down during a timespan of possibly less than two million years. A region of coarse volcanic breccias in the Flat Landing Brook Formation is interpreted to be the remnants of a caldera.\n\n"}
{"id": "4306094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4306094", "title": "Flora Thompson", "text": "Flora Thompson\n\nFlora Thompson (5 December 1876 – 21 May 1947) was an English novelist and poet best known for her semi-autobiographical trilogy about the English countryside, \"Lark Rise to Candleford\".\n\nThompson was born Flora Jane Timms in Juniper Hill in northeast Oxfordshire, the eldest child of Albert and Emma Timms, a stonemason and nursemaid respectively. Albert and Emma had twelve children, but only six survived childhood. The young Flora's early education was at the parish school in the village of Cottisford where she was described as 'altogether her father's child'.\n\nIn 1891, at the age of 14, Flora moved to take up a position as counter clerk at the post office in Fringford, a village about northeast of Bicester, under the tutelage of the postmistress, Mrs Kezia Whitton. She later served at various other post offices, including offices at Grayshott, Yateley, and Bournemouth.\n\nIn 1903 she married John William Thompson, a post office clerk and telegraphist from the Isle of Wight, at Twickenham Parish Church, after which they moved to Bournemouth. The couple had a daughter, Winifred Grace (1903), and two sons, Henry Basil (1909) and Peter Redmond (1918).\n\nThompson's favourite brother, Edwin, was killed near Ypres in 1916.\n\nA self-taught and a largely self-educated writer, Thompson was thinking, as early as 1922, about writing of her childhood. In 1911 she had won an essay competition in \"The Ladies Companion\" for a 300-word essay about Jane Austen. She later wrote extensively, publishing short stories and magazine and newspaper articles. She was also a keen self-taught naturalist; many of her nature articles were anthologised in 1986.\n\nIn 1938 Thompson sent some essays on her country childhood to Oxford University Press. They were accepted and published in three separate volumes, \"Lark Rise\" (1939), \"Over to Candleford\" (1941), and \"Candleford Green\" (1943). In 1945 the books were republished as a trilogy under the title \"Lark Rise to Candleford\". The trilogy is a lightly disguised story of the author's own youth, describing life in a hamlet, a village, and a country town in the 1880s.\n\nTwo of Thompson's later lesser-known works were published posthumously: \"Heatherley\", recounting her time in the post office at Grayshott at the turn of the 20th century when several of her lifelong interests took shape, the longing for education and culture and the desire to become a writer; and her last book \"Still Glides the Stream\".\n\nH. J. Massingham said of Thompson in 1944, \"...she possesses the attributes both of sympathetic presentation and literary power to such a degree that her claims can hardly be questioned\". Thompson's essays have been said to reveal an impressive knowledge of English literature and a gift for writing intelligent but accessible prose for a general audience. She approached novel writing as an artistic process and her descriptions of nature are notably poetic.\n\nThompson's biographer, Gillian Lindsay, says, \"...this girl whose elementary education was not enough to allow her to take a Civil Service examination, had written a classic book, a piece of enduring literature,\" while Shuckburgh considers that it was her 'passion and control' that made Thompson such a good writer. Her entry in the ODNB says of the trilogy that \"Few works better or more elegantly capture the decay of Victorian agrarian England\".\n\nThompson's trilogy has been widely used as a primary source for the social history of the period, although some historians have expressed reservations as to its validity for that purpose.\n\nThe death of Thompson's younger son during the Second World War affected her deeply and overshadowed her final years. She died in 1947 of a heart attack in Brixham, and is buried at Longcross Cemetery, Dartmouth, Devon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12903", "title": "Gegenschein", "text": "Gegenschein\n\nGegenschein ( German for \"countershine\") is a faintly bright spot in the night sky, around the antisolar point. The backscatter of sunlight by interplanetary dust causes this optical phenomenon.\n\nLike the zodiacal light, the gegenschein is sunlight scattered by interplanetary dust. Most of this dust is orbiting the Sun in about the ecliptic plane, with a possible concentration of particles at the Earth–Sun Lagrangian point.\n\nIt is distinguished from zodiacal light by its high angle of reflection of the incident sunlight on the dust particles. It forms a slightly more luminous, oval glow directly opposite the Sun within the band of luminous zodiacal light. The intensity of the gegenschein is relatively enhanced, because each dust particle is seen in full phase.\n\nThe gegenschein was first described by the French Jesuit astronomer and professor (1692–1776) in 1730. Further observations were made by the German explorer Alexander von Humboldt during his South American journey from 1799 to 1803. It was also Humboldt who gave the phenomenon its German name Gegenschein.\n\nThe Danish astronomer Theodor Brorsen published the first thorough investigations of the gegenschein in 1854, stating that Pezenas was the first to see it. T. W. Backhouse discovered it independently in 1876, as did Edward Emerson Barnard in 1882. In modern times, the gegenschein is not visible in most inhabited regions of the world due to light pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "849220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849220", "title": "Greenstone belt", "text": "Greenstone belt\n\nGreenstone belts are zones of variably metamorphosed mafic to ultramafic volcanic sequences with associated sedimentary rocks that occur within Archaean and Proterozoic cratons between granite and gneiss bodies. \n\nThe name comes from the green hue imparted by the colour of the metamorphic minerals within the mafic rocks: the typical green minerals are chlorite, actinolite, and other green amphiboles. \n\nA greenstone belt is typically several dozens to several thousand kilometres long and although composed of a great variety of individual rock units, is considered a 'stratigraphic grouping' in its own right, at least on continental scales. \n\nTypically, a greenstone belt within the greater volume of otherwise homogeneous granite-gneiss within a craton contains a significantly larger degree of heterogeneity and complications and forms a tectonic marker far more distinct than the much more voluminous and homogeneous granites. Additionally, a greenstone belt contains far more information on tectonic and metamorphic events, deformations and palaeogeologic conditions than the granite and gneiss events, because the vast majority of greenstones are interpreted as altered basalts and other volcanic or sedimentary rocks. As such, understanding the nature and origin of greenstone belts is the most fruitful way of studying Archaean geological history. \n\nGreenstone belts have been interpreted as having formed at ancient oceanic spreading centers and island arc terranes. \n\nGreenstone belts are primarily formed of volcanic rocks, dominated by basalt, with minor sedimentary rocks inter-leaving the volcanic formations. Through time, the degree of sediment contained within greenstone belts has risen, and the amount of ultramafic rock (either as layered intrusions or as volcanic komatiite) has decreased. \n\nThere is also a change in the structure and relationship of greenstone belts to their basements between the Archaean where there is little clear relationship, if any, between basalt-peridotite sheets of a greenstone belt and the granites they abut, and the Proterozoic where greenstone belts sit upon granite-gneiss basements and/or other greenstone belts, and the Phanerozoic where clear examples of island arc volcanism, arc sedimentation and ophiolite sequences become more dominant.\n\nThis change in nature is interpreted as a response to the maturity of the plate tectonics processes throughout the Earth's geological history. Archaean plate tectonics did not take place on mature crust and as such the presence of thrust-in allochthonous greenstone belts is expected. By the Proterozoic, magmatism was occurring around cratons and with established sedimentary sources, with little recycling of the crust, allowing preservation of more sediments. By the Phanerozoic, extensive continental cover and lower heat flow from the mantle has seen greater preservation of sediments and greater influence of continental masses.\n\nGreenstones, aside from containing basalts, also give rise to several types of metamorphic rocks which are used synonymously with 'metabasalt' et cetera; greenschist, whiteschist and blueschist are all terms spawned from the study of greenstone belts.\n\nThe West African Lower Proterozoic greenstone belts are similar to the Archean greenstone belts. These similarities include a decrease in the\namount of ultramafic and mafic rocks as you move up the stratigraphic column, in addition to an increase in pyroclastics, felsic and/or andesite rocks. Also, the rock successions tend to have clastics in the upper portion and tholeiitic suites in the lower. Calc-alkaline dikes are common in these suites.\n\n\"Greenstone belts\" are distributed throughout geological history from the Phanerozoic Franciscan belts of California where blueschist, whiteschist and greenschist facies are recognised, through to the Palaeozoic greenstone belts of the Lachlan Fold Belt, Eastern Australia, and a multitude of Proterozoic and Archaean examples.\n\nArchaean greenstones are found in the Slave craton, northern Canada, Pilbara craton and Yilgarn Craton, Western Australia, Gawler Craton in South Australia, and in the Wyoming Craton in the US. Examples are found in South and Eastern Africa, namely the Kaapvaal craton and also in the cratonic core of Madagascar, as well as West Africa and Brazil, northern Scandinavia and the Kola Peninsula (see Baltic Shield). \n\nProterozoic greenstones occur sandwiched between the Pilbara and Yilgarn cratons in Australia, and adjoining the Gawler Craton and within the extensive Proterozoic mobile belts of Australia, within West Africa, throughout the metamorphic complexes surrounding the Archaean core of Madagascar; the eastern United States, northern Canada and northern Scandinavia. The Abitibi greenstone belt in Ontario and Quebec is one of the largest Archean greenstone belts in the world.\n\nPhanerozoic ophiolite belts and greenstone belts occur in the Franciscan Complex of south-western North America, within the Lachlan Fold Belt, the Gympie Terrane of Eastern Australia, the ophiolite belts of Oman and around the Guiana Shield. \n\nThe belts often contain ore deposits of gold, silver, copper, zinc and lead. \n\nOne of the best known greenstone belts in the world is the South African Barberton greenstone belt, where gold was first discovered in South Africa. The Barberton Greenstone belt was first uniquely identified by Prof Annhauser at the University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg. His work in mapping and detailing the characteristics of the Barberton Greenstone belt has been used as a primer for other greenstone belts around the world.\n\nHe noted the existence of pillow lavas, indicating a lava being rapidly cooled in water, as well as the spinifex textures created by crystals formed under rapidly cooling environments, namely water.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "172644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172644", "title": "Handedness", "text": "Handedness\n\nIn human biology, handedness is a better, faster, or more precise performance or individual preference for use of a hand, known as the dominant hand; the less capable or less preferred hand is called the non-dominant hand. Men are somewhat more likely to express a strongly dominant left hand than women. It is estimated that between 70 and 95 percent of the world's population is right-handed.\n\n\nThere are several theories of how handedness develops in individual humans. Occurrences during prenatal development may be important; researchers studied fetuses in utero and determined that handedness in the womb was a very accurate predictor of handedness after birth. In a 2013 study, 39% of infants (6 to 14 months) and 97% of toddlers (18 to 24 months) demonstrated a hand preference.\n\nOne common theory as to how handedness affects the hemispheres is the brain hemisphere division of labor. Since speaking and handiwork require fine motor skills, its presumption is that it would be more efficient to have one brain hemisphere do both, rather than having it divided up. Since in most people, the left side of the brain controls speaking, right-handedness predominates. This theory also predicts that left-handed people have a reversed brain division of labor.\n\nVerbal processing in right-handed individuals takes place mostly in the left hemisphere, whereas visuospatial processing is mostly done in the opposite hemisphere. Left-handed individuals have a heterogeneous brain organization in which their brain hemispheres are either organized in the same way as right-handers (but with the hemispheres reversed) or even such that both hemispheres are used for verbal processing. When the average is taken across all types of left-handedness, it shows that left-handers are less lateralized.\n\nHandedness displays a complex inheritance pattern. For example, if both parents of a child are left-handed, there is a 26% chance of that child being left-handed. A large study of twins from 25,732 families by Medland et al. (2006) has indicated that the heritability of handedness is roughly 24%.\n\nTo date, two theoretical single gene models have been proposed to explain the patterns of inheritance of handedness, the first by Marian Annett of the University of Leicester and the second by Chris McManus of UCL.\n\nHowever, the growing weight of evidence from linkage and genome-wide association studies suggests that genetic variance in handedness cannot be explained by a single genetic locus. From these studies McManus et al. now conclude that handedness is polygenic and estimate that at least 40 loci contribute to determining this trait.\n\nBrandler et al. performed a genome-wide association study for a measure of relative hand skill and found that genes involved in the determination of left/right asymmetry in the body play a key role in determining handedness. These results suggest the same mechanisms that determine left/right asymmetry in the body (e.g. Nodal signaling and ciliogenesis) also play a role in the development of brain asymmetry (handedness is an outward reflection of brain asymmetry for motor function).\n\nTwin studies indicate that genetic factors explain 25% of the variance in handedness, while environmental factors explain the remaining 75%. While the molecular basis of handedness epigenetics is largely unclear, Ocklenburg et al. 2017 found that asymmetric methylation of CpG sites plays a key role for gene expression asymmetries that have been related to handedness.\n\nFour studies have indicated that individuals who have had in-utero exposure to diethylstilbestrol (a synthetic estrogen based medication used between 1940 and 1971) were more likely to be left-handed over the clinical control group. Diethylstilbestrol animal studies \"suggest that estrogen affects the developing brain, including the part that governs sexual behavior and right and left dominance\".\n\nPrevic, after reviewing a large number of studies, found evidence that the position of the fetus in the final trimester and a baby's subsequent birth position can affect handedness. About two-thirds of fetuses present with their left occiput (back of the head) at birth. This partly explains why prematurity results in a decrease in right-handedness. Previc argues that asymmetric prenatal positioning creates asymmetric stimulation of the vestibular system, which is involved in the development of handedness. In fact, every major disorder in which patients show reduced right-handedness is associated with either vestibular abnormalities or delay, and asymmetry of the vestibular cortex is strongly correlated with the direction of handedness.\n\nAnother theory is that ultrasound may affect the brains of unborn children, causing higher rates of left-handedness in children whose mothers received ultrasounds during pregnancy. Research on this topic suggests there may exist a weak association between ultrasound screening (sonography used to check on the healthy development of the fetus and mother during pregnancy) and left-handedness.\n\nInfants have been known to fluctuate heavily when choosing a hand to lead in grasping and object manipulation tasks. This is especially shown when observing hand dominance in one versus two-handed grasping tasks. Between 36 and 48 months, variability between handedness in one handed grasping begins to decline significantly. This difference can be seen earlier in bi-manual manipulation tasks. Children aged 18 to 36 months showed more hand preference when performing bi-manipulation tasks than simple grasping. The decrease in handedness variability for 36-to-48-month-old children could likely be attributed to preschool or kindergarten attendance. The increase in required single hand grasping activities such as writing or coloring can force children to develop a hand preference.\n\nIn his book \"Right-Hand, Left-Hand\", Chris McManus of University College London argues that the proportion of left-handers is increasing and left-handed people as a group have historically produced an above-average quota of high achievers. He says that left-handers' brains are structured differently (in a way that increases their range of abilities) and the genes that determine left-handedness also govern development of the language centers of the brain.\n\nWriting in \"Scientific American,\" McManus states that,\nStudies in the U.K., U.S. and Australia have revealed that left-handed people differ from right-handers by only one IQ point, which is not noteworthy ... Left-handers' brains are structured differently from right-handers' in ways that can allow them to process language, spatial relations and emotions in more diverse and potentially creative ways. Also, a slightly larger number of left-handers than right-handers are especially gifted in music and math. A study of musicians in professional orchestras found a significantly greater proportion of talented left-handers, even among those who played instruments that seem designed for right-handers, such as violins. Similarly, studies of adolescents who took tests to assess mathematical giftedness found many more left-handers in the population.\n\nConversely, Joshua Goodman found evidence that left-handers were overrepresented amongst high end of the cognitive spectrum was weak due to methodological and sampling issues in conducted studies. Goodman also found that left-handers were overrepresented at the low end of the cognitive spectrum, with the mentally disabled being twice as likely to be left-handed compared to the general population, as well as generally lower cognitive and non-cognitive abilities amongst left-handed children. Moreover, Ntolka and Papadatou-Pastou in a systematic review and meta-analysis found that it is right-handers who have higher IQ scores, but this difference is negligible (about 1.5 points). \n\nNelson, Campbell, and Michel studied infants and whether developing handedness during infancy correlated with language abilities in toddlers. In the article they assessed 38 infants and followed them through to 12 months and then again once they became toddlers from 18–24 months. What they discovered was that when a child developed a consistent use of its right or left hand during infancy (such as using the right hand to put the pacifier back in, or grasping random objects with the left hand), it was more likely to have superior language skills as a toddler. Children who became lateral later than infancy (i.e., when they were toddlers) showed normal development of language and had typical language scores. The researchers used Bayley scales of infant and toddler development to assess all the subjects.\n\nLower-birth-weight and complications at birth are positively correlated with left-handness.\n\nA variety of neuropsychiatric and developmental disorders like autism spectrum disorders, depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia, and alcoholism has been associated with left- and mixed-handedness.\n\nA 2012 study showed that nearly 40% of children with cerebral palsy were left-handed, while another study demonstrated that Left-handedness was associated with a 62 percent increased risk of Parkinson's disease in women, but not in men. Another study suggests that the risk of developing multiple sclerosis increases for left-handed women, but the effect is unknown for men at this point.\n\nLeft-handed women have a higher risk of breast cancer than right-handed women and the effect is greater post-menopausal.\n\nAt least one study maintains that left-handers are more likely to suffer from heart disease, and in a cardiovascular context, are more likely to have reduced longevity.\n\nLeft-handers are more likely to suffer bone fractures.\n\nOne systematic review concluded: \"Left-handers showed no systematic tendency to suffer from disorders of the immune system\".\n\nIf handedness is entirely genetic, these health problems mean left-handness could be eliminated through natural selection. However, left-handers enjoy an advantage in fighting and sports increasing their likelihood of reproduction.\n\nIn a 2006 U.S. study, researchers from Lafayette College and Johns Hopkins University concluded that there was no statistically significant correlation between handedness and earnings for the general population, but among college-educated people, left-handers earned 10 to 15% more than their right-handed counterparts.\n\nMore recently, in a 2014 study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research, Harvard economist Joshua Goodman finds that left-handed people earn 10 to 12 percent less over the course of their lives than right-handed people. Goodman attributes this disparity to higher rates of emotional and behavioral problems in left-handed people.\n\nInteractive sports such as table tennis, badminton and cricket have an overrepresentation of left-handedness, while non-interactive sports such as swimming show no overrepresentation. Smaller physical distance between participants increases the overrepresentation. In fencing, about half the participants are left-handed.\n\nOther, sports-specific factors may increase or decrease the advantage left-handers usually hold in one-on-one situations:\n\n\nAccording to a meta-analysis of 144 studies, totaling 1,787,629 participants, the best estimate for the male to female odds ratio was 1.23, indicating 23% more men are left-handed. 11% of men and 9% of women would be approximately 10% overall, at a 1.22 male to female odds ratio.\n\nA number of studies examining the relationship between handedness and sexual orientation have reported that a disproportionate minority of homosexual people exhibit left-handedness, though findings are mixed.\n\nA 2001 study also found that children who were assigned male at birth but have different gender identities were more than twice as likely to be left-handed than a clinical control group (19.5% vs. 8.3%, respectively).\n\nParaphilias (atypical sexual interests) have also been linked to higher rates of left-handedness. A 2008 study analyzing the sexual fantasies of 200 males found \"elevated paraphilic interests were correlated with elevated non-right handedness\". Greater rates of left-handedness has also been documented among pedophiles.\n\nA 2014 study attempting to analyze the biological markers of asexuality asserts that non-sexual men and women were 2.4 and 2.5 times, respectively, more likely to be left-handed than their heterosexual counterparts.\n\nMany tools and procedures are designed to facilitate use by right-handed people, often without realizing the difficulties incurred by the left-handed. John W. Santrock has written, \"For centuries, left-handers have suffered unfair discrimination in a world designed for right-handers.\"\n\nMcManus noted that, beginning at the time of the Industrial Revolution, workers needed to operate complex machines that were almost certainly designed with right-handers in mind. This would have made left-handers more visible and at the same time appear less capable and more clumsy. During this era, children were taught to write with a dip pen. While a right-hander could smoothly drag the pen across paper from left to right, a dip pen could not easily be pushed across by the left hand without digging into the paper and making blots and stains.\n\nMoreover, apart from inconvenience, left-handed people have historically been considered unlucky or even malicious for their difference by the right-handed majority. In many European languages, including English, the word for the direction \"right\" also means \"correct\" or \"proper\". Throughout history, being left-handed was considered negative. The Latin adjective \"sinister\" means \"left\" as well as \"unlucky\", and this double meaning survives in European derivatives of Latin, including the English word \"sinister\" (only when referring to the bearer's left of a coat of arms).\n\nThere are many negative connotations associated with the phrase \"left-handed\": clumsy, awkward, unlucky, insincere, sinister, malicious, and so on. A \"left-handed compliment\" is considered one that is unflattering or dismissive in meaning. In French, \"gauche\" means both \"left\" and \"awkward\" or \"clumsy\", while \"droit(e)\" (cognate to English \"direct\" and related to \"adroit\") means both \"right\" and \"straight\", as well as \"law\" and the legal sense of \"right\". The name \"Dexter\" derives from the Latin for \"right\", as does the word \"dexterity\" meaning manual skill. As these are all very old words, they would tend to support theories indicating that the predominance of right-handedness is an extremely old phenomenon.\n\nBlack magic is sometimes referred to as the \"left-hand path\".\n\nUntil very recently in Taiwan (and still in Mainland China, Japan and both North and South Korea), left-handed people were strongly encouraged to switch to being right-handed, or at least switch to writing with the right hand. Due to the importance of stroke order, developed for the comfortable use of right-handed people, it is considered more difficult to write legible Chinese characters with the left hand than it is to write Latin letters, though difficulty is subjective and depends on the writer. Because writing when moving one's hand away from its side towards the other side of the body can cause smudging if the outward side of the hand is allowed to drag across the writing, writing in the Latin alphabet might possibly be less feasible with the left hand than the right under certain circumstances. Conversely, right-to-left alphabets, such as the Arabic and Hebrew, are generally considered easier to write with the left hand in general. Depending on the position and inclination of the writing paper, and the writing method, the left-handed writer can write as neatly and efficiently or as messily and slowly as right-handed writers. Usually the left-handed child needs to be taught how to write correctly with the left hand, since discovering a comfortable left-handed writing method on one's own may not be straightforward.\n\nInternational Left-Handers Day is held annually every August 13. It was founded by the Left-Handers Club in 1992, with the club itself having been founded in 1990. International Left-Handers Day is, according to the club, \"an annual event when left-handers everywhere can celebrate their sinistrality (left-handedness) and increase public awareness of the advantages and disadvantages of being left-handed.\" It celebrates their uniqueness and differences, who are from seven to ten percent of the world's population. Thousands of left-handed people in today's society have to adapt to use right-handed tools and objects. Again according to the club, \"in the U.K. alone there were over 20 regional events to mark the day in 2001- including left-v-right sports matches, a left-handed tea party, pubs using left-handed corkscrews where patrons drank and played pub games with the left hand only, and nationwide 'Lefty Zones' where left-handers' creativity, adaptability and sporting prowess were celebrated, whilst right-handers were encouraged to try out everyday left-handed objects to see just how awkward it can feel using the wrong equipment!\"\n\nKangaroos and other macropod marsupials have a left-hand preference for everyday tasks in the wild. 'True' handedness is unexpected in marsupials because, unlike placental mammals, they lack a corpus callosum. Left-handedness was particularly apparent in the red kangaroo (\"Macropus rufus\") and the eastern gray kangaroo (\"Macropus giganteus\"). Red-necked (Bennett's) wallabies (\"Macropus rufogriseus\") preferentially use their left hand for behaviours that involve fine manipulation, but the right for behaviours that require more physical strength. There was less evidence for handedness in arboreal species. Studies of dogs, horses, and domestic cats have shown that females of those species tend to be right-handed, while males are left-handed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22217626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22217626", "title": "Hellenic Journal of Geosciences", "text": "Hellenic Journal of Geosciences\n\nHellenic Journal of Geosciences (formerly \"Annales Géologiques des Pays Hélléniques\") publishes original contributions on all aspects of earth sciences. The \"Hellenic Journal of Geosciences\" () is published by the University of Athens. The University of Athens, Faculty of Geology and Geoenvironment performs the distribution of the journal, which is distributed in 200 libraries and Institutes in Europe, 103 in Greece and 66 in the rest of the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "331039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331039", "title": "Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge", "text": "Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge\n\nThe Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macau Bridge (HZMB), officially the Hong Kong–Zhuhai–Macao Bridge, is a bridge–tunnel system consisting of a series of three cable-stayed bridges, an undersea tunnel, and four artificial islands. It is both the longest sea crossing and the longest fixed link on earth. The HZMB spans the Lingding and Jiuzhou channels, connecting Hong Kong, Macau, and Zhuhai—three major cities on the Pearl River Delta. \n\nThe HZMB was designed to last for 120 years and built with a cost of 126.9 billion yuan (US$ billion). The cost of constructing the Main Bridge was estimated at 51.1 billion yuan (US$ 7.56 billion) funded by bank loans and shared among the governments of mainland China, Hong Kong and Macau.\n\nOriginally set to be opened to traffic in late 2016, the structure was completed on 6 February 2018 and journalists were subsequently given rides over the bridge. On 24 October 2018, the HZMB was opened to the public after its inauguration a day earlier by Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China and President of the People's Republic of China.\n\nHopewell Holdings founder and then-managing director Gordon Wu proposed the concept of a bridge-tunnel linking China, Hong Kong and Macau in the 1980s. Wu stated that he got the idea in 1983 from the Chesapeake Bay Bridge–Tunnel. In 1988, Wu pitched the concept to Guangdong and Beijing officials. He envisaged a link farther north than the current design, beginning at Black Point near Tuen Mun, Hong Kong and crossing the Pearl River estuary via Neilingding Island and Qi'ao Island. His proposed bridge would end at the Chinese village of Tangjia, and a new road would continue south through Zhuhai before terminating at Macau. Discussions stalled after the Tiananmen Square massacre in mid-1989 \"unnerved\" Wu and other foreign investors, and caused Hopewell's Hong Kong share prices to plunge.\n\nThe route proposed by Wu was promoted by the government of Zhuhai under the name Lingdingyang Bridge. In the mid-1990s, Zhuhai built a bridge between the mainland and Qi'ao Island that was intended as the first phase of this route, though the full scheme had not been approved by either the Chinese nor Hong Kong governments at that time. China's central government showed support for this project on 30 December 1997. The new Hong Kong government was reticent, stating that it was still awaiting cross-border traffic study results, and Hong Kong media questioned the environmental impact of the project with regard to air pollution, traffic and marine life.\n\nIn December 2001, the Legislative Council of Hong Kong passed a motion urging the Administration to develop the logistics industry including the construction of a bridge connecting Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macao. At a meeting of the China/Hong Kong Conference on Co-ordination of Major Infrastructure Projects held on 20 September 2002, it was agreed that a joint study should be conducted on the transport link between Hong Kong and Pearl River West.\n\nTo coordinate the project, the Advance Work Coordination Group of HZMB was set up in 2003. Officials from three sides solved the issues such as landing points and alignments of the bridge, operations of the Border Crossing Facilities and project financing.\n\nIn August 2008, China's Central Government, the governments of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macau agreed to finance 42% of the total costs. The remaining 58% consisted of loans (approximately 22 billion yuan or US$ 3.23 billion) from Bank of China.\n\nIn March 2009, it was further reported that China's Central Government, Hong Kong and Macau agreed to finance 22% of the total costs. The remaining 78% consisted of loans (approximately 57.3 billion yuan or US$ 8.4 billion) from a consortium of banks led by Bank of China.\n\nConstruction of the HZMB project began on 15 December 2009 on the Chinese side, with then-Vice Premier of China Li Keqiang holding a commencement ceremony. Construction of the Hong Kong section of the project began in December 2011 after a delay caused by a legal challenge regarding the environmental impact of the bridge.\n\nThe last bridge tower was erected on 2 June 2016, the last straighted-element of the straight section of the undersea tunnel was installed on 12 July 2016, while the final tunnel joint was installed on 2 May 2017. Construction of the Main Bridge, consisting of a viaduct and an undersea tunnel, was completed on 6 July 2017, and the construction of the whole project was completed on 6 February 2018.\n\nThe 55-km () HZMB consists of three main sections: the Main Bridge () in the middle of the Pearl River estuary, the Hong Kong Link Road () in the east and the Zhuhai Link Road () in the west of the estuary.\n\nThe Main Bridge, the largest part of the HZMB project, is a bridge-cum-tunnel system constructed by the mainland Chinese authorities. It connects an artificial island, housing the Boundary Crossing Facilities (BCF) for both mainland China and Macau in the west, to the Hong Kong Link Road in the east.\n\nThis section includes a 22.9-km () viaduct and a 6.7-km () undersea tunnel that runs between two artificial islands. The viaduct crosses the Pearl River estuary with three cable-stayed bridges spanning between 280 and 460 metres (920 and 1,510 ft), allowing shipping traffic to pass underneath.\n\nUnder Hong Kong jurisdiction, the Hong Kong Link Road was built by Highway Department to connect the Main Bridge to an artificial island housing the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing Facilities (HKBCF). This section includes a 9.4-km () viaduct, a 1-km () Scenic Hill Tunnel and a 1.6-km () at-grade road along the east coast of the Hong Kong International Airport.\n\nThe Zhuhai Link Road starts from an artificial island housing the Boundary Crossing Facilities for both mainland China and Macau, passes through the developed area of Gongbei via a tunnel towards Zhuhai, and connects to three major expressways, namely, the Jing-Zhu Expressway, Guang-Zhu West Expressway and Jiang-Zhu Expressway.\n\nAlthough the HZMB connects two left-hand traffic (LHT) areas, namely Hong Kong and Macau, the crossing itself is right-hand traffic (RHT), the same as in Zhuhai and other regions of China. Thus, drivers from Hong Kong and Macau need to make use of crossing viaducts to switch to RHT upon entering the bridge, and back to LHT upon leaving the bridge when they are back to Hong Kong and Macau. Traffic between Zhuhai and the bridge requires no left-right conversion as they are both RHT.\n\nShuttle buses are available 24 hours a day and depart up to every 5 minutes with tickets available for purchase from vending machines or ticket counters. They take around 40 minutes to cross the HZMB.\n\nThe HZMB Hong Kong Port can be reached from Hong Kong by taxis or various buses including Cityflyer airport (A-number) routes, or the B5 shuttle bus from Sunny Bay MTR station, or the B6 bus from Tung Chung.\n\nThe HZMB Zhuhai Port can be reached from the mainland by taxis or the L1 bus which uses historic tourist vehicles, or Line-12, 23, 25 or 3 buses.\n\nThe HZMB Macau Port can be reached from Macau by taxis or various buses including the 101X bus and the 102X bus from St Paul's and Taipa, or the HZMB Integrated Resort Connection bus from Taipa Ferry Terminal or the Exterior Ferry terminal, connecting with free casino shuttle buses.\n\nCurrently only 10,000 permits are available for private vehicles to drive across the HZMB from Hong Kong to Zhuhai. In addition, the number of vehicles permitted to enter Hong Kong and Macau from other regions is subject to a daily quota.\n\nSince the Hong Kong government imposes significant fees, taxes and administrative paperwork on private car ownership and usage to deal with road congestion, driving a car on the HZMB would incur the same restrictions as current cross-border traffic. These include applying for separate driving licences for both Hong Kong and mainland China, a Hong Kong Closed Road Permit for cross-boundary vehicles, and an Approval Notice from the Guangdong Public Security Bureau. Vehicle owners also need to ensure they have the appropriate insurance coverage for the regions they are travelling to.\n\nThe HZMB links three major cities Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau, which are geographically close but separated by water. With the bridge in place, travelling time between Zhuhai and Hong Kong would cut down from about four hours to 30 minutes on the road.\n\nThe HZMB project is part of a Beijing-driven strategy to create an economic hub and promote the economic development of the whole area of the Pearl River Delta, which is also known as Greater Bay Area. Hoping to leverage the bridge and create an economic zone linking the three cities, Zhuhai's Hengqin area was designated as a free trade zone in 2015.\n\nThe artificial island housing the Hong Kong Boundary Crossing Facilities (HKBCF) was reported drifting due to an unconventional method, hitherto unused in Hong Kong, for land reclamation with steel circular cells in a row pushed through the mud and filled with inert material to form a seawall.\n\nThe drifting of parts of the reclaimed island had allegedly caused a delay in the HZMB project. The Highways Department denied reports in various sources of movement up to 20 metres but admitted parts of the reclaimed land had moved \"up to six or seven metres\", claiming that some movement was expected and safety had not been jeopardised.\n\nMainland contractors were also reportedly having difficulty in constructing immersed tubes in their section of the project, with the director of the Guangdong National Development and Reform Commission stating that 2020 would be a difficult target to meet.\n\nIn 2017, the Main Bridge of the HZMB project experienced a cost overrun of about 10 billion yuan, arising from an increase in labor and material costs, as well as the refinement of the design and construction schemes.\n\nThe number of deaths and injuries that have taken place on the project has come under scrutiny in Hong Kong. Apart from nine fatal cases on the mainland side, there have been ten deaths reported on the Hong Kong side of the construction project, and somewhere between 234 and 600 injuries, depending on the source. In April 2017, the Construction Site Workers General Union, the Labour Party and the Confederation of Trade Unions demonstrated at the Central Government Complex, demanding the government take action.\n\nLawmaker Fernando Cheung also expressed concerns over the unknown death toll on the Chinese side of the project, stating: \"the project is known as the 'bridge of blood and tears’ and we are only talking about the Hong Kong side. We don’t even know what is happening in China. I suppose the situation could be 10 times worse than that in Hong Kong.\" He said that the Hong Kong Government had a responsibility to consider worker safety on the Chinese side.\n\nIn 2017, Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) arrested 21 employees (two senior executives, 14 laboratory technicians and five laboratory assistants) of Jacobs China Limited, a contractor of the Civil Engineering and Development Department for falsifying concrete test results, thus potentially risking the safety of bridge for public use. In December 2017, a lab technician pleaded guilty and was sentenced to imprisonment for eight months, while the others await sentencing. Hong Kong's Highways Department conducted tests again after the falsified results were exposed and found all test results met safety standards.\n\nIn April 2018, the public and media raised questions over the integrity of the seawalls protecting the artificial islands at both ends of the undersea tunnel. In footage taken by drone users and mariners, the dolosse installed at the edges of the artificial islands appear to have dislodged. Some civil engineers suggested that there was an error in design. In dismissing the safety concerns, the HZMB Authority said the dolosse were designed to be submerged and the design was working as intended. Director of Highways Department Daniel Chung denied on 8 April 2018 that the breakwater components had been washed away by waves.\n\nSubsequent aerial footage posted online showed a section of the dolosse breakwater completely underwater. Civil engineer So Yiu-kwan told Hong Kong media on 12 April 2018 that the water level, at the time the photos were taken, was about 1.74 mPD (metres above Principal Datum), but the maximum water level could reach 2.7 mPD. He said the dolosse would offer no wave protection if entirely submerged, and further alleged that they had been installed backwards.\n\nConservationists at WWF Hong Kong blamed the construction of the HZMB for the falling number of white dolphins in the waters near the bridge. The dolphins found near waters of Lantau were worst hit with numbers dropping by 60 per cent between April 2015 and March 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166213", "title": "Human condition", "text": "Human condition\n\nThe human condition is \"the characteristics, key events, and situations which compose the essentials of human existence, such as birth, growth, emotionality, aspiration, conflict, and mortality\". This is a very broad topic which has been and continues to be pondered and analyzed from many perspectives, including those of religion, philosophy, history, art, literature, anthropology, psychology, and biology.\n\nAs a literary term, \"the human condition\" is typically used in the context of ambiguous subjects such as the meaning of life or moral concerns.\n\nEach major religion has definitive beliefs regarding the human condition. For example, Buddhism teaches that life is a perpetual cycle of suffering, death, and rebirth from which humans can be liberated via the Noble Eightfold Path. Meanwhile, Christianity teaches that humans are born in a sinful condition and are doomed in the afterlife unless they receive salvation through Jesus Christ.\n\nPhilosophers have provided many perspectives. An influential ancient view was that of the \"Republic\" in which Plato explored the question \"what is justice?\" and postulated that it is not primarily a matter among individuals but of society as a whole, prompting him to devise a utopia. Two thousand years later René Descartes declared \"I think, therefore I am\" because he believed the human mind, particularly its faculty of reason, to be the primary determiner of truth; for this he is often credited as the father of modern philosophy. One such modern school, existentialism, attempts to reconcile an individual's sense of disorientation and confusion in a universe believed to be absurd.\n\nMany works of literature provide perspective on the human condition. One famous example is Shakespeare's monologue \"All the world's a stage\" that pensively summarizes seven phases of human life.\n\nPsychology has many theories, such as Maslow's hierarchy of needs and the notion of identity crisis. It also has various methods, e.g. the logotherapy developed by Holocaust survivor Viktor Frankl to discover and affirm human meaning. Another method, cognitive behavioral therapy, has become a widespread treatment for clinical depression.\n\nEver since 1859, when Charles Darwin published \"On the Origin of Species\", the biological theory of evolution has been significant. The theory posits that the human species is related to all others, living and extinct, and that natural selection is the primary survival factor. This has provided a basis for new beliefs, e.g. social Darwinism, and for new technology, e.g. antibiotics.\n\nNotable uses of the term \"the human condition\" include André Malraux's novel \"Man's Fate\", René Magritte's painting \"La Condition Humaine\", Hannah Arendt's political philosophy, and Masaki Kobayashi's film trilogy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1909720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1909720", "title": "Icelandic Low", "text": "Icelandic Low\n\nThe Icelandic Low is a semi-permanent centre of low atmospheric pressure found between Iceland and southern Greenland and extending in the Northern Hemisphere winter into the Barents Sea. In summer it weakens and splits into two centres, one near Davis Strait and the other west of Iceland. It is a principal centre of action in the atmosphere circulation of the Northern Hemisphere, associated with frequent cyclone activity. It forms one pole of the North Atlantic oscillation, the other being the Azores High.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40190336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40190336", "title": "Indian Ocean Tuna Commission", "text": "Indian Ocean Tuna Commission\n\nThe Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC; ) is an intergovernmental organization that co-ordinates the regulation and management of tuna in the Indian Ocean. Conceived in 1993, it entered into existence in 1996.\n\nA multilateral treaty, the Agreement for the Establishment of the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission was approved by the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations in November 1993. The agreement entered into force on 27 March 1996 after it had been accepted by a tenth party. The Agreement is open to any state that has coasts within the Indian Ocean region (or adjacent seas) as well as any state that fishes for tuna in the Indian Ocean region. The agreement is also open to regional economic organizations.\n\nThe IOTC is the successor to the Indo-Pacific Tuna Development and Management Programme, which was established in 1982.\n\nAs of July 2016, there are 32 members of IOTC:\nVanuatu was a member of the IOTC between 2012 and 2015. It chose to withdraw from the organization.\n\nIOTC headquarters are located in Victoria, Seychelles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7798259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7798259", "title": "John Day Formation", "text": "John Day Formation\n\nThe John Day Formation is a series of rock strata exposed in the Picture Gorge district of the John Day River basin and elsewhere in north-central Oregon in the United States. The Picture Gorge exposure lies east of the Blue Mountain uplift, which cuts southwest–northeast through the Horse Heaven mining district northeast of Madras. Aside from the Picture Gorge district, which defines the type, the formation is visible on the surface in two other areas: another exposure is in the Warm Springs district west of the uplift, between it and the Cascade Range, and the third is along the south side of the Ochoco Mountains. All three exposures, consisting mainly of tuffaceous sediments and pyroclastic rock rich in silica, lie unconformably between the older rocks of the Clarno Formation below and Columbia River basalts above.\n\nThe strata, which vary in age from 39 million years to 18 million years, were formed mainly from ashfalls from volcanoes due to a series of calderas now linked to the Yellowstone hotspot. Some of the major layers within the group exposed in the Picture Gorge district are the Big Basin Formation and Bridge Creek Beds (35 to 32 million years), the Turtle Cove Formation (30 to 28 million years), the Picture Gorge Ignimbrite (28.7 million years), the Kimberly Formation (28 to 25 million years), and the Haystack Formation (25 to 18 million years).\n\nLocated in the general vicinity of what became the Cascade Range, the John Day volcanoes emitted large volumes of ash and dust, much of which settled in the John Day basin. The rapid deposition of the ash preserved the remains of plants and animals living in the region. Some of the solidified ash and the fossils they contain are found in the John Day Fossil Beds National Monument. Because ash and other debris fell during varied climatic and volcanic conditions and accumulated from many eruptions extending into the early Miocene (about 20 million years ago), the sediment layers in the fossil beds vary in their chemical composition and color. The lowermost layer contains red ash, such as that exposed in the Painted Hills Unit of the national monument. The layer above it is mainly pea-green clay. On top of the pea-green layer are buff-colored layers.\n\nFossils found in the John Day Formation include a wide variety of plants and more than 100 species of mammals, including dogs, cats, oreodonts, horses, camels, and rodents. Among the notable plant fossils are \"Metasequoia\" (Dawn Redwood), a genus thought to have gone extinct worldwide until it was discovered alive in China in the early twentieth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "11008433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11008433", "title": "Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security", "text": "Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security\n\nThe Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security (abbreviated CHS; previously the UPMC Center for Health Security, the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC, and the Johns Hopkins Center for Civilian Biodefense Strategies) is an independent, nonprofit organization of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health that works in the area of health consequences from epidemics and disasters. It is a think tank that does policy research and gives policy recommendations to the United States government.\n\nThe Center for Health Security began as the Johns Hopkins Center for Civilian Biodefense Strategies (CCBS) in 1998 at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. D. A. Henderson served as the founding director. At that time, the Center was the first and only academic center focused on biosecurity policy and practice.\n\nAt one point around 2003, CHS had become part of a new umbrella organization called the Institute for Global Health and Security at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health.\n\nIn November 2003, the leaders left Johns Hopkins to join the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), and relaunched the Center as the Center for Biosecurity of UPMC. This move apparently split the organization in two, and it is unclear what happened to the old organization.\n\nOn April 30, 2013, the Center changed its name from \"Center for Biosecurity of UPMC\" to \"UPMC Center for Health Security\". This name change reflected a broadening of the scope of CHS's work.\n\nIn January 2017, the Center became part of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Its domain name changed from upmchealthsecurity.org to centerforhealthsecurity.org.\n\nIn 2002, the Center received a $1 million grant from the US federal government.\n\nBefore 2017, CHS was heavily reliant on government funding.\n\nIn January 2017, the Open Philanthropy Project awarded a $16 million grant over three years to the Center for Health Security.\n\nThe Center for Health Security publishes three online newsletters:\n\n\nIt also provides editorial oversight for the journal \"Health Security\", which was launched in 2003 and called \"Biosecurity and Bioterrorism: Biodefense Strategy, Practice, and Science\" until 2015.\n\nCHS also publishes the blog \"The Bifurcated Needle\".\n\nThe Open Philanthropy Project's grant writeup of CHS noted several publications:\n\nThe Center has published in journals including \"JAMA\" and \"The Lancet\". A full list of publications is available on the CHS website. , the list shows more than 400 publications.\n\nOn May 15, 2018, the Center hosted Clade X, a day-long pandemic tabletop exercise that simulated a series of National Security Council–convened meetings of 10 US government leaders, played by individuals prominent in the fields of national security or epidemic response.\n\nDrawing from actual events, Clade X identified important policy issues and preparedness challenges that could be solved with sufficient political will and attention. These issues were designed in a narrative to engage and educate the participants and the audience.\n\nClade X was livestreamed on Facebook and extensive materials from the exercise are available online.\n\nOn January 14, 2005, CHS helped to host Atlantic Storm, a table-top smallpox bioterrorism simulation.\n\nFrom June 22–23, 2001, CHS co-hosted Operation Dark Winter, a senior-level bioterrorism attack simulation involving a covert and widespread smallpox attack on the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "344568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=344568", "title": "List of California state parks", "text": "List of California state parks\n\nThis is a list of parks, historic resources, reserves and recreation areas in the California State Parks system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59046055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59046055", "title": "List of Mallomonas species", "text": "List of Mallomonas species\n\nThe algae genus Mallomonas contains the following species, forms, and varieties:\n"}
{"id": "650289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650289", "title": "List of National Wild and Scenic Rivers", "text": "List of National Wild and Scenic Rivers\n\nThis is a list of the designated National Wild and Scenic Rivers in the United States. Some rivers may be listed more than once if they have designated sections in different states.\n\nInitials of the managing agency follow the name of the river. Abbreviations used are:\n\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070364", "title": "List of SSSIs in Mid &amp; South Glamorgan", "text": "List of SSSIs in Mid &amp; South Glamorgan\n\nDue to subsequent local government reorganisation in the UK since 1972, many counties and districts have been divided, merged or renamed. Using the AOS system alone would make it difficult to search for individual SSSI citations via the Countryside Council for Wales (CCW) database without knowing 1972 region divisions. As a result, the CCW groups Welsh SSSIs using the subdivisions of Wales formed in April 1996 by the Local Government (Wales) Act 1994, resulting in 22 principal areas.\n\nMid & South Glamorgan AOS lies within the counties of Bridgend, Caerphilly, Cardiff, Merthyr Tydfil, Rhondda Cynon Taf and Vale of Glamorgan.\n\nFor SSSIs elsewhere in the UK, see List of SSSIs by Area of Search.\n\n"}
{"id": "42981259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42981259", "title": "List of animals that produce silk", "text": "List of animals that produce silk\n\nSilk is produced by a variety of animals, for different purposes, with various types being produced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10077760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10077760", "title": "List of bacterial orders", "text": "List of bacterial orders\n\nThis article lists the orders of the Bacteria.\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Actinobacteria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Aquificae.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Armatimonadetes.\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Bacteroidetes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Chlamydiae.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Chlorobi.\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Chloroflexi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Chrysiogenetes.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Cyanobacteria.\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Deferribacteres.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Deinococcus-Thermus.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Dictyoglomi.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Elusimicrobia.\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Fibrobacteres.\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Firmicutes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Fusobacteria.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Gemmatimonadetes.\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Lentisphaerae.\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Nitrospirae.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Planctomycetes.\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Proteobacteria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Spirochaetes.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Synergistetes.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Thermodesulfobacteria.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Thermotogae.\n\n\nThis section lists the orders of Bacteria within the phylum Verrucomicrobia.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13004461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13004461", "title": "List of conventional hydroelectric power stations", "text": "List of conventional hydroelectric power stations\n\nThis article lists hydroelectric power stations that generate power using the conventional dammed method. This list includes power stations that are larger than in maximum net capacity, and are operational or under construction. Those power stations that are smaller than , or those that are only at a planning/proposal stage may be found in regional lists, listed at the end of the page.\n\nAs of 2016, the largest hydroelectric power station is the Three Gorges Dam in China, rated at in total installed capacity. After passing on 7 December 2007 the mark of the Itaipu Dam, the facility was ranked as the largest power-generating facility ever built. The dam is high, long and in width. Power is generated by 32 turbines rated at , and two turbines rated , which are used to power the facility itself. Construction of this dam commenced in 1994, and was completed in 2012, nearly two decades after it started.\n\nThe next four largest dams after the Three Gorges Dam are the Itaipu Dam, Xiluodu Dam, Guri Dam and the Tucurui Dam, rated at , , and respectively. All five dams are the largest power-generating bodies respectively, before the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant at , the largest non-renewable energy-generating facility in the world. The currently planned Grand Inga Dam would be nearly twice the size of the Three Gorges Dam at , surpassing all power-generating facilities once it passes the current-highest mark.\n\nThe following two lists rank the 186 largest conventional hydroelectric power stations that have an installed electric power generation capacity of at least 1,000 MW and also 31 plants under construction with planned capacity of at least 1,000 MW.\n"}
{"id": "46938179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46938179", "title": "List of mountain peaks of Nevada", "text": "List of mountain peaks of Nevada\n\nThis article comprises three sortable tables of major mountain peaks of the U.S. State of Nevada.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nOf the highest major summits of Nevada, seven peaks exceed elevation and 37 peaks exceed elevation.\n\nOf the most prominent summits of Nevada, Charleston Peak and Wheeler Peak exceed of topographic prominence, eight peaks are ultra-prominent summits with more than of topographic prominence, and the following 52 peaks exceed .\n\nOf the most isolated major summits of Nevada, Wheeler Peak and Charleston Peak exceed of topographic isolation and six peaks exceed of topographic isolation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38518532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38518532", "title": "List of nature centers in North Carolina", "text": "List of nature centers in North Carolina\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of North Carolina. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591378", "title": "List of stars in Canes Venatici", "text": "List of stars in Canes Venatici\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Canes Venatici, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8591903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591903", "title": "List of stars in Volans", "text": "List of stars in Volans\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Volans, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40261531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40261531", "title": "List of tributaries of the Fraser River", "text": "List of tributaries of the Fraser River\n\nThis is a partial listing of tributaries of the Fraser River. Tributaries and sub-tributaries are hierarchically listed in upstream order from the mouth of the Fraser River. The list may also include streams known as creeks and sloughs. Lakes are noted in italics.\n\nAll of these streams are in British Columbia, Canada, except the upper Vedder River (Chilliwack River) and some of its tributaries, which are in Washington, United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10715548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10715548", "title": "Little River (North Carolina)", "text": "Little River (North Carolina)\n\nLittle River may refer to ten streams by that name in the U.S. state of North Carolina:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "835139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=835139", "title": "Margaritasite", "text": "Margaritasite\n\nMargaritasite is a yellow, caesium-bearing mineral in the carnotite group. Its chemical formula is (Cs, K, HO)(UO)VO·HO and its crystal system is monoclinic.\n\nIt was first described in 1982 from the Margaritas uranium deposit in the Peña Blanca district of the municipality of Aldama, in the Mexican state of Chihuahua.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14421701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14421701", "title": "Mount Cameroon and Bioko montane forests", "text": "Mount Cameroon and Bioko montane forests\n\nThe Mount Cameroon and Bioko montane forests ecoregion, of the tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests Biome, are in Afromontane habitats in Cameroon and Equatorial Guinea of Africa.\n\nThe ecoregion includes the distinct montane forests on the higher elevations of two volcanic peaks, Mount Cameroon, which lies in Cameroon near the coast, and Bioko, a volcanic island to the southwest in Equatorial Guinea.\n\nBoth Bioko and Mount Cameroon are part of the Cameroon Volcanic Line, a line of volcanoes that runs northeast-southwest across the Cameroon Highlands and extending into the Atlantic Ocean as the islands of Bioko, São Tomé, Príncipe, and Annobon. At over 4,000m Mount Cameroon is the highest peak in west Africa, and is still an active volcano. \nThe southwestern slopes of these mountains have a wet climate all-year round.\n\nThe montane forests of Mount Cameroon and Bioko are home to the distinct Afromontane flora of Africa's high mountains. The chief plant communities are montane forests, montane grasslands, and heathlands. At least 42 plant species are strictly endemic and another 50 near-endemic to Mount Cameroon.\n\n370 species of birds have been recorded on Mount Cameroon, including some endemics. There is less variety of mammals, and most larger mammals have disappeared, but there are some endemics such as the Cameroon soft-furred mouse (Praomys morio), and a greater variety of reptiles and amphibians including the endemic toad, Werneria preussi.\n\nThe forest of Mount Cameroon is threatened, especially at lower elevations, by conversion to agriculture and timber production, and are mostly unprotected. On Bioko Bioko some habitat is protected by Luba Crater Scientific Reserve.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1311263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1311263", "title": "Norwegian Polar Institute", "text": "Norwegian Polar Institute\n\nThe institute was founded as \"Norges Svalbard- og Ishavsundersøkelser\" by AdolfAdo Hoel in 1928.\n\nAtmospheric levels of the main greenhouse gas have set another new peak in a sign of the industrial rise of Asian economies led by China. The Norwegian Polar Institute has stated that in 2008 \"the levels already in January are higher than 2007\" .\n"}
{"id": "30755519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30755519", "title": "Omer Tarin", "text": "Omer Tarin\n\nOmer Tarin (real name: Omer Salim Khan), FRAS, FRPA, etc.; born 10 March 1967 , is a Pakistani poet, research scholar, social activist and mystic. In some editions of his works, the name is written as Omar Tarin.\n\nTarin was born in Peshawar city, in 1967 to the Tarin (or Tareen) family, or clan, of Talokar (village), of the Hazara region of the North-West Frontier (now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa), while his father was posted as a senior civil servant and administrator in Peshawar. From his maternal side, he is related to the Hayat family of Wah, as well as the Hakim Khana family of Lahore, Punjab. He was educated at the Burn Hall School (now Army Burn Hall College), Abbottabad and the Aitchison College, Pakistan, prior to graduating from the University of the Punjab, Lahore. He later obtained various higher degrees in English and Post-colonial Studies from Pakistan and abroad.\n\nAfter a short time in the civil service of Pakistan, Tarin resigned to become a full-time university lecturer and research scholar and involved himself in literary and academic pursuits. He has published five volumes of poetry in English so far, widely reviewed in Pakistan and abroad, as well as several poems published in anthologies and collections worldwide. His volumes of poetry are : \"A Sad Piper\" (1994; 1996 UK),\"The Anvil of Dreams\" (1995), \"Burnt Offerings\" (1996, 1997) and \"Riverbeds Flowing\" and \"The Harvest of Love Songs\" (1997, 2000; and UK ed 2003). Since 2005, he has not published any new volumes of poetry although he has been publishing poems independently from time to time. In recent years, he has also been involved in various literary and historical projects of an academic nature, chiefly focussing on the colonial history of South Asia, in particular North-Western Pakistan. Recent academic publications include works on military history/campaigns on the Frontier and some work on Rudyard Kipling and Kipling's India. A number of these works are available or referenced online, and were published in the \"Kipling Journal\", UK and the \"Journal of the Indian Military Historical Society\", also the UK. He has diverse academic and literary interests and is a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society, UK, The Tolkien Society (UK), associate of the Kipling Society, and the former Indian Military Historical Society (IMHS).\n\nIn addition to his literary and academic interests, Omer Tarin has also long been involved in occasional social activism, especially in relation to environmental, forests and wildlife conservation, in the Hazara, Pakistan area. He also makes comments on various aspects of global politics and environmental issues in the media, from time to time. He also ran a research and higher education institute in Northern Pakistan from 2003 to 2012.\n\nSince 2003, Tarin has mostly been managing his properties in several parts of Pakistan.\n\nOmer Tarin's poetry holds a notable place in Pakistani poetry in English. It has a certain erudite grace, a universal, humanitarian quality and passionate involvement that raises it above the general run of much of the work recently published in Pakistan and South Asia, generally. It seems to be deeply influenced by the mystic, transcendental tradition of the great Sufi and Bhakti poets of the South Asian subcontinent, such as Hazrat Baba Farid 'Ganj Shakar', Baba Bulleh Shah, Amir Khusrow, Rahman Baba, Kabir Das and even Guru Nanak, in addition to that of the classical Sufi poets and writers of Islam such as Rumi, Hafiz, Saadi and Attar —in terms of its essential lyricism, its engagement with 'human' issues, problems and challenges; as well as in the experimentation with form and content, in ways that have certainly not been attempted by other poets here today. He has also a fascination with Japan and Japanese Culture and esoteric, or meditative practices, which find reflection in his works. In the words of Tariq Rahman, a noted Pakistani scholar and literary critic, \"a certain force of vitality\" and creative 'intensity' is to be found in Tarin's writings that unveils the depths of the poet's knowledge, wisdom and deep understanding of the cultural heritage of his own society as well as Western and other world literary-symbolic traditions. One of Tarin's early poetic mentors, to whom he owes a great deal and to whom he himself paid tribute, was the late , one of the pioneers of English poetry in Pakistan/South Asia, an important scholar of Punjabi Sufic poetry in his own right. His indelible influence is quite manifest in Tarin's own poetical development.\n\nTarin's poetry reflects certain basic, recurring qualities such as a broad, universal humanity; a mystical regard for nature, life and the universe; a sense of the frailty of human existence and a continued concern with the central issues of life/death and immortality; which also inform his style, and the system of symbolism and images that consequently arises from this, via which \"...new patterns emerge in our perception of the world, of creation, of ourselves and our motivations\".\n\nTarin's major publications include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "803925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803925", "title": "Parthenium argentatum", "text": "Parthenium argentatum\n\nParthenium argentatum, commonly known as the guayule ( or , as in Spanish), is a flowering shrub in the aster family, Asteraceae, that is native to the southwestern United States and northern Mexico. It was originally discovered by J.M. Bigelow in 1852 and was first described by Asa Gray. It can be found in the US states of New Mexico and Texas and the Mexican states of Zacatecas, Coahuila, Chihuahua, San Luis Potosí, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas. The plant can be used as an alternative source of latex that is also hypoallergenic, unlike the normal \"Hevea\" rubber. In pre-Columbian times, the guayule was a secondary source of latex for rubber, the principal source being the \"Castilla elastica\" tree. The name \"guayule\" derives from the Nahuatl word \"ulli/olli\", \"rubber\".\n\nFor sustainable production, guayule grows well in arid and semi arid areas of the southwestern United States, North Central Mexico and regions with similar climates around the world. Because the guayule plant produces terpene resins, which are natural pesticides, it is resistant to many pests and diseases. Herbicides are primarily necessary for stand establishment.\n\nIn the 1920s, the plant saw a brief and intense amount of agricultural research when the Intercontinental Rubber Company in California produced 1400 tons of rubber after leaf blight decimated the Brazilian rubber industry. Guayule would again become a replacement for \"Hevea\" tree-produced latex during World War II when Japan cut off America's Malaysian latex resources. The war ended before large-scale farming of the guayule plant began, and the project was scrapped, as it was cheaper to import tree-derived latex than to crush the shrubs for a smaller amount of latex.\n\nCurrently, PanAridus and Yulex are the only commercial producers of guayule natural rubber in the world. Yulex have partnered with Patagonia who are now making its Yulex wetsuit from Guayule derived plant stems in a 60/40 blend (60% guayule, 40% neoprene), reducing dependence on conventional neoprene.\n\nIn October 2015, the Bridgestone Corporation announced the creation of the first tires made entirely of guayule rubber, having built an experimental farm and biorubber research center in Mesa, Arizona the previous year. The guayule is grown in Mesa and Eloy, Arizona.\n\nRecently, the guayule plant has seen a small but growing resurgence in research and agriculture due to its hypoallergenic properties. While \"Hevea\"-derived rubber contains proteins that can cause severe allergic reactions in a few people, guayule does not. With the AIDS crisis of the 1980s, the surge in rubber glove usage revealed how many people were allergic to latex (about 10% of health care workers, according to OSHA), and thereby created a niche market for guayule. There are synthetic alternatives for medical device products, but they are not as stretchable as natural rubber. Guayule performs like \"Hevea\" but contains none of the proteins that cause latex allergies.\n\nSelection of high-yielding guayule is complicated by its breeding system, which is primarily apomixis (asexual cloning via gametes). However, the breeding system is somewhat variable and considerable genetic variation exists within wild populations. Selection of high-yielding lines has been successful.\n\nGuayule's viability as a potential biofuel has been enhanced recently in light of commentary from a variety of experts, including Lester R. Brown of the Earth Policy Institute, stating that \"[food based] biofuels pit the 800 million people with cars against the 800 million people with hunger problems,\" meaning that biofuels derived from food crops (like maize) raise world food prices. Guayule can be an economically viable biofuel crop that does not increase the world's hunger problem. Guayule has another benefit over food crops as biofuel - it can be grown in areas where food crops would fail.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21622707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21622707", "title": "Pneurop", "text": "Pneurop\n\nPNEUROP is the European Association of manufacturers of compressors, vacuum pumps, pneumatic tools and allied equipment, represented by their national associations.\n\nThe compressed air trade associations of France, Germany and the UK formed a trading organization in 1958.In 1960, more countries joined and it became PNEUROP.\n\nPNEUROP celebrated its formal 50th anniversary on 6 November 2008 by organizing a conference in Brussels with its programme and presentations by the different committees.\n\nPNEUROP speaks on behalf of its members in European and international forums concerning the harmonisation of technical, normative and legislative developments in the field of compressors, vacuum pumps, pneumatic tools and allied equipment.\n\nThe association is cooperating with and contributing to several ISO committees including TC 112 (Vacuum Technology) and TC 118 (Compressor).\n\nPNEUROP is committed to develop energy efficiency and environmental protection among its member organizations and members, as explained in a recent official statement.\nPneurop supports the overall sustainable energy policy objectives of the European Union and its member companies actively promote energy efficiency as part of their daily business activity.\n\nPneurop is registered under the European Union 'Transparency Register' - ID number: 67236492080-88 \n\nThe PNEUROP General Assembly officially approved the launch of a new project entitled “Pneurop Green Challenge 2020\". Through this project, manufacturers, represented by their national associations, wish to draw attention to the importance of their equipment which is vital in reaching Europe’s 2020 goals in terms of energy savings, development of renewable energy and a reduction in CO2 emissions.\nCompressors and vacuum pumps are used not only in projects for storage of CO but also in the manufacture of photovoltaic cells and in the transport and storage of hydrogen. These examples are part of the vast list of products and applications which professionals would like to make better known to the general public.\n\nThis determination to develop and promote these technologies of the future is the consequence of the industry’s long-held commitment to reduce the environmental impact of the different production phases, to develop an ecologically sound approach to product design, and to encourage recycling of products.\n\nSustainability projects and low carbon initiatives need compressed air, gas and vacuum equipment. This is formalized under a signature and a logo \"Air Everywhere\".\n\nPneurop is an active stakeholder of the Ecodesign Preparatory Study on Electric motor systems/compressors (Ener Lot 31) \n\nPNEUROP's office is located in Diamant Building in Brussels. The work is achieved through product network :\n\nPNEUROP is an international brand/trade name that was registered in 2007 with its logo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "601086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=601086", "title": "Rarefaction", "text": "Rarefaction\n\nRarefaction is the reduction of an item's density, the opposite of compression.\nLike compression, which can travel in waves (sound waves, for instance), rarefaction waves also exist in nature. A common rarefaction wave is the area of low relative pressure following a shock wave (see picture).\n\nRarefaction waves expand with time (much like sea waves spread out as they reach a beach); in most cases rarefaction waves keep the same overall profile ('shape') at all times throughout the wave's movement: it is a \"self-similar expansion\". Each part of the wave travels at the local speed of sound, in the local medium. This expansion behaviour is in contrast to the behaviour of pressure increases, which gets narrower with time, until they steepen into shock waves.\n\nA natural example of rarefaction occurs in the layers of Earth's atmosphere. Because the atmosphere has mass, most atmospheric matter is nearer to the Earth due to the Earth's gravitation. Therefore, air at higher layers of the atmosphere is less dense, or \"rarefied\", relative to air at lower layers. Thus rarefaction can refer either to a reduction in density over space at a single point of time, or a reduction of density over time for one particular area.\n\nRarefaction can be easily observed by compressing a spring and releasing it. Instead of seeing compressed loops seeming to move through the spring, spaced-out loops move through it: rarefaction waves.\n\nModern construction of guitars is an example of using rarefaction in manufacturing. By forcing the reduction of density (loss of oils and other impurities) in the cellular structure of the soundboard, a rarefied guitar top produces a tonal decompression affecting the sound of the instrument, mimicking aged wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "22215356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215356", "title": "Ray Mears' World of Survival", "text": "Ray Mears' World of Survival\n\nRay Mears' World of Survival is a book written by Ray Mears and a TV series by the same name.\n"}
{"id": "9716366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9716366", "title": "Romincka Forest", "text": "Romincka Forest\n\nRomincka Forest (, ), also known as Krasny Les () or Rominte Heath (), is an extended forest and heath landscape stretching from the southeast of Russian Kaliningrad Oblast to the northeast of Polish Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship. The palaearctic ecoregion is part of the Taiga and boreal forests biome.\n\nThe Polish and German names of the forest, like the \"Rominta/Rominte\" river and the settlement of \"Rominty/Rominten\", are derived from the Lithuanian syllable \"rom\", meaning calm, as the forest is in the land called Lithuania Minor. The Russian name, \"Krasny Les\", means \"Red Forest\".\n\nThe total area of the Romincka landscape is about , stretching from the Masurian Lake District in the southwest up to the border with Lithuania at Lake Vištytis in the east. The southern Polish part (about one-third of the area) comprises a protected zone known as Puszcza Romincka Landscape Park.\n\nThe Krasnaya River flows through the Romincka Forest. Major settlements in the area include Krasnolesye in Kaliningrad Oblast, as well as Żytkiejmy and Gołdap in Poland.\n\nPart of the East Prussian historic region, the extended forests were known for its red deer populations and became a popular hunting ground of the Hohenzollern princes ruling the Duchy of Prussia since 1525. Part of the German Empire from 1871 onwards, a vast premise in \"Rominter Heide\" was purchased by Emperor Wilhelm II, who had his Rominten Hunting Lodge erected here in 1891, including a chapel dedicated to Saint Hubertus. Hunt scenes were perpetuated by notable painters such as Richard Friese (1854–1918).\n\nPlundered by Russian forces in World War I, the hunting lodge and grounds upon Wilhelm's resignation in 1918 were administrated by the Free State of Prussia; Minister-President Otto Braun was a regular guest. Later on, the estates were seized by Nazi minister Hermann Göring, whose \"Reichsjägerhof Rominten\" was built nearby in 1936. It also served as Göring's headquarters during the German Operation Barbarossa in 1941.\n\nThe Allied Potsdam Agreement after World War II divided the region between the re-established Polish Republic and the Soviet Union. The German history of the region is documented at the East Prussian Regional Museum in Lüneburg and at the German Hunting and Fishing Museum in Munich. In recent years, hunting tourism has again become popular.\n"}
{"id": "9563283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9563283", "title": "Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forests", "text": "Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forests\n\nThe Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forests is an ecoregion of the Tropical and subtropical coniferous forests biome, in Southern Mexico. \n\nIt occupies the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca, a mountain range which lies mostly within the state of Oaxaca, and extends north into Puebla and Veracruz states. It is one of a chain of pine-oak forest ecoregions extending along the American Cordillera from Oregon and California in the north to Nicaragua in the south.\nThe ecoregion covers an area of , lying above elevation. The Sierra Madre de Oaxaca runs northeast-southwest, extending from Pico de Orizaba in the northeast to extends to the Isthmus of Tehuantepec in the southeast. Peaks in the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca average meters in elevation, with some peaks exceeding . The range intercepts humid air moving west from the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nThe Gulf Coastal Plain lies to the east, and a series of river valleys separate the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca from the Sierra Madre del Sur to the southwest and the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt to the northwest. The ecoregion is bounded on the east by the humid Oaxacan montane forests, which lie below elevation. To the east, the xeric Tehuacan Valley matorral occupies the Tehuacan valley to the northwest, the Jalisco dry forests occupy the upper basin of the Santo Domingo River, which lies in the rain shadow of the Sierra, and the Southern Pacific dry forests lie to the south along the Pacific coast, extending into the upper basin of the Tehuantepec River and the Valley of Oaxaca. The dry forests separate the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forests from the Sierra Madre del Sur pine-oak forests to the southwest.\n\nThe associated vegetation of the pine-oak forests varies with elevation and exposure. Besides the pines (\"Pinus\" spp.) and oaks (\"Quercus\" spp.) trees, the forests can have a great diversity of bromeliads, orchids, ferns.\nThe forests of the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca are one of the last remaining habitats with Jaguar and Puma in Mexico.\n\nThe Pine-Oak forests of the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca have been inhabited for a millennia by indigenous cultures. The primary cultures are of the Mazatec, Zapotec, Mixe, Cuicatec, and Chinantec peoples.\nSome of the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca pine-oak forest habitats/areas are among the better conserved forests in Mexico. However, only a small fraction its virgin/old growth forests are protected by the Federal government, within Benito Juárez National Park (\"Parque Nacional Benito Juarez\") located north of Oaxaca city.\n\nMost conservation in the Sierra Madre de Oaxaca is controlled by indigenous communities. For example, Santiago Comaltepec's vast expanse of cloud forests is considered some of the best conserved cloud forests in the world. Many communities, notably Ixtlán de Juárez and the Pueblo Mancomunados, among others, strive to conserve their forest through projects including sustainable forestry and selective logging, ecotourism, education projects, and the prohibition of private property within their communities (thus hampering unsustainable development and industry by foreign or outside agents).\n\nThe forests are under threat by foreign investment, and by mining and logging commissions to foreign companies from the Oaxaca state government.\n\n"}
{"id": "727242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727242", "title": "Sodium–sulfur battery", "text": "Sodium–sulfur battery\n\nA sodium–sulfur battery is a type of molten-salt battery constructed from liquid sodium (Na) and sulfur (S). This type of battery has a high energy density, high efficiency of charge/discharge \nand long cycle life, and is fabricated from inexpensive materials. The operating temperatures of 300 to 350 °C and the highly corrosive nature of the sodium polysulfides, primarily make them suitable for stationary energy storage applications. The cell becomes more economical with increasing size.\n\nTypical batteries have a solid electrolyte membrane between the anode and cathode, compared with liquid-metal batteries where the anode, the cathode and the membrane are liquids.\n\nThe cell is usually made in a cylindrical configuration. The entire cell is enclosed by a steel casing that is protected, usually by chromium and molybdenum, from corrosion on the inside. This outside container serves as the positive electrode, while the liquid sodium serves as the negative electrode. The container is sealed at the top with an airtight alumina lid. An essential part of the cell is the presence of a BASE (beta-alumina solid electrolyte) membrane, which selectively conducts Na. In commercial applications the cells are arranged in blocks for better heat conservation and are encased in a vacuum-insulated box.\n\nDuring the discharge phase, molten elemental sodium at the core serves as the anode, meaning that the Na donates electrons to the external circuit. The sodium is separated by a beta-alumina solid electrolyte (BASE) cylinder from the container of molten sulfur, which is fabricated from an inert metal serving as the cathode. The sulfur is absorbed in a carbon sponge. BASE is a good conductor of sodium ions, but a poor conductor of electrons, and thus avoids self-discharge. When sodium gives off an electron, the Na ion migrates to the sulfur container. The electron drives an electric current through the molten sodium to the contact, through the electrical load and back to the sulfur container. Here, another electron reacts with sulfur to form S, sodium polysulfide. The discharge process can be represented as follows:\n\nAs the cell discharges, the sodium level drops. During the charging phase the reverse process takes place. Once running, the heat produced by charging and discharging cycles is sufficient to maintain operating temperatures and usually no external source is required.\n\nPure sodium presents a hazard, because it spontaneously burns in contact with air and moisture, thus the system must be protected from water and oxidizing atmospheres.\n\nOn September 21, 2011, NGK-manufactured NaS batteries for storing electricity installed at the Tsukuba, Japan, plant caught fire. Following the incident, NGK temporarily suspended production of NaS batteries.\n\nFord Motor Company pioneered the battery in the 1960s to power early-model electric cars.\n\n, a lower temperature, solid electrode version was under development in Utah by Ceramatec. They use a NASICON membrane to allow operation at 90 °C with all components remaining solid.\n\nIn 2014 researchers identified a liquid sodium-cesium alloy that operates at 150 °C and produces 420 milliampere-hours per gram. The material fully coated (\"wetted\") the electrolyte. After 100 charge/discharge cycles, a test battery maintained about 97% of its initial storage capacity. The lower operating temperature allowed the use of a less-expensive polymer external casing instead of steel, offsetting some of the increased cost associated with using cesium.\n\nThe NaS battery was one of four battery types selected as candidates for intensive research by MITI as part of the \"Moonlight Project\" in 1980. This project sought to develop a durable utility power storage device meeting the criteria shown below in a 10-year project. \nThe other three were improved lead–acid, redox flow (vanadium type), and zinc-bromide batteries.\n\nA consortium formed by TEPCO (Tokyo Electric Power Co.) and NGK (NGK Insulators Ltd.) declared their interest in researching the NaS battery in 1983, and became the primary drivers behind the development of this type ever since. TEPCO chose the NaS battery because all its component elements (sodium, sulfur and ceramics) are abundant in Japan. The first large-scale field testing took place at TEPCO's Tsunashima substation between 1993 and 1996, using 3 x 2 MW, 6.6 kV battery banks. Based on the findings from this trial, improved battery modules were developed and were made commercially available in 2000. The commercial NaS battery bank offers:\n\nA demonstration project used NaS battery at Japan Wind Development Co.’s Miura Wind Park in Japan.\n\nJapan Wind Development opened a 51 MW wind farm that incorporates a 34 MW sodium sulfur battery system at Futamata in Aomori Prefecture in May 2008.\n\nAs of 2007, 165 MW of capacity were installed in Japan. NGK announced in 2008 a plan to expand its NaS factory output from 90 MW a year to 150 MW a year.\n\nIn 2010 Xcel Energy announced that it would test a wind farm energy storage battery based on twenty 50 kW sodium–sulfur batteries. The 80 tonne, 2 semi-trailer sized battery is expected to have 7.2 MW·h of capacity at a charge and discharge rate of 1 MW.\n\nIn March 2011, Sumitomo Electric Industries and Kyoto University announced that they had developed a low temperature molten sodium ion battery that can output power at under 100 °C. The batteries have double the energy density of Li-ion and considerably lower cost. Sumitomo Electric Industry CEO Masayoshi Matsumoto indicated that the company planned to begin production in 2015. Initial applications are envisaged to be buildings and buses.\n\nCorrosion of the insulators was found to be a problem in the harsh chemical environment as they gradually became conductive and the self-discharge rate increased. Dendritic-sodium growth can also be a problem.\n\nNaS batteries can be deployed to support the electric grid, or for stand-alone renewable power applications. In 2010, Presidio, Texas built the world's largest sodium–sulfur battery, which can provide 4 MW of power for up to eight hours when the city's lone line to the Texas power grid goes down. Under some market conditions, NaS batteries provide value via energy arbitrage (charging battery when electricity is abundant/cheap, and discharging into the grid when electricity is more valuable) and voltage regulation. NaS batteries are a possible energy storage technology to support renewable energy generation, specifically wind farms and solar generation plants. In the case of a wind farm, the battery would store energy during times of high wind but low power demand. This stored energy could then be discharged from the batteries during peak load periods. In addition to this power shifting, sodium sulfur batteries could be used to assist in stabilizing the power output of the wind farm during wind fluctuations. These types of batteries present an option for energy storage in locations where other storage options are not feasible. For example, pumped-storage hydroelectricity facilities require significant space and water resources, while compressed air energy storage (CAES) requires some type of geologic feature such as a salt cave.\n\nBecause of its high energy density, the NaS battery has been proposed for space applications. Sodium sulfur cells can be made space-qualified: in fact a test sodium sulfur cell flew on the Space Shuttle. The NaS flight experiment demonstrated a battery with a specific energy of 150 W·h/kg (3 x nickel–hydrogen battery energy density), operating at 350 °C. It was launched on the STS-87 mission in November 1997, and demonstrated 10 days of experimental operation.\n\nThe first large-scale use of sodium–sulfur batteries was in the Ford \"Ecostar\" demonstration vehicle, an electric vehicle prototype in 1991. The high operating temperature of sodium sulfur batteries presented difficulties for electric vehicle use, however. The Ecostar never went into production.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1425862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1425862", "title": "Tellurion", "text": "Tellurion\n\nA tellurion (also spelled \"tellurian\", \"tellurium\", and yet another name is \"loxocosm\"), is a clock, typically of French or Swiss origin, surmounted by a mechanism that depicts how day, night, and the seasons are caused by the rotation and orientation of Earth on its axis and its orbit around the Sun. The clock normally also displays the age of the Moon and the four-year (perpetual) calendar.\n\nIt is related to the orrery, which illustrates the relative positions and motions of the planets and moons in the solar system in a heliocentric model.\n\nThe word tellurion derives from the Latin \"tellus\", meaning \"earth\".\n"}
{"id": "24013517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24013517", "title": "Thomas Adams (chewing gum maker)", "text": "Thomas Adams (chewing gum maker)\n\nThomas Adams (May 4, 1818 – February 7, 1905) was a 19th-century American scientist and inventor who is regarded as a founder of the chewing gum industry. He eventually joined with well-known chewing gum maker William Wrigley, Jr.\n\nAdams conceived the idea while working as a secretary to former Mexican leader Antonio López de Santa Anna. Santa Anna chewed a natural gum called chicle. Adams first tried to formulate the gum into a rubber suitable for tires. When that didn't work he made the chicle into a chewing gum called Chiclets, which is still produced today.\n"}
{"id": "37968822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37968822", "title": "Tiasa", "text": "Tiasa\n\nIn Greek mythology, Tiasa (Τίασα) was a Naiad nymph of a river near Amyclae, Sparta, and a daughter of the river god Eurotas. By the river Tiasa was situated a temple of Cleta and Phaenna, the two Charites recognized in Sparta, which was purported to have been founded by Lacedaemon.\n"}
{"id": "90337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90337", "title": "Tonantzin", "text": "Tonantzin\n\nIn classical Aztec mythology and among present-day Nahuas, Tonantzin () is the title of an Aztec mother goddess.\n\nSuch Goddesses as \"Mother Earth\", the \"Goddess of Sustenance\", \"Honored Grandmother\", \"Snake\", \"Bringer of Maize\" and \"Mother of Corn\" can all be called Tonantzin, as it is an honorific title comparable to \"Our Lady\" or \"Our Great Mother\". Other indigenous (Nahuatl) names include \"Chicōmexōchitl\" [] (literally \"Seven Flower\") and \"Chālchiuhcihuātl\" [] (literally \"Emerald/Jade Woman\"). A \"Tonāntzin\" was honored during the movable feast of \"Xōchilhuitl\" []. Some have claimed that upon the apparition of Our Lady of Guadalupe in the hill of Tepeyac where Tonantzin's temple had been destroyed by the Spanish priests, the natives recognized Our Lady of Guadalupe as Tonantzin Coatlaxopeuh (Meaning \"Our Lady\" who emerges from the region of light like the Eagle from fire).\n\nMexico City's 17th-century Basilica of Guadalupe—built in honor of the Blessed Virgin and perhaps Mexico's most important religious building—was constructed at the base of the hill of Tepeyac, believed to be a site used for pre-Columbian worship of Tonantzin. It has been asserted that the word \"Guadalupe\" in this appellation may derive from Coatlaxopeuh, meaning “the one who crushes the serpent”, and perhaps referring to Quetzalcoatl.\n\nTonantzin is sometimes used as a female given name; Native Californian actress Tonantzin Carmelo is an example. Tona, Tonzi, Toni, and Nantzin are possible nicknames.\n\nIn the comic series Love and Rockets by Gilbert Hernandez and Jaime Hernandez, Tonantzin is the name of a central character in Gilbert's world of Palomar. The character is often linked to the Aztec Goddess. \n\n\nReadings in classic Nahuatl http://pages.ucsd.edu/~dkjordan/nahuatl/nican/NicanMopohua.html"}
{"id": "1498658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1498658", "title": "Tonian", "text": "Tonian\n\nThe Tonian (from Greek τόνος \"(tónos)\", meaning \"stretch\") is the first geologic period of the Neoproterozoic Era. It lasted from Mya to Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined by the ICS based on radiometric chronometry. The Tonian is preceded by the Stenian Period of the Mesoproterozoic era and followed by the Cryogenian.\n\nRifting leading to the breakup of supercontinent Rodinia, which had formed in the mid-Stenian, occurred during this period, starting from 900 to 850 Mya.\n\nThe first large evolutionary radiation of acritarchs occurred during the Tonian.\n\nThe first putative metazoans (animal) fossils dated to the late Tonian (c. 800 Mya). A notable example of this is the \"Otavia antiqua\", which has been described as a sponge by its discoverers and numerous other scholars. This dating is consistent with molecular data recovered through genetic studies on modern metazoan species; more recent studies have concluded that the base of the animal phylogenetic tree is in the Tonian.\n\n\n"}
