{"id": "8824536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8824536", "title": "Administration (probate law)", "text": "Administration (probate law)\n\nIn common-law jurisdictions, administration of an estate on death arises if the deceased is legally intestate, meaning they did not leave a will, or some assets are not disposed of by their will.\n\nWhere a person dies leaving a will appointing an executor, and that executor validly disposes of the property of the deceased within England and Wales, then the estate will go to probate. However, if no will is left, or the will is invalid or incomplete in some way, then administrators must be appointed. They perform a similar role to the executor of a will but, where there are no instructions in a will, the administrators must distribute the estate of the deceased according to the rules laid down by statute and the common trust.\n\nCertain property falls outside the estate for administration purposes, the most common example probably being houses jointly owned that pass by survivorship on the first death of a couple into the sole name of the survivor. Other examples include discretionary death benefits from pension funds, accounts with certain financial institutions subject to a nomination and the proceeds of life insurance policies which have been written into trust. Trust property will also frequently fall outside the estate but this will depend on the terms of the trust.\n\nUpon the death of a person intestate, or of one who left a will without appointing executors, or when the executors appointed by the will cannot or will not act, the Probate Division of the High Court of Justice or the local District Probate Registry will appoint an administrator who performs similar duties to an executor. The court does this by granting letters of administration to the person so entitled, who must hire a lawyer to get this process started. Grants of administration may be either general (where the deceased has died intestate) or limited. The order in which the court will make general grants of letters follows the sequence:\n\nUnder the rules for distribution of estates without a will (the Intestacy Rules), where a child under 18 would inherit or a life interest would arise, the Court or District Probate Registry would normally appoint a minimum of two administrators. On some estates, even under an intestate, it is not clear who are the next-of-kin, and probate research may be required to find the entitled beneficiaries.\n\nAn administrator (sometimes known as the administratrix, if female) acts as the personal representative of the deceased in relation to land and other property in the UK. Consequently, when the estate under administration consists wholly or mainly of land, the court will grant administration to the heir to the exclusion of the next of kin. In the absence of any heir or next of kin, the Crown has the right to property (other than land) as \"bona vacantia\", and to the land by virtue of the historic land rights of the Crown (and the Duchy of Cornwall and Duchy of Lancaster in their respective areas). If a creditor claims and obtains a Grant of Administration, the court compels him or her to enter into a bond with two sureties that he or she will not prefer his or her own debt to those of other creditors.\n\nThe more important cases of grants of special letters of administration include the following:\n\nIn the first case the principle of \"administration cum testamento\" is followed, in the second that of general grants in the selection of the person to whom letters are granted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5106007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5106007", "title": "Agonism", "text": "Agonism\n\nAgonism (from Greek ἀγών \"agon\", \"struggle\") is a political theory that emphasizes the potentially positive aspects of certain (but not all) forms of political conflict. It accepts a permanent place for such conflict, but seeks to show how people might accept and channel this positively. For this reason, agonists are especially concerned with debates about democracy. The tradition is also referred to as agonistic pluralism.\n\nAgonism is opposed to a strand in the Marxist conception of politics known as \"materialism\". Marx would have agreed with the agonists that society had always been full of conflict, when he wrote: \"The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\". He also thought that the causes of conflict were inescapable features of present—i.e., capitalist—society. But, in his view, history would develop in such a way as to eventually destroy capitalism, and replace it with a harmonious society—which was his conception of communism. Especially during the 1960s and 1970s, many people, academics included, subscribed to a roughly Marxist analysis. Since then, some of those people have come to the view that the \"materialist conception of history\" does not give sufficient reason for hope about a harmonious society to come. Chantal Mouffe and Ernesto Laclau are amongst those who have come to agonism from a background in Marxism and the social movements of the middle part of the last century.\n\nChantal Mouffe says, \"I use the concept of agonistic pluralism to present a new way to think about democracy that is different from the traditional liberal conception of democracy as a negotiation among interests and is also different from the model that is currently being developed by people like Jürgen Habermas and John Rawls. While they have many differences, Rawls and Habermas have in common the idea that the aim of the democratic society is the creation of a consensus, and that consensus is possible if people are only able to leave aside their particular interests and think as rational beings. However, while we desire an end to conflict, if we want people to be free we must always allow for the possibility that conflict may appear and to provide an arena where differences can be confronted. The democratic process should supply that arena.\"\n\nAgonism is not simply the undifferentiated celebration of antagonism:\nBonnie Honig, an advocate of agonism, writes: \"to affirm the perpetuity of the contest is not to celebrate a world without points of stabilisation; it is to affirm the reality of perpetual contest, even within an ordered setting, and to identify the affirmative dimension of contestation\".\n\nThe work of Theodor Adorno and Michel Foucault have also invoked conceptions of agonism and the agon in a more critical sense beyond that of political counter-hegemony. Although this usage of Agonism has been largely ignored it has been explored at some length by Claudio Colaguori in \"Agon Culture: Competition, Conflict and the Problem of Domination\". For Colaguori, \"the agon is literally the arena of competition, the scene of contest, and the locus of adversarial conflict. The philosophy of agonism affirms the idea that transcendence, truth, and growth are generated from the outcome of the contest...the concept of agonism is often understood in an affirmative sense as the generative principle of economy, society and even natural ecology and personal growth... The ambivalent character of agonism is that it is often seen as a mode of transcendence, while its instrumental relation to the mode of destruction is rarely acknowledged\". Agonism forms part of the instituted social order where society \"produces and reproduces itself precisely from the interconnection of the antagonistic interests of its members\" (Adorno, 1974).\n\nFor Adorno, agonism is also about the \"theodicy of conflict\" where opponents \"want to annihilate one another... to enter the agon, each the mortal enemy of each\" (Minima Moralia). Adorno also sees agonism as the underlying principle in Hegel's dialectic of history where \"dialectics (growth through conflict) is the ontology of the wrong state of things. The right state of things would be free of it: neither a system nor a contradiction\" (Negative Dialectics). Colaguori reconstructs the concept of the agon to invoke this critical, destructive aspect as a way of extending Adorno's critique of modern domination and identify how the normalization and naturalization of conflict is used as an ideology to justify various forms of domination and subjugation. The agonistic ideology that has been appropriated by popular culture for example makes use of agonistic themes to celebrate competition as the wellspring of life in such a way as to normalize \"a military definition of reality\" (C. W. Mills).\n\nThe critical conception of agonism developed by Adorno and Foucault emphasizes how aspects of competition can be utilized to reinforce the project of domination that is evident in the geopolitics of modernity. Colaguori suggests that a critical conception of agonism can be applied to the study of \"numerous forms of social conflict in gender, class and race relations where the competitive mode of interaction prevails in the formation of social hierarchies based on competition as a form of exclusion\". Colaguori further states that, \"after 100 years of technological progress, human societies are trapped in a perpetual dynamic of conflict and crisis, with modernization at a standstill. While this dialectic of development and destruction has been analysed from political and economic perspectives, Agon Culture offers an analysis of the human condition through an examination of the way in which the cultural ideology of competition operates as a mode of rationality that underpins the order of domination.\"\n\nThe science fiction novel \"Lady of Mazes\" by Karl Schroeder depicts a post-human future where \"agonistics\" is the ruling principle of the solar system. The story explains agonistics as \"You can compete, and you can win, but you can never win once-and-for-all\". A character gives two examples of agonism: a presidency with term limits, and laws aimed at preventing corporate monopolies.\n"}
{"id": "2885560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2885560", "title": "Allocatur", "text": "Allocatur\n\nIn law, allocatur (from med. Lat. \"allocatur\", \"it is allowed\") refers to the allowance of a writ or other pleading. It may also designate a certificate given by a taxing master, at the termination of an action, for the allowance of costs.\n\nIn Pennsylvania courts, the term is still commonly used to denote permission for an appeal to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, even though the procedure for obtaining discretionary review in the court is now called a petition for allowance of appeal. \"See\" Pennsylvania Rule of Appellate Procedure 1112. In most other American courts, the term certiorari is used.\n"}
{"id": "45568963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45568963", "title": "B v Attorney General", "text": "B v Attorney General\n\nB v Attorney General [2003] UKPC 61 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding negligence cases against the government.\n\nAfter his wife died, B was left to raise his 2 daughters (referred to as D1 and D2) on his own. At the time, D1 was aged 7, and D2 5.\n\nIn July 1988, without any warning, the police informed him that social workers had just collected his daughters from school, and put into their protection due to allegations that he had sexually molested both his daughters, and proceeded to interview him.\n\nHowever, as the police found no evidence that he had abused his daughters, no criminal charges were ever laid.\n\nB then arranged for his daughters to move back into his house under the care of one of his employees, until his parents from England arrived to care for them.\n\nThe subsequent social worker and psychologists investigations, were both later held by the court to be negligently done.\n\nFor example, the doctors examination did not reveal any evidence of sexual abuse, the doctor also noted that the girls \"told lies\", and daughter D2 said the abuse happened in the attic of their house, when it had no attic, D2 said that both had been sexually abused when the other daughter D1 denied any such abuse, and 2 weeks into their care, the D2 admitted to a family friend that she had lied about the abuse happening.\n\nDespite all this contradicting evidence, the daughters were still not allowed back with their father until 9 months later, in April 1989, and this only changed after a protracted 9 week family court hearing.\n\nB then sued the government for $50,000 for exemplary damages, and $500,000 in damages on behalf of his daughters.\n\nThe Court of Appeal dismissed his claim, and he appealed.\n\nThe Privy Council ruled that B had no arguable claim. However, the daughters claim was still arguable, and their claim was remitted back to the court for arguing.\n"}
{"id": "2095556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095556", "title": "Bastard (law of England and Wales)", "text": "Bastard (law of England and Wales)\n\nA bastard (also historically called whoreson, although both of these terms have largely dropped from common usage) in the law of England and Wales is an illegitimate child, that is, one whose parents were not married at the time of his or her birth. Unlike in many other systems of law, there was previously no possibility of \"post factum\" legitimisation of a bastard. This situation was changed in 1926.\n\nThe word bastard is from the Old French \"bastard,\" which in turn was from medieval Latin \"bastardus.\" In the modern French bâtard, the circumflex (â) merely represents the loss of the 's' over time. According to some sources, \"bastardus\" may have come from the word \"bastum,\" which means packsaddle, the connection possibly being the idea that a bastard might be the child of a passing traveller (who would have a packsaddle). In support of this is the Old French phrase \"fils de bast\" loosely meaning \"child of the saddle,\" which had a similar meaning. A more defined possibility is that such a traveller was a member of the \"corps de bast\", referring to the division of an army who arrived in town with their packsaddles the night before the troops, and left the day after, so that they may deal with all of the provisions of an army, and even do advanced scouting. This meant that for two days, they had unfettered access to all of the women in town, and were therefore the ones most likely to be the cause of the town's illegitimate offspring. (This explanation is apocryphal, but no attempt at dispute seems to have been proffered.)\n\nAnother suggestion is that a group of travelling muleteers arrived, unloaded their mules, and took their packsaddles indoors and used them as bedding to sleep on.\n\nBastardy was not a status, like villeinage, but the fact of being a bastard had a number of legal effects on an individual. \nOne exception to the general principle that a bastard could not inherit occurred when the eldest son (who would otherwise be heir) was born a bastard but the second son was born after the parents were married.\n\nThe Provisions of Merton 1235 (20 Hen. 3 c. IX), otherwise known as the Special Bastardy Act 1235, provided that except in the case of real actions the fact of bastardy could be proved by trial by jury, rather than necessitating a bishop's certificate.\n\nPost-hoc legitimisation was introduced under the Legitimacy Act 1926 (16 & 17 Geo. 5 c. 60) and the Family Law Reform Act 1969 (c. 46) allowed a bastard to inherit on the intestacy of his parents.\n\nIn Medieval Wales, prior to its conquest by and incorporation in England, a \"bastard\" was defined solely as a child not acknowledged by his father. All children acknowledged by a father, whether born in or out of wedlock, had equal legal rights including the right to share in the father's inheritance. This legal difference between Wales and England is often referred to in the well-known \"Brother Cadfael\" series of Medieval detective mysteries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10048012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10048012", "title": "Bonus share", "text": "Bonus share\n\nBonus shares are shares distributed by a company to its current shareholders as fully paid shares free of charge( The Companies' Act,2013 states that bonus issue must be fully paid )\n\nAn issue of bonus shares is referred to as a bonus share issue or bonus issue. \n\nA bonus issue is usually based upon the number of shares that shareholders already own. (For example, the bonus issue may be \"\"n\" shares for each \"x\" shares held\"; but with fractions of a share not permitted.) While the issue of bonus shares increases the total number of shares issued and owned, it does not change the value of the company. Although the total number of issued shares increases, the ratio of number of shares held by each shareholder remains constant. In this sense, a bonus issue is similar to a stock split.\n\nWhenever a company announces a bonus issue, it also announces a book closure date which is a date on which the company will ideally temporarily close its books for fresh transfers of stock.it is depends on the stakeholder performance.\n\nDepending upon the constitutional documents of the company, only certain classes of shares may be entitled to bonus issues, or may be entitled to bonus issues in preference to other classes. Bonus shares are distributed in a fixed ratio to the shareholders.\n\nSometimes a company will change the number of shares in issue by capitalizing its reserve. In other words, it can convert the right of the shareholders because each individual will hold the same proportion of the outstanding shares as before.\n\nBecause a bonus issue does not represent an economic event – no wealth changes hands. The current shareholders simply receive new shares, for free, and in proportion to their previous share in the company. Therefore, a bonus share issue is very similar to a stock split. The only practical difference is that a bonus issue creates a change in the structure of the company's shareholders' equity (in accounting). Another difference between a bonus issue and a stock split is that while a stock split usually also splits the company's authorized share capital, the distribution of bonus shares only changes its issued share capital (or even only its outstanding shares).\n\nA bonus share issue is most commonly not taxed as a dividend, even if it is charged to retained earnings.\n\nHowever, there may be capital gains or profit on sale implications on the subsequent sale of these shares. In general, the cost base of the bonus shares is usually zero, but if the bonus issue is taxable as a dividend, then the cost base is generally the taxed dividend amount, plus any calls on partly paid bonus shares. The acquisition date is the date of issue.\n"}
{"id": "33679231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33679231", "title": "Bulgarian constitutional referendum, 1971", "text": "Bulgarian constitutional referendum, 1971\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Bulgaria on 16 May 1971. Voters were asked whether they approved of a new constitution (known as the Zhivkov Constitution), whose first article noted the \"leading role\" of the Communist Party. The result was reportedly 99.7% in favour, with a voter turnout of 99.7%.\n"}
{"id": "7290362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7290362", "title": "California Senate Bill 420", "text": "California Senate Bill 420\n\nCalifornia Senate Bill 420 (colloquially known as the Medical Marijuana Program Act) was a bill introduced by John Vasconcellos of the California State Senate, and subsequently passed by the California State Legislature and signed by Governor Gray Davis in 2003 \"pursuant to the powers reserved to the State of California and its people under the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\" It clarified the scope and application of California Proposition 215, also known as the Compassionate Use Act of 1996, and established the California medical marijuana program. The bill's title is notable because \"420\" is a common phrase used in cannabis culture.\n\nThe bill specifically:\n\n\nIn enacting the bill it was the intent of the legislature to:\n\n\nThe bill reflects a compromise between patients' advocates and law enforcement. It also required counties to implement a voluntary patient identification card system and other provisions to protect patients and their caregivers from arrest. The guidelines were hotly disputed by California NORML and other patients' advocates. Patient advocates had pushed for more liberal guidelines, such as those adopted by Sonoma County, which allow up to 30 plants in a growing area plus 3 pounds of marijuana. The final guidelines were decided in a last-minute legislative deal by Attorney General Lockyer and Sen. Vasconcellos in order to get the bill passed.\n\nIn recognition of the fact that the guidelines are inadequate for many very ill patients, SB 420 allows patients to be exempted from them if they obtain a physician's statement that they need more. In deference to local autonomy, SB 420 also allows counties and cities to establish higher - but not lower - guidelines if they so choose. As a result, the new law will not overturn liberal guidelines that are now in effect in Sonoma and elsewhere. However, it should force more restrictive counties, such as San Bernardino and Fresno, which have heretofore had \"zero tolerance\" policies, to honor the new statewide minimum standard. Many counties have increased the limits of possession and cultivation since the passage of the law in 2003. It also specifically allowed cannabis cooperatives.\n\nThe Medical Marijuana Identification Card Program (also referred to as MMIP, or MMIC) is administered by county health departments. There are registration fees to cover the costs of the program, with a 50% discount for Medi-Cal patients. Identification cards generally have an expiration date of one year after the date of application, regardless if the physician's recommendation expires before that date. The California Department of Public Health maintains a 24-hour telephone hotline and an online website by which law enforcement and collectives/cooperatives can verify the validity of the card(s).\n\nThe system is designed with safeguards to protect patient privacy like the former San Francisco and Oakland ID card system. Police may identify whether persons are medical marijuana patients by only a unique identification number appearing on the card. Although some patient advocates have expressed qualms about the privacy of the new identification system, California NORML recommends that patients register to protect themselves from arrest. Persons designated as \"primary caregivers\" are also eligible for ID cards. Each patient may designate only one caregiver under the voluntary program.\n\nAbuse was found in Mendocino County California, when then Sheriff Craver required patients to pick up their cards at his sheriffs station. This was where convicted rapists and drug offenders had to get their criminal registration cards. Here, then, the marijuana patients were subjected to abuse by the local law enforcement, as the state Department of Health was not involved with card distribution at that time. Patients, who had been assured that no centralized database would ever be created with their personal information, were themselves witness to that part of SB 420's irregularity.\n\nIn a quirky provision, SB 420 forbids caregivers from having more than one patient unless all of them reside in the same \"city or county\" as the caregiver. This means that no one may be a caregiver for both a spouse and a parent if they happen to reside in different counties. California NORML attorneys believe that this is an unconstitutional restriction on Prop 215 and intends to challenge it in court.\n\nIn 2006, San Diego County was sued for refusing to implement an ID card system as required under SB 420. In response, San Diego County filed a lawsuit against the State of California to overturn Prop. 215 and SB 420. San Diego Superior Court Judge, William R. Nevitt Jr. struck down San Diego's claim in the court's December 6, 2006 ruling. San Diego County filed an appeal in the case. The appeal was on August 1, 2008, and was thrown out again on the basis that the counties did not have the authority to make a case against the state. The counties do, however, have the right to make an appeal about the statutes in SB 420 that deal with the issuing of identification cards, as this task is placed upon the counties and affects their taxes. San Diego County along with San Bernardino County appealed to the United States Supreme Court. On May 18, 2009 that appeal was denied.\n\nCurrently, there are only two counties that submit information anonymously to the state, Santa Cruz and San Francisco. All the other counties submit patient information to the state patient database.\n\nIn other provisions, SB 420:\n\nConcerning limits on possession created by the bill, the California Supreme Court decision in \"People v. Kelly\" decided multiple issues. First, it reiterated that \"unlike [Proposition 215], which did not immunize medical marijuana users from arrest but instead provided a limited 'immunity' defense to prosecution under state law for cultivation or possession of marijuana ... the [Medical Marijuana Program]'s identification card system is designed to protect against unnecessary arrest.\" Secondly, it agreed with both Kelly and the California Attorney General that the limits were an \"unconstitutionally amendatory insofar as it limits an in-court CUA defense\".\n\nHowever, the section concerning limits on possession \"should remain an enforceable part of the MMP, applicable to the extent possible — including to those persons who voluntarily participate in the program by registering and obtaining identification cards that provide protection against arrest\" because it provided more rights, namely the immunity against arrest. A qualified patient or primary caregiver that participates in the voluntary MMIC program also maintains his or her separate rights under California Health and Safety Code Section 11362.5, which are not included in the legislature-driven amendments seven years later.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, the Supreme Court decided not to hear arguments in \"City of Garden Grove v. Superior Court of Orange County\", leaving a lower court ruling standing which requires local police officers to enforce state law, not federal law. The case stems from a traffic stop of Felix Kha, who had 8.1 grams of medical marijuana in a container, which the police officers confiscated. The ruling requires police officers to return the seized medicine.\n\nBut it must be remembered it is not the job of the local police to enforce the federal drug laws as such.\n\nConcerning the scope of the legal defense created by the bill, the California Fourth Appellate District clarified the law in regards to the Medical Marijuana Program Act (MMPA), and was upheld by the California Supreme Court. In the People v. Jovan Jackson, (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1371, the court held that the MMPA does not require active participation by all members of a collective in the cultivation process and membership may be limited to financial support by way of marijuana purchases. The court stated the three elements of the MMPA are that the collective 1. Are qualified patients or primary caregivers; and, 2. Collectively associate to cultivate marijuana; and, 3. The collective must be a nonprofit enterprise. In addition, the court provided factors for a jury to consider as to whether a medical marijuana collective is a non-profit, specifically:\n\nThe size of the collective's membership; the volume of purchases from the collective; the members participation in the operation and governance of the collective; the testimony of the operator[s] of the collective; its formal establishment as a nonprofit organization; the presence or absence of any financial records; the presence or absence of processes by which the collective is accountable to its members; the volume of business it conducts; any other evidence of profit or loss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18060716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18060716", "title": "Chacón Navas v Eurest Colectividades SA", "text": "Chacón Navas v Eurest Colectividades SA\n\nChacón Navas v Eurest Colectividades SA (2006) C-13/05 is an EU labour law case that sets forth a uniform definition of disability in the European Union. Both the Treaty of Amsterdam and the EU Framework Directive on Employment left open the definition of disability, which allowed the Court to adopt its own definition.\n\nThe judgment has been criticised by academics as potentially being too close to a medical model of disability (although it does not require medical diagnosis of a disability), rather than the social model of disability.\n\nMs Navas, an employee of a catering company, was sick and waiting for an operation. The ECJ decision does not contain any detail about what illness prevented her from working for eight months.\n\nAfter eight months her employers wrote to her purporting to end her employment. In the letter they admitted that the termination was 'unlawful' (Spanish industrial law allows unlawful termination with financial compensation). She claimed that the termination was instead 'void' and sought reinstatement according to anti-discrimination provisions. She made her claim to the Spanish Courts under the disability provisions of Spanish law, which were in turn based on the EU Framework Equality Directive 2000/78/EC.\n\nThe domestic Spanish labour courts agreed with Ms Navas' employers that illness did not amount to 'disability', which was the subject of the EU directive and that Spanish law allowed Eurest to fire Ms Navas based on their cost benefit analysis (i.e. financial compensation versus continuing to employ her). This interpretation allows employers to discriminate against sick people, as opposed to people with disability.\n\nAdvocate General Ad Geelhoed issued an opinion based on a medical model of disability. He also stated that an ‘autonomous and uniform’ Community meaning should be given to \"disability\". He said disability is tied to the concept of a permanent limitation on activities, and while acknowledging that disability could arise from sickness, sickness was a separate concept that did not mean disability. He found that sickness by itself is not enough to trigger protection under the Directive. This reasoning was adopted by the European Court of Justice (ECJ).\n\nThe ECJ started with Article 136 TEC, which states that the Community exists with \"a view to lasting high employment and the combating of exclusion.\" It referred to the mention of disability in the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers, para 26.\n\nIn the absence of a definition in the Directive, the ECJ used the medical model of disability, which focuses on a person's impairment. The judgement has also been criticised for failing to refer to the social model of the disability which had been referred to in European Commission documents underpinning the Directive. One reason for the absence of the judges' opinion of the applicability of the social model is that the ECJ does not publish dissenting views of judges on its bench, but instead must issue a collegiate (i.e. joint) judgment. The ECJ found that a worker who is dismissed only on grounds of sickness is not protected by the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability. The judgement has been generally regarded as setting the scene for further judgements relating to the definition of disability, as there is no discussion of Ms Navas' illness having been anything more than a 'sickness' (e.g. not a limitation that amounted to 'disability').\n\nThe Framework Directive on Employment did not define 'disability', which given the importance of the Directive and the well known laws in other countries (such as the US's Americans with Disabilities Act) was probably intentional. Some academics saw this as an opening for a wider more social definition of disability. However, on the other hand, this lack of definition left the door wide open to a Court exercising its power to narrow, not expand, the definition.\n\nThe ECJ case leaves uncertainty about what sicknesses would result in disability, such as episodic mental illness, or sicknesses that take time to become full-fledged permanent limitations.\n\nThe consequences of the case mean that the ECJ has protected employers in their actions against employees who lose capacity due to minor or temporary illnesses, in the case of Spanish law allowing them to make a cost-benefit analysis to pay compensation and rid themselves of an individual. The opposite conclusion in \"Navas\" would have meant that employers would have had to backfill the position of Ms Navas until she could return to work. The ECJ's interpretation has limited the definition of disability as well as medicalising it, which stands in contrast to EU policy makers attempts, at some levels, to introduce the social model, which is now entrenched in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.\n\nThe ECJ decision, with its inherent uncertainty, and reliance on the medical approach, may reinforce the medical model in the EU member states, and perhaps other international jurisdictions, like the US.\n\nLisa Waddington, Professor and European Disability Forum Chair in European Disability Law, Maastricht University, has suggested that the decision may have helped countries to insert a clear social model definition into the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as the EU representative withdrew their opposition to an explicit social model definition following the publication of the ECJ decision.,\n\n"}
{"id": "13243853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13243853", "title": "Collaborative governance", "text": "Collaborative governance\n\nGovernance is a broader concept than government and also includes the roles played by the community sector and the private sector in managing and planning countries, regions and cities. Collaborative Governance involves the government, community and private sectors communicating with each other and working together to achieve more than any one sector could achieve on its own. Ansell and Gash (2008) have explored the conditions required for effective collaborative governance. They say “The ultimate goal is to develop a contingency approach of collaboration that can highlight conditions under which collaborative governance will be more or less effective as an approach to policy making and public management” Collaborative governance covers both the informal and formal relationships in problem solving and decision-making. Conventional government policy processes can be embedded in wider policy processes by facilitating collaboration between the public, private and community sectors. Collaborative Governance requires three things, namely: support; leadership; and a forum. The support identifies the policy problem to be fixed. The leadership gathers the sectors into a forum. Then, the members of the forum collaborate to develop policies, solutions and answers.\n\nThere are many different forms of collaborative governance as such as Consensus Building and a Collaborative Network:\n\nOver the past two decades new collaborative approaches to governing and managing have developed in a range of fields, including: urban and regional planning; public administration and law; natural resource management; and environmental management. Collaborative governance has emerged as a response to the failures of government policy implementation and to the high cost and politicization of regulation and as an alternative to managerialism and adversarial approaches. The field of public administration has changed its focus from bureaucracy to that of collaboration in the context of the network society. Public administrators have blurred the lines between the people, the private sector and the government. Although bureaucracies still remain, public administrators have begun to recognize that more can potentially be achieved by collaboration and networking. Collaboration and partnerships are nothing new in the political realm, however the wider use of this leadership style has gained momentum in recent years. In part, this is a response to neoliberalism with its focus on the primacy of the free-market economy and the private sector.\n\nAnsell and Gash (2008) define collaborative governance as follows:\"'A governing arrangement where one or more public agencies directly engage non-state stakeholders in a collective decision-making process that is formal, consensus-oriented, and deliberative and that aims to make or implement public policy or manage public programs or assets'.\"This definition involves six criteria:: (1) the forum is initiated by public agencies; (2) participants in the forum include non-state actors; (3) participants engage in decision making and are not merely ‘‘consulted’’; (4) the forum is formally organized; (5) the forum aims to make decisions by consensus; and (6) the focus of collaboration is on public policy or public management.\n\nEmerson, Nabatchi and Balogh (2012) have developed a less normative and less restrictive definition, as follows:\"'The processes and structures of public policy decision making and management that engage people constructively across the boundaries of public agencies, levels of government, and/or the public, private and civic spheres in order to carry out a public purpose that could not otherwise be accomplished.'.\"This framework definition is a broader analytic concept and does not limit collaborative governance to state-initiated arrangements and to engagement between government and non-government sectors. For example, the definition encompasses collaboration between governments at different levels and hybrid partnerships initiated by the private or community sectors.\n\nThe intent of collaborative governance is to improve the overall practice and effectiveness of public administration. The advantages of effective collaborative governance are that it enables a better and shared understanding of complex problems involving many stakeholders and allows these stakeholders to work together and agree on solutions. It can help policy makers identify and target problems and deliver action more effectively. Stakeholders that are involved in developing a solution are more inclined to accept directions given or decisions made. It can thus serve as a way to identify policy solutions that have greater traction in the community. Additionally, it can contribute new perspectives on issues and policy solutions and thus offer new ways to implement strategies for change. For public officials who work in administration and management, collaborative governance can serve as a way of genuinely allowing a wider array of ideas and suggestions in the policy process. It may also be used to test ideas and analyze responses before implementation. For those who are not involved in formal government, it allows them to better understand the inner workings of government and carry more influence in the decision making process. For both public and private sectors, a commitment to collaboration is likely to drive organizational change and affect resource reallocation. Other advantages include combining relevant skills and capacities, as well as allowing specialization. Overall, collaborative governance can lead to mutual learning and shared experiences, while also providing direction for institutional capacity building inside and outside agencies and organizations.\n\nThe disadvantages of collaborative governance in relation to complex problems are that the process is time consuming, it may not reach agreement on solutions, and the relevant government agencies may not implement the agreed solutions. In a complex structure with many entities working together, individual roles can become unclear and confusing. Some individuals act largely in a personal capacity, while others may act on behalf of agencies or organizations. Powerful stakeholder groups may seek to manipulate the process. Structural issues also affect agendas and outcomes. Open structures with loose leadership and membership allow multiple participants to gain access to a fast expanding agenda. Achieving goals in such a wide agenda becomes more difficult as an increasing number of players struggle to resolve differences and coordinate actions. Furthermore, challenges arise for implementation when representatives are allowed to come and go with no real obligations to other collaborators. Accountability of participating members, unequal or hidden agendas, trust between members, power imbalances, and language and cultural barriers are all issues that can arise in collaborative government regimes. Critics argue that collaborative governance does not provide the institutional stability and consistency required, and therefore deters progress. The work of Ansell and Gash (2008) and Emerson, Nabatchi and Balogh (2012) seeks to understand these issues and challenges and identify the social and process conditions required for effective collaborative governance.\n\nCollaborative governance has been used to address many complex social, environmental and urban planning issues, including: flood crisis management and urban growth management in Australia; community visioning and planning in New Zealand; and public participation in the redesign of the Ground Zero site in New York.\n\nIn the UK, the USA and countries across much of Western Europe, governments have attempted to shift the focus towards various forms of co-production with other agencies and sectors and with citizens themselves in order to increase civic participation. The classic forms of hierarchical governance and representative democracy are seen as inefficient when it comes to engaging citizens and making them a part of the decision making process. Large projects and initiatives require involvement and communication with not only citizens but partnerships with other government and non-government agencies and, in some instances, international cooperation with foreign governments and organizations. For example, managing the growing number of official and non-official crossings of the US-Mexico border has required input from all levels of US and Mexican governments, multiple government agencies (like U.S Forest Services and U.S. Border Patrol), land management, and other non-federal agencies for social affairs. All of these parties had to communicate and collaborate to address issues of border security and protecting natural resources. As a result, the U.S.Border Patrol and Forest Service successfully enacted the terms of the 2006 memorandum of understanding, creating inter-agency forums, increasing field coordination and joint operations, and constructing fences and other tactical infrastructure.\n\nGoverning and managing large and growing metropolitan urban areas, covering numerous local governments and various levels of State and National governments, provides many governance challenges and opportunities. Abbott has reviewed metropolitan planning in South East Queensland (SEQ), Australia where collaborative governance arrangements, between State and local governments and the regional community, have evolved over a 20-year period leading to positive outputs and outcomes. \"The positive outputs and outcomes of collaborative governance and metropolitan planning in SEQ have been extensive and broad and extend well beyond statutory regional land use planning.\"These include: three endorsed non-statutory regional plans; two endorsed statutory regional plans; an infrastructure program linked to the State budget; regional sectoral plans for transport, water supply, natural resource management, etc.; new legislation and institutional arrangements for metropolitan governance; and capital works such as the SEQ busway network..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4611477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4611477", "title": "Consignor", "text": "Consignor\n\nThe consignor, in a contract of carriage, is the person sending a shipment to be delivered whether by land, sea or air. Some carriers, such as national postal entities, use the term \"sender\" or \"shipper\" but in the event of a legal dispute the proper and technical term \"consignor\" will generally be used.\n\nIf Sender sends a widget to Receiver via a delivery service, Sender is the consignor and Receiver is the consignee.\n"}
{"id": "1259822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1259822", "title": "Convention on the Unification of Certain Points of Substantive Law on Patents for Invention", "text": "Convention on the Unification of Certain Points of Substantive Law on Patents for Invention\n\nThe Convention on the Unification of Certain Points of Substantive Law on Patents for Invention, also called Strasbourg Convention or Strasbourg Patent Convention, is a multilateral treaty signed by Member States of the Council of Europe on November 27, 1963 in Strasbourg, France. It entered into force on August 1, 1980 and led to a significant harmonization of patent laws across European countries.\n\nThis Convention establishes patentability criteria, i.e. specifies on which grounds inventions can be rejected as not patentable. Its intent was to harmonize substantive patent law but not procedural law. This Convention is quite different from the European Patent Convention (EPC), which establishes an independent system for granting European patents.\n\nThe Strasbourg Convention has had a significant impact on the EPC, on national patent laws across Europe, on the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), on the Patent Law Treaty (PLT) and on the WTO's TRIPS.\n\nThirteen countries ratified the treaty or acceded to it: Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the Republic of Macedonia, Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18948365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18948365", "title": "Copyright infringement", "text": "Copyright infringement\n\nCopyright infringement (colloquially referred to as piracy) is the use of works protected by copyright law without permission, infringing certain exclusive rights granted to the copyright holder, such as the right to reproduce, distribute, display or perform the protected work, or to make derivative works. The copyright holder is typically the work's creator, or a publisher or other business to whom copyright has been assigned. Copyright holders routinely invoke legal and technological measures to prevent and penalize copyright infringement.\n\nCopyright infringement disputes are usually resolved through direct negotiation, a notice and take down process, or litigation in civil court. Egregious or large-scale commercial infringement, especially when it involves counterfeiting, is sometimes prosecuted via the criminal justice system. Shifting public expectations, advances in digital technology, and the increasing reach of the Internet have led to such widespread, anonymous infringement that copyright-dependent industries now focus less on pursuing individuals who seek and share copyright-protected content online, and more on expanding copyright law to recognize and penalize, as indirect infringers, the service providers and software distributors who are said to facilitate and encourage individual acts of infringement by others.\n\nEstimates of the actual economic impact of copyright infringement vary widely and depend on many factors. Nevertheless, copyright holders, industry representatives, and legislators have long characterized copyright infringement as piracy or theft – language which some U.S. courts now regard as pejorative or otherwise contentious.\n\nThe terms \"piracy\" and \"theft\" are often associated with copyright infringement. The original meaning of \"piracy\" is \"robbery or illegal violence at sea\", but the term has been in use for centuries as a synonym for acts of copyright infringement. \"Theft\", meanwhile, emphasizes the potential commercial harm of infringement to copyright holders. However, copyright is a type of intellectual property, an area of law distinct from that which covers robbery or theft, offenses related only to tangible property. Not all copyright infringement results in commercial loss, and the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1985 that infringement does not \"easily\" equate with theft.\n\nThis was taken further in the case \"MPAA v. Hotfile\", where Judge Kathleen M. Williams granted a motion to deny the MPAA the usage of words whose appearance was primarily \"pejorative\". This list included the word \"piracy\", the use of which, the motion by the defense stated, serves no court purpose but to misguide and inflame the jury.\n\nThe term \"piracy\" has been used to refer to the unauthorized copying, distribution and selling of works in copyright. The practice of labelling the infringement of exclusive rights in creative works as \"piracy\" predates statutory copyright law. Prior to the Statute of Anne in 1710, the Stationers' Company of London in 1557, received a Royal Charter giving the company a monopoly on publication and tasking it with enforcing the charter. Those who violated the charter were labelled pirates as early as 1603. Article 12 of the 1886 Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works uses the term \"piracy\" in relation to copyright infringement, stating \"Pirated works may be seized on importation into those countries of the Union where the original work enjoys legal protection.\" Article 61 of the 1994 Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) requires criminal procedures and penalties in cases of \"willful trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy on a commercial scale.\" Piracy traditionally refers to acts of copyright infringement intentionally committed for financial gain, though more recently, copyright holders have described online copyright infringement, particularly in relation to peer-to-peer file sharing networks, as \"piracy\".\n\nRichard Stallman and the GNU Project have criticized the use of the word \"piracy\" in these situations, saying that publishers use the word to refer to \"copying they don't approve of\" and that \"they [publishers] imply that it is ethically equivalent to attacking ships on the high seas, kidnapping and murdering the people on them.\"\n\nCopyright holders frequently refer to copyright infringement as theft. In copyright law, infringement does not refer to theft of physical objects that take away the owner's possession, but an instance where a person exercises one of the exclusive rights of the copyright holder without authorization. Courts have distinguished between copyright infringement and theft. For instance, the United States Supreme Court held in \"Dowling v. United States\" (1985) that bootleg phonorecords did not constitute stolen property. Instead, \n\n\"interference with copyright does not easily equate with theft, conversion, or fraud. The Copyright Act even employs a separate term of art to define one who misappropriates a copyright: '[...] an infringer of the copyright.'\" \n\nThe court said that in the case of copyright infringement, the province guaranteed to the copyright holder by copyright law – certain exclusive rights – is invaded, but no control, physical or otherwise, is taken over the copyright, nor is the copyright holder wholly deprived of using the copyrighted work or exercising the exclusive rights held.\n\nA 1979 East German court ruling found that software was \"neither a scientific work nor a creative achievement\" and ineligible for copyright protection, legalizing software copying in the country.\n\nThe term \"freebooting\" has been used to describe the unauthorized copying of online media, particularly videos, onto websites such as Facebook, YouTube or Twitter. The word itself had already been in use since the 16th century, referring to pirates, and meant \"looting\" or \"plundering\". This form of the word – a portmanteau of \"freeloading\" and \"bootlegging\" – was suggested by YouTuber and podcaster Brady Haran in the podcast \"Hello Internet\". Haran advocated the term in an attempt to find a phrase more emotive than \"copyright infringement\", yet more appropriate than \"theft\". The phrase was also the title of the episode the phrase was coined on. An alternative proposed by co-host CGP Grey is viewjacking.\n\nSome of the motives for engaging in copyright infringement are the following:\n\n\nSometimes only partial compliance with license agreements is the cause. For example, in 2013, the US Army settled a lawsuit with Texas-based company Apptricity, which makes software that allows the army to track their soldiers in real time. In 2004, the US Army paid US$4.5 million for a license of 500 users, while allegedly installing the software for more than 9000 users; the case was settled for US$50 million. Major anti-piracy organizations, like the BSA, conduct software licensing audits regularly to ensure full compliance.\n\nCara Cusumano, director of the Tribeca Film Festival, stated in April 2014: \"Piracy is less about people not wanting to pay and more about just wanting the immediacy – people saying, 'I want to watch Spiderman right now' and downloading it\". The statement occurred during the third year that the festival used the Internet to present its content, while it was the first year that it featured a showcase of content producers who work exclusively online. Cusumano further explained that downloading behavior is not merely conducted by people who merely want to obtain content for free:\nI think that if companies were willing to put that material out there, moving forward, consumers will follow. It's just that they [consumers] want to consume films online and they're ready to consume films that way and we're not necessarily offering them in that way. So it's the distribution models that need to catch up. People will pay for the content.\n\nIn response to Cusumano's perspective, Screen Producers Australia executive director Matt Deaner clarified the motivation of the film industry: \"Distributors are usually wanting to encourage cinema-going as part of this process [monetizing through returns] and restrict the immediate access to online so as to encourage the maximum number of people to go to the cinema.\" Deaner further explained the matter in terms of the Australian film industry, stating: \"there are currently restrictions on quantities of tax support that a film can receive unless the film has a traditional cinema release.\"\n\nIn a study published in the \"Journal of Behavioural and Experimental Economics\", and reported on in early May 2014, researchers from the University of Portsmouth in the UK discussed findings from examining the illegal downloading behavior of 6,000 Finnish people, aged seven to 84. The list of reasons for downloading given by the study respondents included money saving; the ability to access material not on general release, or before it was released; and assisting artists to avoid involvement with record companies and movie studios.\n\nIn a public talk between Bill Gates, Warren Buffett, and Brent Schlender at the University of Washington in 1998, Bill Gates commented on piracy as a means to an end, whereby people who use Microsoft software illegally will eventually pay for it, out of familiarity, as a country's economy develops and legitimate products become more affordable to businesses and consumers:\n\nAlthough about three million computers get sold every year in China, people don't pay for the software. Someday they will, though. And as long as they're going to steal it, we want them to steal ours. They'll get sort of addicted, and then we'll somehow figure out how to collect sometime in the next decade.\nIn Media Piracy in Emerging Economies, the first independent international comparative study of media piracy with center on Brazil, India, Russia, South Africa, Mexico, Turkey and Bolivia, \"high prices for media goods, low incomes, and cheap digital technologies\" are the chief factors that lead to the global spread of media piracy, especially in emerging markets.\n\nAccording to the same study, even though digital piracy inflicts additional costs on the production side of media, it also offers the main access to media goods in developing countries. The strong tradeoffs that favor using digital piracy in developing economies dictate the current neglected law enforcements toward digital piracy. In China, the issue of digital infringement is not merely legal, but social – originating from the high demand for cheap and affordable goods as well as the governmental connections of the businesses which produce such goods.\n\nThere have been instances where a country's government bans a movie, resulting in the spread of copied videos and DVDs. Romanian-born documentary maker Ilinca Calugareanu wrote a \"New York Times\" article telling the story of Irina Margareta Nistor, a narrator for state TV under Nicolae Ceauşescu's regime. A visitor from the west gave her bootlegged copies of American movies, which she dubbed for secret viewings through Romania. According to the article, she dubbed more than 3,000 movies and became the country's second-most famous voice after Ceauşescu, even though no one knew her name until many years later.\n\nMost countries extend copyright protections to authors of works. In countries with copyright legislation, enforcement of copyright is generally the responsibility of the copyright holder. However, in several jurisdictions there are also criminal penalties for copyright infringement.\n\nCopyright infringement in civil law is any violation of the exclusive rights of the owner. In U.S. law, those rights include reproduction, the preparation of derivative works, distributing copies by sale or rental, and public performance or display.\n\nIn the U.S., copyright infringement is sometimes confronted via lawsuits in civil court, against alleged infringers directly, or against providers of services and software that support unauthorized copying. For example, major motion-picture corporation MGM Studios filed suit against P2P file-sharing services Grokster and Streamcast for their contributory role in copyright infringement. In 2005, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of MGM, holding that such services could be held liable for copyright infringement since they functioned and, indeed, willfully marketed themselves as venues for acquiring copyrighted movies. The \"MGM v. Grokster\" case did not overturn the earlier \"Sony v. Universal City Studios\" decision, but rather clouded the legal waters; future designers of software capable of being used for copyright infringement were warned.\n\nIn the United States, copyright term has been extended many times over from the original term of 14 years with a single renewal allowance of 14 years, to the current term of the life of the author plus 70 years. If the work was produced under corporate authorship it may last 120 years after creation or 95 years after publication, whichever is sooner.\n\nArticle 50 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) requires that signatory countries enable courts to remedy copyright infringement with injunctions and the destruction of infringing products, and award damages. Some jurisdictions only allow actual, provable damages, and some, like the U.S., allow for large statutory damage awards intended to deter would-be infringers and allow for compensation in situations where actual damages are difficult to prove.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, copyright or the right to enforce it can be contractually assigned to a third party which did not have a role in producing the work. When this outsourced litigator appears to have no intention of taking any copyright infringement cases to trial, but rather only takes them just far enough through the legal system to identify and exact settlements from suspected infringers, critics commonly refer to the party as a \"copyright troll\". Such practices have had mixed results in the U.S.\n\nPunishment of copyright infringement varies case-by-case across countries. Convictions may include jail time and/or severe fines for each instance of copyright infringement. In the United States, willful copyright infringement carries a maximum penalty of $150,000 per instance.\n\nArticle 61 of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs) requires that signatory countries establish criminal procedures and penalties in cases of \"willful trademark counterfeiting or copyright piracy on a commercial scale\". Copyright holders have demanded that states provide criminal sanctions for all types of copyright infringement.\n\nThe first criminal provision in U.S. copyright law was added in 1897, which established a misdemeanor penalty for \"unlawful performances and representations of copyrighted dramatic and musical compositions\" if the violation had been \"willful and for profit.\" Criminal copyright infringement requires that the infringer acted \"for the purpose of commercial advantage or private financial gain.\" . To establish criminal liability, the prosecutor must first show the basic elements of copyright infringement: ownership of a valid copyright, and the violation of one or more of the copyright holder's exclusive rights. The government must then establish that defendant willfully infringed or, in other words, possessed the necessary \"mens rea\". Misdemeanor infringement has a very low threshold in terms of number of copies and the value of the infringed works.\n\nThe ACTA trade agreement, signed in May 2011 by the United States, Japan, and the EU, requires that its parties add criminal penalties, including incarceration and fines, for copyright and trademark infringement, and obligated the parties to actively police for infringement.\n\n\"United States v. LaMacchia\" 871 F.Supp. 535 (1994) was a case decided by the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts which ruled that, under the copyright and cybercrime laws effective at the time, committing copyright infringement for non-commercial motives could not be prosecuted under criminal copyright law. The ruling gave rise to what became known as the \"LaMacchia Loophole\", wherein criminal charges of fraud or copyright infringement would be dismissed under current legal standards, so long as there was no profit motive involved.\n\nThe United States No Electronic Theft Act (NET Act), a federal law passed in 1997, in response to LaMacchia, provides for criminal prosecution of individuals who engage in copyright infringement under certain circumstances, even when there is no monetary profit or commercial benefit from the infringement. Maximum penalties can be five years in prison and up to $250,000 in fines. The NET Act also raised statutory damages by 50%. The court's ruling explicitly drew attention to the shortcomings of current law that allowed people to facilitate mass copyright infringement while being immune to prosecution under the Copyright Act.\n\nProposed laws such as the Stop Online Piracy Act broaden the definition of \"willful infringement\", and introduce felony charges for unauthorized media streaming. These bills are aimed towards defeating websites that carry or contain links to infringing content, but have raised concerns about domestic abuse and internet censorship.\n\nTo an extent, copyright law in some countries permits downloading copyright-protected content for personal, noncommercial use. Examples include Canada and European Union (EU) member states like Poland, and The Netherlands.\n\nThe personal copying exemption in the copyright law of EU member states stems from the EU Copyright Directive of 2001, which is generally devised to allow EU members to enact laws sanctioning making copies without authorization, as long as they are for personal, noncommercial use. The Copyright Directive was not intended to legitimize file-sharing, but rather the common practice of space shifting copyright-protected content from a legally purchased CD (for example) to certain kinds of devices and media, provided rights holders are compensated and no copy protection measures are circumvented. Rights-holder compensation takes various forms, depending on the country, but is generally either a levy on \"recording\" devices and media, or a tax on the content itself. In some countries, such as Canada, the applicability of such laws to copying onto general-purpose storage devices like computer hard drives, portable media players, and phones, for which no levies are collected, has been the subject of debate and further efforts to reform copyright law.\n\nIn some countries, the personal copying exemption explicitly requires that the content being copied was obtained legitimately – i.e., from authorized sources, not file-sharing networks. Other countries, such as the Netherlands, make no such distinction; the exemption there had been assumed, even by the government, to apply to any such copying, even from file-sharing networks. However, in April 2014, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that \"national legislation which makes no distinction between private copies made from lawful sources and those made from counterfeited or pirated sources cannot be tolerated.\"\n\nAlthough downloading or other private copying is sometimes permitted, public distribution – by uploading or otherwise offering to share copyright-protected content – remains illegal in most, if not all countries. For example, in Canada, even though it was once legal to download any copyrighted file as long as it was for noncommercial use, it was still illegal to distribute the copyrighted files (e.g. by uploading them to a P2P network).\n\nSome countries, like Canada and Germany, have limited the penalties for non-commercial copyright infringement. For example, Germany has passed a bill to limit the fine for individuals accused of sharing movies and series to €800-900. Canada's Copyright Modernization Act claims that statutory damages for non-commercial copyright infringement are capped at C$5,000 but this only applies to copies that have been made without the breaking of any \"digital lock\". However, this only applies to \"bootleg distribution\" and not non-commercial use.\n\nTitle I of the U.S. DMCA, the WIPO Copyright and Performances and Phonograms Treaties Implementation Act has provisions that prevent persons from \"circumvent[ing] a technological measure that effectively controls access to a work\". Thus if a distributor of copyrighted works has some kind of software, dongle or password access device installed in instances of the work, any attempt to bypass such a copy protection scheme may be actionable – though the US Copyright Office is currently reviewing anticircumvention rulemaking under DMCA – anti-circumvention exemptions that have been in place under the DMCA include those in software designed to filter websites that are generally seen to be inefficient (child safety and public library website filtering software) and the circumvention of copy protection mechanisms that have malfunctioned, have caused the instance of the work to become inoperable or which are no longer supported by their manufacturers. According to Abby House Media Inc v. Apple Inc., it is legal to point users to DRM-stripping software and inform them how to use it because of lack of evidence that DRM stripping leads to copyright infringement.\n\nWhether Internet intermediaries are liable for copyright infringement by their users is a subject of debate and court cases in a number of countries.\n\nInternet intermediaries were formerly understood to be internet service providers (ISPs). However, questions of liability have also emerged in relation to other Internet infrastructure intermediaries, including Internet backbone providers, cable companies and mobile communications providers.\n\nIn addition, intermediaries are now also generally understood to include Internet portals, software and games providers, those providing virtual information such as interactive forums and comment facilities with or without a moderation system, aggregators of various kinds, such as news aggregators, universities, libraries and archives, web search engines, chat rooms, web blogs, mailing lists, and any website which provides access to third party content through, for example, hyperlinks, a crucial element of the World Wide Web.\n\nEarly court cases focused on the liability of Internet service providers (ISPs) for hosting, transmitting or publishing user-supplied content that could be actioned under civil or criminal law, such as libel, defamation, or pornography. As different content was considered in different legal systems, and in the absence of common definitions for \"ISPs\", \"bulletin boards\" or \"online publishers\", early law on online intermediaries' liability varied widely from country to country. The first laws on online intermediaries' liability were passed from the mid-1990s onwards.\n\nThe debate has shifted away from questions about liability for specific content, including that which may infringe copyright, towards whether online intermediaries should be \"generally\" responsible for content accessible through their services or infrastructure.\n\nThe U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (1998) and the European E-Commerce Directive (2000) provide online intermediaries with limited statutory immunity from liability for copyright infringement. Online intermediaries hosting content that infringes copyright are not liable, so long as they do not know about it and take actions once the infringing content is brought to their attention. In U.S. law this is characterized as \"safe harbor\" provisions. Under European law, the governing principles for Internet Service Providers are \"mere conduit\", meaning that they are neutral 'pipes' with no knowledge of what they are carrying; and 'no obligation to monitor' meaning that they cannot be given a general mandate by governments to monitor content. These two principles are a barrier for certain forms of online copyright enforcement and they were the reason behind an attempt to amend the European Telecoms Package in 2009 to support new measures against copyright infringement.\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing intermediaries have been denied access to safe harbor provisions in relation to copyright infringement. Legal action against such intermediaries, such as Napster, are generally brought in relation to principles of secondary liability for copyright infringement, such as contributory liability and vicarious liability.\n\nThese types of intermediaries do not host or transmit infringing content, themselves, but may be regarded in some courts as encouraging, enabling or facilitating infringement by users. These intermediaries may include the author, publishers and marketers of peer-to-peer networking software, and the websites that allow users to download such software. In the case of the BitTorrent protocol, intermediaries may include the torrent tracker and any websites or search engines which facilitate access to torrent files. Torrent files don't contain copyrighted content, but they may make reference to files that do, and they may point to trackers which coordinate the sharing of those files. Some torrent indexing and search sites, such as The Pirate Bay, now encourage the use of magnet links, instead of direct links to torrent files, creating another layer of indirection; using such links, torrent files are obtained from other peers, rather than from a particular website.\n\nSince the late 1990s, copyright holders have taken legal actions against a number of peer-to-peer intermediaries, such as pir, Grokster, eMule, SoulSeek, BitTorrent and Limewire, and case law on the liability of Internet service providers (ISPs) in relation to copyright infringement has emerged primarily in relation to these cases.\n\nNevertheless, whether and to what degree any of these types of intermediaries have secondary liability is the subject of ongoing litigation. The decentralised structure of peer-to-peer networks, in particular, does not sit easily with existing laws on online intermediaries' liability. The BitTorrent protocol established an entirely decentralised network architecture in order to distribute large files effectively. Recent developments in peer-to-peer technology towards more complex network configurations are said to have been driven by a desire to avoid liability as intermediaries under existing laws.\n\nCopyright law does not grant authors and publishers absolute control over the use of their work. Only certain types of works and kinds of uses are protected; only unauthorized uses of protected works can be said to be infringing.\n\nArticle 10 of the Berne Convention mandates that national laws provide for limitations to copyright, so that copyright protection does not extend to certain kinds of uses that fall under what the treaty calls \"fair practice\", including but not limited to minimal quotations used in journalism and education. The laws implementing these limitations and exceptions for uses that would otherwise be infringing broadly fall into the categories of either fair use or fair dealing. In common law systems, these fair practice statutes typically enshrine principles underlying many earlier judicial precedents, and are considered essential to freedom of speech.\n\nAnother example is the practice of compulsory licensing, which is where the law forbids copyright owners from denying a license for certain uses of certain kinds of works, such as compilations and live performances of music. Compulsory licensing laws generally say that for certain uses of certain works, no infringement occurs as long as a royalty, at a rate determined by law rather than private negotiation, is paid to the copyright owner or representative copyright collective. Some fair dealing laws, such as Canada's, include similar royalty requirements.\n\nIn Europe, the copyright infringement case Public Relations Consultants Association Ltd v Newspaper Licensing Agency Ltd had two prongs; one concerned whether a news aggregator service infringed the copyright of the news generators; the other concerned whether the temporary web cache created by the web browser of a consumer of the aggregator's service, \"also\" infringed the copyright of the news generators. The first prong was decided in favor of the news generators; in June 2014 the second prong was decided by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU), which ruled that the temporary web cache of consumers of the aggregator did not infringe the copyright of the news generators.\n\nIn order to qualify for protection, a work must be an expression with a degree of originality, and it must be in a fixed medium, such as written down on paper or recorded digitally. The idea itself is not protected. That is, a copy of someone else's original idea is not infringing unless it copies that person's unique, tangible \"expression\" of the idea. Some of these limitations, especially regarding what qualifies as original, are embodied only in case law (judicial precedent), rather than in statutes.\n\nIn the U.S., for example, copyright case law contains a substantial similarity requirement to determine whether the work was copied. Likewise, courts may require computer software to pass an Abstraction-Filtration-Comparison test (AFC Test) to determine if it is too abstract to qualify for protection, or too dissimilar to an original work to be considered infringing. Software-related case law has also clarified that the amount of R&D, effort and expense put into a work's creation doesn't affect copyright protection.\n\nEvaluation of alleged copyright infringement in a court of law may be substantial; the time and costs required to apply these tests vary based on the size and complexity of the copyrighted material. Furthermore, there is no standard or universally accepted test; some courts have rejected the AFC Test, for example, in favor of narrower criteria.\n\nThe POSAR test, a recently devised forensic procedure for establishing software copyright infringement cases, is an extension or an enhancement of the AFC test. POSAR, with its added features and additional facilities, offers something more to the legal and the judicial domain than what the AFC test offers. These additional features and facilities make the test more sensitive to the technical and legal requirements of software copyright infringement.\n\nThe BSA outlined four strategies that governments can adopt to reduce software piracy rates in its 2011 piracy study results:\n\n\nCorporations and legislatures take different types of preventative measures to deter copyright infringement, with much of the focus since the early 1990s being on preventing or reducing digital methods of infringement. Strategies include education, civil & criminal legislation, and international agreements, as well as publicizing anti-piracy litigation successes and imposing forms of digital media copy protection, such as controversial DRM technology and anti-circumvention laws, which limit the amount of control consumers have over the use of products and content they have purchased.\n\nLegislatures have reduced infringement by narrowing the scope of what is considered infringing. Aside from upholding international copyright treaty obligations to provide general limitations and exceptions, nations have enacted compulsory licensing laws applying specifically to digital works and uses. For example, in the U.S., the DMCA, an implementation of the 1996 WIPO Copyright Treaty, considers digital transmissions of audio recordings to be licensed as long as a designated copyright collective's royalty and reporting requirements are met. The DMCA also provides safe harbor for digital service providers whose users are suspected of copyright infringement, thus reducing the likelihood that the providers themselves will be considered directly infringing.\n\nSome copyright owners voluntarily reduce the scope of what is considered infringement by employing relatively permissive, \"open\" licensing strategies: rather than privately negotiating license terms with individual users who must first seek out the copyright owner and ask for permission, the copyright owner publishes and distributes the work with a prepared license that anyone can use, as long as they adhere to certain conditions. This has the effect of reducing infringement – and the burden on courts – by simply permitting certain types of uses under terms that the copyright owner considers reasonable. Examples include free software licenses, like the GNU General Public License (GPL), and the Creative Commons licenses, which are predominantly applied to visual and literary works.\n\nTo prevent piracy of films, the standard drill of film distribution is to have a movie first released through movie theaters (theatrical window), on average approximately 16 and a half weeks,\nbefore having it released to Blu-Ray and DVD (entering its video window). During the theatrical window, digital versions of films are often transported in data storage devices by couriers rather than by data transmission. The data can be encrypted, with the key being made to work only at specific times in order to prevent leakage between screens. Coded Anti-Piracy marks can be added to films to identify the source of illegal copies and shut them down.\n\nOrganizations disagree on the scope and magnitude of copyright infringement's free rider economic effects and public support for the copyright regime.\n\nThe European Commission funded a study to analyze \"the extent to which unauthorised online consumption of copyrighted materials (music, audiovisual, books and video games) displaces sales of online and offline legal content\", across Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain, France, Poland and Sweden; the public funding behind the study provided a necessary basis for its neutrality. 30,000 users, including minors between 14 and 17 years, were surveyed among September and October 2014. While a negative impact was found for the film industry, videogame sales were positively affected by illegal consumption, possibly due to \"the industry being successful in converting illegal users to paying users\" and employing player-oriented strategies (for example, by providing additional bonus levels or items in the gameplay for a fee); finally, no evidence was found for any claims of sales displacement in the other market sectors. According to the European Digital Rights association, the study may have been censored: specifically, as of 2018, the European Commission has not published the results, except in the part where the film industry was found to be adversely affected by illegal content consumption. Access to the study was requested and obtained by Member of the European Parliament Julia Reda.\n\nIn relation to computer software, the Business Software Alliance (BSA) claimed in its 2011 piracy study: \"Public opinion continues to support intellectual property (IP) rights: Seven PC users in 10 support paying innovators to promote more technological advances.\"\n\nFollowing consultation with experts on copyright infringement, the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO) clarified in 2010 that \"estimating the economic impact of IP [intellectual property] infringements is extremely difficult, and assumptions must be used due to the absence of data,\" while \"it is difficult, if not impossible, to quantify the net effect of counterfeiting and piracy on the economy as a whole.\"\n\nThe U.S. GAO's 2010 findings regarding the great difficulty of accurately gauging the economic impact of copyright infringement was reinforced within the same report by the body's research into three commonly cited estimates that had previously been provided to U.S. agencies. The GAO report explained that the sources – a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) estimate, a Customs and Border Protection (CBP) press release and a Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association estimate – \"cannot be substantiated or traced back to an underlying data source or methodology.\"\n\nDeaner explained the importance of rewarding the \"investment risk\" taken by motion picture studios in 2014:\nUsually movies are hot because a distributor has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars promoting the product in print and TV and other forms of advertising. The major Hollywood studios spend millions on this process with marketing costs rivalling the costs of production. They are attempting then to monetise through returns that can justify the investment in both the costs of promotion and production.\n\nIn 2008, the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) reported that its six major member companies lost US$6.1 billion to piracy. A 2009 \"Los Angeles Daily News\" article then cited a loss figure of \"roughly $20 billion a year\" for Hollywood studios. According to a 2013 Wall Street Journal article, industry estimates in the United States range between $6.1B to $18.5B per year.\n\nIn an early May 2014 \"Guardian\" article, an annual loss figure of US$20.5 billion was cited for the movie industry. The article's basis is the results of a University of Portsmouth study that only involved Finnish participants, aged between seven and 84. The researchers, who worked with 6,000 participants, stated: \"Movie pirates are also more likely to cut down their piracy if they feel they are harming the industry compared with people who illegally download music\".\n\nHowever, a study conducted on data from sixteen countries between 2005 and 2013, many of which had enacted anti-piracy measures to increase box office revenues of movies, found no significant increases in any markets attributable to policy interventions, which calls into doubt the claimed negative economic effects of digital piracy on the film industry.\n\nPsion Software claimed in 1983 that software piracy cost it £2.9 million a year, 30% of its revenue. According to a 2007 BSA and International Data Corporation (IDC) study, the five countries with the highest rates of software piracy were: 1. Armenia (93%); 2. Bangladesh (92%); 3. Azerbaijan (92%); 4. Moldova (92%); and 5. Zimbabwe (91%). According to the study's results, the five countries with the lowest piracy rates were: 1. U.S. (20%); 2. Luxembourg (21%); 3. New Zealand (22%); 4. Japan (23%); and 5. Austria (25%). The 2007 report showed that the Asia-Pacific region was associated with the highest amount of loss, in terms of U.S. dollars, with $14,090,000, followed by the European Union, with a loss of $12,383,000; the lowest amount of U.S. dollars was lost in the Middle East/Africa region, where $2,446,000 was documented.\n\nIn its 2011 report, conducted in partnership with IDC and Ipsos Public Affairs, the BSA stated: \"Over half of the world's personal computer users – 57 percent – admit to pirating software.\" The ninth annual \"BSA Global Software Piracy Study\" claims that the \"commercial value of this shadow market of pirated software\" was worth US$63.4 billion in 2011, with the highest commercial value of pirated PC software existent in the U.S. during that time period (US$9,773,000). According to the 2011 study, Zimbabwe was the nation with the highest piracy rate, at 92%, while the lowest piracy rate was present in the U.S., at 19%.\n\nThe GAO noted in 2010 that the BSA's research up until that year defined \"piracy as the difference between total installed software and legitimate software sold, and its scope involved only packaged physical software.\"\n\nIn 2007, the Institute for Policy Innovation (IPI) reported that music piracy took $12.5 billion from the U.S. economy. According to the study, musicians and those involved in the recording industry are not the only ones who experience losses attributed to music piracy. Retailers have lost over a billion dollars, while piracy has resulted in 46,000 fewer production-level jobs and almost 25,000 retail jobs. The U.S. government was also reported to suffer from music piracy, losing $422 million in tax revenue.\n\nA report from 2013, released by the European Commission Joint Research Centre suggests that illegal music downloads have almost no effect on the number of legal music downloads. The study analyzed the behavior of 16,000 European music consumers and found that although music piracy negatively affects offline music sales, illegal music downloads had a positive effect on legal music purchases. Without illegal downloading, legal purchases were about two percent lower.\n\nThe study has received criticism, particularly from The International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, which believes the study is flawed and misleading. One argument against the research is that many music consumers only download music illegally. The IFPI also points out that music piracy affects not only online music sales but also multiple facets of the music industry, which is not addressed in the study.\n\nThe methodology of studies utilized by industry spokespeople has been heavily criticized. Inflated claims for damages and allegations of economic harm are common in copyright disputes. Some studies and figures, including those cited by the MPAA and RIAA with regards to the economic effects of film and music downloads, have been widely disputed as based on questionable assumptions which resulted in statistically unsound numbers.\n\nIn one extreme example, the RIAA claimed damages against LimeWire totaling $75 trillion – more than the global GDP – and \"respectfully\" disagreed with the judge's ruling that such claims were \"absurd\".\n\nHowever, this $75 trillion figure is obtained through one specific interpretation of copyright law that would count each song downloaded as an infringement of copyright. After the conclusion of the case, LimeWire agreed to pay $105 million to RIAA.\n\nThe judicial system has also found flaws in industry estimates and calculations. In one decision, US District Court Judge James P. Jones found that the \"RIAA's request problematically assumes that every illegal download resulted in a lost sale,\" indicating profit-loss estimates were likely extremely off.\n\nOther critics of industry estimates argue that those who use peer-to-peer sharing services, or practice \"piracy\" are actually more likely to pay for music. A Jupiter Research study in 2000 found that \"Napster users were 45 percent more likely to have increased their music purchasing habits than online music fans who don't use the software were.\" This indicated that users of peer-to-peer sharing didn't hurt the profits of the music industry, but in fact may have increased it.\n\nProfessor Aram Sinnreich, in his book \"The Piracy Crusade\", states that the connection between declining music sales and the creation of peer to peer file sharing sites such as Napster is tenuous, based on correlation rather than causation. He argues that the industry at the time was undergoing artificial expansion, what he describes as a \"'perfect bubble'—a confluence of economic, political, and technological forces that drove the aggregate value of music sales to unprecedented heights at the end of the twentieth century\".\n\nSinnreich cites multiple causes for the economic bubble, including the CD format replacement cycle; the shift from music specialty stores to wholesale suppliers of music and 'minimum advertised pricing'; and the economic expansion of 1991–2001. He believes that with the introduction of new digital technologies, the bubble burst, and the industry suffered as a result.\n\nThe 2011 Business Software Alliance Piracy Study Standard, estimates the total commercial value of illegally copied software to be at $59 billion in 2010, with emerging markets accounting for $31.9 billion, over half of the total. Furthermore, mature markets for the first time received less PC shipments than emerging economies in 2010. In addition with software infringement rates of 68 percent comparing to 24 percent of mature markets, emerging markets thus possess the majority of the global increase in the commercial value of counterfeit software. China continues to have the highest commercial value of such software at $8.9 billion among developing countries and second in the world behind the US at $9.7 billion in 2011. In 2011, the Business Software Alliance announced that 83 percent of software deployed on PCs in Africa has been pirated (excluding South Africa).\n\nSome countries distinguish corporate piracy from private use, which is tolerated as a welfare service. This is the leading reason developing countries refuse to accept or respect copyright laws. Traian Băsescu, the president of Romania, stated that \"piracy helped the young generation discover computers. It set off the development of the IT industry in Romania.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46504539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46504539", "title": "Corporate accountability for human rights violations", "text": "Corporate accountability for human rights violations\n\nHolding corporations accountable for either direct conduct or complicity for human rights violations has become an increasing area of attention in promoting human rights. Multinational corporations in particular have been singled out as important figures, for better or worse, in the maintenance of human rights given their economic status and international dimension. As it currently stands there is no mechanism at the international level which can hold corporations legally accountable. Reliance has instead been placed upon a number of soft law instruments the most important one of which is the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. With the potential exception for redress under the Alien Tort Statute corporations are only legally accountable for human rights violations under the municipal law of the Nation in which the violation is alleged to have occurred or the company is based.\n\nMultinational corporations emerged in the 1990s as one of the most significant challenges to the dominance of states in the social and economic international order. In 2013 37 of the top 100 economies in the world were corporations, with Wal-Mart Stores annual revenue exceeding the GDP of all but the top 27 states in the world. As a result, there have been increasing concerns over the role multinationals have in promoting and protecting international human rights. Under an orthodox view of international law the obligation to protect human rights lies with the nation state. The power of multinationals has been recognized as diminishing the ability of weaker states to enforce human rights. Furthermore, concerns have been raised over the operation of multinationals in countries which have a poor human rights record. Numerous cases such as Doe v. Unocal Corp. alleging gross human rights violations carried out by multinationals or their associates in countries such as Burma (Myanmar) exist. Whilst concern has been raised over the role multinationals have played in human rights violations, recognition has also been given to the fact that multinationals have the potential to promote human rights in states with a poor track record beyond the ability of other nation states.\n\nUnder the International human rights framework corporations can only be held directly accountable for human rights violations which constitute international crimes as provided for in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Under the orthodox view States are the primary “subjects” of international law, and whilst International Organizations hold international legal personality, individuals and corporations hold limited standing There has been extensive debate on what status multinational corporations should hold at international law. Those arguing that multinationals should hold rights and duties do so on the ground that this is necessary given their size and influence. Those who argue against the imposition of international law upon multinationals contend that to do so would mean conveying rights which would inevitably enhance the influence and power they hold. Recent developments have seen the articulation of the human rights obligations of corporations but no enforceable regulatory mechanism exists at the international level.\n\nThe United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights stand as the authoritative statement on the human rights standards corporations should adhere to. The Principles consist of a three pillar framework: protect, respect and remedy. The Principles do not create new law or impose obligations on corporations, instead they provide what should constitute best practice. The protect pillar retains the orthodox position that is the responsibility of states to protect human rights. The respect pillar holds that corporations should respect human rights, undertaking due diligence to ensure that their conduct does not infringe upon any rights. The remedy pillar calls for remedies both judicial and non-judicial to be provided for those whose human rights have been infringed by a corporation. The response to the Principles has been mixed. The OECD, European Commission, and the United Nations Global Compact have all endorsed the Principles as providing clarity and a point of reference for future developments. Of most significance the United Nations Human Rights Council formally endorsed the Principles shortly after their publication. The Principles not been met with universal favour. The International Federation for Human Rights, which represents numerous human rights groups, criticized the Principles for failing to provide an effective remedy for victims on an international level and failing to recognize the responsibility of states for the actions of their companies abroad. Although currently non-binding there has been speculation by scholars that the Principles could provide a platform for a binding instrument or solidify into customary international law therefore creating legally binding obligations.\n\nThe \"OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises\" is a soft-law instrument containing information on the standards of conduct Multinational corporations should aim to meet. “They provide non-binding principles and standards for responsible business conduct in a global context consistent with applicable laws and internationally recognised standards.” Section IV of the updated 2011 version of the Guidelines deals directly with human rights and reiterates much of the content present in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. As such the Guidelines directly endorse the UN Guiding Principles. Section IV provides:\n\"States have the duty to protect human rights. Enterprises should, within the framework of internationally recognised human rights, the international human rights obligations of the countries in which they operate as well as relevant domestic laws and regulations:\nThe above six points mirror the three pillars of the UN Guiding Principles; State duty to protect, corporate responsibility to respect, and access to remedy. The Guidelines require participating states to establish National Contact Points (NCP). Allegations from individuals can be brought forward to the NCP. These are referred to as specific instances. The merits of the claim are then addressed by the NCP and if a case is found then an investigation will be undertaken. Mediation may take place between the company in question and the complainant as one of the final stages in the process. If a company is found to be in breach of the guidelines then a Final Statement will be produced outlining the violations of the Guidelines which occurred along with an impact assessment. Although remedies for any breaches of human rights are sought they cannot be enforced under the Guidelines. Amnesty International has commented that the Guidelines provide a \"lens for examining business conduct with regard to human rights.\" In this sense it has been argued that the OECD Guidelines have the potential to promote a degree of accountability. Amnesty International in its Briefing for the UK National Contact Point advised on the potential repercussions of a Final Statement for companies found to be non-compliant. Reputation, ability to operate, and value of shares may all be detrimentally affected by a finding of non-compliance. Amnesty believes that this may act as a deterrent, leveling the playing field for those companies who ensure they adhere to human rights standards. The rationale behind this being that the cost-benefit relationship is altered in favour of adherence to human rights.\n\nMany companies have taken it upon themselves to adopt their own codes of conduct which are self-imposed ethical standards. Most contain provisions on human rights. The Business and Human Rights Resource Centre maintains a list of companies which have a human rights policy in place. Whilst codes promote accountability, critics have argued that given their voluntary nature, and generally speaking lack of enforcement mechanisms, they are of limited value.\n\nSeveral organisations and commentators have recognised that many victims of human rights violations at the hands of multinational corporations will not have a means of redress in the country the violation has occurred. As such victims often rely on the exercise of extraterritorial jurisdiction. In Europe jurisdiction is granted to hear civil claims against via Resolution 44/2001 of the European Council but this requires that the corporation in question be domiciled in a Member State. The Alien Tort Statute is unique in that it in principle provides Federal courts in the United States of America with near universal jurisdiction to hear claims alleging serious violation of customary international law or the \"law of nations\", the only nexus required being that the defendant be present in the United States. However, the application of the statute to claims made against multinational corporations for human rights violations occurring abroad remains uncertain. Corporate liability for extraterritorial harms has been allowed by the Seventh, Ninth, Eleventh and D.C. Circuits but an increasing number of procedural limitations restricting access of foreign plaintiffs to redress have emerged. The recent decision of the Supreme Court in Kiobel v. Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. ruled that there is a presumption against the extraterritorial application of the Alien Tort Statue. The Business and Human Rights Resource Centre cites Kiobel as a turning point in the use of the Alien Tort Statue as a means for redress for human rights violations at the hands of corporations, and part of a wider trend globally in which avenues for extraterritorial claims are closing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28647628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28647628", "title": "David S. Muir", "text": "David S. Muir\n\nDavid S. Muir (born 4 January 1971) is a Scottish marketing and political communications professional. He was Director of Political Strategy for British prime minister Gordon Brown between 2008 and 2010.\n\nMuir was born in Falkirk and attended his local comprehensive Falkirk High School. In 1988 attended the University of Glasgow. In 1992 he graduated with a MA Hons 1st Class in Politics and Economics. He also won the Alistair Reid Prize for Politics for the outstanding study of politics and an ESU Scholarship to work with the US politician Byron Dorgan. He later graduated from London Business School with a Master of Business Administration.\n\nIn 1992 Muir joined the advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather, becoming New Business Director until taking a leave of absence to complete his MBA in 1999. In 2001 he returned to Ogilvy where he focussed on expanding the group through organic growth and acquisitions. In 2003 he wrote with Jon Miller \"The Business of Brands\", looking at how businesses could nurture and value their brands.\n\nIn 2005 he moved over to WPP to take over \"The Channel\" from Mandy Pooler. There he helped develop WPP's research tool Brandz where he developed the BrandZ Top 100. While at The Channel he also developed Sportz which allows global brands to evaluate sponsorship opportunities.\n\nIn 2008 Muir left WPP to become the British prime minister, Gordon Brown's, Director of Political Strategy, replacing Spencer Livermore who had left At Downing Street Muir was the Prime Ministers leading political adviser after Stephen Carter left. He along with Kirsty McNeill developed Brown's \"No time for a novice speech\" at the 2008 Labour Party Conference which was \"warmly received\".\n\nMuir worked closely with Peter Mandelson and Philip Gould on the Labour Party's 2010 general election campaign. He was the lead negotiator of the historic British TV Election Debates and was an early proponent of them.\n\nHe is believed to have argued for a hard edged attack on the Conservatives and their threat to middle income earners. In particular he pushed for the campaign to focus on the threat the Conservative's posed to child tax credits. It is also believed that he supported Gordon Brown's decision not to serve a full term.\n\nThe campaign denied the Conservatives an overall majority and Muir was part of small team that spent the next five days in discussions with the Liberal Democrats. Muir left Downing Street when Gordon Brown resigned in May 2010.\n"}
{"id": "11335973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11335973", "title": "Donkey-baiting", "text": "Donkey-baiting\n\nDonkey-baiting is a blood sport involving the baiting of donkeys.\n\nDonkey-baiting was quite common during the Victorian era, but was never popular with the masses. This had less to do with not wanting to exploit the animal, but rather that the donkey offered little appeal, as it was rarely possible to make it attack the dogs.\n\n"}
{"id": "33964029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33964029", "title": "Fair Employment Practice Committee", "text": "Fair Employment Practice Committee\n\nThe Fair Employment Practice Committee (FEPC) was created in 1941 in the United States to implement Executive Order 8802 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, \"banning discriminatory employment practices by Federal agencies and all unions and companies engaged in war-related work.\" This was shortly before the United States entered World War II. The EO also required Federal vocational and training programs to be administered without discrimination. Established in the Office of Production Management, the FEPC was intended to help African Americans and other minorities obtain jobs in the homefront industry during World War II. In practice, especially in its later years, the Committee also tried to open up more skilled jobs in industry to minorities, who had often been restricted to the lowest-level work. The FEPC appeared to have contributed to substantial economic improvements among black men during the 1940s by helping them gain entry to more skilled and higher-paying positions in defense-related industries.\n\nIn January 1942 after the US entry into World War II, President Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9040 to establish the War Production Board, which replaced the Office of Production Management, and put the FEPC under it answering to the War Manpower Commission. The new Board, concentrating on converting the domestic economy to a wartime footing, slashed the Committee's limited budget.\n\nIn response to strong support for the FEPC and a threatened march on the capital, Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9346 in May 1943. This gave the FEPC independent status within the Office of the President, established 12 regional offices, and widened its jurisdiction to all federal agencies, in addition to those directly involved in defense. It was put within the President's Office of Emergency Management. Analysis of the incomes of blacks who gained entree into the defense industries compared to men outside, showed that they benefited from the higher wages and generally retained their jobs in the early postwar years through 1950.\n\nOn June 25, 1941, President Roosevelt created the Committee on Fair Employment Practice, generally known as the Fair Employment Practice Committee (FEPC), by signing Executive Order 8802, which stated, \"there shall be no discrimination in the employment of workers in defense industries or government because of race, creed, color, or national origin.\" A. Philip Randolph, founding president of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, had lobbied with other activists for such provisions due to the wide discrimination against African Americans in employment across the country. With the buildup of defense industries for World War II, many African-Americans moved to the industrial and urban centers in the North and West during the second phase of the Great Migration in search of jobs and to avoid rampart racial segregation, bigotry, and violence in the rural South. Upon arriving there, they were constantly excluded from applying in the defense industries due to racism and fear of competition among Northern and Western whites. \n\nWith all groups of Americans being asked to support the war effort, Randolph demanded changes in employment practice of the defense industries. Together with other activists, Rudolph planned to muster tens of thousands of persons for a 1941 March on Washington to protest continued segregation in the military and discrimination in defense industries. A week before they planned march, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia of New York met with him and other officials to discuss the President's intent to issue an executive order announcing a policy of non-discrimination in Federal vocational and training programs. Randolph and his allies convinced him that more was needed, especially directed at the booming defense industries. \n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802 to prohibit discrimination among defense firms that had contracts with the government. He established the Fair Employment Practice Committee to implement this policy through education, accepting complaints of job discrimination, and working with industry on changing employment practices. The activists called off their march.\nAfter the executive order was signed, Roosevelt appointed Mark Etheridge, a liberal editor of the \"Louisville Courier-Journal,\" to head the new agency. Etheridge brought \"important political connections and public relations expertise to the job\" but he \"emphasized interracial cooperation over equality and refused to challenge the southern system of segregation.\" Knowing that industry was likely to be hostile, Randolph and other activists believed that the FEPC would depend on workers keeping their own records as to practices at work places and taking cases of discrimination to the committee.\n\nThe Fair Employment Practice Committee had a limited budget of $80,000 in its first year, paid from the emergency funds of the Office of the President (which continued to fund it, as it did some other agencies created by executive order). Etheridge needed to focus on a few activities in certain areas of the country. He held the first of the FEPC hearings in Los Angeles in October 1941. Some companies admitted they were discriminating based on race when hiring for new job positions, but Etheridge did little to change their practices. This lack of enforcement caused many union leaders, civil rights leaders, government officials, and employers to doubt whether the FEPC and Executive Order could produce desired change.\n\nDuring the second round of hearings on the Executive Order, held in Chicago and New York in January and February 1942 after US entry into World War II, supporters of the policy spoke. Support was high in these cities for several reasons: some positions with the FEPC were held by influential black attorneys who also worked closely with activists from the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, the NAACP, and other prominent groups. Also, in both cities \"activists [had] formed Metropolitan Fair Employment Practice Councils to help workers document discrimination and bring complaints before the FEPC and push local officials to implement Roosevelt's order.\" These cities also had histories of strong union organizing, and some union leaders were willing to cooperate to change workplaces.\n\nEtheridge stated his opposition to discrimination in the employment practices of companies that failed to implement the EO. In this second round of hearings, Etheridge took action related to companies that had complaints filed against them. For companies in Chicago and Milwaukee, he demanded that all the companies on trial update their employment policies to conform to the EO. The companies were required to document the changes made and send updated information to employment agencies (to alert them to hiring of minorities), in addition to providing reports about their employment status to the FEPC, for updates on minority hires.\n\nThe FEPC alone did not end employment discrimination in New York or Chicago, but contributed to improvements. Progress was also dependent on other parties, for instance, the government officials and local activists who worked together to enforce President Roosevelt's executive order.\n\nWithin a year of the Executive Order being issued, the number of African Americans and other minorities being employed by the defense industries had increased, especially in shipbuilding and aircraft plants. Automobile plants, which were rapidly converted to wartime production, showed the most significant improvement in hiring of minorities. They already had established unions that began to encourage compliance and force cooperation of members. After a wildcat strike in Detroit in 1943 at the Packard plant, when three blacks were promoted to work next to whites, activists and officials of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) became more effective in pressuring the companies and threatening white union members with the risk of being fired for refusing to work alongside African Americans.\n\nThe Fair Employment Practice Committee encountered great resistance in the South, where states had disfranchised blacks since the turn of the century and maintained legal segregation in public facilities under their Jim Crow laws. The Executive Order was strongly opposed by local employers and elected officials, as well as most white workers, and the civil rights organizations were not as influential because blacks were generally closed out of the political system, despite their significant portion of the population in many areas of the region. Black activists were effective in some areas in getting local officials to address discrimination in employment. As historian Thomas Maloney noted in a review of Andrew E. Kersten's book on the FEPC, \"Success in promoting greater labor market equality was dependent on support from local government, federal government offices in the city, and local activist organizations.\"\n\nThe FEPC had little power and no authority to regulate employment practices. The FEPC was given a very low budget, small staff, and little means for reinforcement. Historians such as Ronald Takaki believe it was a \"show\" kind of agency, set up for failure. It was opposed for ideological reasons by Southern Democrats and other congressmen, and by some labor officials. Some Federal officials in Washington actively frustrated the FEPC's efforts; for example, Undersecretary of State Sumner Welles advised President Roosevelt that the State Department was \"strongly opposed\" to the public hearings that the FEPC was planning to hold in June 1942, worrying that they might damage the US reputation abroad by publicizing social inequities or give its enemies material to undermine United States morale at home and among its fighting troops.\nDuring the first year, the FEPC had a budget of $80,000. Over time, the committee added staff, but its eventual budget of $431,609 provided average spending on positions that was below that for other agencies.\nThose who opposed the FEPC did so in many ways. Many efforts were taken to discredit the committee by questioning the constitutionality of its mission and accusing the FEPC of communism.\n\nCongressional attacks, including from powerful Southern Democrats, took place when the FEPC was required to testify before the House of Representatives Committee that oversaw its program. The House Rules Committee, headed by a Southern Congressman, also exerted control. In 1943 other opponents worked through the Senate to restrict agencies created by executive order; they required that after a year, the agency could have funds only if that money was appropriated to them by Congress, as was the policy for standing executive agencies set up by law. If the proposal had passed, the FEPC would likely have had even less money to carry out its program of holding hearings and taking testimony, as well as collecting and analyzing data from companies.\n\nCritics of the FEPC argue that the agency was created to appease Randolph and other activists to prevent a march on the capital. The Committee had a limited range of power and had to work largely by influence. The FEPC was limited to overseeing the defense industries and had no power in other industries where \"numerous Negroes were employed or sought employment.\"\n\nWithin the private sector of the Northern region of the United States, the FEPC began to make gains in enforcing non-discrimination. In the border region, its intervention led to some hate strikes by angry white workers. In the South, hate crimes and corruption among Southern government officials contributed to the FEPC's policies being relatively ineffective. Overall, the FEPC was relatively ineffective in its efforts to address the issue of racial discrimination throughout World War II.\n\nIn August 1942, President Roosevelt and others noticed that the progress of the FEPC was slowing. The agency had earlier that year been put under control of the War Production Board via Executive Order 9040, which was established to replace the Office of Production Management after US entry into the war, when it needed to convert industry to a wartime footing. Opponents of this action believed that Roosevelt was yielding to pressure from powerful southern Democrats in Congress. FEPC Chairman MacLean objected to the transfer, saying that Roosevelt's administration was reducing the FEPC to \"a small Federal bureau without power.\" A. Phillip Randolph said the White House's policy was completely \"emasculating\" the usefulness of the committee.\n\nRoosevelt said the change was intended to support the anti-discrimination agency, but some observers believed the change hampered it. As a start, the chairman of the War Manpower Commission \"slashed its budget, denied requests for office space, and refused to aid in conflicts with discriminatory contractors.\" Key personnel resigned in protest.\n\nRandolph and other activists protested as well, threatening a march on Washington to put pressure on the administration. In May 1943, Roosevelt strengthened the FEPC by Executive Order 9346, giving it independence by placing it within the Office for Emergency Management in the Executive Office of the President. The new executive order required that all government contracts have a mandatory non-discrimination clause, authorized twelve regional offices and appropriate staff, and broadened the jurisdiction of the agency to federal government agencies. During World War II the federal government was operating airfields, shipyards, supply centers, ammunition plants and other facilities that employed millions. The FEPC operated until the end of the war overseeing defense industries and federal agencies.\n\nThe FEPC expanded its jurisdiction to federal government departments and agencies as employers; they were \"now were explicitly covered along with war industries, unions and war-training programs.\" Agency records show that New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, and San Francisco, all major sites of defense industries, were the cities with the largest number of cases filed with the FEPC, about 200 in each place.\n\nWith the help of the FEPC, black men outside the South made substantial economic progress in the 1940s. As suggested by William J. Collins, the FEPC helped make opportunities by the following:\n\nTo promote establishment of a permanent FEPC in the government, A. Phillip Randolph recruited young feminist Anna Arnold Hedgeman in 1944 to work with a National Council to lobby for this goal. Because of limited funds, Hedgeman hired a staff of women and college students to help with the publicity and fundraising for the FEPC.\n\nShe wanted the FEPC Councils to promote fair employment policies in both state and local governments. Her staff introduced laws to this effect in almost every state, but not many state legislatures then supported such bills. A bill for a nationwide FEPC and anti-discrimination in employment made its way to Harry S. Truman after the death of President Roosevelt in 1945, who wanted to lobby the bill. By the time the Second World War ended in August, Congress \"provided some additional funding but ordered the FEPC to cease all operations by June 30, 1946.\"\n\nContinuing tensions in cities that were booming with increased populations for the defense industries erupted in race riots in 1943 in Detroit, Los Angeles, Mobile, Alabama; and Beaumont, Texas. In each city, new populations were competing for jobs and housing, and expectations were rising among African Americans to share in the wartime boom. In many places, white workers were resisting this change. In the Detroit Packard plant, 25,000 white workers walked off the job in 943 when three blacks were promoted to work next to whites in the assembly line. The FEPC worked to avoid such \"hate\" strikes and help employers manage integration, and to negotiate settlements in cases when strikes did take place.\n\nThe Fair Employment Practice Committee did not end racial discrimination in employment practices during World War II, but it did have a lasting effect in that era. It opened some doors, as far more of its cases were based on \"refusal to hire\" than \"refusal to upgrade\" or \"discriminatory working conditions\". It apparently helped blacks enter \"industries, firms, and occupations that otherwise might have remained closed to them.\"\n\nThe operation of the FEPC supported the idea that \"economic rights can be obtained principally by activity in the economic sphere: through education, protest, self-help, and, at times, intimidation.\" It gained support of states and government to eliminate racial discrimination in employment practices. During its relatively short period of operations from 1941 to 1946, the FEPC encouraged the formation of other groups with similar goals, such as the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights supporting the National Council for a Permanent FEPC.\n\nBy opening some good-paying jobs in the defense industry, the FEPC created opportunity for African Americans. By 1950, compared to other men in comparable positions, those blacks who gained jobs in defense were making 14% more than their counterparts outside. The proportion of blacks in the defense industry did not decline after the war, suggesting that many men had gained an entree into important new work. \nIn 1948, President Truman asked Congress to approve a permanent FEPC, anti-lynching legislation, and the abolition of the poll tax in federal elections. A Democratic coalition prevented the legislation's passage. Still operating effectively with one-party systems in their states due to disenfranchisement of blacks at the turn of the century, Southern Democrats had powerful positions in Congress, controlling chairmanships of important committees, and opposed these measures. In 1950, the House approved a permanent FEPC bill, but Southern senators filibustered and the bill failed. Congress has never enacted the FEPC into law. But New York, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Washington successfully enacted and enforced their own FEPC laws at the state level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34781059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34781059", "title": "Federal Constitutional Court", "text": "Federal Constitutional Court\n\nThe Federal Constitutional Court (; abbreviated: ') is the supreme constitutional court for the Federal Republic of Germany, established by the constitution or Basic Law (') of Germany. Since its inception with the beginning of the post-WW2 republic, the court has been located in the city of Karlsruheintentionally distanced from the other federal institutions in Berlin (earlier in Bonn) and other cities.\n\nThe main task of the court is judicial review, and it may declare legislation unconstitutional, thus rendering them ineffective. In this respect, it is similar to other supreme courts with judicial review powers, yet the court possesses a number of additional powers, and is regarded as among the most interventionist and powerful national courts in the world. Unlike other supreme courts, the constitutional court is not an integral stage of the judicial or appeals process (aside from cases concerning constitutional or public international law), and does not serve as a regular appellate court from lower courts or the Federal Supreme Courts on any violation of federal laws.\n\nThe court's jurisdiction is focused on constitutional issues and the compliance of all governmental institutions with the constitution. Constitutional amendments or changes passed by the Parliament are subject to its judicial review, since they have to be compatible with the most basic principles of the \"\" defined by the eternity clause.\n\nThe court's practice of enormous constitutional control frequency on the one hand, and the continuity in judicial restraint and political revision on the other hand, have created a unique defender of the \"\" since World War II and given it a significant role in Germany's modern democracy.\n\nThe Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany stipulates that all three branches of the state (the legislature, executive, and judiciary) are bound directly by the constitution in Article 20, Section 3 of the document. As a result, the court can rule acts of any branches unconstitutional, whether as formal violations (exceeding powers or violating procedures) or as material conflicts (when the civil rights prescribed in the \"Grundgesetz\" are not respected).\n\nThe powers of the Federal Constitutional Court are defined in article 93 of the \"Grundgesetz\".\nThis constitutional norm is set out in a federal law, the Federal Constitutional Court Act (BVerfGG), which also defines how decisions of the court on material conflicts are put into force. The Constitutional Court has therefore several strictly defined procedures in which cases may be brought before it:\n\n\nUp to 2009, the Constitutional Court had struck down more than 600 laws as unconstitutional.\n\nThe court consists of two senates, each of which has eight members, headed by a senate’s chairman. The members of each senate are allocated to three chambers for hearings in constitutional complaint and single regulation control cases. Each chamber consists of three judges, so each senate chairman is at the same time a member of two chambers.\n\nDecisions by a senate require a majority. In some cases a two-thirds vote is required (§ 15 IV 1 BVerfGG). Decisions by a chamber need to be unanimous. A chamber is not authorized to overrule a standing precedent of the senate to which it belongs; such issues need to be submitted to the senate as a whole. Similarly, a senate may not overrule a standing precedent of the other senate, and such issues will be submitted to a plenary meeting of all 16 judges (the Plenum).\n\nUnlike all other German courts, the court often publishes the vote count on its decisions (though only the final tally, not every judge's personal vote) and even allows its members to issue a dissenting opinion. This possibility, introduced only in 1971, is a remarkable deviation from German judicial tradition.\n\nOne of the two senate chairmen is also the President of the court, the other one being the Vice President. The presidency alternates between the two senates, i.e. the successor of a President is always chosen from the other senate. The 9th and current president of the court is Andreas Voßkuhle.\n\nThe Constitutional Court is able to actively administer the law and ensure that political and bureaucratic decisions comply with the rights of the individual enshrined in the Basic Law. Specifically, it can vet the democratic and constitutional legitimacy of bills proposed by federal or state government, scrutinise decisions (such as those relating to taxation) by the administration, arbitrate disputes over the implementation of law between states and the federal government, and (most controversially) ban non-democratic political parties. The Constitutional Court enjoys more public trust than the federal or state parliaments, which some say derives from the German enthusiasm for the rule of law.\n\nThe court's judges are elected by the Bundestag (the German parliament) and the Bundesrat (a legislative body that represents the sixteen state governments on the federal level). According to the Basic Law, each of these bodies selects four members of each senate, while the authority to select the court's president alternates between them. The selection of a judge requires a two-thirds vote.\n\nUntil 2015 the Bundestag has delegated this task to a special body (\"Richterwahlausschuss\", judges election board), consisting of a small number of Bundestag members. This procedure has caused some constitutional concern and was considered to be unconstitutional by many scholars. In 2015 the \"Bundesverfassungsgerichtsgesetz\" (law code of the Federal Constitutional Court) was changed in this aspect, ruling that the Bundestag elects judges to the court by secret ballot in the plenum, requiring a candidate to get a two-thirds majority, that has to equal at least an absolute majority of members of the Bundestag. The \"Richterwahlausschuss\" now only has to nominate a candidate. This new procedure was applied for the first time in September 2017, when Josef Christ was elected to the first senate as the successor of Wilhelm Schluckebier.\nIn the Bundesrat, a chamber in which the governments of the sixteen German states are represented (each state has 3 to 6 votes depending on its population, which it has to cast \"en bloc\"), a candidate currently needs at least 46 of 69 possible votes.\n\nThe judges are elected for a 12-year term, but they must retire upon reaching the age of 68. A re-election is not possible. A judge must be at least 40 years old and must be a well-trained jurist. Three out of eight members of each senate have served as a judge on one of the federal courts. Of the other five members of each senate, most judges previously served as an academic jurist at a university, as a public servant or as a lawyer. After ending their term, most judges withdraw themselves from public life. However, there are some prominent exceptions, most notably Roman Herzog, who was elected President of Germany in 1994, shortly before the end of his term as president of the court.\n\nThe court's head is the President of the Federal Constitutional Court, who chairs one of the two senates and joint sessions of the court, while the other senate is chaired by the Vice President of Federal Constitutional Court. The right to elect the President and the Vice President alternates between the Bundestag and the Bundesrat. If the President of the Federal Constitutional Court leaves office, i.e. when his or her term as judge at the court ends, the legislative body, whose turn it is to choose the President, has to elect one of the judges of the senate, of which the former President wasn't a member, with a two-thirds-majority. The same applies, if the office of Vice President falls vacant. The given legislative body is free to elect the judge it prefers, but since 1983, the sitting Vice President has always been elected as President.\n\nAs he or she is the highest ranking representative of the judicial branch of government, the President of the Federal Constitutional Court ranks 5th in the German order of precedence.\n\n\n\n\nOn 12 September 2012 the Court stated that the question of whether the ECB's decision to finance European constituent nations through the purchase of bonds on the secondary markets was ultra vires because it exceeded the limits established by the German act approving the ESM was to be examined. This demonstrates how a citizen's group has the ability to affect the conduct of European institutions. On 7 February 2014, the Court made a preliminary announcement on the case, which was to be published in full on 18 March. In its ruling, the Court decided to leave judgment to the Court of Justice of the EU (CJEU).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20472632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20472632", "title": "Federal jurisdiction", "text": "Federal jurisdiction\n\nFederal jurisdiction is the jurisdiction of the federal government in any country that uses federalism. Such a country is known as a Federation.\n\nAll federations, by definition, must have some form of federal jurisdiction, this will commonly include powers relating to international relations and war. Though power for particular actions varies from one federation to another.\n\n"}
{"id": "38040678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38040678", "title": "Fish Canneries Reference", "text": "Fish Canneries Reference\n\nCanada (AG) v British Columbia (AG), also known as the Reference as to constitutional validity of certain sections of The Fisheries Act, 1914 and the Fish Canneries Reference, is a significant decision of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in determining the boundaries of federal and provincial jurisdiction in Canada. It is also significant, in that it represented a major victory in the fight against discrimination aimed at Japanese Canadians, which was especially prevalent in British Columbia in the early part of the 20th century.\n\nUntil the early 1920s federal policy governing access to fishing licenses was basically open and\nnon-discriminatory. In 1922, under what became known as the \"oriental exclusion policy\", this was revised to provide for the reduction of the number of licenses granted to Japanese-Canadian fishermen, aiming to eventual total elimination of such licenses. In addition, conditions were attached for the prohibition of gas motors on such fishermen's vessels.\n\nThe controversy came to a head in 1927 as a prosecution against the Somerville Cannery Company for operating a cannery in Prince Rupert without a federal license. The cannery was operating as a floating clam cannery, the only one of its kind. All other canneries were on land. Francis Millerd, general manager and part-owner of Somerville, challenged the oriental exclusion policy through hiring Japanese-Canadian fishermen and lobbying to secure salmon fishing licenses for them. Charges against Somerville were dismissed, on the grounds that fish canneries did not require a federal license. Further pressure by Somerville and the Association of Fishermen of Japanese Origin resulted in the following reference questions being posed to the Supreme Court of Canada:\n\nThe Supreme Court unanimously held that the provisions cited in Question 1 were \"ultra vires\" the Parliament of Canada, as fish canning only occurs after the fish have been caught, thus not being within the federal fisheries jurisdiction. As a fish cannery is similar in nature to a fruit or vegetable cannery, it is a civil right in the province in which it is carried on, and therefore subject to provincial jurisdiction.\n\nNor could such provisions be saved by resorting to another head of power:\n\nIt was unnecessary to answer Question 2.\n\nIn a 4-3 decision concerning Question 3, it was held that the Minister must issue fishing licenses to all qualified persons that paid the appropriate fee, and there was no discretionary authority to withhold such licenses.\n\nNewcombe J (Anglin CJ and Rinfret and Lamont JJ, concurring) stated that the Minister could not exercise his licensing discretion in a discriminatory manner:\n\nDuff J (Mignault and Smith JJ, concurring) believed that \"There is nothing in the terms in which these provisions are expressed, nor, as far as I have been able to discover, in the terms of the regulations, pointing to a conclusion that the authority of the Minister is not a permissive one.\"\n\nThe federal government chose to ignore the ruling, pending appeal to the Privy Council. In the interim, prosecutions against Japanese-Canadian fishermen were being dismissed in the lower courts. The Association of Fishermen of Japanese Origin, having intervened in the hearing at the Supreme Court, were also respondents in the appeal.\n\nThe Judicial Committee upheld the ruling of the Supreme Court in its entirety. Before proceeding with the appeal at hand, Lord Tomlin considered the matter of where federal and provincial jurisdiction arise under Canadian constitutional law, and gave his summary of where the jurisprudence stood at that time:\n\nTomlin then turned to the question as to where jurisdiction over fish canneries fell. In that regard,\n\nAs such activity could not be seen to fall under any other heading of s. 91, and a licensing system could not reasonably be seen to be incidental to the federal power, it therefore fell within provincial jurisdiction.\n\nThe Association of Fishermen of Japanese Origin were awarded their costs in the appeal.\n\nThe gas boat restriction and the oriental exclusion policy were abandoned for the 1930 fishing season, and discrimination in the fishing industry came to an end.\n\nOn a larger view, the \"Fish Canneries Reference\" is considered to be one of the main foundations of Canadian constitutional jurisprudence, and its four-part summary of how to determine jurisdiction was subsequently cited with approval in the \"Aeronautics Reference\" in 1931.\n\nThe question of ministerial discretionary authority, and the extent as to how far it can go, continued to be debated, eventually to be settled by the Supreme Court in \"Roncarelli v. Duplessis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13941826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13941826", "title": "Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008", "text": "Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008\n\nThe Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (, also known as the 2008 U.S. Farm Bill) was a $288 billion, five-year agricultural policy bill that was passed into law by the United States Congress on June 18, 2008. The bill was a continuation of the 2002 Farm Bill. It continues the United States' long history of agricultural subsidies as well as pursuing areas such as energy, conservation, nutrition, and rural development. Some specific initiatives in the bill include increases in Food Stamp benefits, increased support for the production of cellulosic ethanol, and money for the research of pests, diseases and other agricultural problems.\n\nOn January 1, 2013, Congress passed the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 to avert the fiscal cliff and the next day President Barack Obama signed the Act into law. (Public Law No: 112-240) The \"fiscal cliff\" deal was primarily enacted to avoid automatic tax hikes and spending cuts, but also included provisions extending portions of the 2008 Farm Bill for nine months through September 30, 2013. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid demonstrated a commitment to working on a new five-year Farm Bill by reintroducing last session's Senate Farm Bill in the 113th Congress.\n\nOne version of this legislation, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 was passed by the United States House of Representatives on July 27, 2007. Despite opposition from some senators, including a failed amendment proposal by Senator Richard Lugar and a veto threat by President Bush, the Senate version of the bill, called the Food and Energy Security Act, was passed by the Senate Agriculture Committee on October 25, 2007, and later by the full Senate on December 14. In late April 2008, congressional negotiators finally reached a deal to reconcile the House and Senate bills. The deal increased spending on food stamps and other food programs while mostly maintaining the current farm subsidies, despite record farm profits.\n\nOn May 15, the House and Senate passed the bill, but President Bush issued a veto on May 21. The House voted to overturn the president's veto shortly thereafter, and with the margins by which the bill was passed, a Senate override also occurred; so the Congress overrode the president's veto, passing the bill into law (Public Law 110-234, the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007). However, the veto override was moot, as a 34-page section of the bill was omitted in the version sent to the White House. In effect, the President vetoed a bill Congress never considered. The bill had to be re-passed by Congress.\n\nThe House passed the Farm Bill again on May 22, and the Senate shortly thereafter. President Bush again vetoed the measure, but this veto was overridden in both Houses on June 18, so the Farm Bill in its entirety became law. A similar situation occurred in 2005 with the Deficit Reduction Act, where in the enrolling process certain mistakes were made changing the text of the bill. In that case, the bill was considered to be law even with the mistakes since the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tem of the Senate attested that the language sent to the President was indeed the text that was passed by Congress..\n\nThe bill originally caused controversy because the \"pay-as-you-go\" (Clause 10 of Rule XXI of the Rules of the United States House of Representatives) rule was waived. That rule prohibits the consideration of bills that increase the deficit in either a six-year period or an eleven-year period. The bill itself did not cause such an increase if using a \"baseline\", which is an estimate of future revenue and spending levels of the U.S. government, that was issued in 2007. A more recent baseline, issued in 2008, showed a large increase in the deficit over the applicable time periods. While other points of order are waived under certain circumstances, the paygo point of order is rarely ignored.\n\nIn regard to farm regulation, this Act focused on adjusting payment levels and eligibility requirements while bringing forth a new Average Crop Revenue Election program. Along with this, a permanent disaster assistance program was introduced with adjustments to the crop insurance program. Several new titles looked towards horticultural crops, organic agriculture, livestock, and poultry. Also, funding is increased and more programs are instituted to support producers who are alternating to organic agriculture. Some new rules were implemented within the Act for governing hog and poultry production contracts and also safety regarding poultry plant foods.\n\nAs for conservation, working land conservation and improved environmental practices were implemented. An expansion of the Conservation Security Program gives rise to the new Conservation Stewardship Program which is a voluntary program that influences producers to address resource concerns. This involved improving, maintaining, and managing conservation practices that already exist and also taking part in extra activities. The same changes apply to the energy title of the Act which also expanded the development of bio-based energy sources along with other renewable sources. Tax provisions on biofuels such as ethanol were introduced as well.\n\nThe Act accelerated the commercialization of advanced biofuels, including cellulosic ethanol, encourage the production of biomass crops, and expand the current Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Program.\n\nOn April 29, 2008, the Farm Bill contained three major components:\n\nSection 9003 of the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 provided for grants covering up to 30% of the cost of developing and building demonstration-scale biorefineries for producing \"advanced biofuels\", which essentially includes all fuels that are not produced from corn kernel starch. It also allows for loan guarantees of up to $250 million for building commercial-scale biorefineries to produce advanced biofuels. The bill funds the biorefinery program by drawing $75 million in funds from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for fiscal year (FY) 2009, increasing to $245 million by FY 2010. It also authorizes $150 million per year in discretionary funds for the program.\n\nSection 15321 of the bill established a new tax credit for producers of cellulosic biofuels, that is, biofuels produced from wood, grasses, or the non-edible parts of plants. The new cellulosic biofuel producer credit is set at $1.01 per gallon and applies only to fuel produced and used as fuel in the United States. In addition, Section 9005 of the bill provided $55 million in CCC funds in FY 2009 to support advanced biofuel production, increasing to $105 million by FY 2012. It also authorizes up to $25 million per year in discretionary funding.\n\nThe more crop-oriented measures include Section 9010 of the bill, which allowed the CCC to buy sugar from U.S. producers and sell it to bioenergy producers, and Section 9011, which creates the Biomass Crop Assistance Program to support the establishment and production of biomass crops.\n\nSection 9007 of the bill renames the U.S. Department of Agriculture's current Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Program as the \"Rural Energy for America Program\", providing $55 million in CCC funds for FY 2009, increasing to $70 million for FY 2011 and 2012, while authorizing another $25 million in discretionary funds. The program will provide grants of up to 25% of the cost of renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements for agricultural producers and rural small businesses, as well as guarantees for loans as large as $25 million.\n\nSection 9009 of the bill creates a new \"Rural Energy Self-Sufficiency Initiative\", which will support efforts to develop community-wide renewable energy systems. The bill provides no firm funding for the initiative but authorizes up to $5 million per year in discretionary funds.\n\nSection 9013 also authorizes up to $5 million per year to support community-wide wood-fueled energy systems.\n\nThe USDA announced on 2008-08-27 that 639 farms and rural businesses in 43 states and the Virgin Islands had been selected to receive $35 million in grants and loan guarantees for renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements. While many of the awards typically go towards more energy-efficient grain dryers, the USDA notes that a farm in Iowa will use its grant to replace a propane heating system with a geothermal heating system, while a firm in Louisiana will purchase energy-efficient electric motors for an irrigation well.\n\nOn January 16, 2009, the USDA also announced the first loan guarantee for a commercial-scale cellulosic ethanol plant.\n\nSection 9003 allowed the USDA Rural Development office to approve this $80 million loan to Range Fuels Inc. Range Fuels produces low carbon bio fuels from any and all biomass. The $80 million loan is dedicated to building a facility that will produce cellulosic ethanol from wood chips. In 2010 the plant is expected to achieve an output level of 20 million gallons of ethanol per year. Other benefits of the plant include an estimated 63 jobs that will be created to build and operate the facility.\n\nThe grants and loans were awarded through the Renewable Energy Systems and Energy Efficiency Improvements Program of the USDA Rural Development office. The program was created by Section 9006 of the 2002 Farm Bill and expanded under the 2008 Farm Bill.\n\nA few renewable energy source programs under the act included:\nFood and Nutrition Programs comprise approximately 80% of the total 2008 Food, Conservation & Energy Act bill budget.\nImprovements to domestic food nutrition and assistance for low-income families is greatly supported by the bill. This area provides for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Emergency Food Assistance Program, as well as the free fresh fruit and vegetable snack program which is meant to help schools with students in need. Also, the act provides help for organizations such as food banks and soup kitchens. Promoting savings is another provision of the act by improving resources limits and no longer counting tax-preferred retirement accounts and education accounts toward the limit of resources. The purchasing power of SNAP is also going to stop losing value each year under the act and the rules of SNAP will fully account for annual inflation.\n\nThe bill also increased funding, with the program being available in 35 elementary schools in each state. It allows more schools to be added in proportion to the student population of each state and schools are selected based on free and reduced lunch percentage. The program no longer permits nuts but rather looks to fresh fruits and vegetables instead.\nWith the extra nutrition title funding, it appropriates $4 million to establish a pilot program in many different schools in several states. This will provide whole grain products to participating school nutrition programs.\n$50 million a year is distributed to provide schools with fresh fruits and vegetables with the help of the Farm Bill while $3 million is used to conduct surveys about the school nutrition to examine what exactly the students eat.\n\nReports from the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2007 criticized the United States and other developed nations for their continued farm trade subsidies. Such subsidies, according to the reports, prevent fair competition from developing nations. Because of its continued refusal to conform to WTO guidelines, the United States was the target of up to $4 billion of potential trade sanctions by Brazil.\n\nPresident George W. Bush also expressed opposition to the bill, and vetoed it because of its high cost and negative impact on poorer farmers; his veto threat enabled numerous Republican congressmen to attach pork to it, making the bill more expensive than it would have been otherwise, since Democratic leaders needed Republican votes to override the veto. Bush claimed that it was too generous for already wealthy farmers who did not truly need the extra financial assistance. Others argued that the bill should include more subsidies for renewable energy. In negotiations between Congressional legislators and the White House, President Bush indicated that the cap on payments to anyone making over $750,000 per year was still too high, and that if the cap were lowered to anyone making over $200,000, he would support the bill.\n\nFood experts, international aid groups, and the White House suggested that the bill did not focus enough on the globally growing food crisis around the world. Some of the money could have been used to feed poor children who were suffering in other countries but instead farmers in the United States, whom the bill was supposedly designed to assist, were largely flourishing. Only about one percent of the bill's total cost gwas sent abroad to provide a relatively small amount of food relief to those in need. International aid groups criticized farm bills in the United States for ignoring poor farmers in developing countries by causing them to compete with wealthy, taxpaying American farmers. Billions of dollars in subsidies were distributed to these farmers no matter how much they grow, the groups said, and lawmakers failed to help the people in need.\n\nA major factor and controversial issue involved in the act included the amount of payments the farmers were receiving. Many people who qualified to receive funding were taking advantage of this opportunity by taking steps to substantially increase the funds they were gaining. This included getting access to more land thus leading to more government funds or even using a spouse to potentially be eligible for more payments. Spouses were automatically credited for being married to an actively engaged farmer which allowed for more benefits. So in order to prevent this, certain laws were enacted within the act that reduced this problem so that large operations would be less likely to try and game the system and collect high amounts of direct payments.\n\nOne of the limits that was imposed under the Farm Bill's laws was that farms are not eligible if non-farm income exceeds $500,000 or if gross farm income is over $750,000 over a three-year period. Direct and Counter-Cyclical Program limits are the same as what they were in the 2002 Farm Bill. Payments are limited to $40,000 for Direct Payments and for Counter-Cyclical Payments to $65,000 per entity. Also, a limit of $65,000 per individual is placed under ACRE payments. The only real requirement for being able to receive these program payments is to be actively engaged in farming, contributing capital, land, or machinery, and providing labor/management.\n\nThe bill created the National Institute of Food and Agriculture (NIFA) which consolidated federal sector agricultural research. In addition the bill mandated:\n\n"}
{"id": "27897755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27897755", "title": "Garant", "text": "Garant\n\nGARANT () is a complex of services based on a legal information resource developed by the «Garant-Service-Universitet» Scientific-Production Enterprise Limited Liability Company, the first large-scale commercial legal information system in Russia (since 1990) containing the legislation of the Russian Federation (also in the English language).\n\nGARANT is a comprehensive, fully cross-referenced legal information resource, with the following elements:\n\nThe GARANT System – a legal information database, updated daily, providing for quick and precise searches, complex analysis of a legal situation, and keeping abreast of changes in legislation in an online format.\n\nPRIME – a daily individualised information feed that contains legal news and hundreds of thousands of commentaries on legal acts and court practice, and that enables creating overviews of changes in the legislation.\n\nLegal Consulting – access to a unique body of knowledge of experts in legal consulting: to solutions of tens of thousands of real practical situations, with the option of receiving individual written consultations.\n\nAll-Russia Satellite Online-Seminars – interactive participation in seminars given by authoritative specialists in Moscow broadcast to other towns and cities throughout Russia, incorporating the possibility of getting answers to questions asked through the system.\n\nElectronic Express – a service providing electronic digital signatures for participation in electronic trading in state and municipal procurement initiatives.\n\nGarant Vesti [Garant News] – a colour publication succinctly informing users about the most important changes in the legislation, interesting court practice, new developments in the field of legal information provision, and effective applications of work with legal information.\n\nProfessional Journals – «Aktualnaya Bukhgalteria» [«Current Bookkeeping»]: pertinent, reliable information for bookkeepers; and «Zakonadatelstvo» [«Legislation»]: authoritative legal analysis for lawyers.\n\nConsultations on Efficient Use of the System – assistance from specialists, plus clearly arranged resource materials allowing for quick and easy retrieval and analysis of information; professional-user certificates also obtainable.\n\nThe WWW.GARANT.RU Legal Portal – a source of timely legal information: legislation news, just-released documents, consultations, internet conferences with senior state officials, and dialogue on the popular trade forum.\n\nService – assistance in solving technical questions on working with the GARANT legal information resource, a hot-line, and dedicated personal managers.\n\nAt present the GARANT system contains more than 30 million documents: acts of official bodies (including all laws, Presidential decrees, codes, rules and regulations), court practice materials, constantly updated interactive encyclopedias, a library of trade press articles and books and commentaries on the legislation, official bookkeeping and statistical accounting forms, economic and legal terms (in explanatory dictionaries in six European languages), economic and reference information (business enquiries, bookkeeping calendar, contact details of official bodies, etc.). The system presents the legislation of all 85 regions of the Russian Federation. Also included is a directory of medicines and medicine manufacturers.\n\nThe GARANT system is primarily intended for bookkeepers and accountants, lawyers, managers, banking employees, and other specialists (including foreign ones) whose job duties include solving issues of a legal character. New documents appear in the electronic GARANT Legal Enquiry System (L.E.S.) database under direct contracts with both federal and regional governmental bodies. Every day the GARANT L.E.S. gets updated with approximately ten thousand documents («GARANT-Maximum. All Russia»). The electronic texts correspond exactly to the official texts, and undergo careful legal processing: the respective commentaries, references, schemes and hypertext links are all applied accurately and consistently.\n\nThe GARANT L.E.S. provides for different types of information searches. The main type of search is the «Basic Search», of one line, created specially for working with legal information.\n\nWith an internet connection available, the «Legal Information Online» function allows one to get access (from the shell of the system) to the services «Legal Information Support Hotline» and «Legal Consulting» (where a user sends in a question and gets an answer back from an expert directly in the system). The «Time Machine» function enables searching for texts of documents that were in effect at a particular moment in time in the past. The «Document Checking» function allows to track histories of changes in documents. The «Similar Documents» function lets one instantly create a list of documents (court practice, questions and answers) that have a theme similar to a given document. The «Version Comparison» function compares two versions of a document (for example, a version with the latest amendments with a previous version). The «News Online» function allows loading online (within the system shell) legal news and other information. The «Online Meeting» function provides users of the network version to exchange instant messages (like with internet messengers) that can incorporate hypertext links and documents in the system.\n\nThe system is fully integrated with the internet; there is a free-of-charge internet version containing the main regulatory documents of Russia and a fuller internet version, accessible on a commercial basis.\n\n«Mobile GARANT Online» gives access to the legal information system on a convenient flash memory stick. With an internet connection available this allows working with legal information that is/was current at a given moment in time (a document applicability check function, and also the possibility of working with the internet version of the system).\n\nThe Higher Patent Chamber of the Federal Service for Intellectual Property, Patents and Trademarks (Rospatent) has recognized GARANT as a well-known trademark in the Russian Federation since January 1, 1998.\n\nThe quality management system of the developer complies with the ISO 9001-2008 standard.\n\nDelivery and installation of the GARANT legal information resource are handled by more than 250 partner organisations in 500 towns and cities of Russia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27492420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27492420", "title": "Glass tax", "text": "Glass tax\n\nThe glass tax was introduced in Great Britain in 1746, during the reign of King George II. Glass was at that time sold by weight, and manufacturers responded by producing smaller, more highly decorated objects, often with hollow stems, known today as \"Excise glasses\". In 1780, the government granted Ireland free trade in glass without taxation, resulting in the establishment of glassworks in Cork and Waterford. In 1825, the tax in Ireland was restored, and gradually the industry declined, until the glass tax was abolished by Sir Robert Peel's government in 1845.\n\nA contemporary account in the medical journal \"The Lancet\" described the glass tax as an \"absurd impost on light\":\n\n"}
{"id": "34350466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34350466", "title": "Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church &amp; School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission", "text": "Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church &amp; School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission\n\nHosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 565 U.S. 171 (2012), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court unanimously ruled that federal discrimination laws do not apply to religious organizations' selection of religious leaders.\n\nIn 1999, Cheryl Perich started teaching at Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church and School in Redford, Michigan. While Perich led students in prayer and taught a religion class several days a week, her job primarily consisted of teaching grade school art, science, social studies and music. In 2004, Perich left on disability and was diagnosed with narcolepsy. In 2005, after being cleared by her doctors to go back to work, the school told her that they already hired someone else. Perich then threatened to file suit, and so the school promptly fired her for \"insubordination and disruptive behavior\". Perich sued for unlawful dismissal under the Federal Americans with Disabilities Act.\n\nAll nine Supreme Court justices agreed with the decision written by Chief Justice John Roberts that \"the Establishment Clause prevents the Government from appointing ministers, and the Free Exercise Clause prevents it from interfering with the freedom of religious groups to select their own.\" Moreover, because the respondent in this case was a minister within the meaning of the ministerial exception, the First Amendment requires dismissal of her employment discrimination suit against her religious employer. The decision explicitly left open the question of whether religious organizations could be sued for other reasons with the sentence \"We express no view on whether the exception bars other types of suits, including actions by employees alleging breach of contract or tortious conduct.\"\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas wrote a concurrence, in which he eschewed the use of any specific test for determining who qualifies as a minister, writing that he would like to \"defer to a religious organization's good-faith understanding of who qualifies as a minister\".\n\nJustice Samuel Alito wrote a concurring opinion, which Elena Kagan joined, stating that the word \"minister\" used in the decision should extend to similar titles for other religions such as rabbi for Judaism or imam in Islam.\n\nThe Family Research Council expressed support for the decision. In a press release, a spokesperson for the organization stated: \"We are pleased that the Supreme Court rejected the Obama administration's profoundly troubling claim of power over churches, and glad to see that the Supreme Court has stayed out of the Lutheran Church's affairs and allowed its internal rules as a body of believers to stand.\" (While FRC criticized the \"Obama Administration\", President Obama actually made no comment on the case, which was one the government began under the George W. Bush Administration. However, the Obama Administration, namely the Justice department, did in fact file an opposition brief that asserted the ministerial exemption should be severely limited). Five days following the decision, Mitt Romney praised the decision saying, \"We are very fortunate [to have people] who are willing to stand up for religious tolerance and religious liberty and the First Amendment of this Constitution in this country.\"\n\nIn a January 12, 2012, editorial, the \"New York Times\" concluded that the decision gave \"sweeping deference to churches\" which \"does not serve [churches] or society wisely\":\n\nAlthough the court does not provide much guidance on how to proceed in future lawsuits against churches as employers, the ruling has broad sweep. It abandons the court's longtime practice of balancing the interest in the free exercise of religion against important government interests, like protection against workplace bias or retaliation. With a balancing test, courts consider whether a general law, if applied to a religious institution, would inhibit its freedom more broadly than justified and, in those circumstances, courts could exempt the church.\n\nIn her brief, Ms. Perich warned that expanding the ministerial exception to include workers like her would allow a religious organization, for example, to retaliate against a teacher for reporting sexual abuse of a student to the government.\n\nSome religious organizations have attempted to use this ruling to exempt themselves from anti-discrimination laws they apply to non-ministerial employees, simply by adding \"minister\" to their title. In 2014, the Archdiocese of Cincinnati ordered its 2,000 teachers regardless of religion to sign a \"detailed morality clause\" that critics say focuses on \"pelvic issues.\" The new contracts forbids teachers from living together, having sex outside of marriage, using in-vitro fertilization or surrogacy, exhibiting a gay lifestyle or any speech expressing support for these things.\n\n"}
{"id": "42431493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42431493", "title": "Human rights and development", "text": "Human rights and development\n\nHuman rights and development aims converge in many instances and are beneficial only to the government and not the people although there can be conflict between their different approaches. Today, a human rights-based approach is viewed by many as essential to achieving development goals. Historically, the \"minority clauses\" guaranteeing civil and political rights and religious and cultural toleration to minorities were significant acts emerging from the peace process of World War I relating to a peoples rights to self-determination. Overseen by the League of Nations Council the process allowed petitions from individuals and was monitored under the jurisdiction of the Permanent Court of International Justice. The 'clauses' are an important early signpost in both the human rights and development histories.\n\nThe initial impetus of the current human rights legal regime and movement was in reaction to the Nazi atrocities of World War II. Human Rights are importantly referred to in the United Nations Charter in both the Preamble and under Article 1 though only sparingly. The preamble of the UN Charter reaffirms \"faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women\". Article 2(4) however prohibits the use of force and has ever since be used to block humanitarian actions though Chapter VII provides for Security Council enforcement measures.\n\nThe Charter established the Economic and Social council which set up the UN Human Rights Commission now the United Nations Human Rights Council. Chapter VI of the Charter entitled International Economic and Social Cooperation provides Article 55 (c) the \"universal respect for, and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion\". Article 56 requires States to take joint and separate actions in cooperation with the UN to achieve their mutual aims. Human rights are inherent in the progress of economic social and cultural goals and therefore to Human Development as such.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 is not binding law and reflects an unwillingness of Allied powers to codify an International Bill of Rights where fears that colonial interests would be negatively affected were still influential. Human rights are viewed as universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. René Cassin one of the architects of the declaration conceived the rights as divided into 4 pillars supporting the roof a temple, \"dignity, liberty, equality, and brotherhood\". Articles 1 & 2 comprising the first pillar relates to human 'dignity' shared by all individuals regardless of religion, creed, ethnicity, religion, or sex. Articles 100-19 the second pillar invokes first-generation rights civil 'liberties' fought for during the Enlightenment. Articles 20-26 the third pillar are second-generation rights, relating to political, social and economic equity, championed during the Industrial Revolution. Articles 27-28 the fourth pillar are third-generation rights associated with community and national solidarity advocated from the late 19th. These pillars support the roof of the temple Articles 29-30 representing the conditions in society under which the rights of individuals can be realized\n\nCertain civil and political rights converging with development aims include Article 2 which entitles everyone to rights with distinction as to race, colour, sex, or language; Article 3 the rights to life, liberty and security of person; Article 8 the right to effective remedy and Article 9 the right to an independent tribunal; Article 19 entails freedom of expression and Article 20 freedom of peaceful assembly; Article 21 is the right to participate in government and Article 26 provides rights to education.\n\nArticle 28 importantly signifies ' Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this declaration can be fully realized. The right calls for enforcement mechanisms and echoes Chapter VII of the UN Charter permitting security council intervention for human rights violations on a scale that threatens world peace. The UN Charter allows for a limit to state sovereignty were Human Rights are threatened. Two critiques of the declaration are that it did not make political rights dependent on multi-party democracy and there is a lack of protection for ethnic minorities, protecting individual rights do not necessarily protect group rights.\n\nThe nexus between grave human rights violations and international security is significant as atrocities within a sovereign state are of concern to international law, when they upset neighbouring states in a manner disturbing to world peace. Article 55 of the Charter states \"promotion of the respect for human rights helps create conditions of stability\" and \"recognition of ... equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation ... of peace in the world\". Taken together the United Nations Charter and Universal Declaration of Human Rights provide a legal mechanism which may challenge the sovereign rights of States to oppress people within their own jurisdiction\n\nThe Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action (VDPA) reaffirms the right to development under part 1, paragraph 10 and was adopted by consensus at the World Conference on Human Rights1993. The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights was created by the declaration and endorsed by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) under resolution 48/121.\n\nThe Rio Declaration on Environment and Development sought solutions to poverty, the growing gap between industrialized and developing countries and environmental problems. All elements were accorded equal weight and the declaration defined the rights and obligations of nations in 27 principles and recognizes \"the polluter pays\" as its guiding tenet.\n\nThe Action 2 Plan of Action and work plan stems from the UN Secretary General report Strengthening of the United Nations; An Agenda for Further Change. Integrating human rights into humanitarian, development and peace keeping work throughout the UN system. The plan introduces the UN Common Learning Package and a Human Rights-Based Approach (HRBA) which builds on the experience of all agencies.\n\nThe emphasis of the HRBA is based on common understanding and requires that 1) all programmes of development co-operation, policies and technical assistance should further the realisation of human rights as laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments; 2) human rights standards contained in, and principles derived from, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other international human rights instruments guide all development cooperation and programming in all sectors and in all phases of the programming process and 3) development cooperation contributes to the development of the capacities of 'duty-bearers' to meet their obligations and/or of 'rights-holders' to claim their rights.\n\nThe major human rights principles guiding the programme are regarded as universality and inalienability; indivisibility; interdependence and interrelatedness; non-discrimination and equality; participation and inclusion; accountability and the rule of law.\n\nThe Declaration on the Right to Development was proclaimed by the UNGA under resolution 41/128 in 1986. with only the United States voting against the resolution and eight absentions. The United Nations recognizes no hierarchy of rights, and all human rights are equal and interdependent, the right to development then is not an umbrella right that encompasses or trumps other rights nor is it a right with the status of a mere political aspiration.\n\nThe Right to development is regarded as an inalienable human right which all peoples are entitled to participate in, contribute to, and enjoy economic, social, cultural and political development. The right includes 1) people-centred development, identifying \"the human person\" as the central subject, participant and beneficiary of development; 2) a human rights-based approach specifically requiring that development is to be carried out in a manner \"in which all human rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized\"; 3) participation, calling for the \"active, free and meaningful participation\" of people in development; 4) equity, underlining the need for \"the fair distribution of the benefits\" of development; 5) non-discrimination, permitting \"no distinction as to race, sex, language or religion\"; and 6) self-determination, the declaration integrates self-determination, including full sovereignty over natural resources, as a constituent element of the right to development.\n\nThe right is a third generation right viewed as a group right such that it is owed to communities as opposed to an individual right applying to individuals \"It is a people, not an individual, that is entitled to the right to self-determination and to national and global development\" One obstacle to the right is in the difficult process of defining 'people' for the purposes of self- determination. Additionally, most developing states voice concerns about the negative impacts of aspects of international trade, unequal access to technology and crushing debt burden and hope to create binding obligations to facilitate development as a way of improving governance and the rule of law. The right to development embodies three additional attributes which clarify its meaning and specify how it may reduce poverty 1) The first is a holistic approach which integrates human rights into the process 2) an enabling environment offers fairer terms in the economic relations for developing countries and 3) the concept of social justice and equity involves the participation of the people of countries involved and a fair distribution of developmental benefits with special attention given to marginalised and vulnerable members of the population.\n\nThe right was first recognised in 1981 under Article 22 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights and subsequently in the Arab Charter on Human Rights. It is now recognised in numerous international instruments, with the Rio Declaration asserting under principle 1 \"Human beings are at the centre of concerns for sustainable development, they are entitled to a healthy and productive life in harmony with nature\". Other instruments include the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action the United Nations Millennium Declaration, the 2002 Monterrey Consensus, the 2005 World Summit and the 2007 Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.\n\nArticle 3 provides that \"States have the primary responsibility for the creation of national and international conditions favourable to the realization of the right to development\" and this encompasses three main levels 1) States acting collectively in global and regional partnerships; 2) States acting individually as they adopt and implement policies that affect persons not strictly within their jurisdiction and 3) States acting individually as they formulate national development policies and programmes affecting persons within their jurisdiction.\n\nArticle 6 importantly provides \"States should undertake, at the national level, all necessary measures for the realization of the right to development, echoing Article 2.1 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) which states that \"each State Party to the present Covenant undertakes to take steps, individually and through international assistance and co-operation, especially economic and technical, to the maximum of its available resources. Furthermore, the Maastricht Guidelines on violations of economic, social and cultural rights provides that a state is in violation of the Covenant if it fails to allocate the maximum of its available resources to realizing human rights.\n\nThe Intergovermental Working Group on the Right to Development was established in 1998 and meets once a year reporting to the Human Rights Council (HRC) and the General Assembly. Its mandate is to globally (a) monitor and review progress made in the promotion and implementation of the right to development as elaborated in the Declaration, providing recommendations and analyzing obstacles to its full enjoyment; (b) to review reports and other information submitted by States, United Nations agencies, relevant international and non-governmental organizations, on the relationship between their activities and the right to development; and (c) to present a report to the HRC including advice to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)\n\nThe mandate of the High Commissioner (HC) and the OHCHR as stated in resolution 48/141 4 (c) seeks \"to promote and protect the realization of the right to development and to enhance support from relevant bodies of the UN system for this purpose.\" The right to development is highlighted in the General Assembly and the HRC which both request the UN Secretary-General and the HC to report annually on progress in the implementation of the right to development including activities aimed at strengthening the global partnership for development between Member States, development agencies and international development, financial and trade institutions.\n\nThe U.N. Commission on Human Rights adopted by consensus a resolution on the Right to Development 1998/24 .\" Effects on the full enjoyment of human rights of the economic adjustment policies arising from foreign debt and, in particular, on the implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development\". The Commission recommended a follow up mechanism consisting of an open ended working group (OEWG) and an Independent Expert, Arjun Kumar Sengupta and Indian economist who was selected to the post . The purpose of the working group was to monitor and review the progress of the Independent Expert and report back to the Commission. The Independent Expert presented to the working group at each of its sessions a study on the current state of progress in the implementation of the right to development.\n\nPoverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP) were first introduced in 1999 as a condition of eligibility for debt relief among Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC). The rationale of the process was to promote national and local 'ownership' of macroeconomic policies ensuring that they were sufficiently adapted to relieving poverty in the poorest countries. The process represents an embrace of the values of participation and transparency in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, and thus has the potential to shape the content of these policies in order to meet the needs of the poor.\n\n(PRSP's) are prepared by member countries in a participatory process with domestic stakeholders and development partners like the World Bank or International Monetary Fund. These are updated every three years with progress reports describing the country's macroeconomic, structural and social policies and programs over a three-year or longer period to promote growth and reduce poverty. Interim PRSPs (I-PRSPs) summarize the current knowledge and analysis of a country's poverty situation, describe the existing poverty reduction strategy, and lay out the process for producing a fully developed PRSP in a participatory fashion.\n\nCountry documents, along with the accompanying IMF/World Bank Joint Staff Assessments (JSAs), are available on their websites by agreement with the member country as a service to users of the IMF and World Bank websites. The introduction of PRSPs was a recognition by the IMF and the World Bank of the importance of country ownership of reform programs as well as the need for a greater focus on poverty reduction. PRSPs aim to provide the crucial link between national public actions, donor support, and the development outcomes needed to meet the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), which are centered on halving poverty between 1990 and 2015. PRSPs guide policies associated concessional lending as well as debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative.\n\nFive core principles underlie the approach. Poverty reduction strategies should be 1) country-driven, promoting national ownership of strategies through broad-based participation of civil society; 2) result-oriented and focused on outcomes that will benefit the poor; 3) comprehensive in recognizing the multidimensional nature of poverty; 4) partnership-oriented, involving coordinated participation of development partners (government, domestic stakeholders, and external donors); and 5) based on a long-term perspective for poverty reduction.\n\nIn 2001 The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights commissioned the 2001 guidelines for the integration of human rights into poverty reduction Strategies which were further developed in the 2005 guidelines The Commissioner in a concept note also states that the human rights framework is \"a useful tool strengthening the accountability and equity dimensions of the Poverty Reductions Strategies. In 2008 specific strategies were introduced in regards to Poverty Reduction and Health that affirmed the place of Human Rights in the achievement of the Millennium goals.\n\nIn September 2000, world leaders made commitments in the Millennium Declaration UN resolution 55/2 on topics that included peace, security, human rights, the environment and development targets which were later configured into the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). These goals are sets of development targets that center on halving poverty and improving the welfare of the world's poorest by 2015. The IMF contributes to the goals through advice, technical assistance, lending to countries and mobilizing donor support.\n\nThe Millennium Declaration considers six fundamental values necessary for international relations 1) freedom to raise children in dignity, freedom from hunger and from the fear of violence, oppression and injustice, including democratic and participatory governance based on the will of the people. 2) equality, no individual or nation must be denied the opportunity to benefit from development. 3) solidarity, global inequities must be managed to distribute costs and burdens fairly in accordance with the principles of equity and social justice, while those who benefit least deserve help from those who benefit most. 4) tolerance, differences within and between societies should not be feared or repressed, but cherished as a precious asset of humanity, while cultures of peace and dialogue among all civilizations should be promoted. 5) Respect for nature. Prudence must be shown in the management of all living species and natural resources, through sustainable development and unsustainable patterns of production and consumption must be changed in the interest of the future welfare of our descendants and 6) shared responsibility, responsibility for managing worldwide economic and social development, as well as threats to international peace and security, must be shared among the nations of the world and should be exercised multilaterally.\n\nHuman rights have played a limited role in influencing MDG planning, though there are strong similarities between them and the content of the MDGs which resemble many economic and social rights. MDGs provide benchmarks for economic and social rights, while human rights strategies offer enhanced legitimacy, equity and sustainability to the MDG policies. The Millennium Declaration substantially refers to human rights and leaders have committed themselves to respecting recognized human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the right to development. Economic, social and cultural rights, the rights of women, migrant, minorities, and participation are all emphasized in the declaration yet the pursuit of the MDGs has been in isolation from it. MDG targets are not sufficiently focused on inequalities within a country and human rights instruments require a minimum core level of economic, social and cultural rights to be immediately realized for all and for all discrimination in the exercise of rights to be eliminated. Inequalities within countries lead to violent conflict and countries focus on the relatively well-off among the poor in order to reach a particular MDG target.\n\nThe MDGs are accompanied by 18 targets measured by 60 indicators though the relationship between the goals, targets and indicators is not always clear. A range of activities are promoted as a means of achieving the MDGs such as tailoring the MDGs to the regional, national and local context and undertaking national needs assessments and monitoring progress through yearly MDG reports.\n\nNon-State actors also carry human rights responsibilities with at least a minimum duty of not interfering with human rights such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises provides a complaint system for violations by companies. A specific critique of MDGs is that they place emphasis on the mobilization of financial resources and technical solutions, but less on transforming power relations that are partially responsible for levels of poverty. The World Bank has observed that in many situations the real barriers to progress on the MDGs are social and political. The realization of human rights therefore may be a precondition to fulfilling development goals\n\nThe present global institutional order is foreseeably associated with avoidable severe poverty and its impositions may constitute an ongoing human rights violation. There are many measures of poverty and it is now regarded that poverty is more than the measure of a low income. Amartya Sen argues that individual physical characteristics, environmental and social conditions as well as behavioural expectations all play a role. The UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights defines poverty as \"human conditions characterised by chronic deprivation of resources capabilities, choices, security and power necessary for the enjoyment of an adequate standard of living\"\n\nJeffrey Sachs place poverty in an historical trajectory with the ending of slavery, colonialism, segregation and apartheid but do not link these human rights movements to current causes of poverty elimination. Policy economists discuss minimum standards, transparency, and participation unrelated to the human rights framework where poverty is seen to increases social wastage distorting economic and service delivery outcomes. Joseph Stiglitz in \"Making Globalization Work\" refers to a gap between economic and political globalization and that a growth oriented economic analysis disregarding the impact of income on the realization of rights such as health or education and focusing instead on making choices in a world of limited resources. There is debate whether attention to civil and political rights makes way for economic development or whether economic growth is more likely to create institutional and political development. The G-20 2005 Statement on Global Development Issues does not mention human rights or human development and good governance is referred to only in relation to economic policy. In the 2009 the Global Plan for Recovery and Reform also fails to mention human rights or human development. The ingrained philosophy is a world economy based on market principles and effective regulation.\n\nA strand of economics embraces human rights language such as the International Development Ethics Association who apply a normative approach to development theories. The Mérida Declaration provides \"the absolute respect for the dignity of the human person regardless of gender, ethnic group social class, religion age or nationality. The UN Development Programme UNDP which is promoted by the Human Development and Capability Association (HDCA) is open to a human rights perspective as stated in the Human Development Report of 2001 \"human development and human rights are mutually reinforcing helping to secure the well-being and dignity of all people\". The Economic and Social Council put out a statement in May 2001 specifically addressing poverty as a human right concern and Special Rapporteur Mohammed Habib Cherif reported to the Sub Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights at its 58th session now the Advisory Committee on Human Rights and extreme Poverty. Human rights under these development perspectives revolve around the concept of freedom with expanding choice. The World Conference on Human Rights the Vienna Declaration confirmed that extreme poverty and social exclusion constitute a violation of human dignity and urgent steps are necessary to achieve better knowledge of extreme poverty and its causes.\n\nThe first MDG is to Eradicate Extreme Poverty and Hunger. Economic growth is regarded as the principal mechanism to achieve this goal while a human rights approach requires a focus on poor growth and a consideration of groups seeking development paths other than the conventional free market, export-driven model. The targets here are 1) To halve, between by 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 a day comparable to the \"Right to adequate standard of living\"; 2) to achieve full employment and decent work for all is comparable to the \"Right to work\" and 3) to halve by 2015 the proportion of people who suffer from hunger, comparable to the \"Right to food\", and correspondingly rights to life and health.\n\nSouth-eastern Asia is the first developing region to reach the hunger reduction target ahead of 2015. Undernourished people in the total population of the region decreased from 29.6% in 1990-1992 to 10.9% in 2010-2012. However, globally the slowing of growth brings continual job losses. Unemployment has increased by 28 million since 2007, and an estimated 39 million people have dropped out of the labour market, leaving 67 million people without jobs as a result of the global financial crisis. Though the number of workers living with their families on less than $1.25 a day has declined dramatically over the past decade by 294 million, new estimates show that 60.9% of workers in the developing world still live on less than $4 a day.\n\nIn Yemen the World Food Programme (WFP) Food For Girls Education Programme has been tackling hunger and enrolment challenges, where more than 60% of primary school children not in schools are girls. Families who send their girls to school are eligible to receive an annual ration of wheat and vegetable oil. Since 2010 the programme has reached almost 200,000 girls. Whilst in India the UNDP is supporting the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Program, promoting laws passed in 2005 which guarantee the right to a minimum of 100 days of paid work a year for landless labourers and marginal farmers. The scheme now provides 50 days work a year to around 50 million households where almost half of the beneficiaries are women.\n\nThe Zero Hunger Challenge another UN initiative with numerous NGO partners has as it aims 1) 100% access to adequate food all year round; 2) zero stunted children less than 2 years old; 3) where all food systems are sustainable; 4) a 100% increase in smallholder productivity and income; and 5) a zero loss or waste of food.\n\nVarun Gauri argues that economic and social rights, such as the right to health care or education, may be understood not as legal instruments for individuals, but as duties for governments and international agencies such that everyone bears some responsibility for their fulfillment. Economists accept that the realization of high standards of health and education are conducive to economic growth. The human rights approach regards transparency and empowerment as ends in themselves, while an economic approach sees them as instrumental to a welfare outcome.\n\nThe second MDG is to Achieve Universal Primary Education. The target is to ensure that by 2015, children everywhere will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling comparable to the \"Right to education\", the goal however ignores the requirement of \"free primary education\" as conceived by the human right. \nEven after 4 years of primary schooling, as many as 250 million children cannot read and write undermining the basis for all future learning. Going to school is not enough and improving actual learning is critical. Early school leaving is a major factor, 137 million children entered first grade in 2011, with 34 million likely to leave before reaching the last grade, an early leaving rate of 25%, the same as in 2000. Poverty, gender and residential location are key factors keeping children out of school. Children from the poorest households are three times more likely to be out of school than children from the richest households. Globally 123 million youth aged 15 to 24 lack basic reading and writing skills whilst 61% of them are young women.\n\nPositive developments have occurred in Afghanistan and Bangladesh where the Let Us Learn initiative has overcome barriers to education. UNICEF enrolled 3,917 five-year-olds in school programmes, including 153 disabled children from the most disadvantaged region of rural Bangladesh, 60% of which were girls. In Afghanistan 9,339 children and youth participated in community based learning programmes with 84% being girls. UNICEF and partners responded to 286 humanitarian crises in 79 countries in 2012 and helped some 3.56 million children and adolescents gain access to formal and non formal basic education.\n\nThe Secretary-General's Global Education First initiative (GEFI) has a commitment with companies and private foundations making pledges of over $1.5 billion ensuring that all children have a quality, relevant and transformative education, whilst the Global Partnership for Education (GPE) helped more than 19 million children go to school since 2003. Leading donors promised an initial $1.5 billion over three years, with the fund aiming to secure another 25 million children in school as of 2014.\n\nThe third MDG is to promote gender equality and empower women. Eliminating gender inequality is supported by international human rights instruments, such as the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The goal sets women's empowerment as the objective but the related target is narrowly concerned with education. Eliminating gender disparity in primary and secondary education by 2015 is narrowly conceived but comparable to Women's Right to equality. Of note the share of women employed outside of agriculture rose to 40% in 2013 but only by 20% in Southern Asia, Western Asia and Northern Africa while the global share of women in parliament continues to rise and reached 20% in 2012.\n\nGender gaps in access to education have narrowed but inequalities remain in all levels of education, girls face barriers to schooling, particularly in Northern Africa, sub-Saharan Africa and Western Asia. Access to secondary and university education remains unequal with disparities at universities the most extreme. In Southern Asia, 77 girls per 100 boys are enrolled in tertiary education while in sub-Saharan Africa the gender gap in enrolment has widened from 66 girls per 100 boys in 2000 to 61 girls per 100 boys in 2011. Poverty is the main cause of unequal access to education with women and girls in many parts of the world forced to spend many hours fetching water and girls often do not attend school because of a lack of adequate sanitation facilities. Child marriage and violence against girls are also significant barriers to education. Women still enter the labour market on an unequal basis to men, even after accounting for educational background and skills. Women are often relegated to vulnerable forms of employment, with little or no financial security or social benefits.\n\nRegarding women's rights and land empowerment, Kerry Rittich notes that programmes which promote the formal real property rights of women, in place of customary laws or other informal mechanisms, have the potential to both improve and retard women's access to land. The programmes promoting property rights tend to go together with measures to formalize, commodify, and individualize landholdings, and that these three processes often intensify the dispossession of women who may have had access to land under informal arrangements or customary law. The promotion of property rights from an economic perspective may well undermine the social rights of women in developing countries. Legal conceptions of property, treat property not as a mere resource but as a set of relations between individuals and groups. This approach may highlight otherwise unforeseen distributive consequences for women, moving from an informal property regime to a formalized and individualized one.\n\nMason and Carlsson note that, unless gender inequality in land holding is taken into account when implementing land tenure reforms, improved land tenure security may diminish women's land holdings. A variety of factors can lead to this result, including discriminatory inheritance laws, the application of an androcentric definition of 'the head of household', and inequalities in women's capacity to participate in the market for land. Costa Rica and Colombia land reforms were undertaken in a way that improved women's ownership of land. Women who own the land they work have greater incentives to raise their labour productivity, and women who earn more income are more likely than men to invest in the household and in their children's education and nutrition stressing the importance of applying a human rights lens such that norms of non-discrimination and equal property rights are required when implementing economic reforms.\n\nThe fourth MDG is to reduce child mortality. A human rights approach emphasizes the State's obligations regarding the availability of functioning health systems and making sure that all groups can effectively access them by addressing obstacles like discrimination. The target here is the reduction of two-thirds of the mortality rate of children under five by 2015 comparable to the \"Right to life\". Around 17,000 fewer children are dying each day, yet 6.6 million children under five died in 2012, mostly from preventable diseases. In sub-Saharan Africa, one in ten children dies before the age five.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia accounted for 5.3 million 81% of the 6.6 million deaths The main killers are pneumonia, prenatal and intrapartum complications, diarrhoea and malaria. The first month, particularly the first 24 hours, are the most dangerous in a child's life. Newborns now account for almost half 44% of under-five deaths and undernutrition contributes to 45% of all under-five deaths. Over the past two decades in Bangladesh UNICEF has supported local efforts training community health-care workers leading to a decline in maternal and child mortality. Infant mortality declined from 100 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 33 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2012. In the same period under five mortality dropped by 72% from 144 deaths per 1,000 births in 1990 to 41 deaths per 1000 births in 2012.\n\nThe development goal is related to \"Child Labour\". Rights advocates regard child labour as a violation to numerous rights of a child such that it must be eradicated to ensure children's human rights are ends themselves while development economics views child labour as an inter-generational loss of potential income. Children suffer diminished human capital where reductions in health and education affect their future productivity. The International Labour Organization's (ILO's) estimates that current levels of child labour will result in an income foregone of $5 trillion between 2000 and 2020. Currently 23% of the world's children aged between 5 and 17 are engaged in some form of work. Betcherman demonstrates the important insights that economic analysis can provide in understanding how best to reduce child labour. Factors contributing to child labour can be seen in terms of incentives that encourage child work, constraints that compel children to work, and decisions that may not be made in the best interests of the children. Other factors must also be considered, direct (books, transport) and indirect (poor quality, loss of household labour) costs of education leading parents to regard education as not providing sufficient immediate returns to the household or child.\n\nElizabeth Gibbons, Friedrich Huebler, and Edilberto Loaiza consider how, at the level of statistical analysis, the application of the human rights principle of non-discrimination can affect our understanding of child labour. Existing methods of calculating the extent of child labour under report the degree of work done by girls, because the measures exclude household chores. By failing to consider 'female work' within the definition of child labour, the impact of child work on the educational and health attainment of girls is made invisible. Gibbons, Huebler, and Loaiza also investigate some factors affecting school attendance; labour and household poverty are generally constraints on attendance but a mother's educational attainment correlates positively with school attendance, revealing the inter-generational payoff from investments in girls' education. Household wealth and the level of education of the primary caretaker also have a significant effect on educational attainment\n\nIn India the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act has led to the inclusion of a justiciable right to education in relation to children between the ages of 6 and 14 and provides an impetus to government to address critical problems in the provision of education. The idea of education as a 'fundamental right' focuses local political action and agitation among oppressed communities, who rely on the new constitutional provision as a way of pressing demands on local and regional government.\n\nThe fifth MDG is to improve maternal health. The target is to reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio and to achieve universal access to reproductive health by 2015 comparable to \"right to life and health\". Complications during pregnancy or childbirth are one of the leading causes of death for adolescent girls, 140 million women worldwide married or in civil union would like to delay or avoid pregnancy, but have no access to family planning. 47 million babies were delivered without skilled care in 2011.\n\nMaternal mortality is lower in countries where levels of contraceptive use and skilled attendance at birth are high. sub-Saharan Africa has the world's highest maternal mortality ratio with a contraceptive use of 25% and low levels of skilled attendance at birth. Education for girls is vital to reducing maternal mortality. The risk of maternal death is 2.7 times higher among women with no education, and 2 times higher among women with one to six years of education than for women with twelve plus years of education.\n\nSupported by UNFPA, Bangladesh is training midwives according to international midwifery standards. Hundreds of nurses have upgraded their knowledge with practical and theoretical training. In India more than two-thirds of maternal deaths occur in impoverished states due to the inability to get medical care in time. UNICEF and its partners are working to avoid these preventable maternal deaths through innovative schemes such as a conditional cash transfer programme for women who deliver in health facilities. In Sierra Leone a year after the launch of the Free Health Care 2010 initiative there was a 150% improvement in maternal complications managed in health facilities and a 61% reduction in the maternal mortality rate.\n\nLaunched at the UN MDG Summit in 2010, Every Woman Every Child mobilizes global action to save the lives of women and children and to improve their health and lives. Partners in this area include The GAVI Matching Fund for Immunization, a private-public initiative in which the UK Department for International Development and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation match contributions from the private sector to deliver critical vaccines to the lowest income countries. Furthermore, UN Women is implementing a joint programme in Central African Republic, Chad, Guinea, Haiti, Mali, Niger and Togo highlighting links between violence against women and maternal health, promoting funding and training midwives and health workers.\n\nThis sixth MDG is to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. The goal has three targets 1) to halt and reverse HIV/AIDS, 2) to achieve universal treatment for HIV/AIDs 3) to halt and reverse Malaria and other Diseases unquestionably reflecting the \"Right to health\". To date 2.3 million people are newly infected by HIV each year, with 1.6 million in sub-Saharan Africa. Tuberculosis (TB) mortality rate decreased 41% between 1991 and 2011, yet TB killed 1.4 million people in 2011, including 430,000 among people who were HIV-positive. Multidrug-resistant TB is a major global challenge and the rate of people accessing treatment is slow.\n\nIn 2008, reports appeared that malaria parasites in Cambodia and Thailand were resisting artemisinin, the most effective single drug to treat malaria. The countries launched a joint monitoring, prevention and treatment project in seven provinces along their shared border, with support from WHO. In Thailand more than 300 volunteer village malaria health workers were trained to provide free services to test for malaria and directly observe the treatment of patients. Use of a smart phone to capture data on patients and to monitor treatment has accelerated progress. An electronic malaria information system (e-MIS) uploaded on the health workers' mobile devices shows malaria volunteers where to find patients, the status of their treatment, the situation and trends. In Ethiopia a programme, supported by UNICEF and its partners, is preventing transmission of the virus from HIV-positive mothers to their children, a critical measure in ensuring an AIDS-free generation.\n\nThe Getting to Zero initiative has ten Southeast Asian nations committed to making Zero New HIV Infections, Zero Discrimination and Zero HIV- Related Deaths a reality.\n\nThe seventh MDG is to ensure environmental sustainability. A human rights approach to sustainable development emphasizes improving accountability systems, access to information on environmental issues, and the obligations of developed States to assist more vulnerable States, especially those affected by climate change.\n\nThere are four targets in this goal 1) To integrate principles of sustainable development into country policies and reverse the loss of environmental resources comparable to a \"Right to environmental health\"; 2) to reduce biodiversity loss by achieving a significant reduction in the rate of loss; 3) to halve by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe drinking water and basic sanitation comparable to the \"Right to water and sanitation\" and 4) to achieve, by 2020, a significant improvement in the lives of at least 100 million slum dwellers, comparable to the \"Right to adequate housing\".\n\nOf note a staggering 2.5 billion people still do not have access to toilets or latrines. Open defecation is a practice that poses serious health and environmental risks and stopping it is a key factor in the progress of sanitation goals. In 2013, UN Member States adopted the Sanitation for All resolution calling for increased efforts to improve access to proper sanitation. The number of slum dwellers however continues to grow, due to the fast pace of urbanization. The number of urban residents living in slum conditions was estimated at 863 million in 2012, compared to 650 million in 1990 and 760 million in 2000.\n\nSpecies are moving towards extinction at an ever-faster pace, and reduced biodiversity has serious consequences for the ecosystem services upon which all people depend. The largest loss of forests occurs in South America, around 3.6 million hectares per year from 2005 to 2010. Deforestation threatens global sustainability and the progress towards hunger and poverty reduction as forests provide food, water, wood, fuel and other services used by millions of the world's poorest. Brazil's northeast the most densely populated semi-arid region in the world has limited rainfall and cyclic drought forcing many of the 22 million residents to resort in illegal charcoal production, stripping the region of forests. A project by the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) to promote agro-ecology is showing farmers how to make a living from the land while conserving the environment.\n\nNearly one-third of marine fish stocks have been overexploited and the world's fisheries can no longer produce maximum sustainable yields due to continuing expansion of the fishing industry in many countries. The Montreal Protocol has led to a 98% reduction in the consumption of ozone-depleting substances since 1986 yet carbon dioxide emissions have increased by more than 46% since 1990.\n\nAfricas first transboundary biosphere reserves in Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger and Senegal are set up with funding from the Global Environment Facility, working with the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) and UNESCO in 2002. The reserves prevent desertification, testing sustainable economies and integrating local communities.\n\nThe development goal is strongly related to rights to \"Food, Water & Sanitation\". Defined as 'freedom from hunger', the right to food may be seen as a right to 'nutrition'. Nutrition is achieved not through food alone but with clean water, health-care, hygiene, and other inputs. In India despite constitutional protections of certain economic and social rights, including the right to food, and relatively stable democratic institutions, the underprivileged are excluded from actively participating in democratic politics, with the result that their aspirations and priorities are not reflected in public policy. The elitism of public policy further disempowers the poor by perpetuating their deprivations.\n\nThe state bearing primary responsibility for the right to food, there is also responsibilities on local communities and families to ensure basic nutrition is equally available to all members. Dre`ze accepts that this complicates the question of how the right to food can be enforced, additionally the right to food cannot be realized in isolation from other social and economic rights, such as the right to health.\n\nThe Rio +20 Conference took place in 2012 produced the Future We Want outcome document and created the UN High-level Political Forum on sustainable development which issued the Global Sustainable Development Report in 2013 its special theme the convergence of climate, land, energy, water and development issues. \"The unabated rise in the scale of materials consumption has increased global environmental, social and economic pressures. There is increasing evidence that we are jeopardizing several of the Earth's basic life support systems. Countries and people trapped in persistent poverty have probably suffered most from these impacts. And future generations will most likely face much greater challenges to meet their own needs\".\n\nThe eighth MDG is to . There are five targets 1) to develop predictable, non-discriminatory trading and financial system rules; 2) to address the needs of least developed countries, landlocked countries and small island developing states; 3) to deal comprehensively with developing countries' debt; 4) to provide access to affordable, essential drugs in developing countries in cooperation with pharmaceutical companies and 5) to make available benefits of new technologies. All targets are comparable to the \"Right to development\".\n\nOf note a total of 83% of least developed country exports enter developed countries duty-free. In the developing world, 31% of the population use the Internet, compared with 77% of the developed world. In 2012 ODA of $126 billion was 4% less than in 2011, which was 2% less than in 2010. This is the first time since 1996-1997 that ODA fell in two consecutive years, while essential medicines are available in only 57% of public sector facilities and 65% of private facilities in selected developing countries. There are over six billion mobile phone subscriptions worldwide and for every person who uses the Internet from a computer, two do so from a mobile device. In South Africa, over 25,000 students have improved their math skills through interactive exercises and quizzes on mobile phones through cooperation between government, Nokia and individual schools and teachers.\n\nThe MDG Gap Task Force was created by the UN Secretary-General in 2007 to improve monitoring of the global commitments contained in MDG 8 tracking existing commitments and identifying gaps and obstacles to fulfilment in development assistance, trade, debt sustainability, access to essential medicines and new technologies. The Task Force integrates more than 30 UN and other international agencies while The Integrated Implementation Framework records and monitors financial and policy commitments made by UN Member States and other international stakeholders.\n\nCriticism of the Millennium goals are that they should be transformative not technocratic. A key element in empowering people is that the response should be framed within a broader view of poverty that addresses root causes like power inequalities. Creating an inventory of public goods and services for distribution and seeking to fill deficits through foreign aid follows the history of development. A rights-based approach seeks to identify systemic obstacles that keep people from accessing opportunity. Genuine participation and access to information are the cornerstone of empowerment and instrumental gains occur when local knowledge and local preferences are used. Civil and political rights like the rights to vote, to freedom of expression and to freedom of association are crucial if excluded groups are to ensure that Governments focus on the MDGs with a human rights basis.\n\nHuman rights in relations to develop goals possess a number of different characteristics. Rights are universal, the birthright of all humans, and are focused on the inherent dignity and equal worth of all. Human rights cannot be waived or taken away and they impose obligations of action and omission. Rights are internationally guaranteed and legally protect individuals and groups. Rights have corresponding obligations on the duty-bearer traditionally the state, who must 1) respect human rights by refraining from interfering with them; 2) protect human rights by ensuring that private actors do not interfere with people's ability to exercise them (e.g. ensure that private schools enrol children from ethnic minorities); 3) fulfil human rights by adopting all necessary measures (e.g. create health programmes to provide medicines or pass laws to recognize indigenous ancestral lands and 4) guarantee human rights without discrimination of any kind including disability, health status, age, sexual orientation, civil, political and social status.\n\nInternational human rights law predate the MDGs, and States have existing legal obligations to realize human rights such that development goals targets and indicators need to be aligned with a human rights approach. The process of alignment should involve 1) adapting each target to the relevant economic, social or cultural right; 2) mainstreaming gender; 3) ensuring the excluded are included; and 4) ensuring indicators are rights sensitive. There must be minimum standards for the process agreed on by all participants that includes the design, implementation and monitoring of development strategies; which are inclusive of women and marginalized groups. Elite capture and reinforcement of existing social hierarchies and power relations must be prevented and information must be transparent and accessible, finally there must be accountability mechanisms to ensure the participatory process is kept to these standards such that overall there is a prioritization of human rights in policy and resource allocation.\n\nThe Development CoOperation Forum is an initiative of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSCO) and now held biannually. The objectives of the upcoming forum include 1) Assess how a global partnership for development beyond 2015 could work in practice. 2) examine implications of a post-2015 development agenda for development cooperation; 3) identify ways to enhance national and global accountability and effective monitoring of development cooperation and 4) advance policy dialogue and concrete actions by Southern development cooperation partners on commons issues and challenges.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) since its formation in 1919 has lent strong support to workers rights and its work compliments human rights as stipulated under Article 23 of the UDHR., Article 22 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and Article 11 of the European Convention. The organization has developed its own conventions and committees for advise on labour laws and mediates between trade unions and employers guarding labour principles outlined in the UN Global Compact.\n\nThe ILO Conventions include Freedom of Association and Protection of the Right to Organise Convention 1948 and the Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention, 1949. In 1998 the organization issued a declaration of four core labour rights 1) freedom of association and the effective right of collective bargaining 2) the prohibition of forced compulsory labour 3) the effective abolition of child labour 4) the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment or occupation. Collective bargaining may be viewed as an individual right to combine with other individual workers in a position to achieve wage justice, safe working conditions, fair disciplinary treatment and comradery. It is also a practice that counterbalances and overcomes inequalities in market forces.\n\nThe Fair Labor Association (FLA) developed a Workplace Code of Conduct \nbased on ILO standards and addresses 1) forced labour; 2) child labour; 3) harassment or abuse; 4) nondiscrimination; 5) health and safety; 6) freedom of association and collective bargaining; 7) wages and benefits 8) hours of work and 9 overtime compensation.\n\nAround half of the wealthiest 100 entities in the world today are corporations not countries. with many organisations committing gross human rights violations from which they earn vast profits. Wars are inflamed through arms sales and corporations deal in conflict commodities like diamonds.\n\nImportantly the legal personality of corporations was established in the \"Barcelona Traction\" case. (1970) In 2004 the UN Commission on Human Rights asked the OHCHR to compile a report on the responsibilities of transnational corporations (TNCs) and following up on the report a Special Representative was appointed to look at the issues and to comment on the relationship of TNC's and other business enterprises. The Ruggie Reports from between 2005 -2011 present a conceptual and policy framework to help guide relevant actors comprising three core principles \"protect, respect and remedy\". It is the State duty to \"protect\" against human rights abuses by third parties, including business; whilst there is a corporate responsibility to \"respect\" human rights; and furthermore there is need for effective access to \"remedies.\" In 2011 The United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights were annexed to the last report.\n\nStates have the primary role in preventing and addressing corporate related human rights abuses under resolution 8/7 governments can support and strengthen market pressures on companies to respect rights whilst adequate reporting enables stakeholders to examine rights related performance. To fulfil the duty to protect states must regulate and adjudicate the acts of business enterprises. International Human rights treaties do not themselves create direct obligations for corporations but treaty bodies refer more directly to the role of states in specifically guarding against human rights violations by corporations. The more recent Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities clearly provides that state parties have an obligation to take all appropriate measures to eliminate discrimination on the basis of disability by any person organization or private enterprise. An unresolved legal issue in this regard is as to the extent of a State's jurisdiction, does a states obligation extend extra-territorially or internationally?\n\nBusiness enterprises should respect human rights, avoiding infringing on the human rights of others and they should address adverse human rights impacts when they are involved. The responsibility of business enterprises to respect human rights refers to those rights as expressed in the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. As part of their duty to protect against business related human rights abuse States must take appropriate steps to ensure that those affected have access to effective remedy through judicial, administrative, legislative or other appropriate means.\n\nSince the 1990s soft law instruments have been relied upon to guide corporate behaviour such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Global Compact and the UN draft norms on transnational corporation and other business enterprises. The OECD Guidelines cover a wide range of issues including labour and environmental standards, human rights, corruption, consumer protection, technology amongst others. The guidelines are completely voluntary and were revised in 2000 and updated in 2011. In 2000 a complaint procedure was introduced allowing NGO's and others to submit complaints to alleged breaches where previously only trade unions could submit complaints. The 2011 update introduced a specific chapter on human rights and aligns the guidelines with the UN Special Rapporteur framework of \"protect respect and remedy\".\n\nIn 2000 the UN established the Global Compact which call on business leaders \"embrace and enact' a set of 10 principles relating to human rights, labour rights, environmental protections and corruption. The compact did not include a mechanism for dispute resolution. In response to this criticism integrity measures were introduced in 2005 which created a complaints procedure for systematic abuse of the compacts overall aims and principles.\n\nIn 2003 a UN subcommission on the promotion and protection of Human Rights adopted a set of international norms applying to TNC's and other business they are based on international instruments, non binding declarations and guidelines adopted by multilateral organizations. The norms include 1) general obligations; 2) rights to equal opportunity and non-discriminatory treatment; 3) rights to security of persons; 4) rights of workers 5) respect for national sovereignty and human rights; 6) obligations with regard to consumer protection; 7) obligations with regard to environmental protection 8) general provisions of implementation and 9) definitions. The norms however do not have legal status and are unlikely to be developed further and the subcomission is now replaced by the Human Rights Council Advisory Committee.\n\nThere has also emerged over the past decades a proliferation of company specific and multi-stakeholder codes of conduct such as the Sullivan principles and as such hundreds of companies have now publicly committed to upholding basic human rights. Codes of conduct are regarded as part of the soft law regime and are not legally binding but the general normative effect may lead to legal effect as standards may be incorporated into employment and agency contracts.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission tasked with drawing up the UDHR was divided on whether the bill should be legally enforceable either as an annex to the UN Charter or as a multilateral convention. As a Declaration of principles it has no powers of implementation but results in new developments of customary international law. As a non legal document the declaration yet defines the nature and meaning of a pledge to respect human rights provided under Article 55 of the UN Charter. Since its initial singing with 48 members and 8 abstention it has grown to include 192 member states. As such Human rights have an inherent dignity and are inalienable, they \"should be protected by the rule of law\" to prevent the need of individuals being compelled to revolt against tyranny\n\nDuring the 1970s, General Pinochet's crimes in Argentina contributed greatly to the general assembly passing the United Nations Convention against Torture1975 while the Helsinki Accords 1975 also gave strength to the Human Rights movement. Today the binding UN covenants of the ICCPR and the ICESCR are now in force. In 1977 the Security Council imposed mandatory trade sanctions on South Africa after having previously declared apartheid as \"a grave threat to the peace\" justifying the interference into the States internal affairs. The ban on trade was not policed and circumnavigated by multinational corporations. During this period Andrei Sakharov drew attention to the plight of political prisoners whilst critiquing the UN system for its partisan politics. Václav Havel appealed to the Helsinki promise of political cooperation to be taken at face value. These developments coincided with a shift in US foreign policy to include human rights in its agenda while the twin covenants making human rights abuse a legitimate subject of international concern.\n\nThe Commission and Human Rights Council have not substantially acted on human rights violations and states represented on the commission have not wished to create enforcement procedures which might be used on themselves or their allies, such that tragedies like Pol Pot's Genocide and the execution of Ken Saro-Wiwa persist. The Human Rights Committee a body of independent experts monitor the implementation of the ICCPR. All parties must submit an initial report and are subject to four yearly reporting. Concerns and recommendations are addressed in \"concluding observations\" addressed to the State Party. Article 41 provides for interstate complaints while the Optional Protocol 1 gives the committee competence to examine individual complaints of alleged violation by State Parties to the Protocol\n\nEnforcement in relation to TNC's has often been through tort litigation where human rights standards have been incorporated into domestic legislation. though International law itself is yet unable to impose human rights obligations on corporations. The Alien Tort Statute or Alien Tort Claims Act (ATCA) of 1789 draws directly on international norms to hold corporations liable for conduct that violates human rights. The ATCA allows a plaintiff not resident in the USA to sue a defendant over which a US court has jurisdiction for a violation of the law of nations even where the event is outside US territory. In \"Filartiga v Pane-Irala\" a Paraguayan policeman was sued for torture and murder of the plaintiffs relative though in \"Sosa v Alvarez Machain\" it was held That the ATCA did not extend to arbitrary arrest or detention in violation of the UDHR and the ICCPR.\n\nIn \"Doe v Unocal\" a civil claim was brought under the ATCA alleging abuses on the part of an oil consortium and its security representatives which resulted in forced labour, murder, rape and torture of villages. The Court held that a reasonable person could conclude on the evidence that Uncol had aided and abetted the abuses committed by the Myanmar Military and court drew on the jurisprudence of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) for its decision.\n\nThe International Criminal Court (ICC) may hold individuals accountable for human rights abuses under the provision of its founding statute. it does not however have jurisdiction of corporations though individuals within corporations can be held to account. The Court has jurisdiction to try cases of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes where states with the domestic criminal jurisdiction are unwilling to carry out investigations. Where multinational corporations commit crimes on a scale that reach the level of the courts jurisdiction individuals responsible can then be held liable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2101527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101527", "title": "Job Cohen", "text": "Job Cohen\n\nMarius Job \"Job\" Cohen (; born 18 October 1947) is a retired Dutch politician who served as Mayor of Amsterdam from 2001 to 2010 and as Leader of the Labour Party (PvdA) from 2010 to 2012. Cohen is known as a consensus builder and mediator, and as an advocate of social integration.\n\nCohen, a jurist by occupation, worked as a researcher for the Leiden University from 1971 until 1981 and for the State University of Limburg from 1981 until 1983. Cohen became a professor of jurisprudence at the State University of Limburg in 1983 and was appointed as rector of the State University of Limburg in 1991. \n\nIn 1993 Cohen was asked by the Labour Party to become Undersecretary for Education and Sciences in the Cabinet Lubbers III under Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers following the resignation of Roel in 't Veld. Cohen accepted and resigned as rector and professor the same day he took office as the new Undersecretary for Education and Sciences on 2 July 1993. After the Dutch general election of 1994 Cohen was asked to become Minister of Education and Science in the Cabinet Kok I under Prime Minister Wim Kok but refused after his wife was diagnosed with Multiple sclerosis. \n\nCohen remained Undersecretary for Education and Sciences until the Cabinet Kok I was installed on 22 August 1994. He returned to the State University of Limburg as rector and as a professor of jurisprudence in 1995. For the Dutch Senate election of 1995 Cohen was elected as a Member of the Senate taking office on 13 June 1995. On 1 August 1996 Cohen was selected as the Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the Senate. After the Dutch general election of 1998 Cohen was asked to become Undersecretary for Justice in the Cabinet Kok II. Cohen accepted and resigned as the Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the Senate and as a Member of the Senate and as rector and professor the same day the Cabinet Kok II was installed on 3 August 1998. \n\nOn 15 December 2000 Cohen was selected as Mayor of Amsterdam and resigned as Undersecretary for Justice on 1 January 2001 and took office as Mayor of Amsterdam on 15 January 2001. \n\nOn 12 March 2010 the Leader of the Labour Party Wouter Bos unexpectedly announced his retirement from national politics and stood down as Leader of the Labour Party, Cohen announced his resignation as Mayor of Amsterdam the same day and was elected as the Leader of the Labour Party on 25 April 2010 and became the Lijsttrekker (top candidate) for the Dutch general election of 2010. Following the election the Labour Party became the second largest party in the House of Representatives and Cohen was elected as the Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives and a Member of the House of Representatives on 17 June 2010. Cohen served as opposition leader against Prime Minister Mark Rutte and the Cabinet Rutte I. \n\nOn 20 February 2012 after increasing criticism on his performance as opposition leader Cohen announced his retirement from national politics and stood down as Leader of the Labour Party and Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives that same day. Cohen remained a Member of the House of Representatives until 29 February 2012.\n\nCohen semi-retired from active politics at the age of sixty-five and served as Chairman of the investigation committee for the Project X Haren-riots. Following the end of his active political career, Cohen occupied numerous seats on supervisory boards in several international non-governmental organizations (Ronald McDonald House Charities, Openbare Bibliotheek Amsterdam). Cohen has been the Chairman of the Social Affairs and Employment Trade association (Cedris) since 2013 and currently serves as professor of jurisprudence, public administration and political science at the Leiden University since 2014.\n\nMarius Job Cohen was born in Haarlem. He is the second child (of two) of Adolf Emile \"Dolf\" Cohen (1913–2004) and Henriëtte \"Hetty\" Koster (1913–1996). His elder brother is Floris Cohen (born 1946).\n\nHis parents both studied history and became high school teachers of history. They were liberal (non-religious) Jews, and were forced into hiding until the end of World War II. His paternal grandparents Hendrik Cohen and Flora Polak both died in Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in 1945. After the war, his father worked at the Dutch Institute for War Documentation. Later he became a professor of medieval history and a \"rector magnificus\" at Leiden University. His mother became a member of the city council of Heemstede. His parents were both early members of the Labour Party.\n\nCohen attended public primary school in Heemstede. He attended the secondary school Stedelijk Gymnasium in Haarlem from 1960 to 1966. He studied Dutch public law at the University of Groningen from 1966 and obtained his Master of Laws degree in 1971. During his student years, he was a member of the student association Vindicat atque Polit.\n\nCohen married Lidie Lodeweges on 2 July 1972 in Groningen. She studied Dutch language in Groningen and was a high school teacher. She had multiple sclerosis and needed a wheelchair. Cohen and his wife had two children, son Jaap (born 1980) and daughter Lotje (born 1983). Lidie Cohen died on 4 August 2015.\n\nBetween 1 September 1971 and 1 September 1981, Job Cohen held a scientific position at the Bureau Research of Education at Leiden University. He obtained a doctorate (PhD) from this university in June 1981, with a dissertation on the rights of university students.\n\nOn 1 September 1981 he joined the State University of Limburg in a higher scientific capacity, and was chairman of the commission that prepared the establishment of a faculty of law. On 1 September 1983 Cohen became professor of methods and techniques at the faculty of law; on 1 January 1991 he also became \"rector magnificus\" of the State University of Limburg. He resigned from this position to become State Secretary for Education and Sciences in 1993.\n\nIn 1995 he returned to his position in Maastricht as professor and rector magnificus at Maastricht University (the former State University of Limburg). From 1 January 1998, he took a sabbatical year, but he resigned in August 1998 when he became State Secretary for Justice.\n\nCohen has received two honorary degrees for his contributions to law and society, one in 2007 from the University of Windsor and one in 2008 from the Radboud University Nijmegen.\n\nOn 2 July 1993, Cohen became State Secretary (deputy minister) for Education and Sciences in the third cabinet of Ruud Lubbers, under education minister Jo Ritzen. In Cohen's portfolio were higher and academic education, science policy, and adult education. The term of this post expired after a year and Cohen returned to his academic post in Maastricht.\n\nFrom 13 June 1995, Cohen was a member of the Senate of the Netherlands. Between 1 August 1996 until he resigned from the Senate on 3 August 1998, he was also the parliamentary group leader of the Labour Party in the Senate.\n\nDuring his period in the Senate, he also worked for the Maastricht University, where he began a sabbatical year on 1 January 1998. In February 1998 however, he took on the function of interim-director of the broadcasting organization VPRO, lasting until 15 August.\n\nOn 3 August 1998, he resigned from the Senate to take up the position of State Secretary for Justice in the second cabinet of Wim Kok, dealing chiefly with immigration. In this capacity he was responsible for a new immigration law, intended to restrict entry of refugees to \"genuine cases\".\n\nHe resigned his position as State Secretary on 31 December 2000 in order to take up the position of Mayor of Amsterdam (\"burgemeester\") on 15 January 2001. Mayors of Dutch cities are appointed by the cabinet in the name of the monarch.\n\nAt midnight on 1 April 2001, Cohen became the first public official to wed same-sex couples, following the passing of legislation opening up marriage to people of the same gender (see same-sex marriage in the Netherlands).\n\nOn 2 February 2002, Job Cohen performed the civil marriage of Prince Willem-Alexander and Máxima Zorreguieta in the Beurs van Berlage in Amsterdam.\n\nIn November 2004, controversial film maker Theo van Gogh was killed in Amsterdam by a Muslim extremist. \"Time\" awarded Cohen the title \"European Hero\" in 2005, for his inclusive approach towards the Muslim community after the murder, defusing tension in the city.\n\nCohen found himself thrown into the role of mediator between the city's Muslims, the original Dutch population and other groups in the cultural and racial mix. Almost half Amsterdam's residents are of non-Western descent, a majority of them Muslims.\"Islam is here to stay, in this country, in this city (...) We have to deal with Islam as a fact, not whether we like it. So the real question is how to get on with each other.\" Cohen took pride in the fact that in Amsterdam no violence or arson occurred in response to the killing. By his visiting ethnic groups, organizing debates among religious leaders and his listening and promoting dialogue, he received from opponents the mocking nickname of \"tea drinker\" – an image that would be exploited by them when he returned in the Dutch national politics in 2010.\n\nOn 27 January 2006 Cohen announced he would be willing to serve a second term as mayor of Amsterdam. On 12 July 2006 the municipality of Amsterdam almost unanimously (Democrats 66 opposed, being in favour of an elected mayor) supported Cohen to prolong his career as a mayor after 15 January 2007 when his first term ended. The Queen's Commissioner Harry Borghouts of North Holland will now have to offer this advice to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.\n\nCohen's politics towards ethnic minorities in Amsterdam is characterized by the slogan \"keeping things together\" (\"de boel bij elkaar houden\"). On 2 May 2006 Immigration Minister Rita Verdonk of the centre-right VVD accused Amsterdam of becoming a \"banana republic\", with a lax safety policy: she cited the criminal liquidations and the disturbance caused by young people as examples of this. In the yearly crime meter of the Algemeen Dagblad Amsterdam did not perform particularly badly in safety policy and crime fighting, one of the reasons for this is Cohen's targeted approach towards those who commit multiple crimes (\"veelplegers\"). Cohen stated that his policy which combines soft and hard approaches, fighting crime and fighting the causes of crime, was the key to his successful safety policy.\n\nIn 2006 the World Mayor organization determined Cohen to be runner-up in the award for World Mayor of 2006, behind Melbourne mayor John So, and ahead of Harrisburg mayor Stephen R. Reed. World Mayor praised Cohen's leadership following the murder of Theo van Gogh in 2004, and his efforts at bringing together the diverse population of Amsterdam.\n\nIn late 2007, Cohen moved to reduce prostitution in Amsterdam, following allegations that Hells Angels and other organized criminals had taken over the prostitution industry. The city council bought 18 buildings in the red light district De Wallen from Charlie Geerts in order to convert them into upscale establishments and revoked the license of the luxury brothel Yab Yum.\n\nOn 12 March 2010, Wouter Bos resigned as leader of the Labour Party. Bos named Cohen as candidate for the position, which he accepted. At the subsequent elections, Cohen was a candidate for Prime Minister. He was expected to be a strong opponent to Geert Wilders and was described in the press as \"authoritarian but enlightened.\" Exit polls showed the Labour Party as the second largest with 30 seats and 19.6% of the total vote. Eventually his opponent Mark Rutte of the VVD became the Prime Minister of the Netherlands.\n\nHe has been chair of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives since 10 June 2010 and a member of the House of Representatives since 17 June 2010.\n\nOn 20 February 2012, he resigned as leader of the Labour Party, he also left the House of Representatives over criticisms that he had been too moderate towards the center-right Dutch government's planned economic austerity measures and the Dutch government's support for the EU Commission's plan to bail out Greece, which had been passed with the support of the Dutch Labour Party. At the time of his resignation, the Dutch Socialist Party, politically to the left of the Dutch Labour Party, had overtaken the Dutch Labour Party in a number of opinion polls.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "185863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185863", "title": "KNX (standard)", "text": "KNX (standard)\n\nKNX, an abbreviation of Konnex, is an open standard (see EN 50090, ISO/IEC 14543) for commercial and domestic building automation. KNX devices can manage lighting, blinds and shutters, HVAC, security systems, energy management, audio video, white goods, displays, remote control, etc. KNX evolved from three earlier standards; the European Home Systems Protocol (EHS), BatiBUS, and the European Installation Bus (EIB or Instabus). It can use twisted pair, powerline, RF, infrared or Ethernet links in a tree, line or star topology. On this network, the devices form distributed applications and tight interaction is possible. This is implemented via interworking models with standardised datapoint types and objects, modelling logical device channels. \n\nThe KNX standard has been built on the OSI-based EIB communication stack extended with the physical layers, configuration modes and application experience of BatiBUS and EHS.\n\nKNX installations can use several physical communication media:\n\n\nKNX is not based on a specific hardware platform and a network can be controlled by anything from an 8-bit microcontroller to a PC, according to the demands of a particular building. The most common form of installation is over twisted pair medium.\n\nKNX is an approved standard by the following organisations, (inter alia):\n\n\nIt is administered by the KNX Association cvba, a non-profit organisation governed by Belgian law which was formed in 1999. The KNX Association had 443 registered hardware and software vendor members from 44 nations as at 1 July 2018. It had partnership agreements with over 77,000 installer companies in 163 countries and more than 440 registered training centres. This is a royalty-free open standard and thus access to the KNX specifications is unrestricted.\n\nKNX devices are commonly connected by a twisted pair bus and can be modified from a controller. The bus is routed in parallel to the electrical power supply to all devices and systems on the network linking:\n\n\nApplication software, together with system topology and commissioning software, is loaded onto the devices via a system interface component. Installed systems can be accessed via LAN, point to point links, or phone networks for central or distributed control of the system via computers, tablets and touch screens, and smartphones.\n\nThe key features of the KNX architecture are: \n\n\nCentral to the KNX architecture concepts are datapoints (inputs, outputs, parameters, and diagnostic data) which represent process and control variables in the system. The standardised containers for these datapoints are group objects and interface object properties. The communication system offers a reduced instruction set to read and write datapoint values. Datapoints have to confirm to standardised datapoint types, themselves grouped into functional blocks. These functional blocks and datapoint types are related to applications fields, but some of them are of general use (such as date and time). Datapoints may be accessed through unicast or multicast mechanisms.\n\nTo logically link applications datapoints across the network, KNX has three underlying binding schemes: one for free, one for structured and one for tagged binding:\n\n\nThe common kernel sits on top of the physical layers and the medium-specific data link layer and is shared by all the devices on the KNX Network. It is OSI 7-layer model compliant:\n\n\nAn installation has to be configured at the network topology level and at individual nodes or devices. The first level is a precondition or “bootstrap” phase, prior to the configuration of the distributed applications, i.e. binding and parameter setting. Configuration may be achieved through a combination of local activity on the devices (such pushing a button), and active network management communication over the bus (peer-to-peer, or more centralized master-slave). \n\nThe KNX configuration mode: \n\n\nSome modes require more active management over the bus, whereas some others are mainly oriented towards local configuration. There are three categories of KNX devices:\n\n\nKNX encompasses tools for project engineering tasks such as linking a series of individual devices into a functioning installation and integrating different media and configuration modes. This is embodied in an \"Engineering Tool Software\" (ETS) suite.\n\nA KNX installation always consists of a set of devices connected to the bus or network. Device models vary according to node roles, capabilities, management features and configuration modes, and are all laid down in the profiles. There are also general-purpose device models, such as for bus coupling units (BCUs) or bus interface modules (BIMs).\n\nDevices may be identified and subsequently accessed throughout the network either by their individual address, or by their unique serial number, depending on the configuration mode. (Unique serial numbers are allocated by the KNX Association Certification Department.) Devices can also disclose both a manufacturer specific reference and functional (manufacturer independent) information when queried. \n\nA KNX wired network can be formed with tree, line and star topologies, which can be mixed as needed; ring topologies are \"not\" supported. A tree topology is recommended for a large installation.\n\nKNX can link up to 57,375 devices using 16-bit addresses.\n\n\nCoupling units allow address filtering which helps to improve performance given the limited bus signal speed. An installation based on KNXnet/IP allows the integration of KNX sub networks via IP as the KNX address structure is similar to an IP address.\n\nThe TP1 twisted pair bus (inherited from EIB) provides asynchronous, character oriented data transfer and half-duplex bidirectional differential signaling with a signaling speed of 9600 bit/s. Media access control is via CSMA/CA. Every bus user has equal data transmission rights and data is exchanged directly (peer-to-peer) between bus users. SELV power is distributed via the same pair for low-power devices. A deprecated specification, TP0, running at a slower signalling speed of , has been retained from the BatiBUS standard but KNX products cannot exchange information with BatiBUS devices.\n\nPL 110 power-line transmission is delivered using spread frequency shift keying signalling with asynchronous transmission of data packets and half duplex bi-directional communication. It uses the central frequency 110 kHz ( CENELEC B band) and has a data rate of 1200 bit/s. It also uses CSMA. KNX Powerline is aimed at smart white goods, but the take-up has been low. An alternative variant, PL 132, has a carrier frequency centred on 132.5kHz (CENELEC-C band).\n\nRF enables communication in the 868.3 MHz band for using frequency shift keying with Manchester data encoding.\n\nKNXnet/IP has integration solutions for IP-enabled media like Ethernet (IEEE 802.2), Bluetooth, WiFi/Wireless LAN (IEEE 802.11), FireWire (IEEE 1394) etc.\n\nIgnoring any preamble for medium-specific access and collision control, a frame format is generally:\nAny product labeled with the KNX trademark must be certified to conform with the standards (and thus interoperable with other devices) by accredited third party test labs. \n\n"}
{"id": "1904269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1904269", "title": "Law commission", "text": "Law commission\n\nA law commission, law reform commission, or law revision commission is an independent body set up by a government to conduct law reform; that is, to consider the state of laws in a jurisdiction and make recommendations or proposals for legal changes or restructuring.\n\nThe first term is prevalent in the United Kingdom, the second is prevalent in the Commonwealth, and the third one is prevalent in the United States, where \"reform\" is too strong a term (it necessarily implies the legislature must have been incompetent or corrupt).\n\nThe functions of a law commission body include drafting revised versions of confusing laws, preparing consolidated versions of laws, making recommendations on updating outdated laws and making recommendations on repealing obsolete or spent laws. Law commissions often undertake projects focusing on legislation, although their mandates may be narrower or broader.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1548943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548943", "title": "Limited partnership", "text": "Limited partnership\n\nA limited partnership (LP) is a form of partnership similar to a general partnership except that while a general partnership must have at least two general partners (GPs), a limited partnership must have at least one GP and at least one limited partner.\n\nThe GPs are, in all major respects, in the same legal position as partners in a conventional firm: they have management control, share the right to use partnership property, share the profits of the firm in predefined proportions, and have joint and several liability for the debts of the partnership.\n\nAs in a general partnership, the GPs have actual authority, as agents of the firm, to bind the partnership in contracts with third parties that are in the ordinary course of the partnership's business. As with a general partnership, \"an act of a general partner which is not apparently for carrying on in the ordinary course the limited partnership's activities or activities of the kind carried on by the limited partnership binds the limited partnership only if the act was actually authorized by all the other partners.\"\n\nLike shareholders in a corporation, limited partners have limited liability. This means that the limited partners have no management authority, and (unless they obligate themselves by a separate contract such as a guarantee) are not liable for the debts of the partnership. The limited partnership provides the limited partners a return on their investment (similar to a dividend), the nature and extent of which is usually defined in the partnership agreement. General Partners thus bear more economic risk than do limited partners, and in cases of financial loss, the GPs will be the ones which are personally liable.\n\nLimited partners are subject to the same alter-ego piercing theories as corporate shareholders. However, it is more difficult to pierce the limited partnership veil because limited partnerships do not have many formalities to maintain. So long as the partnership and the members do not co-mingle funds, it would be difficult to pierce the veil.\n\nPartnership interests (including the interests of limited partners) are afforded a significant level of protection through the charging order mechanism. The charging order limits the creditor of a debtor-partner or a debtor-member to the debtor’s share of distributions, without conferring on the creditor any voting or management rights.\n\nWhen the partnership is being constituted, or the composition of the firm is changing, limited partnerships are generally required to file documents with the relevant state registration office. Limited partners must explicitly disclose their status when dealing with other parties, so that such parties are on notice that the individual negotiating with them carries limited liability. It is customary that the documentation and electronic materials issued to the public by the firm will carry a clear statement identifying the legal nature of the firm and listing the partners separately as general and limited. Hence, unlike the GPs, the limited partners do not have inherent agency authority to bind the firm unless they are subsequently \"held out\" as agents (and so create an agency by estoppel); or acts of ratification by the firm create ostensible authority.\n\nLimited partnerships are distinct from limited liability partnerships, in which all partners have limited liability. In some jurisdictions, the limited liability of the limited partners is contingent on their not participating in management.\n\nThe \"societates publicanorum\", which arose in Rome in the third century BC, may have arguably been the earliest form of limited partnership. During the heyday of the Roman Empire, they were roughly equivalent to today's corporations. Some had many investors, and interests were publicly tradable. However, they required at least one (and often several) partners with unlimited liability.\n\nAccording to Jairus Banaji, the \"Qirad\" and \"Mudaraba\" institutions in Islamic law and economic jurisprudence were similar to the modern limited partnership. In medieval Italy, a business organization known as the \"commenda\" appeared in the 10th century that was generally used for financing maritime trade. In a commenda, the traveling trader of the ship had limited liability, and was not held responsible if money was lost as long as the trader had not violated the rules of the contract. In contrast, his investment partners on land had unlimited liability and were exposed to risk. A \"commenda\" was not a common form for a long-term business venture as most long-term businesses were still expected to be secured against the assets of their individual proprietors. As an institution, the commenda is very similar to the qirad but whether the qirad transformed into the commenda, or the two institutions evolved independently cannot be stated with certainty.\n\nColbert's Ordinance (1673) and the Napoleonic Code (1807) reinforced the limited partnership concept in European law. In the United States, limited partnerships became widely available in the early 19th century, although a number of legal restrictions at the time made them unpopular for business ventures. Britain enacted its first limited partnership statute in 1907.\n\nIn the United States, the limited partnership organization is most common among film production companies and real estate investment projects, or in types of businesses that focus on a single or limited-term project. They are also useful in \"labor-capital\" partnerships, where one or more financial backers prefer to contribute money or resources while the other partner performs the actual work. In such situations, liability is the driving concern behind the choice of limited partnership status. The limited partnership is also attractive to firms wishing to provide shares to many individuals without the additional tax liability of a corporation. Private equity companies almost exclusively use a combination of general and limited partners for their investment funds. Well-known limited partnerships include Enterprise Products and Blackstone Group (both of which are public companies), and Bloomberg L.P. (a private company).\n\nBefore 2001, the limited liability enjoyed by limited partners was contingent upon their refraining from taking any active role in the management of the firm. However, Section 303 of the Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act (if adopted by a state legislature) eliminates the so-called \"control rule\" with respect to personal liability for entity obligations and brings limited partners into parity with LLC members, LLP partners and corporate shareholders.\n\nThe 2001 amendments to the Uniform Limited Partnership Act (to the extent the amendments are adopted by state legislature) also permitted limited partnerships to become Limited Liability Limited Partnerships in states that adopt the change. Under this form, debts of a limited liability limited partnership are solely the responsibility of the partnership, thereby removing general-partner liability for partnership obligations. This change was made in response to the common practice of naming a limited-liability entity as a 1% general partner that controlled the limited partnership and organizing the managers as limited partners. This practice granted a general partner de facto limited liability under the partnership structure.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, limited partnerships are governed by the Limited Partnerships Act 1907. The UK Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform (now the Department for Business Innovation and Skills) consulted in 2008 on proposals to modify and merge the Act with the Partnership Act 1890, but the proposals did not go ahead, and the 1907 Act remains the governing Act.\n\nEnglish law and Scottish law are distinct on partnerships. In English law, limited partnerships are not legally separate entities: the partners are jointly and severally liable and any lawsuits filed are filed against the partners by name. There has been discussion over whether limited partnerships operating under English law should be made separate legal entities in the same way as limited liability partnerships are. The Law Commission report on partnership law LC283 suggested that creation of separate legal personality should be left as an option for the partners to decide upon when a partnership is formed. There were concerns that automatically making partnerships separate legal entities would restrict their ability to trade in some European countries and also expose them to different tax regimes than expected.\n\nJapanese law has historically provided for two business forms similar to limited partnerships:\n\nIn 1999, the Diet of Japan passed legislation enabling the formation of . These are very similar to Anglo-American limited partnerships, in that they adopt most provisions of general partnership law but provide for limited liability for certain partners. Profits of an investment limited partnership pass through to all partners proportional to their investment share. For tax purposes, profits and losses will only pass through to the general partner(s) while the partnership has negative equity (i.e. liabilities exceeding assets); however, profits and losses while the partnership has positive equity are shared equally.\n\nIn New Zealand, Limited Partnerships are a form of partnership involving General Partners, (who are liable for all the debts and liabilities of the partnership) and Limited Partners (who are liable to the extent of their capital contribution to the partnership). The Limited Partnerships Act 2008 replaces Special Partnerships that exist under Part 2 of the Partnership Act 1908. Special partnerships are considered obsolete as they do not provide the appropriate structure preferred by foreign venture capital investors.\n\nFeatures of Limited Partnerships include:\n\nThe registers of Limited Partnerships and Overseas Limited Partnerships are administered by the New Zealand Companies Office. Registration, maintenance and annual return filing for Limited Partnerships and Overseas Limited Partnerships are conducted through manual forms.\n\nKommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – abbreviated KGaA – is a German corporate designation standing for 'partnership limited by shares', a form of corporate organization roughly equivalent to a master limited partnership. A Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien has two types of participators. It has at least one partner with unlimited liability (Komplementär). It is in that sense a private company. Komplementärs are natural persons or legal persons. If the Komplementär is a corporation with limited liability then the type of the company has to be named as \"UG (haftungsbeschränkt) & Co. KGaA\", \"GmbH & Co. KGaA\", \"AG & Co. KGaA\" or \"SE & Co. KGaA\". Under consideration of the aspects of European freedom of establishment it is also possible that corporations established under foreign law can become Komplementärs of a KGaA forming companies like \"Limited & Co. KGaA\".\n\nThe investment of the partners with limited liability (Kommanditisten) is the stock of the company (Grundkapital) and divided into shares. A KGaA is in that aspect comparable with a German Aktiengesellschaft.\n\nThe investment of all partners is the corporate's total capital (Gesamtkapital). The KGaA is a traditional type of very large family businesses (that are partly publicly traded) in Germany; the consumer products giant Henkel and pharmaceutical company Merck are prominent examples. In case of Merck, besides the owning family Merck also the members of the executive board are fully and privately liable for the company (including a period after withdrawal). Also the German football club Borussia Dortmund uses this corporate organization for its professional football team.\n\nA kommanditselskab (abbreviated K/S) is the Danish equivalent of the limited partnership. The owners are divided into general partners (komplementarer in Danish) and limited partners (kommanditister in Danish). Often the only general partner of a K/S is an Anpartsselskab with the least possible capital, thus reducing the liability of the K/S to the capital of the Anpartsselskab.\n\n"}
{"id": "4173041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4173041", "title": "List of law schools in Taiwan", "text": "List of law schools in Taiwan\n\nIn Taiwan, law is primarily studied as an undergraduate program resulting in a Bachelor of Law (B.L.). It is said that this degree is equivalent to the 'first' professional degree in law (J.D. or LL.B.). This is why most Taiwan universities have departments of law rather than schools of law. Recently, some universities have adopted a system where students with university or higher education in subjects other than law may apply for admission to law institutes. Many places, like the National Taiwan University College of Law, have begun to offer a Master's program in what they refer to as interdisciplinary legal studies; this program is utilizing a professional school-like legal education system. At the graduate level, there is an LL.M. or Ph.D. offered in the area of law.\n\nStudents receive academic rather than practical training. Practical training is arranged only after the individual passes the lawyer, judge or prosecutor exams.\n\n\nAccording to the National Taiwan University College of Law:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36030870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36030870", "title": "Mauritanian constitutional referendum, 1958", "text": "Mauritanian constitutional referendum, 1958\n\nA referendum on the new constitution of France was held in Mauritania on 28 September 1958 as part of a wider referendum held across the French Union. The new constitution would see the country become part of the new French Community if accepted, or result in independence if rejected. It was approved by 94.04% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "57941617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57941617", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Transnistria)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Transnistria)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Transnistria (Pridnestrovskaia Moldavskaia Respublika) ensures the law-making activity of the President of the Pridnestrovskaia Moldavskaia Respublika and executive bodies of state power by doing the following:\n\n\nIn 1991, the Pridnestrovskaia Moldavskaia Respublika (PMR) leadership faced the rather difficult task of preserving what was inherited from the Soviet Union in terms of economy, social sphere, education, culture, rule of law and human rights protection. The young republic needed to form a new system of public authorities and government. Thus, in May 1991, the structure of the PMR government was approved and there was an initial effort to create administrations rather than ministries. On July 24, 1991, the Edict of the President of the PMR formulated the Department of Justice.\n\nOn September 8, 1992, the Ministry of Justice of the PMR was established by the decree of the Supreme Council of the PMR on the basis of the Republican Department of Justice. It was necessary to re-staff all the organs of justice such as the people's courts, the departments of the registry office, the notary, and the bar. As of August 20, 1992, the notary's office of Dubossary (Dubossary district) has passed under the jurisdiction of the PMR. Notary offices were established on June 1, 1993 in the cities of Tiraspol, Bendery, Grigoriopol, Rybnitsa, Kamenka and Slobodzeya. In mid-2000, the executive bodies of state power were reorganized and the PMR Cabinet of Ministers was formed. Significant changes that have occurred in all branches of public administration have also affected the justice bodies.\n\nIn 2001, on the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, the Assembly of Acts of Legislation (SAZ) of the PMR was published for the first time in the Republic. In 2003, by the decree of the President of the PMR, the Criminal Justice Department of the Ministry of Justice was reorganized into the State Service for the Execution of Sentences and Judgments, which included the Department for Execution of Judicial Decisions. It laid the groundwork for the formation of an independent structure—namely the Judicial Service Service under the Ministry of Justice. On January 1, 2008, in accordance with the Decree of the President of the PMR, the State Registration and Notariate Service was established.\n\nThe Ministry of Justice has priorities such as the enforcement of criminal penalties appointed by the courts in criminal cases, the execution of judgments in civil and administrative cases, the implementation of state registration of legal facts and the issuance of licenses, the ensuring of the protection of the rights and legal interests of citizens and legal entities in the implementation of notarial acts, and further improving the current Transnistrian legislation on the basis of its harmonization with the legislation of the Russian Federation.\n\nThe ministry is structured as follows:\n\nIt was created on September 8, 1992 by the Decree of the Supreme Council of the PMR on the basis of the Republican Department of Justice\n\n"}
{"id": "3683561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3683561", "title": "Morguard Investments Ltd v De Savoye", "text": "Morguard Investments Ltd v De Savoye\n\nMorguard Investments Ltd v De Savoye, [1990] 3 SCR 1077 is the leading decision of the Supreme Court of Canada on the enforcement of extraprovincial judgments. The Court held that the standard for enforcing a default judgment from a different province is not the same as if it were from another country; rather the Court adopts the test from \"Indyka v Indyka\", [1969] 1 AC 33 (HL) and the \"Moran v Pyle National (Canada) Ltd\", [1975] 1 SCR 393 where there must be a \"real and substantial connection\" between the petitioner and the country or territory exercising jurisdiction.\n\nDe Savoye, the appellant, was the mortgagor of a property in Alberta and resided in British Columbia. The mortgage defaulted and the respondents brought action in Alberta, for the land they had mortgaged in that same province.\n\nThe appellant chose not to appear or defend his actions. The respondents obtained judgment \"ex juris\" in the foreclosure action, and then obtained orders for the judicial sale of the properties. They then initiated separate action in the British Columbia Supreme Court to enforce the Alberta judgments for the shortfall.\n\nThe main question placed before the court was the degree of recognition that should be accorded by the courts of one province to the judgments of another for a personal action brought forward in the second province when the defendant did not reside there.\n\nJustice La Forest wrote the unanimous reasons of court for dismissing the appeal. After surveying the case law in both England and the United States he noted that the old common law rules, based on territoriality, sovereignty, independence and attornment, were outdated. La Forest argued that a modern approach based on the principle of comity (\"the deference and respect due by other states to the actions of a state legitimately taken within its territory\") and reciprocity were needed a basis of recognizing foreign judgments. The infringement on the nation's sovereignty is justified where there is mutual convenience between states. The earlier views of distrusting the justice system of other countries, he argued, was outdated. Instead, he emphasized that the business community operates on a world economy and so the law must accommodate \"the flow of wealth, skills and people across state lines\".\n\nOn the basis of Canada's federal system comity should be even stronger between provinces, which share a much deeper bond than nations, based on shared citizenship and a common market. In that regard,\n\nFor La Forest, the concern was to define an outer limit of comity. The solution was to limit the jurisdiction to where there is a \"real and substantial connection\" between the action and the province. He intentionally left the meaning of \"real and substantial connection\" open, stating:\n\nThe test established in this case was later elaborated on by the Court of Appeal for Ontario in \"Muscutt v Courcelles\", where a list of eight factors was given to be considered when determining whether a real and substantial connection exists:\n\n\nThe \"Morguard\" principles were elaborated upon in subsequent cases, notably in:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1398166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398166", "title": "Net neutrality", "text": "Net neutrality\n\nNet neutrality is the principle that Internet service providers treat all data on the Internet equally, and not discriminate or charge differently by user, content, website, platform, application, type of attached equipment, or method of communication. For instance, under these principles, internet service providers are unable to intentionally block, slow down or charge money for specific websites and online content. This is sometimes enforced through government mandate. These regulations can be referred to as \"common carrier\" regulations. This does not block all abilities that Internet service providers have to impact their customer's services. Opt-in/opt-out services exist on the end user side, and filtering can be done on a local basis, as in the filtration of sensitive material for minors. Net neutrality regulations exist only to protect against misuse.\n\nThe term was coined by Columbia University media law professor Tim Wu in 2003, as an extension of the longstanding concept of a common carrier, which was used to describe the role of telephone systems.\n\nA widely cited example of a violation of net neutrality principles was the Internet service provider Comcast's secret slowing (\"throttling\") of uploads from peer-to-peer file sharing (P2P) applications by using forged packets. Comcast did not stop blocking these protocols, like BitTorrent, until the Federal Communications Commission ordered them to stop. In another minor example, the Madison River Communications company was fined US$15,000 by the FCC, in 2004, for restricting their customers' access to Vonage, which was rivaling their own services. AT&T was also caught limiting access to FaceTime, so only those users who paid for AT&T's new shared data plans could access the application. In July 2017, Verizon Wireless was accused of throttling after users noticed that videos played on Netflix and YouTube were slower than usual, though Verizon commented that it was conducting \"network testing\" and that net neutrality rules permit \"reasonable network management practices\". A September 2018 report from Northeastern University and the University of Massachusetts, Amherst found that U.S. telecom companies are indeed slowing internet traffic to and from those two sites in particular along with other popular apps.\n\nResearch suggests that a combination of policy instruments will help realize the range of valued political and economic objectives central to the network neutrality debate. Combined with strong public opinion, this has led some governments to regulate broadband Internet services as a public utility, similar to the way electricity, gas, and the water supply are regulated, along with limiting providers and regulating the options those providers can offer. In the United States, in April 2015, the FCC issued its Open Internet Order, which reclassified Internet access - previously classified as an information service - as a common carrier telecommunications service; i.e. a public utility. But on December 14, 2017, the Commission, which was led by Chairman Ajit Pai, voted to partially repeal the 2015 Open Internet Order, classifying Internet access once again as an information service.\n\nNetwork neutrality is the principle that all Internet traffic should be treated equally. Internet traffic includes all of the different messages, files and data sent over the Internet, including, for example, emails, digital audio files, digital video files, etc. According to Columbia Law School professor Tim Wu, the best way to explain network neutrality is that a public information network will end up being most useful if all content, websites, and platforms (e.g., mobile devices, video game consoles, etc.) are treated equally.\n\nA more detailed proposed definition of technical and service network neutrality suggests that service network neutrality is the loyalty to the paradigm that operation of a service at a certain layer is not influenced by any data other than the data interpreted at that layer, and in accordance with the protocol specification for that layer.\n\nUnder an \"open Internet\" system, the full resources of the Internet and means to operate on it should be easily accessible to all individuals, companies, and organizations.\n\nApplicable concepts include: net neutrality, open standards, transparency, lack of Internet censorship, and low barriers to entry. The concept of the open Internet is sometimes expressed as an expectation of decentralized technological power, and is seen by some observers as closely related to open-source software, a type of software program whose maker allows users access to the code that runs the program, so that users can improve the software or fix bugs.\n\nProponents of net neutrality see this as an important component of an \"open Internet\", wherein policies such as equal treatment of data and open web standards allow those using the Internet to easily communicate, and conduct business and activities without interference from a third party.\n\nIn contrast, a \"closed Internet\" refers to the opposite situation, wherein established persons, corporations, or governments favour certain uses, restrict access to necessary web standards, artificially degrade some services, or explicitly filter out content. Some countries block certain websites or types of sites, and monitor and/or censor Internet use using Internet police, a specialized type of law enforcement, or secret police.\n\nThe concept of a \"dumb network\", comprising \"dumb pipes\", has been around since at least the early 1990s. The term \"dumb network\" refers to a network which is set up but has little or no control or management of the way users make use of the network. The term \"dumb pipes\" is analogous to water pipes used in a city water supply system; in theory, these pipes provide a steady supply of water to all users, regardless of the identity of the user or the users' activities with the water.\n\nIn a \"dumb network\", the endpoints are thought to be where the intelligence lies, and as such, proponents argue that the network should leave the management and operation of communications and data transfer to the end users, not a government bureau or Internet company. In 2013, the software company MetroTech Net, Inc. (MTN) coined the term \"dumb wave\", which is the 2010s-era application of the \"dumb pipe\" concept to the ubiquitous wireless network.\n\nExperts in the high-technology field will often compare these dumb pipe concept with intelligent networks –also known as smart pipes—and debate which one is best applied to a certain portion of internet policy. These conversations usually refer to these two concepts as being analogous to the concepts of open and closed Internet respectively. As such, certain models have been made that aim to outline four layers of the Internet with the understanding of the dumb pipe theory:\n\nThe end-to-end principle of network design was first laid out in the 1981 paper \"End-to-end arguments in system design\" by Jerome H. Saltzer, David P. Reed, and David D. Clark. The principle states that, whenever possible, communications protocol operations should be defined to occur at the end-points of a communications system, or as close as possible to the resources being controlled. According to the end-to-end principle, protocol features are only justified in the lower layers of a system if they are a performance optimization; hence, TCP retransmission for reliability is still justified, but efforts to improve TCP reliability should stop after peak performance has been reached.\n\nThey argued that reliable systems tend to require end-to-end processing to operate correctly, in addition to any processing in the intermediate system. They pointed out that most features in the lowest level of a communications system have costs for all higher-layer clients, even if those clients do not need the features, and are redundant if the clients have to re-implement the features on an end-to-end basis. This leads to the model of a minimal dumb network with smart terminals, a completely different model from the previous paradigm of the smart network with dumb terminals. Because the end-to-end principle is one of the central design principles of the Internet, and because the practical means for implementing data discrimination violate the end-to-end principle, the principle often enters discussions about net neutrality. The end-to-end principle is closely related, and sometimes seen as a direct precursor to the principle of net neutrality.\n\nTraffic shaping is the control of computer network traffic to optimize or guarantee performance, improve latency (i.e., decrease Internet response times), and/or increase usable bandwidth by delaying \"packets\" that meet certain criteria. In practice, traffic shaping is often accomplished by \"throttling\" certain types of data, such as streaming video or P2P file sharing. More specifically, traffic shaping is any action on a set of packets (often called a stream or a flow) which imposes additional delay on those packets such that they conform to some predetermined constraint (a contract or traffic profile). Traffic shaping provides a means to control the volume of traffic being sent into a network in a specified period (bandwidth throttling), or the maximum rate at which the traffic is sent (rate limiting), or more complex criteria such as generic cell rate algorithm.\n\nIf the core of a network has more bandwidth than is permitted to enter at the edges, then good quality of service (QoS) can be obtained without policing or throttling. For example, landline telephone network employs admission control to limit user demand on the network core by refusing to create a circuit for the requested connection. During a natural disaster, for example, most users will get a busy signal if they pick up a landline phone, as the phone company prioritizes 9-1-1 and other emergency calls. Over-provisioning is a form of statistical multiplexing that makes liberal estimates of peak user demand. Over-provisioning is used in private networks such as WebEx and the Internet 2 Abilene Network, an American university network. David Isenberg believes that continued over-provisioning will always provide more capacity for less expense than QoS and deep packet inspection technologies.\n\nDevice neutrality is the principle that in order to ensure freedom of choice and freedom of communication for users of network-connected devices, it is not sufficient that network operators do not interfere with their choices and activities; users must be free to use applications of their choice and hence remove the applications they do not want.\n\nIt can be defined with the following analogy to network neutrality:\n\nNetwork neutrality: Neutrality principles are codified \"ex-ante\", and a judicial route is available for redress. Connectivity providers can implement traffic management, but the rules must be the same for everyone. The antitrust alternative, takes more time and offers few precedents.\n\nDevice neutrality: Similarly, neutrality principles are codified \"ex-ante\" and avail judicial remedies. Device vendors can establish policies for managing applications, but they, too, must be applied neutrally.\n\nAn unsuccessful bill to enforce network and device neutrality was introduced in Italy in 2015 by Hon. Stefano Quintarelli. The law gained formal support at the European Commission by BEUC, the European Consumer Organisation, the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Hermes Center for Transparency and digital human rights. A similar law was enacted in South Korea. Similar principles were proposed in China. The French telecoms regulator ARCEP has called for the introduction of Device Neutrality in Europe.\n\nDiscrimination by protocol is the favouring or blocking information based on aspects of the communications protocol that the computers are using to communicate. In the US, a complaint was filed with the Federal Communications Commission against the cable provider Comcast alleging they had illegally inhibited users of its high-speed Internet service from using the popular file-sharing software BitTorrent. Comcast admitted no wrongdoing in its proposed settlement of up to 16 dollars per share in December 2009. However, a U.S. appeals court ruled in April 2010 that the FCC exceeded its authority when it sanctioned Comcast in 2008 for deliberately preventing some subscribers from using peer-to-peer file-sharing services to download large files. However, the FCC spokeswoman Jen Howard responded, \"the court in no way disagreed with the importance of preserving a free and open Internet, nor did it close the door to other methods for achieving this important end [goal]\". Despite the ruling in favour of Comcast, a study by \"Measurement Lab\" in October 2011 verified that Comcast had virtually stopped its BitTorrent throttling practices.\n\nDuring the 1990s, creating a non-neutral Internet was technically infeasible. Originally developed to filter harmful malware, the Internet security company NetScreen Technologies released network firewalls in 2003 with so-called deep packet inspection capabilities. Deep packet inspection helped make real-time discrimination between different kinds of data possible, and is often used for Internet censorship. In a practice called zero-rating, companies will reimburse data use from certain addresses, favoring use of those services. Examples include Facebook Zero and Google Free Zone. These zero-rating practices are especially common in the developing world.\n\nSometimes Internet Service Providers (ISPs) will charge some companies, but not others, for the traffic they cause on the ISP's network. French telecom operator Orange, complaining that traffic from YouTube and other Google sites consist of roughly 50% of total traffic on the Orange network, made a deal with Google, in which they charge Google for the traffic incurred on the Orange network. Some also thought that Orange's rival ISP Free throttled YouTube traffic. However, an investigation done by the French telecommunications regulatory body revealed that the network was simply congested during peak hours.\n\nAside from the zero-rating method, ISPs will also use certain strategies to reduce costs of pricing plans such as the use of sponsored data. In a scenario where a sponsored data plan is used, a third-party will step in and pay for all the content that it (or the carrier or consumer) does not want around. This is generally used as a way for ISP's to remove out-of-pocket costs from subscribers.\n\nOne of the criticisms regarding discrimination is that the system set up by ISPs for this purpose is capable of not only discriminating but also scrutinizing full-packet content of communications. For instance, the deep packet inspection technology installs intelligence within the lower layers in the work to discover and identify the source, type, and destination of packets, revealing information about packets traveling in the physical infrastructure so it can dictate the quality of transport such packet will receive. This is seen as an architecture of surveillance, one that can be shared with intelligence agencies, copyrighted content owners, and civil litigants, exposing the users' secrets in the process.\n\nProponents of net neutrality argue that without new regulations, Internet service providers would be able to favor their own private protocols over others. ISPs are able to encourage the use of specific services by using private networks to discriminate what data is counted against bandwidth caps. For example, Comcast struck a deal with Microsoft that allowed users to stream television through the Xfinity app on their Xbox 360s without it affecting their bandwidth limit. However, utilizing other television streaming apps, such as Netflix, HBO Go, and Hulu, counted towards the limit. Comcast denied that this infringed on net neutrality principles since \"it runs its Xfinity for Xbox service on its own, private Internet protocol network\".\n\nThere is some disagreement about whether \"peering\" is a net neutrality issue. In the first quarter of 2014, streaming website Netflix reached an arrangement with ISP Comcast to improve the quality of its service to Netflix clients. This arrangement was made in response to increasingly slow connection speeds through Comcast over the course of 2013, where average speeds dropped by over 25% of their values a year before to an all-time low. After the deal was struck in January 2014, the Netflix speed index recorded a 66% increase in connection. Netflix agreed to a similar deal with Verizon in 2014, after Verizon DSL customers' connection speed dropped to less than 1 Mbit/s early in the year. Netflix spoke out against this deal with a controversial statement delivered to all Verizon customers experiencing low connection speeds, using the Netflix client. This sparked an internal debate between the two companies that led to Verizon's obtaining a cease and desist order on 5 June 2014 that forced Netflix to stop displaying this message.\n\nPro-net neutrality arguments have also noted that regulations are also necessary due to research that has shown low-tolerance to slow-loading content providers. In a 2009 research study conducted by Forrester Research, online shoppers expected the web pages they visited to download content instantly. When a page fails to load at the expected speed, many of them simply click out. A study found that even a one-second delay could lead to \"11% fewer page views, a 16% decrease in customer satisfaction, and 7% loss in conversions\". This delay can cause a server problem to small innovators who have created new technology. If a website is slow by default, the general public will lose interest and favor a website that runs faster. This helps large corporate companies maintain power because they have the means to fund faster internet speeds. On the other hand, smaller competitors have less financial capabilities making it harder for them to succeed in the online world.\n\nLegal enforcement of net neutrality principles takes a variety of forms, from provisions that outlaw anti-competitive blocking and \"throttling\" of Internet services, all the way to legal enforcement that prevents companies from subsidizing Internet use on particular sites. Contrary to popular rhetoric and statements by various individuals involved in the ongoing academic debate, research suggests that a single policy instrument (such as a no-blocking policy or a quality of service tiering policy) cannot achieve the range of valued political and economic objectives central to the debate. As Bauer and Obar suggest, \"safeguarding multiple goals requires a combination of instruments that will likely involve government and nongovernment measures. Furthermore, promoting goals such as the freedom of speech, political participation, investment, and innovation calls for complementary policies.\"\n\nGovernments of countries which comment on net neutrality usually support the concept.\n\nNet neutrality in the United States has been a point of conflict between network users and service providers since the 1990s. On June 11, 2018 the landmark U.S. net neutrality rules expired and new regulations gave broad power to service providers regarding how consumers can access the internet. Because the rules ended, various states (including California), created their own net neutrality rules.\n\nNet neutrality in Canada is a debated issue in that nation, but not to the degree of partisanship in other nations such as the United States in part because of its federal regulatory structure and pre-existing supportive laws that were enacted decades before the debate arose. In Canada, Internet service providers (ISPs) generally provide Internet service in a neutral manner. Some notable incidents otherwise have included Bell Canada's throttling of certain protocols and Telus's censorship of a specific website critical of the company.\n\nIn the year 2018, the Indian Government unanimously approved new regulations supporting net neutrality. The regulations are considered to be the \"world's strongest\" net neutrality rules, guaranteeing free and open internet for nearly half a billion people, and are expected to help the culture of startups and innovation. The only exceptions to the rules are new and emerging services like autonomous driving and tele-medicine, which may require prioritised internet lanes and faster than normal speeds.\n\nProponents of net neutrality regulations include consumer advocates, human rights organizations such as Article 19, online companies and some technology companies. Many major Internet application companies are advocates of neutrality. Yahoo!, Vonage, eBay, Amazon, IAC/InterActiveCorp, Microsoft, Reddit, Twitter, Tumblr, Etsy, Daily Kos, Greenpeace, along with many other companies and organizations, have also taken a stance in support of net neutrality. Cogent Communications, an international Internet service provider, has made an announcement in favor of certain net neutrality policies.\n\nIn 2008, Google published a statement speaking out against letting broadband providers abuse their market power to affect access to competing applications or content. They further equated the situation to that of the telephony market, where telephone companies are not allowed to control who their customers call or what those customers are allowed to say. However, Google's support of net neutrality was called into question in 2014. Several civil rights groups, such as the ACLU, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Free Press, and Fight for the Future support net neutrality.\n\nIndividuals who support net neutrality include World Wide Web inventor Tim Berners-Lee, Vinton Cerf, Lawrence Lessig, Robert W. McChesney, Steve Wozniak, Susan P. Crawford, Marvin Ammori, Ben Scott, David Reed, and former U.S. President Barack Obama. On 10 November 2014, Obama recommended that the FCC reclassify broadband Internet service as a telecommunications service in order to preserve net neutrality. On 12 November 2014, AT&T stopped build-out of their fiber network until it has \"solid net neutrality rules to follow\". On 31 January 2015, AP News reported that the FCC will present the notion of applying (\"with some caveats\") Title II (common carrier) of the Communications Act of 1934 and section 706 of the Telecommunications act of 1996 to the Internet in a vote expected on 26 February 2015.\n\nSupporters of net neutrality in the United States want to designate cable companies as common carriers, which would require them to allow Internet service providers (ISPs) free access to cable lines, the same model used for dial-up Internet. They want to ensure that cable companies cannot screen, interrupt or filter Internet content without a court order. Common carrier status would give the FCC the power to enforce net neutrality rules. SaveTheInternet.com accuses cable and telecommunications companies of wanting the role of gatekeepers, being able to control which websites load quickly, load slowly, or do not load at all. According to SaveTheInternet.com these companies want to charge content providers who require guaranteed speedy data deliveryto create advantages for their own search engines, Internet phone services, and streaming video servicesand slowing access or blocking access to those of competitors. Vinton Cerf, a co-inventor of the Internet Protocol and current vice president of Google, argues that the Internet was designed without any authorities controlling access to new content or new services. He concludes that the principles responsible for making the Internet such a success would be fundamentally undermined were broadband carriers given the ability to affect what people see and do online. Cerf has also written about the importance of looking at problems like Net Neutrality through a combination of the Internet's layered system and the multistakeholder model that governs it. He shows how challenges can arise that can implicate Net Neutrality in certain infrastructure-based cases, such as when ISPs enter into exclusive arrangements with large building owners, leaving the residents unable to exercise any choice in broadband provider.\n\nProponents of net neutrality argue that a neutral net will foster free speech and lead to further democratic participation on the Internet. Former Senator Al Franken from Minnesota fears that without new regulations, the major Internet Service Providers will use their position of power to stifle people's rights. He calls net neutrality the \"First Amendment issue of our time\". By ensuring that all people and websites have equal access to each other, regardless of their ability to pay, proponents of net neutrality wish to prevent the need to pay for speech and the further centralization of media power. Lawrence Lessig and Robert W. McChesney argue that net neutrality ensures that the Internet remains a free and open technology, fostering democratic communication. Lessig and McChesney go on to argue that the monopolization of the Internet would stifle the diversity of independent news sources and the generation of innovative and novel web content.\n\n Proponents of net neutrality invoke the human psychological process of adaptation where when people get used to something better, they would not ever want to go back to something worse. In the context of the Internet, the proponents argue that a user who gets used to the \"fast lane\" on the Internet would find the \"slow lane\" intolerable in comparison, greatly disadvantaging any provider who is unable to pay for the \"fast lane\". Video providers Netflix and Vimeo in their comments to FCC in favor of net neutrality use the research of S.S. Krishnan and Ramesh Sitaraman that provides the first quantitative evidence of adaptation to speed among online video users. Their research studied the patience level of millions of Internet video users who waited for a slow-loading video to start playing. Users who had a faster Internet connectivity, such as fiber-to-the-home, demonstrated less patience and abandoned their videos sooner than similar users with slower Internet connectivity. The results demonstrate how users can get used to faster Internet connectivity, leading to higher expectation of Internet speed, and lower tolerance for any delay that occurs. Author Nicholas Carr and other social commentators have written about the habituation phenomenon by stating that a faster flow of information on the Internet can make people less patient.\n\nNet neutrality advocates argue that allowing cable companies the right to demand a toll to guarantee quality or premium delivery would create an exploitative business model based on the ISPs position as gatekeepers. Advocates warn that by charging websites for access, network owners may be able to block competitor Web sites and services, as well as refuse access to those unable to pay. According to Tim Wu, cable companies plan to reserve bandwidth for their own television services, and charge companies a toll for priority service. Proponents of net neutrality argue that allowing for preferential treatment of Internet traffic, or tiered service, would put newer online companies at a disadvantage and slow innovation in online services. Tim Wu argues that, without network neutrality, the Internet will undergo a transformation from a market ruled by innovation to one ruled by deal-making. SaveTheInternet.com argues that net neutrality puts everyone on equal terms, which helps drive innovation. They claim it is a preservation of the way the Internet has always operated, where the quality of websites and services determined whether they succeeded or failed, rather than deals with ISPs. Lawrence Lessig and Robert W. McChesney argue that eliminating net neutrality would lead to the Internet resembling the world of cable TV, so that access to and distribution of content would be managed by a handful of massive, near monopolistic companies, though there are multiple service providers in each region. These companies would then control what is seen as well as how much it costs to see it. Speedy and secure Internet use for such industries as healthcare, finance, retailing, and gambling could be subject to large fees charged by these companies. They further explain that a majority of the great innovators in the history of the Internet started with little capital in their garages, inspired by great ideas. This was possible because the protections of net neutrality ensured limited control by owners of the networks, maximal competition in this space, and permitted innovators from outside access to the network. Internet content was guaranteed a free and highly competitive space by the existence of net neutrality. For example, back in 2005 YouTube was just a small startup company. Due to an absence of Internet fast lanes, YouTube had the ability to grow larger than Google Video. Tom Wheeler and Senators Ronald Lee Wyden (D-Ore.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.) said, \"Internet service providers treated YouTube's videos the same as they did Google's, and Google couldn't pay the ISPs [internet service providers] to gain an unfair advantage, like a fast lane into consumers' homes,\" they wrote. \"Well, it turned out that people liked YouTube a lot more than Google Video, so YouTube thrived.\"\n\nNet neutrality advocates have sponsored legislation claiming that authorizing incumbent network providers to override transport and application layer separation on the Internet would signal the decline of fundamental Internet standards and international consensus authority. Further, the legislation asserts that bit-shaping the transport of application data will undermine the transport layer's designed flexibility.\n\nAlok Bhardwaj, founder of Epic Privacy Browser, argues that any violations to network neutrality, realistically speaking, will not involve genuine investment but rather payoffs for unnecessary and dubious services. He believes that it is unlikely that new investment will be made to lay special networks for particular websites to reach end-users faster. Rather, he believes that non-net neutrality will involve leveraging quality of service to extract remuneration from websites that want to avoid being slowed down. This theory was confirmed in 2014 when Netflix announced it was making payments to Comcast and Verizon to avoid throttling, slower internet speeds for particular services or websites, by those ISPs. These payments were described by Netflix founder Reed Hastings as \"an arbitrary tax\" and \"arbitrary interconnection tolls\".\n\nSome advocates say network neutrality is needed in order to maintain the end-to-end principle. According to Lawrence Lessig and Robert W. McChesney, all content must be treated the same and must move at the same speed in order for net neutrality to be true. They say that it is this simple but brilliant end-to-end aspect that has allowed the Internet to act as a powerful force for economic and social good. Under this principle, a neutral network is a dumb network, merely passing packets regardless of the applications they support. This point of view was expressed by David S. Isenberg in his paper, \"The Rise of the Stupid Network\". He states that the vision of an intelligent network is being replaced by a new network philosophy and architecture in which the network is designed for always-on use, not intermittence and scarcity. Rather than intelligence being designed into the network itself, the intelligence would be pushed out to the end-user's device; and the network would be designed simply to deliver bits without fancy network routing or smart number translation. The data would be in control, telling the network where it should be sent. End-user devices would then be allowed to behave flexibly, as bits would essentially be free and there would be no assumption that the data is of a single data rate or data type.\n\nContrary to this idea, the research paper titled \"End-to-end arguments in system design\" by Saltzer, Reed, and Clark argues that network intelligence does not relieve end systems of the requirement to check inbound data for errors and to rate-limit the sender, nor for a wholesale removal of intelligence from the network core.\n\nOpponents of net neutrality regulations include Internet service providers (ISPs), broadband and telecommunications companies, computer hardware manufacturers, economists, and notable technologists. Many of the major hardware and telecommunications companies specifically oppose the reclassification of broadband as a common carrier under Title II. Corporate opponents of this measure include Comcast, AT&T, Verizon, IBM, Intel, Cisco, Nokia, Qualcomm, Broadcom, Juniper, D-Link, Wintel, Alcatel-Lucent, Corning, Panasonic, Ericsson, Oracle, Akamai, and others. The US Telecom and Broadband Association, which represents a diverse array of small and large broadband providers, is also an opponent.\n\nNobel Memorial Prize-winning economist Gary Becker's paper titled, \"Net Neutrality and Consumer Welfare\", published by the \"Journal of Competition Law & Economics\", argues that claims by net neutrality proponents \"do not provide a compelling rationale for regulation\" because there is \"significant and growing competition\" among broadband access providers. Google Chairman Eric Schmidt states that, while Google views that similar data types should not be discriminated against, it is okay to discriminate across different data types—a position that both Google and Verizon generally agree on, according to Schmidt. According to the Journal, when President Barack Obama announced his support for strong net neutrality rules late in 2014, Schmidt told a top White House official the president was making a mistake. Google once strongly advocated net-neutrality–like rules prior to 2010, but their support for the rules has since diminished; the company however still remains \"committed\" to net neutrality.\n\nIndividuals who oppose net neutrality rules include TCP/IP inventor Bob Kahn, Netscape founder Marc Andreessen, Sun Microsystems founder Scott McNealy, PayPal founders Peter Thiel and Max Levchin, \"Grandfather of the Internet\" David Farber, Internet pioneer David Clark, packet switching pioneer Louis Pouzin, MIT Media Lab founder Nicholas Negroponte, Nokia's CEO Rajeev Suri, VOIP pioneer Jeff Pulver, entrepreneur Mark Cuban and FCC Chairman Ajit Pai.\n\nNobel Prize laureate economists who oppose net neutrality rules include Princeton economist Angus Deaton, Chicago economist Richard Thaler, MIT economist Bengt Holmström, and the late Chicago economist Gary Becker. Others include MIT economists David Autor, Amy Finkelstein, and Richard Schmalensee; Stanford economists Raj Chetty, Darrell Duffie, Caroline Hoxby, and Kenneth Judd; Harvard economist Alberto Alesina; Berkeley economists Alan Auerbach and Emmanuel Saez; and Yale economists William Nordhaus, Joseph Altonji and Pinelopi Goldberg.\n\nSeveral civil rights groups, such as the National Urban League, Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/PUSH, and League of United Latin American Citizens, also oppose Title II net neutrality regulations, who said that the call to regulate broadband Internet service as a utility would harm minority communities by stifling investment in underserved areas.\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation, which runs Wikipedia, told the Washington Post that it has a \"complicated relationship\" with net neutrality. The organization partnered with telecommunications companies to provide free access to Wikipedia for people in developing countries, under a program called Wikipedia Zero, without requiring mobile data to access information. The concept is known as zero rating. Said Wikimedia Foundation officer Gayle Karen Young, \"Partnering with telecom companies in the near term, it blurs the net neutrality line in those areas. It fulfills our overall mission, though, which is providing free knowledge.\"\n\nA number of other opponents created \"Hands Off The Internet\", a website created in 2006 to promote arguments against Internet regulation. Principal financial support for the website came from AT&T, and members included BellSouth, Alcatel, Cingular, and Citizens Against Government Waste.\n\nRobert Pepper, a senior managing director, global advanced technology policy, at Cisco Systems, and former FCC chief of policy development, says: \"The supporters of net neutrality regulation believe that more rules are necessary. In their view, without greater regulation, service providers might parcel out bandwidth or services, creating a bifurcated world in which the wealthy enjoy first-class Internet access, while everyone else is left with slow connections and degraded content. That scenario, however, is a false paradigm. Such an all-or-nothing world doesn't exist today, nor will it exist in the future. Without additional regulation, service providers are likely to continue doing what they are doing. They will continue to offer a variety of broadband service plans at a variety of price points to suit every type of consumer\". Computer scientist Bob Kahn has said net neutrality is a slogan that would freeze innovation in the core of the Internet.\n\nFarber has written and spoken strongly in favor of continued research and development on core Internet protocols. He joined academic colleagues Michael Katz, Christopher Yoo, and Gerald Faulhaber in an op-ed for the \"Washington Post\" strongly critical of network neutrality, essentially stating that while the Internet is in need of remodeling, congressional action aimed at protecting the best parts of the current Internet could interfere with efforts to build a replacement.\n\nAccording to a letter to FCC commissioners and key congressional leaders sent by 60 major ISP technology suppliers including IBM, Intel, Qualcomm, and Cisco, Title II regulation of the Internet \"means that instead of billions of broadband investment driving other sectors of the economy forward, any reduction in this spending will stifle growth across the entire economy. This is not idle speculation or fear mongering...Title II is going to lead to a slowdown, if not a hold, in broadband build out, because if you don't know that you can recover on your investment, you won't make it.\" According to the \"Wall Street Journal\", in one of Google's few lobbying sessions with FCC officials, the company urged the agency to craft rules that encourage investment in broadband Internet networks—a position that mirrors the argument made by opponents of strong net neutrality rules, such as AT&T and Comcast. Opponents of net neutrality argue that prioritization of bandwidth is necessary for future innovation on the Internet. Telecommunications providers such as telephone and cable companies, and some technology companies that supply networking gear, argue telecom providers should have the ability to provide preferential treatment in the form of tiered services, for example by giving online companies willing to pay the ability to transfer their data packets faster than other Internet traffic. The added income from such services could be used to pay for the building of increased broadband access to more consumers.\n\nOpponents say that net neutrality would make it more difficult for Internet service providers (ISPs) and other network operators to recoup their investments in broadband networks. John Thorne, senior vice president and deputy general counsel of Verizon, a broadband and telecommunications company, has argued that they will have no incentive to make large investments to develop advanced fibre-optic networks if they are prohibited from charging higher preferred access fees to companies that wish to take advantage of the expanded capabilities of such networks. Thorne and other ISPs have accused Google and Skype of freeloading or free riding for using a network of lines and cables the phone company spent billions of dollars to build. Marc Andreessen states that \"a pure net neutrality view is difficult to sustain if you also want to have continued investment in broadband networks. If you're a large telco right now, you spend on the order of $20 billion a year on capex [capital expenditure]. You need to know how you're going to get a return on that investment. If you have these pure net neutrality rules where you can never charge a company like Netflix anything, you're not ever going to get a return on continued network investment — which means you'll stop investing in the network. And I would not want to be sitting here 10 or 20 years from now with the same broadband speeds we're getting today.\"\n\nProponents of net neutrality regulations say network operators have continued to under-invest in infrastructure. However, according to Copenhagen Economics, U.S. investment in telecom infrastructure is 50 percent higher than in the European Union. As a share of GDP, the United States' broadband investment rate per GDP trails only the UK and South Korea slightly, but exceeds Japan, Canada, Italy, Germany, and France sizably. On broadband speed, Akamai reported that the US trails only South Korea and Japan among its major trading partners, and trails only Japan in the G-7 in both average peak connection speed and percentage of the population connection at 10 Mbit/s or higher, but are substantially ahead of most of its other major trading partners.\n\nThe White House reported in June 2013 that U.S. connection speeds are \"the fastest compared to other countries with either a similar population or land mass\". Akamai's report on \"The State of the Internet\" in the 2nd quarter of 2014 says \"a total of 39 states saw 4K readiness rate more than double over the past year\". In other words, as ZDNet reports, those states saw a \"major\" increase in the availability of the 15Mbit/s speed needed for 4K video. According to the Progressive Policy Institute and ITU data, the United States has the most affordable entry-level prices for fixed broadband in the OECD.\n\nIn Indonesia, there is a very high number of Internet connections that are subjected to exclusive deals between the ISP and the building owner, and changing this dynamic could unlock much more consumer choice and higher speeds. FCC Commissioner Ajit Pai and Federal Election Commission's Lee Goldman wrote in a Politico piece in February 2015, \"Compare Europe, which has long had utility-style regulations, with the United States, which has embraced a light-touch regulatory model. Broadband speeds in the United States, both wired and wireless, are significantly faster than those in Europe. Broadband investment in the United States is several multiples that of Europe. And broadband's reach is much wider in the United States, despite its much lower population density.\"\n\nVOIP pioneer Jeff Pulver states that the uncertainty of the FCC imposing Title II, which experts said would create regulatory restrictions on using the Internet to transmit a voice call, was the \"single greatest impediment to innovation\" for a decade. According to Pulver, investors in the companies he helped found, like Vonage, held back investment because they feared the FCC could use Title II to prevent VOIP startups from bypassing telephone networks.\n\nA 2010 paper on net neutrality by Nobel Prize economist Gary Becker and his colleagues stated that \"there is significant and growing competition among broadband access providers and that few significant competitive problems have been observed to date, suggesting that there is no compelling competitive rationale for such regulation\". Becker and fellow economists Dennis Carlton and Hal Sidler found that \"Between mid-2002 and mid-2008, the number of high-speed broadband access lines in the United States grew from 16 million to nearly 133 million, and the number of residential broadband lines grew from 14 million to nearly 80 million. Internet traffic roughly tripled between 2007 and 2009. At the same time, prices for broadband Internet access services have fallen sharply.\" The PPI reports that the profit margins of U.S. broadband providers are generally one-sixth to one-eighth of companies that use broadband (such as Apple or Google), contradicting the idea of monopolistic price-gouging by providers.\n\nWhen FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler redefined broadband from 4 Mbit/s to 25 Mbit/s (3.125 MB/s) or greater in January 2015, FCC commissioners Ajit Pai and Mike O'Reilly believed the redefinition was to set up the agency's intent to settle the net neutrality fight with new regulations. The commissioners argued that the stricter speed guidelines painted the broadband industry as less competitive, justifying the FCC's moves with Title II net neutrality regulations.\n\nA report by the Progressive Policy Institute in June 2014 argues that nearly every American can choose from at least 2-4 broadband Internet service providers, despite claims that there are only a \"small number\" of broadband providers. Citing research from the FCC, the Institute wrote that 90 percent of American households have access to at least one wired and one wireless broadband provider at speeds of at least 4 Mbit/s (500 kbyte/s) downstream and 1 Mbit/s (125 kbyte/s) upstream and that nearly 88 percent of Americans can choose from at least two wired providers of broadband disregarding speed (typically choosing between a cable and telco offering). Further, three of the four national wireless companies report that they offer 4G LTE to 250–300 million Americans, with the fourth (T-Mobile) sitting at 209 million and counting. Similarly, the FCC reported in June 2008 that 99.8% of ZIP codes in the United States had two or more providers of high speed Internet lines available, and 94.6% of ZIP codes had four or more providers, as reported by University of Chicago economists Gary Becker, Dennis Carlton, and Hal Sider in a 2010 paper.\n\nFCC commissioner Ajit Pai states that the FCC completely brushes away the concerns of smaller competitors who are going to be subject to various taxes, such as state property taxes and general receipts taxes. As a result, according to Pai, that does nothing to create more competition within the market. According to Pai, the FCC's ruling to impose Title II regulations is opposed by the country's smallest private competitors and many municipal broadband providers. In his dissent, Pai noted that 142 wireless ISPs (WISPs) said that FCC's new \"regulatory intrusion into our businesses ... would likely force us to raise prices, delay deployment expansion, or both\". He also noted that 24 of the country's smallest ISPs, each with fewer than 1,000 residential broadband customers, wrote to the FCC stating that Title II \"will badly strain our limited resources\" because they \"have no in-house attorneys and no budget line items for outside counsel\". Further, another 43 municipal broadband providers told the FCC that Title II \"will trigger consequences beyond the Commission's control and risk serious harm to our ability to fund and deploy broadband without bringing any concrete benefit for consumers or edge providers that the market is not already proving today without the aid of any additional regulation\".\n\nAccording to a \"Wired\" magazine article by TechFreedom's Berin Szoka, Matthew Starr, and Jon Henke, local governments and public utilities impose the most significant barriers to entry for more cable broadband competition: \"While popular arguments focus on supposed 'monopolists' such as big cable companies, it's government that's really to blame.\" The authors state that local governments and their public utilities charge ISPs far more than they actually cost and have the final say on whether an ISP can build a network. The public officials determine what requirements an ISP must meet to get approval for access to publicly owned \"rights of way\" (which lets them place their wires), thus reducing the number of potential competitors who can profitably deploy Internet service—such as AT&T's U-Verse, Google Fiber, and Verizon FiOS. Kickbacks may include municipal requirements for ISPs such as building out service where it is not demanded, donating equipment, and delivering free broadband to government buildings.\n\nAccording to a research article from MIS Quarterly, the authors stated their findings subvert some of the expectations of how ISPs and CPs act regarding Net Neutrality laws. The paper shows that even if an ISP is under restrictions, it still has the opportunity and the incentive to act as a gatekeeper over CPs by enforcing priority delivery of content.\n\nThose in favor of forms of non-neutral tiered Internet access argue that the Internet is already not a level playing field, that large companies achieve a performance advantage over smaller competitors by providing more and better-quality servers and buying high-bandwidth services. Should scrapping of net neutrality regulations precipitate a price drop for lower levels of access, or access to only certain protocols, for instance, such would make Internet usage more adaptable to the needs of those individuals and corporations who specifically seek differentiated tiers of service. Network expert Richard Bennett has written, \"A richly funded Web site, which delivers data faster than its competitors to the front porches of the Internet service providers, wants it delivered the rest of the way on an equal basis. This system, which Google calls broadband neutrality, actually preserves a more fundamental inequality.\"\n\nFCC commissioner Ajit Pai, who opposed the 2015 Title II reclassification of ISPs, says that the ruling allows new fees and taxes on broadband by subjecting them to the telephone-style taxes under the Universal Service Fund. Net neutrality proponent Free Press writes,\"the average potential increase in taxes and fees per household would be far less\" than the estimate given by net neutrality opponents, and that if there were to be additional taxes, the tax figure may be around US$4 billion. Under favorable circumstances, \"the increase would be exactly zero\". Meanwhile, the Progressive Policy Institute claims that Title II could trigger taxes and fees up to $11 billion a year. Financial website \"Nerd Wallet\" did their own assessment and settled on a possible US$6.25 billion tax impact, estimating that the average American household may see their tax bill increase US$67 annually.\n\nFCC spokesperson Kim Hart said that the ruling \"does not raise taxes or fees. Period.\" However, the opposing commissioner, Ajit Pai, claims that \"the plan explicitly opens the door to billions of dollars in new taxes on broadband ... These new taxes will mean higher prices for consumers and more hidden fees that they have to pay.\" Pai explained, \"One avenue for higher bills is the new taxes and fees that will be applied to broadband. Here's the background. If you look at your phone bill, you'll see a 'Universal Service Fee', or something like it. These fees – what most Americans would call taxes – are paid by Americans on their telephone service. They funnel about $9 billion each year through the FCC. Consumers haven't had to pay these taxes on their broadband bills because broadband has never before been a Title II service. But now it is. And so the Order explicitly opens the door to billions of dollars in new taxes.\"\n\nAccording to PayPal founder and Facebook investor Peter Thiel in 2011, \"Net neutrality has not been necessary to date. I don't see any reason why it's suddenly become important, when the Internet has functioned quite well for the past 15 years without it. ... Government attempts to regulate technology have been extraordinarily counterproductive in the past.\" Max Levchin, the other co-founder of PayPal, echoed similar statements, telling CNBC, \"The Internet is not broken, and it got here without government regulation and probably in part because of lack of government regulation.\" \n\nFCC Commissioner Ajit Pai, who was one of the two commissioners who opposed the net neutrality proposal, criticized the FCC's ruling on Internet neutrality, stating that the perceived threats from ISPs to deceive consumers, degrade content, or disfavor the content that they dislike are non-existent: \"The evidence of these continuing threats? There is none; it's all anecdote, hypothesis, and hysteria. A small ISP in North Carolina allegedly blocked VoIP calls a decade ago. Comcast capped BitTorrent traffic to ease upload congestion eight years ago. Apple introduced Facetime over Wi-Fi first, cellular networks later. Examples this picayune and stale aren't enough to tell a coherent story about net neutrality. The bogeyman never had it so easy.\" FCC Commissioner Mike O'Reilly, the other opposing commissioner, also claims that the ruling is a solution to a hypothetical problem, \"Even after enduring three weeks of spin, it is hard for me to believe that the Commission is establishing an entire Title II/net neutrality regime to protect against hypothetical harms. There is not a shred of evidence that any aspect of this structure is necessary. The D.C. Circuit called the prior, scaled-down version a 'prophylactic' approach. I call it guilt by imagination.\" In a \"Chicago Tribune\" article, FCC Commissioner Pai and Joshua Wright of the Federal Trade Commission argue that \"the Internet isn't broken, and we don't need the president's plan to 'fix' it. Quite the opposite. The Internet is an unparalleled success story. It is a free, open and thriving platform.\"\n\nOpponents argue that net neutrality regulations prevent service providers from providing more affordable Internet access to those who can't afford it. A concept known as \"zero-rating\", ISPs would be unable to provide Internet access for free or at a reduced cost to the poor under net neutrality rules.\n\nFor example, low-income users who can't afford bandwidth-hogging Internet services such as video streams could be exempted from paying through subsidies or advertising. However, under the rules, ISPs would not be able to discriminate traffic, thus forcing low-income users to pay for high-bandwidth usage like other users.\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation, which runs Wikipedia, created Wikipedia Zero to provide Wikipedia free-of-charge on mobile phones to low-income users, especially those in developing countries. However, the practice violates net neutrality rules as traffic would have to be treated equally regardless of the users' ability to pay.\n\nIn 2014, Chile banned the practice of internet service providers giving users free access to websites like Wikipedia and Facebook, saying the practice violates net neutrality rules. In 2016, India banned Internet.org's Free Basics application, which provides users in less developed countries with free access to a variety of websites like Wikipedia, BBC, Dictionary.com, health sites, Facebook, ESPN, and weather reports—ruling that the initiative violated net neutrality.\n\nNet neutrality rules would prevent traffic from being allocated to the most needed users, according to Internet Pioneer David Farber. Because net neutrality regulations prevent a discrimination of traffic, networks would have to treat critical traffic equally with non-critical traffic. According to Farber, \"When traffic surges beyond the ability of the network to carry it, something is going to be delayed. When choosing what gets delayed, it makes sense to allow a network to favor traffic from, say, a patient's heart monitor over traffic delivering a music download. It also makes sense to allow network operators to restrict traffic that is downright harmful, such as viruses, worms and spam.\"\n\nTim Wu, though a proponent of network neutrality, claims that the current Internet is not neutral as its implementation of best effort generally favors file transfer and other non-time-sensitive traffic over real-time communications. Generally, a network which blocks some nodes or services for the customers of the network would normally be expected to be less useful to the customers than one that did not. Therefore, for a network to remain significantly non-neutral requires either that the customers not be concerned about the particular non-neutralities or the customers not have any meaningful choice of providers, otherwise they would presumably switch to another provider with fewer restrictions.\n\nWhile the network neutrality debate continues, network providers often enter into peering arrangements among themselves. These agreements often stipulate how certain information flows should be treated. In addition, network providers often implement various policies such as blocking of port 25 to prevent insecure systems from serving as spam relays, or other ports commonly used by decentralized music search applications implementing peer-to-peer networking models. They also present terms of service that often include rules about the use of certain applications as part of their contracts with users. Most consumer Internet providers implement policies like these. The MIT Mantid Port Blocking Measurement Project is a measurement effort to characterize Internet port blocking and potentially discriminatory practices. However, the effect of peering arrangements among network providers are only local to the peers that enter into the arrangements and cannot affect traffic flow outside their scope.\n\nJon Peha from Carnegie Mellon University believes it is important to create policies that protect users from harmful traffic discrimination while allowing beneficial discrimination. Peha discusses the technologies that enable traffic discrimination, examples of different types of discrimination, and potential impacts of regulation. Google Chairman Eric Schmidt aligns Google's views on data discrimination with Verizon's: \"I want to be clear what we mean by Net neutrality: What we mean is if you have one data type like video, you don't discriminate against one person's video in favor of another. But it's okay to discriminate across different types. So you could prioritize voice over video. And there is general agreement with Verizon and Google on that issue.\" Echoing similar comments by Schmidt, Google's Chief Internet Evangelist and \"father of the Internet\", Vint Cerf, says that \"it's entirely possible that some applications needs far more latency, like games. Other applications need broadband streaming capability in order to deliver real-time video. Others don't really care as long as they can get the bits there, like e-mail or file transfers and things like that. But it should not be the case that the supplier of the access to the network mediates this on a competitive basis, but you may still have different kinds of service depending on what the requirements are for the different applications.\"\n\nContent caching is the process by which frequently accessed contents are temporarily stored in strategic network positions (e.g., in servers close to the end-users) to achieve several performance objectives. For example, caching is commonly used by ISPs to reduce network congestion and results in a superior quality of experience (QoE) perceived by the final users.\n\nSince the storage available in cache servers is limited, caching involves a process of selection of the contents worth storing. Several cache algorithms have been designed to perform this process which, in general, leads to store the most popular contents. The cached contents are retrieved at a higher QoE (e.g., lower latency) and caching can be therefore considered a form of traffic differentiation. However, caching is not generally viewed as a form of discriminatory traffic differentiation. For example, the technical writer Adam Marcus states that \"accessing content from edge servers may be a bit faster for users, but nobody is being discriminated against and most content on the Internet is not latency-sensitive\". In line with this statement, caching is not regulated by legal frameworks that are favourable to Net Neutrality, such as the Open Internet Order issued by the FCC in 2015. Even more so, the legitimacy of caching has never been put in doubt by opponents of Net Neutrality. On the contrary, the complexity of caching operations (e.g., extensive information processing) has been successively regarded by the FCC as one of the technical reasons why ISPs should not be considered common carriers, which legitimates the abrogation of Net Neutrality rules. Under a Net Neutrality regime, prioritization of a class of traffic with respect to another one is allowed only if several requirements are met (e.g., objectively different QoS requirements). However, when it comes to caching, a selection of contents of the same class has to be performed (e.g., set of videos worth storing in cache servers). In the spirit of a general deregulation with regard to caching, there is not a rule that specifies how this process can be carried out in a non-discriminatory way. Nevertheless, the scientific literature considers the issue of caching as a potentially discriminatory process and provides possible guidelines to address it. For example, a non-discriminatory caching might be performed considering the popularity of contents, or with the aim of guaranteeing the same QoE to all the users, or, alternatively, to achieve some common welfare objectives.\n\nAs far as CDNs are concerned, the relation between caching and Net Neutrality is even more complex. In fact, CDNs are employed to allow a scalable and highly-efficient content delivery rather than to grant access to the Internet. Consequently, differently from ISPs, CDNs are entitled to charge content providers for caching their contents. Therefore, although this may be regarded as a form of paid traffic prioritization, CDNs are not subject of Net Neutrality regulations and are rarely included in the debate. Despite of this, it is argued by some that the Internet ecosystem has changed to such an extent that all the players involved in the content delivery can distort competition and should be therefore also included in the discussion around Net Neutrality. Among those, the analyst Dan Rayburn suggested that \"the Open Internet Order enacted by the FCC in 2015 was myopically focussed on ISPs\".\n\nInternet routers forward packets according to the diverse peering and transport agreements that exist between network operators. Many networks using Internet protocols now employ quality of service (QoS), and Network Service Providers frequently enter into Service Level Agreements with each other embracing some sort of QoS. There is no single, uniform method of interconnecting networks using IP, and not all networks that use IP are part of the Internet. IPTV networks are isolated from the Internet and are therefore not covered by network neutrality agreements. The IP datagram includes a 3-bit wide Precedence field and a larger DiffServ Code Point (DSCP) that are used to request a level of service, consistent with the notion that protocols in a layered architecture offer services through Service Access Points. This field is sometimes ignored, especially if it requests a level of service outside the originating network's contract with the receiving network. It is commonly used in private networks, especially those including Wi-Fi networks where priority is enforced. While there are several ways of communicating service levels across Internet connections, such as SIP, RSVP, IEEE 802.11e, and MPLS, the most common scheme combines SIP and DSCP. Router manufacturers now sell routers that have logic enabling them to route traffic for various Classes of Service at \"wire-speed\".\n\nQuality of service is sometimes taken as a measurement through certain tools to test a user's connection quality, such as Network Diagnostic Tools (NDT) and services on speedtest.net. These tools are known to be used by National Regulatory Authorities (NRAs), who use these QoS measurements as a way of detecting Net Neutrality violations. However, there are very few examples of such measurements being used in any significant way by NRAs, or in network policy for that matter. Often, these tools are used not because they fail at recording the results they are meant to record, but because said measurements are inflexible and difficult to exploit for any significant purpose. According to Ioannis Koukoutsidis, the problems with the current tools used to measure QoS stem from a lack of a standard detection methodology, a need to be able to detect various methods in which an ISP might violate Net Neutrality, and the inability to test an average measurement for a specific population of users.\n\nWith the emergence of multimedia, VoIP, IPTV, and other applications that benefit from low latency, various attempts to address the inability of some private networks to limit latency have arisen, including the proposition of offering tiered service levels that would shape Internet transmissions at the network layer based on application type. These efforts are ongoing, and are starting to yield results as wholesale Internet transport providers begin to amend service agreements to include service levels.\n\nAdvocates of net neutrality have proposed several methods to implement a net neutral Internet that includes a notion of quality-of-service:\n\nFounder of Epic Privacy Browser, Alok Bhardwaj, has argued that net neutrality preservation through legislation is consistent with implementing quality of service protocols. He argues legislation should ban the charging of fees for any quality of service, which would both allow networks to implement quality of service as well as remove any incentive to abuse net neutrality ideas. He argues that since implementing quality of service does not require any additional costs versus a non-QoS network, there is no reason implementing quality of service should entail any additional fees. However, the core network hardware needed (with large number of queues, etc.) and the cost of designing and maintaining a QoS network are both much higher than for a non-QoS network.\n\nThere are also some discrepancies in how wireless networks affect the implementation of net neutrality policy, some of which are noted in the studies of Christopher Yoo. In one research article, he claimed that \"...bad handoffs, local congestion, and the physics of wave propagation make wireless *broadband networks* significantly less reliable than fixed broadband networks.\"\n\nBroadband Internet access has most often been sold to users based on Excess Information Rate or maximum available bandwidth. If Internet service providers (ISPs) can provide varying levels of service to websites at various prices, this may be a way to manage the costs of unused capacity by selling surplus bandwidth (or \"leverage price discrimination to recoup costs of 'consumer surplus). However, purchasers of connectivity on the basis of Committed Information Rate or guaranteed bandwidth capacity must expect the capacity they purchase in order to meet their communications requirements. Various studies have sought to provide network providers the necessary formulas for adequately pricing such a tiered service for their customer base. But while network neutrality is primarily focused on protocol based provisioning, most of the pricing models are based on bandwidth restrictions.\n\nOn July 12, 2017, an event called the Day of Action was held to advocate net neutrality in the United States in response to Ajit Pai's plans to remove government policies that upheld net neutrality. Several websites participated in this event, including ones such as Amazon, Netflix, Google, and several other just as well-known websites. The gathering was called \"the largest online protest in history.\" Websites chose many different ways to convey their message. The founder of the web, Tim Berners-Lee, published a video defending FCC's rules. Reddit made a pop-up message that loads slowly to illustrate the effect of removing net neutrality. Other websites also put up some less obvious notifications, such as Amazon, who put up a hard-to-notice link, or Google, who put up policy blog post as opposed to a more obvious message.\n\nA poll conducted by Mozilla showed strong support for net neutrality across US political parties. Out of the approximately 1,000 responses received by the poll, 76% of Americans, 81% of Democrats, and 73% of Republicans, support net neutrality. The poll also showed that many Americans do not think that Trump's government can be trusted to protect access to the internet. Net neutrality supporters had also made several comments on the FCC website opposing plans to remove net neutrality, especially after a segment by John Oliver regarding this topic was aired on his show \"Last Week Tonight\". He urged his viewers to comment on the FCC's website, and the flood of comments that were received crashed the FCC's website, with the resulting media coverage of the incident inadvertently helping it to reach greater audiences. However, in response, Ajit Pai selected one particular comment that specifically supported removal of net neutrality policies.\n\nAt the end of August, the FCC released more than 13,000 pages of net neutrality complaints filed by consumers, yet it was released one day before the deadline for the public to comment on Ajit Pai's proposal to remove net neutrality. It has been implied that the FCC ignored evidence against their proposal in order to remove the protection laws faster. It has also been noted that nowhere was it mentioned how FCC made any attempt to resolve the complaints made. Regardless, Ajit Pai's proposal has drawn more than 22 million comments, though a large amount were spam. However, there were 1.5 million personalized comments, 98.5% of them protesting Ajit Pai's plan. \n\n, Fifty senators endorsed a legislative measure to override the Federal Communications Commission's decision to deregulate the broadband industry. The Congressional Review Act paperwork was filed on May 9, 2018 which allowed the Senate to vote on the permanence of the new net neutrality rules proposed by the FCC. The vote passed and a resolution was approved to try and remove the FCC's new rules on net neutrality; however, officials doubt there is enough time to completely repeal the rules before the Open Internet Order officially expired on June 11, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "52992503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992503", "title": "Palimony in the United States", "text": "Palimony in the United States\n\nPalimony is the division of financial assets and real property on the termination of a personal live-in relationship wherein the parties are not legally married. The term \"palimony\" is not a legal or historical term, but rather a colloquial portmanteau of the words \"pal\" and \"alimony\" coined by celebrity divorce attorney Marvin Mitchelson in 1977 when his client Michelle Triola Marvin filed an unsuccessful suit against the actor Lee Marvin. While the suit was unsuccessful in this instance, the courts found that \"in the absence of an express agreement, courts may look to a variety of other remedies to divide property equitably.\" It is unclear as to how many states currently expressly forbid any kind of palimony to be awarded—that is to say—how many states allow both partners in an unmarried cohabitation to expressly keep all that is under their own name including income and property, but it is widely recommended by legal offices across the country that, prior to committing to an unmarried but romantic cohabitation, the couple should enter into a legal cohabitation agreement prior to moving in together.\n\nUnlike alimony, which is typically provided for by law, palimony is not guaranteed to unmarried partners. There must be a clear agreement, written or oral, by both partners stipulating the extent of financial sharing or support in order for palimony to be granted. Palimony cases are determined in civil court as a contract matter rather than in family court as in cases of divorce. In the State of New Jersey, palimony cases are tried in Family Court.\n\nIn states that recognize palimony, there is variance in the factors that are taken into consideration by the court and the weight that these factors are given:\n\n\nOral or implied contracts are often taken into consideration also.\n\nIn 1983, only three states legally rejected palimony, but, as of 2016, twenty-four states legally reject palimony.\n\nMichelle Triola spent several years living with actor Lee Marvin. After their breakup, she legally adopted the surname Marvin despite never having been married to him and claimed he had promised to support her for the rest of her life. In the end, in \"Marvin v. Marvin\", the California Supreme Court ruled that Triola had not proven the existence of a contract between herself and Mr. Marvin that gave her an interest in his property. Thus, the common law rule applied to the situation without alteration, and she took away from the relationship and the household what she brought to it.\n\nThe court went on to explain that while the state abolished common law marriage in 1896, California law recognizes non-marital relationship contracts. These contracts may be express or implied, oral or written, but they must be provable in any case. The contract may also provide for a sexual relationship as long as it is not a contract for sexual services. Eventually, the California Court of Appeal ruled that, since Michelle Triola and Lee Marvin never had a contract, she was not entitled to any money.\n\n\nCountry singer Leon Rausch's song \"Palimony\" went to #81 on the \"Billboard\" Country charts in 1980.\n\n\"Stuck on You!\" is a 1982 comedy film follows estranged couple Bill and Carol, who are in a palimony suit against each other.\n\nIn the 1996 film \"The Birdcage\", which is adapted from the play \"La Cage Aux Folles\", Albert Goldman (played by Nathan Lane) asks for a palimony agreement from his partner, Armand Goldman (Robin Williams).\n\nPalimony was used as a form of revenge by the Bridgette Wilson character, Chelsea Turner, against her character's boyfriend Seth Winnick (played by French Stewart) in the 1999 film \"Love Stinks\".\n\nIncluded in the liner notes for Bon Jovi's \"Slippery When Wet\" album is a thank you to the group's \"expensive lawyers\" for helping them to negotiate alimony and palimony payments.\n\nSeeking palimony was an option considered by the lawyer Jane Bingum (Brooke Elliott) during an episode of \"Drop Dead Diva\", where one man married two women. The women ultimately chose to sue their husband for fraud.\n\n\n\nAlso, palimony law is very similar to common-law marriage law. \"Common-law marriage in the United States\" (marriage without having an official marriage ceremony) is recognized in 10 states: Colorado, DC, Iowa, Kansas, Montana, Oklahoma, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas and Utah.\n\n\n\nPalimony\n\nAlimony\n\n"}
{"id": "1966799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966799", "title": "Permanent Settlement", "text": "Permanent Settlement\n\nThe Permanent Settlement, also known as the Permanent Settlement of Bengal, was an agreement between the East India Company and Bengali landlords to fix revenues to be raised from land, with far-reaching consequences for both agricultural methods and productivity in the entire British Empire and the political realities of the Indian countryside. It was concluded in 1793 by the Company administration headed by Charles, Earl Cornwallis, also known as Lord Cornwallis. It formed one part of a larger body of legislation enacted, known as the Cornwallis Code. The Cornwallis Code of 1793 divided the East India Company's service personnel into three branches: revenue, judicial, and commercial. Revenues were collected by \"zamindars\", native Indians who were treated as the landowners. This division created an Indian landed class that supported British authority.\n\nThe Permanent Settlement was introduced first in Bengal and Bihar, and then in the south district of Madras and Varanasi. The system eventually spread all over northern India by a series of regulations dated 1 May 1793. These regulations remained in place until the Charter Act of 1833. The other two systems prevalent in India were The Ryotwari System and The Mahalwari System. \n\nMany argue that the settlement and its outcome had several drawbacks when compared with its initial goals of increasing tax revenue, creating a Western-European style land market in Bengal, and encouraging investment in land and agriculture, thereby creating the conditions for long-term economic growth for both the company and region's inhabitants. Firstly, the policy of setting the rate of expected revenue for the foreseeable future meant that the income of the Company from taxation actually decreased in the long-term because revenues remained fixed while expenses increased over time. Meanwhile, the condition of the Bengali peasantry became increasingly pitiable, with famines becoming a regular occurrence as landlords (who risked immediate loss of their land if they failed to deliver the expected amount from taxation) sought to guarantee revenue by coercing the local agriculturalists to cultivate cash crops (i.e. cotton, indigo, jute, while opium plantations were managed directly by the Company), while the long-term private investment by the zamindars in agricultural infrastructure failed to materialise. \n\nEarlier \"zamindars\" in Bengal, Bihar and Odisha had been functionaries who held the right to collect revenue on behalf of the Mughal emperor and his representative, the \"diwan\", in Bengal. The diwan supervised the zamindars to ensure they were neither lax nor overly stringent. When the East India Company was awarded the diwani or overlordship of Bengal by the empire following the Battle of Buxar in 1764, it found itself short of trained administrators, especially those familiar with local custom and law. As a result, landholders were unsupervised or reported to corrupt and indolent officials. The result was that revenues were extracted without regard for future income or local welfare.\n\nFollowing the devastating famine of 1770, which was partially caused by this shortsightedness, Company officials in Calcutta better understood the importance of oversight of revenue officials. They failed to consider the question of incentivisation; hence Warren Hastings, then governor-general, introduced a system of five-yearly inspections and temporary tax farmers.\n\nMany appointed as tax farmers absconded with as much revenue as they could during the time period between inspections. The British Parliament took note of the disastrous consequences of the system, and in 1784, British Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger directed the Calcutta administration to alter it immediately. In 1786 Charles Cornwallis was sent out to India to reform the company's practices.\n\nIn 1786, the East India Company Court of Directors first proposed a permanent settlement for Bengal, changing the policy then being followed by Calcutta, which was attempting to increase taxation of \"zamindars\". Between 1786 and 1790, the new Governor-General Lord Cornwallis and Sir John Shore (later Governor-General) entered a heated debate over whether or not to introduce a permanent settlement with the \"zamindars\". Shore argued that the native \"zamindars\" would not trust the permanent settlement to be permanent and that it would take time before they realised it was genuine.\n\nCornwallis believed that they would immediately accept it and so begin investing in improving their land. In 1790, the Court of Directors issued a ten-year (decennial) settlement to the \"zamindars\", which was made permanent in 1793.\n\nBy the Permanent Settlement Act of 1793, their power of keeping the armed forces were taken back. They remained just the tax collectors of the land. There were considerably weakened as they were now banned from holding any court, as it was brought under the supervision of collector appointed by the company. British officials believed that investing in the land would improve the economy.\n\nThey did not want to take direct control of local administration in villages for several reasons.They did not want to annoy those people who had traditionally enjoyed power and prestige in the village. To keep powerful people happy and collect better revenue, Cornwallis introduced the Permanent Settlement. As per permanent system, rajas and taluqdars were recognised as \"zamindars\", who were supposed to collect the land revenue from the peasants.\n\nThe rate of revenue was never to be increased. The company officials believed that would give some motivation for land to be invested in, as \"zamindars\" would be assured of long-term returns of continuous flow of revenue.\n\nAlso was created a new social class of land owning nobility in Bengal and Bihar, loyal to the British.\n\nThe question of incentivisation now being understood to be central, the security of tenure of landlords was guaranteed. In short, the former landholders and revenue intermediaries were granted proprietorial rights (effective ownership) to the land they held. In addition, the land tax was fixed in perpetuity to minimise the tendency by British administrators to amass a small fortune in sluiced-away revenue. Smallholders were no longer permitted to sell their land, but they could not be expropriated by their new landlords.\n\nIncentivization of zamindars was intended to encourage improvements of the land, such as drainage, irrigation and the construction of roads and bridges; such infrastructure had been insufficient through much of Bengal. With a fixed land tax, zamindars could securely invest in increasing their income without any fear of having the increase taxed away by the Company. Cornwallis made the motivation quite clear by declaring that \"when the demand of government is fixed, an opportunity is afforded to the landholder of increasing his profits, by the improvement of his lands\". The British had in mind \"improving landlords\" in their own country, such as Coke of Norfolk.\n\nThe Court of Directors also hoped to guarantee the company's income, which was constantly plagued by defaulting zamindars who fell into arrears, making it impossible for them to budget their spending accurately.\n\nThe immediate consequence of the Permanent Settlement was both very sudden and dramatic, one that nobody had apparently foreseen. By ensuring that zamindars' lands were held in perpetuity and with a fixed tax burden, they became desirable commodities. In addition, the government tax demand was inflexible, and the British East India Company/77/'s collectors refused to make allowances for times of drought, flood or other natural disaster. The tax demand was higher than that in England at the time. As a result, many zamindars immediately fell into arrears.\n\nThe Company's policy of auction of any zamindari lands deemed to be in arrears created a market for land that previously did not exist. Many of the new purchasers of this land were Indian officials within the East India Company's government. The bureaucrats were ideally placed to purchase lands which they knew to be underassessed and therefore profitable. In addition, their position as officials gave them opportunity to acquire the wealth necessary to purchase land quickly through bribery and corruption. They could also manipulate the system to bring to sale land that they specifically wanted.\n\nHistorian Bernard S. Cohn and others have argued that the Permanent Settlement led to a commercialisation of land, which previously did not exist in Bengal and, as a consequence, it led to a change in the social background of the ruling class from \"lineages and local chiefs\" to \"under civil servants and their descendants, and to merchants and bankers\".\n\nThe new landlords were different in their outlook; \"often they were absentee landlords who managed their land through managers and who had little attachment to their land\".\n\nThe Company hoped that the Zamindar class would not only be a revenue-generating instrument but also serve as intermediaries for the more political aspects of their rule, preserving local custom and protecting rural life from the possibly rapacious influences of its own representatives. However, it worked both ways, as zamindars became a naturally conservative interest group. Once British policy in the mid-19th century changed to one of reform and intervention in custom, the zamindars were vocal in their opposition. The zamindars were adamant for it.\nThe Permanent Settlement had the features that state demand was fixed at 89% of the rent and 11% was to be retained by the zamindar. The state demand could not be increased but payment should be made on the due date, before sunset, so it was also known as the 'Sunset Law'. Failure to pay led to the sale of land to the highest bidder.\n\nWhile the worst of the tax-farming excesses were countered by the introduction of the Settlement, the use of land was not part of the agreement. There was a tendency of Company officials and Indian landlords to force their tenants into plantation-style farming of cash crops like indigo and cotton rather than rice and wheat. That was a cause of many of the worst famines of the nineteenth century. In addition, zamindars eventually became absentee landlords, with all that that implied for neglect of investment on the land.\n\nOnce the salient features of the Settlement were reproduced all over India, and indeed elsewhere in the Empire, including Kenya, the political structure was altered forever. The landlord class held much greater power than they had under the Mughals, who subjected them to oversight by a trained bureaucracy with the power to attenuate their tenure. The power of the landlord caste/class over smallholders was not diluted in India until the first efforts towards land reform in the 1950s, still incomplete everywhere except West Bengal. \n\nIn Pakistan, where land reform was never carried out, elections in rural areas still suffer from a tendency towards oligarchy reflecting the concentration of influence in the hands of zamindar families. This is because once Pakistan became separated from India, and the two began to fight over Kashmir, the goal of the government was revenue extraction instead of devotion to agriculture and infrastructure. As a result, the central leadership skewed the relationship between the elected and non-elected institutions of the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "8323198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8323198", "title": "Peter Junger", "text": "Peter Junger\n\nPeter D. Junger (1933 – November 2006) was a professor and Internet activist, most famous for having fought against the U.S. government's regulations of and export controls on encryption software.\n\nThe case, \"Junger v. Daley\" (6th Cir. 2000), held that computer source code is protected by the First Amendment. The US government prohibited publication of encryption software on the Internet, arguing that encryption software was a \"munition\" subject to export controls. Junger filed suit in 1996 challenging the regulations.\n\nJunger also did significant legal theoretical work on the interplay between intellectual property, computer law, and the First Amendment. He defined himself as a \"First Amendment absolutist.\"\n\nJunger grew up in Wyoming, graduating from Harvard University in 1955 and Harvard Law School in 1958. From January 1959 to December 1960 he was an enlisted man in the U.S. Army serving in West Germany. After practicing law from 1961 to 1970, he accepted a faculty position at Case Western Reserve University's School of Law. He retired and was Professor of Law Emeritus in 2001.\n\nJunger was also a practicing Buddhist, president of his local Buddhist Temple from 2003 to 2006.\n\nPeter Junger died in November, 2006, at the age of 73 at his home in Cleveland. He was survived by his mother, Genevieve Junger (born 1901).\n\n"}
{"id": "30484014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30484014", "title": "Polish constitutional referendum, 1997", "text": "Polish constitutional referendum, 1997\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Poland on 25 May 1997. Voters were asked whether they approved of a new constitution. It was narrowly approved, with 53.5% voting in favour (22,58% of Voters with right to vote, voting for \"yes\"). Voter turnout was just 42.9%. Although the 1995 Referendum Act stated that a 50% turnout was required to validate the referendum, the Supreme Court ruled on 15 July that the constitution could be introduced.\n"}
{"id": "35755380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35755380", "title": "Positive covenant", "text": "Positive covenant\n\nA positive covenant is a kind of agreement relating to land, where the covenant requires positive expenditure by the person bound, in order to fulfil its terms.\n\n"}
{"id": "4095343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4095343", "title": "Prepared testimony", "text": "Prepared testimony\n\nPrepared testimony is a form of testimony which is prepared ahead of time, and is then presented verbally or in writing. It is attested as true by the author(s), or given under oath. Typically it is given to a large body or organization. Questions may be posed to the attestor or witness, but the forum where the testimony is given may not permit this, or it may be impractical, or questioning may be cast implicitly in the form of further testimony by others.\n"}
{"id": "8767811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8767811", "title": "Reichswehreid", "text": "Reichswehreid\n\nThe Reichswehreid and from August 1934 Führereid was the name for three different versions of the oath of allegiance of the German Armed Forces, called \"Reichswehr\" from 1919 to 1935, and then \"Wehrmacht\" until 1945.\n\nThe Original Reichswehreid came into effect on 14 August 1919, shortly after Reichspräsident Friedrich Ebert had signed the Weimar Constitution for the German Reich (the so-called Weimar Republic). The Treaty of Versailles limited the Reichswehr to a total of 100,000 men.\n\nIn January 1933, Adolf Hitler was appointed Reichskanzler and the Enabling Act and Gleichschaltung came in effect. As a result, a new wording was adopted on 1 December 1933:\n\nIt has to be noted that all references to the constitution and the office of Reichspräsident, then held by aging war hero Paul von Hindenburg, had already been removed. Instead, more emphasis was put on religion and patriotism.\n\nIn August 1934, after Hindenburg died, Hitler merged the offices of Reichsprasident and Reichskanzler, and declared himself \"Führer and Reichskanzler\". War Minister Werner von Blomberg issued a new wording which became known as Führereid, the \"Hitler oath\":\n\nNow \"Volk and Fatherland\" had been superseded by the person of Hitler himself, who would be Führer and supreme commander. In addition, the obedience was now to be unconditional.\n\nIn 1935, the \"Reichswehr\" was renamed \"Wehrmacht\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1649262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1649262", "title": "Resulting trust", "text": "Resulting trust\n\nA resulting trust (from the Latin 'resalire' meaning 'to jump back') is the creation of an implied trust by operation of law, where property is transferred to someone who pays nothing for it; and then is implied to have held the property for benefit of another person. The trust property is said to \"result\" back to the transferor (implied settlor). In this instance, the word 'result' means \"in the result, remains with\", or something similar to \"revert\" except that in the result the beneficial interest is held on trust for the settlor. Not all trusts whose beneficiary is also the settlor can be called resulting trusts. In common law systems, the resulting trust refers to a subset of trusts which have such outcome; express trusts which stipulate that the settlor is to be the beneficiary are not normally considered resulting trusts.\n\nThe beneficial interest results in the settlor, or if the settlor has died the property forms part of the settlor's estate (intestacy). It remains with the person and Re Vandervell case has proven that only the Beneficial interest disappears but not the beneficiary interest.\n\nSome jurisdictions may establish a rebuttable presumption of gift for property transfers between relatives. The presumption may operate as an affirmative defense to a petition to establish a resulting trust implied by operation of law as it is.\n\nThe law presumes that it is legitimate to transfer property to a family member, particularly for a relative's support. But an unrelated transferee who receives substantial value without consideration is ordinarily presumed to hold the property in trust for benefit of the transferor. The rebuttable presumption of gift affects transfers between siblings, uncles, aunts, children, and grandchildren.\n\nA notable exception to the presumption of gift is the transfer of property between husband and wife (transmutations). The marital exception to presumption of gift arises from the fiduciary duty that spouses owe to one another. Spouses have a special trusted relationship that imputes an obligation of utmost good faith and fair dealing. Accordingly, spouses are deemed incapable of transmutation except under specified circumstances, such as when making an EXPRESS DECLARATION of transmutation as by clear statement in a deed or other writing of substantial dignity.\n\nIn a common law system, a resulting trust law is a creation of the law of equity rather than of common law (in the strict sense). Accordingly, the laws of some jurisdictions might recognize equitable defenses such as laches, unclean hands, and the responsibility to do equity. If a transferor has transferred property for an unlawful purpose and gained the benefit, then a court might hold that he has waived his right to claim a resulting trust(i.e.:settlor)(inter vivos). In such situations, a court balances the transferee's unjust enrichment with the enablement of cheating by the transferor. Enabling a cheater to gain from his transaction would erode the legitimacy of the court.\n\nOther jurisdictions may elect to disregard an unlawful purpose.\n\nIn situations involving illegality, it can become difficult to distinguish implementation of a resulting trust theory (implied by operation of law) from an oral express trust (one implied by the facts). A transferor failing upon one theory might still prevail upon the other.\n\nOne attempt to classify resulting trusts was made by Megarry J in Re Vandervell's Trusts (no.2)[1974] Ch 269. According to Megarry J there are two sorts of resulting trusts in English law.\n\nThese are transfers made by A to B, where the law creates a rebuttable presumption of a resulting trust applying if the intention is not made clear by A.(written evidence produced)\n\nFor example, when A transfers property to B, unless the transfer was made by father to child or by husband to wife, in the absence of any other evidence the law presumes that a resulting trust has been created for A.(Y this category excluded:i.e.:A evidence cannot stand in Course of testimony & remains Hearsay)(A will not get the property if H&W/F&C can adduce evidence it is their property and resulting trust will not arise.\n\nThe main categories of fact situations giving rise to a presumption of a resulting trust are:\n- Where A makes a voluntary conveyance of property to B \n- Where A has made a monetary contribution to the purchase of property for B ( The Venture, [1908] P 218,(1907) 77 L.J.P. 105.)\n\nThe presumptions are, however, easily rebutted. In Fowkes v Pascoe (1875) LR 10 Ch App 343, evidence was shown that a woman had purchased stock in the names of herself and her grandson; evidence by the grandson and granddaughter-in-law that this had been done as a gift was admissible. On the other hand, the presumption is solely concerned with evidence of an intent to create a trust; ulterior motives to create a trust are not taken into account. In Tinsley v Milligan [1994] 1 AC 340, a woman transferred property to her business partner on trust in order to fraudulently claim social security payments; it was held that this did not defeat the presumption of a resulting trust.\n\nThe fact that is being proved by the presumption of a resulting trust is the intention to create a trust for the settlor. This view of presumed resulting trusts has been endorsed by Lord Browne-Wilkinson in \"Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale v Islington LBC\" [1996] AC 669);\n\n\"...the presumption of resulting trust is rebutted by evidence of any intention inconsistent with such a trust, not only by evidence of an intention to make a gift.\"\n\nSome have argued that this presumption arises as a result of a lack of intention to transfer any beneficial interest. This view has generally not received judicial endorsement.(obiter dicta)\n\n\nIn these trusts \" there is no mention of any expression of intention in any instrument, or of any presumption of a resulting trust: the resulting trust takes effect by operation of law,(by law:implied that property will revert to you) and so appears to be automatic.\" ( per Megarry J, \"Re Vandervell's Trusts (No 2)\") [1974]\n\nAutomatic resulting trusts can arise when the settlor tries to set up a trust for a third party, but there is an initial failure for want of objects; for example, by naming beneficiaries which cannot be defined, as in Morice v Bishop of Durham 1805 10 Ves 522, or when the objectives of the trust no longer become possible or relevant by the time of the transfer to the trustee, as in Re Gillingham Bus Disaster Fund [1958] Ch 300.\n\nIn relation to automatic resulting trusts, there is some difference in expressing the nature of the settlor's intention:\n\nAlthough in many cases the outcome would be the same, the difference is significant. It is often difficult to prove intention, but easier to prove the circumstances when a legal presumption will arise. It may be more or less easy to rebut a presumption than to disprove an intention.\n\nLord Browne-Wilkinson was afraid that this would create a \"floodgates\" problem, by giving every claimant a proprietary right in bankruptcy - making many more claimants secured creditors, and thus making the position of a secured creditor much less valuable.\n\nIn South Africa there is no doctrine of resulting trusts. The main remedy if any of the trust purposes should fail would be through Unjust enrichment. (Westdeutsche Landesbank v Council of London Borough of Islington)\n\n"}
{"id": "5800319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5800319", "title": "Roman tribe", "text": "Roman tribe\n\nA tribus, or tribe, was a division of the Roman people, constituting the voting units of a legislative assembly of the Roman Republic. The word is probably derived from \"tribuere\", to divide or distribute; the traditional derivation from \"tres\", three, is doubtful.\n\nAccording to tradition, the first three tribes were established by Romulus; each was divided into ten \"curiae\", or wards, which were the voting units of the \"comitia curiata\". Although the curiae continued throughout Roman history, the three original tribes that they constituted gradually vanished from history.\n\nPerhaps influenced by the original division of the people into tribes, as well as the number of thirty wards, Servius Tullius established thirty new tribes, which later constituted the \"comitia tributa\". This number was reduced to twenty at the beginning of the Roman Republic; but as the Roman population and its territory grew, fifteen additional tribes were enrolled, the last in 241 BC.\n\nAll Roman citizens were enrolled in one of these tribes, through which they were entitled to vote on the election of certain magistrates, religious officials, judicial decisions in certain suits affecting the plebs, and pass resolutions on various proposals made by the tribunes of the plebs and the higher magistrates. Although the \"comitia tributa\" lost most of its legislative functions under the Empire, enrollment in a tribe remained an important part of Roman citizenship until at least the third century AD.\n\nThe first three tribes are said to have been established by Romulus, the founder and first King of Rome, shortly after the foundation of the city. Following the Rape of the Sabine Women, the Sabines under Titus Tatius attacked Rome, and successfully entered the city. After fierce fighting, the Sabine women themselves interceded, stepping between their husbands and their fathers to prevent further bloodshed. Peace was concluded, with Romulus and Tatius ruling jointly, and a large Sabine population relocating to Rome; the nascent city was thus evenly divided between Latins and Sabines. At this time (traditionally 750 BC), Romulus divided the people into three tribes, known as the \"Ramnes\" or \"Ramnenses\", named after himself; the \"Tities\" or \"Titienses\", named after Titus Tatius; and the \"Luceres\" or \"Lucerenses\", whose name and origin were obscure even to the ancient historians.\n\nKnown as the three \"Romulean tribes\", these first tribes have often been supposed to represent the major ethnic groups of early Rome: the Ramnes representing Rome's Latin population; the Tities representing the Sabines; and the Luceres probably representing the Etruscans. Rome lay on the Tiber, the traditional boundary of Etruria with Latium, and may have had a substantial Etruscan population from the beginning; but certainly there was a considerable Etruscan element in the Roman population by the sixth century BC; the fifth and seventh kings of Rome were Etruscan, and many of Rome's cultural institutions were of Etruscan origin. It may be to this period, rather than the time of Romulus, that the institution of the \"Luceres\" belongs; and indeed the names, if not the ethnic character of all three of the Romulean tribes appear to be Etruscan. Although the theory that the Romulean tribes represented the city's original ethnic components continues to be represented in modern scholarship, it has never been universally accepted, and this view is rejected by many scholars.\n\nThese three tribes were in turn divided into thirty \"curiae\", or wards, the organization of which is unclear; they were said to have been named after thirty of the Sabine Women, but of the nine \"curiae\" whose names are known today, several are of geographical origin. The only \"curiae\" whose names are now known were: \"Acculeia, Calabra, Faucia, Foriensis, Rapta, Tifata\", \"Titia\", \"Veliensis\", and \"Velitia\".\n\nIn the past, it was widely believed that membership in the \"curiae\" was limited to the patricians, and that statements to the contrary, indicating that clientes were admitted meant no more than that they were passive members with no voting rights. However, Mommsen argued convincingly that the plebeians were included in voting, and this view now appears to have prevailed; the plebeians were included either from the beginning, or at least from an early date; certainly from the earliest years of the Republic. The members of the \"curiae\" were known as \"curiales.\" Each \"curia\" was attended by a priest, or \"curio\", who assisted by another priest, known as the \"flamen curialis\", undertook the religious obligations of the ward. Each had its own place of meeting, also known as a \"curia.\"\n\nWhen the various \"curiae\" were assembled for voting, they formed the \"comitia curiata\", the oldest legislative assembly of the Roman Republic. One of the \"curiones\" was appointed or elected \"curio maximus\", and presided over the assembly. Under the kings, the \"comitia curiata\" was summoned by the king or by an interrex, who would present questions upon which the \"comitia\" might vote. These included the election of a new king, as proposed by the interrex; the passing of a law conferring imperium on the king, known as a \"lex curiata de imperio\"; whether to declare war; rulings on appeals; matters relating to \"arrogatio\"; and whether to allow foreigners to be received among the patricians. Under Servius Tullius, the rights to declare war and to decide appeals were transferred to the \"comitia centuriata\", another legislative assembly.\n\nAfter the downfall of the Roman monarchy, questions were presented to the \"comitia curiata\" by the Roman Senate. However, between 494 and 449 BC, most of its functions were relegated to the \"comitia tributa\" and the \"comitia centuriata.\" The higher magistrates were elected by the \"comitia centuriata\", which also presided over certain capital trials, and held the power to declare war, and to pass legislation presented by the senate. Lesser magistrates were elected by the \"comitia tributa\", which also elected religious officials, presided over trials affecting the plebeians, and passed resolutions based on legislation proposed by the tribunes of the plebs and various magistrates. The \"comitia curiata\" retained the power to confer imperium on magistrates elected by the \"comitia centuriata\", and to confirm alterations in the Roman constitution decided upon by the other two comitia; both of these, however, required the senate to propose them before the \"comitia\" could act. The \"comitia\" also retained the power to decide whether to admit a non-patrician into that order, and to oversee the process of \"arrogatio,\" particularly when a patrician was being adopted into a plebeian family. By the late republic, each \"curia\" was represented by only one lictor.\n\nThe institution of the tribes that made up the \"comitia tributa\", as well as the centuries of the \"comitia centuriata\", occurred under Servius Tullius, the sixth king of Rome, whose reign is traditionally dated from 578 to 534 BC. According to Livy, Servius divided the city into four regions, and the surrounding land into twenty-six, thus dividing the people into thirty tribes, based on geographic location. The names of the four \"urban\" tribes were based on the four regions of the city that they represented, while those of the \"rural\" or \"rustic\" tribes were likely based on the names of families that owned considerable tracts of land in those areas. Ten of the original rural tribes, whose names are lost to history, were destroyed in the war against Lars Porsena at the commencement of the Republic. Those that remained were the four urban tribes: Collina, Esquilina, Palatina, and Suburana (also called Succusana); together with sixteen rural tribes: Aemilia, Camilia, Cornelia, Fabia, Galeria, Horatia, Lemonia, Menenia, Papiria, Pollia, Popillia, Pupinia, Romilia, Sergia, Veturia, and Voltinia.\n\nWhen the Sabine Appius Claudius removed to Rome together with his \"clientes\", in 504 BC, he was admitted to the patriciate, and assigned lands in the region around the mouth of the Anio. These settlers became the basis of the \"tribus Claudia\", which was admitted in 495 BC, during Claudius' consulship, and subsequently enlarged to become the \"tribus Crustumina\" or \"Clustumina\". Four more tribes were added in 387 BC: Arniensis, Sabatina, Stellatina, and Tromentina.\n\nWith the addition of Volscian territory in 358 BC, two more tribes were formed, Pomptina and Publilia (also found as Poblilia). In 332, the censors Quintus Publilius Philo and Spurius Postumius Albinus enrolled two more tribes, Maecia (originally Maicia) and Scaptia. Ufentina (or Oufentina) and Falerina followed in 318, and in 299 Aniensis and Terentina were added. The last two tribes, Quirina and Velina, were established in 241 BC, bringing the number of tribes to thirty-five. Eight tribes were added at the end of the Social War, when the Roman franchise was extended to the socii, but they were later absorbed into the other thirty-five.\n\nThe thirty-five tribes (with their usual abbreviations) were:\n\nThe four urban tribes\n\nThe rural tribes\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the names of the older rural tribes are those of patrician families, the tribes themselves were probably entirely plebeian until 449 BC, after which both patricians and plebeians were enrolled; before this time, many of the powers and responsibilities later held by the \"comitia tributa\" still belonged to the \"comitia curiata.\" While we know the origin of their names, the location of the territories which defined these tribes is uncertain. Subsequent tribes were based in territories where Roman settlements had been established, or in which the inhabitants had received the Roman franchise. In later periods, citizens might be enrolled in tribes without reference to geography.\n\nThe enrollment of new citizens in particular tribes became a significant political issue during the censorship of Appius Claudius Caecus in 312 BC. Those who wished to limit the voting power of the lower social orders, and particularly of freedmen, advocated enrolling them only in the four urban tribes. This effort was largely unsuccessful, except with respect to freedmen, who were nearly always enrolled in one of the urban tribes. A similar attempt to limit the power of newly enfranchised citizens followed the end of the Social War. It was also possible for one of the censors to punish an individual by expelling him from one of the rustic tribes, and assigning him to one of the urban tribes; this was known as \"tribu movere\".\n\nThe tribes functioned as civil divisions of the populace for purposes of the census, taxation, and military service. Each tribe possessed its own officers, including a \"curator tribuum\", who served as the head of the tribe, and \"tribuni aerarii\", or tribunes of the treasury, whose responsibility was for the tribe's financial obligations; they were responsible for collecting the war tax, and distributed pay to the tribe's soldiers.\n\nToward the end of the Republic, the importance of the tribus was such that it became an official part of a Roman's name, usually appearing, in the most formal documents and inscriptions, between a citizen's filiation and any cognomina.\n\nIn imperial times, the enrollment of citizens in tribes along a geographic basis was resumed; for instance, easterners were typically enrolled in the tribes Collina and Quirina, while in Gallia Narbonensis enrollment in the \"tribus Voltinia\" was preferred.\n\nTogether, the Servian tribes constituted the \"concilium plebis\", or plebeian council; as time passed and the council's authority to pass legislation developed, it was increasingly known as the \"comitia plebis tributa\", or tribal assembly. A law passed in 449 BC made resolutions of the \"comitia tributa\", known as \"plebi scita\", or plebiscites, binding upon the whole Roman people; this law was not ratified by the senate until 286 BC, but even before this its resolutions were considered binding on the plebs. Because all citizens, whether patrician or plebeian, received the same vote in the \"comitia tributa\", and because the assembly was much simpler to convene than the \"comitia centuriata\", the \"comitia tributa\" was Rome's most democratic assembly. By the end of the Republic, the plebs greatly outnumbered the patricians, and it was through this \"comitia\" that the collective will of the citizens could be exercised without regard to wealth or status.\n\nThe \"comitia tributa\" elected all of the lower magistrates, including the tribunes of the plebs, the military tribunes, the plebeian aediles and the curule aediles. A committee of seventeen tribes, chosen by lot, nominated the Pontifex Maximus, and coöpted members of the \"collegia\" of the pontifices, augures, and the decemviri sacrorum.\n\nThe \"comitia\" could pass resolutions proposed by the tribunes of the plebs, or by the higher magistrates, on both domestic and foreign matters, such as the making of treaties or concluding of peace. Proposals had to be published before receiving a vote, and were passed or rejected as a whole, without modification. Although the senate might review these resolutions, it could only reject them if they had been passed without the proper formalities.\n\nThe \"comitia tributa\" also decided suits instituted by the plebeian tribunes and aediles, for offenses against the plebs or their representatives. In the later Republic, these suits typically involved charges of maladministration; the tribunes and aediles were entitled to levy substantial fines.\n\nBeginning with the institution of the tribunes of the plebs in 494 BC, the \"comitia tributa\" was normally summoned by the tribunes themselves. Magistrates could also convene the \"comitia\", but only with the consent of the tribunes. The \"comitia\" was summoned by the proclamation of a \"praeco\", a crier or herald, at least seventeen days before the meeting. The auspices would be taken, and the meeting could only proceed if they were favourable. The tribes convened at daybreak, and were obliged to adjourn at sunset. If summoned by one of the tribunes, the tribes had to gather within the city, or within a one-mile radius of the city; this was the boundary of a tribune's authority. In the first centuries of the Republic, the \"comitia\" usually met on the Capitol, in the Forum, or at the Comitium. If summoned by one of the magistrates, the comitia typically met on the Campus Martius.\n\nAfter a prayer, unaccompanied by sacrifice, proposals would be read, and the citizens arranged by tribe. The first tribe to vote, known as the \"principium\", was chosen by lot, and the result of its vote announced. The other tribes would then vote simultaneously, and the results of their votes announced in an order also determined by lot, before the final result was proclaimed. Laws passed by the \"comitia\" took effect as soon as the results were announced. Although the order of voting was determined by lot, there was also an official order of the tribes, known as the \"ordo tribuum\". The first four tribes were the urban tribes, in the order: Suburana, Palatina, Esquilina, Collina; the rural tribes followed, concluding with Aniensis.\n\nIn the final years of the Republic, participation in the \"comitia\" was quite low, and its acts increasingly the result of corruption. Caesar deprived the \"comitia tributa\" of the power to declare war or conclude peace; the early emperors further curtailed its power. Augustus removed the \"comitia's\" judicial function, and preserved its power to pass legislation only in form. He filled half of the available magistracies with his own candidates, and Tiberius transferred the comitia's remaining electoral authority to the senate. Although the emperors received many of their powers from the \"comitia tributa\", this was only a formality.\n\nAlthough the \"comitia tributa\" continued to exist until the third century AD, its only remaining functions were symbolic; it took auspices and gave prayer; it conferred the emperor's legislative powers and other authority; and it proclaimed the laws presented to it for approval. But by this time voting was done not by ballot, but by \"acclamatio\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26019188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26019188", "title": "Sara Kruzan", "text": "Sara Kruzan\n\nSara Jessimy Kruzan (born January 8, 1978) is an American activist and survivor of sex-trafficking. In 1995, at the age of 17, she was convicted of the first-degree murder of her trafficker, George Gilbert Howard who began to groom her for the sex industry at the age of 11. She was sentenced to life imprisonment without parole. During her trial, her abuse was not admitted into evidence and she was not allowed to speak of it. She was falsely depicted as a murderer and sentenced as such. Twelve years into her sentence, she was interviewed by Human Rights Watch where she was finally able to speak about her abuse, and as a result received national attention from individuals and judicial reform groups, who advocated for a new trial. On January 2, 2011, as a result of the media attention, Kruzan was granted clemency by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, who commuted her sentence to 25 years with the possibility of parole; she remained incarcerated at the Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla. In January 2013, her sentence was reduced to second-degree manslaughter and 15 + 4 years, effectively time served, making her eligible for a parole hearing. She was found suitable for parole on June 12, 2013, and the decision was forwarded to Governor Jerry Brown. On October 25, 2013, Brown took no action on the parole board decision, thereby effectively confirming it, allowing the parole board to proceed with the parole of Kruzan. On October 31, 2013, she was paroled from Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla after serving 19 years.\n\nSara Kruzan was born on January 8, 1978. She was raised by her mother in Riverside, California, where she was an honor roll student at school. During her childhood, she met her father only three times because he was serving long prison terms. During her childhood, Kruzan experienced severe depression, resulting in numerous hospitalizations.\n\nWhen Kruzan was 11 years old, she met George Gilbert \"G. G.\" Howard. Twenty years her senior, Howard initially served as a surrogate father for Kruzan. Kruzan stated in court records that upon their introduction, he began grooming her for a life of prostitution. She also testified that by the age of 13, she became a victim of human trafficking. Under the control of Howard, she was forced to work as a child prostitute and was subjected to sexual abuse.\n\nIn March 1994, when Kruzan was 16 years old, she moved into a Rubidoux-area home belonging to James Earl Hampton. Kruzan arranged to meet Howard on March 9 for a date and agreed to spend the night with him. On March 10, Kruzan shot Howard in the neck at close range in a room at the Dynasty Suites Motel. She then took $1,500 from his wallet, as well as the keys to his Jaguar. She then went to meet her boyfriend, Johnny Otis, and Hampton in a local supermarket. Howard's body was discovered by a member of the motel's housekeeping staff. When law enforcement officials at the scene found Kruzan's identification card and purse left behind in the motel room, a warrant was issued for her arrest.\n\nKruzan was arrested in Pomona on March 14, 1994. During questioning, Kruzan made a confession to the police. The District Attorney of Riverside County opted to ignore the pleas for extenuating circumstances surrounding Kruzan's actions, and he sought to have her tried in an adult court for first-degree murder. An evaluation by California Youth Authority concluded she was suitable for treatment in the juvenile justice system, however, a local judge, at the urging of the prosecutor, Tim Freer, transferred her to the adult court.\n\nDuring her trial, Kruzan testified that she had killed Howard because Hampton had ordered it and had threatened to kill both her and her mother if she did not carry out his orders. As a result, defense attorney, David Gunn, told the court of information provided to the police by Hampton. Neither Hampton nor Otis were charged with the crime due to a lack of legally sufficient corroborating evidence to support Kruzan's statement.\n\nIn his closing arguments at her trial, (now Judge) Timothy Freer cautioned jurors not to be swayed by the appearance of an attractive, petite teenager who might not fit their image of a murderer. On Thursday May 11, 1995, a Riverside Superior Court jury of seven women and five men found her guilty of first-degree murder, affirming two special circumstances – that Howard was murdered during a robbery, and that Kruzan had been lying in wait to kill him – to justify a sentencing of life, with no possibility of parole. On October 31, 2013 Sara Kruzan was paroled from Central California Women's Facility in Chowchilla after serving 19 years. \n\nAs a result of her status as a juvenile convicted of murder and sentenced to life without parole, Kruzan has been the focus of national petitions and judicial reform groups that are advocating for a retrial. Some campaigning groups have suggested that Kruzan was suffering from battered person syndrome, a physical and psychological condition that often results in victims of abuse murdering their abusers.\n\nThe National Center for Youth Law has spoken out against the US, for the frequency with which it sentences juveniles to life without parole, with Kruzan often mentioned as an example of the need for greater compassion.\n\nIn February 2009, Human Rights Watch published a video on YouTube, which features Kruzan, in an effort to highlight their campaign for a ban on sentences of life without parole for juveniles in California.\n\nIn reaction to this case Democratic Senator, Leland Yee of San Francisco stated, \"Life without parole means absolutely no opportunity for release... It also means minors are often left without access to programs and rehabilitative services while in prison. This sentence was created for the worst of criminals that have no possibility of reform and it is not a humane way to handle children. While the crimes they committed caused undeniable suffering, these youth offenders are not the worst of the worst.\"\n"}
{"id": "12088865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12088865", "title": "Scheme of arrangement", "text": "Scheme of arrangement\n\nA scheme of arrangement (or a \"scheme of reconstruction\") is a court-approved agreement between a company and its shareholders or creditors (e.g. lenders or debenture holders). It may affect mergers and amalgamations and may alter shareholder or creditor rights.\n\nSchemes of arrangement are used to execute arbitrary changes in the structure of a business and thus are used when a reorganisation cannot be achieved by other means. They may be used for rescheduling debt, for takeovers, and for returns of capital, among other purposes.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement are found in the Companies Act 2006, Part 26 (ss.895-901) and Part 27 (special rules for public companies).\n\nIn Australia, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement or reconstruction are located in Part 5.1 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).\n\nIn South Africa, the relevant provisions for effecting a scheme of arrangement are found in the Companies Act 2008, No. 71 Of 2008, Sections 114 and 115.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34416133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34416133", "title": "Sheepshooters' War", "text": "Sheepshooters' War\n\nThe Sheepshooters War was an armed conflict fought in central and eastern Oregon. Like other range wars in the Old West, the war pitted cattlemen against sheepherders. Because the cattlemen were unwilling to share the open range with the sheepherders, due to concerns about overgrazing, they formed paramilitary organizations with the goal of eliminating the flocks of sheep and anyone who attempted to stop them. Between 1895 and 1906, the Sheepshooters, as they were called, slaughtered at least 25,000 sheep. A few men were also killed during gunfights or related incidents.\n\nSince the cattle industry arrived first in Oregon, the cattlemen, or cattle barons, held a monopoly on Oregon's pasturelands in the east of the state. So, when they arrived, the sheepherders quickly became a threat to the cattle industry. Sheep were known to strip a valley clean of all vegetation, leaving it barren and desolate, while cattle ate only grass, leaving behind weeds, which held down the topsoil and allowed grass to regrow. Some cowboys even asserted that sheep stunk very badly and left behind smelly fields that cattle would not use. Water was also a concern, sheep polluted water holes to a point that cattle couldn't drink from them without becoming ill. The cattlemen weren't entirely guiltless themselves; even though the open range meant public land, the cattlemen were known for fencing off territory that didn't belong to them, in order to prevent sheepherders, or other ranchers, from using the resources. By the early 1880s, sheepherding was becoming more and more popular in Oregon, but the cattlemen and the newcomers seemed to coexist mostly peacefully until 1895, when the first Sheepshooters group was formed in Grant County. Calling themselves the \"Izee Sheepshooters,\" the cowboys began attacking sheep camps and establishing deadlines, a type of border in which sheep were not allowed to cross. Because the Izee cowboys were successful with their campaigns, a \"Sheepshooters Association\" was formed in neighboring Crook County and another in Union County. According to the \"Insiders Guide to Bend and Central Oregon,\" all of the sheepshooters agreed that \"if a sheepherder was killed during a mission, he would be buried on the spot\" and \"if one of their own were killed, he would be brought home to be buried, with no mention of how he met his demise.\" Also, \"if any association member was captured by the law [police] and brought to trial, he was duty-bound to lie on the witness stand about his involvement with the group.\"\n\nUsually the sheepshooters would launch a surprise attack on a camp, capture the herders, and then shoot or club all of the sheep. Often the herders were beaten, but occasionally there were small shootouts. According to William R. Racy, a rancher interviewed by author Richard Negri, he met an old sheepherder who was the victor of one of the gunfights, though the story has not been confirmed.\n\nWilliam R. Racy said the following:\n\nThe conflict didn't reach its height until after the turn of the century and most of the violence occurred in the High Desert, between the Cascades and the Blue Mountains. By 1898, the Cascade Range Forest Reserve was expanding its boundaries. This meant that sheepherders, who had used the area unmolested for years, were now suddenly forced to go elsewhere to raise their animals. Many headed east towards the Blue Mountains, an area already exploited by cattle. Over time, the influx of sheep into the Blue Mountains area led to overgrazing. Deadlines were established and large sheep massacres became very common. Sometimes the cowboys left notices attached to a tree that marked the boundary. A typical notice would be similar to the following: \"Warning to Sheep Men – You are hereby ordered to keep your sheep on the north side of plainly marked line or you will suffer the consequences. Signed Inland Sheep Shooters.\" One of the largest sheep massacres occurred in 1903, on the High Desert near Benjamin Lake. Nearly 2,400 sheep were \"herded off a rimrock\" and those that survived the fall were shot to death. In 1904, over 6,000 sheep were killed in three central Oregon counties, although the secretary of the Crook County Sheepshooters Association claimed that his men had killed between 8,000 and 10,000. The only known human death attributed to the conflict occurred on or about March 4, 1904. John Creed Conn was neither a cattleman or a sheepherder, but a storekeeper from the town of Silver Lake. He was, however, the brother of a district attorney and member of a prominent family. Though investigators concluded that the death was a suicide, Conn's body was found outside of town, seven weeks later, with two bullet holes in the chest, wounds that the doctor who performed the autopsy said could only have been caused by another person.\n\nThe war ended in the latter half of 1906, when the Blue Mountain Forest Reserve was created by the Department of Agriculture and when the United States government began establishing grazing allotments. Because the cattlemen and the sheepherders were no longer sharing the same land, there was no more reason to fight each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "847973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847973", "title": "Skiptrace", "text": "Skiptrace\n\nSkiptrace (also skip tracing, or debtor and fugitive recovery) is the process of locating a person's whereabouts. A skip tracer is someone who performs this task, which may be the person's primary occupation. The term \"skip\" (as a noun) refers to the person being searched for, and is derived from the idiomatic expression \"to skip town\", meaning to depart (perhaps in a rush), leaving minimal clues behind to \"trace\" the \"skip\" to a new location.\n\nSkip tracing tactics may be employed by a Skip tracer, debt collector, process server, bail bondsman or bail agency enforcer (bounty hunters), repossession agent, private investigator, lawyer, police detective, journalist, stalker or by any person attempting to locate a subject whose contact information is not immediately known. Similar techniques have also been utilized by investigators to locate witnesses in criminal trials.\n\nSkip tracing is performed in stages. The first step is to verify the information provided by the client to understand who the subject is and if the client has any misinformation. Then the skip tracer will start collecting as much information as possible about the subject. The information is then analyzed, reduced, and verified. Sometimes the subject's current whereabouts are in the data, but are obfuscated by the sheer amount of information or disinformation. Often, the job becomes more than mere research since one must often employ methods of social engineering, which involves calling or visiting former neighbors, or other known contacts to ask about the subject, sometimes under false or misleading pretenses.\n\nRecords that \"skiptracers\" use may include phone number databases, credit reports (including information provided on a loan application, credit card application, and in other debt collector databases), job application information, criminal background checks, utility bills (electricity, gas, water, sewage, phone, internet, and cable), social security, disability, and public tax information. While some of these records may be publicly available, some cannot be accessed without an appropriate search warrant, which is generally only available to law enforcement or licensed private investigators.\n\nEven when no specific information is returned, public and private databases exist that cross-reference skiptracing information with others the \"skip\" may have lived with in the recent past. For instance, if previous records show a \"skip\" lived in the same house as a third party, the third party may also be skiptraced in an effort to locate the primary target.\n\nIn the past skip tracing used to include things like “Dumpster Diving” and “Pretext calls” to utility companies. These days a lot of skip tracing is conducted online with using paid search sites and phone calls. Websites like Facebook and Myspace have made a skip tracers life a lot easier. Skip tracers will subscribe to a number of paid databases to help them gather and verify information.\n\nPredictive Skip tracing uses advanced analytics to make predictions on where \"skips\" are located. The use of PAM models (Probable Address Models) are vital to businesses who have a large number of customers that skip. PAM modeling can be used to locate people and identify customers who have a high probability to skip. \n\nPredictive Skip tracing was started in Australia by Brad Lyons who conducted talks around the area of predicted skip tracing and data in collections. Brad Lyons is also involved in developing OSINT tools and also helps to keep Fravia' alive by hosting a number of backups of searchlores and is the author of Vanish.\n\nPredictive Skip tracing uses a mix of historical and current data to help deduce a person's current location or probability to skip. In the early days, PAM models would show results with a 70% probability of the person's current address. Now PAM modeling can return a 100% confidence score on the likelihood the customer is living at the predicted address.\n\nPAM models were designed for the Debt collection industry and law enforcement, however multiple industries, including charities) are starting to explore how PAM modeling can be used to help them with customer retention.\n\n"}
{"id": "44395329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44395329", "title": "Social purpose corporation", "text": "Social purpose corporation\n\nA social purpose corporation (SPC) is a type of for-profit entity in some U.S. states that enables corporations to consider social or environmental issues in decision making instead of relying only on profit-maximizing goals. The social purpose corporation structure permits consideration of these issues but does not require it. Social purpose corporations are similar to benefit corporations (B Corporations) and flexible purpose corporations (FPCs).\n\nIn California, \"[t]he amendment, S.B. 1301, changes existing law (found under Corporations Code Sections 2500–3503) to emphasize the social-purpose nature of the flexible purpose corporations, most notably by changing its name to the \"Social Purpose Corporation\". With the law change, directors are now required to take company mission into account in decision making. A SPC must state that it has a specific purpose to pursue a public purpose that a traditional nonprofit corporation would normally have pursued. SPCs are for-profit organizations and therefore do not qualify for tax-exempt status as a nonprofit corporation.\n\nS.B. 1301 takes effect on January 1, 2015. On that date, existing FPCs will automatically continue their existence as SPCs.\n\nFlorida created both social purpose corporations and benefit corporations in 2014. The main difference between the two is that B corporations must pursue a \"general public benefit\", which applies to all of the company's activities, while SPCs may pursue a public benefit in limited areas. The following example from the \"Florida Bar Journal\" gives a good illustration of this difference between SPCs and benefit corporations:\nShareholders, directors, and persons owning more than 5% equity in a Florida SPC may bring lawsuits against a Florida SPC for failure to pursue or create a public benefit, but the corporations, their directors, and their management are shielded from monetary damages in such lawsuits for failing to create a public benefit. Florida SPCs must prepare an annual report on the company's achievements towards its public benefit goals, but unlike Florida B Corporations, these reports do not need to be assessed by a third-party standard.\n\nWashington State passed the law for social purpose corporations in 2012. Florida became the second state to adopt social purpose corporations in 2014. Although there are no official requirements for social purpose corporations to have a positive social or environmental impact, most of the companies which have registered as social purpose corporations in Washington State, the pioneering state for SPCs, have a focus on social or environmental impacts.\n\n"}
{"id": "246577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246577", "title": "War Crimes Law (Belgium)", "text": "War Crimes Law (Belgium)\n\nBelgium's War Crimes Law invokes the concept of universal jurisdiction to allow anyone to bring war crime charges in Belgian courts, regardless of where the alleged crimes have taken place. \n\nNote that this is a Belgian law and is different from the International Criminal Court, which is a treaty body to try war crimes, and also different from the International Court of Justice, which is a U.N. body to settle disputes between countries. Both of these bodies reside in nearby The Hague, Netherlands, although some have said that American Servicemen's Protection Act passed by the US was also directed against the War Crimes Law.\n\nThe law took effect in 1993 and was expanded the following year after 10 Belgian soldiers were killed in Rwanda.\n\nThe law reached prominence after the Rwandan Genocide. According to the Washington Post, the process of prosecution of Rwandans in Belgium for crimes committed in the violence were set in motion by Martine Beckers, a Brussels resident, whose sister Claire called her to tell her of being attacked by soldiers, who soon after killed her, her family, and 10 other villagers who were unable to reach a United Nations peacekeepers' compound.\n\nCountries have long claimed jurisdiction over nationals of other countries or suits against countries themselves in matters Civil or criminal where those foreign nationals are alleged to have committed crimes against the complaining country's nationals, or have committed crimes in the complaining country.\n\nWhat made this Belgian law controversial was that it afforded the right to anyone to submit a war crime for prosecution in Belgian courts that occurred anywhere in the world, whether on Belgian territory, and whether a Belgian national was involved as either criminal or victim. This concept called \"universal jurisdiction\", or \"universal competence\", was recently used in Germany to indict high-ranking US officials for their involvement in prisoner abuse in the war on terror under the command responsibility.\n\nThe law soon ran into trouble when a number of parties worldwide filed cases criticized as politically motivated against leaders of various nations.\n\nOver the years filings included cases against American officials, including George H. W. Bush, Dick Cheney, Colin Powell, Norman Schwarzkopf and Tommy Franks. Cases had also been filed against the leaders of many other countries, such as Iraq and Israel, and Cuba's Fidel Castro. The paperwork backing several of these filings was very limited, consisting out of a single fax or several pages. \n\nCritics assailed the law as an attempt to circumvent the sovereignty of other states and become a venue for partisan show trials of propaganda value but no legal consequence. Proponents respond by arguing that universal jurisdiction is often the only recourse victims of war crimes have, and that under the UN Charter countries are already obliged to prosecute those involved in war crimes.\n\nIn an effort by the United States to pressure Belgium, United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld threatened to remove the NATO Headquarters from Brussels unless the Law was changed.\n\nOn 12 July 2003, the incoming government of Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt announced that scrapping this law would be among the first acts carried out.\n\nIn September of that year, the Belgian Court of Cassation threw out the cases against the former President Bush and other US officials, as well as Israelis.\n\nSix human rights groups (Amnesty International Belgium, both the Dutch-speaking Human Rights League and the French-speaking Human Rights League of Belgium, the International Federation for Human Rights, Avocats Sans Frontières (\"Lawyers Without Borders\") and Human Rights Watch) called that loss of the universal jurisdiction component \"a step backwards in the global fight against the worst atrocities.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch outlined the reduced scope of the law:\n\nOn 21 June 2006, the Constitutional Court of Belgium (called the Court of Arbitration at the time) annulled parts of the modified law which came in place of the Belgian War Crimes Law.\n"}
{"id": "1362760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362760", "title": "Warez scene", "text": "Warez scene\n\nThe Warez scene, often referred to as The Scene, is an underground community of people that specialize in the distribution of copyrighted material, including television shows and series, movies, music, music videos, games (all platforms), applications (all platforms), ebooks, and pornography. The Scene is meant to be hidden from the public, only being shared with those within the community. However, as files were commonly leaked outside the community and their popularity grew, some individuals from The Scene began leaking files and uploading them to filehosts, torrents and ed2k.\n\nThe Scene has no central leadership, location, or other organizational conventions. The groups themselves create a ruleset for each Scene category (for example, MP3 or TV) that then becomes the active rules for encoding material. These rulesets include a rigid set of requirements that warez groups (grps) must follow in releasing and managing material. The groups must follow these rules when uploading material, and if the release has a technical error or breaks a rule, other groups may \"nuke\" (flag as bad content) the release. Groups are in constant competition to get releases up as fast as possible, even though there are no real \"rewards\" for their work (except for access to The Scene). First appearing around the time of BBSes, The Scene is composed primarily of people dealing with and distributing media content for which special skills and advanced software are required.\n\nThe warez scene started emerging in the 1970s, used by predecessors of software cracking and reverse engineering groups. Their work was made available on privately run bulletin board systems (BBSes). The first BBSes were located in the U.S., but similar boards started appearing in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and mainland Europe. At the time, setting up a machine capable of distributing data was not trivial and required a certain amount of technical skill. The reason it was usually done was for technical challenge. The BBSes typically hosted several megabytes of material. The best boards had multiple phone lines and up to one hundred megabytes of storage space, which was very expensive at the time. Releases were mostly games and later software.\n\nAs the world of software development evolved to counter the distribution of material and as the software and hardware needed for distribution became readily available to anyone, The Scene adapted to the changes and turned from simple distribution to actual cracking of the protections and non-commercial reverse engineering. As many groups of people who wanted to do this emerged, a requirement for promotion of individual groups became evident, which prompted the evolution of the Artscene, which specialized in the creation of graphical art associated with individual groups. The groups would promote their abilities with ever more sophisticated and advanced software, graphical art, and later also music (demoscene).\n\nThe subcommunities (artscene, demoscene, etc.), which were doing nothing illegal, eventually branched off. The programs containing the group promotional material (coding/graphical/musical presentations) evolved to become separate programs distributed through The Scene and were nicknamed Intros and later Cracktros.\n\nThe demoscene grew especially strong in Scandinavia, where annual gatherings are hosted.\n\nWhen releasing material, groups must first encode properly so as not to be nuked, which shows up as a cautionary flag to potential users. After encoding, they upload the files to a topsite that is a FTP server where all the files originate. When the upload is complete, they execute a command that causes the name and category of the release to be announced in the topsite's IRC channel. New releases are also announced 0sec (meaning seconds to minutes after official scene pre) on various public websites. This is called a \"pre\" release. Once this is done, all other releases for the same material are nuked as duplicates (\"dupes\"). However, if there is a technical error or the file breaking the ruleset for the category, the original \"pre\" release will be nuked. Other groups then encode the same material and release it with a \"PROPER\" tag in the filename. The same group may re-encode the file, with the new release marked as \"REPACK\". This FTP server and IRC are hidden and closed to the public.\n\nEach release in The Scene consists of a folder containing the material (sometimes split into RAR pieces), plus an NFO and SFV file. The NFO is a text file which has essential information about the file(s) encoded, including a reason for the nuke if the file is a PROPER or REPACK release. A robust NFO file may contain a group's mission statement, recruitment requirements, greetings, and contact info; many groups have a standard ASCII art template for the file, with the most prolific exhibiting elaborate artistic examples. The SFV file uses checksums to ensure that the files of a release are working properly and have not been damaged or tampered with. This is typically done with the aid of an external executable like QuickSFV or SFV Checker. Failure to include an NFO or SFV file in the release will generally result in a nuke, as these are essential components of the warez standard to which The Scene adheres.\n\nIn 2012, the Scene had over 100 active groups releasing material. Over 1,000 releases are made each day, with a cumulative total of more than five million releases through 2012.\n\nCracking has been the core element of The Scene since its beginning. This part of The Scene community specializes in the creation of software cracks and keygens. The challenge of cracking and reverse engineering complicated software is what makes it an attraction. The game cracking group SKIDROW described it as follows in one of their NFO files:\n\nThe game ripping group MYTH expressed it as follows in their NFO files:\n\nDavid Grime, former DrinkOrDie member, describes the motivation of the warez scene as follows: \"It's all about stature. They are just trying to make a name for themselves for no reason other than self-gratification.\"\n\n\n\n"}
