{"id": "2347461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347461", "title": "A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language in Common Use Amongst the Aborigines of Western Australia", "text": "A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language in Common Use Amongst the Aborigines of Western Australia\n\nA Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language in Common Use Amongst the Aborigines of Western Australia is a book by George Fletcher Moore. First published in 1842, it represents one of the earliest attempts to record the languages used by the Aboriginal peoples of Western Australia. The book is a compilation by Moore based on the works of Robert Lyon, Francis Armstrong, Charles Symmons, the Bussell family and George Grey, as well as his own observations. It was published in 1842 at the expense of Moore and Governor of Western Australia John Hutt. In 1884 it was republished as part of Moore's \"Diary of Ten Years Eventful Life of an Early Settler in Western Australia and also A Descriptive Vocabulary of the Language of the Aborigines\".\n\nThe work is a key source in records of the nomenclature of Australia's Southwest flora and fauna. The compilation of regional variants in the Nyungar language is cited in Serventy and Whittell \"Birds of Western Australia\" and subsequent ornithological literature, although his own observations of bird-life remained unpublished until the 1884 edition of Moore's diary.\n\n"}
{"id": "149413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149413", "title": "Adolph Francis Alphonse Bandelier", "text": "Adolph Francis Alphonse Bandelier\n\nAdolph Francis Alphonse Bandelier (August 6, 1840March 18, 1914) was a Swiss-born American archaeologist who particularly explored the indigenous cultures of the American Southwest, Mexico and South America. He immigrated to the United States with his family as a youth and made his life there, abandoning the family business to study in the new fields of archeology and ethnology.\n\nBandelier National Monument in New Mexico, was named for him, as his studies established the significance of this area in the Jemez Mountains for archeological and historic preservation of sites of Ancestral Puebloans, dating to two eras from 1150 to 1600 CE.\n\nBandelier was born in Bern, Switzerland. As a youth, he emigrated to the United States with his family, which settled in Highland, Illinois, a community established by other Swiss immigrants. He labored unhappily in the family business as a young man. He became acquainted with the pioneering anthropologist Lewis Henry Morgan of New York, who served as his mentor as Bandelier turned to scholarship. In particular, he undertook archaeological and ethnological work among the Native Americans of the southwestern United States, Mexico and South America.\n\nBeginning his studies in Sonora (Mexico), Arizona and New Mexico, Bandelier developed as the leading authority on the history of this region. With F. H. Cushing and his successors, he became one of the leading authorities on its prehistoric civilization, at a time when archeology and ethnology were new fields of study.\n\nIn 1892 Bandelier left the Southwest to travel and conduct research in Ecuador, Bolivia and Peru, where he continued ethnological, archaeological and historical investigations. In the first field he was in a part of his work connected with the Hemenway Archaeological Expedition. In the second he worked for Henry Villard of New York City and for the American Museum of Natural History of the same city. Bandelier had shown the falsity of various historical myths, notably in his conclusions respecting the Inca civilization of Peru.\n\nWhile working at the pueblo of Isleta in New Mexico, Bandelier made some long-term friends. They included French-born missionary Father Anton Docher, who had served the Tiwa people since 1891 and was known as the Padre of Isleta. Another was American journalist and writer Charles Fletcher Lummis, who also wrote on ethnology. Lummis traveled with Bandelier for a time in South America, before returning to his base in Los Angeles. The three men continued as friends.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44067876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44067876", "title": "Aleks Buda", "text": "Aleks Buda\n\nAleks Buda (7 September 1910 – 7 July 1993) was an Albanian historian. After completion of his education in Italy and Austria, he returned to Albania. Although his education was in literature, he made a career as a historian during the socialist period in Albania. He was a member and president of the Academy of Sciences of Albania.\n\nBuda was born on 7 September 1910 in Elbasan, Ottoman Empire (modern day Albania). He went to elementary school at Lecce in Italy and completed secondary school in Salzburg, Austria, in 1930. After that he enrolled in the University of Vienna where he studied philosophy and literature, but he returned to Albania without graduating.\n\nAlthough his specialty was in literature, he made a career as a historian. He was also referred to as the founder of the Albanian post WWII historiography.\nBuda belonged to a group of most notable Albanian politician historians during the socialist period in Albania. Buda was a member and a president of the Academy of Sciences of Albania. In some sources he was referred to as personal confidant of Enver Hoxha. Buda was the only historian to participate in the Albanian Orthography Congress held in Tirana in 20–25 November 1972.\n\nHe participated at the National Conference of Ethnographic Studies held in 1976 to commemorate 35th anniversary of the establishment of Party of Labour of Albania. Buda belonged to a group of historians and Marxist philosophers who attacked contemporary theories and trends outside Albania as capitalist and revisionist.\n\nContemporary historians point to Buda's work as a source for the Albanian position of the origin of Albanians. He was considered as the leading Albanian scholar of Illyrian history who belonged to group of historians who also pointed out that there is no trace of Illyrians between the 6th century (when they were mentioned in historical documents for the last time) and the 11th century (when Albanians were recorded in historical documents for the first time). Based on the hypothesis of Illyrian origin of Albanians, Buda emphasized that Albanians belong to the oldest inhabitants of Balkans and even Europe.\n\nBuda belonged to a small group of intellectuals allowed by the Albanian communist regime to have access to foreign literature in order to use them to prepare new ideological and theoretical directives for the rest of their colleagues.\n\nBuda's work include:\n"}
{"id": "4629679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4629679", "title": "Annette M. Böckler", "text": "Annette M. Böckler\n\nAnnette Mirjam Böckler (born June 26, 1966) is lecturer for Jewish liturgy and bible and librarian at Leo Baeck College in London, and a writer and translator in the Jewish subject area. She is the translator of \"Seder haTefillot\", the first liberal Jewish prayerbook after the Shoah in Germany, and the translator and editor of the German edition of the W. Gunther Plaut's Torah commentary.\n\nShe studied Protestant Theology, Bible, and Ancient Near Eastern Studies in Tübingen, Bern, Bonn and Cologne and concluded her studies in 1993 with the first ecclesiastical exam, after which she was admitted as vicar in training on the churches' preparatory employment scheme. In March 1995 she passed the second ecclesiastical exam of the Evangelical Church in the Rhineland. In 1996 she was admitted to the church's auxiliary service as pastor. On 2 February 1997 she was ordained as a priest of the Evangelical Church of the Rhineland in the community of Unterbarmen-Mitte (Wuppertal, Germany). Until September 1998 she worked primarily at the Kirchliche Hochschule Wuppertal. On 1 October 1998 she was discharged from ecclesiastical service (last position \"pastor on probational service\"). In February 2000 she did a doctorate in the field of Old Testament on \"God as father\" (Guetersloh, 2nd edition, 2002). Shortly after that she converted to Judaism.\n\nFrom 2000 until 2002 she headed the Berlin branch of the Juedische Verlagsanstalt Berlin, from 2003 until 2004 she was a member of the teaching staff at the Abraham-Geiger-Kolleg rabbinical seminary in Potsdam. In 2004 she took up a post as research associate for Bible and Jewish exegesis at the Hochschule für Jüdische Studien in Heidelberg which she held until 2007. Her fields of research are literary analysis of Bible texts and the reception of the Bible in Jewish liturgy.\n\nShe translated the Jewish liberal prayerbook \"Seder haTefillot\" (Guetersloh, 1997). She also translated and edited Rabbi W. Gunther Plaut's Torah commentary (Guetersloh 1999-2004). She is editor of the annual German Jewish calendar \"Durch das juedische Jahr\", published by the Juedische Verlagsansstalt Berlin since 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33814423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33814423", "title": "Association of Canadian Archivists", "text": "Association of Canadian Archivists\n\nThe Association of Canadian Archivists (ACA), established in 1975, is a national not-for-profit organization representing over 600 archivists (and those interested in archives and archivists) in Canada. With headquarters in Ottawa, the ACA's mandate is to provide leadership to the archival profession and to increase an understanding and appreciation of Canada's archival heritage.\n\nThe ACA evolved from the Archives Section of the Canadian Historical Association. For many years it held its annual conference together with other scholarly groups as part of the Congress of the Canadian Federation for the Humanities and Social Sciences (formerly the \"Learneds\").\n\nThe mission of the ACA is to provide strong and diversified professional leadership and support to the Canadian archival community in the following areas: advocacy; communications; governance; public awareness; and education, research, professional standards and best practices. It does so by: \n\nHistorically, the ACA produced \"Guidelines Toward a Curriculum for a Master's Degree in Archival Science\" prepared by Hugh Taylor and Edwin Welch in 1976. These were followed by \"Guidelines for the Development of a two-year Curriculum for a Master of Archival Studies\" in 1990. In the same year, the ACA collaborated with the Canadian archival community in the development and publication of Canadian archival standards for description, the Rules for Archival Description.\n\nOngoing ACA activities include: the production of a quarterly newsletter (\"ACA Bulletin\") and a bi-annual scholarly journal (\"Archivaria\"); a publications program for monographs and occasional papers; an archival professional development program; a mentorship program; awards for excellence in writing and research and for contributions to the Canadian archival community; and an annual conference, with meetings and workshops. The ACA has a formal constitution and a Code of Ethics. More recently, the ACA posted the entire collection of \"Archivaria\" and its predecessor, \"The Canadian Archivist\", to the web, much of which is freely publicly accessible.\n\nVarious committees provide support and direction on a variety of archival issues such as Outreach and Professional Learning. In addition, members are appointed to represent the association to address specific issues such as the release of Canadian censuses and the English Commission on the former National Archives of Canada. There also Special Interest Sections (SIS) that allow members interested in particular types of records or who work in a particular kind of archives to get together with others with a similar interest. These SISes include: Aboriginal Archives (SISAA); Access and Privacy (APSIS); Climate Records and Information (CRISIS); Government Records (GRSIS); Municipal Archives (MASIS); Personal Archives (SISPA); Religious Archives (RASIS); Social Justice (SJSIS); Technology and Archives (TaASIS); and University and College Archives (UCASIS). TaASIS runs the popular Archives and Technology Unconference (TAATU) in conjunction with the ACA's annual conference. The ACA also has several student chapters located at Canadian universities that offer graduate programs with an archival studies component. Student chapters are located at Dalhousie University, McGill University, the University of British Columbia Student Chapter and the University of Toronto.\n\nA companion organization, the Association of Canadian Archivists Foundation, raises and grants funds to support the educational and research needs of the Canadian archival profession.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38937478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38937478", "title": "Battle of Lao Cai", "text": "Battle of Lao Cai\n\nThe Battle of Lào Cai was fought between Chinese and Vietnamese forces during the Sino-Vietnamese War. Though the Chinese sustained heavy losses in fighting, they were successful in capturing and occupying the city of Lào Cai and the vicinal towns.\n\nThe Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Kunming Military Region took responsibility for Chinese operations in Lào Cai direction, which involved the 11th and 13th Armies from the Kunming Military Region itself, and the 14th Army from the Chengdu Military Region, totaling about 125,000 troops. The three armies was followed by the reserve 149th Division of the 50th Army, as well as many support units. The invasion comprised three prongs of advances: while the 11th Army was assigned to attack Phong Thổ before hooking up to Sapa and Lào Cai from the west, the 14th Army was ordered to take Mường Khương and move against Lào Cai from the east; the central thrust was undertaken by the 13th Army, targeting Lào Cai itself, as well as the township of Cam Đường to the south.\n\nFor the Vietnamese side, historians believe that the defense of the Hoàng Liên Sơn Province (modern-day Lào Cai and Yên Bái Provinces) was conducted by several regiments of the Vietnam People's Army (VPA), some of which consisted of the regular 345th and 316th Divisions. The 345th, which had originally been an economic construction unit transformed into a combat division, took responsibility for defending Bảo Thắng, while the elite 316th was garrisoned in the Bình Lư area. The two regular divisions were backed up by some 20,000 troops from regional and militia units.\n\nThe battle began before the dawn of 17 February by a Chinese artillery barrage against Vietnamese positions. The first objectives for the PLA were the towns of Bát Xát, Mường Khương, and Pha Long. 20,000 troops from the PLA 13th Army crossed the Red River into Bát Xát using pontoon bridges, quickly overrunning the Vietnamese defense held by the VPA 192nd Regiment, as well as the independent 2nd and Lao Cai Battalions. No attack was staged against Phong Thổ on the first day.\n\nThe brunt of Chinese assaults fell on the VPA 345th Division, which resisted toughly. Two Chinese regiments were held off at Mống Xến and in the area south of Chu Dang and west of Nhạc Sơn, which forced the PLA to change their plan into a mop-up operation against the Vietnamese strongholds. By the dusk of 18 February, the Vietnamese defenders in Bảo Thắng and Cốc Lếu had been completely encircled. At 14:00 on 19 February, the PLA captured Lào Cai City. In response to the lost of the provincial capital, the VPA 345th Division command sent one battalion from its 118th Regiment to reinforce its 121th Regiment's positions at Coc Tha, Dien Na, Dung Ha and Chan Uy, while the VPA 316th Division was mobilized eastward to Sapa.\n\nHaving Lào Cai taken, the PLA then sent troops, presumably from the 13th Army, to Cam Đường to the south, and another group (probably from the 14th Army) advancing along Highway 4D to Sapa, which was 38 km to the southwest. The Kunming Military Region Command used fresh elements from the 149th Division and the 11th Army to reinforce the 13th Army in the efforts against Cam Đường. A blocking position was established by four companies from the PLA 39th Division of the 13th Army on Highway 10 at Thay Nai to cut the VPA 345th Division from supply. The VPA 316th Division was then dispatched from Sapa to meet the approaching Chinese forces, and ran into contact on the secondary road between Lào Cai and Sapa on 22 February. From 22 to 25 February, its 148th Regiment launched repetitive attacks against the Chinese block at Thay Nai, yet failing to secure its way to Cam Đường. Two PLA divisions from the 13th Army, the 37th and 38th, were deployed against the VPA 345th Division, which was defending a narrow area north of Cam Đường. By 25 February, the Chinese had seized Cam Đường, yet were still struggling to exterminate pockets of Vietnamese resistance in Lào Cai and other towns under their control, a situation which had not ended until 27 February.\n\nOn 24 February, the PLA decided to supplement their reserves, the 149th Division, to the fight against the VPA 316th Division. Chinese efforts now concentrating on cutting off the retreat of the VPA 316th Division, as the PLA 447th Regiment skirted around Mount Phan Xi Pang through the Hoang Lien Son Pass and maneuvered toward the direction of Bình Lư, which was 44 km west of Sapa. In meantime, the rest of the 149th Division pushed toward Sapa along two roads parallel to Highway 10. Despite showing excellent combat performance, the VPA 316th Division was finally forced to retreat due to the lack of manpower. At 14:45 on 1 March, Sapa fell to the PLA. On the eastern wing of the offensive, Khoc Tiam succumbed to a night assault raging from 20:00 on 2 March to 14:45 on 3 March. At 19:00 on 3 March, all roads that connected Phong Thổ with Bình Lư and Pa Tần had been under Chinese control. On 4 March, Chinese forces eventually captured the town, thus successfully blocking the supply route to the VPA 316th Division from Lai Châu; the blocking position was at least 40 km from the Sino-Vietnamese border, becoming the deepest Chinese penetration in the war. The 316th Division finally ceased fighting on 5 March. On the same day, the Chinese government announced the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam.\n\nIn the end, the Chinese claimed to have inflicted 13,500 Vietnamese casualties, while suffering 2,812 killed out of 7,886 casualties of their own. On the other hand, Vietnamese accounts put the number of Chinese casualties at 11,500. Similar to the fighting in other fronts, during the Lao Cai campaign, the \"human wave\" tactic was thoroughly applied by the PLA for every smallest objective, as portrayed by a Vietnamese soldier in an interview by French journalist Jean-Pierre Gallois: \"The Chinese infantry advance shoulder to shoulder to make sure the minefields are cleared... When they moved out of Lao Cai they were as numerous and close together as rice in the paddy fields.\" As Sapa was a town possessing almost no strategic value, the Chinese campaign in the western front did not end with a notable victory. The PLA did, however, succeed in one of their key goals – engaging a considerable Vietnamese regular force and inflicting heavy losses on it – even at a high price for themselves as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3111013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3111013", "title": "British School at Rome", "text": "British School at Rome\n\nThe British School at Rome (BSR) is an interdisciplinary research centre supporting the arts, humanities and architecture.\n\nThe British School at Rome (BSR) was established in 1901 and granted a UK Royal Charter in 1912. Its mission is \"to promote knowledge of and deep engagement with all aspects of the art, history and culture of Italy by scholars and fine artists from Britain and the Commonwealth, and to foster international and interdisciplinary exchange.\"\n\nFollowing the International Exhibition of Art in Rome in 1911, the site of the Edwin Lutyens-designed British Pavilion in the Valle Giulia was granted to the UK on condition that it be used exclusively as a British research centre for archaeology, history and the fine arts. In 1916, after significant adaptation by Lutyens, the BSR moved into what is still its home. In 2002, a purpose-built lecture theatre and gallery spaces, designed by Hugh Petter and sponsored by the Sainsbury family, were opened by HRH Princess Alexandra. The BSR is immediately adjacent to the Villa Borghese gardens and the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Moderna.\n\nThe BSR awards residential scholarships and fellowships to artists and scholars from the Commonwealth for periods of three to twelve months. The awardees live in the BSR building and have access to its specialist reference library. Recipients of the fine art awards are provided with studio and workshop facilities.\n\nAwards, based on an open access application system, are made in the following fields: Archaeology of Italy and the Mediterranean; Late Antique and Medieval History; Renaissance and Enlightenment studies; Modern Italian Studies; Architectural History; Architecture including Landscape Architecture; contemporary visual arts practice.\n\nThe British School at Rome is one of the sponsored institutes of the British Academy, whilst maintaining itself as an autonomous body. It receives financial support from the British Academy, award sponsors, private donors and its membership, and is a registered charity under English law.\n\nThe BSR is led by a Director, who has traditionally been a senior scholar in the fields of Classical history, art history, or archaeology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80249", "title": "Charles Hapgood", "text": "Charles Hapgood\n\nCharles Hutchins Hapgood (May 17, 1904 – December 21, 1982) was an American college professor and author who became one of the best known advocates of the claim of a rapid and recent pole shift with catastrophic results.\n\nHapgood received a master's degree from Harvard University in 1929 in medieval and modern History. His Ph.D. work on the French Revolution was interrupted by the Great Depression. He taught for a year in Vermont and directed a community center in Provincetown, also serving as the executive secretary of Franklin Roosevelt's Crafts Commission.\n\nDuring World War II, Hapgood was employed by the Center of Information (which later became the Office of Strategic Services and then the Central Intelligence Agency) and the Red Cross, and also served as a liaison officer between the White House and the Office of the Secretary of the War. After the war, Hapgood taught at Keystone College (1945–1947), Springfield College (1947–1952), Keene State College (1956–1966), and New England College (1966–1967), lecturing in world and American history, anthropology, economics, and the history of science.\n\nHapgood married Tamsin Hughes in 1941 but divorced in 1955. He was struck by a car in Greenfield, Massachusetts, and died on December 21, 1982.\n\nWhile at Springfield College, a student's question about the Lost Continent of Mu prompted a class project to investigate the lost continent of Atlantis, leading Hapgood to investigate possible ways that massive earth changes could occur and exposing him to the literature of Hugh Auchincloss Brown.\n\nIn 1958, Hapgood published \"The Earth's Shifting Crust\" which denied the existence of continental drift and included a foreword by Albert Einstein. In \"Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings\" (1966) and \"The Path of the Pole\" (1970), Hapgood proposed the hypothesis that the Earth's axis has shifted numerous times during geological history. \"The Path of the Pole\" was meant as a replacement for \"The Earth's Shifting Crust\" after corrections were suggested to him. Hapgood writes in \"Voices of Spirit\" (1975): \"In later discussions we discussed the theories of my book ‘Earth’s Shifting Crust’, and he [Einstein] suggested that one of them was wrong; as a result of this I revised my book, which subsequently was republished as ‘The Path of the Pole’. My own further research confirmed the truth of his observation, which involved technicalities of geophysics.”\n\nIn \"Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings\" he supported the suggestion made by Arlington Mallery that a part of the Piri Reis Map was a depiction of the area of Antarctica known as Queen Maud Land. He used this to propose that a 15 degree pole shift occurred around 9,600 BCE (approx. 11,600 years ago) and that a part of the Antarctic was ice-free at that time, and that an ice-age civilization could have mapped the coast. \nHe concludes that \"Antarctica was mapped when these parts were free of ice\", taking that view that an Antarctic warm period coincided with the last ice age in the Northern hemisphere, and that the Piri Reis and other maps were based on \"ancient\" maps derived from ice-age originals. Later research concerning the paleoclimatology and ice sheets of Antarctica have completely discredited the interpretations by Hapgood that an Antarctic warm period coincided with the last glacial period in the Northern hemisphere and any part of it had been ice-free at and prior to 9,600 BCE (approx. 11,600 years ago).\n\nHapgood also examined a 1531 map by French mathematician and cartographer Oronce Finé (aka \"Oronteus Finaeus\"). In \"Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings\", he reproduces letters that he states he received from the chief of a U.S. Air Force cartography section stationed at Westover AFB in 1961. These letters say that at Hapgood's request, they had studied both Piri Reis and Oronce Finé maps during their off-duty hours, concluding that both were compiled from original source maps of Antarctica at a time when it was relatively free of ice, supporting Hapgood's findings. Hapgood concluded that advanced cartographic knowledge appears on the Piri Reis map and the Oronteus Finaeus map, and must be the result of some unknown ancient civilization that developed advanced scientific knowledge before other civilizations such as Greece.\n\nAccording to historians Paul Hoye and Paul Lunde, while Hapgood's work garnered some enthusiasm and praise for its thoroughness, his revolutionary hypotheses largely met with skepticism and were ignored by most scholars. In the book \"The Piri Reis Map of 1513\" Gregory C. McIntosh examines Hapgood's claims for both maps and states that \"they fall short of proving or even strongly suggesting that the Piri Reis map and the Fine map depict the actual outline of Antarctica.\"\n\nHapgood's unorthodox interpretations such as “Earth Crustal Displacement” were never accepted as valid competing scientific hypotheses, yet his ideas have found popularity in alternative circles. Librarians Rose and Rand Flem-Ath as well as author and former journalist Graham Hancock base portions of their works on Hapgood's evidence for catastrophe at the end of the Last Glacial Maximum. Hapgood's ideas also figure prominently in the 2009 sci-fi/disaster movie \"2012.\"\n\nHapgood and Erle Stanley Gardner thought the collection of clay artifacts known as the Acambaro figurines were created thousands of years ago. The date estimate as well as the notion the artifacts were made by some undiscovered culture was rejected by archeologists and paleontologists. The figurines, which most archaeologists dismiss as an elaborate hoax, depict oddities such as dinosaurs coexisting with men and horned humans. In the introduction to later editions of Hapgood's 1973 book, \"Mystery in Acambaro\", David Hatcher Childress wrote that Hapgood and Gardner thought the figurines were genuine and were evidence that orthodox understandings of dinosaur extinction were wrong.\n\nHapgood spent ten years working with New England medium Elwood Babbitt (b. 1922), attempting to make contact with notable figures from the past. Babbitt, a retired carpenter and World War II veteran, had studied trance mediumship at Edgar Cayce's Association for Research and Enlightenment. Hapgood audiotaped and transcribed a number of Babbitt's \"trance lectures\" which purported to come from Jesus, Albert Einstein, Mark Twain, and the Hindu god Vishnu, using the material to publish his final three books:\"Voices of Spirit, Through the Psychic Experience of Elwood Babbitt\" (1975), \"Talks with Christ and His Teachers Through the Psychic Gift of Elwood Babbitt\" (1981), and \"The God Within: a Testament of Vishnu, a Handbook for the Spiritual Renaissance\" (1982).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54422", "title": "Chinese Civil War", "text": "Chinese Civil War\n\nThe Chinese Civil War was a war fought between the Kuomintang (KMT)-led government of the Republic of China and the Communist Party of China (CPC). Although particular attention is paid to the four years of Chinese Communist Revolution from 1945 to 1949, the war actually started in August 1927, with the White Terror at the end of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek's Northern Expedition, and essentially ended when major hostilities between the two sides ceased in 1950. The conflict took place in two stages: the first between 1927 and 1937, and the second from 1946 to 1950, with the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937–1945 separating them. The war marked a major turning point in modern Chinese history, with the Communists gaining control of mainland China and establishing the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1949, forcing the Republic of China (ROC) to retreat to Taiwan. It resulted in a lasting political and military standoff between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait, with the ROC in Taiwan and the PRC on mainland China with both officially claiming to be the legitimate government of all China.\n\nThe war represented an ideological split between the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Nationalist Party of China (or Kuomintang). Conflict continued intermittently until late 1937, when the two parties came together to form the Second United Front to counter the Imperial Japanese Army threat and to prevent the country from crumbling. Full-scale civil war in China resumed in 1946, a year after the end of hostilities with the Empire of Japan in September 1945. Four years later came the cessation of major military activity, with the newly founded People's Republic of China controlling mainland China (including the island of Hainan), and the Republic of China's jurisdiction restricted to Taiwan, Penghu, Quemoy, Matsu and several outlying islands.\n\nAs of November 2018 no armistice or peace treaty has ever been signed, and the debate continues as to whether the civil war has legally ended. Relations between both sides, officially called the Cross-Strait relations, have been hindered by military threats and political and economic pressure, particularly over Taiwan's political status, with both governments officially adhering to the One-China policy. The PRC still actively claims Taiwan as part of its territory and continues to threaten the ROC with a military invasion if the ROC officially declares independence by changing its name to and gaining international recognition as the \"Republic of Taiwan\". The ROC, for its part, claims mainland China, and both parties continue the fight over diplomatic recognition. the war as such occurs on the political and economic fronts without actual military action. However, the two separate governments in China have close economic ties.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Qing Dynasty in the aftermath of the Xinhai Revolution, China fell into a brief period of civil war before Yuan Shikai assumed the presidency of the newly formed Republic of China. The administration became known as the Beiyang Government, with its capital in Peking. After the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916, the following years were characterized by the power struggle between different cliques in the former Beiyang Army. In the meantime, the Kuomintang, led by Sun Yat-sen, created a new government in Guangzhou to resist the rule of Beiyang Government through a series of movements.\n\nSun's efforts to obtain aid from the Western countries were ignored, thus he turned to the Soviet Union in 1921. For political expediency, the Soviet leadership initiated a dual policy of support for both Sun and the newly established Communist Party of China, which would eventually found the People's Republic of China. Thus the struggle for power in China began between the KMT and the CPC.\n\nIn 1923, a joint statement by Sun and Soviet representative Adolph Joffe in Shanghai pledged Soviet assistance to China's unification. The Sun-Joffe Manifesto was a declaration of cooperation among the Comintern, KMT and CPC. Comintern agent Mikhail Borodin arrived in China in 1923 to aid in the reorganization and consolidation of the KMT along the lines of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. The CPC joined the KMT to form the First United Front.\n\nIn 1923, Sun sent Chiang Kai-shek, one of his lieutenants from his Tongmenghui days, for several months of military and political study in the Soviet capital Moscow. By 1924, Chiang became the head of the Whampoa Military Academy, and rose to prominence as Sun's successor as head of the KMT.\n\nThe Soviets provided the academy with much educational material, organization and equipment, including munitions. They also provided education in many of the techniques for mass mobilization. With this aid, Sun was able to raise a dedicated \"army of the party,\" with which he hoped to defeat the warlords militarily. CPC members were also present in the academy, and many of them became instructors, including Zhou Enlai, who was made a political instructor.\n\nCommunist members were allowed to join the KMT on an individual basis. The CPC itself was still small at the time, having a membership of 300 in 1922 and only 1,500 by 1925. As of 1923, the KMT had 50,000 members.\n\nHowever, after Sun died in 1925, the KMT split into left- and right-wing movements. KMT members worried that the Soviets were trying to destroy the KMT from inside using the CPC. The CPC then began movements in opposition of the Northern Expedition, passing a resolution against it at a party meeting.\n\nThen, in March 1927, the KMT held its second party meeting where the Soviets helped pass resolutions against the Expedition and curbing Chiang's power. Soon, the KMT would be clearly divided.\n\nThroughout this time the Soviet Union had a large impact on the Communist Party of China. They sent money and spies to support the Chinese Communist Party. Without their support the communist party would have failed. There are documents showing of other communist parties in China at the time, one with as many as 10,000 members, but they all failed without support from the Soviet Union.\n\nIn early 1927, the KMT-CPC rivalry led to a split in the revolutionary ranks. The CPC and the left wing of the KMT had decided to move the seat of the KMT government from Guangzhou to Wuhan, where communist influence was strong. However, Chiang and Li Zongren, whose armies defeated warlord Sun Chuanfang, moved eastward toward Jiangxi. The leftists rejected Chiang's demand to eliminate Communist influence within KMT and Chiang denounced them for betraying Sun Yat-sen's Three Principles of the People by taking orders from the Soviet Union. According to Mao Zedong, Chiang's tolerance of the CPC in the KMT camp decreased as his power increased.\n\nOn April 7, Chiang and several other KMT leaders held a meeting, during which they proposed that Communist activities were socially and economically disruptive and had to be undone for the Nationalist revolution to proceed. On April 12, in Shanghai, many Communist members in the KMT were purged through hundreds of arrests and executions on the orders of General Bai Chongxi. The CPC referred to this as the April 12 Incident or Shanghai Massacre. This incident widened the rift between Chiang and Wang Jingwei, another warlord who controlled the city of Wuhan.\n\nEventually, the left wing of the KMT also expelled CPC members from the Wuhan government, which in turn was toppled by Chiang Kai-shek. The KMT resumed its campaign against warlords and captured Beijing in June 1928. Soon, most of eastern China was under the control of the Nanjing central government, which received prompt international recognition as the sole legitimate government of China. The KMT government announced, in conformity with Sun Yat-sen, the formula for the three stages of revolution: military unification, political tutelage, and constitutional democracy.\n\nOn 1 August 1927, the Communist Party launched an uprising in Nanchang against the Nationalist government in Wuhan. This conflict led to the creation of the Red Army. On August 4, the main forces of the Red Army left Nanchang and headed southwards for an assault on Guangdong. Nationalist forces quickly reoccupied Nanchang while the remaining members of the CPC in Nanchang went into hiding. A CPC meeting on August 7 confirmed the objective of the party is to seize the political power by force, but the CPC was quickly suppressed the next day on August 8 by the Nationalist government in Wuhan led by Wang Jingwei. On August 14, Chiang Kai-shek announced his temporary retirement, as the Wuhan faction and Nanjing faction of the Kuomintang were allied once again with common goal of suppressing the Communist Party after the earlier split.\n\nAttempts were later made by the CPC to take the cities of Changsha, Shantou and Guangzhou. The Red Army consisting of mutinous former National Revolutionary Army (NRA) soldiers as well as armed peasants established control over several areas in southern China. KMT forces continued to attempt to suppress the rebellions. Then, in September, Wang Jingwei was forced out of Wuhan. September also saw an unsuccessful armed rural insurrection, known as the Autumn Harvest Uprising, led by Mao Zedong. Borodin then returned to the USSR in October via Mongolia. In November, Chiang Kai-shek went to Shanghai and invited Wang to join him. On December 11, the CPC started the Guangzhou Uprising, establishing a soviet there the next day, but lost the city by December 13 to a counter-attack under the orders of General Zhang Fakui. On December 16, Wang Jingwei fled to France. There were now three capitals in China: the internationally recognized republic capital in Beijing, the CPC and left-wing KMT at Wuhan and the right-wing KMT regime at Nanjing, which would remain the KMT capital for the next decade.\n\nThis marked the beginning of a ten-year armed struggle, known in mainland China as the \"Ten-Year Civil War\" (十年内战) which ended with the Xi'an Incident when Chiang Kai-shek was forced to form the Second United Front against invading forces from Japan. In 1930 the Central Plains War broke out as an internal conflict of the KMT. It was launched by Feng Yuxiang, Yan Xishan and Wang Jingwei. The attention was turned to root out remaining pockets of Communist activity in a series of five encirclement campaigns. The first and second campaigns failed and the third was aborted due to the Mukden Incident. The fourth campaign (1932–1933) achieved some early successes, but Chiang's armies were badly mauled when they tried to penetrate into the heart of Mao's Soviet Chinese Republic. During these campaigns, KMT columns struck swiftly into Communist areas, but were easily engulfed by the vast countryside and were not able to consolidate their foothold.\n\nFinally, in late 1934, Chiang launched a fifth campaign that involved the systematic encirclement of the Jiangxi Soviet region with fortified blockhouses. Unlike previous campaigns in which they penetrated deeply in a single strike, this time the KMT troops patiently built blockhouses, each separated by about five miles, to surround the Communist areas and cut off their supplies and food sources.\n\nIn October 1934 the CPC took advantage of gaps in the ring of blockhouses (manned by the forces of a warlord ally of Chiang Kai-shek's, rather than regular KMT troops) and broke out of the encirclement. The warlord armies were reluctant to challenge Communist forces for fear of losing their own men and did not pursue the CPC with much fervor. In addition, the main KMT forces were preoccupied with annihilating Zhang Guotao's army, which was much larger than Mao's. The massive military retreat of Communist forces lasted a year and covered what Mao estimated as 12,500 km (25,000 Li); it became known as the Long March. The Long March was a military retreat taken on by the Communist Party of China, led by Mao Zedong to evade the pursuit or attack of the Kuomintang army. It consisted of a series of marches, during which numerous Communist armies in the south escaped to the north and west. Over the course of the march from Jiangxi the First Front Army, led by an inexperienced military commission, was on the brink of annihilation by Chiang Kai Shek's troops as their stronghold was in Jiangxi. The Communists, under the command of Mao Zedong and Zhou Enlai, \"escaped in a circling retreat to the west and north, which reportedly traversed over 9,000 kilometers over 370 days\". The route passed through some of the most difficult terrain of western China by traveling west, and then northwards towards Shaanxi. \"In November 1935, shortly after settling in northern Shaanxi, Mao officially took over Zhou Enlai's leading position in the Red Army. Following a major reshuffling of official roles, Mao became the chairman of the Military Commission, with Zhou and Deng Xiaoping as vice-chairmen.\" This marked Mao's position as the pre-eminent leader of the Party, with Zhou in second position to him.\n\nThe march ended when the CPC reached the interior of Shaanxi. Zhang Guotao's army, which took a different route through northwest China, was largely destroyed by the forces of Chiang Kai-shek and his Chinese Muslim allies, the Ma clique. Along the way, the Communist army confiscated property and weapons from local warlords and landlords, while recruiting peasants and the poor, solidifying its appeal to the masses. Of the 90,000–100,000 people who began the Long March from the Soviet Chinese Republic, only around 7,000–8,000 made it to Shaanxi. The remnants of Zhang's forces eventually joined Mao in Shaanxi, but with his army destroyed, Zhang, even as a founding member of the CPC, was never able to challenge Mao's authority. Essentially, the great retreat made Mao the undisputed leader of the Communist Party of China.\n\nThe Kuomintang used Khampa troops—who were former bandits—to battle the Communist Red Army as it advanced and to undermine local warlords who often refused to fight Communist forces to conserve their own strength. The KMT enlisted 300 \"Khampa bandits\" into its Consolatory Commission military in Sichuan, where they were part of the effort of the central government to penetrate and destabilize local Han warlords such as Liu Wenhui. The government was seeking to exert full control over frontier areas against the warlords. Liu had refused to battle the Communists in order to conserve his army. The Consolatory Commission forces were used to battle the Red Army, but they were defeated when their religious leader was captured by the Communists.\n\nIn 1936, Zhou Enlai and Zhang Xueliang grew closer, with Zhang even suggesting that he join the CPC. However, this was turned down by the Comintern in the USSR. Later on, Zhou persuaded Zhang and Yang Hucheng, another warlord, to instigate the Xi'an Incident. Chiang was placed under house arrest and forced to stop his attacks on the Red Army, instead focusing on the Japanese threat.\n\nDuring Japan's invasion and occupation of Manchuria Chiang Kai-shek, who saw the CPC as a greater threat, refused to ally with them to fight against the Imperial Japanese Army. Chiang preferred to unite China by eliminating the warlords and CPC forces first. He believed that he was still too weak to launch an offensive to chase out Japan and that China needed time for a military build-up. Only after unification would it be possible for the KMT to mobilize a war against Japan. So he would rather ignore the discontent and anger among Chinese people at his policy of compromise with the Japanese, and ordered KMT generals Zhang Xueliang and Yang Hucheng to carry out suppression of the CPC; however, their provincial forces suffered significant casualties in battles with the Red Army.ref\n\nOn 12 December 1936, the disgruntled Zhang Xueliang and Yang Hucheng conspired to kidnap Chiang and force him into a truce with the CPC. The incident became known as the Xi'an Incident. Both parties suspended fighting to form a Second United Front to focus their energies and fighting against the Japanese. In 1937 Japan launched its full-scale invasion of China and its well-equipped troops overran KMT defenders in northern and coastal China.\n\nThe alliance of CPC and KMT was in name only. Unlike the KMT troops, CPC shunned conventional warfare and instead engaged in guerrilla warfare against the Japanese. The level of actual cooperation and coordination between the CPC and KMT during World War II was at best minimal. In the midst of the Second United Front, the CPC and the KMT were still vying for territorial advantage in \"Free China\" (i.e., areas not occupied by the Japanese or ruled by Japanese puppet governments such as Manchukuo and the Reorganized National Government of China).\n\nThe situation came to a head in late 1940 and early 1941 when clashes between Communist and KMT forces intensified. In December 1940 Chiang demanded that the CPC's New Fourth Army evacuate Anhui and Jiangsu Provinces due to its provocation and harassment of KMT forces in this area. Under intense pressure, the New Fourth Army commanders complied. In 1941 they were ambushed by KMT forces during their evacuation, which led to several thousand deaths. It also ended the Second United Front, which had been formed earlier to fight the Japanese.\n\nDespite the intensified clashes between the CPC and KMT, countries such as the United States and the Soviet Union attempted to prevent a disastrous civil war. After the New Fourth Army incident, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt sent special envoy Lauchlin Currie to talk with Chiang Kai-shek and KMT party leaders to express their concern regarding the hostility between the two parties, with Currie stating that the only ones to benefit from a civil war would be the Japanese. In 1941 the Soviet Union, with its closer alliance to the CPC, also sent an imperative telegram to Mao warning that the civil war would also make the situation easier for the Japanese military. Due to the international community's efforts, there was a temporary and superficial peace. In 1943 Chiang attacked the CPC with the propaganda piece \"China's Destiny\", which questioned the CPC's power after the war, while the CPC strongly opposed Chiang's leadership and referred to his regime as fascist in an attempt to generate a negative public image. Both leaders knew that a deadly battle had begun between themselves.\n\nIn general, developments in the Second Sino-Japanese War were to the advantage of the CPC, as its guerrilla war tactics had won them popular support within the Japanese-occupied areas. However, the KMT had to defend the country against the main Japanese campaigns, since it was the legal Chinese government, and this proved costly to Chiang Kai-shek and his troops. In 1944 Japan launched its last major offensive against the KMT, Operation Ichi-Go, which resulted in the severe weakening of Chiang's forces. The CPC also suffered fewer losses through their guerrilla tactics. By the end of the war, the Red Army had grown to more than 1.3 million members, with a separate militia of over 2.6 million members. About one hundred million people lived in CPC-controlled zones.\n\nUnder the terms of the Japanese unconditional surrender dictated by the United States, Japanese troops were ordered to surrender to KMT troops and not to the CPC, which was present in some of the occupied areas. In Manchuria, however, where the KMT had no forces, the Japanese surrendered to the Soviet Union. Chiang Kai-shek ordered the Japanese troops to remain at their post to receive the Kuomintang and not surrender their arms to the Communists.\n\nThe first post-war peace negotiation was attended by both Chiang Kai-shek and Mao Zedong in Chongqing from 28 August 1945 and concluded on 10 October 1945 with the signing of Double Tenth Agreement. Both sides stressed the importance of a peaceful reconstruction, but the conference did not produce any concrete results. Battles between the two sides continued even as peace negotiations were in progress, until the agreement was reached in January 1946. However, large campaigns and full-scale confrontations between the CPC and Chiang's troops were temporarily avoided.\n\nIn the last month of World War II in East Asia, Soviet forces launched the huge Manchurian Strategic Offensive Operation to attack the Japanese 2 million strong Kwantung Army in Manchuria and along the Chinese-Mongolian border. This operation destroyed the fighting capability of Japan's Kwantung Army in just 3 weeks and left the USSR occupying all of Manchuria by the end of the war in a total power vacuum of local Chinese forces. Consequently, the 700,000 Japanese troops stationed in the region surrendered. Later in the year Chiang Kai-shek realized that he lacked the resources to prevent a CPC takeover of Manchuria following the scheduled Soviet departure. He therefore made a deal with the Russians to delay their withdrawal until he had moved enough of his best-trained men and modern material into the region; however, the Russians refused permission for the Nationalist troops to traverse its territory. KMT troops were then airlifted by the US to occupy key cities in North China, while the countryside was already dominated by the CPC. On 15 November 1945, an offensive began with the intent of preventing the CPC from strengthening its already strong base. The Soviets spent the extra time systematically dismantling the extensive Manchurian industrial base (worth up to $2 billion) and shipping it back to their war-ravaged country.\n\nYang Kuisong, a Chinese historian, said that in 1945–46, during the Soviet Red Army Manchurian campaign, Soviet leader Joseph Stalin commanded Marshal Rodion Malinovsky to give Mao Zedong most Imperial Japanese Army weapons that were captured.\n\nChiang Kai-shek's forces pushed as far as Chinchow (Jinzhou) by 26 November 1945, meeting with little resistance. This was followed by a Communist offensive on the Shantung (Shandong) Peninsula that was largely successful, as all of the peninsula, except what was controlled by the US, fell to the Communists. The truce fell apart in June 1946 when full-scale war between CPC and KMT forces broke out on June 26. China then entered a state of civil war that lasted more than three years.\n\nBy the end of the Second Sino-Japanese War, the power of the Communist Party grew considerably. Their main force grew to 1.2 million troops, backed with additional militia of 2 million, totalling 3.2 million troops. Their \"Liberated Zone\" in 1945 contained 19 base areas, including one-quarter of the country's territory and one-third of its population; this included many important towns and cities. Moreover, the Soviet Union turned over all of its captured Japanese weapons and a substantial amount of their own supplies to the Communists, who received Northeastern China from the Soviets as well.\n\nIn March 1946, despite repeated requests from Chiang, the Soviet Red Army under the command of Marshal Malinovsky continued to delay pulling out of Manchuria, while Malinovsky secretly told the CPC forces to move in behind them, which led to full-scale war for the control of the Northeast. These favorable conditions also facilitated many changes inside the Communist leadership: the more radical hard-line faction who wanted full military bloodshed and warfare to take-over China finally gained the upper hand and defeated the careful opportunists. Prior to giving control to Communist leaders, on March 27 Soviet diplomats requested a joint venture of industrial development with the Nationalist Party in Manchuria.\n\nAlthough General Marshall stated that he knew of no evidence that the CPC was being supplied by the Soviet Union, the CPC was able to utilize a large number of weapons abandoned by the Japanese, including some tanks, but it was not until large numbers of well-trained KMT troops began surrendering and joining the Communist forces that the CPC was finally able to master the hardware. However, despite the disadvantage in military hardware, the CPC's ultimate trump card was its land reform policy. The CPC continued to make the irresistible promise in the countryside to the massive number of landless and starving peasants that by fighting for the CPC they would be given their own land to grow crops once the victory was won.\n\nThis strategy enabled the CPC to access an almost unlimited supply of manpower for both combat and logistical purposes; despite suffering heavy casualties throughout many of the war's campaigns, man power continued to pour in massively. For example, during the Huaihai Campaign alone the CPC was able to mobilize 5,430,000 peasants to fight against the KMT forces.\n\nAfter the war with the Japanese ended, Chiang Kai-shek quickly moved KMT troops to newly liberated areas to prevent Communist forces from receiving the Japanese surrender. The US airlifted many KMT troops from central China to the Northeast (Manchuria). President Harry Truman was very clear about what he described as \"using the Japanese to hold off the Communists\". In his memoirs he writes:\n\nUsing the pretext of \"receiving the Japanese surrender\", business interests within the KMT government occupied most of the banks, factories and commercial properties, which had previously been seized by the Imperial Japanese Army. They also conscripted troops at an accelerated pace from the civilian population and hoarded supplies, preparing for a resumption of war with the Communists. These hasty and harsh preparations caused great hardship for the residents of cities such as Shanghai, where the unemployment rate rose dramatically to 37.5%.\n\nThe US strongly supported the Kuomintang forces. About 50,000 US soldiers were sent to guard strategic sites in Hupeh and Shandong. The US equipped and trained KMT troops, and transported Japanese and Koreans back to help KMT forces to occupy liberated zones as well as to contain Communist-controlled areas. American aid included substantial amounts of mostly surplus military supplies, and loans were made to the KMT. Within less than two years after the Sino-Japanese War, the KMT had received $4.43 billion from the US—most of which was military aid.\n\nAs postwar negotiations between the Nationalist government in Nanjing and the Communist Party failed, the civil war between these two parties resumed. This stage of war is referred to in mainland China and Communist historiography as the \"War of Liberation\" (). On 20 July 1946, Chiang Kai-shek launched a large-scale assault on Communist territory in North China with 113 brigades (a total of 1.6 million troops). This marked the first stage of the final phase in the Chinese Civil War.\n\nKnowing their disadvantages in manpower and equipment, the CPC executed a \"passive defense\" strategy. It avoided the strong points of the KMT army and was prepared to abandon territory in order to preserve its forces. In most cases the surrounding countryside and small towns had come under Communist influence long before the cities. The CPC also attempted to wear out the KMT forces as much as possible. This tactic seemed to be successful; after a year, the power balance became more favorable to the CPC. They wiped out 1.12 million KMT troops, while their strength grew to about two million men.\n\nIn March 1947 the KMT achieved a symbolic victory by seizing the CPC capital of Yan'an. The Communists counterattacked soon afterwards; on 30 June 1947 CPC troops crossed the Yellow River and moved to the Dabie Mountains area, restored and developed the Central Plain. At the same time, Communist forces also began to counterattack in Northeastern China, North China and East China.\n\nBy late 1948, the CPC eventually captured the northern cities of Shenyang and Changchun and seized control of the Northeast after suffering numerous setbacks while trying to take the cities, with the decisive Liaoshen Campaign. The New 1st Army, regarded as the best KMT army, was forced to surrender after the CPC conducted a brutal six-month siege of Changchun that resulted in more than 150,000 civilian deaths from starvation.\n\nThe capture of large KMT units provided the CPC with the tanks, heavy artillery and other combined-arms assets needed to execute offensive operations south of the Great Wall. By April 1948 the city of Luoyang fell, cutting the KMT army off from Xi'an. Following a fierce battle, the CPC captured Jinan and Shandong province on 24 September 1948. The Huaihai Campaign of late 1948 and early 1949 secured east-central China for the CPC. The outcome of these encounters were decisive for the military outcome of the civil war.\n\nThe Pingjin Campaign resulted in the Communist conquest of northern China. It lasted 64 days, from 21 November 1948, to 31 January 1949. The PLA suffered heavy casualties while securing Zhangjiakou, Tianjin along with its port and garrison at Dagu and Beiping. The CPC brought 890,000 troops from the northeast to oppose some 600,000 KMT troops. There were 40,000 CPC casualties at Zhangjiakou alone. They in turn killed, wounded or captured some 520,000 KMT during the campaign.\n\nAfter achieving decisive victory at Liaoshen, Huaihai and Pingjin campaigns, the CPC wiped out 144 regular and 29 non-regular KMT divisions, including 1.54 million veteran KMT troops, which significantly reduced the strength of Nationalist forces. Stalin initially favored a coalition government in postwar China, and tried to persuade Mao to stop the CPC from crossing the Yangtze and attacking the KMT positions south of the river. Mao rejected Stalin's position and on 21 April, and began the Yangtze River Crossing Campaign. On 23 April they captured the KMT's capital, Nanjing. The KMT government retreated to Canton (Guangzhou) until October 15, Chongqing until November 25, and then Chengdu before retreating to Taiwan on December 10. By late 1949 the People's Liberation Army was pursuing remnants of KMT forces southwards in southern China, and only Tibet was left. In addition, the Ili Rebellion was a Soviet-backed revolt by the Second East Turkestan Republic against the KMT from 1944–49, as the Mongolians in the People's Republic were in a border dispute with the Republic of China. A Chinese Muslim Hui cavalry regiment, the 14th Tungan Cavalry, was sent by the Chinese government to attack Mongol and Soviet positions along the border during the Pei-ta-shan Incident.\n\nThe Kuomintang made several last-ditch attempts to use Khampa troops against the Communists in southwest China. The Kuomintang formulated a plan in which three Khampa divisions would be assisted by the Panchen Lama to oppose the Communists. Kuomintang intelligence reported that some Tibetan tusi chiefs and the Khampa Su Yonghe controlled 80,000 troops in Sichuan, Qinghai and Tibet. They hoped to use them against the Communist army.\n\nOn 1 October 1949, Mao Zedong proclaimed the founding of the People's Republic of China with its capital at Beiping, which was returned to the former name Beijing. Chiang Kai-shek and approximately two million Nationalist soldiers retreated from mainland China to the island of Taiwan in December after the PLA advanced into the Sichuan province. Isolated Nationalist pockets of resistance remained in the area, but the majority of the resistance collapsed after the fall of Chengdu on 10 December 1949, with some resistance continuing in the far south.\n\nA PRC attempt to take the ROC-controlled island of Quemoy was thwarted in the Battle of Kuningtou, halting the PLA advance towards Taiwan. In December 1949, Chiang proclaimed Taipei the temporary capital of the Republic of China and continued to assert his government as the sole legitimate authority in China.\n\nThe Communists' other amphibious operations of 1950 were more successful: they led to the Communist conquest of Hainan Island in April 1950, capture of Wanshan Islands off the Guangdong coast (May–August 1950), Zhoushan Island off Zhejiang (May 1950).\n\nMost observers expected Chiang's government to eventually fall to the imminent invasion of Taiwan by the People's Liberation Army, and the US was initially reluctant in offering full support for Chiang in their final stand. US President Harry S. Truman announced on 5 January 1950 that the United States would not engage in any dispute involving the Taiwan Strait, and that he would not intervene in the event of an attack by the PRC. The situation quickly changed after the onset of the Korean War in June 1950. This led to changing political climate in the US, and President Truman ordered the United States Seventh Fleet to sail to the Taiwan Strait as part of the containment policy against potential Communist advance.\n\nIn June 1949 the ROC declared a \"closure\" of all mainland China ports and its navy attempted to intercept all foreign ships. The closure was from a point north of the mouth of Min River in Fujian to the mouth of the Liao River in Liaoning. Since mainland China's railroad network was underdeveloped, north-south trade depended heavily on sea lanes. ROC naval activity also caused severe hardship for mainland China fishermen.\n\nAfter losing mainland China, a group of approximately 3,000 KMT Central soldiers retreated to Burma and continued launching guerrilla attacks into south China during the Kuomintang Islamic Insurgency in China (1950–1958) and Campaign at the China–Burma Border. Their leader, Gen. Li Mi, was paid a salary by the ROC government and given the nominal title of Governor of Yunnan. Initially, the US supported these remnants and the Central Intelligence Agency provided them with military aid. After the Burmese government appealed to the United Nations in 1953, the US began pressuring the ROC to withdraw its loyalists. By the end of 1954 nearly 6,000 soldiers had left Burma and General Li declared his army disbanded. However, thousands remained, and the ROC continued to supply and command them, even secretly supplying reinforcements at times to maintain a base close to China.\n\nAfter the ROC complained to the United Nations against the Soviet Union for violating the Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Alliance to support the CPC, the UN General Assembly Resolution 505 was adopted on 1 February 1952, condemning the Soviet Union.\n\nThough viewed as a military liability by the US, the ROC viewed its remaining islands in Fujian as vital for any future campaign to defeat the PRC and retake mainland China. On 3 September 1954, the First Taiwan Strait Crisis began when the PLA started shelling Quemoy and threatened to take the Dachen Islands in Zhejiang. On 20 January 1955, the PLA took nearby Yijiangshan Island, with the entire ROC garrison of 720 troops killed or wounded defending the island. On January 24 of the same year, the United States Congress passed the Formosa Resolution authorizing the President to defend the ROC's offshore islands. The First Taiwan Straits crisis ended in March 1955 when the PLA ceased its bombardment. The crisis was brought to a close during the Bandung conference.\n\nThe Second Taiwan Strait Crisis began on 23 August 1958 with air and naval engagements between PRC and ROC forces, leading to intense artillery bombardment of Quemoy (by the PRC) and Amoy (by the ROC), and ended on November of the same year. PLA patrol boats blockaded the islands from ROC supply ships. Though the US rejected Chiang Kai-shek's proposal to bomb mainland China artillery batteries, it quickly moved to supply fighter jets and anti-aircraft missiles to the ROC. It also provided amphibious assault ships to land supplies, as a sunken ROC naval vessel was blocking the harbor. On September 7 the US escorted a convoy of ROC supply ships and the PRC refrained from firing.\n\nThe Third Taiwan Strait Crisis in 1995–96 escalated tensions between both sides when the PRC tested a series of missiles not far from Taiwan, although, arguably, Beijing ran the test to shift the 1996 presidential election vote in favor of the KMT, already facing a challenge from the opposition Democratic Progressive Party which did not agree with the \"One China Policy\" shared by the CPC and KMT.\n\nOn 25 October 1971, the United Nations General Assembly admitted the PRC and expelled the ROC, which had been a founding member of the United Nations and was one of the five permanent members of the Security Council. Representatives of Chiang Kai-shek refused to recognise their accreditations as representatives of China and left the assembly. Recognition for the People's Republic of China soon followed from most other member nations, including the United States.\n\nBy 1984 PRC and ROC began to de-escalate their diplomatic relations with each other, and cross-straits trade and investment has been growing ever since. The state of war was officially declared over by the ROC in 1991. Despite the end of the hostilities, the two sides have never signed any agreement or treaty to officially end the war. According to Mao Zedong, there were three ways of \"staving off imperialist intervention in the short term\" during the continuation of the Chinese Revolution. The first was through a rapid completion of the military takeover of the country, and through showing determination and strength against \"foreign attempts at challenging the new regime along its borders\". The second was by \"formalising a comprehensive military alliance with the Soviet Union\", which would dedicate Soviet power to directly defending China against its enemies; this aspect became extensively significant given the backdrop of the start of the Cold War. And finally the regime had to \"root out its domestic opponents : the heads of secret societies, religious sects, independent unions, or tribal and ethic organisations.\" By destroying the basis of domestic reaction, Mao believed a safer world for the Chinese revolution to spread in would come into existence.\n\nUnder the new ROC president Lee Teng-hui, the Temporary Provisions Effective During the Period of Communist Rebellion was renounced in May 1991, thus ending the chances of the Kuomintang's conquest to retake the mainland.\n\nWith the election in 2000 of Democratic Progressive Party candidate Chen Shui-bian, a party other than the KMT gained the presidency for the first time in Taiwan. The new president did not share the Chinese nationalist ideology of the KMT and CPC. This led to tension between the two sides, although trade and other ties such as the 2005 Pan-Blue visit continued to increase.\n\nWith the election of President Ma Ying-jeou (KMT) in 2008, significant warming of relations resumed between Taipei and Beijing, with high-level exchanges between the semi-official diplomatic organizations of both states such as the Chen-Chiang summit series. Although the Taiwan straits remain a potential flash point, regular direct air links were established in 2009.\n\nHistorian Odd Arne Westad says the Communists won the Civil War because they made fewer military mistakes than Chiang Kai-shek and also because in his search for a powerful centralized government, Chiang antagonized too many interest groups in China. Furthermore, his party was weakened in the war against the Japanese. Meanwhile, the Communists targeted different groups, such as peasants, and brought them to its corner.\n\nChiang wrote in his diary in June 1948 that the KMT had failed not because of external enemies but because of rot from within.\n\nThe USSR generally supported Chiang's forces. Stalin distrusted Mao, tried to block him from leadership as late as 1942, and worried that Mao would become an independent rival force in world communism.\n\nStrong American support for the Nationalists was hedged with the failure of the Marshall Mission, and then stopped completely mainly because of KMT corruption (such as the notorious Yangtze Development Corporation controlled by H.H. Kung and T. V. Soong's family) and KMT's military setback in Northeast China.\n\nCommunist land reform policy promised poor peasants farmland from their landlords, ensuring popular support for the PLA.\n\nThe main advantage of the Chinese Communist Party was the \"extraordinary cohesion\" within the top level of its leadership. These skills were not only secured from defections that came about during difficult times but also coupled with \"communications and top level debates over tactics\". A big addition to this was the charismatic style of leadership of Mao Zedong which created a \"unity of purpose\" and a \"unity of command\" which the KMT lacked majorly. Apart from that the CPC had mastered the manipulation of local politics to their benefit; this was also derived from their propaganda skills that had also been decentralised successfully. By \"portraying their opponents as enemies of all groups of Chinese\" and itself as \"defenders of the nation\" and people (given the backdrop of the war with Japan).\n\nIn the Chinese Civil War after 1945, the economy in the ROC areas collapsed because of hyperinflation and the failure of price controls by the ROC government and financial reforms; the Gold Yuan devaluated sharply in late 1948 and resulted in the ROC government losing the support of the cities' middle classes. In the meantime, the Communists continued their relentless land reform (land redistribution) programs to win the support of the population in the countryside.\n\nConflicts in the Chinese Civil War in the post-World War II era are listed chronologically by the starting dates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring the war both the Nationalists and Communists carried out mass atrocities, with millions of non-combatants deliberately killed by both sides. Benjamin Valentino has estimated atrocities in the Chinese Civil War resulted in the death of between 1.8 million and 3.5 million people between 1927 and 1949. Atrocities include deaths from forced conscription and massacres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29642689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29642689", "title": "Dacology", "text": "Dacology\n\nDacology is a branch of Thracology which focuses on the scientific study of Dacia and Dacian antiquities and is a regional and thematic branch of the larger disciplines of ancient history and archaeology. A practitioner of the discipline is a Dacologist. Dacology investigates the range of ancient Dacian culture (language, literature, history, religion, art, economics, and ethics) from c. 1000 BC up to the end of Roman rule in the 4th-7th centuries. It is directly subordinated to Thracology, since Dacians are considered a branch of the Thracians by most mainstream research and historical sources. Other theories sustain that the Daco-Thracian relation is not as strong as originally thought and as such Dacology has the potential to evolve as an independent discipline from Thracology.\n\nOne of the first mentions of the term Dacology was made by the historian Radu Vulpe at the 2nd \"International Congress of Thracology\" in September 1976 in connection with the Romanian historians Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu and Ion I. Russu. The \"Romanian Thracology Institute I.G Bibicescu\", part of Romanian Academy, was founded in Bucharest in the same year. One of his first directors was the thracologist Dumitru Berciu (1907–1998).\n\nThe related term Thraco-Dacology also exists, alluding to Thraco-Dacian, and one of the first uses is also from around 1980, in the Romanian government archive.\n\nThe term \"Dacologist\" has been negatively affected by the association with Protochronism. Some researchers prefer to call themselves Thracologists instead of Dacologists. This choice of title is made in the context of their research being focused on the Dacians and without necessarily promoting a strong connection between the Thracians and Dacians.\n\nResearchers who have been noted in the field of Dacology include:\n\nThere have been 11 editions of the \"International Congress of Dacology\" organized so far. However, they have been organized by the controversial Dacomanic group around Napoleon Săvescu, thus making the term Dacology synonymous with Protochronism in this ambiance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25031107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25031107", "title": "Daniel Thrap", "text": "Daniel Thrap\n\nDaniel Smith Thrap (18 September 1832 – 20 March 1913) was a Norwegian priest, historian and author.\n\nDaniel Thrap was born at Aker in Oslo, Norway. He was the son of Niels Andreas Thrap (1793-1856) and Maren Christine Bonnevie (1801-1838). He was a brother-in-law of civil servant Jochum Johansen.\n\nDaniel Thrap graduated with his cand.theol. degree in 1856. He worked in Bergen at the Bergen Cathedral and as chaplain for the Bergen prison system from 1857 to 1876. He was pastor in Modum in Buskerud from 1876 to 1880. From 1880 to 1902, he was vicar at Sofienberg Church (\"Sofienberg Kirke\") in Sofienbergparken within the district of Grünerløkka in Oslo.\nThrap wrote a number of biographies and published collections of sermon. He also wrote a number of articles for newspapers in both Bergen and Oslo. Additionally he edited the magazine \"Zuluvennen\", a publication for Norwegian mission churches. His notable works include \"Bidrag til den norske Kirkes Historie i det nittende Aarhundrede.\" which consisted of two volumes, released in 1884 and 1890.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39212798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39212798", "title": "Dead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Ancient Times", "text": "Dead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Ancient Times\n\nDead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Ancient Times, also known as Dead Sea Scrolls: The Exhibition, is a travelling exhibition of artifacts from the ancient Kingdoms of Israel and Judah, including a select number of the Dead Sea Scrolls. The exhibition was created by the Israel Antiquities Authority with items from the Israel National Treasures Department, and was produced by Discovery Times Square and the Franklin Institute. The exhibition claims to be the largest display of ancient Israeli artifacts ever displayed outside of Israel.\n\nThe exhibition first opened in New York City on October 28, 2011, under the title \"Dead Sea Scrolls: Life and Faith in Biblical Times\". It is curated by Dr. Risa Levitt Kohn of San Diego State University, and Debora Ben Ami of the Israel Antiquities Authority.\n\nThe exhibition features twenty of the Dead Sea Scrolls, displayed ten at a time. About 600 artifacts from the ancient Kingdoms of Israel and Judah are also displayed, including a stone block from the Western Wall of Jerusalem's Temple Mount.\n"}
{"id": "53589295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53589295", "title": "Dominique de Courcelles", "text": "Dominique de Courcelles\n\nDominique de Courcelles, (Paris 10 June 1953), is a French historian of ideas.\n\nDominique de Courcelles studied at the École nationale des chartes. She became an Archiviste-paléographe (archivist and paleographer) and \"Conservateur du patrimoine\" (heritage curator). She studied with Michel Mollat du Jourdin, Jacques Monfrin, and Yves-Marie Bercé. She was a research fellow at the Casa de Velázquez 1983-1986. She also studied with Albert Hauf and Martí de Riquer. She obtained her \"Doctorat ès lettres\" at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences) in 1988. She also earned a Master degree in theology at the Institut Catholique de Paris (Catholic University of Paris).\n\nShe is \"directrice de recherche\" at the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (National Center of Scientific Research). From 1993 to 2000 she was a member of the research group on the Spanish Golden Age led by Agustín Redondo. From 2000 to 2015 she was member of the group of scholars led by Pierre-François Moreau: Centre d’études en rhétorique, philosophie et histoire des idées (Research Group on Rhetoric, Philosophy, and the History of Ideas) at the École normale supérieure de Lyon. She is an associate researcher at the École nationale des chartes at the \"Centre Jean Mabillon\" led by Olivier Poncet.\n\nFrom 1988 to 2005 she taught at the \"Institut de sciences et théologie des religions\" (Institute of Sciences and the Theology of Religions) at the Institut Catholique de Paris (Catholic University of Paris). Beginning in 1998, she taught comparative history of cultures and religions in the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at the École polytechnique. From 2002 to 2008 she taught the ethics and management of sustainable development at the École des hautes études commerciales de Paris (HEC, European Business School). She also taught courses in the economics of the three monotheisms at the Université de Paris Dauphine.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2015 she taught the seminar \"Humanisms, mystics, cosmologies : literature, painting, cinema\" at the Institut national d'histoire de l'art (National Institute for Art History) as part of the program at the \"Centre de recherche sur les arts et le langage\" (Center for Research on Arts and Language) at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (School for Advanced Studies in Social Sciences) and as part of the program at the \"Centre des études cinématographiques\" (Center of Cinema Studies) at the .\n\nShe has organized a long list of symposiums in France and abroad, and she also curated several art exhibitions.\n\nSince 2015 she has been a member of the research group \"Théta-Théorie et histoire de l’esthétique, du technique et des arts\" (Théta-Theory and History of Aesthetics, Technique, and the Arts), led by Pierre Caye, at the École normale supérieure-Paris (PSL).\n\nIn 2015 her research project \"La Raison du merveilleux à la Renaissance et dans la première modernité\" (The Reason of the Marvellous in the Renaissance and the Early Modern Period) obtained an award from the \"Paris Sciences Lettres Research University\" PSL/ École normale supérieure-Paris.\n\nFollowing her studies in history, art history, philology and philosophy, as well as in literature and theology, Dominique de Courcelles completed several initial research projects, including: \"Les ex-voto marins du Roussillon\" (The Marine \"Ex-Votos\" of Roussillon) (Master in History), directed by Michel Mollat du Jourdin; a study of the enlightened manuscripts of the \"Roman de la Rose\" in European libraries (Master of Advanced Studies in Art History), directed by Jacques Thirion and Marie-Madeleine Gauthier; \"La parole risquée de Raymond Lulle entre le christianisme, le judaïsme et l’islam\" (Ramon Llull's Audacious Word: between Christianity, Judaism, and Islam) (Master in Theology), directed by Jean Greisch; \"Les goigs de Catalogne : entre le corps, l’image et la voix\" (Catalan \"goigs\": between Body, Image, and Voice) (doctoral dissertation), directed by Louis Marin.\n\nHer research works deal essentially with the Hispanic world : Catalonia, Valencian Country, Balearic Islands (mainly Ramon Llull, but also Ausiàs March, Bernat Metge, Joan Martorell, Tirant lo Blanch, and so on) ; Spain in the Renaissance and its Golden Age (Teresa of Ávila, John of the Cross, Pedro Mexía, Miguel de Cervantes, and so on) ; New Spain (Mexico) (Bernal Díaz del Castillo, Bernardino de Sahagún, Antonio de Saavedra y Guzmán, Remedios Varo, and so on). \nHer publications deal also with authors such as Marguerite Porete, Hadewijch, and so on, but also saint Augustine, Nicholas of Cusa, Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa, Paracelsus, Michel de Montaigne, la Mère Angélique de Port-Royal, and so on.\n\nHer researches have two main directions : 1) Mysticism regarding philosophy and literary and artistic creation, during the end of the Middle Ages and the first modern times, and also in the present world. 2) Interpretation of the four elements in literature, architecture, painting and cinema.\n\nHer research has two main directions: 1) mysticism as it involves philosophy and literary and artistic creation from the end of the Middle Ages through the early modern period as well as in the present; and 2) the interpretation of the classical elements (the \"four elements\") in literature, architecture, painting, and cinema.\n\nDominique de Courcelles has completed several research projects on contemporary issues. In 2009 she wrote and directed \"Entre le Feu et l’Eau\" (Between Fire and Water), a film that deals with the four elements and the water supply in the megalopolis Mexico City. This film was shown in New York on June 5, 2009 during the UN's Day for the Environment. \nThe film has also been shown across the globe on all continents, including at the 2010 Shanghai Universal Exhibition. From 2009 to 2015 Dominique de Courcelles served as a member of the board of the \"Ateliers de la Terre\" (Planetworkshops). This association ceased to exist in 2015. In January, 2014, in the \"Fondation Singer-Polignac\" (Singer-Polignac Foundation), she was Director of the international colloquium \"Actes pour une économie juste\" (Acts for a Fair Economy). She is member of the \"Unesco Chair of Intercultural Dialogue in the Mediterranean]], Rovira i Virgili University (Tarragona, Spain).\n\nDominique de Courcelles supervises many doctorate theses in the history of ideas (philosophy, economy, art, religion) that study historical and contemporary sources, both at the ENS (Ulm) and at the ENS (Lyon). Since 1994, she teaches the doctoral seminar \"Cultural Transfers\" (approximately six sessions per year).\n\nDominique de Courcelles is invited every year to foreign universities and research centers in Europa, Latin America, USA, etc. She is an elected member of the \"Hispanic-American Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Letters\" in Mexico City, Mexico. In 2003 she taught in the \"Marcel Bataillon Seminar\" of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM), Mexico City. She has been elected a member of both the \"Reial Acadèmia de Bones Lletres\" of Barcelona, Spain and the Institut d'Estudis Catalans (Institute of Catalan Studies) (Historical and philological sciences and liturgical sciences) of Barcelona. In 2004 she was selected to be a member of the Collège international de philosophie (International College of Philosophy) in Paris. In 2013 she received the \"Serra d'Or Critics Prize\" for her work on Ramon Llull.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50660008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50660008", "title": "Edward Impey", "text": "Edward Impey\n\nEdward Alexander Impey, (born 28 May 1962) is a British historian, archaeologist, and museum curator. Since October 2013, he has been Master of the Armouries and Director General of the Royal Armouries.\n\nImpey was born on 28 May 1962 to Oliver Impey and Jane Impey (\"née\" Mellanby). His father was a zoologist by training who became specialist in Japanese art, and his mother is a neuroscientist. He grew up in the City of Oxford where he father was a curator at the Ashmolean Museum. He was educated at the Dragon School, a preparatory school in Oxford, and at Bedales School, an independent school near Petersfield, Hampshire.\n\nImpey has degrees in history and archaeology. He studied at Oriel College, Oxford, graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree and a Master of Philosophy (MPhil) degree. At Oxford, the BA is promoted to a Master of Arts (MA Oxon) degree a number of years after graduating, and an MPhil is a two-year taught master's degree. He remained at the University of Oxford to undertake postgraduate research, and completed his Doctor of Philosophy (DPhil) degree in 1991. His doctoral thesis was titled \" The origins and development of non-conventual monastic dependencies in England and Normandy 1000–1350\".\n\nImpey worked as a curator at Historic Royal Palaces and served as Director of Heritage Protection and Planning at English Heritage. On 30 July 2013, he was announced as the next Master of the Armouries and Director General of the Royal Armouries. He took up the appointments in October 2013 in succession to Lieutenant-General Jonathon Riley. Along with John Goodall, Impey is a patron of the Castle Studies Trust, a UK registered charity.\n\nIn 2008, Impey married Karen Lundgren. together, they have two daughters.\n\nOn 2 May 1996, Impey was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London (FSA). In 2011, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "39216297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216297", "title": "Edward de Grazia", "text": "Edward de Grazia\n\nEdward Richard de Grazia (February 5, 1927 – April 11, 2013) was an American lawyer, writer, and free speech activist.\n\nDe Grazia was born in Chicago. He served in the U.S. Army during World War II, before returning to the United States. He graduated from the University of Chicago with a Bachelor's in 1948, and earned his law degree from the University of Chicago in 1951. He practiced law in Washington, D.C., and then worked for a time with UNESCO in Paris (1956 to 1959). After teaching at a variety of Washington, D.C., area law schools, in 1976 he became a founding member of the faculty at Benjamin Cardozo School of Law, where he remained for the next three decades.\n\nDe Grazia was married three times, to Ellen O'Connor, Liz Goode, and Lora Price. He had several children, including Augustus de Grazia (died 2011), David de Grazia, Christophe de Grazia, Belinda de Grazia Holtzclaw, and Elizabeth de Grazia Blumenfeld.\n\nDe Grazia was involved in numerous high-profile cases of literary and artistic censorship in the 1960s, including several on behalf of the publisher Barney Rosset, who published works by Henry Miller and William Burroughs, among others. De Grazia was also involved in efforts to protect the speech rights of antiwar demonstrators, as described by Norman Mailer in \"Armies of the Night\" (1968). In 1991 he published \"Girls Lean Back Everywhere: The Law of Obscenity and the Assault on Genius,\" a lengthy and authoritative history of the struggle against literary censorship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1429832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429832", "title": "Egon Friedell", "text": "Egon Friedell\n\nEgon Friedell (born \"Egon Friedmann\"; 21 January 1878, in Vienna; died 16 March 1938, in Vienna) was a prominent Austrian philosopher, historian, journalist, actor, cabaret performer \"(Kabarettist)\" and theatre critic. Friedell has been described as a polymath.\n\nFriedell was the third child of a Jewish silk manufacturer, Moriz Friedmann, and his wife, Karoline (née Eisenberger). After his parents divorced in 1887, Friedell lived with his father. After his father's death in 1891, Friedell lived with his aunt in Frankfurt am Main, where he would attend school, until he was expelled for unruly behaviour two years later. Even at this young age, Friedell was considered a trouble maker and free thinker. He attended several schools in Austria and Germany, until he finally passed his Abitur (exit examination) after four attempts, in Bad Hersfeld in 1899.\n\nIn 1898, prior to his graduation, Friedell had enrolled as a guest student at Berlin University, studying German literature, natural sciences and philosophy. It was during this time, that Friedell renounced Judaism and converted to the Lutheran faith. After graduation, he enrolled in Heidelberg University to study under the philosophy historian and follower of Hegel, Kuno Fischer. In 1899, he accepted his inheritance enabling him to live financially independently in Vienna.\n\nFrom 1900 to 1904, Egon Friedell studied German literature and philosophy in Vienna, at the University of Heidelberg. In 1904, he received his PhD for his dissertation; \"Novalis als Philosoph\". In 1905, he published the article \"Prejudices\" in Karl Kraus's journal \"Fackel\", which included the following statement:\n\nFrom 1905 to 1910 Friedell worked as the artistic director of the Vienna cabaret \"Fledermaus\", named after the Johann Strauss operetta. During this time, Friedell continued to publish essays and one-act plays. His first literary effort was \"The Paraffin King\". The sketch comedy \"Goethe\" (written in collaboration with Alfred Polgar) in which he also played the leading role, made him famous in German speaking countries.\n\nIn 1910, Friedell was commissioned by publisher Samuel Fischer to write a biography of poet Peter Altenberg. Fischer, who had expected something light, was unsatisfied with Friedell's analysis and critique of culture titled \"Ecce poeta\", and the book was not promoted in any way. Hence, the book was a commercial failure, but served to mark the beginning of Friedell's interest in cultural history.\n\nIn 1912, Friedell was performing in cabarets in Berlin, and in 1913 worked as an actor for director Max Reinhardt. In Vienna, Friedell worked as the codirector of Intimes Theater. Friedell also continued writing, and developed friendships with nearly all of the major German authors of the period. In 1914, suffering from alcoholism and obesity, Friedell was forced to undergo treatment at a sanatorium near Munich. Friedell was enthusiastic about the beginning of World War I, as were many of his contemporaries, and volunteered for military service but was rejected for physical reasons.\n\nIn 1916, he officially changed his name to \"Friedell\". (He had used \"Friedländer\" as a pen name for several of his publications, but had not used his family name \"Friedmann\" since his student days.) Friedell published the \"Judas Tragedy\" in 1916, and in 1922 published \"Quarry — Miscellaneous Opinions and Quotations\". In 1924, while working as a critic for the journal \"Stunde\", Friedell was fired as a \"traitor\", for making satirical remarks.\n\nBetween 1919 and 1924, Friedell worked as a journalist and theatre critic for various publishers including the \"Neues Wiener Journal\". He also worked as a dramatic advisor, theatre director and actor for director Max Reinhardt at the Deutsches Theater in Berlin and the Burgtheater in Vienna.\n\nIn addition Friedell's film and literary criticism continued to be published in magazines and newspapers, such as Schaubühne, Fackel, and Neuen Wiener Journal. After 1927, health problems prevented any permanent commissions, and he worked as an independent essayist, editor and translator in Vienna. Among the authors Friedell translated were Emerson, Hebbel, Lichtenberg, Carlyle, Hans Christian Andersen, Johann Nestroy, and Macaulay.\n\nAlso during the early 1920s, Friedell wrote the three volumes of his \"Cultural History of the Modern Age\", which describes events from the Renaissance to the age of imperialism in an anecdotal format. For instance, Friedell writes; \"All the classifications man has ever devised are arbitrary, artificial, and false, but simple reflection also shows that such classifications are useful, indispensable, and above all unavoidable since they accord with an innate aspect of our thinking.\" In 1925, publisher Hermann Ullstein received the first volume, but was suspicious of the historiography of an actor. Five other publishers subsequently rejected the book. It was finally published by Heinrich Beck in Munich in 1927. The book proved very successful and allowed Friedell to continue his work as an author and has been translated into seven languages.\n\nIn 1933, when the Nazis came to power in Germany, Friedell described the regime as: \n\nFriedell summed up the Congress of Vienna as:\n\nIn 1937, Friedell's works were banned by the National Socialist regime as they did not conform to the theory of history promoted by the NSDAP, and all German and Austrian publishers refused to publish his works. The first volume of Friedell's \"A Cultural History of Antiquity\", which he failed to complete, was published by Helikon in Zurich.\n\nOn the occasion of the Anschluss of Austria, anti-semitism was rampant: Jewish men and women were being beaten in the streets and their businesses and synagogues ransacked or destroyed. Friedell, knowing that he could be arrested by the Gestapo, began to contemplate ending his own life. Friedell told his close friend, Ödön von Horváth, in a letter written on 11 March: \"I am always ready to leave, in every sense.\"\n\nOn 16 March 1938, at about 22:00, two SA men arrived at Friedell's house to arrest him. While they were still arguing with his housekeeper, Friedell committed suicide by jumping out of the window. Before leaping, he warned pedestrians walking on the sideway where he hit by shouting \"Watch out! Get out of the way!\"\n\nFriedell, of whom Hilde Spiel said \"in him, the exhilarating fiction of the homo universalis rose once again\", was interred in the Zentralfriedhof cemetery in Vienna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "888207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=888207", "title": "Etymology", "text": "Etymology\n\nEtymology () is the study of the history of words, their origins, and how their form and meaning have changed over time. By extension, the term \"the etymology (of a word)\" means the origin of the particular word. When talking about place names, there is a specific term, toponymy.\n\nFor a language—such as Greek—with a long written history, etymologists make use of texts in these languages and texts about the languages to gather knowledge about how words were used during earlier periods of their history and when they entered the languages in question. Etymologists also apply the methods of comparative linguistics to reconstruct information about languages that are too old for any direct information to be available.\n\nBy analyzing related languages with a technique known as the comparative method, linguists can make inferences about their shared parent language and its vocabulary. In this way, word roots have been found that can be traced all the way back to the origin of, for instance, the Indo-European language family.\n\nEven though etymological research originally grew from the philological tradition, much current etymological research is done on language families where little or no early documentation is available, such as Uralic and Austronesian.\n\nThe word \"etymology\" derives from the Greek word (), itself from (), meaning \"true sense\", and the suffix \"-logia\", denoting \"the study of\". \n\nIn linguistics, the term \"etymon\" refers to a word or morpheme (e.g., stem or root) from which a later word derives. For example, the Latin word \"candidus\", which means \"white\", is the etymon of English \"candid\".\n\nEtymologists apply a number of methods to study the origins of words, some of which are:\n\n\nEtymological theory recognizes that words originate through a limited number of basic mechanisms, the most important of which are language change, borrowing (i.e., the adoption of \"loanwords\" from other languages); word formation such as derivation and compounding; and onomatopoeia and sound symbolism, (i.e., the creation of imitative words such as \"click\" or \"grunt\").\n\nWhile the origin of newly emerged words is often more or less transparent, it tends to become obscured through time due to sound change or semantic change. Due to sound change, it is not readily obvious that the English word \"set\" is related to the word \"sit\" (the former is originally a causative formation of the latter). It is even less obvious that \"bless\" is related to \"blood\" (the former was originally a derivative with the meaning \"to mark with blood\").\n\nSemantic change may also occur. For example, the English word \"bead\" originally meant \"prayer\". It acquired its modern meaning through the practice of counting the recitation of prayers by using beads.\n\nEnglish derives from Old English (sometimes referred to as Anglo-Saxon), a West Germanic variety, although its current vocabulary includes words from many languages. The Old English roots may be seen in the similarity of numbers in English and German, particularly \"seven/sieben,\" \"eight/acht,\" \"nine/neun,\" and \"ten/zehn.\" Pronouns are also cognate: \"I/mine/me and ich/mein/mich\"; \"thou/thine/thee and du/dein/dich\"; \"we/wir and us/uns\"; \"she/sie; your/ihr.\nHowever, language change has eroded many grammatical elements, such as the noun case system, which is greatly simplified in modern English, and certain elements of vocabulary, some of which are borrowed from French. Although many of the words in the English lexicon come from Romance languages, most of the common words used in English are of Germanic origin.\n\nWhen the Normans conquered England in 1066 (see Norman Conquest), they brought their Norman language with them. During the Anglo-Norman period, which united insular and continental territories, the ruling class spoke Anglo-Norman, while the peasants spoke the vernacular English of the time. Anglo-Norman was the conduit for the introduction of French into England, aided by the circulation of Langue d'oïl literature from France.\n\nThis led to many paired words of French and English origin. For example, \"beef\" is related, through borrowing, to modern French \"bœuf,\" \"veal\" to \",\" \"pork\" to \",\" and \"poultry\" to \".\" All these words, French and English, refer to the meat rather than to the animal. Words that refer to farm animals, on the other hand, tend to be cognates of words in other Germanic languages. For example, \"swine/Schwein,\" \"cow/Kuh,\" \"calf/Kalb,\" and \"sheep/Schaf.\" The variant usage has been explained by the proposition that it was the Norman rulers who mostly ate meat (an expensive commodity) and the Anglo-Saxons who farmed the animals. This explanation has passed into common folklore but has been disputed.\n\nEnglish has proved accommodating to words from many languages. Scientific terminology, for example, relies heavily on words of Latin and Greek origin, but there are a great many non-scientific examples. Spanish has contributed many words, particularly in the southwestern United States. Examples include , , , , and states' names such as and . , , , , and from Portuguese; and \"prima donna\" from Italian. Modern French has contributed , , , and many more. \n\n, , and are from Swedish, Norwegian and Danish; from Finnish; , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and from Arabic (often via other languages); , , , , and from Hebrew; , , , and from Russian. \n\n, , , , , and come from Urdu, Hindi and ultimately Sanskrit; from Tamil; , , and from Japanese; , , , and from Cantonese. and are from Malay; and \"boondocks\" from the Tagalog word for hills or mountains, . derives from one or more South-East Asia and East Indies words for fish sauce or soy sauce, likely by way of Chinese, though the precise path is unclear: Malay , Indonesian , Chinese Min Nan \"kê-chiap\" and cognates in other Chinese dialects.\n\nSurprisingly few loanwords, however, come from other languages native to the British Isles. Those that exist include , and (probably) , and from Welsh; and from Scottish Gaelic; , , and from Irish; and and from Scots (or related Northern English dialects).\n\nMany Canadian English and American English words (especially but not exclusively plant and animal names) are loanwords from Indigenous American languages, such as , , , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\nThe search for meaningful origins for familiar or strange words is far older than the modern understanding of linguistic evolution and the relationships of languages, which began no earlier than the 18th century. From Antiquity through the 17th century, from to Pindar to Sir Thomas Browne, etymology had been a form of witty wordplay, in which the supposed origins of words were creatively imagined to satisfy contemporary requirements; for example, the Greek poet Pindar (born in approximately 522 BCE) employed inventive etymologies to flatter his patrons. Plutarch employed etymologies insecurely based on fancied resemblances in sounds. Isidore of Seville's \"Etymologiae\" was an encyclopedic tracing of \"first things\" that remained uncritically in use in Europe until the sixteenth century. \"Etymologicum genuinum\" is a grammatical encyclopedia edited at Constantinople in the ninth century, one of several similar Byzantine works. The thirteenth-century \"Legenda Aurea,\" as written by Jacobus de Vorgagine, begins each \"vita\" of a saint with a fanciful excursus in the form of an etymology.\n\nThe Sanskrit linguists and grammarians of ancient India were the first to make a comprehensive analysis of linguistics and etymology. The study of Sanskrit etymology has provided Western scholars with the basis of historical linguistics and modern etymology. Four of the most famous Sanskrit linguists are:\n\n\nThese linguists were not the earliest Sanskrit grammarians, however. They followed a line of ancient grammarians of Sanskrit who lived several centuries earlier like Sakatayana of whom very little is known. The earliest of attested etymologies can be found in Vedic literature in the philosophical explanations of the \"Brahmanas\", \"Aranyakas,\" and \"Upanishads\".\n\nThe analyses of Sanskrit grammar done by the previously mentioned linguists involved extensive studies on the etymology (called \"Nirukta\" or \"Vyutpatti\" in Sanskrit) of Sanskrit words, because the ancient Indo-Aryans considered sound and speech itself to be sacred and, for them, the words of the sacred \"Vedas\" contained deep encoding of the mysteries of the soul and God.\n\nOne of the earliest philosophical texts of the Classical Greek period to address etymology was the Socratic dialogue \"Cratylus\" (c. 360 BCE) by Plato. During much of the dialogue, Socrates makes guesses as to the origins of many words, including the names of the gods. In his Odes Pindar spins complimentary etymologies to flatter his patrons. Plutarch (\"Life of Numa Pompilius\") spins an etymology for \"pontifex\", while explicitly dismissing the obvious, and actual \"bridge-builder\":\n\nIsidore of Seville compiled a volume of etymologies to illuminate the triumph of religion. Each saint's legend in Jacob de Voragine's \"Legenda Aurea\" begins with an etymological discourse on the saint's name:\n\nEtymology in the modern sense emerged in the late 18th-century European academia, within the context of the wider \"Age of Enlightenment,\" although preceded by 17th century pioneers such as Marcus Zuerius van Boxhorn, Gerardus Vossius, Stephen Skinner, Elisha Coles, and William Wotton. The first known systematic attempt to prove the relationship between two languages on the basis of similarity of grammar and lexicon was made in 1770 by the Hungarian, János Sajnovics, when he attempted to demonstrate the relationship between Sami and Hungarian (work that was later extended to the whole Finno-Ugric language family in 1799 by his fellow countryman, Samuel Gyarmathi).\n\nThe origin of modern historical linguistics is often traced to Sir William Jones, a Welsh philologist living in India, who in 1782 observed the genetic relationship between Sanskrit, Greek and Latin. Jones published his \"The Sanscrit Language\" in 1786, laying the foundation for the field of Indo-European linguistics.\n\nThe study of etymology in Germanic philology was introduced by Rasmus Christian Rask in the early 19th century and elevated to a high standard with the \"German Dictionary\" of the Brothers Grimm. The successes of the comparative approach culminated in the Neogrammarian school of the late 19th century. Still in the 19th century, German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche used etymological strategies (principally and most famously in \"On the Genealogy of Morals,\" but also elsewhere) to argue that moral values have definite historical (specifically, cultural) origins where modulations in meaning regarding certain concepts (such as \"good\" and \"evil\") show how these ideas had changed over time—according to which value-system appropriated them. This strategy gained popularity in the 20th century, and philosophers, such as Jacques Derrida, have used etymologies to indicate former meanings of words to de-center the \"violent hierarchies\" of Western philosophy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4839541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4839541", "title": "Forces sweetheart", "text": "Forces sweetheart\n\nForces Sweetheart (or Forces' Sweetheart) is a title given to some entertainers in the British Armed Forces, mainly through the Entertainments National Service Association, although the term was also later used in the United States and other countries including Australia\nThe role had its origins in World War I. Lady Angela Forbes, (1876-1950), was the Forces Sweetheart at camp and a wartime catering organiser for the British army from November 1914. The British Soldiers' Buffets, commonly known as Angelinas, met every train of wounded as it arrived and were often open 24 hours a day, and food never ran out. Following her, Elsie Janis was called The Sweetheart of the AEF.\n\nSweethearts during World War II included Vera Lynn (now Dame Vera Lynn), whose singing (\"(There'll Be Bluebirds Over) The White Cliffs of Dover\" and \"We'll Meet Again\") brought great happiness to many in Britain; Gracie Fields; and Anne Shelton.\n\nFrances Langford, whose husband was assistant secretary of the United States Air Force under president Harry Truman, was \"Singing Sweetheart of the Fighting Fronts\" from World War II to the Korean War and the Vietnam War.\n\nPresent-day sweethearts for the British forces include Nell McAndrew, Katherine Jenkins and Cheryl Cole. In 2011, London drag queen Richard Rhodes became the first man to be awarded the title.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7253011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7253011", "title": "Frans Blom", "text": "Frans Blom\n\nFrans Blom (Frants Ferdinand Blom; August 9, 1893, Copenhagen – June 23, 1963, San Cristóbal de Las Casas, Chiapas, Mexico) was a Danish explorer and archaeologist.\n\nFrans Blom was born in 1893 in Copenhagen, Denmark to a middle-class family of antique merchants. He was restless and started travelling, eventually reaching Mexico in 1919, where he found work in the oil industry as a paymaster. Travelling to remote locations in the Mexican jungle, he became interested in the Maya ruins which he encountered where he was working. He started drawing and documenting these ruins. After he showed his work to the Mexican National Museum of Anthropology, it financed some of his expeditions. He met Sylvanus G. Morley, who brought him to Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Here he took a master's degree in Archeology.\n\nHe taught at Tulane University in New Orleans and during his tenure, he undertook several expeditions to Mesoamerica. In 1923 his studies at Palenque documented a number of features neglected by earlier researchers. In 1924 Blom excavated the Maya archaeological site of Uaxactun in Guatemala. From his explorations around the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, he wrote some of the first scholarly reports of a number of sites of the Olmec civilization. In 1926 he was made head of Tulane's newly established Department of Middle American Research.\n\nIn 1932 he was married to the American Mary Thomas, but six years later they were divorced. Blom acquired an alcohol habit which later forced him to retire from the university. Blom moved to Mexico, where he met the Swiss photographer Gertrude “Trudi” Duby (1901–1993), whom he married.\n\nIn 1950, the Bloms bought a large house in San Cristóbal de las Casas. This house was dubbed \"Casa Na Bolom\" - \"na\" meaning \"house\" in the Lacandon Maya language, and \"bolom\" (or \"b'alum\" in some Mayan languages) means \"jaguar\", and is also a pun on Blom's name (since \"Bolom\" or similar variations was still a fairly common Maya family name, some of the Maya assumed it to be Blom's name.) The Bloms turned the house into a cultural and scientific center with rooms for visitors, with Gertrude continuing the enterprise for decades after Frans’ death. The house today functions as a museum.\n\nThe Bloms continued undertaking expeditions for the Mexican government. Blom died in 1963, at age 70.\n\n\n\nOver a hundred images of Uxmal from the 1930 Blom-Tulane expedition. http://academic.reed.edu/uxmal/galleries/thumbnails/drawings/Drawings-Leyrer-Blom.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "3585702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585702", "title": "Giovanni Domenico Mansi", "text": "Giovanni Domenico Mansi\n\nGian (Giovanni) Domenico Mansi (16 February 1692 – 27 September 1769) was an Italian prelate, theologian, scholar and historian, known for his massive works on the Church councils.\n\nHe was born at Lucca, of a patrician family, and died archbishop of that city. At the age of sixteen he entered the Congregation of Clerics Regular of the Mother of God and made his profession in 1710. Except for some journeys made for purposes of study, his whole life, until his appointment as Archbishop of Lucca (1765), was spent in his religious home.\n\nIn 1758, after a sojourn at Rome, where he had been received by Cardinal Passionei, there was question of elevating him to the Sacred College, but his collaboration in an annotated edition of the famous \"Encyclopédie\" displeased Clement XIII. It should be remarked that the notes in this edition were intended to correct the text. Three years after his elevation to the episcopate he was smitten with an attack of apoplexy which left him suffering, deprived of the power of motion, until his death.\n\nHis long career was filled chiefly with the re-editing of erudite ecclesiastical works with notes and complementary matter. His name appears on the title-pages of ninety folio volumes and numerous quartos. An indefatigable worker, widely read and thoroughly trained, his output was chiefly of a mechanical order, and unoriginal because hurried. His task was most often limited to inserting notes and documents in the work to be reproduced and sending the whole result to the printer, a process which resulted in numberless shortcomings.\n\nThe only work worth mentioning that is all Mansi's own is his \"Tractatus de casibus et censuris reservatis\", published in 1724, which brought him into difficulties with the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\". The rest are all annotated editions. In 1726 there was \"Jo. Burch. Menckenii De Charlataneria eruditorum declamationes duae cum notis variorum\"; from 1725 to 1738, an annotated Latin translation of the three works of Dom Calmet—the \"Dictionnaire de la Bible\", \"Prolégomènes et Dissertations\", and \"Commentaire littéral\".\n\nThe best-known publication of Mansi is his vast edition of the Councils, \"Sacrorum Conciliorum nova et amplissima collectio\" (31 vols., folio, Florence and Venice, 1758–98), which was stopped by lack of resources in the middle of the Council of Florence of 1438. The absence of an index renders it inconvenient, and in a critical point of view it leaves an immensity to be desired. Mansi saw only fourteen volumes of it published, the others were finished from his notes.\n\nIn 1748 he began to publish the first volume of a collection which was presented as a supplement to that of Coleti; the sixth and last volume of it appeared in 1752. The collection has been reprinted: in Paris by H. Welter, (1901-1927); and in Graz by the Akademische Druck- und Verlagsanstalt in 1960. The 1901 edition has been digitized by the University of Michigan Law Library.\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "42536551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42536551", "title": "Gregory White Smith", "text": "Gregory White Smith\n\nGregory White Smith (October 4, 1951 – April 10, 2014) was an American biographer of both Jackson Pollock and Vincent van Gogh. In addition to writing 18 books with Steven Naifeh, Smith was an accomplished musician, historic preservationist, art collector, philanthropist, attorney, and businessman who founded several companies including Best Lawyers, which spawned an entire industry of professional rankings.\n\nHis brain tumor, which was diagnosed in 1975, led to 13 brain surgeries as well as radiation and nuclear medicine treatments and experimental chemotherapeutic regimens. His search for cutting-edge medical care was profiled on CBS's \"60 Minutes\" and recounted in his book \"Making Miracles Happen\".\n\n\"\" was published in 1990, winning the 1991 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography. \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" called the book \"Brilliant and definitive … so absorbing in its narrative drive and so exhaustively detailed that it makes everything that came before seem like trial balloons.\"\n\"Van Gogh: The Life\", which Michiko Kakutani of \"The New York Times\" called \"magisterial,\" was published in 2011 with a companion website hosting over 6,000 pages of notes. The book stirred global controversy by debunking the widely accepted theory that Van Gogh committed suicide and arguing instead that village bullies shot him.\n\n\"As a tale of ambition, hard-fought fleeting triumphs and dark despair,\" said the \"San Francisco Gate\", \"it has the dramatic pull of a gripping nineteenth-century novel. … [The] biography enriches the eye. Its insight and vast information vault readers into the work of Van Gogh and the artists of his time. It deepens the experience of looking at art.\" \"A tour de force,\" said the \"Los Angeles Times\", a \"sweepingly authoritative, astonishingly textured book.\"\n\nSmith was born in Ithaca, New York on October 4, 1951, and was raised in Columbus, Ohio, where he attended the Columbus Academy. \"Walking to school beginning at an early age,\" Naifeh said, \"he would think of a sentence. Then, talking out loud, as he did for the rest of his life, he would try different ways to articulate the same thought, clarifying the idea and giving the words more character and force. It was the beginning of a lifelong love of and gift for words.\" \"Also at age eight, Smith began dictating short novels into a Dictaphone his father used in business, which his mother transcribed. 'They were only 25 or 30 pages long,' Smith said, 'and the work of a child. But I was so thrilled that my mother typed them. There was my name at the top of the first page, 'By Gregory White Smith.'\"\n\n\"As editor of his high school newspaper, he once wrote an editorial about the French experience in Vietnam and its lessons for the United States. When the headmaster burned all of the copies of the paper, Smith called on the headmaster to resign. 'Greg was already showing his fiercely combative spirit,' Naifeh said, 'the same spirit that would get him through a lifelong battle against a terrible disease and unending pain.'\" \n\nHe graduated from Colby College in 1973, spent a year studying music in Europe on a Watson Fellowship, and then enrolled at the Harvard Law School. He graduated from the Law School in 1977, and received a master's degree in education, also from Harvard, in 1978.\n\nSmith was a singer and choral conductor. He founded the Colby Eight in 1972 and served as assistant conductor of the Harvard Glee Club, where he helped prepare choruses for such conductors as Leonard Bernstein, Seiji Ozawa, and Mstislav Rostropovich, from 1974 to 1979.\n\nSmith received honorary doctorates from the University of South Carolina Aiken in 1998, the Juilliard School in 2012, and Colby College in 2013.\n\nIn 1989, along with his partner Naifeh, he purchased the Joye Cottage in Aiken, South Carolina. Together, they restored the historic Whitney-Vanderbilt house, a creation of both Stanford White and Carrère and Hastings. The story of that renovation is told in their book, \"On a Street Called Easy, In a Cottage Called Joye\", which \"The New York Times\" called \"wry and gentle … house-and-garden renovations gone delectably awry.\" They are leaving the house to be a residence for artists in music, drama, and dance.\n\nIn 2009, with Sandra Field, Smith co-founded the Juilliard in Aiken Festival, a performing arts festival that brings dozens of artists to Aiken each year for performances and has provided educational outreach to more than 16,000 students in an area covering parts of Georgia and South Carolina. The year Smith died, the Festival culminated in an early-music performance of Bach's St. Matthew Passion that was presented not only in Aiken but in Spivey Hall in Atlanta and Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center. James R. Oestreich wrote in \"The New York Times\" that the performance contained \"flashes of brilliance, all right. But what made the event so deeply satisfying was mainly the consistent excellence of all its parts.\"\n\nIn 1975, a few months after beginning Harvard Law School, Smith began experiencing unexplained skeletal pain. After six months of clinical investigation, he was diagnosed with a hemangiopericytoma, a tumor so rare it landed him on the cover of the \"New England Journal of Medicine\". Uncertain that he could survive the disease – in 1987, he was given three months to live – Smith, together with Naifeh, spent the rest of his life finding doctors around the world who could perform operations or improvise treatments to keep him alive long enough for the next lifesaving treatment to emerge.\n\nSmith's survival was featured on a segment of CBS's \"60 Minutes\" in 1997. He was asked by Morley Safer, \"Everyone must ask the question when given what appears to be a death sentence, 'Why me?'\"\nSmith answered, \"I've been very, very lucky in my life. I had a great family – have a great family. I have Steve. I've been endowed with some talents. I've had a chance to write a book that I'm very proud of. I have great friends. And never once in all those things, I never once said, 'Why?' So how can I demand from the universe some sort of rationale for the bad that I've never demanded for the good?\"\n\nSmith married Steven Naifeh, his co-author and partner of 40 years, in 2011.\n\n\"It took enormous grit and determination to stage this heroic ongoing battle against his brain tumor,\" Naifeh said to the \"Aiken Standard\". \"Yet, it never robbed him of his passion for life. Or his sweetness. He was so unassuming about his intellectual gifts, so guileless, that he had an extraordinary capacity to help people understand how special they were in their own ways.\"\n\nSmith worked as an associate attorney at the law firm of Morrison & Foerster and as an editor at the \"Free Press\", where he published the \"Encyclopedia of Crime and Justice\" in 1983.\n\nHe was the author, all with Naifeh, of many books including five \"New York Times\" bestsellers.\n\nHe published \"Jackson Pollock: An American Saga\" in 1990, which won the 1991 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography and was also a finalist for the National Book Award.\n\n\"Interview Magazine\" said of the book, \"For once, with this intense, engrossing, and indeed brilliant work, we have a biography that justifies its length. Seldom have the history of an artist, the development of his imagination, and the fevers of his soul been more grandly yet intimately described.\"\n\nThe book was adapted into an Academy Award-winning film by Ed Harris in 2000, Pollock (film). Harris said the biography was \"the bible for the project and remained so until filming was completed.\" The biography also served as an inspiration for John Updike's \"Seek My Face\". \"It would be in vain,\" Updike wrote, \"to deny that a large number of details come from the admirable, exhaustive 'Jackson Pollock: An American Saga.'\"\n\nSmith also wrote \"Van Gogh: The Life\", which was called \"the definitive work for decades to come\" by Leo Jansen of the Van Gogh Museum, in 2011.\n\n\"Time Magazine\" wrote: \"Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith, whose 1989 biography of Jackson Pollock won the Pulitzer Prize, have written this generation's definitive portrait of the great Dutch post-Impressionist. … Their most important achievement is to produce a reckoning with van Gogh's occasional 'madness' that doesn't lose sight of the lucidity and intelligence – the profound sanity – of his art.\" \"The Boston Globe\" wrote: \"Now, at last, with 'Van Gogh: The Life' by Steven Naifeh and Gregory White Smith, we have what could very well be the definitive biography … And how pleased we should be that Naifeh and Smith have rendered so exquisitely and respectfully van Gogh's short, intense, and wholly interesting life.\"\n\nIn addition to English, \"Van Gogh: The Life\" has been published in Dutch, German, French, Spanish, and Portuguese and is being translated into Italian, Polish, Russian, Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.\n\nSmith also wrote several how-to books to fund the writing of Pollock, including (with Michael Morgenstern), the best-seller \"How to Make Love to a Woman\", which sold several million copies in 29 languages.\nHe wrote several true crime books, including the bestseller \"The Mormon Murders\" in 1988 and \"Final Justice\" in 1993. The latter was nominated for the Edgar Allan Poe Award for Fact Crime.\n\nSmith's one book of humor, detailing the renovation of Joye Cottage, was well-received: \"Page after belly-ticking page,\" wrote \"The Washington Post\". \"Numerous adventures bordering on slapstick. … A delightful read.\"\n\nSmith also wrote two television series, one for PBS on the history of the Supreme Court with Archibald Cox and one for NBC on human behavior with Phil Donahue.\n\nTogether with Naifeh, Smith founded the legal publishing company Best Lawyers in 1981, which published \"The Best Lawyers in America\", a peer-review list, in 1983. That list went on to become Best Lawyers®, a global network linking lawyers and clients. In 2013, Best Lawyers ranked 74,965 lawyers representing 18,034 law firms in 75 countries. In 2009, the company partnered with U.S. News to produce rankings of law firms and in 2014 it gave out 61,138 rankings to 11,681 law firms in 120 practice areas.\n\nThe Best Lawyers list is widely respected in the legal profession. Kevin Maroney, Associate General Counsel of United Healthcare, has said, \"I always review Best Lawyers and rely on its recommendations.\" Bernd-Peter Bier, Senior Vice President of the Tax Division at Bayer AG, has said, \"I have used Best Lawyers to locate lawyers in an area of law that I do not have retained counsel. I find it to be a great resource.\" Kevin R. Hackett, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer of Rockefeller Group International, has said, \"Best Lawyers is the gold standard in selecting a lawyer.\"\n\nIn 1997, Smith told his story, as well as those of other patients conquering critical illnesses, in the book \"Making Miracles Happen\", which Phil Donahue called \"an inspiring gift to all of us who remain one cell away from the pathologies that would kill us … Greg Smith's relentless and successful effort to save his own life is a medical story for the twenty-first century.\" With Naifeh, he also founded Best Doctors, a company dedicated to helping others with undiagnosed or seemingly untreatable medical illnesses find the best medicine anywhere in the world. Although they sold the company in 2000, it continues to serve more than 30 million members worldwide.\n\nSmith died of a brain tumor in 2014 at the age of 62.\n\nHis brain tumor, which was diagnosed in 1975, led to 13 brain surgeries as well as radiation and nuclear medicine treatments and experimental chemotherapeutic regimens. His search for cutting-edge medical care was profiled on CBS's \"60 Minutes\" and recounted in his book \"Making Miracles Happen\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32293577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32293577", "title": "Gábor Vékony", "text": "Gábor Vékony\n\nGábor Vékony (December 15, 1944, Csengőd – June 10, 2004) was a Hungarian historian, archaeologist and linguist, associate professor at ELTE, Candidate of Sciences in History. He was an expert of the rovás scripts and a researcher of Hungarian prehistory.\n\nHe attended elementary school in Tabdi and secondary school in Kiskőrös. He graduated from the Eötvös Loránd University of Budapest (ELTE) with a degree in archaeology and history in 1968. He obtained his PhD in 1969. From 1968 he worked in the Kuny Domokos Museum in Tata. From 1970 until his death in 2004 he was an associate professor of the Department of Archaeology and the Department of Ancient History at ELTE.\n\nProf. Vékony deciphered several Rovas inscriptions, e.g. Szarvas inscription and Alsószentmihály inscription.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17821743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17821743", "title": "Heroic theory of invention and scientific development", "text": "Heroic theory of invention and scientific development\n\nThe heroic theory of invention and scientific development is the hypothesis that the principal authors of inventions and scientific discoveries are unique heroic individuals \"great scientists\" or \"geniuses.\" A competing hypothesis (\"multiple discovery\") is that most inventions and scientific discoveries are made independently and simultaneously by multiple inventors and scientists.\n\nThe multiple discovery hypothesis might be especially relevant in the development of mathematics since mathematical knowledge is highly unified and any advances that happen need to be built from previously established results through a process of deduction, as a general rule. For instance, the development of infinitesimal calculus into a systematic discipline did not occur until the development of analytic geometry, the former being credited to both Sir Isaac Newton and Gottfried Leibniz and the latter to both René Descartes and Pierre de Fermat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8455760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8455760", "title": "History of assassination", "text": "History of assassination\n\nAssassination, the murder of an opponent or well-known public figure, is one of the oldest tools of power struggles, as well as the expression of certain psychopathic disorders. It dates back to the earliest governments and tribal structures of the world.\n\nChanakya (c. 350–283 BC), an Indian teacher, philosopher and royal advisor, wrote about assassinations in detail in his political treatise \"Arthashastra\". His student Chandragupta Maurya, the founder of the Maurya Empire of India, later made use of assassinations against some of his enemies, including two of Alexander's generals Nicanor and Philip.\n\nTowards the end of the Warring States period (3rd century BC) in China, the state Qin rose to hegemony over other states. The Prince of the state Yan felt the threat and sought to remove the Qin king (later Qin Shi Huang) and sent Jing Ke for the mission. The assassination attempt was foiled and Jing Ke was killed on the spot.\n\nThe Old Testament story of Judith illustrates how a woman frees the Israelites by tricking and assassinating Holofernes, the war-leader of the enemy Assyrians with whom the Israelites were at war.\n\nPhilip II of Macedon, the father of Alexander the Great, can be viewed as a victim of assassination. It is a fact, however, that by the fall of the Roman Republic assassination had become a commonly-accepted tool towards the end not only of improving one's own position, but to influence policy—the killing of Gaius Julius Caesar being a notable example, though many Emperors met such an end. In whatever case, there seems to have not been a good deal of moral indignation at the practice amongst the political circles of the time, save, naturally, by the affected.\n\nSome of the most famous assassinations in history have taken place in the Roman Empire. Many of these assassinations were for political gain, like that of Gaius Julius Caesar.\n\nJulius Caesar was one of the three leaders of the First Triumvirate of the Roman Republic. After the other two members of the Triumvirate died, Julius Caesar became so popular he was proclaimed 'Dictator for Life', but the senate of the Roman Republic saw this as the end of the Republic, so, on the Ides of March (March 15) of 44 BC, the Roman Senate, including Marcus Junius Brutus the Younger who was a friend of Caesar went to the Senate, and when Caesar arrived, they stabbed him to death. When he was dying, Caesar is said to (in a play by Shakesphere) have looked at Brutus and say \"Et tu, Brute?\", or \"And you, Brutus?\". However, there is no record as to whether or not Caesar actually said these things. Soon after this, the Second Triumvirate was formed, ending in the collapse of the Roman Republic and the creation of the Roman Empire by Augustus Caesar.\n\nAnother Roman assassination was that of Caligula, the great-grandson of Augustus Caesar. He was overthrown by the military, had his head cut off, and was soon replaced by Claudius. There were many other, less important assassinations, and many more attempted assassinations, but none that had much meaning in the formation and history of the Roman Empire.\n\nOne of the earliest accounts of a historical assassination society were the Jewish sicarii in 6 A.D. during the Roman occupation of Israel. This group performed high-risk assassinations of Roman military individuals and other Jewish countrymen who have sided with them, with the use of daggers hidden in cloaks, sometimes performed in broad daylight before disappearing in the crowd. One of their most infamous assassination was that of Jonathan the High Priest.\n\nAs the Middle Ages came about from the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the moral and ethical dimensions of what was before a simple political tool began to take shape.\n\nAlthough in that period intentional regicide was an extremely rare occurrence, the situation changed dramatically with the Renaissance when the ideas of \"tyrannomachy\" (i.e. killing of a King when his rule becomes tyrannical) re-emerged and gained recognition. Several European monarchs and other leading figures were assassinated during religious wars or by religious opponents, for example Henry III and Henry IV of France, and the Protestant Dutch leader, William the Silent. There were also many unsuccessful assassination plots against rulers such as Elizabeth I of England by religious opponents. There were notable detractors, however; Abdülmecid of the Ottoman Empire refused to put to death plotters against his life during his reign.\n\nAssassinations also became part of the religious arena as well. For example, Thomas Becket was promoted to the position of Archbishop of Canterbury by King Henry II of England because Becket was part of the King's personal counsel and was also a major supporter of the King's claims on French land. Unfortunately, Becket did not like his new position and found support with the Pope Alexander III, so when Henry sought Becket's support for a lessened Papal grip on England, Becket refused and supported the Church and the Pope. Henry II didn't outright call for Thomas Becket's assassination after this point, but he is reported to have said, \"Will no one rid me of this turbulent priest?\" As a result, Becket was assassinated by four knights: Reginald Fitzurse, Hugh de Morville, Lord of Westmorland, William de Tracy, and Richard le Breton.\n\nThe Hashshashin, a Muslim group in the Middle Ages-Middle East, was well known for performing assassinations in the style of close combat. The word \"assassin\" was derived from the name of their group. In Feudal Japan, ninjas or shinobis were hired from both the aristocracy and the peasantry to spy on enemy factions, perform arsonism and disruptions, as well as infiltrating and assassinations.\n\nAs the world moved into the present day and the stakes in political clashes of will continued to grow to a global scale, the number of assassinations concurrently multiplied. In Russia alone, five emperors were assassinated within less than 200 years – Ivan VI, Peter III, Paul I, Alexander II and Nicholas II (along with his family: his wife, Alexandra; daughters Olga, Tatiana, Maria and Anastasia, and son Alexei). In the United Kingdom, only one Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has ever been assassinated—Spencer Perceval on May 11, 1812.\n\nThe most notable assassination victim within early U.S. history was President Abraham Lincoln. Three other U.S. Presidents have been killed by assassination: James Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy. Presidents Andrew Jackson, Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman, Gerald Ford, and Ronald Reagan survived significant assassination attempts (FDR while President-elect, the others while in office). Former President Theodore Roosevelt was shot and wounded during the 1912 presidential campaign. During the Lincoln Assassination, there were also attacks planned against current Vice-president Andrew Johnson and Secretary William H. Seward, but Johnson's did not go through, and Seward survived the attack. An assassination plot against Jefferson Davis, known as the Dahlgren Affair, may have been initiated during the American Civil War.\n\nIn Europe the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand by Gavrilo Princip, one of several Serb nationalist insurgents, triggered World War I. Archduke Franz Ferdinand was visiting Bosnia-Herzegovina, since it was newly annexed to the Austro-Hungarian Empire. He had a route through the city streets of Sarajevo, Bosnia, but was redirected to a back alley. He changed his course and as he was led around the corner out of the back alley and back onto the main street, Gavrilo Princip shot Franz Ferdinand and his wife (Sophie, Duchess of Hohenberg). This assassination brought the Austro-Hungarian Empire into a state of outrage and therefore, World War I was triggered.\n\nHowever, the 20th century probably marks the first time nation-states began training assassins to be specifically used against so-called enemies of the state. During World War II, for example, MI6 trained a group of Czechoslovakian operatives to kill the Nazi general Reinhard Heydrich (who did later perish by their efforts – see Operation Anthropoid), and repeated attempts were made by both the British MI6, the American Office of Strategic Services (later the Central Intelligence Agency) and the Soviet SMERSH to kill Adolf Hitler, who was in fact nearly killed in a bomb plot by a group of his own officers.\n\nIndia's \"Father of the Nation\", Mohandas K. Gandhi, was shot and killed on January 30, 1948 by Nathuram Godse, for what Godse perceived as his betrayal of the Hindu cause in attempting to seek peace between Hindus and Muslims.\n\nThe Cold War saw a dramatic increase in the number of political assassinations, likely due to the ideological polarization of most of the First and Second worlds, whose adherents were more than willing to both justify and finance such killings. During the Kennedy era, Fidel Castro narrowly escaped death on several occasions at the hands of the CIA (a function of the agency's \"executive action\" program) and CIA-backed rebels (there are accounts that exploding shoes and poisoned clams were employed); some allege that Salvador Allende of Chile was another example, though specific proof is lacking. The assassination of the FBI agent Dan Mitrione, a well-known teacher of torture techniques, in the hands of the Uruguayan guerrilla movement Tupamaros is a perfect proof of United States intervention in Latin American governments during the Cold War. At the same time, the KGB made creative use of assassination to deal with high-profile defectors such as Georgi Markov, and Israel's Mossad made use of such tactics to eliminate Palestinian guerrillas, politicians and revolutionaries, though some Israelis argue that the targeted often crossed the line between one or another or were even all three.\n\nMost major powers were not long in repudiating such tactics, for example during the presidency of Gerald Ford in the United States in 1976 (Executive Order 12333, which proscription was relaxed however by the George W. Bush administration). Many allege, however, that this is merely a smoke screen for political and moral benefit and that the covert and illegal training of assassins by major intelligence agencies continue, such as at the School of the Americas run by the United States. In fact, the debate over the use of such tactics is not closed by any means; many accuse Russia of continuing to practice it in Chechnya and against Chechens abroad, as well as Israel in Palestine and against Palestinians abroad (as well as those Mossad deems a threat to Israeli national security, as in the aftermath of the Munich Massacre during \"Operation Wrath of God\"). Besides Palestine Liberation Organization members assassinated abroad, Tsahal has also often targeted Hamas in the Gaza strip.\n\nTerrorist organizations will frequently target other combatants as well as non-combatants in their efforts, a prime example was the assassination of Irish solicitor Patrick Finucane who was murdered by the loyalist Ulster Defence Association in 1989 in Belfast, Northern Ireland.\n\nNew technology has made targeted killing easier to accomplish remotely, including high precision cruise missiles and combat drones.\n\nIn the course of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) employed what they call \"focused foiling\" ( \"\"), or targeted killing, against those suspected by Israel of intending to perform a specific act of violence in the very near future, or to be linked indirectly with several acts of violence (organizing, planning, researching means of destruction, etc.), thus raising the likelihood that his or her killing would foil similar activities in the future. Usually, such strikes have been carried out by Israeli Air Force attack helicopters that fire guided missiles at the target, after the Shin Bet supplies intelligence for the target.\n\nThe exact nature of said proof in focused foiling is controversial and classified, as it involves clandestine military intelligence oriented means and operational decisions made by intelligence officers and commanders rather than being a part of a published justice system executed by lawyers and judges.\n\nThe IDF says that targeted killings are only pursued to prevent future terrorism acts, not as revenge for past activities. It also says that this practice is only used when there is absolutely no practical way of foiling the future acts by other means (\"e.g.\", arrest), with minimal risk to the soldiers or civilians. It also says that the practice is only used when there is a certainty in the identification of the target, in order to minimize harm to innocent bystanders. The IDF deliberations about the killings remain secret. Moreover, actual injury and death of innocent bystanders remains a claim by opponents of these targeted killings.\n\nDefenders of this practice point out that it is in accordance with the Fourth Geneva Convention (), which reads: \"The presence of a protected person may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military operations,\" and so they argue that international law explicitly gives Israel the right to conduct military operations against military targets under these circumstances.\n\nTargeted killings are largely supported by Israeli society to various extents, but there are exceptions: In 2003, 27 IAF Air Force pilots sent a letter of protest to Air Force commander Dan Halutz, refusing to attack targets within Palestinian population centers, and saying that the mistreatment of the Palestinians \"morally corrupts the fabric of Israeli society\". The letter, the first of its kind emanating from the Air Force, evoked a storm of political protest in Israel, with most circles condemning it as dereliction of duty. IDF ethics forbid soldiers from making public political affiliations, and subsequently the IDF chief of staff announced that all the signatories would be suspended from flight duty, after which some of the pilots recanted and removed their signature.\n\nSome of the best-known targeted killings by Israeli military were Hamas leaders Salah Shahade (July 2002), Sheikh Ahmed Yassin (March 2004), Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi (April 2004), and Adnan al-Ghoul (October 2004). While the term \"targeted killing\" is mostly used within the context of the Al-Aqsa Intifada by airborne attacks, Israeli security forces have reportedly killed top Palestinians in the past, although this was never confirmed officially.\n\nSome of the best-known operations include:\nWhile most killings throughout the course of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict were carried out by the IDF against Palestinian leaders of what Israel says are terror factions, Israeli minister Rehavam Zeevi was assassinated by the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP), a militant group listed as a terror organization by the U.S. and the EU.\n\nPalestinian attacks against Israel have been costly for Israel. IDF reports show that from the start of the Second Intifada (in 2000) to 2005, Palestinians killed 1,074 Israelis and wounded 7,520. These are serious figures for such a small country, roughly equivalent to 50,000 dead and 300,000 wounded in the United States over five years. Such losses generated immense public pressure from the Israeli public for a forceful response, and ramped-up targeted killings were one such outcome.\n\nWhile Palestinian operations caused substantial damage, there is also evidence that the IDF reprisal targeted killing policy has been salutary in reducing the \"effectiveness\" of such attacks. As regarding Hamas, for example, although Hamas attacks \"increased\" between 2001 and 2005, Israeli deaths dropped as the people targeted for killing were killed, reduced from a high of 75 in 2001, to 21 in 2005. So even as the total number of Hamas operations climbed, deaths resulting from such attacks plunged, suggesting that the \"effectiveness\" of such attacks was being continually weakened.\n\nThere are several practical reasons why calculated hits may weaken the effectiveness of terrorist activities. Targeted killings eliminate skilled terrorists, bomb makers, forgers, recruiters and other operatives who need time to develop expertise. The targeted killings also disrupt the opponent's infrastructure, organization, and morale, and cause immense stress on the targets, who must constantly move, switch locations, and hide. This reduces the flow of information in the terrorist organization and reduces its effectiveness. Targeted killings may also serve as a demoralizing agent. Targeted individuals cannot visit their wives, children, relatives, or families without severe risk, and may even avoid their names being made public for fear of being killed. Israeli killings of Hamas leaders Yassin and Rantisi for example, caused Hamas to not publicly identify their replacement, a step necessary to ensure his survival.\n\nContinual diplomatic pressure against the Israeli policy, and the announcement of temporary cease-fires at various times by Hamas are seen by some as further proof of the policy's efficacy. Some observers, however, argue that other factors are at play, including improved intelligence-gathering leading to more arrests, and the construction of the Israeli West Bank barrier which has made it more difficult for terrorists to infiltrate.\n\nIn 1943, the United States military used knowledge from decoded transmissions to carry out a targeted killing of the Japanese Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the U.S. attempted several times to assassinate Cuban President Fidel Castro.\n\nIn 1981, President Ronald Reagan issued Executive Order 12333, which codified a policy first laid down in 1976 by the Ford administration. It stated, \"No person employed by or acting on behalf of the United States Government shall engage in, or conspire to engage in, assassination.\"\n\nIn 1986, the American air strikes against Libya included an attack on the barracks where Muammar al-Gaddafi was known to be sleeping. It was claimed that the attack resulted in the death of Gaddafi's infant daughter but reporter Barbara Slavin of USA Today who was in Libya at the time, set the record straight. \"His adopted daughter was not killed,\" she said. \"An infant girl was killed. I actually saw her body. She was adopted posthumously by Gadhafi. She was not related to Gadhafi.\"\n\nDuring the 1991 Gulf War, the U.S. struck many of Iraq's most important command bunkers with bunker-busting bombs in hopes of killing Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.\n\nSince the rise of al-Qaeda, both the Clinton and Bush administrations have backed \"targeted killings.\" In 1998, in retaliation for the al-Qaeda attacks on U.S. embassies in East Africa, the Clinton administration launched cruise missiles against a training camp in Afghanistan where bin Laden had been hours before. Reportedly, the U.S. nearly killed the leader of Taliban, Mullah Omar, with a Predator-launched Hellfire missile on the first night of Operation Enduring Freedom. In May 2002, the CIA launched a Hellfire missile from a Predator drone in an effort to kill the Afghan warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar.\n\nOn November 3, 2002, a US Central Intelligence Agency-operated MQ-1 Predator unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) fired a Hellfire missile that destroyed a car carrying six suspected al-Qaeda operatives in Yemen. The target of the attack was Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi, the top al-Qaeda operative in Yemen. Among those killed in the attack was a US citizen, Yemeni-American Ahmed Hijazi.\n\nAccording to Bush administration, the killing of an American in this fashion was legal. \"I can assure you that no constitutional questions are raised here. There are authorities that the president can give to officials. He's well within the balance of accepted practice and the letter of his constitutional authority,\" said Condoleezza Rice, the US national security adviser.\n\nDuring the press-conference, the US State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said that Washington's reasons for opposing the targeted killings of Palestinians might not apply in other circumstances and denied allegation that by staging the Yemen operation the US may be using double standards towards Israeli policy: \"We all understand the situation with regard to Israeli–Palestinian issues and the prospects of peace and the prospects of negotiation ... and of the need to create an atmosphere for progress. ... A lot of different things come into play there. ... Our policy on targeted killings in the Israeli-Palestinian context has not changed.\"\n\nOn December 3, 2005, the US was blamed for another incident, in which alleged al-Qaeda #3 man (operations chief Abu Hamza Rabia) was reportedly killed in Pakistan by an airborne missile, together with four associates. However, Pakistani officials claim the group was killed while preparing explosives, not from any targeted military operation., The US has made no official comment about the incident.\n\nOn January 13, 2006 US CIA-operated unmanned Predator drones launched four Hellfire missiles into the Pakistani village of Damadola, about from the Afghan border, killing at least 18 people. The attack targeted Ayman al-Zawahiri who was thought to be in the village. Pakistani officials later said that al-Zawahiri was not there and that the U.S. had acted on faulty intelligence.\n\nOn June 7, 2006, US Forces dropped one laser-guided bomb and one GPS-guided bomb on a safehouse north of Baqubah, Iraq, where Al-Qaeda in Iraq leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was believed to be meeting with several aides. His death was confirmed the next day.\n\nOn May 2, 2011, Osama bin Laden, the founder of the militant Islamist organization al-Qaeda, was killed by gunshot wounds in a raid by United States special operations forces on his safe house in Bilal Town, Abbottabad, Pakistan.\n\nIndia saw assassination of her father of nation – Mahatma Gandhi on 30 January 1948 by one Nathuram Godse, Gandhi supporting India's partition into India and Pakistan and his soft corner for Muslim hardliners being a prime cause of Godse's action.\n\nLal Bahadur Shastri, India's second Prime Minister died in Tashkent, USSR. His cause of death remains a mystery but his body turned blue indicating poisoning. He had gone to Tashkent for a Multi-nation meet in general and to meet Pakistani premier in particular.\n\nIndia's third Prime minister – Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984 by Sikh Extremists in retaliation at her decision to storm the Golden Temple in Amritsar.\n\nHer son Rajiv Gandhi too met his end when he was assassinated by the LTTE in 1991.\n\nRussia employed a similar strategy in the course of its First and Second Chechen Wars, targeting the leaders of the Chechen separatist movement. Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudaev was killed by an air strike of the Russian Air Force on April 21, 1996, and Aslan Maskhadov was killed on March 8, 2005. On July 10, 2006, Shamil Basayev, the Chechen rebel, was killed in an explosion, though it is unclear if this was an accident in the handling of explosives, or a targeted Russian attack.\n\nIn the poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko of 2006, a former KGB officer was murdered in Great Britain by means of the radioactive element polonium-210. Litvinenko had obtained political asylum in Great Britain, and was an outspoken critic of Vladimir Putin and the Russian security services. It was reported that the source of the polonium had been traced to a Russian nuclear power plant, and Russia subsequently refused Britain's request to extradite ex-KGB bodyguard Andrey Lugovoy to face murder charges; Lugovoy was later elected to the Russian State Duma. Litvinenko himself blamed his murder on Putin.\n"}
{"id": "12548817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12548817", "title": "Hyōbanki", "text": "Hyōbanki\n\nHyōbanki (評判記) were compilations of rankings and critiques of kabuki actors and courtesans published in Edo period Japan. They were generally published at the new year in Edo and Kamigata, reviewing and ranking the courtesans and actors of the previous year. Along with \"ukiyo-e\" woodblock prints and other publications, \"hyōbanki\" were important elements in the urban popular culture of the period.\n\nA book called \"yarō hyōbanki\" was published in 1656, though many scholars consider the 1687 \"yakusha hyōbanki\" to be the first in the form. These were published regularly until 1890.\n\nActors were ranked according to a fairly simple scale:\n\nIn print, variations were used to represent intermediate ranks between \"Jō-jō\" and \"Jō-jō-kichi\". Sometimes only parts of the \"kanji\" (character) for \"kichi\" (吉) would be written in, each stroke towards completing the character representing an intermediate rank. Other times, strokes would be written in outline instead of ink-filled, to represent intermediate rankings not yet achieved.\n\nAt times, ranks above \"jō-jō-kichi\" were added, to describe and rank the greatest kabuki actors.\n\n"}
{"id": "19166484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19166484", "title": "Inuit culture", "text": "Inuit culture\n\nInuit describes the various groups of indigenous peoples who live throughout \"Inuit Nunangat\", that is the Inuvialuit Settlement Region of the Northwest Territories and Nunavut of Northern Canada, Nunavik in Quebec and Nunatsiavut in Labrador, as well as in Greenland. The term culture of the Inuit, therefore, refers primarily to these areas; however, parallels to other Eskimo groups can also be drawn.\n\nThe traditional lifestyle of the Inuit is adapted to extreme climatic conditions; their essential skills for survival are hunting and trapping. Agriculture was never possible in the millions of square kilometres of tundra and icy coasts from Siberia to Northern America and Greenland. Therefore, hunting became the core of the culture and cultural history of the Inuit. Thus, the everyday life in modern Inuit settlements, established only some decades ago, still reflects the 5,000-year-long history of a typical hunting culture which allowed the Inuit peoples and their ancestors to achieve one of the most remarkable human accomplishments, the population of the Arctic.\n\nEuropeans in North America used to refer to the Inuit as Eskimos, but the people consider that term pejorative. The primary reason some people consider \"Eskimo\" derogatory is the questionable but widespread perception that in Algonquian languages it means \"eaters of raw meat.\" One Cree speaker suggested the original word that became corrupted to Eskimo might indeed have been \"askamiciw\" (which means \"he eats it raw\"), and the Inuit are referred to in some Cree texts as \"askipiw\" (which means \"eats something raw\").\n\nThe word \"Inuit\" is the autonym, the name which the people use for themselves and it means \"the people.\" Its singular form is \"Inuk.\"\n\nPeriod I (9000 – 5000 BCE)\nPeriod II (5000 – c. 2000 BCE)\nPeriod III (c. 2000 – 1000 BCE)\n\nArchaeologists are certain that the predecessors of today's Inuit originated in the area of the Bering Strait, which separates Asia and North America. The first Inuit group, known as Paleo-Eskimos, crossed the Strait in 3000 BCE presumably on winter ice, which was long after earlier migrations by the ancestors to the North American Indians. Archaeological finds have revealed that the Paleo-Eskimos moved to the northern Canadian Arctic in 2300 BCE, apparently because of a change in climate. From there they gradually followed the herds of game across the Arctic to Greenland, and dispersed into more distinct nomadic tribes.\nPre-Dorset culture is said to begin when the Paleo-Eskimos settled on the islands of the Canadian archipelago and northern Greenland. The descriptions \"Dorset\" and \"Pre-Dorset\" come from Cape Dorset on Baffin Island, the source of an assemblage which in 1925 anthropologist Diamond Jenness identified as originating from a hitherto unknown \"Dorset culture.\" The Paleo-Eskimos weathered the winter of the high Arctic with much more difficulty than their later descendants because they lacked technologies such as boats, harpoon-tips, dog sleds, dwellings other than skin tents, and sources of warmth other than small fire pits and wood fuels. In the central Canadian Arctic, they mainly hunted muskoxen and caribou with bow and arrow, and fished with barbed devices. Groups living near the coastline hunted seals, walruses and smaller whales by throwing harpoons from the shore or from sea ice.\n\n\nThis Paleo-Eskimo culture was named after Independence Fjord, where traces of a large settlement were found. Their lodgings were erected on elliptical foundations centred upon box-shaped hearths made of flat stones set on end. These they filled with driftwood, musk ox dung, and bones. They might have started fires with the help of a bow drill operated by sinews, which was in general use some centuries later.\n\nIn the western and southern parts of the eastern coast of Greenland, the Saqqaq culture developed around 2300 BCE and lasted 1500 years. The centre of their settlements was Disko Bay near the place Saqqaq, which lent its name to the culture. The people extended their culture along the fjords and coastlines in the area. The culture of the Saqqaq people shows marked similarity to the culture that in the Canadian Arctic is described as \"Pre-Dorset\", and the two cultures developed around the same time. Scholars believe that the people of the Saqqaq split off from the Pre-Dorset culture, migrated into Greenland from Ellesmere Island in the north, and later migrated to the southern coast.\n\nWestern Arctic\n\n\nEastern Arctic\n\n\nPresumably for climatic reasons, northern Greenland was not populated for about 500 years afterward. Archaeological evidence has shown that before the disappearance of the Saqqaq culture from southern Greenland, a new culture arrived from the Canadian archipelago. The newer people showed a more developed culture from an archaeological standpoint. That culture is called Independence II culture, and it seems to have developed from the Canadian Pre-Dorset cultures. Possibly, they came in close contact with the Saqqaq culture.\n\nThe range of distribution of the Independence II people approximately corresponds to that of the Independence I people. The oldest finds have been dated to 1400 BCE, and the most recent to 400 BCE. Researchers have not confirmed whether the farthest northern regions of Greenland were constantly settled during this 1000-year period, because only about 10 dwellings are extant. The climate of that time steadily worsened; the warmest temperature of the Independence II period approximately matches the coldest temperature of the Independence I period.\n\nArchaeological research has focused its fieldwork on areas of Greenland below 83 degrees latitude north for traces of the Independence II culture. In 1987 the remains of a larger Independence II settlement was discovered on the Île-de-France (at about 78 degrees north). The Independence II people hunted the same animals as earlier cultures (seals and muskoxen), but for the first time also walruses. The houses of the Independence II period were similar to those of the Independence I period, only more complex. So far no connection between the two cultures has been proven. Independence II tools are more reminiscent of the Pre-Dorset and the later Dorset culture. The fate of the Independence II culture is unknown; it is possible that they migrated south along the east coast of Greenland and merged into the Dorset Culture.\n\nArchaeological evidence shows that between 500 BCE and 500 CE, remarkable technological and cultural advances took place in the area of northern Canada and Greenland known as the Dorset region. Today this period is known as Dorset I. The Dorset people are probably identical to the \"Tuniit\" (singular Tuniq, also Tornit or Tunirjuat), who are described in Inuit mythology as powerful giants who dwelt in stone houses. They were believed to have been capable of enormous feats of strength, such as carrying walruses or moving enormous boulders.\n\nTheir hunting methods were greatly improved over previous Arctic cultures. They probably invented the igloo, which is difficult to determine because such ephemeral structures leave no archaeological evidence. They spent the winters in relatively permanent dwellings constructed of stone and pieces of grass; these were the precursors of the later qarmaqs. They were also the first culture to carve seal-oil lamps (\"qulliq\", also spelled \"kudlik\") from soapstone.\n\nIn the next 500 years, known as the Dorset II period, the Dorset culture expanded to occupy the region between Victoria Island in the west to Greenland in the east to Newfoundland in the south. A shift in climate, which enabled them to settle high-Arctic regions, probably contributed to this. It is remarkable that the Dorset II culture uniformly maintained the stylistic attributes of the Dorset I culture despite this rapid territorial expansion.\nIvory carvings date to as early as the Dorset I period, but artistic activity appears to have greatly increased in the Dorset II period. The presence of tiny human masks that subtly suggest animal features, carvings of bears with incised spirit lines indicating skeletal structures, and enigmatic tubes that may have been used to suck spirits out of the possessed; indicate the shamanistic, ritual character of this art. This cultural trend probably results from socio-economic pressures exerted upon the Dorset by the presence of new ethnic groups in the region.\n\nThis period's climate was responsible for the Vikings' naming of Iceland and Greenland, labels that in our times sound paradoxical.\n\nThe relatively temperate climate of the Alaska had allowed much greater cultural advances among the peoples there during the 3,000 years since the Pre-Dorset had left the region.\n\nThe various peoples of the Alaskan coasts had in that period developed entirely new techniques for hunting and fishing; these technologies also fundamentally changed their lifestyle and culture. Developments included boats constructed of watertight seal skin stretched over wooden frames such as the kayak (Inuktitut: \"qajag\"), used by hunters, and the \"umiak\", a large boat used by groups of up to 20 women; new styles of spears, and harpoons equipped with weights and floats. These technologies enabled the hunting of whales, which provided a valuable source of food (especially whale skin, rich in vitamin C) and expanded the range of available materials to be processed for construction (bones and skin) and heating (whale oil). The development of dog sleds and of igloos that could be entered by a tunnel provided easier travel for the people and warmer dwellings during the winter. All of these advances promoted the formation of new social, religious, and artistic values.\n\nThe warmer climate of North America in 1000 CE increased the amount of habitable territory in the Arctic and contributed to population growth. Presumably, this development, along with the constant pursuit of quarry into higher latitudes and the search for meteorite iron, was a major impetus for the migration of the Alaskan Thule into northern Canada and Greenland. In the so-called \"second migration\", some of the displaced groups migrated south, settling in the Hudson Bay area. As Inuit myths explain, the Dorset-culture residents were assimilated by the technologically superior Thule in most areas but were massacred in others. The Dorset culture subsequently died out throughout the Arctic in a short period around 1000 CE. They held out for a few centuries longer in northern Labrador and in the Ungava region (until about 1300 CE); the isolated Sadlermiut survived until the early 20th century on the southern coasts of Southampton Island and two islands nearby, Walrus Island and Coats Island.\nThe new arrivals were the direct ancestors of today's Inuit. They originated from the area around the Bering Strait, but are named the Thule after the location of the first traces of their settlements to be excavated: Thule, Greenland.\n\nThe typical Thule house was constructed from a framework of whale jawbones and ribs anchored in the tundra soil with rocks. Animal hides were stretched over the frame, which was covered with sod. As accommodations for long hunting trips, the Thule used hide-tents in the summer.\n\nWhile the artistic productions of the Dorset were almost exclusively shaped by shamanistic ritual and myths, such influences are barely detectable in Thule art. The utensils discovered in excavations of well-preserved Thule dwellings show only decorative incisions. These utensils were almost entirely functional, with no ritual purpose. Small figurative carvings in ivory of female figures, water birds, and whales have also been found in Thule sites, but in relatively small numbers. Occasionally water birds would be depicted with the heads of women and vice versa, but such shamanistic carvings are few among the already small proportions of figurative carvings in Thule art.\n\nAmong the art of the Thule, the depictions of bears especially contrasts with the art of the Dorset. In Dorset art, bears are realistically depicted within stylistic conventions; today, these objects are interpreted as spirit-helpers or amulets against dangers encountered in the hunt. In Thule art, images of bears are limited to carved bear heads that attached to harpoon shafts. Whether they served a decorative or functional purpose is uncertain (probably both). The Thule used bear teeth as jewellery, or hunting trophies. The artefacts left by the Thule generally suggests that they led a more comfortable lifestyle and had leisure time to artistically decorate their personal effects- their art was not the result of social or economic anxieties.\n\nThey constructed diverse and numerous Inuksuit (like a man), piled-stone landmarks that survive. Some are examples of an impressive art form.\n\nFrom the beginning of the 14th century, a gradual cooling occurred throughout the Canadian Archipelago and the Arctic Ocean coast of the mainland. The period between 1550 and 1880, the so-called \"Little Ice Age\", caused temperatures significantly lower than today's in North America and Europe (with a brief period of higher heat around 1800). The effect of the drop in temperature upon the hunting-dependent lifestyle of the Thule was significant. Entire regions of the high Arctic were depopulated, partly by mass migrations but also by the starvation of entire communities. The traditional way of life was maintained only by communities in the relatively hospitable regions of the Arctic: the southern end of Baffin Island, Labrador, and the southernmost tip of Greenland. In Greenland, the Thule developed a different social structure and new dwelling types, and became what is known as the Inugsuk culture.\n\nIn Greenland, the beginning of the 17th century brought the first European whaling ships and sudden change. In the following 150 years, up to 10,000 whalers would annually pass the coast of Greenland and substantially influence the culture of the Thule living there. The emerging trade relationships made intermarriage with European-Canadians and European-Americans common; there were few genetically pure Inugsuk after several generations.\n\nThe 19th century is regarded as the beginning of \"Inuit culture.\" Although the Thule traditions endured in a limited way, the living conditions of Inuit in the historical period were considerably worse than those of their ancestors 1000 years before. The technical standards and spirit of their artwork likewise began to decline. Carving and decorative engraving, for example, became rarer and less differentiated. The colder climate of the period and the resulting decline in animals as game meant that the Inuit were forced to abandon their winter settlements in search of quarry. In their newly nomadic way of life, the Inuit built more temporary winter dwellings. These were tent-like huts constructed of stone, grass, and snow. The Inuit called them \"qarmaqs\". The technique of constructing igloos was further developed and became more widespread.\n\nContact with Europeans was another important impetus for change in the culture of the Inuit. The earliest contacts with the Vikings, later with explorers, fishermen and whalers, affected Canadian Inuit (as opposed to Greenland's) less profoundly and more locally. Those early European arrivals did not intend to settle Canada. Such contacts proved fatal for many Inuit due to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases, smallpox and other infectious diseases.\n\nIn contrast, tradesmen, missionaries and representatives of the Canadian administration established themselves in the region and directly influenced the life of the natives. The Canadians erected the first administrative and police stations in 1903, near the important whaling base of Fullerton Harbour on Hudson Bay and on Herschel Island northwest of the Mackenzie Delta. In that same year, the Norwegian Roald Amundsen started to transit the famous Northwest Passage with his ship \"Gjøa\" on a more southerly course than that of his predecessors, alongside the Canadian mainland.\n\nStarting at the beginning of the 20th century, radical changes occurred for the Arctic people. Greenland was visited with increasing frequency: Alfred Wegener led an expedition in 1912–13, and the Thule expeditions by Knud Rasmussen took place in 1915-1924. In 1933, the Permanent Court of International Justice attested Denmark's authority in Greenland, with cultural, political and structural impacts for the Inuit.\n\nIn Canada, the Hudson's Bay Company tapped the previously unexplored \"Barren Lands\" of the Kivalliq Region to the west of Hudson Bay for trade. The Inuit no longer hunted animals for food and clothing, but mainly to acquire goods for barter with the emissaries of markets in the south and in Europe. The fur of the Arctic fox was especially in demand, but other kinds of fur and the ivory of walruses and narwhals were also desirable. The insistence on fox fur alone caused disruption as the trapping of foxes was traditionally done by the women. However, the numbers required by the traders meant travelling long distances over the trap line and it became men's work (see Menstruation and Family life below). Due to trade, the Inuit could acquire goods of the European-Canadian civilization, such as weapons and ammunition, tobacco, coffee, tea, sugar and flour. To keep the hunters associated with the trading posts, the traders lent them traps and extended credit to the Inuit. Becoming more dependent on another people meant that the native society had lost its former self-sufficiency. Therefore changing their cultural development.\n\nThe basic social structure of the Inuit in the 19th century consisted of an estimated 50 groups of 200 to 800 members apiece. The membership was based upon the voluntary association of large and loosely composed clans. The clans in turn were made up of extended families- the grandparents, parents, and children. Such a loose social structure, which allowed families self-sufficiency and self-governance, increased the chances of social survival in times of scarcity.\n\nHunting provided the Inuit with a balanced diet and the raw materials for clothing, housing, household implements and heating, boat and sled-building, hunting weapons, toys, and art-objects. Stones, carefully chosen and carved, were used for select but important objects: arrow, spear, and harpoon heads, hide-scrapers, and knives. Soapstone, a relatively soft and easily carved material, was used for the production of oil lamps (qulliqs) and cooking vessels.\nPlant-materials played a small role in Inuit culture, as they were so rare. Wood is scarce in the Arctic, except in the form of occasional driftwood. The bones, tusks, and antlers of hunted animals were used in its place. Berries were collected in large numbers during the late summer, but while they provided a source of some vitamins, they were far from sufficient. The people met their vitamin requirements by eating raw animal products, such as muktuk (whale skin and blubber), meat and fish.\n\nThe Inuit tradition of living in tents during summer and in igloos and qarmait (singular: qarmaq, warm half-subterranean houses made from boulders, whale bones and sod) in winter still followed the Thule practices. The most important principle of all building constructions was the lowered entrance tunnel, which served as a windscreen and cold trap. The inner living area was constructed at a higher level so that the heavier cold air could not easily enter it. Girl children played with string figures within the igloos, as preparation for learning to sew and partly as a ritual act. The girls of the Chugach people mainly played this in autumn because it was believed this weaving captured the sunrays and thus delayed the beginning of winter. Often the creation of string figures was accompanied by rhymes and songs describing tales, legends and myths.\n\nThe Inuit had developed winter clothing that ensured an effective use of the body heat, avoiding holes that would allow air to leak out. Apart from seal, mostly caribou skin was used, and in Greenland polar bear fur. In order to create a cushion of warm air, the clothing was loosely tailored and worn in two layers, the outer one with the hair inside, the inner one with the hair outside. In summer, only the inner layer was worn. The hood fixed on the inside of the coat avoided the leaking of warm air at the neck. Mothers used an additional part of their hoods for carrying the toddlers in their parka (\"amauti\").\n\nMany elders still remember the time, more than 60 years ago, when the Inuit lived a nomadic lifestyle. Depending on the seasons (up to sixteen according to old traditions), they followed the animals they hunted for clothing and nourishment. They had to relocate and reconstruct their camps frequently and followed the same traditions for generations.\n\nAt the turn to the 20th century, most Inuit still lived in hide tents during the summer. Sometimes, they already owned canvas tents obtained from the Hudson's Bay Company. The interior was divided into a back part used for sleeping, usually raised by coat underlays, and a front part for cooking and living; a tradition still in practice today. The woman's sleeping place was always beside the kudlik, an oil lamp usually carved from soapstone used for lighting, heating and cooking, because it was her duty to operate it. The man's sleeping place was near the weapons and hunting equipment; the children were nestled between their parents for warmth. Today the kudlik is replaced by a product of modern industry, the Coleman stove, which is easy to transport and operated by gasoline and naphtha.\n\nIn the few months of summer, the people moved camp to the estuaries, because there it was easier to catch the favoured Arctic char, e.g. by using artificial weirs, and the eggs of seabirds. For the inland Inuit, the caribou was the most important resource; it provided meat, a hide for clothing, and sinew for rope. The coastal Inuit hunted mostly seals and walruses and, depending on the region, narwhals and belugas; of course also the occasional caribou. The seals were used for food for men and dogs. Their oil was used for the kudliks, and their skin and sinews for seal boots (\"kamik\"), kayak coverings, ropes (also drag ropes for dog sleds) and dog whips.\n\nDuring the winter, the Inuit lived in igloos, which were erected separately or connected by tunnels. Snow of a specific consistency was necessary to build them. They had the same general interior arrangement as the tents. The most important element was a lowered entrance tunnel, repelling the heavier cold air and the wind from entering inside. As additional prevention against cold, the sleeping area was elevated by a layer of snow as compared to the living area.\n\nSome of the families that wanted to live in permanent camps, built themselves a partially subsurface home of rocks, whale bones, coat and sod, the so-called qarmaq. The construction of such camps is certainly based on the Thule tradition. During the winter, they used qarmaqs, but in summer preferred the more airy tents.\nDue to the hard weather conditions in winter, in this season the families joined closer together. Mutual visits at hunting places of different groups were for the exchange of news and experiences, but mostly for the exchange of food from different sources. In winter, travelling was done by dog sleds, partly presumably also by foot.\n\nDuring the warmer seasons, mainly the people used the kayak, or, mostly as \"women boat\" for families, the large umiak, and travelled by foot. Traditional land routes were, e.g., from Wager Bay to Repulse Bay in north, to Chesterfield Inlet with the adjacent Baker Lake in the southwest and to Chantrey Inlet at the Arctic Ocean in the northwest.\n\nBetween 1800 and 1950, the culture and way of living of the Canadian Inuit, who had not known any monetary system before, changed fundamentally. Complete self-sufficiency and independence were to a large extent replaced by dependence on goods of western industrialized countries, such as clothing, many kinds of foodstuffs, weapons, tools and technical equipment. This development was largely due to the fact that as hunters and trappers, they could develop only a low level of productivity that could not financially cover the Western way of living. Moreover, the products of the kill depended too much on market and fashion fluctuations, not to speak of concerns related to protection of species and of the environment.\nPost-World War II, the northern regions were increasingly incorporated into a Cold War strategic defense concept, and military and radar stations of the Distant Early Warning Line (DEW Line) were established. Although this developed the infrastructure and created jobs, it also led to a sudden urbanization that not every community could adapt to. Traditional ways of living were increasingly constrained and eliminated, with no provision made for the transition to the new way of living. The transitional difficulties were further enhanced, for example, by the fact that at the end of the 1940s, the Kivalliq Region had to be placed under quarantine because of the appearance of serious infectious diseases such as polio (for which there was as yet no vaccine). At the same time, the caribou population west of Hudson Bay nearly perished. As a consequence, the Inuit of that area lost their food supply. Those Inuit still mostly living in camps faced an increasing threat from tuberculosis; many who contracted the disease had to be treated in sanatoriums in the south. Many Inuit tried to continue their traditional way of living in their ancestral regions while adapting to the new conditions. But, they became more dependent on governmental welfare.\n\nThe Canadian state had primarily scientific interest in its northern regions during the first half of the century. Beginning in the 1950s, it became concerned about three issues: military security requirements, discovery of economically important natural resources, and an increasing sensibility for the special concerns of the Inuit. The government felt the need to exercise governmental control and sovereignty over the territory. The Canadian government created a \"Department of Indian Affairs and Natural Resources\" in 1953 (now Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada). This department established social benefits such as unemployment aid, social welfare, care of the sick and of the elderly, child allowance, comprehensive educational and welfare programs of the industrial areas of Canada. At the same time, the Canadian government forcibly moved many Inuit families from their traditional hunting grounds into new and empty areas, to reinforce claims of Canadian sovereignty.\nBy the mid-1950s, dramatic changes had occurred for the Canadian Inuit, which lasted well into the 1960s. There were differences among the regions of Nunavut, such as the Qikiqtaaluk (Baffin), Kivalliq or Kitikmeot. The common characteristic was the extensive change from the nomadic to the sedentary way of living. Inuit left their camps and moved into settlements with permanent buildings. The wooden building replaced the igloo, qarmaq and tents originally made from hide. Since then, the Inuit have lived in residential buildings prefabricated in the south of Canada and—because of permafrost—built on stilts. These buildings are heated with oil stoves (every building has a holding tank for heating oil). Fresh water is delivered by tankers, and sewage is brought away the same way. The buildings contain kitchens with electric range, sink, and freezer; a bathroom with shower and/or bathtub, and flushing toilet; washers and dryers have become common. Like other westerners, many households keep their TV sets on almost 24 hours a day. The people use fax machines and e-mail for correspondence.\n\nTraditionally, young Inuit women received little information about puberty, fertility, and pregnancy. Consequently, elders describe that it was not uncommon for young women to remain in bed when they reached menarche, believing that they were sick or physiologically different. Once informed, the young woman's mother would instruct her on menstruation practices and often, the camp (or community) would become apprised of her situation. During menstruation, women were expected to follow certain practices including, 1) not sitting where men sat, 2) using rabbit skin, foxes or mosses and other garments, with the exception of men's garments, for sanitary pads, and 3) laying rabbit skin on the bed at night to soak up blood. According to elders, women had to abide by more rules than men because of their menstruation and some rules were not only considered tradition, but also taboo if not followed. For example, using a man's garment for a sanitary pad could prevent the young woman from finding a husband for marriage.\n\nMarriage commonly occurred when the female reached 14–15 years of age and the man reached adulthood, considered around 20 years of age. The marriage was traditionally arranged by the parents of the couple, possibly as early as infanthood, and often reflected a desire to strengthen the bond between families. In some parts of the Arctic, men also practised the tradition of \"stealing\" their wife from a camp, symbolically showing that the family did not want the daughter to leave their camp. In these cases, the family would later celebrate together and the woman would then join the husband's territory.\n\nChildhood of the Inuit was still very brief the first half of the 20th century. Especially girls entered marriage at an early age. Before the arrival of Christian missionaries, it was mostly the families who decided which children should marry whom, i.e. arranged marriages. Marriages often served to strengthen family ties, and girls had no say in choosing their partners. Sometimes a young man who had not yet been pledged, sent to the parents of the girl, without being personally present in those negotiations. The wedding was completely unceremonial (the same was true for birthdays). After Christianization, the only change was that now the couples also received Christian marriage ceremonies whenever a priest travelled their areas (often months after the actual marriage). When finally government administration had been established, marriages were also registered by the administration, initially by police officers, later by the local administrations. Since moving from the camps to the settlements, more couples live together without marriage. This way, they feel less tied but also less responsible. But still, in the 1970s, it was in no way unusual to make agreements regarding newborns about eventual marriages. However, when these promises of marriage became due, fifteen or twenty years later, they were taken less and less seriously.\n\nBefore Christianizing (referred to as Siqqitiq by the Inuit), polygamy, more often polygyny, less so polyandry, were not unusual among the Inuit. Extramarital relationships were accepted especially during extensive hunting trips, and there were so-called \"lamp extinction games\" with ritual partner exchanges. According to a popular theory, these traditions reduced the danger of inbreeding and resulting population bottleneck in small and isolated settlements. With colonization, these customs led to great conflicts: On one hand such traditions were thought by missionaries as sinful, on the other, they were interpreted as sexual arbitrariness and taken advantage of, often leading to prostitution and sexual exploitation.\n\nUntil the middle of the 20th century, i.e. until the move from disperse camps to settlements, the sexual division of labour between men and women within the families and family groups in northern Canada was traditionally arranged fairly well, and rather different: The men were responsible for the acquisition of food, especially for hunting and fishing, and for technical work (including the construction of igloos, qarmaqs, and tents). The Inuit women were predominantly in charge of intra-family concerns, such as caring for little children, taking care of the kill (conservation of meat, cleaning of furs, and the like), the sewing of clothing, fire keeping in the qulliq, etc. (their participation in hunting and fishing was limited). Whenever a family lost its breadwinner (for example in an accident), it was usually dependent on support by other families, and the widow was sometimes adopted as an additional wife by a close relative of the deceased (see widow inheritance).\n\nHowever, due to men being required to sometimes travel large distances to obtain food the division was not absolute. Men, for example, would need to know how to sew in case repairs were needed to their clothing. At the same, time women were required to know how to hunt and be able to help with igloo building.\n\nThe move from the camps to the settlements, which essentially took place during the 1950s, brought about significant changes in this respect: The Inuit now were immediate subjects of governmental administration and care (also social welfare). By occupations that were completely new to them, like in health care and local administration, but also in Inuit arts, the women with their earned money were able to contribute like the men to the livelihood of their families. Nowadays, the division of tasks and responsibilities between male and female Inuit are, following Canadian legislation, not very different from western industrialized nations, of which the Inuit are considered a part. In the Northwest Territories the first female premier was Nellie Cournoyea, an Inuk. In Nunavut, female representatives and ministers are as common as their male counterparts. There are Inuit municipalities with female mayors, for example.\n\nNunavummiut, 85% of whom identify as Inuit, experience wide gaps in health status and access. The people of Nunavut have a life expectancy which is more than 14 years shorter than the Canadian average (66.8 years vs. 81 years). This is likely affected by its astonishingly high suicide rate, which is eleven times the national average. Smoking rates among females are at 50% versus 20.5% nationally, and the fertility rate is more than twice as high (3.3 vs. 1.5 nationally). Of particular concern in Nunavut is rapid urbanization and subsequent overcrowding, with many homes without improved sanitation facilities. Food insecurity is another concern, with nearly 57% of children living in food insecure households as measured by University of Toronto researchers. This dovetails with Nunavut's high obesity rate, which stands at 45.4%- more than twice the national average of 21.8%.\n\nThe Second World War and subsequent Cold War initiated a newfound interest in the Arctic by the Canadian government. Its vast mineral resources and strategic proximity to the USSR brought rapid development to the region. The study of the Inuit people's health outcomes also began, finding vast health disparities between northern and southern Canadians. This prompted the opening of several nursing outposts in the Northwest Territories, including what is now Nunavut to provide primary and some secondary care to the Inuit population. These proved successful, and several studies found that Inuit had better access to primary care than many southern Canadians. To aid in maternity care, the government in Ottawa began recruiting midwives from England and New Zealand to work in the Arctic regions, which preserved the woman-centred midwifery model of care practiced by the traditional Inuit midwives. However, this was short-lived due to more stringent immigration laws passed in the 1970s. The physicians recruited to replace these midwives advocated for a medicalized, tertiary-care level birth, and a de facto policy of flying women to southern hospitals for labour and delivery was adopted. In the 1970s and 1980s, nearly 100% of pregnant women were flown out of their homeland to give birth. The most popular routes—from north to Yellowknife, Ottawa, Ontario; Churchill, Manitoba; or Winnipeg, Manitoba could be more than 1,000 miles.\n\nSo common was the fly out to give birth that Inuit culture began to adapt to this almost inevitable fact. To announce a newborn member of their community, many Inuit proclaim \"the newborn has arrived\" instead of \"the baby is born\". Due to the fact that the infant is several weeks old when it arrives in its homeland, it is common for members of the community to shake the baby's hand to welcome him or her to the community.\n\nIn the early 21st century, about half of Inuit women are flown out from Nunavut to southern hospitals for delivery, and evacuations consume more than 20% of the territory's health budget. They normally leave two to three weeks prior to their due date and return two to three weeks after birth. There are reports of Inuit women returning home after more than one month away to find their house in ruins and their other children poorly cared for. Inuit culture is closely tied to the land and community, and birth outside of this land causes cultural dissonance. Many Inuit women interviewed about the practice remarked that their children born outside of Nunangat were not truly Inuit. Some communities, such as Cambridge Bay, have a birthing centre available for low risk births and in 2014 two local women graduated from Nunavut Arctic College's midwifery program. The centre is available for all communities in the Kitikmeot Region. However, higher risk and first-time mothers must still go to the hospital in Yellowknife.\n\nIn regards to conception and pregnancy, young Inuit woman were discouraged from engaging in sexual intercourse during puberty, ages 11 to 13 years, until they reached \"prime maternity age\", after marriage, about 15. Similar to menarche, many young Inuit women were unaware about the indications of their first pregnancy. Elders recount that young women often thought that they had been cured of their menses when they experienced amenorrhoea for the first time. It was not uncommon for the young woman to learn about her first pregnancy from her mother or grandmother when she began to show (or carry weight). According to elders, pregnancy was also determined by, \"looking into the face\" of the young woman and/or feeling her stomach for a fetus. Once aware, it was important that the woman immediately divulge her pregnancy status to her mother, husband, and close community, as the Inuit believed that her status demanded special considerations and/or treatment to ensure the health of mother, baby, and camp.\n\nTo prevent miscarriage, the husband and camp were to assure that the woman did not become mentally stressed or exhausted during the pregnancy. This taboo extended to include not allowing the husband to get angry with his wife at any time during the pregnancy. If miscarriage did occur, the woman was expected to inform her mother and the camp right away. According to traditional Inuit beliefs, hiding such a secret would bring bad luck for the camp such as, hunger, lack of food, or illness.\n\nIn pregnancy, women's care was traditionally guided by the taboos, known as \"pittailiniq\", from the elders in the community. These taboos, which were passed down through generations and varied somewhat across geographic regions or camps, informed the woman's behaviors and activities in order to prevent complications, promote a healthy birth, and ensure desired characteristics of the infant. For example, in regards to activity, the Inuit had many pittailiniq about maintaining physical activity throughout pregnancy and resisting idleness or laziness, which was believed to adversely affect labour and birth. The Inuit words \"sailliq\" and \"sailliqtuq\", distinguished between the women who relaxed (sailliq) as appropriate, and those who relaxed too much, sailliqtuq. Another common pittailiniq instructed the woman to massage her stomach until she felt the fetus move, so that the baby wouldn't \"stick\" to the uterus.\n\nIn interviews with Inuit elders, numerous pittailiniq about the woman's activity and behavior in pregnancy are discussed. Some of these are listed below.\n\n\n\nThe Inuit also followed many taboos (pittailiniq) about diet and consumption in pregnancy. Consistently, elders report that pregnant women were to abstain from raw meat, eating only boiled or cooked meat, during pregnancy. Men were also expected to observe this rule, but only when in the presence of their wives. The preferential treatment of pregnant women also extended to food, and the best pieces of meat and food were always reserved for the pregnant woman.\n\nThe pittailiniq regarding the diet of pregnant women demonstrate the strong emphasis on maternal diet affecting infant beauty and/or appearance. Some of these pittailiniq are listed below.\n\n\nAccording to elders, the women were not taught how to prepare for birth. Women expected and trusted that they would receive instruction and advice from their midwife and other birth attendants (i.e. mother and/or mother-in-law) during the event. When labour and birth were perceived imminent, the woman and/or her attendants would set up a soft bed of caribou skins or heathers nearby. A thick layer of caribou fur on top of the heathers was desired in order to soak up the blood lost during birth.\n\nAccording to elders, birth ideally occurred with both an assistant and midwife, but due to hunting-based economy/survival, many births occurred in transit or at a hunting camp. In these cases, the elders report that either the men would assist or the woman would endure birth alone. Due to the uncertainty of their location at the time of birth, the woman was often unaware of who her midwife was until birth.\n\nIn the community, a midwife (\"Kisuliuq\", \"Sanariak\") or \"maker\" was a highly revered female member of the community, who had acquired experience and skills in birth by attending births with their mother, an elder, or other midwife of the community; often beginning at young age. The responsibilities of the midwife varied somewhat by geographic region and camp, but often included, 1) comforting the woman, 2) knowing a woman's body, including 'what was inside', 3) instructing the woman during labour on what to expect, 4) repositioning the woman to promote quick deliveries, and 4) dealing with complications.\n\nIn most communities, a man only became intentionally involved in a birth if he was a \"angakkuq\". In cases when the midwife or elder suspected a \"spiritual or supernatural interference\", the angakkuq would intervene to remove the spiritual interference of a spirit or another malicious angakkuq, to restore the spiritual balance and normal birth conditions.\n\nLabour and birth were times of great celebration in the Inuit community. Traditionally, when a woman began having contractions, her midwife would gather other women of the community to help the labouring woman through the birthing process. Additional signs of labour noted by the Inuit midwife included, a brown strip of discharge, broken water, stomachache, or the urge to pass a bowel movement. Although it was cause for great celebration, labour is traditionally a time of quiet and calm in the Inuit community, and the midwife would commonly whisper her counsel to the mother-to-be. If the woman had followed the superstitions throughout her pregnancy, she could expect her labour to be quick and easy. Many of these also extended to the actions of the woman's midwife, who was also commanded to be swift in all aspects of her life so that her client would enjoy a quick delivery. Very often, women were expected to continue their daily chores up until the late stages of labour and endure labour pains without the aid of pain management.\n\nThe midwife's goals during labour typically included keeping the woman from becoming irritable or screaming, preventing her legs from opening, preventing her from having peeing or having a bowel movement, and encouraging activity and position changes. (Inuit Midiwfiery ppt). The positions in which an Inuk woman laboured varied according to the midwife's preferences and her own comfort. These include, lithotomy, side lying, squatting, and standing positions have all been described in the literature. Often, a caribou pelt was placed under the woman and she was allowed to choose a bed or the floor. Some communities' midwives employed the use of equipment such as ropes to pull on or a box to lean over to help ease the pains of labour, but little evidence of either pharmacologic or homeopathic pain relief is described. Traditionally, the woman was required to have her spine completely straight for the entirety of her labour and delivery. To facilitate this, the midwife would often place a wooden board behind the woman to keep her back aligned. Additionally, a rolled towel or block of wood was used to keep the woman's legs and feet apart during labour, which, in the midwives' view, helped to speed the labour along.\n\nIn traditional Inuit birth culture, the birth event was handled almost exclusively by the midwife. However, the woman played an active role in her own birth experience and was encouraged to follow her body's own physiologic cues regarding pushing and rest. When she was ready to push, the midwife would tell the woman to pull on her hair with both hands and bear down. While most Inuit women gave birth at home, in some communities of western Nunangat women gave birth in separate birthing huts (\"aanigutyak\") built exclusively for this purpose. If this was not done, the place where the woman gave birth must be abandoned.\n\nOnce the baby had crowned and was born, the midwife would cut the still-pulsating umbilical cord with a special knife and tie it with caribou sinew. The midwives knew that the sinew carried a much lower risk of infection than other materials available to them. The cord was cut with enough length to pull out the placenta by hand if necessary. After the child was born and the placenta was ready for delivery, many Inuit midwives would instruct the woman to get on all fours and push in this position. Midwives were also versed in providing fundal massage to reduce the risk of postpartum hemorrhage. Some Inuit communities wrapped the placenta in cloth and buried it among the rocks of the tundra.\n\nSources on traditional Inuit birth practices provide little reference to the postpartum period. One elder midwife in Nunavut described that after birth her mother-in-law very briefly cared for the house and chores until she felt better. She also described however, that she was feeling better soon after birth and eagerly performing chores behind her mother-in-law's back.\n\nIn regards to physical care after birth, the information is also minimal. Women, who are able to breastfeed, do so immediately after birth, often continuing for two years or longer. Breastfeeding served as their only method of contraception and birth spacing. While breastfeeding, the elders describe the importance of keeping the breasts warm to prevent cracking and drinking broth for nutrition. If perineal tears have occurred during the delivery, they are left to heal on their own; the Inuit do not traditionally perform episiotomies or suture tears.\n\nThe birth of a newborn into the camp is cause for widespread celebration in the community and everyone, including children, would shake hands at its arrival. And it was believed that if the mother followed the pittailiniq in pregnancy, the child would be healthy and follow a good life in the community.\n\nImmediately after birth, the infant was assessed for breathing. If the infant was not breathing, then the midwife would hang the infant upside by his feet and slap his buttocks. The midwife also removed mucus from the infant's mouth, using either a wipe or her own mouth, to ensure that the baby was able to \"fatten\" in the coming days. The exposed cord stump was then covered with burnt arctic moss and the infant was placed in a rabbit fur or cloth pouch, sewn by the sinaji. The pouch served not only to keep the infant warm but also as a diaper and protection for the healing umbilical cord stump. It was believed that the cord stump should fall off on its own and not be looked for by the parents. If the mother found the cord stump, it indicated that the child would become hyperactive around age four. The infant was not routinely washed after birth.\n\nTraditional Inuit midwives describe that the first stool (meconium) should be observed outside the womb, as it could cause clotting and complications if left in the mother. The treatment for which was to massage the woman's stomach, promoting blood flow. They midwives also expected the infant to urinate almost immediately after birth, indicating that there was no obstruction or genital abnormality. Infants, as well as the rabbit or cloth pouch, were always dried promptly after urinating or having a bowel movement. And by a year of age, elders claim that children were potty trained.\n\nAlso occurring immediately after birth, a designated person, often the midwife, felt the infant's genitalia to determine its gender. This person then became the infant's \"sanaji\" (for an infant boy) or \"arnaliaq\" (for an infant girl) and assumed a lifelong role in the child's life. If the infant was a boy, he would later call this person his \"arnaquti\" and give her his first catch as a child. The sanaji was also responsible for cutting the umbilical cord, providing the infant's first clothes, naming the child (\"tuqurausiq\"), blessing the child (\"kipliituajuq\") and conferring the desired characteristics onto the child. It was believed that the child's direction was shaped from the earliest days of life and consequently, these practices were held in high esteem as they determined the child's future.\n\nOnce assessed by the midwife and/or sanaji, the infant was promptly given to the mother for initiation of breastfeeding. According to elders, the infant remained in nearly constant physical contact with her mother from the day of birth; sleeping on the family platform, riding in the amauti (baby carrier on the mother), or nestled in her parka for feeding.\n\nPerformed by the sanaji or midwife, the tuqurausiq was the highly valued naming practice that linked the child to a relative or deceased family friend. The Inuit believed that when the infant was born, he/her took on the soul or spirit of a recently deceased relative or community member. Through the name, the child literally assumed the relationship of his/her namesake. For example, if a child were named for someone's mother, family members would then call that child \"mother\" and give the child the same respect given to that mother. The infant's name also represented an important factor in his/her behavior. In particular, the Inuit believed that crying was an indication that the infant wanted to have a particular name. And that often once named, the infant would stop crying. In addition, as the infant or child is a representative of their namesake, they are considered to generally know what they want or need. For example, when they are hungry or tired. Given this belief, it was also considered inappropriate to tell an infant or child what to do, as it was similar to commanding an elder or another adult, which violated social rule in Inuit culture. When an infant or child exhibited the same behavior as their namesake it was called \"atiqsuqtuq\". Children in the 21st century are still named for other family members but the name may be an English one rather than a traditional Inuit name.\n\nCompared with non-Inuit Canadians, Inuit have higher fertility rates, higher prevalence of births to mothers age 15–19 years, and worse birth outcomes. According to 2012 government statistics, the Inuit population has an infant mortality rate of 26.3 deaths per 1,000 live births, as compared to 4.1 deaths per 1,000 live births in the larger Canadian population. In addition, the Inuit experience a neonatal death rate of 9 deaths per 1,000 live births, versus 4 deaths per 1,000 live births in the Canadian population.\n\nBeginning in the late 1970s and 1980s, women in Nunavut and the other areas of Nunangat began a push to end the practice of being flown to the south of Canada (Douglas- Rankin Inlet). This was based on a widely held belief in the region that birth of Inuit children within the Inuit homeland would strengthen the family unit and increase social cohesion. A large anthropological study confirmed strong correlations between the social dissonance caused by birth evacuation and a spectrum of social ills facing Inuit society. Furthermore, Inuit women wanted to return to their traditional practice of woman-centred midwifery, using knowledge passed down through the generations to complement a community-centred birthing experience. In 2008, the government of Nunavut passed the Midwifery Professions Act. This far-reaching provision extended a full scope of practice regarding prenatal, birth, postpartum, and primary care to registered midwives. The act also permitted Nunavut Arctic College to open a midwifery-training program, the curriculum of which is required to include traditional Inuit midwifery knowledge.\n\nIn 1993, the first birth centre in Nunavut opened its doors in Rankin Inlet. Heralded as a first step in returning birth to the North, the Rankin Inlet Birth Centre was a fledgling operation for most of its first decade. Today, more than half of Nunavummiut women give birth in southern hospitals- mostly in Yellowknife, Churchill or Ottawa. Only about 20% of the women in the surrounding Kivalliq region of central Nunavut give birth in the centre and less than half (47%) of the births of Rankin Inlet itself take place there. Its marginal success has been linked to its relatively low capacity, having only two maternity care workers employed there at any one time- both of whom are almost always southern Canadian midwives there on short-term assignments. The birth centre has handled approximately 600 births since its opening. A University of Manitoba audit in 2008 found that the centre has provided consistently safe maternity care since its opening, with not one case of maternal mortality.\n\nA second birth centre is housed within the Qikiqtani Hospital in Iqaluit. The Qikiqtani birth centre handles the majority of births, which occur in Nunavut, about 400 per year. The centre, opened in 2007, houses four birthing suites and a full surgical backup should the woman need it. The centre is equipped to handle breech, VBAC, and other complicated vaginal births using a physician-led team as well as midwives. At eight percent, the centre's cesarean rate is the lowest of any hospital in country. The Qikitqtani birth centre has reduced the evacuation rate on Baffin Island considerably, and there is little need for low-risk women to leave the territory to give birth. The centre's intervention rate is lower than the national average and is considered a model for the rest of the territory.\n\nWhen the Inuit still lived in camps or as nomads, they had no special tomb sites, much less cemeteries. Before burial, the women of the camp washed the body of the deceased and adjusted the hair; on dead women they braided the hair starting at the forehead. Then they wrapped the body in a large blanket of caribou hide or wool and laid it down far out in the tundra, face up. They stacked cairns on top, to protect the body from being eaten by animals. Nevertheless, scattered human bones can be found throughout the tundra, testifying to the work of carnivores.\n\nSimilar burial customs have been found through the centuries. For example, Qilakitsoq mummies dating from 500 years ago show that the Thule people, ancestors of the present Inuit, wrapped and protected their dead the same way.\n\nThe Inuit believed the aurora borealis to be visible signals from the dead or the spirits of the dead. Some believed that whistling would bring the lights to earth where they would remove the whistlers head for use as a football. In some areas Inuit children feared the ghosts of those deceased long ago and often whistled or blew air against their hands, in order to \"blow away\" those supernatural beings. In other areas, such as eastern Greenland, the aurora were the spirts of dead children. In pre-missionary times it was usual to give a newborn child the name of a close relative who had died shortly before. This way, ancestors could experience a kind of return to a new life in the child. This custom has survived to this day, although the traditional animism religion has largely given way to Christianity.\n\nSince the move to the settlements, the dead are buried in cemeteries. All members of the community participate in requiems that last for hours, during which the towns appear deserted. Due to the frozen permafrost, burial sites are not deep, and are covered with rocks. Sometimes a blue plastic layer can be detected between the rocks. Here and there, a wooden box with a vitrified cover a few fading artificial flowers and other decorations can be seen. Crosses stand askew on the shifting permafrost. The inscriptions show that many of the dead are children, victims of accidents or natural disasters, and also suicides. Infrequently, there is a wooden hut outside of the town, where those that died during the winter are preserved in natural cold, until the warmer season permits their burial.\n\nGiven such changes in their way of life, keeping their own identity and recollection of history and ancestors proved to be an extraordinary challenge many Inuit could not meet. These changes led to alcohol and drug problems. The suicide rate of the Inuit rose four times as high as the one of the remaining population of Canada.\n\nIn the early 21st century the infant mortality rate is still high, about four times higher than the rest of Canada, and the lifespan relatively short, about 13 years less than the rest of the country. However, the Inuit population has grown considerably since the 1960s when there were about 12,000 and, as of the 2016 Canadian census, increasing to just over 65,025, distributed among some 70 settlements, some of which have a population of a few hundred only. They account for about 0.142% of the total population of Canada, and about 4% of the indigenous population, as of 2011. From 2006 to 2016, the Inuit population grew by 29.1% and the total Aboriginal population has grown by 42.5%—more than four times the growth rate of the\nnon-Aboriginal population over the same period. (2016 census)\n\nWithin a very short time, modern technology replaced methods and technologies that had been passed on for centuries. Firearms replaced lances and harpoons, snowmobiles, mainly Polaris, Ski-Doo and Yamaha took the place of dog sled teams (the name Ski-Doo is often used for the whole category, since Joseph-Armand Bombardier 1922 built the first snowmobile, Ski-Dog, which mutated to Ski-Doo by a typographical error). ATVs (all-terrain vehicles, quad-bikes) became widely accepted as a general means of transportation.\n\nThe Inuit have become consumers who make their living by fishing, hunting, trapping and production of artwork. They also perform wage labour, and often must be supported by additional social welfare. Government support is often the only source of income. The number of recipients is much higher than the average of Canada. Also, the share of employees in public service is 20 to 30 percent, compared to 7 percent for Canada. This is extremely high, and has been rising even higher since the creation of Nunavut. Nowadays only a few areas are left where traditional methods of hunting and fishing have been preserved in their original form.\n\nThe capitalist way of thinking in the south of Canada has been a large challenge for the Inuit. It was a drastic experience for the population of a homogeneous, that in an earning-focused, achievement-oriented society authority, power and wealth were defined in a very different way. Before, they were independent in their way of living, but now they saw themselves tied to the chains of a monetary system. Consequently, new patterns of behavior arose, which put enormous strain on family ties. The adjustment to totally different conditions of living, even more so in new administrative centres that were organized by Canadian public employees by the rules of an industrialized country, was understandably difficult for the Inuit. Many have not come to terms with the changes to this day; they do not feel part of either the modern culture nor of that of their ancestors.\n\nThe proselytizing by the Anglican Church and the Roman Catholic Church in the first half of the 20th century, which must be critically viewed in some respect, was also of fundamental significance for the cultural change of the Inuit. Although the Arctic nowadays is considered largely Christian, elements of Shamanism appear to persist fairly well at the subliminal level, side by side with Christian thought, despite its condemnation by the missionaries.\nThe adjustment to life in a modern industrialized country is easier for the young people who find new types of opportunities, but also all the problems that can be paraphrased by the keyword \"TV culture\". Compulsory education was introduced in the 1950s, replacing the traditional master-apprentice relationship between parents and children that did without reading and writing skills. Some Inuit were trained to be teachers and clergymen, but their numbers still were much too low. Basic education nowadays takes place in nearly all settlements. In Nunavut during the first three school years, the Inuit language, either Inuinnaqtun or Inuktitut, is the relevant language of instruction. In many schools of the Arctic, \"elders\", older residents who are recognized for their experience, are teaching the traditional knowledge, known as \"Inuit Qaujimajatuqangit\", about culture, customs and way of living from the pre-settlement time, during planned lectures. Despite all efforts, the number of dropout is generally rather high, because of lack of motivation, among other reasons.\nAs part if the Government of Canada's assimilation policy many Inuit children, along with First Nations, were sent to residential schools. Children were taken from their home communities in the summer and sent to a school in a centralized area where they would remain for an entire school year. These included Sir Alexander Mackenzie Day School in Inuvik which included the two residences, Stringer Hall for Anglicans and Grollier Hall for Catholics, and Chesterfield Inlet Indian Residential School which included the Turquetil residence. The year away from their homes caused multiple problems upon return. Children were not permitted to speak their native language while at school and thus had problems communicating to community members who spoke little or no English. At the same time the loss of traditional skills meant they were less able to occupy the roles that they would have normally taken up.\n\nLater in the 1970s schools were built in the communities but most did not go beyond grade 7/8. Therefore, this meant leaving the home town during the school year, which was very difficult for many, to attend high school. However, this was at the parents and childs choice rather than forced schooling. Because of this, there were only a few Inuit with higher education, since they would have to leave during the years of study. In the 21st century all Inuit communities in the Northwest Territories and Nunavut offer schooling up to grade 12. This has increased the graduation rate but it still below that of the rest of Canada.\n\nIn the NWT Aurora College and Arctic College in Nunavut offer education programs throughout the territories. These include the Nunavut Teacher Education Program which graduates primary, junior and high school teachers with a Bachelor of Education degree and the Akitsiraq Law School program. Some programs, such as general upgrading, are offered in the home community while others are only available in certain places.\n\nThere has been no lack of intensive effort to find ways for the Inuit into a largely self-designed future, and to help them with a recollection of their own values and of their personal identity. It was important in this context to convey a new role of men and women. In the past, the man was responsible for family life and survival, while the women in the camp were charged with the young. Now often both of them have to master new tasks, thereby skipping several stages of development, with this process taking a course different from what happened in the European cultural area. It is not seldom that the woman assumes the sole role of the breadwinner, while the man is unemployed.\n\nBig hopes were put into the establishment of cooperatives, today the Arctic Co-operatives Limited, that were to help convey to the Inuit the skills of creating added value, so they would take care of themselves again and at the same time preserve their traditional culture. These cooperatives, mostly managed by \"Qallunaat\" (non-Inuit), did in fact prove very successful, because they succeeded in connecting economic thinking with traditional activities and values not only theoretically.\n\nThe cooperatives developed activities in disparate areas. They were active in the provisioning of goods and services, such as trading with oil, gas, gasoline and construction materials, the organization of supermarkets with foodstuffs, clothing and technical goods, of hotels and restaurants, the construction of recreational and tourism facilities. On the regional level, the cooperatives ran commercial fur trade and fishing, as well as the production of downs and feathers.\nIn the area of culture, the cooperatives and similar associations were intensely devoted to fostering artistic skills, which were, and still are unusually pronounced among the Inuit. The production and trade of Inuit art, i.e. of artistic and crafted objects, mainly sculptures made from serpentine, soapstone and marble, and soon afterwards also of graphics (drawings, lithotomies, lithographs, erasures) and tapestry (for example hangings), yielded excellent economic and cultural successes.\n\nIn the course of the past 50 years this branch of the cooperatives reached an extraordinary importance for value added in the Inuit regions, and clearly ranks first, far ahead of trading hunting products: antlers, fur, or ivory, but overproduction is a growing problem. There is a similar problem with this type of art in Greenland, like the \"tupilaqs\" from East Greenland made from walrus ivory.\n\nIn 1965, the turnover of Inuit cooperatives with trade of artistic objects and true arts was still below 100,000 Canadian dollars, but two or three decades later it has risen to $5 million, at gross prices, respectively (turnover not registered is estimated at a few additional million dollars). Despite manifold attempts in expanding the areas of activity, real added value still occurs mainly in the consumer goods sector, and scarcely in the real branch of production.\n\nDuring a period of five thousand years, the Inuit groups have grown apart ethnically. However, the increasing integration into nations foreign to them that were extending into the Arctic made them realize after World War II that they could maintain their cultural identity only if they appeared united at the international level. Therefore, the Eskimo groups of Canada united with their relatives in Alaska and Greenland (after the dissolution of the Soviet Union also with the Siberian Chukchi) to the \"Pan-Eskimo Movement\". This movement is supported by the Inuit Circumpolar Council, that was founded in 1977 as the Inuit Circumpolar Conference after a lead time of four years and to which its protagonist Eben Hopson (North Slope Borough, Alaska) was invited with his vision of constituting a unified, independent Eskimo nation.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s a nationalistic trend could indeed be felt, and there was no lack of wishful thinking to achieve the dream of circumpolar unity. But in the reality of daily life, rational and last but not least fiscal thinking prevailed.\n\nWith all efforts to preserve and cultivate cultural values of the past, the Inuit also want the progress of the modern industrial society. They show concern about the endangering of the environment by technical processes associated with the exploitation of resources, but are also interested in a future of western standards. They have also recognized that they are much better able to influence their conditions of living to their own ideas, when they agree within regional bounds on the goals to be pursued.\n\nThe Canadian Inuit, just like the other indigenous peoples (First Nations and Métis people) of Canada, grew the demand for collective ethnic rights and a territory of their own, with a government composed of their kind, and Inuktitut as one of the official languages. On the federal level, the Inuit got the right to vote in 1962. The first Inuk to be elected Member of Parliament was Peter Ittinuar in 1979. In 1976, the organization \"Inuit Tapirisat\" (\"Inuit Brotherhood\"), now the \"Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami\" (\"Inuit United with Canada\"), for the first time demanded the creation of a separate territory in the northeast of Canada. After more than 15 years of negotiation between Inuit and the Federal and Territorial Governments, finally an agreement was reached, the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement, which determined that from April 1, 1999, the north of Canada should be composed of three territories: Yukon, Nunavut and the remaining Northwest Territories. Like the two other territories, Nunavut was placed under direct control of the Canadian federal government and received increasing administrative autonomy. The Inuit have substantial local rights of control. They participate in the execution of important administrative positions, including police, legal and social welfare offices. Inuktitut is official government language, besides English and French.\n\nAn accord, the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, between the Canadian federal government, the Province of Quebec and Inuit representatives resulted in the establishment of the Kativik Regional Government and gave a bigger political autonomy to the Nunavik region. As a result, all residents of the 14 Nunavik settlements elect their own representative in regional elections.\n\nAn important chapter of Canadian Arctic policy regarding development of the Inuit culture is reflected in the agreements settling Inuit land claims opposed to the Canadian state. The advancing exploitation of the Canadian Arctic and if its mineral resources led to ever more conflicts about land ownership and title between Inuit representatives and Federal Government. Land that is not under private ownership is considered as Federal land, but the Inuit claim large areas that they have inhabited and utilized for many centuries. The agreement reached in 1984 regarding land claims of the Inuvialuit (Inuit in the western Arctic) provided means to improve the situation of the indigenous residents of this region, by assuring of land to 2,500 Inuvialuit, as well as monetary compensation, funds for improving the social structure, hunting right, and more influence on dealing with the fauna, on natural and environmental protection.\n\nThe Nunavut Land Claims Agreement signed in 1993 with the Tunngavik Federation of Nunavut is the most comprehensive agreement ever reached in Canada. As a result, about 17,500 Inuit receive of land, monetary compensation, a share of the profits from exploiting the mineral resources, hunting rights and a larger voice in questions regarding land and environment.\n\nAlso in the north of the province of Quebec, land claims of Inuit groups were settled successfully. In addition, there are ongoing negotiations with the Association of Labrador Inuit, which represents about 3,800 Inuit living in the interior and on the eastern coast of Labrador, a part of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nThe Inuit place a high value upon self-determination. The governments of Nunavut, the Northwest Territories and Nunatsiavut do not have political parties, but operate as consensus governments. Difficult questions are common in judicature, where traditional Inuit concepts are opposed to the legal system of the Canadian state.\n\nIn general, the government of Nunavut sees one of its most important tasks to be the preservation and care of Inuit tradition and culture. Currently, it puts great effort into recording and archiving the oral accounts of \"elders\" about the time before the move of the Inuit into the settlements. It is high time for this, because the number of elders with this knowledge are dwindling.\n\nA special part of the centuries-old cultural heritage of the Inuit are their myths and legends, which had been passed exclusively by word of mouth, because the Inuit had no written language and consequently had no literary tradition. In the Inuit culture story telling had the function that in other cultures literature has. The oral recital of passed-on knowledge gave the Inuit families particularly a feeling of immediate togetherness. At the same time, narrating made a connection between past and present, because the essential statements had been passed from generation to generation and accepted as the truth, without reservations. Among the Inuit, there are even nowadays no authors in the strict sense: writers mainly produce reports, summaries and essays about traditional contexts, or their own experiences (\"non-fiction\"), in seldom cases poems (mostly anthems) or songs.\n\nAmong the best-known Inuit authors are the former Commissioner of Nunavut (the highest governmental representative of the territory), Peter Irniq (born 1947 on the Lyon Inlet, Kivalliq Region), the writer, poet, cartoonist and photographer Alootook Ipellie (born 1951 in a camp near Iqaluit, died 2007 in Ottawa), Michael Kusugak the children's author, and the former president of the Makivik Corporation and active author Zebedee Nungak (born 1951 in the south of Puvirnituq, Quebec).\n\nThe Inuit did not have a very distinct tradition of music. There were \"Aya-Yait\", songs used for passing experiences from generation to generation, and so called because of their refrain \"aya-ya\". In a musical sense, they were simply-structured compositions. The traditional \"throat singing\" as well as the ritual drum dance by no means claim to be artistic compositions, but they were used for entertainment and for mythological-religious customs. The Inuit first heard European melodies by listening to the whalers. With those, they saw European instruments for the first time, the fiddle and the accordion, both of which have remained popular among the Inuit to this day. They also learned the square dance from the whalers. For the past twenty years, a kind of pop music is catching on in the Arctic, which the Inuit adopted from the south and then modified their own way. Today Susan Aglukark (born in 1967 in Churchill, Manitoba, and grew up in Arviat) is perhaps the most popular Inuit singer. Other singers include Tagaq, Charlie Panigoniak and Lucie Idlout.\n\nContemporary Inuit art and handicrafts did not come about before the late 1950s as important resources for added value. soapstone sculptures, artistic drawings, hangings and tapestries (the latter mainly in Arviat, Baker Lake and Pangnirtung), attire, ceramics and dolls are providing a basic livelihood to a large number of Inuit artists of all ages today, just like hunting and fishing.\n\nIt is extremely important for the territorial government of Nunavut to look at ways to clearly rise the national product, which also means to conciliate the Inuit's deeply rooted tradition with the challenges of modern life. Hunting, trapping and fishing essentially serve their subsistence and by far do not contribute enough added value, as would be needed. In addition, the trade with more significant products gained from these activities, like seal furs, or ivory from narwhal or walrus, is subject to international restrictions. The revenue from artistic or handicraft work, although a significant contribution to added value, provides a sufficient livelihood to only a few, particularly because of the large family sizes that must be supported. This branch of economic activity by its nature can secure the future of only a limited number. The growth of tourism is also limited. It is difficult to secure sufficient enrollment for group tours to the Arctic, and customized tours do not bring much money to the area. Cruises contribute more to added value than other types of tours.\n\nGiven all of the above, the central task of the territorial leadership is the conciliation of tradition and modern life. Whether the exemplary Nunavut model of self-determination will be successful, finally depends on the question if there will be trained Inuit in sufficient numbers in the foreseeable future who will be able to provide leadership.\n\nThe backlog of education and training is still immense. Big opportunities will open for the Inuit to maintain their traditional culture and still live up to the claim of being members of a nation that embraces diverse cultures within a modern industrial country, but only if those responsible for Nunavut succeed in training executives in sufficient numbers for the immense tasks that are the consequence of creating a self-governed territory.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55449646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55449646", "title": "Johann Büssow", "text": "Johann Büssow\n\nJohann Buessow (born 1973) is a historian of the modern Middle East. He is professor of Middle Eastern Studies at the Ruhr University Bochum. \nJohann Buessow studied political science, Islamic studies and Jewish studies. He has taught five years at Free University of Berlin, where he also obtained a PhD in Middle Eastern Studies in 2008. Later he has worked as a research associate at the German Orient-Institut in Beirut, Lebanon and at the Research Centre ‘Difference and Integration’ (SFB 586) at the University of Halle-Wittenberg, Germany. From 2013 to 2018 he had been professor of Islamic History and Culture at the University of Tübingen. \n\nJohann Buessow is section editor for the history of the Arab world from 1500 to the present of the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam Three \"(Brill, Leiden) and co-editor of the book series 'Studien zur Geschichte und Zeitgeschichte Westasiens und Nordafrikas' (LIT Verlag, Berlin u.a.).\n\nJohann Buessow’s research focuses on the social and political history of the modern Middle East and intellectual history in the modern Islamic world since the eighteenth century.\n\nTogether with a team of historians around Yuval Ben-Bassat (Haifa) and Khaled Safi (Gaza) he is currently working on Gaza and its region during the late Ottoman period. With the historian Stefan Rohdewald (Gießen) he co-directs a research project on Palestine as a region of migration during the transition from late Ottoman to British Mandatory rule, in the framework of the research cluster \"Transottomanica\". With Astrid Meier (Beirut), he is preparing a book-length study with the tentative title \"Bedouin Syria: The Arid Lands of the Middle East, 1516–2011\". Together with several colleagues from Tübingen, he is conducting an interdisciplinary research project on the history of oasis towns in Oman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22387067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22387067", "title": "John Chamberlain (journalist)", "text": "John Chamberlain (journalist)\n\nJohn Rensselaer Chamberlain (October 28, 1903 – April 9, 1995) was an American journalist, business and economic historian, syndicated columnist and literary critic. He was dubbed \"one of America’s most trusted book reviewers\" by the libertarian magazine \"The Freeman\".\n\nBorn in New Haven, Connecticut in 1903, John Chamberlain graduated from Yale University in 1925, where he was chairman of the campus humor magazine \"The Yale Record\".\n\nHe began his career in journalism at the \"New York Times\" in 1926, serving there as both an editor and book reviewer during the 1930s. Later, he worked on the staff at \"Scribner's\" and \"Harper's\" magazines. Serving on the editorial staffs of \"Fortune\" (1936–1941) and \"Life\" (1941–1950), for a time he wrote the editorials for \"Life\" under the direction of Henry Luce, the founder of Time, Inc.\n\nChamberlain was a member of the Dewey Commission and a contributor to \"Not Guilty: the Report of the Commission of Inquiry into the Charges Made Against Leon Trotsky in the Moscow Trials\" (1938) by John Dewey. For most of this period, Chamberlain was, in his own words, \"a New York literary liberal\" involved in political causes of the Left.\n\nHe also taught journalism at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, where his students included the noted journalists Marguerite Higgins, Elie Abel and Edith Efron.\n\nIn 1939, Chamberlain was among the \"editorial sponsors\" of the Writer's Anti-War Bureau that was formed by an informal group of journalists and publicists under the leadership of America First Committee publicity director Sidney Hertzberg. The Bureau publicized a weekly newssheet entitled \"Uncensored\", which worked to analyze the news, expose the propaganda and hidden biases of those who advocated for foreign intervention. The newssheet appeared weekly from October 7, 1939 until its final issue in December 7, 1941.\n\nIn the early 1940s, Chamberlain moved to the intellectual Right, along with friends such as former communists Whittaker Chambers and John Dos Passos, although Chamberlain was never himself a communist. Influenced by Albert Jay Nock, he credits the writers Ayn Rand, Isabel Paterson and Rose Wilder Lane with his final \"conversion\" to what he called \"an older American philosophy\" of libertarian and conservative ideas. Along with his friends Henry Hazlitt and Max Eastman, he helped to promote the work of the Austrian economist F. A. Hayek, \"The Road to Serfdom\", writing the \"Foreword\" to the first American edition of the book in 1944.\n\nIn 1946, Leonard Read of the Foundation for Economic Education established a free market magazine named \"The Freeman\", reviving the name of a publication which had been edited by Albert J. Nock (1920–1924). Its first editors included Chamberlain, Hazlitt and Suzanne La Follette, and its contributors during Chamberlain's tenure there included James Burnham, John Dos Passos, Max Eastman, Frank Meyer, Raymond Moley, Morrie Ryskind, and the Austrian School economists Ludwig von Mises and F. A. Hayek. He joined the neoliberal Mont Pelerin Society during this period. After stepping down as editor of \"The Freeman\", Chamberlain continued his regular column for the periodical, \"A Reviewer’s Notebook.\"\n\nFrom 1950 to 1960, he was an editorial writer for \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nWilliam F. Buckley, Jr., credited Chamberlain with \"changing the course of his life\" by writing the \"Introduction\" to Buckley's first book, \"God and Man at Yale\". Later, Chamberlain became a lifelong contributing editor for Buckley's magazine, \"National Review\", from its founding until his death. He still occasionally differed from Buckley; for example, he praised \"Atlas Shrugged\" by Ayn Rand.\n\nFor twenty-five years, he wrote a syndicated column for King Features which appeared in newspapers across the US.\n\nAfter his first wife died in 1954, he married Ernestine Stodelle, who had previously been married to the Russian theatrical director Theodore Komisarjevsky.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "816381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=816381", "title": "Jonathan Spence", "text": "Jonathan Spence\n\nJonathan Dermot Spence (born 11 August 1936) is a British-born American historian and public intellectual specialising in Chinese history. He was Sterling Professor of History at Yale University from 1993 to 2008. His most widely read book is \"The Search for Modern China\", a survey of the last several hundred years of Chinese history based on his popular course at Yale. A prolific author, reviewer, and essayist, he has published more than a dozen books on China. He retired from Yale in 2008.\n\nSpence's major interest is modern China, especially the Qing Dynasty, and relations between China and the West. Spence frequently uses biographies to examine cultural and political history. Another common theme is the efforts of both Westerners and Chinese \"to change China,\" and how such efforts were frustrated.\n\nSpence was educated at Winchester College and at Clare College, Cambridge. He received his BA in history from Cambridge in 1959. He went to Yale on a Clare-Mellon Fellowship to study the history and culture of China, receiving an MA and then a PhD in 1965, when he won the John Addison Porter Prize. As part of his graduate training, he spent a year in Australia to study under Fang Chao-ying and Tu Lien-che, pre-eminent scholars of the Qing dynasty.\n\nWidely recognised as a leading scholar of Chinese history, Spence was president of the American Historical Association for the 2004–2005 term. While his primary focus has been on Qing dynasty China, he has also written a biography of Mao Zedong and \"The Gate of Heavenly Peace\", a study of twentieth-century intellectuals and their relation to revolution. Spence taught a popular undergraduate class at Yale on the history of modern China, which formed the basis for his text \"The Search for Modern China\", whose dedication is \"For My Students.\"\n\nHis name in Chinese was chosen to reflect his love of history and admiration for the historian Sima Qian. His name in Chinese is 史景遷/Shǐ Jǐngqiān. He chose the family name 史/Shǐ (literally \"history\") and personal name 景遷/Jǐngqiān where 景/Jǐng means admire (景仰) and 遷/Qiān was taken from the personal name of Sima Qian (司馬遷).\n\nSpence has received eight honorary degrees in the United States as well as from the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and (in 2003) from Oxford University. He was invited to become a visiting professor at Peking University and an honorary professor at Nanjing University. He was named Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George, and, in 2006, he was elected an Honorary Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge.\n\nHe received the William C. DeVane Medal of the Yale Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa (1952); a Guggenheim Fellowship (1979); the Los Angeles Times History Prize (1982), and the Vursel Prize of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters (1983). He was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (1985), named a MacArthur Fellow (1988), appointed to the Council of Scholars of the Library of Congress (1988), elected a member of the American Philosophical Society (1993), and named a corresponding fellow of the British Academy (1997).\n\nIn May and June 2008, he gave the 60th anniversary Reith Lectures, which were broadcast on BBC Radio 4.\n\nIn 2010, Spence was appointed to deliver the annual Jefferson Lecture at the Library of Congress, the US federal government's highest honour for achievement in the humanities.\n\nBorn in Surrey, England, Spence became an American citizen in 2000. He lives in West Haven with his wife, Annping Chin (a senior lecturer in history at Yale who got her PhD in classical Chinese philosophy at Columbia). He has two sons from a previous marriage (1962–1993) to Helen Alexander, Colin and Ian Spence, and two stepchildren, Yar Woo and Mei Chin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45436045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45436045", "title": "Josef Pekař", "text": "Josef Pekař\n\nJosef Pekař (April 12, 1870 Malý Rohozec at Turnov – January 23, 1937 Prague) was a prominent Czech historian of the turn of 19th and 20th century, professor and rector of Charles University in Prague.\n\nAfter graduating at high school in Mladá Boleslav, which now bears his name, Pekař studied history in Prague. He started the career of historian already during studies, when his article, published in 1890 in Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk's magazine \"Athenaeum\", proved by historical findings, that so called \"Manuscript of Králův Dvůr\" (Rukopis královédvorský), allegedly from the 13th century, whose authenticity has long led disputes in the Czech society, is a counterfeit. Pekař graduated in 1893 by the work \"Nominantions of the King Ottokar II for the German throne\" about personal struggle of Přemysl Ottokar II for the imperial throne in the years 1272–1273.\n\nAfter studies, Pekař spent one year at universities in Erlangen and Berlin, then, he taught for shorter time at the secondary school in Mladá Boleslav and Prague. In 1895, he became the founder of \"Czech historical magazine\", which lead after for thirty years. In 1897, he wrote \"The History of the Wallenstein conspiracy (1630–1634)\" and the same year, he declined sharply an anti-Czech article of German historian Theodor Mommsen, proving the importance of Czech culture for Europe; his answer was published again several times and translated into many languages. From that time, Pekař has become well recognized authority among central European historians. In 1901, Pekař was appointed professor of Charles university in Prague.\n\nIn 1903, in the work \"The Oldest Czech Chronicle\", Pekař proved, that so called \"Kristián's legend\" (Latin writings about the origins of Christianity in the Czech lands and the first Czech saints, Saint Ludmila and Saint Wenceslas), which origin was placed in the 13th century by Josef Dobrovský comes really already from the 10th century (written probably before 994).\n\nIn the years 1909 and 1911, he published \"The Book about Kost (Kniha o Kosti)\", a precise description of the life of aristocracy during 30 years war and about the situation of tributaries in 17th and 18th century. His emphasis of the details of common life and economic circumstances was completely new and outrun that time. The following work was \"Czech cadasters 1654–1789\" from 1915, in which Pekař demonstrated gradual of centralization in Austrian empire.\n\nIn 1912, Pekař wrote and published a brochure \"Masaryk's Czech philosophy\". In this book, he defended himself and the pozitivistic school of Jaroslav Goll against the attacks of pro-Masaryk Czech writer, historian and politician Jan Herben and criticised Masaryk's historiographic methods, rejecting above all the claim, that the meaning of Czech history consisted of the religious idea of humanity. Thus, the long-term dispute among historians over this topic began.\n\nAfter the end od World War I and the formation of Czechoslovakia, Pekař wrote \"Czechoslovak history\" (published 1921), a textbook, which was used in high schools for many years. He also wrote about the causes of the conflict in the book \"World War\", published in the same year. In response to post-war anti-Catholic tendencies in the society, he started to apologize the Czech baroque period and the role of aristocracy at that time, which was usually considered a dark period of the Czech nation and the germanization of the Czechs. These themes were discussed in his works \"Three chapters from the fight for Saint John of Nepomuk\" (Tři kapitoly o sv. Janu Nepomuckém) and \"White Mountain\" (Bílá Hora) from 1921, and \"Fallacies and dangers of the holding reform\" (Omyly a nebezpečí pozemkové reformy) published in 1923.\n\nIn his four-volume work \"Žižka and his times\" (1928–1934), Pekař rated Hussite's chieftain John Žižka from Trocnov rather as a warrior and a religious fanatic, contesting transnational significance of hussitism and presented it as a movement of genuinely medieval character with tragic consequences in Czech history. The book provoked sharp reactions, because that movement was usually hailed as the struggle for national and religious freedom. Pekař answered them with a series of articles, which were later published together as his best known book \"About the meaning of the Czech history\".\n\nIn 1931–1932, he was elected Rector of Charles University. In inaugural speech, he emphasized his national-conservative views and the need the periodization of Czech history should be based on general historical epochs, similarly to art history.\n\nHis contribution to the scientific discipline of history has been awarded by the membership in the Czech Academy of Sciences and Arts. He was a member of the Czech Royal society of Sciences.\n\nThe basic principle of Pekař's conception was the necessity to understand historical epoch from itself, thus, to cognize and feel its spirit. According to him, historiography should have scientific foundations, but the contribution of historian should consist of understanding and faithful description of ancient times. \"Historiography is not an exact science, a sober autopsy of a matter, but the science exploring life of individual people in its complexity\". That's why a historian cannot coolly stay to be a disinterested observer - he has to take his own position to the past. This Pekař's conception is no longer to be considered \"positivism\", exceeding it by going beyond historical facts, which were obtained from historical sources. Therefore, historical events are interpreted consistently in the contemporary context. He - as a conscientious historian - emphasized the heterogeneity of ideas of different eras (\"The events must always be viewed through the eyes of then people\")\n\nPekař was a conservative patriot, rejecting almost mythological deification of some historical events, which in his opinion had rather negative consequencies (Hussite wars, etc.). He was convinced about substantial negative impact of religious conflicts on Czech history and many times urged Czech patriotism to get rid of them. He was a strong opponent of historical philosophy of František Palacký and T.G.Masaryk. As a historian, he reproached Masaryk for putting too much emphasis on the religious reformist significance of Czech history, while he himself stressed the aspect of nationality. In the beginning, he considered national element as fundamental and motive, later, he spoke about complex concept of Czech history, putting it inside wider European context, being aware of complicacy and relativity of historical events. He respected the rights of the German population living within Czech territory, but he strongly opposed an historical interpretation of Czech-German relations from a \"Greater German\" perspective. He also appreciated the role of foreign, western European factors in Czech history. In his view, the history of a nation cannot emerge from a single foundation, as Masaryk claimed, but is formed out of the countless layers produced by cultural, economic and political changes.\n\n\"Josef Pekař and his intense personality reminds us that we can never uncover history completely, the totality that resides in details, the power of history that shapes the present.\" \n\n\nIn Czech:\n"}
{"id": "1520136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1520136", "title": "Lev Nussimbaum", "text": "Lev Nussimbaum\n\nLev Nussimbaum (Kiev, October 17, 1905 – Positano, August 27, 1942), who wrote under the pen names Essad Bey and Kurban Said, was a writer and journalist, born in Kiev to a Jewish family. He lived with them during his childhood in Baku before fleeing the Bolsheviks in 1920 at the age of 14. In 1922, while living in Germany, he obtained a certificate claiming that he had converted to Islam in the presence of the imam of the Turkish embassy in Berlin. He created a niche for himself in the competitive European literary world by writing about topics that Westerners, in general, knew little about - the Caucasus, Russian Empire, Bolshevik Revolution newly discovered oil, and Islam. He wrote under the name of Essad Bey in German.\n\nHistorians and literary critics, who knew these subjects well, discredited Essad Bey as a reliable source. Today, historians disregard books published under his name and rarely quote him, though the topics Essad Bey chose to write about are still critically relevant. The fact that Essad Bey was so prolific calls into question the authorship of these books and whether Essad Bey was primarily operating as a broker and doctoring manuscripts and marketing them under his name, which by then had become famous. In 1934, his agent warned him to slow down and take a year off between books so that he would not appear to be so prolific. That year no books were published in German - only two novellas in Polish.\n\nLev Nussimbaum was born in October 1905. He claimed he was born in a train Documents in the Kiev State Archives and the Kiev Synagogue state that Lev Nussimbaum was born in Kiev. Nussimbaum's birth was originally registered in the Kyiv Synagogue.\n\nHis father, Abraam Leybusovich Nussimbaum, was a Jew from Tiflis, in present-day Georgia, born in 1875. He later migrated to Baku and invested in oil. His mother Berta Basya Davidovna Slutzkin Nussimbaum, according to her marriage certificate, was a Jew from Belarus. She committed suicide on February 16, 1911 in Baku when Nussimbaum was five years old. Apparently, she had embraced left-wing politics and was possibly involved in the underground Communist movement. Nussimbaum's father hired Alice Schulte, a woman of German ethnicity, to be his son's governess.\nIn 1918, Lev and his father fled Baku because of the massacres that were taking place in the streets between different political forces. According to Essad Bey's first book, \"Blood and Oil in the Orient,\" which historians do not consider to be very reliable, the two travelled through Turkestan and Persia. But researchers have found no record of this adventurous journey except in Nussimbaum's own writings. Nussimbaum and his father returned to Baku but when the Bolsheviks took Baku in the spring of 1920, they fled to Georgia. They stayed there until the Bolsheviks took Tiflis and Batumi.\n\nLev Nussimbaum, as Essad Bey, wrote his first book \"Oel und Blut im Orient\" (\"Blood and Oil in the Orient\") in German in 1929. Although he claims that his account was autobiographical, historians in Azerbaijan and Georgia refute the possibility, as there are many major factual errors in the historical description. Essad Bey describes his delight when, aged 14, he and his father left Azerbaijan. In the final passage of the book, he writes: \"At that moment, Europe began for me. The Old East was dead.\"\n\nThey purportedly boarded a ship to Istanbul, to where thousands of refugees had fled. Later, Nussimbaum eventually settled in Berlin (1921–1933), where he enrolled simultaneously in high school and in Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität. He did not graduate from either, but told people that he had a Cand. Phil.\n\nIn 1926, he began writing under the pen name of Essad Bey for the literary journal \"Die literarische Welt\" (The Literary World). At least 120 articles were published under his name. By the early 1930s, Essad Bey had become a popular author throughout Western Europe, writing mainly about contemporary historical and political issues.\n\nPolitically, Bey was a monarchist. In 1931, he joined the \"German-Russian League Against Bolshevism\", the members of which, Daniel Lazare remarks, \"for the most part either were Nazis or soon would be\". He also joined the Social Monarchist Party, which advocated restoration of Germany's Hohenzollern dynasty. He also had connections to the pre-fascistic Young Russian movement, headed by Alexander Kazembek.\n\nIn 1932, Essad Bey married Erika Loewendahl, daughter of shoe magnate Walter Loewendahl. The marriage failed, ending in scandal. Erika ran off in 1935 with Nussimbaum's colleague René Fülöp-Miller. Erika's parents, who were wealthy, succeeded in getting the marriage to Lev Nussimbaum/ Essad Bey annulled in 1937.\n\nIn 1938, when the Nazi Germany annexed Austria, Nussimbaum fled to Italy and settled in the seacoast town of Positano. He died there of a rare blood disorder which causes gangrene of the extremities. This was most likely Buerger's disease, which is known to afflict Ashkenazi male Jews, rather than Raynaud's Disease, which is more prevalent in women. It is highly likely that Essad Bey denied his Jewish ancestry to doctors who were treating him, which led to the misdiagnosis of Raynaud's instead of Buerger's. Little was known in the early 1940s about Buerger's disease, especially that the disease could be reversed if the patient stopped smoking. Essad Bey, who was known to be a heavy smoker, died a painful death at the age of 37.\n\nNussimbaum had a romantic view of Islam, seeing it as part of the grand cultural heritage of \"the East\" (to which he felt connected by his Jewish heritage) and a bulwark against the evils of Western modernity and Bolshevism. Writing about his childhood in Azerbaijan, he notes the emotional response he had to looking at the old palaces in Baku: \n\nI saw the broad expanse of the sandy Arabian desert, I saw the horsemen, their snow-white burnooses billowing in the wind, I saw the flocks of prophets praying towards Mecca and I wanted to be one with this wall, one with this desert, one with this incomprehensible, intricate script, one with the entire Islamic Orient, which in our Baku had been so ceremoniously carried to the grave, to the victorious drumbeats of European culture... Throughout my entire childhood, I dreamed of the Arabic edifices every night... I do know that it was the most powerful, most formative feeling of my life.\n\nConfusion surrounds the details of Essad Bey's conversion to Islam. There are at least three accounts that attempt to explain his alleged conversion:\n\n(1) That when Essad Bey was 17 years old, he officially obtained a certificate as \"document of proof\" in a declaration to Imam Hafiz Shuku (1871-1924) of the former Ottoman Embassy in Berlin on August 13, 1922.\n\n(2) However, later accounts circulated that Essad Bey did not convert to Islam but simply reclaimed his religious identity since he had been born a Muslim.\n\n(3) That Essad Bey converted to Islam along with his family when he was eight years old.\n\nIn 1924 in Berlin Nussimbaum helped found an Islamic student group Islamia, where he met other Muslims: Arabs, Turks, Iranians, Afghans and Indians, as well as converts like himself. They \"spoke out about the wretched situation of Muslims in the colonial world.\" However, some Muslims objected to the way Nussimbaum depicted Islam in his writings, accusing him of Orientalism and of not being a \"real\" Muslim. In 1930, Mohammed Hoffman, a member of Islamia and himself a convert to Islam, accused Nussmbaum of trying \"to pass for a born Muslim\" and suggesting that his conversion was merely a ploy. As a result of this and similar accusations, Nussimbaum stopped attending Islamia meetings; however, he never renounced Islam or distanced himself from it. In 1934 the \"New York Herald Tribune\" ran a profile of \"Essad Bey\" which described him as an irreverent Muslim who \"carries no prayer rug; he fails to salute Mecca when he prays... eats pigs and drinks wine; yet when he came to be married in Berlin he refused to abjure his creed.\"\n\nArmin Wegner, a contemporary of Essad Bey who knew him in his last years in Positano, Italy, observed that Bey \"kept up the comedy of being Muslim to the end.\" \n\nA scathing review of Essad Bey's biography \"Mohammed\" expressed doubt that the author \"had ever read the Quran, either in the original or in translation.\" It claimed: \"Essad Bey's Mohammed is a potpourri of bad history, distorted facts and naive interpretations. It should never have been written... In fact, I am impelled to go still further and state that there is hardly a page in this 'biography' which is free from error.\" \n\nDespite Nussimbaum's being an ethnic Jew, his monarchist and anti-Bolshevik politics were such that, before his origins were discovered, the Nazi propaganda ministry included his works on their list of \"excellent books for German minds\". Among the works credited to him are early biographies of Lenin, Stalin and Czar Nicholas II, Mohammed, the Prophet; and Reza Shah of Iran. All these \"biographies\" were allegedly written between 1932 and 1936. At one point, Nussimbaum was requested to write an official biography of Benito Mussolini. Essad Bey's works, many of which he claimed were biographies, are discredited by historians and literary critics and rarely referenced today except to note how unreliable they are.\n\nTom Reiss attributes the 1937 novel \"\", published under the pseudonym Kurban Said, to Lev Nussimbaum. Reiss, in his biography \"The Orientalist\" (about Nussimbaum), argues that Said was Nussimbaum's pseudonym, and the work was written directly by Nussimbaum.\n\nReiss also debunks claims made by the heirs of Austrian baroness Elfriede Ehrenfels, who claimed co-authorship. Reiss argues that she registered the book with German authorities in Austria at the time (after 1938); this was because Nussimbaum could not have received money for publishing the book in Germany due to his Jewish ethnicity.\n\nOther critics, however, have demonstrated that the book is partially plagiarized . They suggest that it was adapted by Nussimbaum from a hypothetical earlier manuscript. A 2011 issue of \"Azerbaijan International\" re-opened the issue of the authorship of \"Ali and Nino\". Its primary author, Betty Blair, states that \"we are convinced\" that the book was written mostly by Azerbaijani author Yusif Vazir Chamanzaminli, though they also offer evidence that Nussimbaum wrote at least some portions of the book.\nTheir arguments include the claims that the folkloric and legendary passages include exact \"cut and paste\" passages that Nussimbaum published in his earlier works, over and over again, as was his practice. They also note that Nussimbaum left the Caucasus when he was only 14 years old and that he boasted that he was a Monarchist, although the novel expresses the views of someone who sought the independence of Azerbaijan. Reiss dismissed the claim that Chamanzaminli was the author behind the Said pseudonym, claiming that he looked at one of Chamanzaminli's novellas and found him to be a (Muslim communalist) nationalist. Betty Blair of \"Azerbaijan International\" argues, in contrast, that \"Ali and Nino\" is a \"nationalist\" book in a broader, non-communalist sense, since the novel is essentially about Azerbaijan's independence.\n\nTamar Injia published a book entitled \"Ali and Nino – Literary Robbery!\", showing that substantial portions of the book were \"stolen\" from the book \"The Snake's Skin\" by Georgian author Grigol Robakidze. Injia analyzed the two books, and found a number of similar and identical passages, and concluded that \"Kurban Said\" (whose real life identity she does not attempt to determine) deliberately copied passages from Robakidze's earlier novel.\n\n\nAs discussed above, there is a dispute over whether or not Lev Nussimbaum is the core author behind works written under the pseudonym Kurban Said. The works written under this name include the following:\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "18911008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18911008", "title": "Nollaig Ó Gadhra", "text": "Nollaig Ó Gadhra\n\nNollaig Ó Gadhra (; 16 December 1943 – 13 August 2008) was an Irish-language activist, journalist and historian in Ireland. He was president of Conradh na Gaeilge from 2004 to 2005. He was also a founding member of Teilifís na Gaeilge.\n\nÓ Gadhra was born on a family farm in Feenagh, County Limerick in 1943. His parents had returned to Ireland from the United States. He attended the Feenagh primary school before enrolling at the Scoil Mhuire secondary school in Dromcollogher and De La Salle residential school in Waterford.\n\nÓ Gadhra studied at University College Cork, where he graduated with a bachelor's degree in Irish and History in 1966. He also earned a teaching diploma from UCC as well.\n\nÓ Gadhra relocated to Dublin following his graduation where he began reporting as a journalist for both broadcast and print media. He began working for as a reporter for the Irish language publication, \"Inniu\" in 1966. He also began working as a presenter and television producer at RTÉ's Irish language current affairs division. He moved to the United States for a few years, settling in Boston, where he briefly attended Harvard University.\n\nHe took a position as an information officer with Gaeltarra Éireann from 1970 until 1972. He then left and became a publicity manager for Ireland West Tourism, based in Galway, until 1974. He and his family relocated from Dublin to County Galway during this time period.\n\nIn 1974, Ó Gadhra became a lecturer of journalism, Irish language, communications, European studies and modern history at Galway Regional Technical College (now Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology. He continued to lecture at GMIT for the remainder of his career.\n\nHe was a founding member of Teilifís na Gaeilge in 1994, an Irish-language television station now known as TG4. He contributed to news and current affairs programs on TG4, including \"Seacht Lá\". His daughter also had a stint as a presenter in early 2018.p Ó Gadhra also continued to work as a correspondent for newspapers and magazines throughout Ireland including the \"Limerick Leader\".\n\nHe authored several important academic works, including biographies of Edmund Ignatius Rice, Mahatma Gandhi, Mayor of Chicago Richard J. Daley and John Boyle O'Reilly, many of which were written in Irish. Ó Gadhra's Irish-language biography of Richard Daley is considered to be one of the most thorough and comprehensive biographies ever written in the language, according to his successor as president of Conradh na Gaeilge, Daithí Mac Carthaigh. He also wrote a landmark book on the First Dáil which is regarded by some as an authoritative history on the subject.\n\nFor years, he was one of the only authors who contributed works to Irish language literary genre. Much of his journalistic writings, short stories, poems and books were written exclusively in Irish, before later being translated into English.\n\nSadly Ó Gadhra died before his time on 13 August 2008, at the age of 64 at his home in Furbo, in Connemara. He had reportedly been ill for some time before his death. It is said he struggled for many years but didn't give up. His funeral mass was held at Furbo Parish Church. He was survived by his wife, Mairín, three children, Mairin, Daithí and Siobhán and three grandchildren the eldest of which was only a year old. His wife is now a grandmother to six children.\n\nTaoiseach Brian Cowen paid tribute to Ó Gadhra saying, \"He was a proud Irishman who always stood strong on behalf of Irish culture. He was also an eminent historian who contributed much to our understanding of modern Ireland.\" Minister for Community, Rural and Gaeltacht Affairs Éamon Ó Cuív also reacted, \"I had known Nollaig for many years, was in regular contact with him. He was always ready to share his knowledge and his ideas.\"\n\nHe is remembered as a proud Irish-man an intelligent individual and someone who could persuade anyone to his point of view.\n\nA book was launched in his memory in late 2017 by his eldest daughter, it is a series of short stories submitted by some of the many people that had vibrant and interesting memories, relationships and conversations with him.\n"}
{"id": "41362526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41362526", "title": "Ole Andreas Øverland", "text": "Ole Andreas Øverland\n\nOle Andreas Øverland (17 March 1855 – 20 June 1911) was a Norwegian historian, writer and illustrator. He was characterized by Terje Bratberg as \"one of the most prolific historians Norway has produced\". He is best known for writing and illustrating two editions of a history of Norway; \"Illustreret Norges Historie\" (published by Folkebladet, Kristiania)\nØverland was born in Trondhjem (now Trondheim), Norway. He was the son of Ole Andreas Øverland (1819-1871) and his wife Gjertine Birgitte Moe (1818-1881). He graduated from Trondheim Cathedral School in 1873. Two years later he was awarded his philosophicum. He worked for a few years as a teacher before moving to Christiania (now Oslo) in 1878. He worked at the National Archives of Norway (\"Riksarkivet\") until 1885. In 1880 he was awarded a Peter Andreas Munch scholarship (\"P. A. Munchs legat\").\nHe then began writing what would become the first edition of his \"Illustreret Norges Historie\", which was published in five volumes from 1885 to 1895. He was at the same time developing a 12-volume edition of the work, finishing in 1898. In between working on this major work which received funding from Stortinget, he also wrote a number of other, smaller studies, biographies, and reviews. He produced a variety of historical works and published several textbooks. He was made a Government scholar (\"statsstipendiat\") in 1898. \n\n"}
{"id": "42537874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42537874", "title": "One Woman's War: Da (Mother)", "text": "One Woman's War: Da (Mother)\n\nOne Woman's War: Da (Mother) () is a memoir by Seyyedeh Zahra Hosseini detailing her experiences during the Iran–Iraq War as recorded by Seyedeh Azam Hosseini (no relation). The memoir was recorded through thousands of hours of conversation between Zahra Hosseini and Azam Hosseini, while parts of the book are autobiography by the narrator. The title, \"Da\", means \"mother\" in Kurdish and Luri, and was meant to memorialize the role of Iranian mothers during the Iran–Iraq War.\n\nThe book won the 2009 Jalal Al-e Ahmad Literary Award in the \"Documentation and historiography\" category, Iran's most lucrative literary award. undergone more than 140 reprints in three years and became the biggest best seller in the shortest period as the publishers say.\n\n\"One Woman's War: Da (Mother)\" focuses on Zahra Hosseini's life in Basra and Khorramshahr. The book consists of three parts with the years of city under siege making the core part of this memoir. The first part details Hosseini's childhood in Iraq, her family's migration to Iran due to pressure from the Ba'ath regime, and her first years in Iran. The second part details Hosseini's activities in nursing injured fighters, helping in the delivery of supplies to the front line, preparing the corpses of fighters for burial, and participating in firefights. The final part details Hosseini's recovery from a shrapnel injury and her married life.\n\nSeyyedeh Zahra Hosseini is an Iranian Kurd who was born in Iraq in 1963. Her parents came to Iran when she was a child and lived in Khorramshahr and the father of the family was hired by the municipality. She was the second child of six, and stopped going to school after she finished fifth grade. When the war broke out Hosseini aided the war effort in various roles such as cemetery work. She also engaged in firefights and received a dangerous shrapnel wound near her spine. The injury forced her to leave the battlefield and spend a month in hospital.\n\nThe book is the result of thousands of hours of oral history narration by Seyyedeh Zahra Hosseini dictated to Azam Hosseini. Beside the oral history, the book also contains autobigraphy by the narrator.\n\nThe book was first published in Persian by Sureye Mehr Publication Company in 2008, and was a bestseller at the Tehran 23rd International Book Fair and \"the biggest seller in the shortest period in Iranian publishing history\" which has had more than 140 reprints in three years, according to the publishers. In 2014, the book was translated from Persian to English by Paul Sprachman, a professor at Rutgers University, and published by Mazda Publishers. Hosseini's memoir is being translated into Urdu and Turkish. A Spanish translation was announced in October 2014.\n\nThe book won the 2009 Jalal Al-e Ahmad Literary Award in the \"Documentation and historiography\" category. It is considered Iran's most lucrative literary award.\n\nThe book was unveiled at the Iranian mission at the United Nations in New York City. The translator, Paul Sprachman, admired the book and said: \"I got a deeper understanding of the book, after the conversation I had with Seyyedeh Zahra Hossein, the narrator of \"Da\". I discovered the difference between the Iran-Iraq war and other wars, after I read \"Da\". It was, as Iranians say, a sacred defense and full of spirituality.\"\n\nA review of the book was published on the website of Iran English Radio in April 2009. The book was also the subject of an in-depth analysis by Laetitia Nanquette, published in \"Iranian Studies\" in 2013. A research paper on the book was published in 2013 in the \"Sociological Journal of Art and Literature\".\n\nThe death of Shahpasand Hosseini, Zahra Hosseini's mother and one of the main characters of this book, was announced in June 2014.\n\nA TV adaptation by Sina Ataiyan was broadcast on IRIB 1, before the main\nnews program at 9 pm. The adaptation consisted of 120 15-minute episodes. The producer, Ali Taghipour, claimed that they were faithful to the context of the book. This TV series consisted of animated movies besides narration of the book by some of Iranian actresses who had personal interest in the book subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "31497203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31497203", "title": "Parchments of Awraman", "text": "Parchments of Awraman\n\nThe Parchments of Awraman are three parchment documents, found in 1909 in a cave in the Hawraman region of Iranian Kurdistan. They were found in Tang-i Var, Kuh-e Salan Mountain, near the village of Shahr Hawraman. The documents were found in a sealed jar by a villager, and then sent to London in October 1913.\n\nThe documents date from 88/87 BC to 33 AD, with two written in Greek and one in Parthian. They document the sale of a vineyard and other land, and include the names of Pātaspak, son of Tīrēn and Awīl, son of Baænīn. They were translated by philologist Ellis H. Minns and published in the \"Journal of Hellenic Studies\".\n"}
{"id": "25050925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25050925", "title": "Pavlo Khrystiuk", "text": "Pavlo Khrystiuk\n\nPavlo Khrystiuk ( \"Pavlo Onykiyovych Khrystiuk\") (1880 – September 19, 1941) was a Ukrainian cooperator, historian, journalist, political activist, and statesman.\n\nKhrystiuk was born in Kiev Governorate. He studied in Kiev Polytechnic Institute as his party co-member, Vsevolod Holubovych. He worked for the newspaper \"Rada\" (Council). In 1916-17 he also worked for journal \"Komashnia\". Later in his career were the socialists-revolutionary newspapers \"Borotba\" and \"Trudova Hromada\".\n\nHe became a member of the Central Committee of the Ukrainian Socialist-Revolutionary Party (UPSR) and the Villagers Association. Also he was a member of the Central Rada and the Rada Minor as well as the Pysar (Scribe) in the General Secretariat of Ukraine. He is the co-author of the Land Reform of January 31, 1918.\n\nHe was a Minister of the Internal Affairs in the government of Vsevolod Holubovych (1918) and the deputy Minister in the government of Isaak Mazepa (1919). After the IV Party Congress he was among the members of the \"central current\" as M.Hrushevsky.\n\nFrom 1919 Khrystiuk emigrated to Vienna, where he was a member of the UPSR \"foreign delegation\" and worked in the magazine \"Boritesia-poboryte!\". He returned to Ukraine in 1924 and worked for the Association of scientific and technological workers to influence the socialist construction (Kharkiv, 1928-1931). At that time he was also employed for the \"Chervony Shliach\" newspaper along with Pavlo Tychyna. He was the author of the history of revolution in Ukraine as well as numerous other books on the history of Ukraine.\n\nKhrystiuk was arrested on March 2, 1931 as the member of the Ukrainian National Center and was convicted to imprisonment. He died in one of the camps of the Sevvostlag, Khabarovsk Krai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40923739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40923739", "title": "Peter Bance", "text": "Peter Bance\n\nPeter Bance is a collector, Maharaja Duleep Singh archivist, Sikh. Also known as Peter Pants for his lack of any scholarly training. His grandfather emigrated to the UK in the 1930s.\n\nPeter Bance is the author of several books: \"The Duleep Singh,\" \"Sikhs in Britain: 150 Years of Photography\", \"Sovereign Squire and rebel\". He has also appeared in many BBC programs such as \"The Story Of The Turban\" (2012), \"Inside Out\" (2004), \"Desi DNA\" (2005), \"Britain's Maharajah\" (2013), \"Sophia: Suffragette Princess\" (2015) and \"The Stolen Maharajah: Britain's Indian Royal\" (2018) \n"}
{"id": "6386047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6386047", "title": "Peter the Deacon", "text": "Peter the Deacon\n\nPeter the Deacon () was the librarian of the abbey of Montecassino and continuator of the \"Chronicon Monasterii Casinensis\", usually called the Montecassino Chronicle in English. The chronicle was originally written by Leo of Ostia. According to both Chalandon and Lord Norwich, Peter is a poor historian and writer, much inferior to Leo. \n\nReputedly a descendant of the Counts of Tusculum, he was offered in 1115 to the monastery of Monte Cassino. About 1127 he was forced to leave the abbey and retired to the neighbouring Atina (Atina, Lazio), because he had supported Abbot Oderisius, who had been deposed by Pope Honorius II. In 1131 he returned to the abbey owing to the death of Pope Honorius. In 1137, he appeared before Emperor Lothair II, then in Italy, on behalf of his monastery. The sovereign was so pleased with him that he appointed him his chaplain and secretary, and would probably have attached him permanently to his person had not Abbot Wibald considered Peter's return necessary to the abbey. \n\nIn 1131 on his return to Monte Cassino Peter became librarian and keeper of the abbey archives, of which he compiled a cartulary (Registrum Petri Diaconi). Besides editing the existing chronicle of Monte Cassino (and introducing many falsehoods), he wrote several historical works: \"De viris illustribus Casinensibus\"; \"De ortu et obitu justorum Casinensium\"; \"De Locis sanctis\"; Disciplina Casinensis\"; \"Rhythmus de novissimis diebus\". \n\nPeter forged, under the name of Gordian, the \"Passion of St. Placidus\". He is vain and occasionally untruthful, but an entertaining writer. His works are in \"Patrologia Latina\", CLXXIII, 763-1144.\n\n"}
{"id": "15341295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15341295", "title": "Qadi Ayyad", "text": "Qadi Ayyad\n\n‘Iyad ibn Musa (1083–1149) (, formally Abu al-Fadl ‘Iyad ibn Amr ibn Musa ibn ‘Iyad ibn Muhammad ibn ‘Abdillah ibn Musa ibn ‘Iyad al-Yahsubi al-Sabti ), born in Ceuta, then belonging to the Almoravid dynasty, was the great imam of that city and, later, a qadi in the Emirate of Granada.\n\nQadi Iyaḍ was born into an established family of Arab origin in Ceuta. As a scion of a notable scholarly family, ʿIyad was able to learn from the best teachers Ceuta had to offer. The judge Abu ʿAbd Allah Muhammad b. ʿIsa (d. 505/1111) was ʿIyad’s first important teacher and is credited with his basic academic formation. Growing up, ʿIyad benefited from the traffic of scholars from al-Andalus, the Maghrib, and the eastern Islamic world. He became a prestigious scholar in his own right and won the support of the highest levels of society.\n\nIn his quest for knowledge, Iyad spent part of 507/1113 and 508/1114 visiting Cordoba, Murcia, Almeria, and Granada. He received ijāzas from the most important traditionist of his time, Abū ʿAlī al-Ṣadafī (d. 514/1120) in Murcia, and met with some of the most celebrated scholars of the moment, such as Ibn al-Hajj (d. 529/1134), Ibn Rushd (d. 520/1126), and Ibn Hamdin (d. 508/1114).\n\nʿIyad was appointed judge of Ceuta in 515/1121 and served in the position until 531/1136. During his tenure as judge of Ceuta he was extremely prolific. Iyad's overall fame as a jurist and as a writer of fiqh (positive law) was based on the work he did in this city.\n\nIyad was also appointed the judge of Grenada where he worked for just over a year.\n\nHe headed a revolt against the coming of the Almohades to Ceuta, but lost and was banished to Tadla and later Marrakech. He was a pupil of Abu Abdillah ibn Isa, Abu Abdillah ibn Hamdin and Abu al-Hassan ibn Siraj, and was a teacher of Averroes and Ibn Maḍāʾ.\n\nHe died in 1149. Because he refused to acknowledge Ibn Tumart as the awaited Mahdi, Qadi Ayyad was executed with a spear and his body subsequently cut to pieces. Although he was opposed to the Almohads and the ideas of Ibn Hazm, he did not hold enmity for the Zahirite school of Sunni Islam, which the Almohads and Ibn Hazm followed. Ayyad's comments on Ibn Hazm's teacher Abu al-Khiyar al-Zahiri were positive, as was Ayyad's characterization of his own father, a Zahirite theologian.\n\nCadi Ayyad University, also known as the University of Marrakech, was named after him. Qadi Ayyad is also well known as one of the seven saints of Marrakech and is buried near Bab Aïlen.\nHe was one of the most famous scholars of Maliki law and author of the well-known Ash-Shifa on the virtues of the prophet and \"Tartib al-mardarik wa-taqrib al-masalik li-marifat alam madhab Malik\", a collection of biographies of eminent Malikis, a.o. Abu Bakr ibn al-Arabi. Qadi `Iyad's other well-known works include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1002160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1002160", "title": "Robert Fabyan", "text": "Robert Fabyan\n\nRobert Fabyan (died c.1512) was a London draper, Sheriff and Alderman, and author of \"Fabyan's Chronicle\".\n\nRobert Fabyan was the son of John Fabyan and his wife, Agnes. He is said to have been born in London. He had a brother, John. His nephew, John Fabyan, married Anne Waldegrave, by whom he had a daughter, Mary Fabian, wife of Sir Thomas Spert.\n\nHe was apprenticed as a draper to William Holme about 1470, and was granted the freedom of the Worshipful Company of Drapers in 1476. In 1485 he served as renter warden of the Drapers, and in 1486 as auditor of the accounts of the City of London. In 1493 he was elected Sheriff, and in the following year as alderman of the ward of Farringdon Without. In 1495 he was elected Master of the Drapers, and in 1496 was chosen to petition Henry VII on behalf of the Company with respect to the levies on cloth exported from England to Flanders. During the Cornish Rebellion of 1497 Fabyan, John Brooke and John Warner were charged with securing Ludgate and Newgate. After the suppression of the rebellion they travelled with the King to Woodstock. In 1498 he was one of the assessors of a subsidy levied to finance the war in Scotland. In 1501 he was again elected Master of the Drapers. In 1503 he resigned his office of alderman on the ground that he lacked the financial resources to support election as Lord Mayor.\n\nHe is best known as the author of the work commonly known as \"Fabyan's Chronicle\", which presents 'parallel histories of England and France', and covers the period from the arrival of the legendary Brutus of Troy in England to the death of Henry VII. Two manuscripts are extant (Holkham Hall, MS 671, and BL, Cotton MS Nero C.xi), and although these are not in Fabyan's hand, it is almost certain that the text is his. The chronicle was initially printed without attribution by Richard Pynson in 1516 as \"The New Chronicles of England and France\", but an edition of 1533 printed by William Rastell bore Fabyan's name on the title page: \"Fabyans cronycle newly prynted\". Both John Bale and John Stow described the chronicle as Fabyan's work, although according to McLaren, Stow also wrongly attributes to him the manuscript of the \"Great Chronicle\" (London, Guildhall Library, MS 3313), likely because both Fabyan's Chronicle and the Great Chronicle are written (or copied) in the same hand.\n\nA continuation in 1509 appears also to be attributable to Fabyan, and includes events personally witnessed by him, such as the arrest in 1468 of Thomas Cooke, a prominent merchant in London, and the arrival in England in 1502 of three men, inhabitants of Newfoundland, 'whom the King kept a time after'.\n\nFabyan was the first London chronicler to cite his sources, which included \"The Brut\", Bede, William of Malmesbury, Ranulf Higden, Henry of Huntingdon and numerous others, as well as records of the City of London. John Bale claimed that the 1516 edition was burned by Cardinal Wolsey. The second edition of 1533 was printed after Wolsey's death, and was followed by editions in 1542 and 1559. Henry Ellis edited a modern edition in 1811.\n\nFabyan was executor of the will of his father-in-law, and through his wife inherited a house called Halstedys together with other lands in Theydon Garnon, Essex. At his death he also owned tenements in the London parishes of St Benet Fink and St Michael's, Cornhill, as well as lands and tenements in East Ham, West Ham, Leyton and other towns in Essex.\n\nStow states that Fabyan died in 1511, while Bale dates his death to 25 February 1512. Stow also records that he was buried at St Michael's Cornhill, where his monument is no longer extant, although Stow preserved the English part of his epitaph. In his will, proved 12 July 1513, he left bequests to his wife, his six surviving children, his cousin, Dorothy, and the mercer Robert Tate, Lord Mayor of London, among others.\n\nFabyan married Elizabeth Pake, daughter and heir of a London draper, John Pake, by Elizabeth Stokker, by whom he had sixteen children, only six of whom, four sons, John, Robert, Thomas, and Anthony, and two daughters, Joan Haryat and Mary, were alive at his death.\n\nEllis notes that a John Fabyan, in his will dated 16 March 1541, mentions 'the Lady Spert' (see above) as his sister, and refers to the Earl of Southampton as his master. He also mentions another sister, Martha, to whom he bequeaths four nobles yearly, and the Lady Marney, to whom he bequeaths his books of meditation and his chronicles. McLaren suggest that this might be the will of 'a grandson of Robert'; however Baldwin's statement that Robert Fabyan had a nephew, John Fabyan, whose daughter Mary married Sir Thomas Spert (see above), suggests that the 1541 will was the will of the son of Robert Fabyan's nephew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56131105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56131105", "title": "Scythian Kurgans tombs", "text": "Scythian Kurgans tombs\n\nThe Scythian kurgan tombs (Almatinskiye Boraldayskiye Sakskiye Kurgany) are burial mounds of the Scythians located in Almaty, Kazakhstan. The protected area was discovered in 1990 in the Altai Mountains (Ukok Plateau). The tombs date back to the early Iron Age, and are the only find of this period in the Almaty region.\n\nThe site comprises 430 hectares, and includes 47 mounds of the Saka period from the 5th to the 3rd centuries BC. The average diameter of the mounds is 60 meters by 150 meters, and their average height is 14 meters. The dry climate conditions in the area have preserved and mummified remains, including human remains, clothing, and various objects. A burial area for horses has also been found.\n\nThe Tsar and his mother were found in the biggest burial mound (number 11). Researchers believe that the various burial mounds had multiple functions, including astronomical purposes and calendar ceremonies. There are current plans of turning the site into a museum.\n"}
{"id": "57384461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57384461", "title": "Simon Pelloutier", "text": "Simon Pelloutier\n\nSimon Pelloutier (Oct. 27, 1694 – Oct. 3, 1757) was a French historian, was born at Leipsic, Germany, Oct. 27, 1694. His father, a merchant established at Lyons, had been driven from France by the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. Aided by an excellent memory and a strong desire to educate himself, he studied at Halle, at Berlin, and Geneva. Admitted to the evangelical ministry, he served the French churches of Buchholtz (1715), of Madgeburg (1719), and of Berlin (1725), where he was the colleague of Lentant. In 1743 he was elected member of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin, and was chosen for its librarian in 1745. He died at Berlin Oct. 3, 1757. \n\nHis principal work is, \"Histoiare des Celtes et particulierement des Gaulois et des Germains depuis les temps fabuleux jusqua la prise de Roze par les Gaulois\" (La Haye, 1740-1750, 2 vols. 12mo). This edition is full of faults; Chiniac de la Bastide has given a second, revised and enlarged after the MSS. of the author (Paris, 1771, 2 vols. 4to, or 8 vols. 12mo), which was translated into German by Purmann (Frankfort, 1777-1784, 3 vols. 8vo). \"This work,\" says the \"Journal des Savants,\" \"is very curious and agreeable in many respects; it is full of an extremely varied erudition. The author, not satisfied with proving what he advances, always accompanies his proofs with judicious reflections, from which he afterwards draws very extended conclusions, calculated to throw light upon the history and antiquities of all the different peoples of Europe.\" The editor has added to the \"Histoire des Celtes\" several dissertations by Pelloutier; among others the \"Discours sur les Galates,\" which gained for him in 1742 a prize from the French Academy of Inscriptions. See Brucker, \"Pinacotheca,\" dec. 3, No. 9; Formey, \"Eloges;\" Haag, \"La France Protestante.\"\n"}
{"id": "467481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467481", "title": "Sneakers", "text": "Sneakers\n\nSneakers (also known as athletic shoes, tennis shoes, gym shoes, sport shoes, runners, or trainers) are shoes primarily designed for sports or other forms of physical exercise, but which are now also widely used for everyday wear. The term generally describes a type of footwear with a flexible sole made of rubber or synthetic material and an upper part made of leather, synthetic substitutes or cloth.\n\nThe shoes have gone by a variety of names, depending on geography, and changing over the decades. The term \"sneakers\" is most commonly used in the Northeastern United States, South Florida, North Carolina, and parts of Canada. The British English equivalent of \"sneaker\" in its modern form is \"trainer\". In some urban areas in the United States, the slang for sneakers is kicks. Other terms include training shoes or trainers (Britain), sandshoes, gym boots or joggers (Geordie English in the UK), running shoes, runners or gutties (Canada, Australia and Scotland), daps in Wales, runners in Hiberno-English, sneakers (North America) and (Australia), tennis shoes (North American and Australia), gym shoes, tennies, sports shoes, sneaks, takkies (South Africa and Hiberno-English), rubber shoes (Philippine English) or canvas shoes (Nigeria).\n\nPlimsolls (British English) are \"low tech\" athletic shoes, and are also called 'sneakers' in American English. The word \"sneaker\" is often attributed to American Henry Nelson McKinney who was an advertising agent for N. W. Ayer & Son. In 1917, he used the term because the rubber sole made the shoe stealthy. The word was already in use at least as early as 1887, as the \"Boston Journal\" made reference to \"sneakers\" as \"the name boys give to tennis shoes.\" The name \"sneakers\" originally referred to how quiet the rubber soles were on the ground, in contrast to noisy standard hard leather sole dress shoes. Someone wearing sneakers could \"sneak up\" on someone while someone wearing standards could not.\n\nEarlier, the name \"sneaks\" had been used by prison inmates to refer to warders because of the rubber-soled shoes they wore.\n\nThese shoes acquired the nickname 'plimsoll' in the 1870s, derived according to Nicholette Jones' book \"The Plimsoll Sensation\", from the coloured horizontal band joining the upper to the sole, which resembled the Plimsoll line on a ship's hull. Alternatively, just like the Plimsoll line on a ship, if water got above the line of the rubber sole, the wearer would get wet.\n\nPlimsolls were widely worn by vacationers and also began to be worn by sportsmen on the tennis and croquet courts for their comfort. Special soles with engraved patterns to increase the surface grip of the shoe were developed, and these were ordered in bulk for the use of the British Army. Athletic shoes were increasingly used for leisure and outdoor activities at the turn of the 20th century - plimsolls were even found with the ill-fated Scott Antarctic expedition of 1911. Plimsolls were commonly worn by pupils in schools' physical education lessons in the UK from the 1950s until the early 1970s .\n\nBritish company J.W. Foster and Sons designed and produced the first shoes designed for running in 1895; the shoes were spiked to allow for greater traction and speed. The company sold its high-quality handmade running shoes to athletes around the world, eventually receiving a contract for the manufacture of running shoes for the British team in the 1924 Summer Olympics. Harold Abrahams and Eric Liddell won the 100-m and 400-m events, kitted out with Foster's running gear.\nThis style of footwear also became prominent in America at the turn of the 20th century, where they were called 'sneakers'. In 1892, the U.S. Rubber Company introduced the first rubber-soled shoes in the country, sparking a surge in demand and production. The first basketball shoes were designed by Spalding as early as 1907. The market for sneakers grew after World War I, when sports and athletics increasingly became a way to demonstrate moral fiber and patriotism. The U.S. market for sneakers grew steadily as young boys lined up to buy sneakers endorsed by football player Jim Thorpe and Converse All Stars endorsed by basketball player Chuck Taylor.\n\nDuring the interwar period, athletic shoes began to be marketed for different sports, and differentiated designs were made available for men and women. Athletic shoes were used by competing athletes at the Olympics, helping to popularise athletic shoes among the general public. In 1936, a French brand, Spring Court, marketed the first canvas tennis shoe featuring signature eight ventilation channels on a vulcanised natural rubber sole.\n\nAdolf \"Adi\" Dassler began producing his own sports shoes in his mother's wash kitchen in Herzogenaurach, Bavaria, after his return from World War I, and went on to establish one of the leading athletic shoe manufacturers, Adidas. He also successfully marketed his shoes to athletes at the 1936 Summer Olympics, which helped cement his good reputation. Business boomed and the Dasslers were selling 200,000 pairs of shoes each year before World War II.\n\nDuring the 1950s, leisure opportunities greatly expanded, and children and adolescents began to wear sneakers as school dress codes relaxed. Sneaker sales rose so high, they began to adversely impact on the sales of conventional leather shoes, leading to a fierce advertising war for market share in the late '50s. In the 1970s, jogging for exercise became increasingly popular, and trainers designed specifically for comfort while jogging sold well. Companies also started to target some of their products at the casual fashion market. Soon, shoes were available for football, jogging, basketball, running, etc. Many sports had their relevant shoe, made possible by podiatrist development of athletic shoe technology.\n\nDuring the 1990s, shoe companies perfected their fashion and marketing skills. Sports endorsements with famous athletes grew larger, and marketing budgets went through the roof. Sneakers became a fashion statement and were marketed as a definition of identity and personality rather than simply athletic aids.\n\nFrom 1970 (5 models) over 1998 (285 models) to 2012 (3,371), the number of sport shoe models in the U.S. has grown exponentially.\n\nThe term 'athletic shoes' is typically used for shoes utilized for jogging or road running and indoor sports such as basketball, but tends to exclude shoes for sports played on grass such as association football and rugby football, which are generally known in North America as 'cleats' and in British English as \"boots\".\n\nAttributes of an athletic shoe include a flexible sole, appropriate tread for the function, and ability to absorb impact. As the industry and designs have expanded, the term \"athletic shoes\" is based more on the design of the bottom of the shoe than the aesthetics of the top of the shoe. Today's designs include sandals, Mary Janes, and even elevated styles suitable for running, dancing, and jumping.\n\nThe shoes themselves are made of flexible compounds, typically featuring a sole made of dense rubber. While the original design was basic, manufacturers have since tailored athletic shoes for their specific purposes. An example of this is the spiked shoe developed for track running. Some of these shoes are made up to unusually large sizes for athletes with large feet.\n\nRunning shoes come in a range of shapes suited to different running styles/abilities. Generally, they are divided by running style: the majority are for heel-toe joggers/runners which are further subdivided into 'neutral', 'overpronation' and 'underpronation'. These are constructed with a complex structure of \"rubber\" with plastic/metal stiffeners to restrict foot movement. More advanced runners tend to wear flatter and flexible shoes, which allow them to run more quickly with greater comfort.\n\nAccording to the NPD Group, one in four pairs of running shoes that were sold in the United States in 2016 were bought from an online retailer.\n\n, brands with global popularity include: Adidas, Air Jordan, ASICS, Babolat, Brooks, Converse, DC, Diadora, Dunlop, Ethletic, Feiyue, Fila, Hoka One One, Hummel, Kappa, Karhu, K-Swiss, Keds, Lescon, Lotto, Merrell, Mizuno, New Balance, Nike, Onitsuka Tiger, PF Flyers, Pony, Pro-Keds, Puma, Reebok, Saucony, Skechers, Umbro, Under Armour, and Vans.\n\n\nSneakers have become an important part of hip hop (primarily Pumas, Nike, and Adidas) and rock 'n roll (Converse, Macbeth) cultures since the 1970s. Hip hop artists sign million dollar deals with major brands such as Nike, Adidas, or Puma to promote their shoes. Sneaker collectors, called \"sneakerheads\", regard sneakers as fashionable items. Sneaker companies encourage this trend by producing rare sneakers in limited numbers, often at very high retail prices. Artistically-modified sneakers can sell for upwards of $1000 at exclusive establishments like Saks Fifth Avenue. In 2005, a documentary, \"Just for Kicks\", about the sneaker phenomenon and history was released..\n\n"}
{"id": "9123718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9123718", "title": "Toribio de Benavente Motolinia", "text": "Toribio de Benavente Motolinia\n\nToribio of Benavente, O.F.M. (1482, Benavente, Spain – 1568, Mexico City, New Spain), also known as Motolinía, was a Franciscan missionary who was one of the famous Twelve Apostles of Mexico who arrived in New Spain in May 1524. His published writings are a key source for the history and ethnography of the Nahuas of central Mexico in the immediate post-conquest period as well as for the challenges of Christian evangelization. He is probably best known for his attacks on the Dominican defender of the rights of the indigenous peoples, Bartolomé de las Casas, who criticized the Conquest. Motolinia supported the subjugation of the Indians as savages and did all he could to vilify Las Casas, who tried to protect the Indians' natural rights and full humanity.\n\nToribio entered the Franciscan Order as a young boy, dropping his family name of Paredes in favor of his city of birth, as was the custom among the Franciscans. In 1523, he was chosen to be among the Twelve Apostles of Mexico, to be sent to the New World.\n\nAfter a strenuous journey he arrived in Mexico, where he was greeted with great respect by Hernán Cortés. Upon walking through Tlaxcala the Indians said of his ragged Franciscan robes \"Motolinia\", Nahuatl for \"one who is poor or afflicted.\" That was the first word he learned in the language, and he took it as his name. For the Franciscan Order, poverty was an important and defining virtue. He was named Guardian of the Convent of San Francisco in Mexico City, where he resided from 1524 to 1527.\n\nFrom 1527 to 1529, he worked in Guatemala and perhaps Nicaragua, studying the new missions in that area. Back in Mexico, he stayed at the convent of Huejotzinco, near Tlaxcala, where he had to help the natives against the abuse and atrocities committed by Nuño de Guzmán. He suggested for the native leaders to complain to Bishop Fray Juan de Zumárraga about Guzmán, but the latter accused him of trying to instigate a revolt among the Indians against the Spanish. In 1530, he went to the Convent of Tlaxcala and contributed in the foundation of the City of \"Puebla de los Ángeles\", which was chosen for its agricultural and other economic potential; it was to be a settlement of Spaniards who pursued agriculture themselves without the aid of indigenous labor of the \"encomienda\". With Franciscan colleagues, he traveled to Tehuantepec, Guatemala, and to the Yucatán to undertake further missionary work.\n\nEven though Motolinía protected Indians against the abuse of Guzmán, he did not share the opinions of the Dominican bishop, Bartolomé de las Casas, who saw the conquest and subjugation of the Indians as a crime against all Christian morality. Motolinía believed that God would protect the Indians once converted and that the missionary work thus was more important than fighting the \"encomienda\" system, and defended it along with evangelization. In fact, in a famous letter to King Charles V of Spain, he undertook a virulent attack on Las Casas, intending to discredit him completely. He called him \"a grievous man, restless, importunate, turbulent, injurious, and prejudicial\", and even an apostate, in that he had renounced the Bishopric of Chiapas. He furthermore advised the king to have Las Casas shut up for safe keeping in a monastery. In 1545, the \"encomenderos\" of Chiapas asked for him to come there to defend them against Las Casas but he declined, in the same way he declined a position as bishop offered to him by the king. The letter to the king is an important document, clarifying the Franciscan position of baptizing as many Indians as possible if they presented themselves for it. In the time of the conquest Mexico's devastating plagues had reduced the indigenous population considerably and the Franciscans feared for the souls of Indians who died without baptism. They took the position that they should baptize to ensure salvation, but also continue pastoral care so that Indians would grow more knowledgeable about their new Christian faith. The Dominican Order was famous for its adherence to firm doctrinal positions, which meant that they refused baptism to Indians in Mexico if were deemed with a lack of knowledge in the tenets of Christianity.\n\nIn his letter to the king, Motolinia recounts an incident of Las Casas's refusal to baptize an Indian in Tlaxcala.; I said to Las Casas: \"How is this, father, all this zeal and love that you say you have for the Indians is exhausted in loading them down and going around writing about Spaniards, and vexing the Indians, since your grace loads down more Indians than thirty (Franciscan) friars? And since you won't baptize or instruct an Indian, it would be well if you would pay those that you so load down and tire out.\"\n\nAn early chapter of Motolinia's history recounts what he considered the ten plagues afflicting New Spain, bringing the Biblical metaphor of the Ten Plagues into the unfolding events in early Mexico. He considered smallpox the first plague; the second, the number of those who died in the conquest; the third, famine following the fall of Tenochtitlan; the fourth, native and black labor bosses and tribute collectors; the fifth, the Indians' tax and tribute obligations; the sixth, Indians forced to labor in Spanish gold mines; the seventh, the building of Mexico City; the eighth, enslavement of Indians to work in the mines; the ninth, the labor in mines far from Indians' homes; and the tenth plague, the factionalism of Spaniards, particularly when Cortés left central Mexico for conquests in Honduras. With the exception of smallpox and factionalism among Spaniards, Motolinia considered Spaniards' deliberate oppression and exploitation of the Indians the worst afflictions.\n\nHaving founded many cloisters and convents in Mexico and baptized an estimated 400,000-plus Indians, he retired to the friary of San Francisco in Mexico City, where he died in 1568. He is remembered in Mexico as one of the most important evangelists.\n\nMotolinia is well known for his two histories of the Aztec and for recording incidents in the evangelization of the Indians. Motolinia recounted the martyrdom of three converted boys from Tlaxcala (Cristóbal, Antonio, and Juan), who were killed by adults who resisted conversion. In Motolinia's account, the deaths of Juan and Antonio were premeditated:[S]ome lords and important men had... arranged to kill these children [Juan and Antonio] because they were breaking their idols and depriving them of their gods... Antonio came out at once, and when he saw the cruelty with which these brutes were treating his servant (Juan), instead of fleeing he said to them with great spirit: \"Why are you killing my companion; for it is not his fault but mine? I am the one who is taking away your idols, because I know that they are devils and not gods. If you consider them gods, take them and leave that boy alone, for he has done you no harm.\" Saying this he threw on the ground some idols which he was carrying in his skirt. By the time he finished speaking these words, the Indias had killed the child Juan, and then they fell upon the other, Antonio, so that they also killed him. The children had been put in the care of lords of Tlaxcala by the leader of the Twelve Apostles of Mexico, Fray Martín de Valencia, who Motolinia thought would be especially saddened by the murders. Antonio was not just a child convert but would have become heir to a principal lord of Tlaxcala. To the Franciscans, the martyrdom of the Tlaxcalan boys showed the bravery and the zeal of new converts to the faith and the excellence of the Franciscans' strategy of converting children for the long-term growth of Christianity.\n\nUnlike the writings of fellow Franciscan Bernardino de Sahagún, particularly the Florentine Codex, Motolinia's writings are unsystematic in their organization, as he himself acknowledged. However, as one of the earliest friars evangelizing in the densest area of Nahua populations, what he wrote is extremely important as a record of indigenous life and first encounters with the Spaniards.\n\nAn English translation of significant portions of Motolinia's works was done by Elizabeth Andros Foster in 1950 for the Cortés Society and reissued in 1973 by Greenwood Press. Her introduction to the translation has a careful discussion of Motolinia's life and works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24306566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306566", "title": "Uncle", "text": "Uncle\n\nUncle (from the diminutive of \"avus\" \"grandfather\") is a male family relationship or kinship within an extended or immediate family. An uncle is the brother, half-brother, step-brother, or brother-in-law of one's parent, or the husband of one's aunt or uncle. The specific terms for the last three respectively are half-uncle, stepuncle and uncle-in-law which can refer also to the husband of one's aunt. A biological uncle is a second degree male relative and shares 25% genetic overlap. However people who are not a biological uncle, are sometimes affectionately called as an uncle, as a title of admiration and respect.\n\nA woman with the equivalent relationship of an uncle is an aunt. The reciprocal relationship to both of these is that of a nephew or niece.\n\nA great-uncle (sometimes written as great uncle, grand-uncle or granduncle) is the brother or brother-in-law of one's grandparent.\n\nA male cousin of one's parent is often addressed as \"uncle\" instead of \"cousin\".\n\nIn some cultures and families, children may refer to the cousins of their parents as \"aunt\" or \"uncle\". It is also a title of respect for elders (for example older cousins, neighbors, acquaintances, close family friends, and even sometimes total strangers). Using the term in this way is a form of fictive kinship.\n\nIn some cultures, like Albanian, Slavic, or Persian, no single inclusive term describing both a person's kinship to their parental male sibling or parental male in-law exists. Instead, there are specific terms describing a person's kinship to their mother's brother (\"dajë\" in Albanian language, \"daiyee\" in Persian, \"wuj\" (diminutive: \"wujek\") in Polish) or a person's kinship to their father's brother (\"xhajë\" in Albanian, \"amou\" in Persian, \"stryj\" (diminutive: \"stryjek\") in Polish). An analogous differentiation exists using separate terms to describe a person's kinship to their mother's female sibling, (\"teze\" in Albanian, \"khaleh\" in Persian, \"ciotka\" (diminutive: \"ciocia\") in Polish), and a person's kinship to their father's female sibling, (\"hallë\" in Albanian, \"ammeh\" in Persian, \"stryjna\" (diminutive: \"stryjenka\") in Polish).\n\nFurthermore, in Persian culture the terms used to describe a person's kinship to their maternal or paternal in-laws bear clear and unambiguous descriptions of that relationship, differentiating the parental in-laws from blood-relatives. For example, there is a specific term describing a person's kinship to the spouse of their paternal uncle (i.e. \"zan-amou\", literally 'wife-of-' amou). This clarifies that kinship is to the spouse of the person's paternal male sibling, as opposed to a blood-relationship.\n\nUncles and aunts are considered important in modern Irish culture and are usually chosen to be godfather or godmother of children during Catholic baptism. A young Irish person might seek the counsel of their favourite aunt or uncle before making an important decision, and the opinion of the respective aunt or uncle is treated seriously.\n\nDue to the loving image of an old but wise and friendly uncle in many cultures the word has been used as a loving nickname for many people. In Tibetan mythology Akhu Tönpa (\"Uncle Tompa\") is a familiar and well-beloved figure. The American national personification Uncle Sam serves as an allegorical fatherly figure to many Americans. Various children's TV hosts have used \"uncle\" as their nickname, including Walt Disney (\"Uncle Walt\"), Bob Davidse (\"Nonkel Bob\", literally \"Uncle Bob\"), Edwin Rutten (who hosted a children's show named \"De Show van Ome Willem\" (\"The Show of Uncle Willem\"). The Dutch poet Ome Ko also used \"uncle\" as part of his pseudonym.\n\nRich, wise or otherwise eccentric uncles are also popular in works of fiction.\n\n\nVernon Dursley a.k.a \"Uncle Vernon\" The uncle in-law of the protagonist of \"Harry Potter\" by \"J. K. Rowling\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8400567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8400567", "title": "What Was Asked of Us", "text": "What Was Asked of Us\n\nWhat Was Asked of Us: An Oral History of the Iraq War by the Soldiers Who Fought It is a 2006 book presenting the oral history of soldiers who participated in the Iraq War. It was written by Trish Wood, an award-winning author who has been honoured by the Canadian Association of Journalists, among other organizations. Its interviews are a qualitative approach to documenting the war.\n"}
{"id": "2755204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755204", "title": "William Cook (entrepreneur)", "text": "William Cook (entrepreneur)\n\nWilliam Alfred \"Bill\" Cook (January 27, 1931 – April 15, 2011), an American entrepreneur, philanthropist and historic preservationist, co-founded the medical equipment manufacturer Cook Group with his wife Gayle Cook in 1963. He resided in Bloomington, Indiana and was one of America's wealthiest men.\n\nCook was born in Mattoon, Illinois, and he grew up and graduated from high school in Canton, Illinois where he was a letterman in football, basketball, and track. He majored in biology at Northwestern University where he joined Beta Theta Pi fraternity and graduated in 1953. He had planned to go on to medical school, but was drafted into the army, where he served his two-year stint as a surgical technician. Bill married Gayle Karch in 1957, and they had a son (now an executive within the Cook Group), Carl, in 1962. In 1963, the Cook family moved to Bloomington, Indiana, where they started the company in their apartment that was eventually to become the Cook Group. For his many contributions to society, Cook was honored with honorary degrees from Northwestern University, Indiana University, Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology, Marian College (now Marian University), and Vincennes University.\n\nInitially making medical devices, including guidewires for catheter angiography, Bill Cook and his wife Gayle started Cook Group in a spare bedroom in their Bloomington, Indiana apartment in 1963. They collaborated with many of the founders of Interventional Radiology, including Dr. Charles Dotter, to grow Cook, Inc. into the world's largest family-owned medical device manufacturer. Notable products included the Spectrum antibiotic-impregnated catheter (Rifamphin/Minocycline); the Gianturco-Roubin coronary stent, the first coronary stent approved for use in the USA; the first paclitaxel-coated drug-eluting stent, the Supra-G, tested in Asia; and the V-Flex, tested in Europe.\n\nCook and his wife Gayle took an interest in historic preservation projects as business ventures. The most notable project has been the restoration of the West Baden Springs Hotel in partnership with Indiana Landmarks. This project led Cook to take on the development of the French Lick Resort Casino project in Orange County, Indiana. In June 2007, Indiana Landmarks unveiled an award, to be called the \"Cook Cup,\" for outstanding individual contributions to historic preservation in Indiana. Also in 2007 Bill, his wife Gayle and son Carl provided the funds to restore Beck's Mill at Salem, Indiana. In April, 2010, Indiana Landmarks announced a $7-million pledge from the Cooks to restore the former Central Avenue Methodist Church in Indianapolis as a performance venue and new state headquarters for Landmarks now known as the Indiana Landmarks Center. From early 2009 he worked to build up and preserve the downtown area of his hometown, Canton, Illinois, also building a factory and new hotel there, with plans to build a second factory.\n\nIn 1985, Bill Cook began a drum & bugle corps known as the Star of Indiana. He not only provided the $1 million in seed money necessary to start the corps, but he also often helped drive the coach buses that transported the corps around the U.S and Canada on summer tour. Unlike most drum corps, Star of Indiana was run as a business venture, and, in that respect, served as a model for the corps that remain in active competition today. Star of Indiana made DCI finals in every year of competition, and won the Drum Corps International Division I World Championship in 1991 and placed no lower than third from 1990 onwards. After the 1993 season, Cook and Star of Indiana left DCI and began touring as Brass Theater before debuting the show \"Blast!\" at the London Apollo Theatre in Hammersmith. The show opened in the United States in 2000 and moved to Broadway in 2001. It won the 2001 Tony Award for \"Best Special Theatrical Event\" and also won the 2001 Emmy Award for \"Best Choreography.\" \n\nAlthough a graduate of Northwestern University, Bill Cook developed an attachment to Indiana University (IU), located in his adopted hometown of Bloomington. Cook and his wife, Gayle, were ardent supporters of IU's Jacobs School of Music and the school's renowned music library is named in their honor. In 1996, the Cooks designated a $1 million gift to honor IU Foundation President Bill Armstrong and his wife, Martha Lea; this gift was used to fund the Martha Lea and Bill Armstrong Teacher Educators, which allows a group of Indiana public school teachers to advance their professional development by working with IU faculty and education students. In 2010, IU's Kelley School of Business presented the Cooks with the William L. Haeberle Entrepreneurial Legacy Award, which the school bestows upon \"...Hoosiers who represent the very best in entrepreneurship.\" The Cook Group donated $15 million to IU Athletics, which was primarily used for the enhancement of the basketball development center, named \"Cook Hall\" at its dedication in 2010. Over the years and for many purposes, the Cooks donated more than $45 million to the university, which Bill Cook also served as a trustee from 1995-98.\n\nBill Cook was the richest man in the state of Indiana. In 2008, he was worth around $5 billion, according to the \"Forbes\" 400. In September 2010, Cook was ranked No. 101 on the Forbes 400 list of the wealthiest Americans. His wealth was estimated at $3.1 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "3377872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3377872", "title": "Williamite", "text": "Williamite\n\nA Williamite is a follower of King William III of England who deposed King James II in the Glorious Revolution. William, the Stadtholder of the Dutch Republic, replaced James with the support of English Whigs. \n\nOne of William's aims was to ensure England's entry into his League of Augsburg against France in the Nine Years War. For Williamites in England, Scotland and Ireland, William was seen as the guarantor of civil and religious liberty and the Protestant monarchy against Catholic absolutism. \n\nThe term \"Williamite\" is also commonly used to refer to William's multi-national army in Ireland during the Williamite War in Ireland, 1689-91. In Ireland itself, William was primarily supported by Protestants and opposed by the native and Anglo-Irish Catholic Jacobites who supported James. Once James II had come to the throne in 1685, he had his Viceroy Richard Talbot, Earl of Tyrconnell replace Protestants with Catholics in the government. The Royal Irish Army was purged of Protestants, who were replaced by Catholic officers and soldiers. The Irish Militia was disarmed and its weapons issued to Catholics.\n\nIn response in 1689 Irish Protestants formed their own Army of the North, proclaimed William of Orange to be King, and began seizing strongholds around Cork and particularly in Ulster. However the Jacobite Irish Army was able to re-establish control taking Bandon and routing the Army of the North during the Break of Dromore. Before long only Derry and Enniskillen still held out.\n\nAfter these early setbacks, Williamite forces won a series of victories during the war defending Derry and capturing Carrickfergus in 1689. Subsequent battles at the Battle of the Boyne and Battle of Aughrim led to a decisive victory at Limerick by 1691. William himself led his forces at the Boyne in 1690, which was widely commemorated in paintings such as Benjamin West's \"The Battle of the Boyne\". He is still depicted in the iconography of the Orange Order, whose name comes from William's dynasty, the House of Orange-Nassau.\n\"Williamite\" is sometimes applied to Late Stuart country house architecture built \"c\" 1690 - 1710 in the conservative classicising English tradition that had been established under Charles II by Hugh May and Sir Christopher Wren, of which Belton House, Lincolnshire, and, formerly Stoke Edith, Herefordshire are typical examples. Such compact houses do not fit easily within the conventions of English baroque architecture.\n\nThe \"Williamite Purple Star\" is up to the present part of the flag of the Orange Order in Northern Ireland.\n\n"}
{"id": "54933623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54933623", "title": "Wolfgang Freyberg", "text": "Wolfgang Freyberg\n\nWolfgang Freyberg (born April 12, 1956) is a German historian and slavicist. Freyberg was born in Göttingen, Lower Saxony and studied at the University of Göttingen. Since 1985 he is the director of the Cultural Center East Prussia in Ellingen, Bavaria.\n"}
{"id": "8845105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8845105", "title": "Women's Classical Caucus", "text": "Women's Classical Caucus\n\nThe Women's Classical Caucus, Inc. (WCC) is an affiliate of the American Philological Association, the organization for North American scholars and teachers of Greek and Latin language, literature, and culture (known as \"classicists\"), Greek and Roman historians, and scholars of ancient philosophy, science, material culture, papyrology, epigraphy, and other fields. The WCC also maintains liaisons with the American Institute of Archaeology and with Lambda, formerly the Lesbian and Gay Classical Caucus.\n\nThe WCC is a not-for-profit group founded in 1972 and incorporated in 1992; membership is open to men as well as women. University professors and graduate students make up the majority of its members, but membership includes high school teachers, independent scholars, college students, and retired academics. According to its website, the group's goals are both scholarly and professional. It seeks to incorporate feminist perspectives in the study and teaching of ancient Mediterranean cultures, particularly the study of women in classical antiquity. It also strives to advance the goals of equality and diversity within the profession of Classics, to foster supportive professional relationships among classicists concerned with questions of gender, and to forge links with feminist scholars in other disciplines. The WCC also publishes \"Cloelia\", an annual newsletter.\n\nIts Steering Committee meets each year at the APA Annual Meeting, when the group also hosts \nget-togethers for graduate students and a Business Meeting open to all members.\n\n"}
