{"id": "43400580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43400580", "title": "Association for Practical and Professional Ethics", "text": "Association for Practical and Professional Ethics\n\nThe Association for Practical and Professional Ethics (APPE) is a non-proft professional organization that supports research, training, and education in practical and professional ethics. It was founded in 1991 with support from Indiana University and the Lilly Endowment to encourage interdisciplinary scholarship and teaching among educators and practitioners. The association sponsors three Ethics Bowls Programs: the International Intercollegiate Ethics Bowl (which holds its IEB National Competition each year at the APPE Annual Conference), as well as the IEB Regionals; the APPE Two Year College Ethics Bowl (which also competes in the IEB Nationals Competition); and the APPE High School Ethics Bowl. The association was hosted on the Indiana University campus in Bloomington, Indiana until mid-2017, when APPE moved to the Prindle Institute for Ethics at DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana. You can find more information about APPE (including new contact information) here.\nThe updated contact information for APPE is:\n\nAddress: PO Box 37, Greencastle, IN 46135\n\nPhone: 765-658-5015\n\nEmail: \n\nWebsite: appe-ethics.org\n\nMembers have online access to the following resources:\n\nThe Annual Conference of the Association for Practical and Professional Ethics is held in late February or early March each year at a different location in the United States. For 2018, the conference will be at the Hilton Palmer House Hotel in Chicago, Illinois March 1 - 4, 2018. The Association released its Call for Submissions in late July and will accept submissions through October 27, 2017 through the APPE EasyChair site. \n"}
{"id": "56611814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56611814", "title": "Bà Tùng Long", "text": "Bà Tùng Long\n\nBà Tùng Long (1915 - 2006) was a Vietnamese author and teacher.\n\nLê Thị Bạch Vân (), courtesy name Tùng Long (從龍), pen name Bà Tùng Long (婆從龍 / \"Madame Tùng Long\") was born on 1 August 1915 in Đà Nẵng (old birth certificate as 21 April 1915 in Hội An), French Annam. Her father Lê Tường was a journalist and politician who has been entered the as a liaison man.\n\nShe has passed the primary education in Đà Nẵng and then one years at in Huế Capital. Since 1932, she followed her father to come Saigon and studied at Collège Des Jeunes Filles Indigènes. So she started her love with journalist Hồng Tiêu who has a real name Nguyễn Đức Huy.\n\nShe began her career as a journalist at the newspaper. When suspended, she has hired to rent Tân Thời newspaper's manchette and became the editor-in-chief. However, this newspaper was also suspended as soon. Then, she became a teacher for the French and Cochinchinese language at Tôn Thọ Tường school, at the same time as the Saigon Newspaper's collaborator. During World War II, her family (with her husband and 3 children) returned Nghĩa Kỳ commune (Quảng Ngãi Province) to settle. She was appointed as the united-headmistress for all of Nghĩa Kỳ's schools by local educational office.\n\nIn 1951, her family (adding 3 children) moved to Hội An. Since 1952, she became a professor for schools Les Lauries, Tân Thịnh, Đạt Đức ... but the low salaries. So she continued as newspaper's collaborator. From 1954, pen name Bà Tùng Long has been familiar on categories \"Gỡ Rối Tơ Lòng\" (New Saigon Newspaper) and \"Tâm Tình Cởi Mở\" (Echo Newspaper). She was known much as a writer for women and their families.\n\nAfter the Geneva Conference, her family moved to Saigon. She was both a teacher and a newspaper's collaborator, example : Echo Newspaper, South Newspaper, Female Forum Newspaper, Future Female Newspaper, People Newspaper ... In 1960, she succeed in the election of Revolutionary Women Association's Secretary-General. She was also Quảng Ngãi Province's congresswoman. During 1960s, her earnings were 10 ounces for writings. To 1972, she declared for her setting pencil aside. In 2003, she re-appeared with her book \"Memoir of Bà Tùng Long\".\n\nA statistic, she published for 50 books, almost topics as family, love and women fate.\n\n"}
{"id": "14159166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14159166", "title": "Canchupati Venkatrao Venkaswami Rao", "text": "Canchupati Venkatrao Venkaswami Rao\n\nCanchupati Venkatrao Vencaswami Rao (తెలుగులో కంచుపాటి వేంకట్రావు వెంకస్వామి రావు), also known as Master C.V.V. (August 4, 1868 in Kumbakonam, Tamil Nadu, India – May 12, 1922) was a Yoga guru. His family name was Canchupati. He was born to a Niyogi family which had moved from Andhra Pradesh in the 14th or 15th century. He was educated in Kumbakonam and Srirangam. At age 12, he married Rukmini and they had three sons and a daughter. His wife died at age 36 and he married Venkamma at age 38 with whom he had another three daughters and a son.\n\nHe started \"Bhrukta Rahita Taraka Raja\" Yoga in 1910 with a goal to make changes to human format and to cosmic forces influencing human format in order to give eternal life to humanity. Some of his followers were Ekkirala Krishnamacharya and [master hanumantharao-warangal].\n\nFor more information about Master CVV and his Yoga, refer to his original literature as well as to the writings of his disciples, if those were in tune with the original writings. Some of His diaries and notes are available on www.mastercvv.com. and www.worldteachertrust.com\n\n"}
{"id": "6492079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6492079", "title": "Causal chain", "text": "Causal chain\n\nIn philosophy, a causal chain is an ordered sequence of events in which any one event in the chain causes the next. Some philosophers believe causation relates facts, not events, in which case the meaning is adjusted accordingly.\n\nSome philosophers believe that causality may not exist if determinism is true, as causality is merely the observation that one event precedes another, or that there is a pattern throughout spacetime in which events of one similar type tend to correlate with events of another similar type (that is, the mass-energy distribution in spacetime has an information theoretic 'pattern' where car crashes tend to be correlated with injury, say). There may be no ultimate reason for why a chain of causality occurs the way that it does beyond the fact that a chain of causality exists. The fact that certain events seem to 'cause' other events is the recognition of a pattern in the structure of spacetime and the mass-energy that exists in spacetime, which is ultimately either due OR an instantiation of the laws of physics. Note: Stating that causality does not exist may be a bit misleading, as one would have to Define what is meant by 'causality' - it may be that causality is dependent upon counterfactual definiteness, that is, A causes B because, if A did NOT occur, then B would not occur (i.e.: A is necessary for B) AND because A is sufficient for B. It may be possible that causality is ultimately a meaningless concept (if one rejects counterfactual definiteness for instance), but that causal chains are still a valid concept (as they would merely be chains of events).\n\n"}
{"id": "666270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666270", "title": "Christian mission", "text": "Christian mission\n\nA Christian mission is an organized effort to spread Christianity to new converts. Missions often involve sending individuals and groups, called missionaries, across boundaries, most commonly geographical boundaries, for the purpose of proselytism (conversion to Christianity, or from one Christian tradition to another). This involves evangelism (preaching a set of beliefs for the purpose of conversion), and humanitarian work, especially among the poor and disadvantaged. There are a few different kinds of mission trips: short-term, long-term, relational and ones meant simply for helping people in need. Some might choose to dedicate their whole lives to missions as well. Missionaries have the authority to preach the Christian faith (and sometimes to administer sacraments), and provide humanitarian work to improve . Christian doctrines (such as the \"Doctrine of Love\" professed by many missions) permit the provision of aid without requiring religious conversion.\n\nThe earliest Christian mission, then, the Great Commission and Dispersion of the Apostles, was active within Second Temple Judaism. Whether a Jewish proselytism existed or not that would have served as a model for the early Christians is unclear, see Circumcision controversy in early Christianity#Jewish background for details. Soon, the expansion of the Christian mission beyond Judaism to those who were not Jewish became a contested issue, notably at the Council of Jerusalem. The Apostle Paul was an early proponent of this expansion, and contextualized the Christian message for the Greek and Roman cultures, allowing it to reach beyond its Hebrew and Jewish roots.\n\nFrom Late Antiquity onward, much missionary activity was carried out by members of religious orders. Monasteries followed disciplines and supported missions, libraries, and practical research, all of which were perceived as works to reduce human misery and suffering and glorify the Christian God. For example, Nestorian communities evangelized parts of Central Asia, as well as Tibet, China, and India. Cistercians evangelized much of Northern Europe, as well as developing most of European agriculture's classic techniques. St Patrick evangelized many in Ireland. St David was active in Wales.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Ramon Llull (c. 1232 – c. 1315) advanced the concept of preaching to Muslims and converting them to Christianity by means of non-violent argument. A vision for large-scale mission to Muslims would die with him, not to be revived until the 19th Century.\n\nAdditional events can be found at the timeline of Christian missions.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages Christian monasteries and missionaries such as Saint Patrick, and Adalbert of Prague propagated learning and religion beyond the boundaries of the old Roman Empire. In the seventh century Gregory the Great sent missionaries, including Augustine of Canterbury, into England. The Hiberno-Scottish mission began in 563.\n\nIn the late thirteenth and early fourteenth centuries, Franciscans such as William of Rubruck, John of Montecorvino, and Giovanni ed' Magnolia were sent as missionaries to the Near and Far East. Their travels took them as far as China in an attempt to convert the advancing Mongols, especially the Great Khans of the Mongol Empire. (Also see Medieval Roman Catholic Missions in China.)\n\nOne of the main goals of the Christopher Columbus expedition financed by Queen Isabella of Spain was to spread Christianity. During the Age of Discovery, Spain and Portugal established many missions in their American and Asian colonies. The most active orders were the Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans and Dominicans. The Portuguese sent missions into Africa. These are some of the most well-known missions in history. While some of these missions were associated with imperialism and oppression, others (notably Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China) were relatively peaceful and focused on integration rather than cultural imperialism.\n\nIn both Portugal and Spain, religion was an integral part of the state and evangelization was seen as having both secular and spiritual benefits. Wherever these powers attempted to expand their territories or influence, missionaries would soon follow. By the Treaty of Tordesillas, the two powers divided the world between them into exclusive spheres of influence, trade and colonization. The proselytization of Asia became linked to Portuguese colonial policy.\n\nPortuguese trade with Asia rapidly proved profitable from 1499 onwards, and as Jesuits arrived in India around 1540, the colonial government in Goa supported the mission with incentives for baptized Christians. Later, the Church sent Jesuits to China (1552 onwards) and to other countries in Asia.\n\nThe Reformation unfolded in Europe in the early 16th century. For over a hundred years, occupied by their struggle with the Catholic Church, the early Protestant churches as a body were not strongly focused on missions to \"heathen\" lands. Instead, the focus was initially more on Christian lands in the hope to spread the Protestant faith, identifying the papacy with the Antichrist.\n\nIn the centuries that followed, Protestant churches began sending out missionaries in increasing numbers, spreading the proclamation of the Christian message to previously unreached people. In North America, missionaries to the Native Americans included Jonathan Edwards (1703–1758), the well-known preacher of the Great Awakening (ca 1731–1755), who in his later years retired from the very public life of his early career. He became a missionary to the Housatonic Native Americans (1751) and a staunch advocate for them against cultural imperialism.\n\nAs European culture has been established in the midst of indigenous peoples, the cultural distance between Christians of differing cultures has been difficult to overcome. One early solution was the creation of segregated \"praying towns\" of Christian natives. This pattern of grudging acceptance of converts played out again later in Hawaii when missionaries from that same New England culture went there. In the course of the Spanish colonization of the Americas, the Catholic missionaries learned the languages of the Amerindians and devised writing systems for them. Then they preached to indigenous people in those languages (Quechua, Guarani, Nahuatl) instead of Spanish, to keep Indians away from \"sinful\" whites. An extreme case of segregation occurred in the Guarani Reductions, a theocratic semi-independent region established by the Jesuits in the region of the future Paraguay between the early 17th century and 1767.\n\nFrom 1732 onwards the Moravian Church began sending out missionaries.\n\nAround 1780, an indigent Baptist cobbler named William Carey began reading about James Cook's travels voyages in Polynesia. His interest grew to a furious sort of \"backwards homesickness\", inspiring him to obtain Baptist orders, and eventually to write his famous 1792 pamphlet, \"An Enquiry into the Obligation of Christians to use Means for the Conversion of Heathen\". Far from a dry book of theology, Carey's work used the best available geographic and ethnographic data to map and count the number of people who had never heard the Gospel. It inspired a movement that has grown with increasing speed from his day to the present.\n\nIn the United States, the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (ABCFM) was chartered in 1812.\n\nProtestant missionaries from the Anglican and Lutheran and Presbyterian traditions starting arriving in what was then the Ottoman Empire in the first half of the 19th Century. This eventually let to the creation of what are today the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Jordan and the Holy Land and the see of the Anglican Bishop in Jerusalem. Furthermore, it was during this time that the Christian and Missionary Alliance started their missionary activity in Jerusalem.\n\nAmerican \"Hard-shell Baptists\", \"Anti-Mission Baptists\", or \"Old School Baptists\" adhering to strict Calvinist rejected all mission boards, Bible tract societies, and temperance societies as nonbiblical. The mainstream of the Baptist denomination, however, supported missionary work.\n\nThomas Coke, (1747–1814) the first bishop of the American Methodists, was \"the Father of Methodist Missions\". After spending time in the newly formed United States of America strengthening the infant Methodist Church alongside Episcopal colleague Francis Asbury, the British-born Coke left for mission work. During his time in America, Coke worked vigorously to increase Methodist support of Christian missions and of raising up mission workers. Coke died while on a mission trip to India, but his legacy among Methodists – his passion for missions – continues.\n\nA wave of missions, starting in the early 1850s, targeted inland areas, led by Hudson Taylor (1832–1905) with his China Inland Mission (1865– ). Taylor was later supported by Henry Grattan Guinness (1835–1910) who founded (1883) Cliff College, which continues to train and equip for local and global mission.\n\nThe missions inspired by Taylor and Guinness have collectively been called \"faith missions\" and owe much to the ideas and example of Anthony Norris Groves (1795–1853). Taylor, a thorough-going nativist, offended the missionaries of his era by wearing Chinese clothing and speaking Chinese at home. His books, speaking, and examples led to the formation of numerous inland missions and of the Student Volunteer Movement (SVM, founded in 1886), which from 1850 to about 1950 sent nearly 10,000 missionaries to inland areas, often at great personal sacrifice. Many early SVM missionaries traveling to areas with endemic tropical diseases left with their belongings packed in a coffin, aware that 80% of them would die within two years.\n\nIn the 18th century, and even more so in the 19th century, missionaries based in Britain saw the Empire as a fertile field for proselytizing for Christianity. All the main denominations were involved, including the Church of England, the Presbyterians of Scotland, and the Nonconformists. Much of the enthusiasm emerged from the Evangelical revival. Within the Church of England, the Church Mission Society (CMS) originated in 1799 and went on to undertake activity all around the world, including in what became known as \"the Middle East\".\n\nBefore the American Revolution, Anglican and Methodist missionaries were active in the 13 Colonies. The Methodists, led by George Whitefield, were the most successful and after the revolution and entirely distinct American Methodist denomination emerged that became the largest Protestant denomination in the new United States. A major problem for colonial officials was the demand of the Church of England to set up an American bishop; this was strongly opposed by most of the Americans had never happened. Increasingly colonial officials took a neutral position on religious matters, even in those colonies such as Virginia where the Church of England was officially established, but in practice controlled by laymen in the local vestries. After the Americans broke free, British officials decided to enhance the power and wealth of the Church of England in all the settler colonies, especially British North America (Canada).\n\nMissionary societies funded their own operations that were not supervised or directed by the Colonial Office. Tensions emerged between the missionaries and the colonial officials. The latter feared that missionaries might stir up trouble or encourage the natives to challenge colonial authority. In general, colonial officials were much more comfortable with working with the established local leadership, including the native religions, rather than introducing the divisive force of Christianity. This proved especially troublesome in India, were very few local elites were attracted to Christianity. In Africa, especially, the missionaries made many converts. Of the 21st century there were more Anglicans in Nigeria than in England.\n\nMissionaries increasingly came to focus on education, medical help, and long-term modernization of the native personality to inculcate European middle-class values. They established schools and medical clinics. Christian missionaries played a public role, especially in promoting sanitation and public health. Many were trained as physicians, or took special courses in public health and tropical medicine at Livingstone College, London.\n\nBy the 1870s Protestant missions around the world generally acknowledged the long-term material goal was the formation of independent, self-governing, self-supporting, self-propagating churches. The rise of nationalism in the Third World provoked challenges from critics who complained that the missionaries were teaching Western ways, and ignoring the indigenous culture. The Boxer Rebellion in China in 1898 involved very large scale attacks on Christian missions and their converts. The First World War diverted resources, and pulled most Germans out of missionary work when that country lost its empire. The worldwide Great Depression of the 1930s was a major blow to funding mission activities.\n\nIn 1910, the Edinburgh Missionary Conference was presided over by active SVM and YMCA leader (and future Nobel Peace Prize recipient) John R. Mott, an American Methodist layperson, the conference reviewed the state of evangelism, Bible translation, mobilization of church support, and the training of indigenous leadership. Looking to the future, conferees worked on strategies for worldwide evangelism and cooperation. The conference not only established greater ecumenical cooperation in missions, but also essentially launched the modern ecumenical movement.\n\nThe next wave of missions was started by two missionaries, Cameron Townsend and Donald McGavran, around 1935. These men realized that although earlier missionaries had reached geographic areas, there were numerous ethnographic groups that were isolated by language, or class from the groups that missionaries had reached. Cameron formed Wycliffe Bible Translators to translate the Bible into native languages. McGavran concentrated on finding bridges to cross the class and cultural barriers in places like India, which has upwards of 4,600 peoples, separated by a combination of language, culture, and caste. Despite democratic reforms, caste and class differences are still fundamental in many cultures.\n\nAn equally important dimension of missions strategy is the indigenous method of nationals reaching their own people. In Asia this wave of missions was pioneered by men like Dr G. D. James of Singapore, Rev Theodore Williams of India and Dr David Cho of Korea. The \"two thirds missions movement\" as it is referred to, is today a major force in missions.\n\nMost modern missionaries and missionary societies have repudiated cultural imperialism, and elected to focus on spreading the gospel and translating the Bible. Sometimes, missionaries have been vital in preserving and documenting the culture of the peoples among whom they live.\n\nOften, missionaries provide welfare and health services, as a good deed or to make friends with the locals. Thousands of schools, orphanages, and hospitals have been established by missions. One service provided by missionaries was the \"Each one, teach one\" literacy program begun by Dr. Frank Laubach in the Philippines in 1935. The program has since spread around the world and brought literacy to the least enabled members of many societies.\n\nDuring this period missionaries, especially evangelical and Pentecostal missionaries, witnessed a substantial increase in the number of conversions of Muslims to Christianity. In an interview published in 2013 a leader of a key missionary agency focused on Muslims claimed that the world is living in a \"day of salvation for Muslims everywhere.\"\n\nThe word \"mission\" was historically often applied to the building, the \"mission station\" in which the missionary lives or works. In some colonies, these mission stations became a focus of settlement of displaced or formerly nomadic people. Particularly in rural Australia, missions have become localities or ghettoes on the edges of towns which are home to many Indigenous Australians.\nThe word may be seen as derogatory when used in this context.\n\nAdditional events can be found at the timeline of Christian missions.\n\nMajor nations not only send and fund missionaries abroad, but also receive them from other countries. In 2010, the United States sent out 127,000 missionaries, while 32,400 came to the United States. Brazil was second, sending out 34,000, and receiving 20,000. France sent out 21,000 and received 10,000. Britain sent out 15,000 and received 10,000. India sent out 10,000 and received 8000. Other major exporters included Spain at 21,000 sent out, Italy at 20,000, South Korea at 20,000, Germany at 14,000, and Canada at 8,500. Large recipient nations included Russia, receiving 20,000; Congo receiving 15,000; South Africa, 12,000; Argentina, 10,000; and Chile, 8,500. The largest sending agency in the United States was the Southern Baptist Convention, with 4,800 missionaries, plus 450 support staff working inside the United States. The annual budget is about $50,000 per year per missionary. In recent years, however, the Southern Baptist foreign missionary operation (the International Mission Board) has operated at a deficit, and it is cutting operations by 15 percent. It is encouraging older missionaries to retire and return to the United States.\n\nThe Lausanne Congress of 1974, birthed a movement that supports evangelical mission among non-Christians and nominal Christians. It regards \"mission\" as that which is designed \"to form a viable indigenous church-planting and world changing movement.\" This definition is motivated by a theologically imperative theme of the Bible to make God known, as outlined in the Great Commission. The definition is claimed to summarize the acts of Jesus' ministry, which is taken as a model motivation for all ministries.\n\nThis Christian missionary movement seeks to implement churches after the pattern of the first century Apostles. The process of forming disciples is necessarily social. \"Church\" should be understood in the widest sense, as a body of believers of Christ rather than simply a building. In this view, even those who are already culturally Christian must be \"evangelized\".\n\nChurch planting by cross-cultural missionaries leads to the establishment of self-governing, self-supporting and self-propagating communities of believers. This is the famous \"three-self\" formula formulated by Henry Venn of the London Church Missionary Society in the 19th century. Cross-cultural missionaries are persons who accept church-planting duties to evangelize people outside their culture, as Christ commanded in the Great Commission (, ).\n\nThe objective of these missionaries is to give an understandable presentation of their beliefs with the hope that people will choose to following the teaching of Jesus Christ and live their lives as His disciples. As a matter of strategy, many evangelical Christians around the world now focus on what they call the \"10/40 window\", a band of countries between 10 and 40 degrees north latitude and reaching from western Africa through Asia. Christian missions strategist Luis Bush pinpointed the need for a major focus of evangelism in the \"10/40 Window\", a phrase he coined in his presentation at the missionary conference Lausanne 1989 in Manila. Sometimes referred to as the \"Resistant Belt\", it is an area that includes 35% of the world's land mass, 90% of the world's poorest peoples and 95% of those who have yet to hear anything about Christianity.\n\nModern mission techniques are sufficiently refined that within ten to fifteen years, most indigenous churches are locally pastored, managed, taught, self-supporting and evangelizing. The process can be substantially faster if a preexisting translation of the Bible and higher pastoral education are already available, perhaps left over from earlier, less effective missions.\n\nOne strategy is to let indigenous cultural groups decide to adopt Christian doctrines and benefits, when (as in most cultures) such major decisions are normally made by groups. In this way, opinion leaders in the groups can persuade much or most of the groups to convert. When combined with training in discipleship, church planting and other modern missionary doctrine, the result is an accelerating, self-propelled conversion of large portions of the culture.\n\nA typical modern mission is a co-operative effort by many different ministries, often including several coordinating ministries, such as the Faith2Share network, often with separate funding sources. One typical effort proceeded as follows:\n\n\nThe most crucial part of church planting is selection and training of leadership. Classically, leadership training required an expensive stay at a seminary, a Bible college. Modern church planters deprecate this because it substantially slows the growth of the church without much immediate benefit. Modern mission doctrines replace the seminary with programmed curricula or (even less expensive) books of discussion questions, and access to real theological books. The materials are usually made available in a major trading language in which most native leaders are likely to be fluent. In some cases, the materials can be adapted for oral use.\n\nIt turns out that new pastors' practical needs for theology are well addressed by a combination of practical procedures for church planting, discussion in small groups, and motivated Bible-based study from diverse theological texts. As a culture's church's wealth increases, it will naturally form classic seminaries on its own.\n\nAnother related mission is Bible translation. The above-mentioned literature has to be translated. Missionaries actively experiment with advanced linguistic techniques to speed translation and literacy. Bible translation not only speeds a church's growth by aiding self-training, but it also assures that Christian information becomes a permanent part of the native culture and literature. Some ministries also use modern recording techniques to reach groups with audio that could not be soon reached with literature.\n\nFor Catholics, “Missions” is the term given to those particular undertakings by which the heralds of the Gospel, sent out by the Church and going forth into the whole world, carry out the task of preaching the Gospel and planting the Church among peoples or groups who do not yet believe in Christ.\n\nVatican II made a deep impact on Catholic missions around the world. The Church's relations to non-Christian religions like Judaism and Islam were revisited.\n\nA steep decline in the number of people entering the priesthood and religious life in the West has made the Church look towards laity more and more. Communities like Opus Dei arose to meet this need.\n\nInculturation increasingly became a key topic of missiological reflection for Catholics. Inculturation is understood as the meeting of the Christian message with a community in their cultural context.\n\nLiberation Theology and liturgical reform have also been important in forming and influencing the mission of the Catholic Church in the 20th and 21st Centuries.\n\nIn relation to mission, Pope Benedict XVI has made the re-evangelization of Europe and North America a priority in his own ministry, even while the upper leadership of the Roman Catholic hierarchy and the college of cardinals has more members from Latin America, Africa, and Asia than ever before.\n\nKey documents on mission for Catholics during this period are \"Evangelii nuntiandi\" by Pope Paul VI and \"Redemptoris missio\" by Pope John Paul II.\n\nChristian mission organisations have long depended on the printed word as a channel through which to do mission. At times when countries have been \"closed\" to Christians, great efforts have been made to smuggle Bibles and other literature into those countries. Brother Andrew, the founder of Open Doors, started smuggling Bibles into communist countries in the 1950s. Operation Mobilisation was established in 1957 by George Verwer. Other Christian publishers, such as Plough Publishing, provide free books to people in the UK and US as a form of mission. The Bible Society translates and prints Bibles, in an attempt to reach every country in the world.\n\nThe internet now provides Christian mission organisations a convent way of reaching people in the form of podcasts. Podcasts provide a way of dissemination for a message that has potential to endanger the recipient, since it is very hard to track who has downloaded a specific podcast. An example of this is the Crescent Project. Other podcasts, such as the Life Together podcast, The Sacred, and Harvest are aimed at both non-Christians and Christians in the home country. \n\nObjections to missionary work among isolated, indigenous populations involve the claim that the goal of mission is to Westernize them. Such claims have been raised by indigenous rights groups organizations, such as Friends of Peoples Close to Nature and Survival International.\n\nMissionaries, along with other travelers, brought diseases into local populations. Smallpox, measles, even the common cold, have been blamed on their arrivals.\nDavid Igler of the University of California, Irvine, includes missionary activity as a cause of spreading germs. However, he says that commercial traders were the main agents of disease.\nPolitical scientist Robert Woodberry uses statistics to argue that conversionary Protestants were a crucial catalyst in spreading religious liberty, education, and democracy. He shows that statistically the prevalence of such missionaries account for half of the variance in democracy in Africa, Asia, Latin America and Oceania. In a 2014 \"Christianity Today\" article, he remarks, \"Areas where Protestant missionaries had a significant presence in the past are on average more economically developed today, with comparatively better health, lower infant mortality, lower corruption, greater literacy, higher educational attainment (especially for women), and more robust membership in nongovernmental associations.\"\n\nIn India, Hindu organisations such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh assert that most conversions undertaken by zealous evangelicals occur due to compulsion, inducement or fraud. In the Indian state of Tripura, the government has alleged financial and weapons-smuggling connections between Baptist missionaries and rebel groups such as the National Liberation Front of Tripura. The accused Tripura Baptist Christian Union is a member body of the Baptist World Alliance.\n\n\"In mid-May, the Vatican was also co-sponsoring a meeting about how some religious groups abuse liberties by proselytizing, or by evangelizing in aggressive or deceptive ways. Iraq ... has become an open field for foreigners looking for fresh converts. Some Catholic Church leaders and aid organizations have expressed concern about new Christian groups coming in and luring Iraqis to their churches with offers of cash, clothing, food or jobs... Reports of aggressive proselytism and reportedly forced conversions in mostly Hindu India have fueled religious tensions and violence there and have prompted some regional governments to pass laws banning proselytism or religious conversion... Sadhvi Vrnda Chaitanya, a Hindu monk from southern India, told CNS that India's poor and uneducated are especially vulnerable to coercive or deceptive methods of evangelization... Aid work must not hide any ulterior motives and avoid exploiting vulnerable people like children and the disabled, she said.\"\n\nIn an interview with Outlook Magazine, Sadhvi Vrnda Chaitanya said \"If the Vatican could understand that every religious and spiritual tradition is as sacred as Christianity, and that they have a right to exist without being denigrated or extinguished, it will greatly serve the interests of dialogue, mutual respect, and peaceful coexistence.\"\n\nWhile there is a general agreement among most major aid organizations not to mix aid with proselyting, others see disasters as a useful opportunity to spread the word. One such an occurrence was the tsunami that devastated parts of Asia on December 26, 2004.\n\nThe Christian Science Monitor echoes these concerns... \"'I think evangelists do this out of the best intentions, but there is a responsibility to try to understand other faith groups and their culture,\"' says Vince Isner, director of FaithfulAmerica.org, a program of the National Council of Churches USA.\"\n\nThe Bush administration has made it easier for U.S. faith-based groups and missionary societies to tie aid and church together.\n\nMissionaries say that the government in India has passed anti-conversion laws in several states that are supposedly meant to prevent conversions from \"force or allurement,\" but are primarily used, they say, to persecute and criminalize voluntary conversion due to the government's broad definition of \"force and allurement.\" Any gift received from a Christian in exchange for, or with the intention of, conversion is considered allurement. Voice of the Martyrs reports that aid-workers claim that they are being hindered from reaching people with much needed services as a result of this persecution. Alan de Lastic, Roman Catholic archbishop of New Delhi states that claims of forced conversion are false.\n\n\"'There are attacks practically every week, maybe not resulting in death, but still, violent attacks,' Richard Howell, general secretary of the Evangelical Fellowship of India tells The Christian Science Monitor today. 'They [India's controlling BJP party] have created an atmosphere where minorities do feel insecure.'\" According to Prakash Louis, director of the secular Indian Social Institute in New Delhi, \"We are seeing a broad attempt to stifle religious minorities and their constitutional rights...Today, they say you have no right to convert, Tomorrow you have no right to worship in certain places.\" Existing congregations, often during times of worship, are being persecuted. Properties are sometimes destroyed and burnt to the ground, while native pastors are sometimes beaten and left for dead.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28320658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28320658", "title": "Christopher Airay", "text": "Christopher Airay\n\nChristopher Airay (1601 – 18 October 1670) was an English preacher and a pioneer in English logic.\n\nAiray was born at Clifton in Westmoreland in 1600/01. Anthony Wood states that he became a student in The Queen's College, Oxford and earned a Master of Arts. In 1627 he was elected fellow. About this time he entered into holy orders, according to the statutes of the house, and became a preacher. He was created B.D. in 1642.\n\nAiray was presented to the living of Milford, Hampshire; where he died on St. Luke's Day, 1670, and was buried in the chancel of his church. His epitaph read:\n\n\"Memoriæ sacrum Christopheri Airay, S. T. Bac. olim Coll. Reg. Oxon. socii et hujus ecclesiæ Vicarii vigilantissimi, viri summæ integritatis, judicii acerrimi et ingenii literarum omnium capacis; qui difficillime seculo inter æstuantes rerum fluctus clavum rectum tenuit. Mortalitatem tandem exuit 18 Oct. annos natus 69.\" \n\nWhilst still at the university he published anonymously his one known book, viz.: ‘Fascicvlvs Præceptorvm Logicorvm in gratiam juventutis academicæ compositus et nunc primum typis donatus. Oxoniæ excudebat Gvlielmus Tvrner Academiæ Typographus. An. D. 1628. Cum Priuilegio’ (pp. 224). The printer signs the ‘Præfatio.’ The following are the main headings: Lib. 1, De Prædicabilibus; 2. De Anteprædicamentis; 3, De Propositione; 4. De Demonstratione; 5. De Syllogismo Topico; 6. De Syllogismo Sophistico. Logic is mixed with metaphysics. A second edition appeared in 1660.\n\n"}
{"id": "22701997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22701997", "title": "Circular reporting", "text": "Circular reporting\n\nCircular reporting or false confirmation is a situation in source criticism where a piece of information appears to come from multiple independent sources, but in reality comes from only one source. In many cases, the problem happens mistakenly through sloppy intelligence gathering practices. However, at other times the situation can be intentionally contrived by the original source as a way of reinforcing the widespread belief in its information.\n\nThis problem occurs in a variety of fields, including intelligence gathering, journalism, and scholarly research. It is of particular concern in military intelligence because the original source has a higher likelihood of wanting to pass on misinformation, and because the chain of reporting is more prone to being obscured. The case of the 2002 Niger uranium forgeries was a classic instance of circular reporting by intelligence agencies.\n\nWikipedia is sometimes criticized for being used as a source of circular reporting. Wikipedia advises researchers and journalists to , and instead focus on verifiable information found in an article's .\n\nIn the following examples, false claims were propagated on Wikipedia and in news sources because of circular reporting. Randall Monroe, in his comic xkcd, coined the term \"citogenesis\" to describe this phenomenon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1595404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595404", "title": "Codex Cumanicus", "text": "Codex Cumanicus\n\nThe Codex Cumanicus is a linguistic manual of the Middle Ages, designed to help Catholic missionaries communicate with the Cumans, a nomadic Turkic people. It is currently housed in the Library of St. Mark, in Venice (Cod. Mar. Lat. DXLIX).\n\nThe Codex likely developed over time. Mercantile, political, and religious leaders, particularly in Hungary, sought effective communication with the Cumans as early as the mid-11th century. As Italian city-states, such as Genoa, began to establish trade posts and colonies along the Black Sea coastline, the need for tools to learn the Kipchak language sharply increased.\n\nThe earliest parts of the Codex are believed to have originated in the 12th or 13th century. Substantial additions were likely made over time. The copy preserved in Venice is dated 11 July 1330 on fol. 1r (see Drimba, p. 35 and Schmieder in Schmieder/Schreiner, p. XIII). The Codex consists of a number of independent works combined into one. \n\nHistorians generally divide it into two distinct and independent parts. The first part, 1r-55v, is a practical handbook of the Kipchak tongue, containing a glossary of words in vulgar Italo-Latin and translations into Persian and Kipchak. This section has been styled the \"Italian Part\" or the \"Interpreter's Book\" of the Codex. Whether the Persian parts came through Kipchak intermediaries or whether Persian was a lingua franca for Mediterranean trade well known in Western Europe is a matter hotly debated by scholars.\n\nThe second folio, 56r-82v, is a collection of various religious texts including a translation of the Lord's Prayer and riddles in Kipchak, translated into Latin and Eastern Middle High German. This part of the Codex is referred to as the \"German\" or \"Missionary's Book\" and is believed to have been compiled by German Franciscans.\n\nThe Codex is generally regarded as accurate, but it differs slightly from other sources on Kipchak language.\n\nThe \"Cuman Riddles\" (CC, 119-120; 143-148) are a crucial source for the study of early Turkic folklore. Andreas Tietze referred to them as \"the earliest variants of riddle types that constitute a common heritage of the Turkic-speaking nations.\" Some of these riddles reached our days practically unchanged in Kazakh language. See examples below.\n\nAmong the riddles in the Codex are the following excerpts:\n\n\n\n\nThe Codex's Pater Noster reads:\n\n"}
{"id": "37514462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37514462", "title": "David Philipp", "text": "David Philipp\n\nDavid P. Philipp is an American-born biologist known for his work on conservation genetics, reproductive ecology, and the effects of angling on fish populations. He is a conservation geneticist and Director of the Fisheries Genetics Lab at the Illinois Natural History Survey, an Adjunct Professor at the University of Illinois, and the Chair of the Fisheries Conservation Foundation. Philipp has supervised a number of graduate students including Steven J. Cooke, Cory Suski, Derek Aday, Jeff Koppelman, Jana Svec, Jimmy Ludden, Dale Burkett, Sascha Danylchuk and Jeff Stein.\n\nPhilipp's research examines genetics, reproduction, and spatial ecology of fishes, and the effects of fisheries interactions on these dynamics in North America and the Caribbean. His early research examined centrarchid population genetics, gene expression, reproductive physiology, and strategies, heritability of fish behaviour, and life history strategies.\n\nMore recently, Philipp’s research has focused on the effects of fisheries interactions and environmental stressors on reproductive success, physiology, behavior, and survival of fishes.\n\nPhilipp's research revealed that populations of largemouth bass, \"Micropterus salmoides\", in most of North America composite a separate species from the Florida bass, \"M. floridanus\", in Florida, and that stocking programs introducing Florida bass outside their native range have detrimental genetic effects on largemouth bass populations. Another research program showed that angling targets individual largemouth bass with certain behavioural and physiological characteristics, and in the process can cause evolutionary change in populations including reduced parental care and reproductive success, as well as reduced angling success rates. Philipps is also involved with research programs in The Bahamas examining spatial ecology and the effects of fisheries interactions on bonefish.\n\nPhilipp is a co-founder and Chair of the Fisheries Conservation Foundation, a nonprofit organization founded in 2003 to promote the work of aquatic scientists, environmental professionals, and resource managers to policy makers and the public to ensure the sustainability of freshwater and marine ecosystems through well-informed management practices. Specific campaigns include: Flats Conservation, Rivers of Success, Shark Conservation, Coastal 2100, North American Black Bass Coalition, and Responsible Angling, which promote awareness and conservation for a wide range of environmentally and economically important fish species and habitats. The Foundation is also highly involved with conservation initiatives in The Bahamas, with projects including the Bahamas Flats Fishing Alliance that aims to assemble multiple stakeholders to promote the conservation of valuable flats fisheries, and The Island School Poster Series, which engages high school students in important current environmental issues.\n\nPhilipp, D. P. & Ridgway, M. S. (editors). Black Bass: Ecology, Conservation, and Management. American Fisheries Society. 740 pp. (2003).\n\nCooke, S. J. & Philipp, D. P. (editors). Centrarchid fishes: Diversity, Biology, and Conservation. John Wiley & Sons. 560 pp. (2009).\n\nParkos, J. J., Wahl. D. H., & Philipp, D. P. Influence of behavior and mating success on brood-specific contribution to fish recruitment. Ecological Applications 21, 2576–2586 (2011).\n\nBrooks, E. J., et al. The physiological response of the Caribbean reef shark (Carcharhinus perezi) to longline capture. Comparative Biochemistry and Physiology Part A, 159, 1–6 (2011)\n\nBarthel, B. L. et al. Genetic relationships among populations of Florida bass. Transactions of the American Fisheries Society 139, 1615–1641 (2010). \nPhilipp, D. P. et al. Selection for vulnerability to angling in largemouth bass. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 138, 189–199 (2009).\n\nCooke, S. J., Suski, C. D., Ostrand, K. G., Wahl, D. H. & Philipp, D. P. Physiological and behavioral consequences of long-term artificial selection for vulnerability to recreational angling in a teleost fish. Physiological and Biochemical Zoology 80, 480–490 (2007).\n\nCooke, S. J. & Philipp, D. P. Behavior and mortality of caught-and-released bonefish (Albula spp.) in Bahamian waters with implications for a sustainable recreational fishery. Biol. Conserv. 118, 599–607 (2004).\n\n1997 Jennings, M. J., Claussen, J. E., & Philipp, D. P. Effect of population size structure on reproductive investment of male bluegill. N. Am. J. Fish. Manage 17, 516–524 (1997).\n\nPhilipp, D. P., Toline, C. A., Philipp, D. B. F., & Phelan, F.P. The impact of catch-and-release angling on the reproductive success of smallmouth bass and largemouth bass. N. Am. J. Fish. Manage. 17, 557–567 (1997).\n\nPhilipp, D. P. Genetic implications of introducing Florida largemouth bass. Can. J. Fish Aq. Sci. 48, 58–65 (1991).\n\nPhilipp, D. P., Childers, W. F. & Whitt, G. S. A biochemical genetic evaluation of the northern and Florida subspecies of largemouth bass. Trans. Am. Fish. Soc. 112, 1–20 (1983).\n"}
{"id": "37134351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37134351", "title": "Dream board", "text": "Dream board\n\nA dream board or vision board is a collage of images, pictures and affirmations of one's dreams and desires, designed to serve as a source of inspiration and motivation, and to use the law of attraction to attain goals. The usefulness of vision boards has been endorsed by celebrities such as Oprah Winfrey and Steve Harvey.\n\nThere is some evidence that vision boards may be counterproductive, since continually fantasizing about success can lead to taking fewer actions to realizing it. Thus, an \"action board\" is sometimes viewed as a better alternative.\n"}
{"id": "183749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183749", "title": "Duty", "text": "Duty\n\nA duty (from \"due\" meaning \"that which is owing\"; , past participle of \"devoir\"; , whence \"debt\") is a commitment or expectation to perform some action in general or if certain circumstances arise. A duty may arise from a system of ethics or morality, especially in an honor culture. Many duties are based created by law, sometimes including a codified punishment or liability for non-performance. Performing one's duty may require some sacrifice of self-interest.\n\nCicero, an early Roman philosopher who discusses duty in his work “On Duty\", suggests that duties can come from four different sources:\n\nThe specific duties imposed by law or culture vary considerably, depending on jurisdiction, religion, and social norms.\n\nDuty is also often perceived as something owed to one’s country (patriotism), or to one's homeland or community. Civic duties could include:\n\n\nSpecific obligations arise in the services performed by a minister of a church, by a soldier, or by any employee or servant.\n\nExamples:\n\nExamples of legal duties include:\n\nIn most cultures, children are expected to take on duties in relation to their families. This may take the form of behaving in such a way that upholds the family’s honor in the eyes of the community, entering into arranged marriages that benefit the family’s status, or caring for ailing relatives. This family-oriented sense of duty is a particularly central aspect to the teachings of Confucius, and is known as xiao, or filial piety. As such, the duties of filial piety have played an enormous role in the lives of people in eastern Asia for centuries. For example, the painting \"Lady Feng and the Bear\", from ancient China, depicts the heroic act of a consort of the emperor placing herself between her husband and a rampaging bear. This is meant to be taken as an example of admirable filial behavior. Filial piety is considered so important that in some cases, it outweighs other cardinal virtues: In a more modern example, \"concerns with filial piety of the same general sort that motivate women to engage in factory work in Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, and elsewhere in Asia are commonly cited by Thai prostitutes as one of their primary rationales for working in the skin trade\". The importance of filial piety can be expressed in this quote from \"The Analects of Confucius\": \"Yu Tzu said, 'It is rare for a man whose character is such that he is good as a son and obedient as a young man to have the inclination to transgress against his superiors; it is unheard of for one who has no such inclination to be inclined to start a rebellion. The gentleman devotes his efforts to the roots, for once the roots are established, the Way will grow there from. Being good as a son and obedient as a young man is, perhaps, the root of a man's character'\".\n\nDuty varies between different cultures and continents. Duty in Asia and Latin America is commonly more heavily weighted than in Western culture. According to a study done on attitudes toward family obligation:\nThe deeply rooted tradition of duty among both Asian and Latin American cultures contributes to much of the strong sense of duty that exists in comparison to western cultures. Michael Peletz discusses the concept of duty in his book \"Gender, Sexuality, and Body Politics in Modern Asia\":\nAn arranged marriage is an example of an expected duty in Asia and the Middle East. In an arranged marriage relating to duty, it is expected that the wife will move in with the husband’s family and household to raise their children. Patrilocal residence is usual; rarely does the man move in with the woman, or is the married couple allowed to start their own household and life somewhere else. They need to provide for the entire family in labor and care for the farms and family. Older generations rely heavily on the help from their children's and grandchildren's families. This form of duty is in response to keeping the lineage of a family intact and obliging to the needs of elders.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche is among the fiercest critics of the concept of duty. \"What destroys a man more quickly\", he asks, \"than to work, think, and feel without inner necessity, without any deep personal desire, without pleasure—as a mere automaton of “duty”?\" (\"The Antichrist\", § 11)\n\nNietzsche claims that the task of all higher education is \"to turn men into machines\". The way to turn men into machines is to teach them to tolerate boredom. This is accomplished, Nietzsche says, by means of the concept of duty. (\"Twilight of the Idols\", “Skirmishes of an untimely man” § 9.29)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22065086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22065086", "title": "Eero Loone", "text": "Eero Loone\n\nEero Loone (born 26 May 1935 in Tartu) is an Estonian philosopher. \n\nHe is the son of Nigolas Loone and Leida Loone. \n\nEero Loone graduated from the Moscow State University in 1958 (he studied history). From 1958 to 1960, Loone worked as junior researcher at the USSR institute of Global Economy and International Relations. Since 1966, he has been lecturer of philosophy (specializing in practical philosophy) at the University of Tartu (became a professor in 1988). He became Doctor of Philosophy in 1984. From 1989 to 1990 Eero Loone worked at Clare Hall, Cambridge (he became lifelong member of the college). He has been particularly influenced by analytical philosophy. Loone's views on Marxism and historical materialism have found resonance in the West. According to Varoufakis, Loone's verdict (as evident in \"Soviet Marxism and Analytical Philosophies of History\") on Soviet Communism is arguably \"devastating and coincides with that of many Western scholars Marxist (e.g. Alex Callinicos) and non-Marxist (e.g. Alec Nove) alike″ Since 2000, Loone has been professor emeritus at the University of Tartu. \n\nEero Loone is married to Leiki Loone and has two daughters: Piret Loone and Oudekki Loone (a political scientist and member of Estonian Parliament Riigikogu since 2015).\n\n"}
{"id": "3698902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3698902", "title": "Ethical formalism", "text": "Ethical formalism\n\nEthical formalism is a type of ethical theory which defines moral judgments in terms of their logical form (e.g., as \"laws\" or \"universal prescriptions\") rather than their content (e.g., as judgments about what actions will best promote human well-being). The term also often carries critical connotations. Kant, for example, has been criticized for defining morality in terms of the formal feature of being a \"universal law\", and then attempting to derive from this formal feature various concrete moral duties.\n\nEthical formalism is related to, but not identical to, Harry J. Gensler's relatively recent (circa 1996) theory of formal ethics. Formal ethics is similar to ethical formalism in that it focuses on formal features of moral judgments, but is distinct in that the system of formal ethics is explicitly (and intentionally) incomplete. Specifically, while some ethical formalist systems (e.g., arguably Kant's \"universal laws\") view a set of formal features as both necessary and sufficient, formal ethics views such formal features as necessary but not sufficient.\n\nEthical formalism is \"considered as an absolutist system, if something is wrong, it is wrong all the time\" (Pollock, 2004). Just the same, if something is right, it is then right all the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "26940228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26940228", "title": "Euthalian Apparatus", "text": "Euthalian Apparatus\n\nThe Euthalian Apparatus is a collection of additional editorial material, such as divisions of text, lists, and summaries, to the New Testament's Book of Acts, Catholic epistles, and Pauline epistles. This additional material appears at the beginnings of books, in the margin of the text, and at the ends of books, as well as in line and paragraph separations. This material is traditionally associated with the name of Euthalius.\n\nEuthalius divided the text of the Acts and Catholic epistles into chapters, with a summary of contents at the top of each chapter. To Euthalius were also referred a division of the Acts into 16 αναγνωσεις (\"lessons\") and of the Pauline epistles into 31 sections. But these lessons are quite different. Euthalius prepared also the text of the Acts and Epistles in which text is written stichometrically.\n\nTo the Euthalian Apparatus belong: a chronology of the Apostle Paul, the martyrdom of Paul, a list of places at which the Epistles were thought to be written, and the names associated with Paul in the headings to the Epistles. The quotations from the Old Testament cited in the Pauline epistles are numbered and catalogued in a list. Overall, the Apparatus is a collection of varied aids for the reader.\n\nThe Euthalian Apparatus is contained in numerous manuscripts: Codex Mutinensis, Codex Basilensis A. N. IV. 2, Codex Argenteus, Minuscule 3, 5, 6, 35, 38, and many other medieval manuscripts of the New Testament.\n\nThe Euthalian apparatus has variously been dated to between the 4th and 7th centuries.\n\nJames Marchand argued that the Euthalian apparatus probably dated to the first half of the 4th century, arguing that the original must precede its incorporation into Gothic, Armenian, and Syriac translations.\n\nThe Greek texts do not include the Euthalian apparatus until relatively late, but Armenian and Syriac texts incorporated it by the late 5th or early 6th century, with Gothic texts including it by the early/mid 6th century. The Greek Codex Coislinianus includes it in the 6th century. James Marchand argued that either Wulfila/Ulfilas had incorporated the Euthalian matter into the Gothic text in the mid 4th century, or Sunnia and Frethela had done so in the early 5th century, with Wulfila/Ulfilas being more likely.\n\nThe authorship usually is attributed to one Euthalius. He was identified as Bishop of Sulci in Sardinia, but according to Tregelles he was a Bishop of Sulca in Egypt. According to Wake and L. A. Zacagni Euthalius was a Bishop of Sulce, near Syene.\n\nIt was suggested that the name of the real author of the Apparatus was Evagrius. According to John Mill it was Theodore of Mopsuestia. Hermann von Soden thought, that Euthalius lived in the 7th century, possibly in Antioch.\n\nBruce M. Metzger stated: \"How much of this supplementary material was drawn up by Euthalius and how much was added later is not known.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32826751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32826751", "title": "Foma (software)", "text": "Foma (software)\n\nFoma is a free and open source \"finite-state toolkit\" created and maintained by Mans Hulden. It includes a compiler, programming language, and C library for constructing finite-state automata and transducers (FST's) for various uses, most typically Natural Language Processing uses such as morphological analysis.\n\nFoma can replace the proprietary Xerox Finite State Toolkit for compiling and running FST's written in the \"lexc\" and \"xfst\" formalisms. The speed is comparable with the Xerox tools for most lexicons, although foma can be 3 or 4 times slower for very large lexicons (e.g. >100,000 words). Foma is also one of the possible backends of the free and open source Helsinki Finite State Toolkit (where other backends provide support for further formalisms).\n\nThere are several FOSS morphologies written in lexc/xfst compatible with foma, e.g. for the Sámi, Cornish, Faroese, Finnish, Komi, Mari, Udmurt, Buriat, Greenlandic language and Iñupiaq languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7547606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7547606", "title": "Gaetano Sanseverino", "text": "Gaetano Sanseverino\n\nGaetano Sanseverino (1811 – 16 November 1865) was an Italian philosopher and theologian. He made a comparative study including the scholastics, particularly St. Thomas Aquinas, and of the connection between their doctrine and that of the church fathers.\n\nGaetano Sanseverino was born in 1811 in Naples.\n\nGaetano made his studies in the seminary in Nola, where his uncle was rector. After his ordination, he continued the study of philosophy, with the special view of comparing the various systems. Gaetano also became a canon of the cathedral of Naples, professor of logic and metaphysics in the seminary, substitute professor of ethics in the university, and eventually scrittore in the National Library.\n\nSanseverino had been educated in the Cartesian system, which at that time prevailed in the ecclesiastical schools of Italy, but his comparative study of the various systems supplied him with a deeper knowledge of the scholastics, particularly St. Thomas Aquinas, and of the intimate connection between their doctrine and that of the church fathers. From that time until the end of his life, his only concern was the restoration of Christian philosophy, in which by his writings, lectures and conversation, he was of supreme assistance to Pope Leo XIII. With this object, in 1840, he founded \"La Scienza e la Fede\", a periodical which was continued until 1887 by his disciples and associates, Signoriello and d'Amelio.\n\nGaetano Sanseverino died in Naples of cholera on 16 November 1865, at age 54.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15758679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15758679", "title": "Great Vow Zen Monastery", "text": "Great Vow Zen Monastery\n\nGreat Vow Zen Monastery was founded in 2002 and is operated by Zen Community of Oregon (ZCO) under the leadership of abbots Chozen Bays, Roshi, and Hogen Bays. The monastery offers weekend workshops, weeklong meditation retreats, and special events throughout the year.\n\nGreat Vow Zen Monastery is a training monastery in the White Plum lineage of the Japanese Soto Zen tradition. It is headed by Abbots Hogen Bays and Jan Chozen Bays.\n\nThe monastery is housed in a former elementary school on of land overlooking the Columbia River floodplain near Clatskanie, Oregon. Two former classroom \"pods\" serve as dormitory wings for residents and visitors. Administrative offices and the meditation hall occupy the center of the building. Four unroofed courtyards punctuate the building.\n\nThe monastery building is surrounded by a meadow dotted with large conifers. A wooded area with walking trails sits behind the building.\n\nThe overall style of training at the monastery is primarily in the Soto Zen vein, but incorporates elements from various schools of Buddhism, as well as from other disciplines.\n\nThe daily training schedule, which is followed by all residents, includes a wakeup bell at 3:50 a.m., two hours of meditation, a bowing and chanting service, breakfast, and two periods of work. Lunch and dinner are both preceded by a short religious service. Two hours of meditation in the evening end the day. The schedule may be modified at various times of year, or to accommodate special events or classes.\n\nWeekend workshops are offered several times a month. Weeklong meditation intensives are held monthly.\n\nVisiting teachers often lead or co-lead meditation retreats or weekend workshops at the monastery, sometimes on a recurring annual basis. Among them are Buddhist teachers Kyogen Carlson and Gyokuko Carlson; Ejo Patrick McMullen; Lama Michael Conklin; Alan Wallace; and Ajahn Amaro.\n\nGreat Vow also offers ordination and full-time residential training as a Soto Zen Buddhist priest.\n\nThe bodhisattva known as Jizo (in the Japanese tradition; Kṣitigarbha in Sanskrit) has an important role at Great Vow. Practice with Jizo Bodhisattva includes daily chanting of the Jizo mantra; manufacture of Jizo images for sale; a meditation retreat; biannual ceremonies for children and loved ones who have died; and a yearly Jizo-Bon festival event in August.\n\nThe monastery is sustained by the members of ZCO, which includes a substantial lay congregation that meets for sitting meditation in Portland, and a handful of associated satellite groups in Oregon and Washington.\n\nThe monastery is also supported by fundraising efforts; donations from visitors; retreat and workshop fees; and the sale of meditation supplies and Buddhist images.\n\nGreat Vow Zen Monastery has a Sunday morning public program at 10 a.m., which consists of a short service followed by meditation, a talk given by one of the teachers, and lunch.\n\nVisitors may arrange a short-term stay at the monastery.\n\nBoth monastery residents and short-term visitors sleep in gender-specific dormitories of several beds to a room. All meals are vegetarian.\n\n"}
{"id": "14063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14063", "title": "Hugh Binning", "text": "Hugh Binning\n\nHugh Binning (1627–1653) was a Scottish philosopher and theologian. Binning was born in Scotland during the reign of Charles I, ordained in the (Presbyterian) Church of Scotland and died during the time of Oliver Cromwell and the Commonwealth of England.\n\nA precocious child, Binning at age 13 was admitted to the study of philosophy at the University of Glasgow. By the age of 19, he was appointed regent and professor of philosophy at the University of Glasgow. Three years later, he was called to be minister and presided at a church in Govan, adjacent to the city of Glasgow; a post he held until his untimely death of consumption at the age of 26. He was a follower of James Dalrymple. In later life he was well known as an evangelical Christian.\n\nHugh Binning was born two years after Charles I ascended to the thrones of England, Ireland, and Scotland. At the time, each was an independent country sharing the same monarch. The Acts of Union 1707 integrated Scotland and England to form the Kingdom of Great Britain; the Acts of Union 1800 integrated Ireland to form United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland.\n\nThe period was dominated by both political and religious strife between the three independent countries. The religious dispute centered on whether religion was to be dictated by the monarch or was to be the choice of the people; whether people have a direct relationship with God or they needed to use an intermediary. The civil disputes centered on the extent of the king's power, a question of the Divine right of kings; specifically whether the King has right to raise taxes and armed forces without the Consent of the governed. These wars ultimately changed the relationship between king and subjects.\n\nIn 1638 the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland voted to remove bishops and the Book of Common Prayer that had been introduced by Charles I to impose the Anglican model on the Presbyterian Church of Scotland. Public riots occurred. The result was the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, an interrelated series of conflicts that took place in the three countries sharing the same monarch. The first of the conflicts was in 1639, the First of the Bishops' Wars, a single border skirmish between England and Scotland; also known as \"the war the armys did not wanted to fight.\"\n\nTo maintain his English power base Charles I made secret alliances with Catholic Ireland and Presbyterian Scotland to invade Anglican England, promising that each country could establish their own separate state religion. Once these secret entreaties became known to the English Long Parliament, the Congregationalist faction (of which Oliver Cromwell was a primary spokesman) took matters into their own hands and Parliament established an army separate from the King. Then, Charles I was executed in January 1649, which led to the rule of Cromwell and the establishment of the Commonwealth. The conflicts concluded with The English Restoration of the monarchy with the return of Charles II, in 1660.\n\nThe Act of Classes was passed by the Parliament of Scotland on 23 January 1649; the act banned Royalists (people supporting the monarchy) from holding political or military office. In exile, Charles II signed the Treaty of Breda (1650) with the Scottish Parliament; among other things, the treaty established Presbyterianism as the national religion. Charles was crowned King of Scots at Scone in January 1651. By September 1651 Scotland was annexed by England, its legislative institutions abolished, Presbyterianism dis-established, and Charles was forced into exile in France.\n\nThe Scottish Parliament rescinded the Act of Classes in 1651, which produced a split within Scottish Society. The sides of the conflict were called the Resolutioners (who supported the rescission of the act – supported the monarchy and the Scottish House of Stewart) and the Protesters (who supported Cromwell and the Commonwealth); Binning sided with the Protestors.\n\nWhen Cromwell sent troops to Scotland, he was also attempting to dis-establish Presbyterianism and the Church of Scotland, Binning spoke against Cromwell's act. On Saturday 19 April 1651, Cromwell entered Glasgow and the next day he heard a sermon by three ministers who condemned Cromwell for invading Scotland. That evening, Cromwell summoned those ministers and others, to a debate on the issue. At the debate, Rev Hugh Binning is said to have out-debated Cromwell's ministers so completely that he silenced Cromwell's ministers.\n\nHugh Binning political views were based on his theology. Binning was a Covenanter, a movement that began in Scotland at Greyfriars Kirkyard in 1638 with the National Covenant and continued with the 1643 Solemn League and Covenant – in effect a treaty between the English Long Parliament and Scotland for the preservation of the reformed religion in exchange for troops to confront the threat of Irish Catholic troops joining the Royalist army. Binning could also be described as a Protestor; both political positions were taken because of their religious implications. However, he saw the evils of the politics of his day was not a “fomenter of factions” writing “A Treatise of Christian Love” as a response.\n\nBecause of the turmoil time in which Hugh Binning lived, politics and religion were inexorably intertwined. Binning was a Calvinist and follower of John Knox. As a profession, Binning was trained as a Philosopher, and he believed that philosophy was the servant of theology. He thought that both Philosophy and Theology should be taught in parallel. Binning's writing, which are primarily a collection of his sermons, “forms an important bridge between the 17th century, when philosophy in Scotland was heavily dominated by Calvinism, and the 18th century when figures such as Francis Hutcheson re-asserted a greater degree of independence between the two and allied philosophy with the developing human sciences.”\nReligiously, Hugh Binning was, what we would call today, an Evangelical Calvinist. He spoke on the primacy of God's love as the ground of salvation: \n\nWith regards to the extent of the ‘atonement’, Hugh Binning, did not hold that the offer of redemption applied only to the few that are elect but said that “the ultimate ground of faith is in the electing will of God.” In Scotland during the 1600s the questions concerning atonement revolved around the terms in which the offer was expressed.\n\nBinning believed that \"forgiveness is based on Christ's death, understood as a satisfaction and as a sacrifice: 'If he had pardoned sin without any satisfaction what rich grace it had\nbeen! But truly, to provide the Lamb and sacrifice himself, to find out\nthe ransom, and to exact it of his own Son, in our name, is a testimony\nof mercy and grace far beyond that. But then, his justice is very conspicuous\nin this work.'\"\n\nAll of the works of Hugh Binning were published posthumously and were primarily collections of his sermons. Of his speaking style, it was said: \"There is originality without any affectation, a rich imagination, without anything fanciful or extravert, the utmost simplicity, without an thing mean or trifling.\" \n\n\nHugh Binning was the son of John Binning and Margaret M'Kell. Margaret was the daughter of Rev. Matthew M'Kell,\nwho was a minister in the parish of Bothwell, Scotland, and sister of Hugh M'Kell, a minister in Edinburgh.\nHugh Binning was born on the estate of his father in Dalvennan, Straiton, in the shire of Ayr. The family owned other land in the parishes of Straiton and Colmonell as well as Maybole in Carrick. \nIn 1645, James Dalrymple, 1st Viscount of Stair, who was Hugh's master (primary professor) in the study of philosophy, announced he was retiring from the University of Glasgow. After a national search for a replacement on the faculty, three men were selected to compete for the position. Hugh was one of those selected, but was at a disadvantage because of his extreme youth and because he was not of noble birth. However, he had strong support from the existing faculty, who suggested that the candidates speak extemporaneously on any topic of the candidate's choice. After hearing Hugh speak, the other candidates withdrew, making Hugh a regent and professor of philosophy, while he was still 18 years old.\n\nOn 7 February 1648 (at the age of 21) Hugh was appointed an Advocate before the Court of Sessions (an attorney). In the same year he married Barbara Simpson (sometimes called Mary), daughter of Rev. James Simpson a minister in Ireland. Their son, John, was born in 1650.\n\nHugh died around September 1653 and was buried in the churchyard of Govan, where Patrick Gillespie, then principal of the University of Glasgow, ordered a monument inscribed in Latin, roughly translated: \n\nHugh's widow, Barbara (sometimes called Mary), then remarried James Gordon, an Anglican priest at Cumber in Ireland. Together they had a daughter, Jean who married Daniel MacKenzie, who was on the winning side of the Battle of Bothwell Bridge serving as an ensign under Lieutenant-Colonel William Ramsay (who became the third Earl of Dalhousie), in the Earl of Mar's Regiment of Foot.\n\nHugh's son, John Binning, married Hanna Keir, who was born in Ireland. The Binning's were Covenanters, a resistance movement that objected to the return of Charles II (who was received into the Catholic Church on his deathbed). They were on the losing side in the 1679 Battle of Bothwell Bridge. Most of the rebels who were not executed were exiled to the Americas; about 30 Covenanters were exiled to the Carolinas on the Carolina Merchant in 1684. After the battle, John and Hanna were separated. \nIn the aftermath of the battle at Bothwell Bridge, Hugh's widow (now Barbara Gordon) tried to reclaim the family estate at Dalvennan by saying that John and his wife owed his step father a considerable some of money. The legal action was successful and Dalvennan became the possession of John's half sister Jean, and her husband Daniel MacKenzie. In addition, Jean came into possession Hanna Keir's property in Ireland.\n\nBy 1683, Jean was widowed. John Binning was branded a traitor, was sentenced to death and forfeited his property to the Crown. John's wife (Hanna Keir) was branded as a traitor and forfeited her property in Ireland. In 1685 Jean \"donated\" the Binning family's home at Dalvennan and other properties, along with the Keir properties to Roderick MacKenzie, who was a Scottish advocate of James II (James VII of Scotland), and the baillie of Carrick. According to an act of the Scottish Parliament, Roderick MacKenzie was also very effective in “suppressing the rebellious, fanatical party in the western and other shires of this realm, and putting the laws to vigorous execution against them”\n\nSince Bothwell Bridge, Hanna had been hiding from the authorities. In 1685 Hanna was in Edinburgh where she was found during a sweep for subversives and imprisoned in the Tolbooth of Edinburgh, a combination city hall and prison. Those arrested with Hanna were exiled to North America, however she developed Dysentery and remained behind. By 1687, near death, Hanna petitioned the Privy Council of Scotland for her release; she was exiled to her family in Ireland, where she died around 1692.\nIn 1690 the Scottish Parliament rescinded John's fines and forfeiture, but he was not able to recover his family's estates, the courts suggesting that John had relinquished his claim to Dalvennan in exchange for forgiveness of debt, rather than forfeiture.\n\nThere is little documentation about John after his wife's death. John received a small income from royalties on his father Hugh's works after parliament extended copyrights on Hugh's writings to him. However, the income was not significant and John made several petitions to the Scottish parliament for money, the last occurring in 1717. It is thought that John died in Somerset county, in southwestern England. \n\n"}
{"id": "2321651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321651", "title": "Japanese values", "text": "Japanese values\n\nJapanese values are cultural assumptions and ideals particular to Japanese culture. The honne/tatemae divide between public expression and private thoughts/feelings is considered to be of paramount importance in Japanese culture. In Japanese mythology, the gods display human emotions, such as love and anger. In these stories, behaviour that results in positive relations with others is rewarded, and empathy, identifying oneself with another, is highly valued. By contrast, those actions that are individualistic or antisocial (those that harm others) are condemned. Hurtful behaviour is punished in the myths by ostracizing the offender.\n\nNo society can exist that does not manage and integrate antisocial behavior, Japanese children learn from their earliest days that human fulfillment comes from close association with others. Children learn early to recognize that they are part of an interdependent society, beginning in the family and later extending to larger groups such as neighborhood, school, playground, community, and company. Dependence on others is a natural part of the human condition; it is viewed negatively only when the social obligations (giri) it creates are too onerous to fulfill, leading to, for example, suicide, which is a topic of great elaboration in Japanese history and culture. However, in the early part of the 21st century, school bullying has become a topic of very great concern.\n\nIn interpersonal relationships, most Japanese tend to avoid open competition and confrontation. Working with others requires self-control, but it carries the rewards of pride in contributing to the group, emotional security, and social identity. Wa (), the notion of harmony within a group, requires an attitude of cooperation and a recognition of social roles. If each individual in the group understands personal obligations and empathizes with the situations of others, then the group as a whole benefits. Success can come only if all put forth their best individual efforts. Decisions are often made only after consulting with everyone in the group. Consensus does not imply that there has been universal agreement, but this style of consultative decision-making involves each member of the group in an information exchange, reinforces feelings of group identity, and makes implementation of the decision smoother. Cooperation within a group also is often focused on competition between that group and a parallel one, whether the issue is one of educational success or market share. Symbols such as uniforms, names, banners, and songs identify the group as distinct from others both to outsiders and to those within the group. Participation in group activities, whether official or unofficial, is a symbolic statement that an individual wishes to be considered part of the group. Thus, after-work bar hopping provides not only instrumental opportunities for the exchange of information and release of social tensions but also opportunities to express nonverbally a desire for continued affiliation.\n\nWorking in a group in Japan requires the development of successful channels of communication, which reinforce group interdependence, and the sense of difference from those who are not members of the group. Yet social interaction beyond that which occurs with individuals with whom one lives and works is a necessity in contemporary society. If the exchange is brief and relatively insignificant, such as buying a newspaper, anonymity will be maintained. But if the relationship is expected to continue over a long period, whether in business, marriage, employment, or neighborhood, great care is likely to be invested in establishing and maintaining good relationships. Such relationships are often begun by using the social networks of a relative, friend, or colleague who can provide an introduction to the desired person or serve as . The nakoudo most often refers to the person (or people) who negotiates marriage arrangements, including checking each family's background, conveying questions and criticisms, and smoothing out difficulties. But this kind of personal mediation is common in many aspects of Japanese life.\n\n\n - Library of Congress Country Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "582687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=582687", "title": "Jnana", "text": "Jnana\n\nIn Indian philosophy and religion, jñāna (Sanskrit, pronounced gya:nə) (Pali: \"ñāṇa\") or gyan/gian (Hindi: \"jñān\") is \"knowledge\".\n\nThe idea of jnana centers on a cognitive event which is recognized when experienced. It is knowledge inseparable from the total experience of reality, especially a total or divine reality (Brahman). \n\nThe root jñā- is cognate to English \"know\", as well as to the Greek γνώ- (as in γνῶσις \"gnosis\") and Russian \"знание\". Its antonym is \"ajñāna\" \"ignorance\".\n\nIn Tibetan Buddhism, it refers to pure awareness that is free of conceptual encumbrances, and is contrasted with vijnana, which is a moment of 'divided knowing'. Entrance to, and progression through the ten stages of Jnana/Bhimis, will lead one to complete enlightenment and nirvana.\n\nIn the Vipassanā tradition of Buddhism there are the following ñanas according to Mahasi Sayadaw. As a person meditates these ñanas or \"knowledges\" will be experienced in order. The experience of each may be brief or may last for years and the subjective intensity of each is variable. Each ñana could also be considered a jhāna although many are not stable and the mind has no way to remain embedded in the experience. Experiencing all the ñanas will lead to the first of the Four stages of enlightenment then the cycle will start over at a subtler level.\n\nSahu explains:\nJnana yoga (Yoga of Knowledge) is one of the three main paths (margas), which are supposed to lead towards moksha (liberation) from material miseries. The other two main paths are Karma yoga and Bhakti Yoga. Rāja yoga (classical yoga) which includes several yogas, is also said to lead to moksha. It is said that each path is meant for a different temperament of personality.\n\nAccording to the Jain texts like Tattvārthsūtra and Sarvārthasiddhi, knowledge is of five kinds:\n\n\"Gyan\" or \"Gian\" refers to spiritual knowledge. It is mentioned throughout the Guru Granth Sahib.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10058679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10058679", "title": "John A. Leslie", "text": "John A. Leslie\n\nJohn Andrew Leslie (born 2 August 1940) is a Canadian philosopher. He was educated at Wadham College, Oxford, earning his B.A. in English Literature in 1962 and his M.Litt. in Classics in 1968. He is currently Professor emeritus at the University of Guelph, in Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn his book \"Universes\", Leslie describes a philosophical parable in which an individual survives a firing squad of fifty expert marksmen unscathed. He offers two explanations for this remarkable event: either it is a fortuitous outcome, to be expected occasionally by pure chance among many thousands of attempted executions by firing squad; or it is intentional. Francis Collins references this parable in his book \"The Language of God: A Scientist Presents Evidence for Belief\" as part of his argument that the Anthropic Principle strongly suggests a Creator with intent.\n\nLeslie has spoken as follows about his life's work: What I have to contribute is some technical defense of the idea that if you had an infinitely rich [universe], it could be explained by reference to its value. Its goodness could be the creative force which had produced it. I think if I would like to be remembered as a philosopher for any one thing, that would be the thing I'd most like to be remembered for.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32895816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32895816", "title": "John of Wales", "text": "John of Wales\n\nJohn of Wales, OFM (Wales, 13th century – Paris 1285), a.k.a. \"John Waleys\" and \"Johannes Guallensis\", was a Franciscan theologian who wrote several well-received Latin works, primarily preaching aids, in Oxford and Paris in the late-thirteenth century.\n\nBorn between 1210–1230, almost certainly in Wales, he joined the Franciscan order, and incepted in theology at Oxford University sometime before 1258. After this, he taught there until 1270 when he moved to Paris, where he remained until his death around 1285. He was a moral theologian and a great admirer of the ancient world, incorporating many classical authors into his works.\n\nHe wrote several works in Latin, with a great success. The most important ones are the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5173010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5173010", "title": "Karl Theodor Bayrhoffer", "text": "Karl Theodor Bayrhoffer\n\nKarl Theodor Bayrhoffer (14 October 1812, in Marburg – 3 February 1888) was a German American philosopher and publicist.\n\nIn 1834 he received his PhD from the University of Marburg, where he later was named an associate professor of philosophy (1838, a full professor in 1845). He became a member of the Diet of Hesse-Kassel (or Hesse-Cassel) in 1848, and in 1850 was President of the Chamber. After the defeat of his party (Democratic) he came to the United States in 1852 and settled in Wisconsin as a farmer, though from 1866 he lived principally by his pen.\n\nIn his early writings, notably in \"Die Idee und Geschichte der Philosophie\" (\"Idea and History of Philosophy\", 1838), he appears as a zealous disciple of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. Afterward he became a champion of German Catholicism and wrote \"Researches into the Essence, History, and Criticism of Religion\" (1849).\n"}
{"id": "37446136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37446136", "title": "L. A. Paul", "text": "L. A. Paul\n\nLaurie Ann (L. A.) Paul is a professor of philosophy and cognitive science at Yale University. She previously taught at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the University of Arizona. She is best known for her research on the counterfactual analysis of causation and the concept of \"transformative experience.\"\n\nPaul graduated from Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio in 1990 with a B.A. in chemistry. Before going to graduate school, Paul corresponded with a number of philosophers about their work, including Nancy Cartwright and Lynne Rudder Baker. In 1999, Paul graduated from Princeton University with a Ph.D in philosophy, where she wrote a dissertation titled \"Essays on Causation\" under the supervision of David Lewis.\n\nPaul taught at Yale University from 1999 to 2001, and at the University of Arizona from 2001 until 2008, before moving to North Carolina. She has also held appointments at the Australian National University and at the University of St. Andrews.\n\nShe is married to sociologist Kieran Healy.\n\nPaul's principal research interests are in metaphysics and the philosophy of mind. Her work focuses on causation, mereology, the philosophy of time, and related topics in phenomenology, the philosophy of science, and philosophy of language. Her work in ontology and mereology develops a distinctive view of objects as fusions of property instances. Her article \"What You Can't Expect When You're Expecting\" develops the notion of transformative experience and explores its consequences for the possibility of rational decision-making.\n\nShe has written more than twenty articles, and is the editor of \"Causation and Counterfactuals\", co-author of \"Causation: A User's Guide\", and author of \"Transformative Experience.\"\n\nPaul has received the following awards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17192492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17192492", "title": "Lars Gule", "text": "Lars Gule\n\nLars Gule (born 24 June 1955) is a Norwegian philosopher, social commentator and associate professor (at Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, HiOA). From 2000 to 2005 he was secretary general of the Norwegian Humanist Association. Gule became known to the general public in 1977 when he after having joined the far-left Palestinian DFLP group was arrested in Beirut, Lebanon with explosives in his luggage, and imprisoned in the country for six months. He remains active as an anti-Israel activist. Gule is often used by Norwegian media as an \"expert authority\" on questions regarding the Middle East, Islam and extremism.\n\nLars Gule studied history, philosophy and social science at the University of Bergen and received his doctoral degree in philosophy (doctor artium) at the same university in 2003 when he defended the dissertation \"Social Development and Political Progress in Two Traditions\" A Conceptual and Comparative Analysis of Western and Arab-Islamic Ideas of Social and Political Change and Improvement.\n\nIn 1987 he administered the Middle Eastern Languages and Culture subject as well as The Centre for the Study of the Sciences and the Humanities, both at the University of Bergen. In 1989, he was associated with the Chr. Michelsen Institute (CMI) human rights programme as a PhD student and administrator. He later returned to the University of Bergen (Centre for Development Studies) as coordinator of the research programme \"Nature, Society and Water\" (1998–2000).\n\nFrom July 2000 to December 2005 he was secretary general of the Norwegian Humanist Association (see below). From February 2006 he was Programme Director at the Center for Multicultural and International Work Sefia (discontinued) at Oslo University College, and in August 2007 he moved to a position as associate professor (following the closure of Sefia) related to the fields of multicultural understanding and development studies at the Department of Education and International Studies, Oslo and Akershus University College. From January 2009, the Gule was also associated with HiO's (from 1 August 2011 HiOA's) Centre for the Study of Professions (SPS) in a 50% position as a post doctor. From January 2010 he became a full-time post doctor research fellow at the SPS and worked, \"inter alia\", with professional practice in multicultural society. The post doctor fellowship ended in August 2013. From November the same year he obtained a full-time position as associate professor at the same university college, continuing to work on multicultural issues. However, Gule's research interests have moved in the direction of extremism after the terrorist attacks in Oslo and at Utøya on 22 July 2011, and from the fall semester of 2015 he is contributing to the teaching of a 15 ECT credit course called \"Knowledge on Extremism and Radicalisation\" (in Norwegian).\n\nIn January 1977 Gule travelled from Norway on a trip that was supposed to take him through much of the Middle East. The first goal was Lebanon, where most people believed the situation was beginning to normalize after one and half years of civil war. Gule sympathized with the Palestinian cause and became involved in the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), a Palestinian political party and guerilla group that has also used terror in its struggle against Israel. Gule has, however, since denied that it was his intention to participate in terrorism and describes his involvement as part of the “anti-imperialist” struggle.\n\nHowever, the DFLP asked Gule to carry out an armed operation in Israel in early June 1977. Gule has explained that the DFLP proposed three targets for him: a bomb could be placed either be in a pedestrian underpass in Tel Aviv, in the President Hotel in Jerusalem or outside an apartment complex with gas containers outside in what was called a “bourgeois neighbourhood”.\" He rejected these targets as he was sceptical of what could be regarded as terrorism. “The suspect had made it known to his employers that he did not want to take human life. The purpose of the explosion was to mark the 10th anniversary of the war in 1967, strengthen the Palestinians' fighting spirit and morale”, he said later during interrogation to the Norwegian police. He did not succeed in engaging the DFLP in a discussion on a more symbolic target.\n\nAs it was not possible to travel directly from Lebanon to Israel, Gule was to travel back to Norway where he was to procure a new passport (without Arab visas) before he went on to Israel after a few weeks, during the time he would consider if he could participate in such an operation. He received a plane ticket to Europe and $1,300 (US) from the DFLP, to cover the other travel expenses.\n\nAt the security check in Beirut International Airport on 6 May when Gule was about to leave Lebanon, a security officers found approximately 750 grams of plastic explosives hidden in the covers of books Gule had in his backpack. He was eventually handed over to the Lebanese intelligence service and after harsh interrogations, Gule confessed to his cooperation with the DFLP. Gule has explained how he was exposed to torture, including being beaten under the soles of the feet and threatened with liquidation.\n\nGule was sentenced to six months prison in Lebanon and a fine for the “illegal possession of weapons” (i.e. explosives). He was acquitted of attempting to carry out terrorist acts using explosives.\n\nThe case attracted great attention in Norwegian media in the summer of 1977, and when Gule was released from prison and returned to Norway in November 1977, he was questioned by the Norwegian police. The attorney general, however, chose to react with a waiver, even though he repeated his statement about having begun what could be construed as planning a bombing in Israel.\n\nBack in Norway Gule began studying history at the University of Bergen in 1978. Then, after completing an MA in philosophy, he administered the programme Middle Eastern Languages and Culture as well as The Centre for the Study of the Sciences and the Humanities, both at the University of Bergen. In 1989, he became associated with the Chr. Michelsen Institute Human Rights Programme as a PhD student. He later returned to the University of Bergen (Centre for Development Studies) as coordinator of the research programme \"Nature, Society and Water\" (1998–2000).\n\nIn 2000 Gule was appointed to secretary general of the Norwegian Humanist Association and started working there on 1 July. He served in this capacity until 9 December 2005. The immediate resignation came as a result of a disagreement with the Executive Board on an organizational questions. But his departure from the position only meant that his resignation from the fixed term of six years was advanced a few months.\n\nGule was till then the secretary general who had been in the position for the second longest time in the history of the Norwegian Humanist Association, years. Gule emphasized the equality of all life stances – religious and secular – and promoted human rights during his period. He contributed frequently to the media and participated in public debate. He was often controversial, not least with his criticism of fundamentalist Islam. Yet he defended the religious freedom of Muslims and the right to be a Muslim in Norway. Controversial was his statements about faith communities' right to discriminate, including women and gays, because those who feel discriminated against have an exit option. This option dissolves the apparent contradiction between fundamental rights – religious freedom and the right not to be discriminated against. This is why the state should not intervene in the internal affairs of religious communities, in Gule's opinion.\n\nIn the work of a professional historian on the history of the Norwegian Humanist Association, Gule is considered a distinctive ideological leader of the organization. He also emphasized Gule's commitment to human rights during his period as secretary general.\n\nAs early as at high school in his home town Larvik in the early 1970s, Gule participated the public debate. For a period he was active in Sosialistisk Valgforbunds Ungdom (which later became the Socialist Youth) and Sosialistisk Valgforbund, later the Socialist Left Party (SV), but he was never a member of the Marxist–Leninist-Maoist SUF (m–l) (later Rød Ungdom) or Workers' Communist Party (Arbeidernes kommunistparti (AKP (m–l)).\n\nBecause of what Gule calls a radical anti-imperialist commitment, he became involved in the Palestinian struggle for liberation in 1977 and agreed to participate in an armed attack against Israel. This choice came after a long process that involved a break with a previous non-violent revolutionary position Gule had advocated, among other things, as a member of Folkereisning mot krig, the Norwegian branch of War Resisters International earlier in the 1970s. This happened because of a growing conviction that the imperialist and reactionary forces in the world could not be overthrown without the use of violence. The US-backed coup against Salvador Allende's government in the Chile in 1973, was highly important in this development.\n\nWhen Gule began at the University of Bergen, he came in contact with a small but radical group that worked on the development of Karl Marx's theory of communism as a mode of production. Through this work Gule came to distance himself from Marxism as ideology and from “the left's romance with violence” (including a writing a self-criticism in Dagbladet in 1979). In the article “Some critical considerations of the Marxist class struggle theory”, he delivered a theoretical critique of the Marxist theory of class struggle as a necessity for the Communist revolution.\n\nHe became a member of the social democratic Workers' Youth League, the Labour Party's student group, and was briefly leader of the organization at the University of Bergen (1984), but has not since been active in the Workers' Youth League (or Labour Party). He is currently a politically independent, though his social views and positions in the public debate places him on the “left”.\n\nThe interest in the Middle East that was ignited during his stay in Lebanon in 1977 has followed Gule through his studies. His Master's degree in philosophy (1986) was entitled “Adlyd Gud og de med autoritet blant dere” (Obey God, and those with authority among you) and was a study of classical Islamic and modern Arab political thought. This led to an interest in Islam and human rights that Gule has pursued since. This is reflected in several articles and is also a central theme in his doctoral dissertation.\n\nGule often participates in the public debate through newspaper articles and online debates, where he is particularly critical of totalitarian ideologies and religions. Therefore, he supported Professor Bernt Hagtvet's criticism of Workers' Communist Party (Arbeidernes kommunistparti (AKP (m–l)) He is also frequently used as a commentator and debater on radio and television on matters related to the Middle East, Islam, religion and cultural conflicts. In the public debate as well as in his academic work, Gule tries to present a consistent defence of human rights.\n\nThroughout his term as secretary general of the NHA, Gule also focused on the critique of religion. Although he also criticized Christianity, he has been a particularly critical of Islam. However, Gule rejects and is sharply criticizes what he perceives as a simplified, erroneous and / or exaggerated representations of a threat from Islam – Islamophobia.\n\nGule is still a strong critic of Israel, which he characterizes as a racist state. He also rejects that strong and fundamental criticism of Israel would be a form of antisemitism. He is currently involved in the Norwegian branch of the international BDS Movement and works for a boycott against Israel.\n\nSince 2007, Gule has studied a legal process in which he argues that there has been a miscarriage of justice. The case is about a Bangladeshi man (and former colleague of Gule), who is alleged to have abused his Bangladeshi wife seriously, including by hanging her up by the feet, four times. In his book \"Den fjerde opphengingen. Beretningen om et varslet justismord og en profesjonsstudie av aktøransvar\" (The fourth suspension. The story of a miscarriage of justice foretold and a study of the actors's professional responsibility) from 2010, the investigation, the experts' statements, the sentences and the role of the press are all reviewed in detail.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks in Norway 22 July 2011, Gule has been interviewed and cited by both Norwegian and international media as a commentator on extremism, terrorism and multicultural issues, especially since he had “discussed” with Anders Behring Breivik on the website Document.no.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "12819686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12819686", "title": "Lindley Darden", "text": "Lindley Darden\n\nLindley Darden (born 1945) is a contemporary philosopher of science, with a research focus on the philosophy of biology. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1974 and B.A. in 1968 from Rhodes College, and is currently Distinguished Scholar Teacher at the University of Maryland.\n\nDarden's research has led to the publication of several books. In her 1991 book, \"Theory Change in Science\", Darden argues, \"contra\" Kuhn, that science is a self-correcting enterprise which progresses through a thoroughly piecemeal process of \"reiterative refinement,\" consisting of three stages: (1) theory construction, (2) theory assessment, and (3) theory modification. Although there are similarities between stages (1) and (2) and the traditionally recognized contexts of scientific discovery and justification, Darden argues that her stages are not easily mapped onto this dichotomy.\n\nFurthermore, Darden attempts to illumine the \"mysterious\" process of constructing scientific theories by positing various \"strategies\" that she claims are sufficient for solving actual historical cases of theory change. For example, Darden examines the Mendelian \"Theory of the Gene,\" which underwent significant theoretical modifications from around 1900 (when Mendel was \"rediscovered\") to 1926 (when Thomas Hunt Morgan published his famous textbook defining Mendelian theory in its roughly modern form). Looking at these cases, Darden describes procedures for devising the hypotheses that early twentieth-century Mendelian theorists actually proposed, although she does not claim that these theorists actually employed such procedures, or \"strategies\". Ultimately, by constructing a list of such strategies for discovery, Darden hopes that scientists can use them to solve present theoretical problems that contemporary science encounters. As such, she \"advises\" scientists to use them, calling her model \"advisory\" (rather than \"descriptive\" or \"normative\").\n\nDarden has also worked on mechanisms, notably in her collaborative paper entitled \"Thinking about Mechanisms\" (2000), co-authored with Peter Machamer and Carl Craver. In 2006, Darden completed her second book, entitled \"Reasoning in Biological Discoveries: Essays on Mechanisms, Interfield Relations, and Anomaly Resolution\". In it, Darden propounds a number of strategies for discovering mechanisms in biology, including \"Schema Instantiation,\" \"Modular Subassembly,\" and \"Forward/Backward Chaining.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14424052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14424052", "title": "Luc Bovens", "text": "Luc Bovens\n\nLuc Bovens is a Belgian professor of philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Bovens is a former editor of \"Economics and Philosophy\". His main areas of research are moral and political philosophy, philosophy of economics, philosophy of public policy, Bayesian epistemology, rational choice theory, and voting theory. He has also published work, of some controversy to the anti-abortion movement, on issues regarding abortion and natural family planning methods of contraception.\n\nBovens attended the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium, studying Social Sciences, before moving to the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis. Here he completed an MA in Sociology, an MA in philosophy and a PhD in philosophy in 1990.\n\nHe was a research assistant in the National Fund for Scientific Research in Belgium, before gaining a professorship in the department of philosophy at the University of Colorado at Boulder in 1990.\n\nBovens was Director of the Philosophy, Probability and Modeling (PPM) research group with Stephan Hartmann at the University of Konstanz, Germany from 2002 to 2005, and an editor of \"Economics and Philosophy\" from 2002 to 2007.\n\nHe was a professor in and the head of the department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific Method at the London School of Economics 2004 through 2017. In 2018 Bovens joined the Philosophy Department at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill as a professor, and core member of the Philosophy, Politics & Economics (PPE) Program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21980654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21980654", "title": "Marian Hillar", "text": "Marian Hillar\n\nMarian Hillar is an American philosopher, theologian, linguist, and scientist. He is a recognized authority on Michael Servetus and together with classicist and political theorist, C. A. Hoffman, translated the major works of Michael Servetus from Latin into English for the first time. He identified the radical search for truth and the right for freedom of conscience as Servetus' main legacies, rather than his theology and scientific discovery. He studied the influence of Servetus in the world and the development and ideas of the Socinian movement in the 16th and 17th centuries, precursors of the Enlightenment and modern era. He does research in the history of ideas and is author of numerous studies in the history of philosophy, ethics, theological doctrines, and Radical Reformation.\n\nMarian Hillar was born in 1938 in Bydgoszcz (present-day Poland) in an old family claiming its roots in 14th-century Holland. He received classical education in highly selective elementary and secondary schools with emphasis on science and languages. He earned his degrees at the Medical University of Gdansk and studied at the Jagiellonian University and at Sorbonne. He was invited in 1969 to do research at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. He became a US citizen in 1977. He did research and taught in Europe at the Medical University of Gdansk and the Università degli studi di Camerino, and in the USA at the Baylor College of Medicine and the Ponce School of Medicine. He is currently professor of philosophy and religious studies, and he is director of the Center for Philosophy and Socinian Studies which he founded in 1986.\n\nMarian Hillar has published studies on the philosophy of Hippocratic medicine; Greek philosophy of science and the origin of science; ancient Greek philosophy; liberation theology; the New Testament, Dead Sea Scrolls, early Christian writers, and the origin of Christianity; Philo of Alexandria, Numenius, early church fathers and development of the theory of logos and of the Trinity; studies in ethics- Stoics, Thomas Aquinas, Kant; Radical Reformation and development of antitrinitrian doctrines, Socinians; development of modern ideas on freedom of conscience and church-state separation.\n\nHillar's major theological work is demonstrating how the doctrine of the Trinity was developed from various sources through the evolution of the Jewish messianic expectations which underwent changes during centuries. He identified as its sources the Greek philosophical concept of the Logos, Middle Platonic philosophical ideas, especially of Numenius and Philo of Alexandria, and the Egyptian religious ideas about the trinity of divinity.\n\nHillar is founder and was editor-in-chief (1992-2012) of the \"Essays in the Philosophy of Humanism\", a scholarly journal published yearly since 1992 by the Humanists of Houston. In 2005, the American Humanist Association, Washington, D.C., agreed to assume the duties of publishing the journal under its aegis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53769422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53769422", "title": "Michael Peter Davis", "text": "Michael Peter Davis\n\nMichael Peter Davis (born December 19, 1947) is an American philosopher who teaches at Sarah Lawrence College.\n\nDavis earned his A.B. in Philosophy and Government at Cornell University, where he studied with Allan Bloom, and his Ph.D. in philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, where he wrote a dissertation, \"The Duality of Soul in Plato’s\" Philebus, under the direction of Richard Kennington. He taught briefly at Dickinson College, Wesleyan University, and Alfred University, before moving to Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, NY, where he has taught since 1977 and held the Sara Yates Exley Chair in Teaching Excellence. From 1981-89 Davis taught philosophy in the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research and from 1995-2002 in the Graduate Program in Political Theory at Fordham University. In the late 1970’s Davis began a long association and friendship with Seth Benardete, of whose thought he is one of the principal interpreters. Davis currently resides in White Plains, NY, with his wife, Susan, to whom he has been married since 1969.\n\nMichael Davis works primarily in Greek philosophy, in moral and political philosophy, and in what might be called the “poetics” of philosophy. He is the translator, with Seth Benardete, of Aristotle’s On Poetics and has written on variety of philosophers from Plato to Heidegger and of literary figures ranging from Homer and the Greek tragedians to Saul Bellow and Tom Stoppard. Davis is probably best known for his interpretations of Aristotle, where he articulates the metaphysical implications of practical life (The Poetry of Philosophy, The Politics of Philosophy, and The Soul of the Greeks) as well as the practical implications of metaphysics (The Autobiography of Philosophy). The other primary influence on Davis’s thought is Plato, for whom the necessary connection between the practical and the theoretical shows up in the dialogic form of philosophy. For Davis, Plato reveals both the necessarily poetic character of philosophy and the necessarily philosophic character of the literature. From Plato Davis learns that and how philosophy must be esoteric, not primarily in a political but in a metaphysical sense, a view he developed in conversation and collaboration with Seth Benardete.\n\n\"Ancient Tragedy and the Origins of Modern Science\" (Southern Illinois University Press, 1988). Chinese translation, Hermes, 2008.\n\n\"Aristotle's\" Poetics: \"The Poetry of Philosophy\" (Rowman and Littlefield, 1992); reprinted as \"The Poetry of Philosophy: On Aristotle's\" Poetics (St. Augustine's Press, 1999). Chinese translation, Hermes, 2009.\n\n\"The Politics of Philosophy: A Commentary on Aristotle's\" Politics (Rowman and Littlefield, 1996)—\"Choice\" 1996 Outstanding Academic Book Award. Chinese translation, Hermes, 2009.\n\n\"The Autobiography of Philosophy: Rousseau's\" The Reveries of the Solitary Walker (Rowman and Littlefield, 1999). Chinese translation, Hermes, 2010.\n\n\"Aristotle – On Poetics\", co-translator and co-editor (with Seth Benardete) and author of the Introduction (St. Augustine's Press, 2002).\n\n\"Encounters and Reflections: Conversations with Seth Benardete\", participant with Robert Berman and Ronna Burger (University of Chicago Press, 2003). Chinese translation, Hermes, 2007.\n\n\"Wonderlust: Ruminations on Liberal Education\" (St. Augustine's Press, 2006).\n\n\"The Soul of the Greeks: An Inquiry\" (University of Chicago Press, 2011).\n\n\"Essays in Honor of Richard Kennington\", a special Festschrift issue of the \"Graduate Faculty Philosophy Journal\", Vol. 11, No. 2 (Fall 1986).\n\nWith Ronna Burger, introduction to and editor of \"The Argument of the Action: Essays on Greek Poetry and Philosophy\" by Seth Benardete (University of Chicago Press, 2000).\n\nWith Ronna Burger, introduction to and editor of \"The Archaeology of the Soul: Essays in Greek and Roman Philosophy and Poetry\" by Seth Benardete (St. Augustine’s Press, 2012).\n\nMimesis\n\nNicomachean Ethics\n\nPoetics (Aristotle)\n\nPolitics (Aristotle)\n\nSeth Benardete\n\n"}
{"id": "57703178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57703178", "title": "Mosikeeranar", "text": "Mosikeeranar\n\nMōsi Keeranār (Tamil: மோசி கீரனார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom 10 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed, including verse 27 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nMosikeeranar hailed from Mosur in Thondainadu. Keeran is his familial name. Mosikeeranar was said to be the contemporary of the Chera ruler Thagadoor Erindha Peruncheral Irumporai. He was known as the poet who mistakenly slept on the murasukattil (giant drum cot) of the ruler.\n\nMosikeeranar has written 9 verses, including 1 in Agananuru (verse 392), 2 in Kurunthogai (verses 59 and 84), 1 in Natrinai, and 5 in Purananuru, besides the one in Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "4856284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4856284", "title": "Nikolai Stankevich", "text": "Nikolai Stankevich\n\nNikolai Vladimirovich Stankevich () ( – ) was a Russian public figure, philosopher, and poet.\n\nNikolay Stankevich was born in Uderevka, Voronezh Governorate, and in 1834 graduated from the Moscow State University, where he was influenced by Professor Mikhail Kachenovsky and followers of the so-called \"skeptical school\" in historiography. By late 1831, Stankevich had organized a literary and philosophical society called the \"Circle of Stankevich\". He had been under police surveillance since 1833 due to his connections with a group of oppositionary university students led by Ya.I. Kostenetsky. In 1837, Nikolay Stankevich had to travel abroad due to his tuberculosis.\n\nStankevich's literary and esthetical views, most of which mirrored the ideas of a Russian historian Nikolai Nadezhdin, presupposed the humanistic enlightenment as the main task of the Russian intelligentsia. Stankevich is known to have considerably influenced some of the Russian and Muscovite intelligentsia in particular, including Vissarion Belinsky, Timofey Granovsky, Mikhail Bakunin, and Alexander Herzen. Among Stankevich's literary works (mostly poetic and not numerous), there are a few verses dedicated to Moscow and a historical tragedy called \"Vasili Shuisky\".\n\nHe died, aged 26, in Novi Ligure, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8296500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8296500", "title": "Nikolay Yazykov", "text": "Nikolay Yazykov\n\nNikolay Mikhailovich Yazykov (, March 4, 1803, Simbirsk, Russian Empire – December 26, 1846, Moscow, Russian Empire) was a Russian poet and Slavophile who in the 1820s rivalled Alexander Pushkin and Yevgeny Baratynsky as the most popular poet of his generation.\n\nYazykov was born in Simbirsk to an old family of Russian landlords. His first verses appeared in print in 1819. For seven years (1822-1829) Yazykov studied at the philosophy department of Dorpat University, where he made himself famous with his riotously Anacreontic verse in praise of the students' merry life. For his summer vacations he went to Trigorskoye, where he met Pushkin.\n\nAfter leaving Dorpat, without a degree, Yazykov lived between Moscow and his Simbirsk estate. Later in life, he became intimate with the nationalist and Slavophile circles of Moscow, which held his poetry in high esteem. Nikolay Gogol, in particular, favoured Yazykov over all other living poets. The young idealists grouping around Nikolai Stankevich, however, dismissed his work as contemptibly lacking in ideas.\n\nYazykov's health, undermined by the excesses of his student life, began to fail very early, and from about 1835 he was a restless wanderer from one health resort to another. The Genoese Riviera, Nice, Gastein, and other German spas are the frequent background of his later verse. His spare time was devoted to collecting Russian folk poetry, in which task he was assisted by Pyotr Kireyevsky.\n\nApart from Pushkin, Yazykov was also close to Nikolay Gogol and was Khomyakov's brother-in-law. It was the death of his sister that triggered Gogol's fatal depression. According to his wishes, the great novelist was buried next to the Yazykovs in the Danilov Monastery. In 1931 the remains of Yazykov, Gogol and Khomyakov were reburied at the Novodevichy Cemetery.\n\nD.S. Mirsky compared Yazykov to Gavrila Derzhavin for \"his power of seeing nature as an orgy of light and color\". Pushkin once joked that the Castalian fount of which Yazykov drank ran not with water, but with champagne. Indeed, his early (and best known) poetry is devoted to the praise of wine and merrymaking, producing an effect of the almost physical intoxication and verbal rush.\n\n"}
{"id": "5300079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5300079", "title": "Paul Weiss (philosopher)", "text": "Paul Weiss (philosopher)\n\nPaul Weiss (; May 19, 1901 – July 5, 2002) was an American philosopher. He was the founder of \"The Review of Metaphysics\" and the Metaphysical Society of America.\n\nPaul Weiss grew up on the Lower East Side of New York City. His father, Samuel Weiss (d. 1917), was a Hungarian emigrant who moved from Europe in the 1890s. He worked as a tinsmith, a coppersmith, and a boilermaker. Paul Weiss's mother, Emma Rothschild (Weiss) (d. 1915), was a German emigrant who worked as a servant until she married Samuel. Born into a Jewish family, Paul lived among other Jewish families in a working-class neighborhood in the Yorkville section of Manhattan. Originally given the Hebrew name \"Peretz,\" Weiss says in his autobiography that the name \"Paul\" was his \"registered name\" and \"part of his mother's attempt to move upward in the American world.\" He had three brothers, two older and one younger.\n\nWeiss graduated from Public School #77. He later enrolled at the High School of Commerce where he learned shorthand and how to type; however, he felt that he did not benefit much from the available courses. His grades began to fall, and with a little encouragement from his mother, he eventually dropped out of high school. After working many odd jobs, Weiss enrolled at the College of the City of New York in 1924. He took free night classes in philosophy, graduating cum laude in 1927. At the College of the City of New York, he studied with Morris R. Cohen, who awakened in him an interest in the American pragmatist and logician Charles Sanders Peirce. During this period he also met Victoria Brodkin (d. 1953), whom he later married on October 27, 1928. They had two children: Judith, who was born in 1935, and Jonathan, who was born in 1939.\n\nUpon receiving his B.A. from the City College of New York, Weiss immediately enrolled at Harvard where he studied philosophy under Étienne Gilson, William Ernest Hocking, C. I. Lewis, Ralph Barton Perry, and Alfred North Whitehead. Under the direction of Whitehead, Weiss received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1929. Weiss's first semester at Harvard proved to be a busy one. He volunteered to help Charles Hartshorne in the monumental task of editing the thousands of scattered pages Charles S. Peirce had left behind for publication by Harvard University Press. C. I. Lewis, who was at the time the department chair of philosophy at Harvard, eventually approved Weiss to work alongside Hartshorne for the remainder of the project. The first six volumes of Peirce's work were published between 1931 and 1935. Weiss was mainly responsible for the second, third, and fourth volumes. Two more volumes edited by Arthur Burks appeared in the 1950s. Weiss later founded the scholarly journal \"The Review of Metaphysics\" in 1947 and the Metaphysical Society of America in 1950.\n\nIn 1931 Paul Weiss left Harvard and began teaching philosophy at Bryn Mawr. As Weiss explains, Bryn Mawr was at the time \"the self-chosen destination of the most intellectual, intelligent, determined, and well-prepared young women in America.\" Some fifteen years later in 1946, Weiss was invited to teach at Yale for a term as a substitute for Brand Blanshard. He accepted and what began as a temporary job turned into a permanent position that lasted for twenty four years. Weiss was the first Jewish full professor at Yale. He comments that his experience at Yale was quite different from Bryn Mawr. \"I was there faced with men—no women were enrolled in the undergraduate school until more than two decades later—many of whom had just returned from military service. They were older, some having gone through searing experiences, no longer enjoying the cozy atmosphere of their preparatory schools. I seemed to be just the teacher they needed and wanted.\" Weiss remained at Yale until 1969 when he reached Yale's mandatory retirement age. Shortly after, he was offered the Schweitzer Chair of philosophy at Fordham University, but the offer was quickly retracted, allegedly due to Weiss's age. Weiss challenged Fordham's decision in an age discrimination lawsuit, but in the end he lost. In the early 1970s, Weiss began teaching at the Catholic University of America. In 1992 Weiss's contract with the university was not renewed. Again he felt that age discrimination played a role in the university's decision. Weiss and his son Jonathan, a lawyer and director of Legal Services for the Elderly in New York, challenged the Catholic University of America's decision. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission investigated the case and eventually ruled in Weiss's favor. His contract with the Catholic University of America was renewed until 1994 when Weiss voluntarily retired.\n\nAs a philosopher, Weiss is mainly known for his metaphysical writings such as \"Being and Other Realities\". His other philosophical works include books and articles on epistemology and cosmology. He even published eleven volumes under the title \"Philosophy in Process,\" detailing his continuing and sometimes daily reflections over the years 1955–1987. A seminal point of Weiss's philosophy is that Being consists of a plurality of individuals that are unified by universality, which gives a structure to all there is, but that is also irreducible in four distinct ways. During his prime, Weiss maintained a style of philosophy that was considered by many to be out-of-date. In fact, Weiss opposed the philosophies of the analytics, the logical positivists and the Marxists. His was a philosophy on the grand scale-philosophical system-building in the style of Kant, Hegel, or Peirce.\n\nAs a man, Weiss could be \"fierce in argument\" while maintaining \"gentleness\" and \"personal regard for his students.\" John Silber, one of Weiss's former students says, \"In order to study philosophy with Paul, one had to philosophize. And Paul's dialectical powers gave credence to Plato's account of those powers exercised by Socrates himself.\"\n\nPaul Weiss died in 2002 at age 101. His final book, \"Surrogates\", was published shortly after his death. Most of Weiss's papers were donated to the Morris Library at Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. After his death, his remaining papers and his extensive library (and also the legal papers, French and Russian translations, novels, and other non fiction books of his son) were bequeathed to the Institute for American Thought housed at Indiana University Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI) and the IUPUI university library.\n\nIn a June 13, 1968 guest appearance on the nationally televised \"The Dick Cavett Show\", Weiss argued that fellow guest James Baldwin was excessively focused on the Black experience. The exchange was featured in Raoul Peck's documentary \"I Am Not Your Negro\", and described by A. O. Scott as the \"initial spectacle of mediocrity condescending to genius is painful, but the subsequent triumph of [Baldwin's] self-taught brilliance over credentialed ignorance is thrilling to witness\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23572344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23572344", "title": "Per Aage Brandt", "text": "Per Aage Brandt\n\nPer Aage Brandt (born 26 April 1944 in Buenos Aires) is a Danish writer, poet, linguist and musician. He is Master of Arts in Romance Philology from the University of Copenhagen (1971) & holds a Doctorate of Semiotics from the Sorbonne University (1987).\n\nPer Aage Brandt has published a large number of books on the subjects of semiotics, linguistics, culture, and music as well as poetry.\n\nHe had his debut as a poet in 1969 with the poetry collection \"Poesi\" and has since then written several poetry collections and essays. He has translated Molière and Marquis de Sade, amongst others, and in 2000 he translated (or \"re-wrote\" in Danish) the poetry collection \"Cantabile\" by Henrik, the prince consort of Denmark. Some of his translations were subsequently set to music in Frederik Magle's symphonic suite \"Cantabile\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19833886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19833886", "title": "Peter Godfrey-Smith", "text": "Peter Godfrey-Smith\n\nPeter Godfrey-Smith (born 1965) is an Australian philosopher of science and writer.\n\nGodfrey-Smith is Professor of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Sydney and an Adjunct Professor of Philosophy at CUNY Graduate Center. He works primarily in the Philosophy of Science and Philosophy of Biology. Born in Australia in 1965, he received a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of California, San Diego in 1991 under the supervision of Philip Kitcher, and taught previously at Harvard University, Stanford University and Australian National University. Godfrey-Smith was the recipient of the Lakatos Award for his 2009 book, \"Darwinian Populations and Natural Selection\" which discusses the philosophical foundations of the theory of evolution.\n\nHis main research interests are in the philosophy of biology and the philosophy of mind. He also works on pragmatism (especially John Dewey), general philosophy of science, and some parts of metaphysics and epistemology. \n\nHe has criticized the arguments of intelligent design proponents.\n\nIn February 2011, Godfrey-Smith interrupted a talk given by Professor of Philosophy, Emeritus, Jerry Fodor at the \"Debating Darwin\" philosophy conference held at University of California, Santa Barbara. In the heated exchange that followed, parts of which were captured on video, Godfrey-Smith attempted to challenge Fodor on his views on the theoretical veracity of evolution by natural selection. Godfrey-Smith had already been critical of Fodor's views prior to the conference. \n\nIn 2016, Godfrey-Smith published the book \"Other Minds: The Octopus, The Sea, and the Deep Origins of Consciousness\". It explores the origin of sentience, consciousness and intelligence in the animal kingdom, specifically how it evolved in cephalopods compared to mammals and birds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33798857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33798857", "title": "Rafael Gambra Ciudad", "text": "Rafael Gambra Ciudad\n\nRafael Gambra Ciudad (1920-2004) was a Spanish philosopher, a secondary education official, a Carlist politician and a soldier. In philosophy he is considered key representative of late Traditionalism; his works fall also into theory of state and politics. He is best known as author of books focusing on secularisation of Western European culture in the consumer society era. As a politician he is acknowledged as a theorist rather than as an active protagonist, though after 2001 he briefly headed one of the Carlist branches.\n\nRafael's paternal ancestors for generations have been related to ; until today Casa Gambra and Casa Sanz are iconic mansions of the area. The Gambras made their name fighting the French in 1809. Rafael's grandfather, Pedro Francisco Gambra Barrena (died 1930), married descendant to a distinguished Carlist military Sanz family; himself he rose to high positions in Ministry of Economy. His son and Rafael's father, Eduardo Gambra Sanz (1878-1964), became an architect. Key Gambra's works are along the Gran Via and refurbishment of Palacio del Marqués de Miraflores, marked by attempt to re-capture the splendor of historical Spanish architecture. In 1915 he married Rafaela Ciudad Villalón (died 1947), born in Seville though raised in Madrid. She came from a distinguished family of civil servants; her father in the early 20th century was a Cortes deputy, until the early 1920s a longtime senator, and in 1917-1923 served as President of Tribunal Supremo. The couple had only one child.\n\nBorn and raised in Madrid, Rafael spent much of his childhood in Valle de Roncal and later cherished his Navarrese heritage; in historiography he is referred to as a navarro rather than as a madrileño, sometimes dubbed \"maestro navarro\", \"arquetipo navarro\", \"buen navarro\" or \"vasco-navarro roncalés\". He was brought up in profoundly Catholic ambience; politically his father sympathized with Carlism and his mother, though coming from a Liberal family, also displayed a conservative penchant. He was first educated at the ; already during his schoolboy years he was attracted to letters and read books while his colleagues played football; during his early adolescent years he was engaged in .\n\nIn July 1936 the Gambras were spending their summer holidays in Roncal, where they were caught by the military coup. As a 16-year-old Rafael volunteered to the Requeté unit of Tercio de Abárzurza, in few days time taking positions at and attempting to break through Sierra de Guadarrama. José Ulíbarri, the Catholic parish priest from Úgar and temporary commander of the unit, remained Gambra's friend and sort of mentor for life. He spent the next 2 years at the stationary frontline in the Sierra, until in July 1938 he left to attend alférez provisional training. In February 1939 he was seconded to Tercio del Alcázar, commanding a platoon in the 4. Infantry Company. Having reached Lliria at the moment of Nationalist victory, he was decorated with many military awards.\n\nRafael Gambra was married to (1921-1984), translator, scholar and as Miguel Arazuri author of fairly popular novels. She was also the founder and manager of Fundación Stella, an independent radio venture. The couple had three children. Of their two sons, Andrés Gambra Gutierrez is professor of medieval history and the university official, while José Miguel Gambra Gutierrez is scholar in philosophy, both in Madrid. The two are active Traditionalists, the latter leading the sixtinos Carlists since 2010.\n\nIn 1939 Gambra enrolled at the faculty of letters and philosophy at . Influenced by and Salvador Minguijón Adrián, he graduated in 1942. One year later he entered Cuerpo de Catedráticos Numerarios de Institutos Nacionales de Enseñanza Media. Promoted to Inspector Nacional de Enseñanzas Medias, in 1945 Gambra obtained his PhD laurels as Doctor en Filosofía, his thesis dedicated to post-Hegelian approach to historiographic methodology. The work, promoted by , boiled down to highly critical review centred on Marx and Feuerbach and was published in 1946.\n\nAlready in the early 1940s Gambra assumed teaching at the Madrid Academia Vazquez de Mella, a semi-official Carlist educational and cultural enterprise; he was giving lectures on Traditionalist theory of philosophy, state and politics. In 1943 he moved to Pamplona, where he was employed by Instituto Príncipe de Viana, a cultural outpost of Carlism managed by the provincial authorities. During the next 12 years Gambra served in the Institute as professor of philosophy, in the early 1950s apparently hoping to join a would-be Universidad del País Vasco-Navarro, a high-education establishment advocated at the time. However, when Universidad de Navarra materialized as a private Opus Dei enterprise in 1952, Gambra did not enlist; he rejected also an opportunity to pursue research and possibly scholarship in England. In the mid-1950s he returned to the capital, engaged in governmental attempt to re-shape the secondary education structures. He assumed teaching in newly created \"centros modelos de segunda ensañanza\", first in Instituto Miguel de Cervantes and in the mid-1960s moving to Instituto Nacional de Enseñanza Media Lope de Vega, becoming its vicedirector later on. As education official he was anxious to prevent \"erosión de la espiritualidad\", and in the early 1960s he opposed technocratic changes, proposed and eventually introduced in education. He co-operated also with Universidad Complutense, particularly with the associated San Pablo CEU college, run by ACdP. Gambra continued collaborating with CEU from the mid-1960s to 1994, also after San Pablo had formally separated from Complutense and became an independent university. \n\nApart from professional engagements, Gambra continued his teaching career also with a number of semi-scholarly institutions. Until the early 1960s Gambra was giving lectures at Ateneo de Madrid, at that time led by , and , an establishment created by Francoist authorities to cultivate the Latin American link. In the press referred to as \"catedrático\", he was active in once-off conferences, also beyond Madrid, and in periodical Catholic cultural-scientific initiatives, like Conversaciones Intelectuales de El Paular or sessions organized by Hermandad Sacerdotal. In the mid-1960s he commenced engagement in Madrid-based Centro de Estudios Históricos y Políticos General Zumalacárregui, a think-tank set up to disseminate Traditionalist thought and counter progressist designs on Carlism. In the late 1960s he stood as a recognized authority, at least within the Traditionalist realm. He continued giving lectures in the 1980s, as late as 1989 and 1992. In 1998 he celebrated 50 years of teaching.\n\nIn terms of general inspiration Gambra is broadly defined as fitting within the Platonic tradition but indebted mostly to St. Thomas Aquinas and occasionally referred to as member of the neo-scholastic school. His views on Christianity were influenced by Gustave Thibon, Etienne Gilson, Romano Guardini and partially Max Scheler. He is also often referred to as embracing philosophic threads of Albert Camus and other French existentialists, while in theory of politics and state following Alexis de Tocqueville, Karl von Vogelsang and especially Juan Vázquez de Mella.\n\nThe principal thread of Gambra's thought is repudiation of rationalism-based civilization and promotion of a Traditionalist outlook. Human life is understood as commitment to divine order and human identity as spanned between own self and community belonging. A man is perceived primarily as a social – not autonomous – being, expressed mostly by his role in society; similarly, life is about contributing to common good, incompatible with individualism or liberalism. The society itself is governed by nature, animality and rationality, though religion as a transcendent factor is indispensable element of social equation. Such a polity is best expressed as a \"society of duties\", united by common purpose and religious inspiration. As he believed a public organization not based on accepted orthodoxy can never be stable, leading to mere co-existence rather than community, Gambra advocated public embracement of the doctrine with respect for privately held heterodoxy. \n\nAccording to Gambra social self of a human is best expressed by tradition, viewed as accumulated and irreversible evolution that provides a principle governing historical societies and incompatible with revolutionary patterns of change. In case of Spain the tradition is embodied in hereditary monarchy as opposed to elective heads of state, federative structure as opposed to unitary nation states, organic representation as opposed to corruption-prone and individual-centred parliamentarian democracy, Catholic orthodoxy as opposed to secular or neutral regime and generally withdrawn admin structures as opposed to modern, omnipotent state. Politically the guardian of such a tradition was Carlism, not merely political grouping or romantic sentiment but rather the very essence of Spanish self.\n\nRecurring thread of Gambra's thought, by some considered its key component, was confronting modern format of religiosity. He held Maritain and Teilhard de Chardin responsible for undermining Christianity and turning it into a \"new humanist religion\", admitting defeat in 150-year-old struggle against secular Revolution. Fiercely critical of Vaticanum II he considered \"Dignitatis humanae\" incompatible with tradition, the innovative effort of Vatican producing demolition of Christianity and reduction of Catholic integrity to mere \"Christian inspiration\". Indeed, he is often referred to as an Integrist. Faced with progressist stance of the Church, Gambra started assuming anti-clerical positions from the far-right perspective. He often combined his critique with onslaught on European idea, considered a euphemism denoting a militant, anti-Christian ideology, and opposed its implementation in Spain. He was not that much anti-democratic as rather opposing deification of democracy, and especially the central if not exclusive position it claimed within public space.\n\nMost popular Gambra's works were textbooks in history of philosophy: \"Historia sencilla de la filosofía\" (1961) and \"Curso elemental de filosofía\" (1962); tailored for the beginners, they were reprinted in countless editions and served as immensely popular introductions to philosophy for generations of Spanish students until the early 21st century. The first edition of \"Curso\" was nominally co-authored by Gustavo Bueno; in the subsequent re-runs the publisher dropped Bueno, who after the fall of Francoism claimed that the result of his own labor had been merely re-edited by Gambra. In 1970 these works were supplemented by \"La filosofía católica en el siglo XX\".\n\nGambra's view on theory of society and state was laid out in three works: his PhD dissertation \"La interpretación materialista de la historia\" (1946), \"La monarquía social y representativa en el pensamiento tradicional\" (1954) and \"Eso que llaman estado\" (1958). \"La monarquía\", together with almost simultaneously published similar work of Elías de Tejada, became a cornerstone of Traditionalist theoretical vision, while \"Eso que llaman\" was widely discussed in the press of the era; both earned Gambra prestigious standing in scholarly discourse.\n\nThe works which made most impact among the wide public were 4 books focusing on contemporary culture: \"La unidad religiosa y el derrotismo católico\" (1965), \"El silencio de dios\" (1967), \"Tradición o mimetismo\" (1976) and \"El lenguaje y los mitos\" (1983). The first two centred on secularization of Western polities; they confronted Christian-Democratic vision and Vatican II alike, explored roots of perceived cultural decline, tried to re-define tradition versus progress and strove to demonstrate how multifold advances of the last centuries have given man a false sense of mastery. \"Tradición\" turned dramatically out of tune with the transición spirit, withdrawn by the editor and distributed by the author himself. Finally, \"El lenguaje\" deconstructed modern communication; its objective was to prove that the progressist tide manipulated the language and turned it from means of communication into means of promoting cultural revolution.\n\nApart from translations, booklets, compilations and single though some of them original historical attempts, most of 775 titles in digitalized version of Gambra's writings, released in 2002, are contributions to reviews and daily press. Since the 1940s Gambra was moderately engaged in Calvo Serrer directed \"\". Later he switched to \"La Ciudad Católica\", turned into \"Verbo\", unofficial review of the Spanish Integrists, contributing also to other Catholic titles like \"Tradición Católica\" or conservative ones like \"Ateneo\". He supplied a number of Carlist reviews and bulletins: \"Siempre p'alante\", \"La Santa Causa\", \"Montejurra\" and \"Azada y Asta\", gradually eradicated from the last two by their progressist management. Through many decades he was key author of \"\". During late Francoism and afterwards he collaborated with \"El Alcázar\" and \"Fuerza Nueva\". In the 1990s and later he appeared in nationwide press mostly as author of letters to the editor; his last item identified is from 2003. In the 1950s he engaged in private Carlist ventures Editorial Cálamo and Ediciones Montejurra.\n\nReleased from the Carlist Requeté unit, during academic years in Madrid Gambra engaged in the Traditionalist Academia Vázquez de Mella. In the increasingly fragmented realm of post-war Carlism, headed by vacillating and hardly contactable regent Don Javier, he seemed leaning towards a candidature of Dom Duarte Nuño; the two had an amicable interview in 1941, but the young Gambra stayed within the limits of loyalty to the regent and eventually abandoned his pro-Braganza penchant, converted to supporter of the Borbón-Parmas. Having moved to Navarre in 1943 he assisted the French monarchists from fleeing the Nazi terror across the Pyrenees into Spain. In the late 1940s he gained weight within Navarrese Carlism; in the early 1950s he was already listed among \"dirigentes locales\" who \"tenían en el país vasconavarro una indudable influencia\"; in 1953 he formally entered Junta Provincial.\n\nSince emergence of pro-Francoist Carloctavista branch in the mid-1940s Gambra was increasingly anxious about protracted regency of Don Javier. Uncompromising towards another collaborative branch, the Rodeznistas, in the early 1950s he concluded that Don Javier should reinvigorate the movement by terminating the regency and declaring his own claim to the throne. When this eventually happened in 1952, Gambra was co-author of \"Acto de Barcelona\", a proclamation issued by the pretender and viewed also as major re-definition of the Carlist dynastical reading. Books on Traditionalist monarchy established his firm position as a recognized party theorist. In 1954 he entered sub-commission of culture within Comisión de Cultura y Propaganda of the Carlist executive, Junta Nacional.\n\nWhen discussing the mid-1950s some authors count him among the immovilistas, non-collaborative followers of Manuel Fal, while others scholars suggest he charged Fal with lack of intransigence and together with other Navarros like the Baleztena brothers he opposed him from even more anti-Francoist positions. Once Carlism changed its strategy towards cautious rapprochement, Gambra stuck to his guns and lambasted the official collaborationist path of the new leader, José María Valiente.\n\nUneasy about continuous vacillation of Don Javier, Gambra was cautiously supportive of inviting his son Don Carlos Hugo into the Spanish politics; he first met him in 1955 and though perplexed by unfamiliarity of the francophone prince with the Spanish affairs, it was Gambra who introduced him at the 1957 Carlist gathering at Montejurra. In the late 1950s Gambra appreciated his energetic style and focus on dynastic loyalty; he also liked young personalities from Don Carlos Hugo's entourage, especially Ramón Massó, a former Gambra's disciple from Academia Vázquez de Mella. Appreciating him as a young Catalan easily communicating with the crowd, at the turn of the decades Gambra collaborated with Massó and others; he did not realize that they exploited Mellist and federalist threads but considered him a rotten reactionary and approached his teaching highly selectively. It was only in the early 1960s that Gambra realized that Hugocarlistas tried to outsmart the Traditionalists; having failed to prevent their increased presence in the party structures, around 1963 Gambra dissociated himself from Carlohuguismo to launch an openly confrontational bid.\n\nIn 1963 Gambra co-founded Centro de Estudios Históricos y Políticos General Zumalacárregui; though affiliated with Movimiento Nacional, it was intended as a think-tank disseminating Traditionalism and countering progressist vision of the Hugocarlistas. Apart from publications and minor events, its activity climaxed in two Congresos de Estudios Tradicionalistas, staged in 1964 and 1968. As supporters of Don Carlos Hugo were gaining momentum, Gambra was leaning towards rapprochement among all Carlist branches separated from the party during the last 20 years: Rodeznistas, Carloctavistas, Sivattistas and the recently expulsed politicians like José Luis Zamanillo or Francisco Elías de Tejada. Parking dynastical issues, they were supposed to be united by loyalty to Traditionalist principles and opposition to socialist penchant. The plan did not work out until the early 1970s, it is until emergence of ephemeral structure styled as ex-Requeté organization.\n\nGambra's efforts of the time were mostly about further refinement of Traditionalist thought in specialized reviews and conferences; they climaxed in \"¿Qué es el carlismo?\" (1971), concise lecture of the doctrine co-authored with de Tejada and . Also in the mid-1970s he was very engaged in propaganda war with the Hugocarlistas. The latter lambasted his accord with \"ultra-fascist line\" of \"El Pensamiento Navarro\" and his \"posición ultramontana\"; Gambra mobilized Traditionalists to challenge progressist grip on Carlism and prior to the 1976 Montejurra gathering, which effectively produced fatal casualties, called for \"asistencia masiva de los verdaderos tradicionalistas, que alcallará gestos y voces, 'declaraciones' y 'manifiestos', sencillamente inadmisibles, intolerables\".\n\nDuring final years of Francoism and during transición Gambra, always opposed to Falangism and Francoism, neared the post-Francoist búnker when confronting the change; voicing against the 1978 constitution, he sided with Blas Piñar's Fuerza Nueva until the party was dissolved in 1982. Embittered by ongoing change he tried to confront it in newspapers; he compared the setting of late transición to that of the mid-1930s, when Spain was struggling infected with deadly political viruses. He remained on the sidelines of politics; when mushrooming Traditionalist grouplets united in in 1986 Gambra focused rather on youth Carlist organizations, his spotlight on cultural heritage and education. His objective was to promote Traditionalist values in the increasingly secular, modern consumer Spanish society. \n\nIn the late 1980s and the early 1990s Gambra was considered supreme authority on theory of Traditionalism. This was acknowledged during homage celebrations organized in 1998, though formal recognition came 3 years later. In 2001 Don Sixto, the younger son of Don Javier styled as Abanderado de la Tradición (though falling short either of claiming the throne or even claiming the Carlist regency) nominated Gambra chief of his Secretaría Política. Not all the Traditionalists recognized Gambra's authority; the Carloctavistas and Comunión Tradicionalista Carlista - not admitting allegiance to any dynastical line - dissociated themselves from the nomination. Assuming political leadership of the sixtinos Carlists, the 81-year-old considered his elevation another cross to bear, though as an octogenarian Gambra remained fairly active; his last public appearance took place during the Cerro de los Ángeles feast in 2002.\n\nGambra emerged as a notable Traditionalist theorist in the mid-1950s. In the late 1960s he was already a recognized authority within the movement and beyond, with first homage sessions organized in 1968; at that time his books on culture and Christianity earned him name also among wider national audience. With the commencing transición of the late 1970s his works went out of fashion up to the point of withdrawing them from bookstores. Following the 1983 publication of \"El lenguaje y los mitos\" he started to disappear from public discourse, publishing either in specialized reviews or partisan press titles. Within Traditionalism he grew to an iconic figure, honored by 1998 homage session and a monograph by , published the same year. Though he gained a number of prizes, all of them were awarded by conservative institutions. His 2004 death was noted by some though not all nationwide newspapers and acknowledged by monographic issue of \"Anales de Fundación Francisco Elías de Tejada\".\n\nTaxonomy of Gambra's work is unclear. Today he is usually vaguely referred to as \"thinker\", an application used also by the Spanish press during his lifetime, alternating with \"publicista\", \"catedrático\", \"profesor\" or \"ensayista\". When it comes to detailed designation his work is usually classified as philosophy, though some see it as part of historiography or political science. In general Spanish encyclopedias he usually merits very brief notes. Some philosophy-dedicated dictionaries ignore him, some just mention his name and in few he is treated at length. In some manuals he appears in entries dealing with Traditionalism, though featured as a secondary theorist who failed to provide original contribution and was rather a renovator of earlier thought. As a historian by some he is denied sound credentials, counted among pseudo-scientific \"historiografia neotradicionalista\", others challenge this approach. As education official he is considered opponent of modernising technocratic changes. He is sometimes counted among members of \"generación de 1948\".\n\nWithin Traditionalism Gambra remains one of the all-time greats. His opus is applauded as grand contribution, a synthesis and a holistic \"cosmovisión católica y española\", though few authors consider his input an update rather than an original contribution. Gambra's followers see him as \"pensador tradicionalista contemporáneo más importante\", \"esencia del tradicionalismo\" or even \"el más grande y el más fiel filósofo español de la segunda mitad del siglo XX\", himself and counter-revolution being one and the same thing. However, also within the Traditionalist realm he found some of his concepts – especially his intransigence - challenged, like in case of a 2003 polemics with Alvaro d'Ors. During the 2014 conference on Traditionalism Gambra was dedicated one paper and featured prominently in a number of others; apart from that, both his sons acted as speakers. In the 2015 synthesis of Traditionalist thought he is the second – after Elías de Tejada - most featured author. Some of Gambra's essay books are being re-published, especially \"El Silencio de Dios\" enjoyed a number of editions and was translated into French and English. A new book was released posthumously.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "964412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964412", "title": "Robert Baker Aitken", "text": "Robert Baker Aitken\n\nRobert Baker Dairyu Chotan Aitken Rōshi (June 19, 1917 – August 5, 2010) was a Zen teacher in the Harada-Yasutani lineage. He co-founded the Honolulu Diamond Sangha in 1959\ntogether with his wife, Anne Hopkins Aitken. Aitken received Dharma transmission from Koun Yamada in 1985 but decided to live as a layperson. He was a socialist advocating social justice for gays, women and Native Hawaiians throughout his life, and was one of the original founders of the Buddhist Peace Fellowship.\n\nRobert Aitken was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in 1917, then was raised in Hawaii from the age of five.\n\nLiving in Guam as a civilian working in construction—at the onset of World War II—he was detained by the Japanese and held in internment camps for the duration of the war. In one such internment camp in Kobe, Japan in 1944 he met the scholar Reginald Horace Blyth, with whom he had frequent discussions on Zen Buddhism and anarchism. At the conclusion of the war he returned to Hawaii and obtained a B.A. in English literature and an MA in Japanese from the University of Hawaii.\n\nIn the late 1940s, while going to classes briefly at the University of California in Berkeley, California, he met Nyogen Senzaki. Originally in California hoping for an encounter with Krishnamurti, he began to study with Senzaki in Los Angeles. It was during this period that his commitment to leftist social issues - such as pacifism and labor rights - became more vocal. As a result of his advocacy, he was investigated during this period by the FBI.\n\nIn 1950 he went back to Japan, under a grant to study haiku and followed Senzaki's recommendation that he study Zen there. There he took part in his first sesshin at Engaku-ji, a temple in Kamakura, Japan. Soon after, he met Nakagawa Soen, who persuaded him to come for a stay at Ryutakuji for the next seven months. During this period Soen took over for the ailing abbot of the temple, Yamamoto Gempo. Aitken then came down with a case of dysentery, and returned home to Hawaii. He married his second wife Anne Hopkins in 1957 and made occasional trips back to Japan. In 1957 Aitken met Hakuun Yasutani and sat with him for the first time.\n\nIn 1959 he and Anne began a meditation group in Honolulu at their residence, which became known as the Koko-an zendo. The community that gathered at this zendo were then named the Diamond Sangha by the two. The Diamond Sangha has affiliate zen centers in South America, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Europe and is known for making the rigors of traditional Zen accessible to lay practitioners.\n\nIn 1960 Soen Nakagawa Roshi asked young monk Eido Tai Shimano to travel to Honolulu to assist at the Diamond Sangha center.\n\nIn 1961, Aitken made an extended stay in Japan to study under Haku'un Yasutani, eventually ending his studies with Soen. He then worked in various capacities at the East-West Center and the University of Hawaii until 1969, when he and Anne moved to Maui, Hawaii to found the Maui Zendo in Haiku-Pauwela. Koun Yamada Rōshi was invited to lead the Diamond Sangha and he moved to Hawaii in 1971. In 1974 Aitken was given permission to teach by Koun Yamada, receiving full Dharma transmission from him in 1985.\n\nRobert Aitken was a social activist through much of his adult life, beginning with protesting against nuclear testing during the 1940s. He was an outspoken critic of the Vietnam War, and became a strong opponent of the nuclear arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union. He was among the earlier proponents of deep ecology in religious America, and was outspoken in his beliefs on the equality of men and women. In 1978 Aitken helped found the Buddhist Peace Fellowship, an organization that advocates conflict resolution globally.\n\nAitken Roshi died after a brief bout with pneumonia on August 5, 2010 in Honolulu, Oahu, Hawaii.\n\nRobert Aitken appointed a number of successors, several of whom also appointed successors:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6746385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746385", "title": "Rudolf Steiner and the Theosophical Society", "text": "Rudolf Steiner and the Theosophical Society\n\nThe relationship between Rudolf Steiner and the Theosophical Society, co-founded in 1875 by H.P. Blavatsky with Henry Steel Olcott and others, was a complex and changing one.\n\nIn 1899, Steiner published an article in the \"Magazin für Literatur\", titled \"Goethe's Secret Revelation\", on the esoteric nature of Goethe's fairy tale, \"The Green Snake and the Beautiful Lily\". This article led to an invitation by the Count and Countess Brockdorff to speak to a gathering of Theosophists on the subject of Friedrich Nietzsche. This invitation was followed by a second, the occasion of what he later considered to be his first fully 'esoteric' lecture, once again on the topic of Goethe's fairy tale. \n\nSteiner continued speaking regularly to the members of the Theosophical Society, becoming the head of its newly constituted German section in 1902. The German Section of the Theosophical Society grew rapidly under Steiner's leadership as he lectured throughout much of Europe on his spiritual science. Through his lecturing to Theosophists, Steiner met Marie von Sievers, owner of the Theosophical headquarters in Berlin, who was to become his spiritual partner and second wife. From the end of 1903 Steiner and von Sievers became the inseparable centre of Berlin Theosophy. \n\nBy 1904, Steiner was appointed by Annie Besant to be leader of an Esoteric School for Germany and Austria. Steiner made it clear that this school would teach a Western spiritual path harmonious with, but differing fundamentally in approach from, other Theosophical paths. These and other differences with Besant became particularly pronounced at the Theosophical Congress in Munich in 1907—organized by Steiner—its focus on artistic expression was a sharp departure from the Blavatsky tradition. \n\nSteiner's lecture cycles from 1909 onwards emphasized his research into Christianity, toward which Mme. Blavatsky had been notably hostile. Thus, the tensions grew between the main society and the German section. The relationship between the Theosophical Society centered in Adyar, India and its German section became increasingly strained as the new strains of Steiner's teaching became apparent. \n\nSteiner's popularity as a lecturer spread far beyond the borders of Germany: he was active in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Norway, Austria and other countries. Besant tried to restrict him to lecturing in Germany itself, but this contravened both Theosophical Society statutes as well as a statement of Besant's greeting this broadening lecture activity, issued some months before. These tensions finally came to a head over the question of Jiddu Krishnamurti, a young Indian boy to whom C. W. Leadbeater, followed by Annie Besant, attributed messianic status as the new World Teacher, an incarnation of the Lord Maitreya. Steiner quickly denied this attribution of messianic status to Krishnamurti, claiming that Christ's earthly incarnation in Jesus was a unique event. Steiner held that though the human being generally goes through a series of repeated earth lives, the spiritual being Christ incarnated only once in a physical body. Christ, he said, would reappear in \"the etheric\" — the realm that lives between people and in community life — not as a physical individual. Steiner and the majority of the German-speaking Theosophists broke away to found a new group, the Anthroposophical Society, at the end of 1912. Shortly thereafter, Besant revoked the German section's membership in the Theosophical Society on the grounds of the section's refusal to allow admission to adherents of a Theosophical organization established to support the mission of Krishnamurti, the Order of the Star in the East. Anthroposophists were offended when Besant falsely claimed that Steiner had been educated by Jesuits.\n\nThe World Teacher concept was unpopular with many theosophists, and was repudiated by Krishnamurti himself in 1929, leading to a crisis in the Theosophical Society. It was, however, a basic principle of the Theosophical Society that adherents of all religions were admitted. \n\nAs a result of the conflict, two steps followed in rapid succession:\n\nSteiner later claimed that he never had considered himself to be part of the Theosophical movement. Even while the leader of the German section of the movement, he made a great point of his complete independence of philosophical thought and esoteric teachings from the Theosophical Society's esoteric path. His reaction to the above events was: \"I myself experience what has happened — apart from what has been sobering and painful — as a great liberation from the oppressive narrowness that has characterized the life of the Theosophical Society for years.\"\n\nThe basic structural skeletons of Steiner's cosmology and of his description of the human being as composed of various physical and spiritual aspects are based on Blavatsky's schema, to whom he acknowledged his debt. Steiner's elaborations of these (in his \"Theosophy\" and \"Outline of Esoteric Science\") diverge from other theosophical presentations both in style and in substance, however.\n"}
{"id": "7084460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7084460", "title": "Sadiq Jalal al-Azm", "text": "Sadiq Jalal al-Azm\n\nSadiq Jalal Al-Azm ( \"Ṣādiq Jalāl al-‘Aẓm\"; 1934 – December 11, 2016) was a Professor Emeritus of Modern European Philosophy at the University of Damascus in Syria and was, until 2007, a visiting professor in the Department of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University. His main area of specialization was the work of German philosopher Immanuel Kant, but he later placed a greater emphasis upon the Islamic world and its relationship to the West, evidenced by his contribution to the discourse of Orientalism. Al-Azm was also known as a human rights advocate and a champion of intellectual freedom and free speech.\n\nAl-Azm was born in Damascus, Syrian Republic, into the prominent Al-Azm family. The Al-Azm family rose to prominence in the eighteenth century under the rule of the Ottoman Empire in Greater Syria.\n\nAl-Azm was schooled in Beirut, Lebanon, earning a B.A. in Philosophy from the American University of Beirut in 1957. Al-Azm earned an M.A. in 1959 and a Ph.D. in 1961 from Yale University, majoring in Modern European Philosophy.\n\nIn 1963, after finishing his Ph.D., he began teaching at the American University of Beirut. His 1968 book \"Al-Nakd al-Dhati Ba’da al-Hazima\" (\"Self-Criticism After the Defeat\") (Dar al-Taliah, Beirut) analyzes the impact of the Six-Day War on Arabs. Many of his books are banned in Arab nations (with the exception of Lebanon).\n\nHe was a professor of Modern European Philosophy in the Department of Philosophy and Sociology at the University of Damascus from 1977 to 1999. He continued to be active in lecturing at European and American universities as a visiting professor. In 2004, he won the Erasmus Prize with Fatema Mernissi and Abdulkarim Soroush. In 2004 he received the Dr. Leopold Lucas Prize awarded on behalf of the Protestant Faculty of the University of Tübingen by Professor Eilert Herms with an address entitled \"Islam and Secular Humanism\" In 2005, he became a Dr. Honoris Causa at Hamburg University. In 2015 he was awarded the Goethe Medal by the president of the Goethe Institute.\n\nAl-Azm was at the center of a political controversy in December 1969 when he was arrested \"in absentia\" with his publisher by the Lebanese government; he had fled to Syria only to later return to Beirut to turn himself in, where he was jailed in early January 1970. He was charged for writing a book that aimed at provoking feuds among the religious sects of Lebanon. This was after publication in book form of various essays that previously appeared in journals, magazines and periodicals. Together, they comprised the 1969 book, \"Naqd al-Fikr al-Dini\" (\"Critique of Religious Thought\") (Dar al-Taliah, Beirut). In it, Al-Azm's rebuke of political and religious leaders and the media who supported them for exploiting their populations' religious sentiments was relentless and made him enemies. He applied a Marxist-materialist critique to religion, not to discredit people's religious commitments, but to expose how \"Arab regimes found in religion a crutch they could use to calm down the Arab public and cover-up for their incompetence and failure laid bare by the defeat, by adopting religious and spiritual explanations for the Israeli victory...\"\n\nAl-Azm was released from prison in mid-January 1970 after the \"Court decided in consensus to drop the charges filed against the Defendant Sadiq Al-Azm and Bashir Al-Daouk due to the lack of criminal elements they were charged with.\" Subsequent editions of \"Naqd al-Fikr al-Dini\" include the Documents from the Tribunal and continue to be published in Arabic to this day, though with restricted access in the Middle East.\n\nAl-Azm long believed his arrest was motivated by other factors, perhaps as a way to \"settle scores with their critics and foes.\" Regardless, the arguments Al-Azm raised in \"Critique of Religious Thought\" continue to be debated, and there have been numerous books published in Arabic furthering the positions of both sides of the debate. The most thorough chronicling of the \"affair\", to use the author's own words, outside the Middle East was in the German journal, \"Der Islam,\" by Stefan Wild in an essay translated \"God and Man in Lebanon: The Sadiq Al-Azm Affair\" in 1971.\n\nAl-Azm was a critic of Edward Said's \"Orientalism\", claiming that it essentialises 'the West' in the same manner that Said criticises imperial powers and their scholars of essentialising 'the East'. In a 1981 essay, Al-Azm wrote of Said: \"the stylist and polemicist in Edward Said very often runs away with the systematic thinker ... we find Said ... tracing the origins of Orientalism all the way back to Homer, Aeschylus, Euripides and Dante. In other words, Orientalism is not really a thoroughly modern phenomenon, as we thought earlier, but is the natural product of an ancient and almost irresistible European bent of mind to misrepresent the realities of other cultures, peoples and their languages. ... Here the author seems to be saying that the 'European mind', from Homer to Karl Marx and A.H.R.Gibb, is inherently bent on distorting all human realities other than its own.\"\n\nWithin a decade, Al-Azm became an active participant in the dialogue surrounding free speech and the 1988 publication of \"The Satanic Verses\" by Salman Rushdie.\n\nAl-Azm wrote numerous books and articles in Arabic, and some have been translated into European languages including Italian, German, Danish, French. Neither \"Al-Nakd al-Dhati Ba’da al-Hazima\" nor \"Naqd al-Fikr al-Dini\" has been translated in its entirety into English, though selections of \"Naqd al-Fikr al-Dini\" have appeared in English translation in John J. Donohue and John L. Esposito's \"Islam in Transition: Muslim Perspectives\" ([1982]2007, 2nd Ed.) Additionally, chapter two of \"Nakd al-Fikr al-Dini\" was translated into English in a 2011 Festschrift in honor of al-Azm's career published under the title \"Orientalism and Conspiracy: Politics and Conspiracy Theory in the Islamic World, Essays in Honour of Sadiq J. Al-Azm.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4444491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4444491", "title": "Seiichi Hatano", "text": "Seiichi Hatano\n\nphilosophy of religion dealing mostly with western religion and also western philosophical thoughts in theological aspects of Christianity. \n\nHatano was born in Matsumoto in Nagano Prefecture, and educated at Tokyo Imperial University, from which he graduated in 1899. He was very influential in stimulating the study in Japan of Western philosophy and religion, both through his teaching (he was the first to teach the history of Western philosophy at Tokyo Semmon Gakko, now Waseda University), and through his early writings. These included \"An Outline of the History of Western Philosophy\" (1897), \"The Origins of Christianity\" (1909), and \"A Study of Spinoza\" (1904–1905). The last of these was originally written in German and only translated into Japanese in 1910). It was reprinted after WW2.\n\nHe opposed a positivist approach to religion, arguing that though rationality underpinned religious beliefs, it depended upon an autonomous form of experience to discover at least partial truth.\n\nHe died in Tokyo at the age of seventy-three.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "150497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150497", "title": "Self-esteem", "text": "Self-esteem\n\nSelf-esteem reflects an individual's overall subjective emotional evaluation of their own worth. It is the decision made by an individual as an attitude towards the self. Self-esteem encompasses beliefs about oneself, (for example, \"I am competent\", \"I am worthy\"), as well as emotional states, such as triumph, despair, pride, and shame. Smith and Mackie (2007) defined it by saying \"The self-concept is what we think about the self; self-esteem, is the positive or negative evaluations of the self, as in how we feel about it.\" \n\nSelf-esteem is attractive as a social psychological construct because researchers have conceptualized it as an influential predictor of certain outcomes, such as academic achievement, happiness, satisfaction in marriage and relationships, and criminal behaviour. Self-esteem can apply specifically to a particular dimension (for example, \"I believe I am a good writer and feel happy about that\") or a global extent (for example, \"I believe I am a bad person, and feel bad about myself in general\"). Psychologists usually regard self-esteem as an enduring personality characteristic (\"trait\" self-esteem), though normal, short-term variations (\"state\" self-esteem) also exist. Synonyms or near-synonyms of self-esteem include many things: self-worth, self-regard, self-respect, and self-integrity.\n\nThe identification of self-esteem as a distinct psychological construct is thought to have its origins in the work of philosopher and psychologist, geologist, anthropologist William James (1892). James identified multiple dimensions of the self, with two levels of hierarchy: processes of knowing (called the 'I-self') and the resulting knowledge about the self (the 'Me-self'). Observation about the self and storage of those observations by the I-self create three types of knowledge, which collectively account for the Me-self, according to James. These are the material self, social self, and spiritual self. The social self comes closest to self-esteem, comprising all characteristics recognized by others. The material self consists of representations of the body and possessions, and the spiritual self of descriptive representations and evaluative dispositions regarding the self. This view of self-esteem as the collection of an individual's attitudes toward oneself remains today.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, sociologist Morris Rosenberg defined self-esteem as a feeling of self-worth and developed the Rosenberg self-esteem scale (RSES), which became the most-widely used scale to measure self-esteem in the social sciences.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the behaviorist movement minimized introspective study of mental processes, emotions and feelings, replacing introspection with objective study through experiments on behaviors observed in relation with environment. Behaviorism viewed the human being as an animal subject to reinforcements, and suggested placing psychology as an experimental science, similar to chemistry or biology. As a consequence, clinical trials on self-esteem were overlooked, since behaviorists considered the idea less liable to rigorous measurement.\nIn the mid-20th century, the rise of phenomenology and humanistic psychology led to renewed interest in self-esteem. Self-esteem then took a central role in personal self-actualization and in the treatment of psychic disorders. Psychologists started to consider the relationship between psychotherapy and the personal satisfaction of persons with high self-esteem as useful to the field. This led to new elements being introduced to the concept of self-esteem, including the reasons why people tend to feel less worthy and why people become discouraged or unable to meet challenges by themselves.\n\nIn 1992 the political scientist Francis Fukuyama associated self-esteem with what Plato called \"thymos\" - the \"spiritedness\" part of the Platonic soul.\n\nThe importance of self-esteem gained endorsement from some government and non-government groups starting around the 1970s, such that one can speak of a self-esteem movement. This movement can be used as an example of promising evidence that psychological research can have an effect on forming public policy. The underlying idea of the movement was that low self-esteem was the root of the problem for individuals, making it the root of societal problems and dysfunctions. A leading figure of the movement, psychologist Nathaniel Branden, stated: \"[I] cannot think of a single psychological problem – from anxiety and depression, to fear of intimacy or of success, to spouse battery or child molestation – that is not traced back to the problem of low self-esteem\".\n\nSelf-esteem was believed to be a cultural phenomenon of Western individualistic societies since low self-esteem was not found in collectivist countries such as Japan.\nConcern about low self-esteem and its many presumed negative consequences led California assemblyman John Vasconcellos to work to set up and fund the Task Force on Self-Esteem and Personal and Social Responsibility in California in 1986. Vasconcellos argued that this task force could combat many of the state's problems - from crime and teen pregnancy to school underachievement and pollution. He compared increasing self-esteem to giving out a vaccine for a disease: it could help protect people from being overwhelmed by life's challenges.\n\nThe task force set up committees in many California counties and formed a committee of scholars to review the available literature on self-esteem. This committee found very small associations between low self-esteem and its assumed consequences, ultimately showing that low self-esteem is not the root of all societal problems and not as important as the committee had originally thought. However, the authors of the paper that summarized the review of the literature still believe that self-esteem is an independent variable that affects major social problems. The task force disbanded in 1995, and the National Council for Self-Esteem and later the National Association for Self-Esteem (NASE) was established, taking on the task force's mission. Vasconcellos and Jack Canfield were members of its advisory board in 2003, and members of its Masters' Coalition included Anthony Robbins, Bernie Siegel, and Gloria Steinem.\n\nMany early theories suggested that self-esteem is a basic human need or motivation. American psychologist Abraham Maslow included self-esteem in his hierarchy of human needs. He described two different forms of \"esteem\": the need for respect from others in the form of recognition, success, and admiration, and the need for self-respect in the form of self-love, self-confidence, skill, or aptitude. Respect from others was believed to be more fragile and easily lost than inner self-esteem. According to Maslow, without the fulfillment of the self-esteem need, individuals will be driven to seek it and unable to grow and obtain self-actualization. Maslow also states that the healthiest expression of self-esteem \"is the one which manifests in respect we deserve for others, more than renown, fame and flattery\". Modern theories of self-esteem explore the reasons humans are motivated to maintain a high regard for themselves. Sociometer theory maintains that self-esteem evolved to check one's level of status and acceptance in ones' social group. According to \"Terror Management Theory\", self-esteem serves a protective function and reduces anxiety about life and death.\n\nSelf-esteem is important because it shows ourselves how we view the way we are and the sense of our personal value. Thus, it affects the way we are and act in the world and the way we are related to everybody else.\n\nCarl Rogers (1902-1987), an advocate of humanistic psychology, theorized the origin of many people's problems to be that they despise themselves and consider themselves worthless and incapable of being loved. This is why Rogers believed in the importance of giving unconditional acceptance to a client and when this was done it could improve the client's self-esteem. In his therapy sessions with clients, he offered positive regard no matter what. Indeed, the concept of self-esteem is approached since then in humanistic psychology as an inalienable right for every person, summarized in the following sentence:\n\nSelf-esteem is typically assessed using self-report inventories.\n\nOne of the most widely used instruments, the Rosenberg self-esteem scale (RSES) is a 10-item self-esteem scale score that requires participants to indicate their level of agreement with a series of statements about themselves. An alternative measure, The Coopersmith Inventory uses a 50-question battery over a variety of topics and asks subjects whether they rate someone as similar or dissimilar to themselves. If a subject's answers demonstrate solid self-regard, the scale regards them as well adjusted. If those answers reveal some inner shame, it considers them to be prone to social deviance.\n\nImplicit measures of self-esteem began to be used in the 1980s. These rely on indirect measures of cognitive processing thought to be linked to implicit self-esteem, including the Name Letter Task. Such indirect measures are designed to reduce awareness of the process of assessment. When used to assess implicit self-esteem, psychologists feature self-relevant stimuli to the participant and then measure how quickly a person identifies positive or negative stimuli. For example, if a woman was given the self-relevant stimuli of female and mother, psychologists would measure how quickly she identified the negative word, evil, or the positive word, kind.\n\nExperiences in a person's life are a major source of how self-esteem develops. In the early years of a child's life, parents have a significant influence on self-esteem and can be considered a main source of positive and negative experiences a child will have. Unconditional love from parents helps a child develop a stable sense of being cared for and respected. These feelings translate into later effects on self-esteem as the child grows older. Students in elementary school who have high self-esteem tend to have authoritative parents who are caring, supportive adults who set clear standards for their child and allow them to voice their opinion in decision making.\n\nAlthough studies thus far have reported only a correlation of warm, supportive parenting styles (mainly authoritative and permissive) with children having high self-esteem, these parenting styles could easily be thought of as having some causal effect in self-esteem development. Childhood experiences that contribute to healthy self-esteem include being listened to, being spoken to respectfully, receiving appropriate attention and affection and having accomplishments recognized and mistakes or failures acknowledged and accepted. Experiences that contribute to low self-esteem include being harshly criticized, being physically, sexually or emotionally abused, being ignored, ridiculed or teased or being expected to be \"perfect\" all the time.\n\nDuring school-aged years, academic achievement is a significant contributor to self-esteem development. A student consistently achieving success or consistently failing will have a strong academic effect on their individual self-esteem. Social experiences are another important contributor to self-esteem. As children go through school, they begin to understand and recognize differences between themselves and their classmates. Using social comparisons, children assess whether they did better or worse than classmates in different activities. These comparisons play an important role in shaping the child's self-esteem and influence the positive or negative feelings they have about themselves. As children go through adolescence, peer influence becomes much more important. Adolescents make appraisals of themselves based on their relationships with close friends. Successful relationships among friends are very important to the development of high self-esteem for children. Social acceptance brings about confidence and produces high self-esteem, whereas rejection from peers and loneliness brings about self-doubts and produces low self-esteem.\n\nAdolescence shows an increase in self-esteem that continues to increase in young adulthood and middle age. A decrease is seen from middle age to old age with varying findings on whether it is a small or large decrease. Reasons for the variability could be because of differences in health, cognitive ability, and socioeconomic status in old age. No differences have been found between males and females in their development of self-esteem. Multiple cohort studies show that there is not a difference in the life-span trajectory of self-esteem between generations due to societal changes such as grade inflation in education or the presence of social media.\n\nHigh levels of mastery, low risk taking, and better health are ways to predict higher self-esteem. In terms of personality, emotionally stable, extroverted, and conscientious individuals experience higher self-esteem. These predictors have shown us that self-esteem has trait-like qualities by remaining stable over time like personality and intelligence. However, this does not mean it can not be changed. Hispanic adolescents have a slightly lower self-esteem than their black and white peers, but then slightly higher levels by age 30. African Americans have a sharper increase in self-esteem in adolescence and young adulthood compared to Whites. However, during old age, they experience a more rapid decline in self-esteem.\n\nShame can be a contributor to those with problems of low self-esteem. Feelings of shame usually occur because of a situation where the social self is devalued, such as a socially evaluated poor performance. A poor performance leads to higher responses of psychological states that indicate a threat to the social self namely a decrease in social self-esteem and an increase in shame. This increase in shame can be helped with self-compassion.\n\nThere are three levels of self-evaluation development in relation to the real self, ideal self, and the dreaded self. The real, ideal, and dreaded selves develop in children in a sequential pattern on cognitive levels.\n\nThis development brings with it increasingly complicated and encompassing moral demands. Level 3 is where individuals' self-esteem can suffer because they do not feel as though they are living up to certain expectations. This feeling will moderately effect one's self-esteem with an even larger effect seen when individuals believe they are becoming their Dreaded Self\n\nPeople with a healthy level of self-esteem:\n\nA person can have a high self-esteem and hold it confidently where they do not need reassurance from others to maintain their positive self view, whereas others with defensive, high self-esteem may still report positive self-evaluations on the Rosenberg Scale, as all high self-esteem individuals do; however, their positive self-views are fragile and vulnerable to criticism. Defensive high self-esteem individuals internalize subconscious self-doubts and insecurities, causing them to react very negatively to any criticism they may receive. There is a need for constant positive feedback from others for these individuals to maintain their feelings of self-worth. The necessity of repeated praise can be associated with boastful, arrogant behavior or sometimes even aggressive and hostile feelings toward anyone who questions the individual's self-worth, an example of threatened egotism.\n\nImplicit self-esteem refers to a person's disposition to evaluate themselves positively or negatively in a spontaneous, automatic, or unconscious manner. It contrasts with explicit self-esteem, which entails more conscious and reflective self-evaluation. Both explicit self-esteem and implicit self-esteem are subtypes of self-esteem proper.\n\nNarcissism is a disposition people may have that represents an excessive love for one's self. It is characterized by an inflated view of self-worth. Individuals who score high on Narcissism measures, Robert Raskin's \"40 Item True or False Test\", would likely select true to such statements as \"If I ruled the world, it would be a much better place.\" There is only a moderate correlation between narcissism and self-esteem; that is to say that an individual can have high self-esteem but low narcissism or can be a conceited, obnoxious person and score high self-esteem and high narcissism.\n\nThreatened egotism is characterized as a response to criticism that threatens the ego of narcissists; they often react in a hostile and aggressive manner.\n\nLow self-esteem can result from various factors, including genetic factors, physical appearance or weight, mental health issues, socioeconomic status, significant emotional experiences, peer pressure or bullying.\n\nA person with low self-esteem may show some of the following characteristics:\n\n\nIndividuals with low self-esteem tend to be critical of themselves. Some depend on the approval and praise of others when evaluating self-worth. Others may measure their likability in terms of successes: others will accept themselves if they succeed but will not if they fail.\n\nThis classification proposed by Martin Ross distinguishes three states of self-esteem compared to the \"feats\" (triumphs, honors, virtues) and the \"anti-feats\" (defeats, embarrassment, shame, etc.) of the individuals.\n\nThe individual does not regard themselves as valuable or lovable. They may be overwhelmed by defeat, or shame, or see themselves as such, and they name their \"anti-feat\". For example, if they consider that being over a certain age is an anti-feat, they define themselves with the name of their anti-feat, and say, \"I am old\". They express actions and feelings such as pity, insulting themselves, and they may become paralyzed by their sadness.\n\nThe individual has a generally positive self-image. However, their self-esteem is also vulnerable to the perceived risk of an imminent anti-feat (such as defeat, embarrassment, shame, discredit), consequently they are often nervous and regularly use defense mechanisms. A typical protection mechanism of those with a Vulnerable Self-Esteem may consist in avoiding decision-making. Although such individuals may outwardly exhibit great self-confidence, the underlying reality may be just the opposite: the apparent self-confidence is indicative of their heightened fear of anti-feats and the fragility of their self-esteem. They may also try to blame others to protect their self-image from situations which would threaten it. They may employ defense mechanisms, including attempting to lose at games and other competitions in order to protect their self-image by publicly dissociating themselves from a 'need to win', and asserting an independence from social acceptance which they may deeply desire. In this deep fear of being unaccepted by an individual's peers, they make poor life choices by making risky choices.\n\nPeople with strong self-esteem have a positive self-image and enough strength so that anti-feats do not subdue their self-esteem. They have less fear of failure. These individuals appear humble, cheerful, and this shows a certain strength not to boast about feats and not to be afraid of anti-feats.\nThey are capable of fighting with all their might to achieve their goals because, if things go wrong, their self-esteem will not be affected. They can acknowledge their own mistakes precisely because their self-image is strong, and this acknowledgment will not impair or affect their self-image. They live with less fear of losing social prestige, and with more happiness and general well-being.\nHowever, no type of self-esteem is indestructible, and due to certain situations or circumstances in life, one can fall from this level into any other state of self-esteem.\n\nA distinction is made between contingent (or conditional) and non-contingent (or unconditional) self-esteem.\n\nContingent self-esteem is derived from external sources, such as (a) what others say, (b) one's success or failure, (c) one's competence, or (d) relationship-contingent self-esteem.\n\nTherefore, contingent self-esteem is marked by instability, unreliability, and vulnerability. Persons lacking a non-contingent self-esteem are \"predisposed to an incessant pursuit of self-value.\" However, because the pursuit of contingent self-esteem is based on receiving approval, it is doomed to fail. No one receives constant approval and disapproval often evokes depression. Furthermore, fear of disapproval inhibits activities in which failure is possible.\nNon-contingent self-esteem is described as true, stable, and solid. It springs from a belief that one is \"acceptable period, acceptable before life itself, ontologically acceptable\". Belief that one is \"ontologically acceptable\" is to believe that one's acceptability is \"the way things \"be\" without contingency\". In this belief, as expounded by theologian Paul Tillich, acceptability is not based on a person's virtue. It is an acceptance given \"\"in spite of our guilt\", not because we \"have no guilt\"\".\n\nPsychiatrist Thomas A Harris drew on theologian Paul Tillich for his classic \"I'm OK – You're OK\" that addresses non-contingent self-esteem. Harris translated Tillich's \"acceptable\" by the vernacular \"OK\", a term that means \"acceptable\". The Christian message, said Harris, is not \"YOU CAN BE OK, IF\", It is \"YOU ARE ACCEPTED, unconditionally\".\n\nA secure non-contingent self-esteem springs from the belief that one is ontologically acceptable and accepted.\n\nAbraham Maslow states that psychological health is not possible unless the essential core of the person is fundamentally accepted, loved and respected by others and by her or his self. Self-esteem allows people to face life with more confidence, benevolence and optimism, and thus easily reach their goals and self-actualize.\n\nSelf-esteem may make people convinced they deserve happiness. Understanding this is fundamental, and universally beneficial, since the development of positive self-esteem increases the capacity to treat other people with respect, benevolence and goodwill, thus favoring rich interpersonal relationships and avoiding destructive ones. For Erich Fromm, love of others and love of ourselves are not alternatives. On the contrary, an attitude of love toward themselves will be found in all those who are capable of loving others. Self-esteem allows creativity at the workplace, and is a specially critical condition for teaching professions.\n\nJosé-Vicente Bonet claims that the importance of self-esteem is obvious as a lack of self-esteem is, he says, not a loss of esteem from others, but self-rejection. Bonet claims that this corresponds to Major depressive disorder. Freud also claimed that the depressive has suffered \"an extraordinary diminution in his self-regard, an impoverishment of his ego on a grand scale...He has lost his self-respect\".\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles, a document on international human rights law addresses the discriminatory attitude toward LGBT peoples that makes their self-esteem low to be subject to human rights violation including human trafficking. and World Health Organization recommends in \"Preventing Suicide\" published in 2000 that strengthening students' self-esteem is important to protect children and adolescents against mental distress and despondency, enabling them to cope adequately with difficult and stressful life situations. How this might be done, and whether it would be effective is unclear.\n\nOther than increased happiness, higher self-esteem is also known to be correlated with a better ability to cope with stress and a higher likeliness that the individual takes on difficult tasks relative to those with low self-esteem.\n\nFrom the late 1970s to the early 1990s many Americans assumed as a matter of course that students' self-esteem acted as a critical factor in the grades that they earn in school, in their relationships with their peers, and in their later success in life. Under this assumption, some American groups created programs which aimed to increase the self-esteem of students. Until the 1990s little peer-reviewed and controlled research took place on this topic.\n\nPeer-reviewed research undertaken since then has not validated previous assumptions. Recent research indicates that inflating students' self-esteem in and of itself has no positive effect on grades. Roy Baumeister has shown that inflating self-esteem by itself can actually decrease grades. The relationship involving self-esteem and academic results does not signify that high self-esteem contributes to high academic results. It simply means that high self-esteem may be accomplished as a result of high academic performance due to the other variables of social interactions and life events affecting this performance.\n\"Attempts by pro-esteem advocates to encourage self-pride in students solely by reason of their uniqueness as human beings will fail if feelings of well-being are not accompanied by well-doing. It is only when students engage in personally meaningful endeavors for which they can be justifiably proud that self-confidence grows, and it is this growing self-assurance that in turn triggers further achievement.\"\n\nHigh self-esteem has a high correlation to self-reported happiness; whether this is a causal relationship has not been established. The relationship between self-esteem and life satisfaction is stronger in individualistic cultures.\n\nAdditionally, self-esteem has been found to be related to forgiveness in close relationships, in that people with high self-esteem will be more forgiving than people with low self-esteem.\n\nHigh self-esteem does not prevent children from smoking, drinking, taking drugs, or engaging in early sex. One important exception is that high self-esteem reduces the chances of bulimia in females.\n\nIn a 2014 research conducted by Robert S. Chavez and Todd F. Heatherton, it was found that self-esteem is related to the connectivity of the frontostriatal circuit. The frontostriatal pathway connects the medial prefrontal cortex, which deals with self-knowledge, to the ventral striatum, which deals with feelings of motivation and reward. Stronger anatomical pathways are correlated with higher long-term self-esteem, while stronger functional connectivity is correlated with higher short-term self-esteem.\n\nThe American psychologist Albert Ellis criticized on numerous occasions the concept of self-esteem as essentially self-defeating and ultimately destructive. Although acknowledging the human propensity and tendency to ego rating as innate, he has critiqued the philosophy of self-esteem as unrealistic, illogical and self- and socially destructive – often doing more harm than good. Questioning the foundations and usefulness of generalized ego strength, he has claimed that self-esteem is based on arbitrary definitional premises, and over-generalized, perfectionistic and grandiose thinking. Acknowledging that rating and valuing behaviours and characteristics is functional and even necessary, he sees rating and valuing human beings' totality and total selves as irrational and unethical. The healthier alternative to self-esteem according to him is unconditional self-acceptance and unconditional other-acceptance. \"Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy\" is a psychotherapy based on this approach. \n\nFor persons with low self-esteem, any positive stimulus will temporarily raise self-esteem. Therefore, possessions, sex, success, or physical appearance will produce development of self-esteem, but the development is ephemeral at best.\n\nSuch attempts to raise one's self-esteem by positive stimulus produce a \"boom or bust\" pattern. \"Compliments and positive feedback\" produce a boost, but a bust follows a lack of such feedback. For a person whose \"self-esteem is contingent\", success is \"not extra sweet\", but \"failure is extra bitter\".\n\nLife satisfaction, happiness, healthy behavioral practices, perceived efficacy, and academic success and adjustment have been associated with having high levels of self-esteem (Harter, 1987; Huebner, 1991; Lipschitz-Elhawi & Itzhaky, 2005; Rumberger 1995; Swenson & Prelow, 2005; Yarcheski & Mahon, 1989). However, a common mistake is to think that loving oneself is necessarily equivalent to narcissism, as opposed for example to what Erik Erikson speaks of as \"a post-narcissistic love of the ego\". A person with a healthy self-esteem accepts and loves himself/herself unconditionally, acknowledging both virtues and faults in the self, and yet, in spite of everything, is able to continue to love her/himself.\n\nIn narcissists, by contrast, an \" uncertainty about their own worth gives rise to...a self-protective, but often totally spurious, aura of grandiosity\" – producing the class \"of narcissists, or people with very high, but insecure, self-esteem... fluctuating with each new episode of social praise or rejection.\" Narcissism can thus be seen as a symptom of fundamentally low self-esteem, that is, lack of love towards oneself, but often accompanied by \"an immense increase in self-esteem\" based on \"the defense mechanism of denial by overcompensation.\"\n\"idealized love of self...rejected the part of him\" that he denigrates – \"this destructive little child\" within. Instead, the narcissist emphasizes his virtues in the presence of others, just to try to convince himself that he is a valuable person and to try to stop feeling ashamed for his faults; unfortunately such \"people with unrealistically inflated self-views, which may be especially unstable and highly vulnerable to negative information...tend to have poor social skills.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "631995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=631995", "title": "Sign of the cross", "text": "Sign of the cross\n\nThe sign of the cross (), or blessing oneself or crossing oneself, is a ritual blessing made by members of most branches of Christianity. This blessing is made by the tracing of an upright cross or + across the body with the right hand, often accompanied by spoken or mental recitation of the trinitarian formula: \"In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.\"\n\nThe movement is the tracing of the shape of a cross in the air or on one's own body, echoing the traditional shape of the cross of the Christian crucifixion narrative. There are two principal forms: one—three fingers, right to left—is exclusively used in the Eastern Orthodox Church, Church of the East and the Eastern Catholic Churches in the Byzantine, Assyrian and Chaldean traditions; the other—left to right to middle, other than three fingers—is the one used in the Latin (Catholic) Church, Anglicanism, Methodism, Presbyterianism, Lutheranism and Oriental Orthodoxy. The ritual is rare within other Christian traditions.\n\nMany individuals use the expression \"cross my heart and hope to die\" as an oath, making the sign of the cross, in order to show \"truthfulness and sincerity\", sworn before God, in both personal and legal situations.\n\nThe Cross is a symbol representing Christ’s victory over sin and death. The sign of the cross was originally made in some parts of the Christian world with the right-hand thumb across the forehead only. In other parts of the early Christian world it was done with the whole hand or with two fingers. Around the year 200 in Carthage (modern Tunisia, Africa), Tertullian wrote: \"We Christians wear out our foreheads with the sign of the cross\". Vestiges of this early variant of the practice remain: in the Roman Rite of the Mass in the Catholic Church, the faithful make this gesture on the forehead, on the lips, and on the heart at the proclamation of the Gospel; on Ash Wednesday a cross is traced in ashes on the forehead; holy oil (called chrism) is applied on the forehead for the sacrament of Confirmation (called the Holy Mystery of Chrismation in the Eastern Orthodox Church, as Orthodox call the Sacraments by the name \"Holy Mystery\"). By the 4th century, the sign of the cross involved other parts of the body beyond the forehead.\n\nThe open right hand is used in Western Christianity. The five open fingers are often said to represent the Five Wounds of Christ. This symbolism was adopted after the more ancient gesture of two or three fingers was simplified. Though this is the most common method of crossing by Western Christians, other forms are sometimes used. The West also employs the \"Small Sign of the Cross\" (+). The primary use for this is immediately before the reading of The Gospel during the Mass. Using the right thumb, a small cross is traced over the forehead, lips, and heart of the individual while whispering or silently praying the words \"May Christ's words be on my mind, on my lips, and in my heart.\" The Small Sign is also used during the majority of the Sacraments.\n\nIn the Roman or Latin Rite Church it is customary to make the full Sign of the Cross using holy water when entering a church. The first three fingers of the right hand are dipped into the font containing the holy water and the Sign of the Cross is made on oneself. This gesture has a two-fold purpose: to remind one of their baptism and the rights and responsibilities that go with it and to also remind one that they are entering a sacred place that is set apart from the world outside.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox (including the Russian Orthodox) and Eastern Catholic Churches, the tips of the first three fingers (the thumb, index, and middle ones) are brought together, and the last two (the \"ring\" and little fingers) are pressed against the palm. The first three fingers express one's faith in the Trinity, while the remaining two fingers represent the two natures of Jesus, divine and human.\n\nIn Russia, until the reforms of Patriarch Nikon in the 17th century, it was customary to make the sign of the cross with two fingers (symbolising the dual nature of Christ). The enforcement of the three-finger sign was one of the reasons for the schism with the Old Believers whose congregations continue to use the two-finger sign of the cross.\n\nThe Oriental Orthodox (Armenians, Copts, Ethiopians etc.) generally use the \"Western\" direction as well, though often with the Byzantine finger formation.\n\nThe sign of the cross is made by touching the hand sequentially to the forehead, lower chest or stomach, and both shoulders, accompanied by the Trinitarian formula: at the forehead \"In the name of the Father\" (or \"In nomine Patris\" in Latin); at the stomach or heart \"and of the Son\" (\"et Filii\"); across the shoulders \"and of the Holy Spirit/Ghost\" (\"et Spiritus Sancti\"); and finally: \"Amen\".\n\nThere are several interpretations, according to Church Fathers: the forehead symbolizes Heaven; the solar plexus (or top of stomach), the earth; the shoulders, the place and sign of power. It also recalls both the Trinity and the Incarnation. Pope Innocent III (1198–1216) explained: \"The sign of the cross is made with three fingers, because the signing is done together with the invocation of the Trinity. ... This is how it is done: from above to below, and from the right to the left, because Christ descended from the heavens to the earth...\"\n\nThere are some variations: for example a person may first place the right hand in holy water. After moving the hand from one shoulder to the other, it may be returned to the top of the stomach. It may also be accompanied by the recitation of a prayer (e.g., the Jesus Prayer, or simply \"Lord have mercy\"). In some catholic countries, like Spain, Italy, Brazil and other Latin countries, it is customary to kiss one's thumb at the conclusion of the gesture, while in the Philippines, this extra step evolved into the thumb quickly touching the chin or lower lip.\n\nEnding the sign of the cross, usually and in the tradition, people make the right open hand upon the other (the left open hand), with all the five fingers, like in a prayer, till the height of the face.\n\nAlso there is a full genuflection, with the right knee totally given down to the level of the earth, and directly in front of the Blessed Sacrament, which for the Catholic Church is the physical presence of Jesus Christ God and the Holy Spirit.\n\nSome people use the humorous mnemonic device \"spectacles, testicles, wallet and watch\" to remember the sequence of motions, although this is frowned upon by some.\n\nTheodoret (393–457) gave the following instruction:\n\nThis is how to bless someone with your hand and make the sign of the cross over them. Hold three fingers, as equals, together, to represent the Trinity: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. These are not three gods, but one God in Trinity. The names are separate, but the divinity one. The Father was never incarnate; the Son incarnate, but not created; the Holy Ghost neither incarnate nor created, but issued from the Godhead: three in a single divinity. Divinity is one force and has one honor. They receive on obeisance from all creation, both angels and people. Thus the decree for these three fingers.\n\nYou should hold the other two fingers slightly bent, not completely straight. This is because these represent the dual nature of Christ, divine and human. God in His divinity, and human in His incarnation, yet perfect in both. The upper finger represents divinity, and the lower humanity; this way salvation goes from the higher finger to the lower. So is the bending of the fingers interpreted, for the worship of Heaven comes down for our salvation. This is how you must cross yourselves and give a blessing, as the holy fathers have commanded.\n\nPeter of Damascus (12th century) gave the following instruction:\n\nThen we should also marvel how demons and various diseases are dispelled by the sign of the precious and life-giving Cross, which all can make without cost or effort. Who can number the panegyrics composed in its honor? The holy fathers have handed down to us the inner significance of this sign, so that we can refute heretics and unbelievers. The two fingers and single hand with which it is made represent the Lord Jesus Christ crucified, and He is thereby acknowledged to exist in two natures and one hypostasis or person.\n\nThe use of the right hand betokens His infinite power and the fact that He sits at the right hand of the Father. That the sign begins with a downward movement from above signifies His descent to us from heaven. Again, the movement of the hand from the right side to the left drives away our enemies and declares that by His invincible power the Lord overcame the devil, who is on the left side, dark and lacking strength.\n\nAthanasius of Alexandria (269–373 A.D.)\nBy the signing of the holy and life-giving cross, devils and various scourges are driven away. For it is without price and without cost and praises him who can say it. The holy fathers have, by their words, transmitted to us, and even to the unbelieving heretics, how the two raised fingers and the single hand reveal Christ our God in His dual nature but single substance. The right hand proclaims His immeasurable strength, His sitting on the right hand of the Father, and His coming down unto us from Heaven. Again, by the movement of the hands to our right the enemies of God will be driven out, as the Lord triumphs over the Devil with His inconquerable power, rendering him dismal and weak.\nHistorian Herbert Thurston interprets this as indicating that at one time both Eastern and Western Christians moved the hand from the right shoulder to the left, although the point is not entirely clear. German theologian, Valentin Thalhofer, thought writings quoted in support of this, such as that of Innocent III, refer to the small cross made upon the forehead or external objects, in which the hand moves naturally from right to left, and not the big cross made from shoulder to shoulder. Andreas Andreopoulos, author of \"The Sign of the Cross\", gives a more detailed description of the development and the symbolism of the placement of the fingers and the direction of the movement.\n\nToday, Western Christians and the Oriental Orthodox touch the left shoulder before the right. Eastern Catholics and Orthodox Christians use the right-to-left movement.\n\nThe proper sequence of tracing the sign of the cross is taught to converts from Christian denominations that are either nontrinitarian or not using the gesture and non-Christian religions.\n\nThe sign of the cross may be made by individuals upon themselves as a form of prayer and by clergy upon others or objects as an act of blessing. The gesture of blessing is certainly related to the sign of the cross, but the two gestures developed independently after some point. In Eastern Christianity, the two gestures differ significantly. Priests and deacons are allowed to bless using the right hand, while bishops may bless simultaneously with both, the left mirroring the right. While individuals may make it at any time, clergy must make it at specific times (as in liturgies), and it is customary to make it on other occasions.\n\nAlthough the sign of the cross dates to ante-Nicene Christianity, it was rejected by some of the Reformers and is absent from some forms of Protestantism, although some other reformed Christian traditions, such as Anglicanism, Lutheranism, Presbyterianism, and Methodism sometimes use it. However, it has often been rejected by some Non-Conformist Protestants as being a high church practice, despite Martin Luther's positive personal view. The prescribed use of the sign in \"Book of Common Prayer\" and the defence of the sign of the cross were established in Anglican canon law in 1604.\n\nSome Christians make the sign of the cross in response to perceived blasphemy. Others sign themselves to seek God's blessing before or during an event with uncertain outcome. In Hispanic countries, people often sign themselves in public, such as athletes who cross themselves before entering the field or while concentrating for competition.\n\nThe sign of the cross is a prayer, a blessing, and a sacramental. As a sacramental, it prepares an individual to receive grace and disposes one to cooperate with it. The Christian begins his day, his prayers, and his activities with the Sign of the Cross: \"In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.\" In this way, a person dedicates the day to God and calls on him for strength in temptations and difficulties. John Vianney said a genuinely made Sign of the Cross \"makes all hell tremble.\"\n\nAlso, a longer version is commonly said while making the sign of the cross in the forehead, the mouth and the chest: \"By the sign of the cross deliver us from our enemies, you who are our God. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.\" After the \"you who are our God\" part is recited, the ritual then proceeds with the normal Catholic sign of the cross as explained above.\n\nRoman Catholicism draws a distinction between liturgical and non-liturgical use of the sign of the cross. The sign of the cross is required at certain points of the Mass: the laity sign themselves during the introductory greeting of the service, before the Gospel reading (small signs on forehead, lips, and heart), and at the final blessing; optionally, other times during the Mass when the laity often cross themselves are during a blessing with holy water, when concluding the penitential rite, immediately after receiving Communion, and when concluding private prayer after Communion. In the ordinary form of the Roman Rite the priest signs bread and wine once before the consecration. In the Tridentine Mass the priest signs the bread and wine 25 times during the Canon of the Mass, ten times before and fifteen times after they have been consecrated. The priest also uses the sign of the cross when blessing a deacon before the deacon reads the Gospel, when sending an Extraordinary Minister of Holy Communion to take the Eucharist to the sick (after Communion, but before the end of the Mass), and when blessing the congregation at the conclusion of the Mass.\n\nOrdained bishops, priests and deacons have more empowerment to bless objects and other people. While lay people may preside at certain blessings, the more a blessing is concerned with ecclesial or sacramental matters, the more it is reserved to clergy. Extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion do not ordinarily have a commission to bless in the name of the Church, as priests and deacons do. At this point in the liturgy, their specific function is to assist the clergy in the distribution of holy Communion. Extraordinary Ministers of Communion, blessing those who do not wish to or cannot receive communion can speak or raise the hand but not make the sign of the cross over the person.\n\nA priest or deacon blesses an object or person with a single sign of the cross, but a bishop blesses with a triple sign of the cross. In the Catholic organization the Legion of Mary, members doing door-to-door parish surveys bless the homes of those not home by tracing the sign of the cross on the door.\n\nIn the Eastern traditions, both celebrant and congregation make the sign of the cross quite frequently. It is customary in some Eastern traditions to cross oneself at each petition in a litany and to closely associate oneself with a particular intention being prayed for or with a saint being named. The sign of the cross is also made upon entering or leaving a church building, at the start and end of personal prayer, when passing the main altar (which represents Christ), whenever all three persons of the Trinity are addressed, and when approaching an icon.\n\nWhen an Eastern Orthodox or Eastern Catholic bishop or priest blesses with the sign of the cross, he holds the fingers of his right hand in such a way that they form the Greek abbreviation for Jesus Christ \"IC XC\". The index finger is extended to make the \"I\"; the middle finger signify letter \"C\"; the thumb touches the lowered third finger to signify the \"X\" and the little finger also signifies the letter \"C\". When a priest blesses in the sign of the cross, he positions the fingers of his right hand in the manner described as he raises his right hand, then moves his hand downwards, then to his left, then to his right. A bishop blesses with both hands (unless he is holding some sacred object such as a cross, chalice, Gospel Book, icon, etc.), holding the fingers of both hands in the same configuration, but when he moves his right hand to the left, he simultaneously moves his left hand to the right, so that the two hands cross, the left in front of the right, and then the right in front of the left. The blessing of both priests and bishops consists of three movements, in honour of the Holy Trinity.\n\nAmong Lutherans the practice was widely retained. For example, Luther's Small Catechism states that it is expected before the morning and evening prayers. Lutheranism never abandoned the practice of making the sign of the cross in principle and it was commonly retained in worship at least until the early 19th century. During the 19th and early 20th centuries it was largely in disuse until the liturgical renewal movement of the 1950s and 1960s. One exception is \"The Lutheran Hymnal\" (1941) of the Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod (LCMS), which states that \"The sign of the cross may be made at the Trinitarian Invocation and at the words of the Nicene Creed 'and the life of the world to come. Since then, the sign of the cross has become fairly commonplace among Lutherans at worship. The sign of the cross is now customary in the Divine Service. Rubrics in contemporary Lutheran worship manuals, including \"Evangelical Lutheran Worship\" of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and \"Lutheran Service Book\" used by LCMS and Lutheran Church–Canada, provide for making the sign of the cross at certain points in the liturgy. Most places are the same as the Roman Catholic practice, such as at the trinitarian formula, the benediction, at the consecration of the Eucharist, and following reciting the Nicene or Apostles' Creed.\n\nDevotional use of the sign of the cross among Lutherans also includes after receiving the Host and Chalice in the Eucharist, following Holy Absolution; similarly, they may dip their hands in the baptismal font and make the sign of the cross upon entering the church.\n\nThe sign of the cross is in the Methodist liturgy, primarily in the Methodist/ Episcopal not necessarily in the UMC. And this is made by some clergy during the \"Great Thanksgiving\", \"Confession of Sin and Pardon\", and \"benediction\". John Wesley, the principal leader of the early Methodists, prepared a revision of \"The Book of Common Prayer\" for Methodist use called \"The Sunday Service of the Methodists in North America\" which does instruct the minister to make the sign of the cross on the forehead of children just after they have been baptized. Making the sign of the cross at baptism is retained in the current Book of Worship, and widely practiced (sometimes with oil).\nFurthermore, on Ash Wednesday the sign of the cross is almost always applied by the elder to the foreheads of the laity. The liturgy for healing and wholeness, which is becoming more commonly practiced, calls for the pastor to make the sign of the cross with oil upon the foreheads of those seeking healing.\n\nWhether or not a Methodist uses the sign for private prayer is a personal choice, but it is encouraged by the bishops of the United Methodist Church. Some United Methodists also perform the sign before and after receiving Holy Communion, and some ministers also perform the sign when blessing the congregation at the end of the sermon or service.\n\nIn some Reformed churches, such as the PCUSA and the Cumberland Presbyterian Church, Presbyterian Church in America the sign of the cross is used on the foreheads during baptism or during an Ash Wednesday service when ashes are imposed on the forehead. The sign of the cross in some instances is used during Communion and during the Confession of Sin and the Creeds. In instances during a Benediction, when the minister concludes the service using the Trinitarian blessing, a hand is extended and a sign of the cross is made out toward the congregation. This type of benediction is seen in quite a few High Presbyterian groups such as the Church of Scotland and congregations across the US especially on the Mid West and East Coast of the United States.\n\nIt is common practice in the Armenian Apostolic Church to make the sign of the cross when entering or passing a church, during the start of service and at many times during Divine Liturgy. The motion is performed by joining the first three fingers, to symbolize Holy Trinity and putting the two other fingers in the palm to symbolize the two natures of Christ, then touching one's forehead, below the chest, left side, then right side and finishing with open hand on the chest again with bowing head.\n\nThe Assyrian Church of the East uniquely holds the sign of the cross as a sacrament in its own right. Another sacrament unique to the church is the Holy Leaven.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30086692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30086692", "title": "Studia Theologica", "text": "Studia Theologica\n\nStudia theologica (, in Czech and Slovak languages with English abstracts) is a peer-reviewed quarterly academic journal of theology, philosophy and church history. Since 1999, it is issued in co-operation of four Czech and Slovak theological colleges: St. Cyril and Methodius Faculty of Theology of Palacký University in Olomouc, Faculty of Theology of University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice, Catholic Theological Faculty of Charles University in Prague and Theological Faculty of University of Trnava in Bratislava.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25973256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25973256", "title": "Syed Ali Abbas Jalalpuri", "text": "Syed Ali Abbas Jalalpuri\n\nProf. Syed Ali Abbas Jalalpuri () was a professor of philosophy in Government College Lahore. He is regarded by the intellectuals of Pakistan as the Will Durant of Pakistan. He had master's degrees in Philosophy, Persian and Urdu. He wrote more than fourteen books on Philosophy, History, and Religion in Urdu language. He was known as a first-rate scholar, and his books seemed to herald an age of reason in Pakistan.\n\nHis opinions on the subjects of history, civilization, religion, philosophy, metaphysics, folklore are held in great esteem.\nIn his greatest work, Riwayat-e-Falsafa (Story of Philosophy), he tried to educate a common Urdu reader on the subject of Philosophy. This book served its purpose in popularizing the subject it discussed like Will Durant's The Story of Philosophy.\n\nLike The Dictionnaire Historique et Critique of Pierre Bayle and The Philosophical Dictionary of Voltaire, he wrote a philosophical dictionary, 'Khird Nama Jalalpuri' to explain subject's terminologies in Urdu.\nHe also wrote “Jinsiyati Mutaley” (A Study of Sex), which presented a great research work on the subject in Urdu language.\n\n1. \"Riwayat-e-Falsafa\" (Story of Philosophy)\n\n2. \"Wahdatul Wujud tey Punjabi Sha'eri\" (Pantheism and Punjabi Poetry)\n\n3. \"Iqbal Ka Ilm-e-Kalam\" (The Theology of Allama Muhammad Iqbal\n\n4. \"Maqamat-e-Waris Shah\" (Places of Waris) Shah)\n\n5. \"Ruh-e-Asar\" ( Zeit Geist or The Spirit of the Age)\n\n6. \"Aam Fikri Mughaltay\" (Common Intellectual Errors)\n\n7. \"Tareekh Ka Naya Mor\" (The New Turn of History)\n\n8. \"Rasoom Aqwam\" (The Cultures of Nations)\n\n9. \"Jinsiyati Mutaley\" (Studies in Sex).\n\n10 \"Kianat aur Insan\" (Universe and Man)\n\n11 \"Riwayat-e-Tamadan Qadeem\" (Story of Ancient Civilizations)\n\n12 \"Khird Nama Jalalpuri\" ( Jalalpuri Dictionary)\n\n13 \"Maqalat Jallapuri\" (Essays by Jalalpuri)\n\n14 \"Sibd Gulchainh\" (A collection of poetry).\n\n\"Ali Abbas Jalalpuri was a very rigorous historian of Philosophy and Epistemology. As the dominant mode of Philosophy in Indian Subcontinent has been “Analytical” I include him in the first trend as well. He is amongst first of the Modern Pakistani academics who took interest in the “Question of Civilization”, “History of Ideas” and “Academic Clarity”, “Relationship of Metaphysics, Language and Folklore”, the questions which would eventually become most important issues for European Philosopher especially after “Structuralist” revolution in Paris. Jalalpuri was aware of the inconsistencies and contradictions in explaining Iqbal when subjected to traditional Analytical Model of Philosophy. Where to place Iqbal in the Web of Modern Philosophical Ideas?” was the question he faced and he thought he had theperfect solution. Instead of trying to put Iqbal in the Project of Modernity and face the problem of Contradiction, Jalalpuri placed Iqbal among the traditional Islamic Philosophers or the “Kalamist”. So the “Paradox” is “Avoided”, Instead of Philosopher, Iqbal is a “Schoolmen” trying to complete “Islamic Scholasticism” after Ghezali. Jalalpuri is rigorous in his work. due to non existent academy, the trend ended with him. “Completing Islamic Scholasticism” is certainly a part of Iqbal’s work, but it’s a Part, not the whole.\"\n\n\"In 1971, Ali Abbas Jalalpuri wrote a very comprehensive critique of Iqbāl’s theology of modernity. He faults Iqbāl for selective and arbitrary interpretation of the Qur’ānic verses. To him, ambivalence towards pantheism and Ibn Arabi (d. 1240) at some places, his devotion to the pantheist Rumi, and his idea of Absolute Ego make it clear that Iqbāl’s theology has deep roots in\npantheism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3702166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3702166", "title": "The Citadel (film)", "text": "The Citadel (film)\n\nThe Citadel is a 1938 British drama film based on the novel of the same name by A. J. Cronin, first published in 1937. The film was directed by King Vidor and produced by Victor Saville at Denham Studios, with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer distributing the film in the UK and the US. It stars Robert Donat and Rosalind Russell.\n\nDr. Andrew Manson (Robert Donat) is an idealistic newly qualified Scottish doctor dedicated to treating the Welsh miners suffering from tuberculosis in the Welsh mining village of Blaenely and is an apprentice to Dr. Page (Basil Gill). Initially, he has many lofty scientific goals, but meets local resistance in his research. After his laboratory and notes are destroyed by the miners, he moves to London, taking working class patients in impoverished conditions. There, his purpose erodes when a chance encounter with a medical school friend, Dr. Frederick Lawford (Rex Harrison) leads to his quiet seduction by an unethical medical establishment, treating rich hypochondriacs. Christine (Rosalind Russell), his wife tries to set him back on the original path. Dr. Philip Denny (Ralph Richardson), Manson's best friend and still working for improved working class health, dies at the hands of an incompetent, social-climbing surgeon.\n\nThe film is based on the novel, but departs from it in certain vital respects. In the original text the character of Christine Manson is killed off in a road accident at the point when she and her husband have begun to address problems in their relationship. The incident involving the incompetent surgeon occurs, but it is a minor character who dies. Denny survives, and the understanding (not related in the book but implied) is that he and Manson went into practice together. The 1982 BBC adaptation of the novel stays closer to the original text.\n\n\nThe film was nominated for Oscars in four categories: Best Picture, Best Actor (Robert Donat), Directing, and Adapted Screenplay.\n\nThe film won the Best Picture Award from both the New York Film Critics Circle and the National Board of Review. It is a \"New York Times\" Critics' Pick and is also listed in \"The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made\".\n\nA Hindi-language film Tere Mere Sapne Tere Mere Sapne (1971 film), based on the same novel, was released in 1971. \n\nStreaming audio\n"}
{"id": "37842070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37842070", "title": "The Degrees of Knowledge", "text": "The Degrees of Knowledge\n\nThe Degrees of Knowledge () is a 1932 book by the philosopher Jacques Maritain, his major contribution to epistemology. It was first published in English translation in 1959.\n\nThe philosopher Adolf Grünbaum argued in \"Philosophical Problems of Space and Time\" (1963) that Maritain presents an unsound and incorrect interpretation of the nature of geometry.\n\n"}
{"id": "58406527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58406527", "title": "The Philosopher's Zone", "text": "The Philosopher's Zone\n\nThe Philosopher's Zone is a weekly ABC Radio National radio discussion series exploring philosophical issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "32524316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32524316", "title": "Uhuru Movement", "text": "Uhuru Movement\n\nThe Uhuru Movement \"(Uhuru\" is the Swahili word for freedom.) is a socialist movement centered on the theory of African Internationalism, which provides a historical material explanation for the social and economic conditions of African people worldwide. The Movement has been led by the African People's Socialist Party (APSP) whose chairman is Joseph Waller. He founded the movement in 1972.\n\nThe APSP has formed several organizations, each with specific tasks and purpose. Affiliated organizations include The International People's Democratic Uhuru Movement (InPDUM), African Socialist International (ASI), UhuruNews.com, African People's Solidarity Committee (APSC), Uhuru Solidarity Movement (USM), Burning Spear Productions, Uhuru Foods, Uhuru Furniture, All African People's Development and Empowerment Project (AAPDEP), and African People's Education and Defense Foundation (APEDF).\n\nThe Uhuru Movement's political ideology is African Internationalism, which states that capitalism was born parasitic through the attack on Africa and its people. African Internationalism holds that capitalism is imperialism developed to its highest stage, not the other way around, as theorized by Vladimir Lenin.\n\nThis belief derives from Karl Marx's 1867 book \"\", in which Marx wrote of the condition essential to the emergence of capitalism which he called the \"primitive accumulation\" of capital. African Internationalism is not a static theory that only refers to past conditions, it refers also to the conditions that African people are faced with today. It refers to African people who live inside what it views as imperialist centers, such as the United States and Europe, as an \"internal colony\". The Movement has called for the release of all African American prisoners in U.S. prisons, described as \"concentration camps\", and has described U.S. police forces as an \"illegitimate standing army\". They have called for the withdrawal of police forces from exploited and oppressed African American communities.\n\nIn the 1990s, tensions between the police in St. Petersburg and the Uhuru Movement were high. Members of the Uhuru Movement frequently protested against the police's treatment of African Americans, usually after the murders of African Americans by police. On October 25th, 1996, violence erupted after a white police officer murdered a young black man driving a stolen car.Cars and buildings were torched, protestors shouted, and rocks, along with other items, were tossed at the police officers at the scene of the shooting. At least 20 protestors were arrested. The next day, a large group of Uhuru members went back to the scene and called for the release of the arrested protestors. Sobukwe Bambaata, one of the Uhuru members, stated that the rioting would have never occurred \"if the police did not come into our community and treat us like dogs.\"\n\nAlthough violence broke out in 1996, most of the protests organized by the movement remained peaceful. \n\nThe Uhuru Movement is a collective of organizations and institutions that were formed by the African People's Socialist Party. Each organization was created to deal with specific issues related to the conditions faced by African people under colonialism:\n\n\n\n\nThe Black Power Blueprint in St Louis, MO is a Black Community Economic Development project led by and for the Black working class in St Louis and Ferguson. It is a project of APEDF. It will result in a new Uhuru House African cultural center, One Africa, One Nation Marketplace, a community garden, and Uhuru Jiko Community Commercial Kitchen & Bakery Cafe and home of the Africans Independence Workforce Program. \n\n\nIn 2004, Uhuru Movement's leader Omali Yeshitela tore down a Halloween display in St. Petersburg which depicted \"a stuffed figure hung by the neck on a homemade gallows\". Subsequent opinions and letters to the \"St. Petersburg Times\" regarding the incident were critical of both the Uhuru Movement and Yeshitela's conduct.\n\nThe Uhuru Movement came to national attention during the 2008 Presidential campaign season when they interrupted Barack Obama at a town hall meeting in St. Petersburg, Florida, and questioned the candidate with the question, \"What about the black community?\" alleging that he was not speaking out for Africans on issues such as police brutality, high unemployment, predatory lending, and Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThe group was criticized by the Anti-Defamation League for engaging in demonstrations on January 3, 2009 in St. Petersburg, Florida which the ADL claims encouraged anti-Israel and anti-Zionist rallies.\n\nIn 2009, the International People's Democratic Uhuru Movement organized a march in support of Lovelle Mixon and against the Oakland Police. Mixon, an Oakland, California resident, had been accused of killing four Oakland police officers and died during a shootout after a traffic stop, coincidentally just blocks away from the local Uhuru headquarters. On the other hand, many black Oaklanders, as well as those belonging to other racial groups, seemed largely opposed to such sentiments, a clear majority of those who regularly campaign against abuses of police power also rejected any attempt to attach legitimacy to Mixon's murder rampage and Caroline Mixon, a cousin of Lovelle Mixon, paid a public tribute to the Oakland police, thanking them for serving and protecting the people of Oakland.\n\nAt the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany, the General Students' Committee (AStA) broke apart in April 2015 as a consequence of internal dispute over purported antisemitism after having organized an Information event about the Uhuru Movement on JGU campus in January. The AStA distanced itself both from the Uhuru Movement, African People's Socialist Party and its leader Omali Yeshitela stating that \"the struggle against racism and the consequences of colonialism should not blind us to other reactionary ideologies\" and regretted providing a platform for this movement. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48988094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48988094", "title": "Wall of kindness", "text": "Wall of kindness\n\nThe wall of kindness ( \"dīvār-e mehrabānī\"; \"Dewar e meherbani\") is a charity work phenomenon and a kind of welfare, usually done by attaching cloth hangers from outside of houses; those encourage people to donate miscellaneous useful things such as winter clothing. It was introduced by an anonymous Iranian, and the practice quickly spread throughout the country. The motto of the movement are two sentences which appear on the walls: \"leave if you do not need\" () and \"take [it] if you need\" ().\n\nInitially started for the homeless people of the Mashhad, Iran, the act serves a purpose to support the people in need. In response to social media, large numbers of people are taking part as a campaign and it has helped many homeless or otherwise destitute people during the cold winter weather.\nA similar initiative, but with open fridges, spread from Tehran to other cities. Bookshelves are also being added to the Walls of Kindness in order to donate books specially for poor children\n\nA wall of kindness was seen in Pakistan's Karachi on 15 January 2016 and another one in China's Liuzhou, located in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region on 29 January 2016. Also students of Marymount International School of Rome, in April 2016, have reproduced the idea by designating a wall with similar function and name. A wall of kindness was set up in Peshawar by Serve Mankind & Wadaan and afterwards it started Spreading all over Pakistan such as, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Sialkot, Quetta, Khuzdar and Karachi have witnessed similar walls where people are leaving clothes and other essential items for the poor.\nA new Wall of Kindness was recently witnessed in Amman/Jordan at the Landmark Amman Hotel on November 21st, 2017, which marked the first day of rain, inviting generous souls including children to donate clothes anonymously for the most in need ahead of the winter season. After donations are received, the laundry team at the hotel picks up the clothes, cleans them, irons them, wraps them up and hangs them back so they are available for the recipients, just like brand new items. @landmarkAmman\n\nSimilar walls known as \"Neki ki Deewar\" have sprung up in multiple cities across India such as Allahabad, Bhilwara, Jhalawar, Mysore, Chandigrah, Bhopal, Dehradun, Korba and Kolkata sometimes even having more supply than demand of clothes. The walls are also serving unexpected purpose of keeping walls clean and free from spitting. \n\nThe economy of Iran was hit when sanctions were imposed by the Western World. As the situation became worse, with an increasing number of unemployed, many could not afford clothes. Inflation caused particular difficulties for those in need. In the winter of 2015, young Iranians in Sajjad Boulevard in Mashhad came up with the idea. The main theme was to meet the demand for resources from charities. For the first time, a wall symbolizes unity rather than separation and the community has been asked to donate voluntarily. As soon as the attempt came to the attention of various social and mass media platforms, it was supported and praised by citizens as well as netizens.\n\nYoung Iranians took the chance to strengthen the bonds of community. The campaign went smoothly despite the risk of misuse and loss of resources. People were responsive and well aware of the fact that most vulnerable should get priority.\nWinter clothing disbursed among mass number of people as a welfare had been seen before, but still, the idea was innovative and showed much intelligence.\n\nThe sharing works of charity had a great impacts of religious point of view regarding Islamic country like Iran. Like in other religions, charitable work is considered a virtue in Islam, which has driven people to do more for humanity. Like in Iran, people in Pakistan are showing their humanity via this initiative.\n\n\nhttp://jordanembassyus.org/news/citizens-donate-clothes-anonymously-through-wall-kindness\n\nhttps://www.bing.com/images/search?view=detailV2&ccid=lOp744qA&id=2160D27FAA4F97074B88646C0D85A39C72A8606F&thid=OIP.lOp744qAaA7m5RKkxIWDiAHaEc&q=the+wall+of+kindness+amman&simid=608033290988096906&selectedIndex=0&ajaxhist=0\n"}
