{"id": "41567746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41567746", "title": "Abhiman Singh Rana Magar", "text": "Abhiman Singh Rana Magar\n\nAbhiman Singh Rana Magar (Nepali: अभिमान सिंह राना मगर) was an army general and Minister of Nepal until September 15, 1846, and the first victim of the Kot massacre of 1846. According to a government letter to then-British Resident, Major Lawrence in Kathmandu, 32 Bhardars (Nobles) were killed in the massacre catapulting Jung Bahadur, who later became Rana, to power.\n\nHistorians have written about Abhiman Singh Rana Magar from different angles: some saying that he was not very interested in becoming Prime Minister of the country. However, few others contesting otherwise have written the queen had favoured him also.\n\nNo records so far are available as to who his parents were, birthplace, childhood and education also. But it can be fairly said that he was a 'literate person' because his signatures can be found in the government papers jointly signed together with then Prime Ministers Bhimsen Thapa and Mathabar singh Thapa also.\n\nThe British Resident to Nepal Major Lawrence's letter, paragraph four, of August 26, 1845, to British Government clearly states that General Abhiman Singh Rana Magar was also a prime ministerial contender as the seat had fallen vacant since sometime already. But he seemed to be 'declining the dangerous office'. (Stiller 1981:285).\n\nIn another letter to his government on September 23, 1845, Resident Lawrence wrote, a council of minister was formed consisting of \"Chautaria Fatteh Jung and Kazis Gagan Singh, Abhiman Rana and Dalbhanjan Pandey\" . Minister Abhiman Singh Rana Magar, retaining his job in the army as general, had two regiments under him. He was Mulki Dewan, which would mean a minister responsible for home affairs: managing internal affairs east of Palpa.\n\nGeneral Gagan Singh Bhandari was mysteriously killed while he was worshipping some deity at his residence on September 14, 1846. The Queen Laxmi Devi ordered all \"Bhardars\" to report themselves to the Kot, at present day Hanuman Dhoka in Kathmandu. The furious Queen, as a wounded lioness, ordered out loud to bring in front of her and punish whoever might have killed General Gagan Singh. (\"The queen was addressing her agitation to the assemblage including Prime Minister Fatteh Jung Shah, Chautariya Dalmardan Shah and General Abhiman Singh Rana Magar\" ) Jung Bahadur's gesture toward Bir Kishore Pandey(a rival of Kazi Gagan Singh Bhandari) prompted the dangerously enraged Queen to order Abhiman Singh Rana to sever the former's head. The reason probably because, he was then interior minister - 'Mulki Dewan' of the country. But Abhiman Singh Rana Magar begged King's approval to execute the job. A heated debate followed and the situation turned so tense and dangerous, Abhiman Singh Rana Magar wanted to dash out. A sepoy at the gate blocked and bayoneted at his chest. The dying Abhiman Singh Rana Magar wrote a letter 'J' on the Kot wall with the blood gushing out of his chest suggestive of Jung Bahadur Rana being the culprit. In the government letter to the British resident in Kathmandu 32 Bhardars are listed as killed but the number should have been far more than stated.\n\nRana, B. K. 2003 : A Concise Magar History (संक्षिप्त मगर इतिहास - २०५९) : Raj Tribandhu, Pingansthan Kathmandu, Nepal.\n\nStiller, Ludwig F. 1981 : The Kot Massacre (Letter from Kathmandu): Nepal and Asian Studies, Tribhuvan University, Kirtipur.\n\nHistory Lessons Nepal: Absolution For His Brother's Sins\n"}
{"id": "875009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875009", "title": "Alan Abel", "text": "Alan Abel\n\nAlan Irwin Abel (August 2, 1924 – September 14, 2018) was an American hoaxer, writer, and mockumentary filmmaker famous for several hoaxes that became media circuses.\n\nBorn on August 2, 1924 in Zanesville, Ohio, Abel graduated from Ohio State University with a B.S. in Education. One of Abel's earliest pranks took place in the late 1950s. Abel posed as a golf pro who taught Westinghouse executives how to use ballet positions to improve their game.\n\nBeginning May 27, 1959, with a story on the \"Today Show\", the Society for Indecency to Naked Animals (SINA), was Abel's most elaborate hoax. SINA's mission was to clothe naked animals throughout the world. They are best known today for their tagline: \"A nude horse is a rude horse\". As spokesman for the group, Buck Henry appeared on television and radio several times, including the CBS Evening News on August 21, 1962. The hoax began as a satire of media censorship but took on a life of its own with sympathizers offering unsolicited contributions (always returned), citizen summonses for walking naked dogs, and sewing patterns for pet clothes.\n\nFrom 1966 to 1967 Abel wrote a weekly syndicated humor column \"The Private World of Prof. Bunker C. Hill\" that appeared in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" and several other newspapers\n\nFollowing the Watergate scandal, Abel hired an actor to pose as Deep Throat for a press conference in New York City before 150 reporters. Literary agent Scott Meredith offered $100,000 to buy the rights to his story. At the news conference the Deep Throat impostor quarreled with his purported wife, then fainted and was whisked away in a waiting ambulance.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Abel appeared on the game show \"To Tell the Truth\" with his head wrapped in bandages. This was not so that he would not be recognized, but so the panel would not identify his two imposters: well-known actors Larry Blyden and Tom Poston.\n\nAbel wrote, produced, and directed two mockumentaries: \"Is There Sex After Death?\" (1971) and \"The Faking of the President\" (1976).\n\nIn 1979, Abel staged his own death from a heart attack near the Sundance Ski Lodge. A fake funeral director collected his belongings and a woman posing as his widow notified \"The New York Times\". The Times published an obituary January 2, 1980 (a rare example of a premature obituary). On January 3, 1980, Abel held a news conference to announce that the \"reports of my demise have been grossly exaggerated\".\n\n\"Omar's School for Beggars\" was a fictional school for professional panhandlers. As Omar, Abel was invited to numerous television talk shows, including the \"Tomorrow Show\" hosted by Tom Snyder as well as Morton Downey, Jr., Sally Jessy Raphael, Mike Douglas and Sonya Friedman, who was especially upset because Omar ate his lunch on camera. The hoax was a satirical commentary on the rise of unemployment and homelessness in the U.S. Omar's TV appearances spanned the period from 1975 to 1988, even though he had been exposed several times.\n\nAbel was behind one of the most talked-about incidents in \"The Phil Donahue Show\"'s history on January 21, 1985, soon after the show's well-publicized move of its operations from Chicago to WNBC New York. On that day's program, seven members of the audience appeared to faint during the broadcast, which was seen live in New York. Donahue feared the fainting was caused by both anxiety at being on television and an overheated studio on a morning that was cold and snowy outside. He eventually cleared the studio of audience members and then resumed the show. It turned out the fainting \"spell\" was cooked up by Abel in what he said was a protest against poor-quality television.\n\nIn 1993, when euthanasia and Jack Kevorkian were common topics in the news, Abel set up the bogus Florida company \"Euthanasia Cruises, Ltd.\", which would offer cruises allowing suicidal participants to jump into the ocean after three days of partying. He revived this hoax in a column in 2006.\n\nIn 1997 Abel launched CGS Productions to promote gift-wrapped pint jars of Jenny McCarthy's urine. (A parody of McCarthy's role in a shoe commercial where she appeared sitting on a toilet.) The name of the communications director for CGS Productions was Stoidi Puekaw – \"wake up idiots\" backwards. \nAbel once ran for Congress on a platform that included paying congressmen based on commission; selling ambassadorships to the highest bidder; installing a lie detector in the White House and truth serum in the Senate drinking fountain; requiring all doctors to publish their medical school grade point average in the telephone book after their names; and removing Wednesday to establish a four-day workweek.\n\nIn 1999, Abel appeared in the documentary \"\", in which he claimed to be the current holder of the Guinness World Record for the smallest penis. Abel, who initially appeared in the video as \"Bruce the musician\" (later versions of the documentary would change this to reflect on Abel being a prankster), did not disrobe for the documentary crew and said that he would only do so if they were to have group sex afterwards. Abel stated that \"They said no. So I didn't have to take off my shorts.\"\n\nAt the 2000 Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, Abel introduced a campaign to ban all breastfeeding because \"it is an incestuous relationship between mother and baby that manifests an oral addiction leading youngsters to smoke, drink and even becoming anti-social.\" After 200 interviews over two years, Abel confessed the hoax in \"U.S. News & World Report\".\n\nAbel died on September 14, 2018 at his home in Southbury, Connecticut from complications of cancer and heart failure.\n\nIn 2004, his daughter Jenny Abel along with Jeff Hockett made a documentary film of Abel's life called \"Abel Raises Cain\", which played at the Boston Independent Film Festival and the 2005 Slamdance Film Festival where it won first prize for Best Documentary. It has been released on DVD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55218815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55218815", "title": "Ancient Greek funerary vases", "text": "Ancient Greek funerary vases\n\nAncient Greek funerary vases are decorative grave markers made in ancient Greece that were designed to resemble liquid-holding vessels. These decorated vases were placed on grave sites as a mark of elite status. There are many types of funerary vases, such as amphorae, kraters, oinochoe, and kylix cups, among others. One famous example is the Dipylon amphora. Every-day vases were often not painted, but wealthy Greeks could afford luxuriously painted ones. Funerary vases on male graves might have themes of military prowess, or athletics. However, allusions to death in Greek tragedies was a popular motif. Famous centers of vase styles include Corinth, Lakonia, Ionia, South Italy, and Athens. \n\nOne major type of funerary vase was the krater, a mixing bowl for wine and water used by elite Greek males at symposiums. Symposiums were an eastern influence in which the aristocracy would lie down and drink; many Greek painters referenced this lifestyle in their art. The krater was so symbolic of elite status that large, richly decorated kraters would be placed upon grave sites. Although in the shape of drinking vessels, some funerary kraters were made just to be a grave marker, as indicated by a hole in the bottom of the vessel. This hole would allow libations to drain through.\n\nThe display of highly decorated funeral vase markers, along with costly grave goods, and elaborate processions, helped to display the status of wealthy families. This act is called conspicuous consumption, and would let the whole community know who held power in the region. \n\nThe amphora was a tall, slender pot that often held oil, wine, milk, or grain. These could be as tall as an adult, and were both practical for transporting goods, and artistic in their funerary usage. Amphorae filled with oil were awarded to victorious athletes during Panathenaic games, with the winner painted on it. These might be placed on the grave of the athlete. \n\nThe Lekythos was another style of funerary vase that usually held ritual oil. It had a slender body with a single handle. One famous artist of lekythoi was the Achiles painter. Funeral lekythoi were often painted in the white ground technique. \n\nThe kylix (kylikes, plural), popular at symposiums, was a stout drinking cup with a very wide bowl. A well known potter of kylikes was Exekias. After being formed separately on the potter's wheel, the bowl and stem would be left to dry. The cup would then be placed upside down to attach the handles. The handles would dry in this upside down position, giving the handles a unique upturned curve when the kylix was upright.\n\nAn oinochoe was a stout wine jug with a distinct pouring lip, and a large handle. The name comes from oinos (wine), and cheo (to pour). Some of these have relief sculpture under the bowl. There are two other variations of oinochoe that differ in size and style, called olpe and chous.\n\nThe hydria was a water-containing vessel with three handles; two for carrying, and another for pouring. These could also be made out of bronze. A well preserved example is the Regina Vasorum from Southern Italy. The Regina Vasorum has black lacquer with gilding. Demeter, Athena, Artemis, Aphrodite, and Dionysus can all be seen on this hydria.\n\nGeometric patterns adorn many vases between 900-700 B.C. These patterns include meanders, right-angles, and swastikas. Most vases from this period were found in cemeteries, thus becoming our primary source of knowledge during the Geometric period. In the 600's B.C., Athens moved away from abstract geometric patterns, and toward more natural art, influenced by the Near East. \n\nImages from vases can provide information about religion, beliefs, and how people lived, including burial rites. Burial customs included washing and dressing the body in ointments before wrapping the body in a shroud and outer cloth. The body would then be laid upon a bier, or funeral bed, which gives form to the Greeks' association between sleep and death. \n\nThanatos, the god of gentle death, can be seen on Greek funerary vases taking away the body of the deceased to the underworld. The act of laying out the body for mourners to see, called prothesis, is painted on the Dipylon amphora. The next step was the ekphora; the moving of the body to a cemetery in a procession. If cremation was practiced, the ashes of the deceased would be placed inside the funeral vase, and buried. \n\nKylikes, used at symposiums, would often be painted with large eyes on them. When drinking from these eye-cups, they would act as a mask, like actors would wear in a play. These eyes would stare at the other guests, with the handles resembling ears. The Greek word for handle is \"ous\", meaning ear. The altered state of mind that comes from drinking alcohol is analogous to putting on the mask of someone else. This connection between wine, masks, and stories told at symposiums were all embodied in the god Dionysus, the god of wine and theater. \n\nGreek tragedies were a popular motif on funeral vases which often contained the death of someone close to the main character within the play. An example of this is the suicide of Ajax vase. Greeks would see these pictures of Greek tragedies on vases, which would remind them of the suffering that heroes of old had to endure. They believed that If great heroes were able to survive life's sufferings, then so could they. In this way, they could view tragedy as something comforting, thus giving people the strength to persevere. Through visual depictions of tragedies, the Greeks could relate to the deceased. Pots that depict funerary scenes were usually designed for tombs. However, vases with comical motifs have also been found in graves. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6342041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6342041", "title": "Antoine Danchin", "text": "Antoine Danchin\n\nAntoine Danchin (born 7 May 1944) is a French geneticist known for his research in several fields of biology, from the structure and function of adenylate cyclase, to modelisation of learning in the nervous system and the early development of genomics and bioinformatics. He is the Chairman of the startup AMAbiotics , specialised in metabolic bioremediation and synthetic biology . He was the director of the Department Genomes and Genetics at the Institut Pasteur in Paris where he headed the Genetics of Bacterial Genomes Unit.\nHe was trained as a mathematician at the Institut Henri Poincaré and a physicist at the École Normale Supérieure. Working first with Mildred Cohn, Marianne Grunberg-Manago and Ionel Solomon in Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Danchin became an experimental microbiologist in the early seventies.\nHe created with Philippe Courrège and Jean-Pierre Changeux at the Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique in Paris, France, a working seminar where they worked together on the construction of mathematical models of learning and memory.\nInterested in University training he created, with Maurice Guéron, the first semester of Biology at the École Polytechnique, and developed his teaching during four years. Among his first students one can find Daniel Kahn, Patrick Charnay, and many others. The main goal of his research has been to try to understand how genes can function collectively in the cell. This led him to work on regulation systems which control global gene expression in bacteria. Part of his work was devoted to the study of the enzymes that synthesize cyclic AMP. He established the reference classification of adenylate cyclases after his laboratory successfully cloned and sequenced the genes of adenylyl cyclase toxins from the whooping cough agent as well as from the agent of anthrax. This work led him to trigger ethical reflections on the practices of molecular genetics and genomics at a time when this was not considered important.\n\nDanchin started in 1985 a collaboration with computer scientists for evaluation of artificial intelligence techniques to the study of integrated problems in molecular genetics. This convinced him that it was time to investigate genomes as wholes, provided that an important effort in computer sciences was initiated in parallel (in silico biology). Early in 1987 he proposed that a sequencing program should be undertaken for Bacillus subtilis. This proposal was actualized by a European joint effort on this genome, starting in 1988. The complete sequence was published in 1997. The first significant and unexpected discovery of this work was, in 1991, that many genes (at the time, half of the genes) were of completely unknown function. This led him to try to organize bioinformatics in France with the help of several colleagues at universities, CNRS and INRIA, through the creation of a nationwide group, GDR 1029 (1991–1995) and subsequently through the coordination of the bioinformatics programme of the Groupement de Recherche et d'Etudes des Genomes (1992–1996), then at the Comité de Coordination des Sciences du Vivant (1998–2000). Re-sequencing and re-annotation of the B. subtilis genome was completed in 2009 to update the sequence and annotation of this reference genome.\n\nIn year 2000, Danchin created the HKU-Pasteur Research Centre in Hong Kong, meant to develop microbial genomics in the region, with the help of the Innovation and Technology Commission of the Hong Kong SAR government to develop bioinformatics (programme Biosupport).\n\nDanchin is now developing theoretical reflections and experiments in the domain of synthetic biology, trying to make explicit the idea that cells behave as computers (Turing machines) making computers. Together with Victor de Lorenzo he created the free and open access journal \"Symplectic Biology\", devoted to publishing innovative ideas in systems and synthetic biology \n\nAntoine Danchin is the father of Raphael Danchin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1376652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1376652", "title": "Archibald Butt", "text": "Archibald Butt\n\nArchibald Willingham DeGraffenreid Clarendon Butt (September 26, 1865 – April 15, 1912) was an American journalist and United States Army officer. After a short career as a newspaper reporter, he served two years as the First Secretary of the American embassy in Mexico. He was commissioned in the United States Volunteers in 1898 and served in the Quartermaster Corps during the Spanish–American War. He gained notice for his work in logistics and animal husbandry, and received a commission in the regular United States Army in 1901. After brief postings in Washington, D.C., and Cuba, he was appointed military aide to Presidents Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft. He died in the sinking of the .\n\nArchibald Butt was born in September 1865 in Augusta, Georgia, to Joshua Willingham Butt and Pamela Robertson Butt (née Boggs). His grandfather, Archibald Butt, served in the American Revolutionary War. His great-grandfather, Josiah Butt, was a lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army during the same conflict. He was the nephew of General William R. Boggs of the Confederate States Army (CSA). He had two older brothers (Edward and Lewis), a younger brother (John), and a sister (Clara), and the family was poor. Butt attended various local schools while growing up, including Summerville Academy. Butt's father died when he was 14 years old, and Butt went to work to support his mother, sister, and younger brother. Pamela Butt wished for her son to enter the clergy.\n\nWith the financial help of the Reverend Edwin G. Weed (who later became the Episcopal Bishop of Florida), Butt attended the University of the South in Sewanee, Tennessee. His mother worked as a librarian at the university, where she lived rent-free in an apartment in the library. While in college, he became interested in journalism and eventually was named editor of the college newspaper. Butt became acquainted with John Breckinridge Castleman, a former CSA major and guerrilla fighter during the American Civil War and who was, by 1883, Adjutant General of the Kentucky Militia. He joined the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, and graduated in 1888.\n\nAfter taking graduate level courses in Greek and Latin, Butt traveled to Louisville, Kentucky, to meet with Castleman. While in that city, he met Henry Watterson, founder of the \"Louisville Courier-Journal\". Watterson hired him as a reporter, and Butt remained in Louisville for three years. Butt left the \"Courier-Journal\" and worked for the \"Macon Telegraph\" for a year before moving to Washington, D.C. He covered national affairs for several Southern newspapers, including the \"Atlanta Constitution\", \"Augusta Chronicle\", \"Nashville Banner\", and \"Savannah Morning News\".\n\nButt was a popular figure in D.C. social circles, and made numerous important acquaintances during his time in the capital. When former Senator Matt Ransom was appointed United States Ambassador to Mexico in August 1895, he asked Butt to be the embassy's First Secretary. Butt wrote several articles for American magazines and published several novels while in Mexico. He returned to the United States in 1897 after Ransom's term as ambassador ended.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Spanish–American War in 1898, Butt was commissioned as a lieutenant in the United States Volunteers (an all-volunteer group which was not part of the regular United States Army but was under the regular Army's control). He had long admired the military, and no one in his immediate family was serving in the armed forces at the time the Spanish–American War broke out. Although Butt's literary career was taking off, his family's long involvement with the military and his desire to represent his family in the army during the war led him to enlist. Adjutant General of the U.S. Army Henry Clarke Corbin was influential in encouraging him to enlist.\n\nButt was assigned as an assistant quartermaster (i.e. a supply officer). He was ordered to take the transport ship \"Sumner\" through the Suez Canal and proceed to the Philippines. But he was eager to get into the war, and secured a change in orders that sent him from San Francisco, aboard the . Butt's new orders required him to stop in Hawaii with his cargo of 500 mules. But he found the price of feed and stables so high and the quarters for the animals so poor that he disobeyed orders and continued on to the Philippines. Although this risked the lives of his animals (and possible court-martial), none of the mules died en route and Butt was praised for his initiative. Butt remained in the Philippines until 1904, writing numerous treatises on the care of animals in the tropics and on military transportation and logistics. His reports won him significant praise by military officials.\n\nOn June 30, 1901, Butt was discharged from the Volunteers and received a commission as a captain in the Regular Army retroactive to February 2, 1901. Butt's social activities continued while he was in the Philippines. He was secretary of the Army and Navy Club, and had a major role in founding the Military Order of the Carabao (a tongue-in-cheek spoof of military fraternal organizations that still exists ).\n\nIn 1904, Butt was ordered to return to Washington, D.C., where he was appointed depot quartermaster. He was the lowest-ranking officer ever to hold this important position within the Quartermaster Corps. In 1906, when a revolution against Tomás Estrada Palma broke out in Cuba, Butt was hurriedly assigned to lead U.S. Army logistical operations there. On just two days' notice, he established a well-organized supply depot. He was named Depot Quartermaster in Havana.\n\nButt was recalled to Washington in March 1908. President Theodore Roosevelt asked him to serve as his military aide in April 1908—just a month after Butt's return to the United States. There were several reasons why Roosevelt chose Butt. Among them were that Roosevelt had become acquainted with Butt's organizational skills in the Philippines and was impressed by his hard work and thoughtfulness. The other was that Taft recommended Butt, whom he knew well from their time together overseas.\n\nButt became one of Roosevelt's closest companions. Although Butt was stout, he and Roosevelt were constantly going climbing, hiking, horseback riding, running, swimming, and playing tennis. Butt also quickly organized the chaotic White House receptions, transforming them from exhausting, hours-long events fraught with social missteps into efficient, orderly events.\n\nWhen William Howard Taft became president in March 1909, he asked Butt to stay on as military aide. Butt continued to serve as a social functionary for Taft, but he also proved to have strong negotiating skills and a good head for numbers, which enabled him to become Taft's \"de facto\" chief negotiator on federal budget issues. Butt accompanied President Taft when he threw out the first ball at the first home game of Major League Baseball's Washington Nationals in 1910 and 1911. Butt died at sea shortly before the season-opening game in 1912 and Taft, according to the \"Washington Post\", was overcome and \"could not be present for obvious reasons.\"\n\nOn March 3, 1911, Butt was promoted to the rank of major in the Quartermaster Corps, and later that year he became a member of the Georgia Society of the Cincinnati by right of his descent from his great-grandfather Lieutenant Robert Moseley, a veteran of the American Revolution. Butt was also a member of the Society of Colonial Wars and the Sons of the American Revolution.\n\nBy 1912, Taft's first term was coming to an end. Roosevelt, who had fallen out with Taft, was known to be considering a run for president against him. Close to both men and fiercely loyal, Butt began to suffer from depression and exhaustion. Butt's housemate and friend Francis Davis Millet (himself one of Taft's circle) asked Taft to give him a leave of absence to recuperate before the presidential primaries began. Taft agreed and ordered Butt to go on vacation. Butt was on no official business, but anti-Catholic newspapers and politicians accused Butt of being on a secret mission to win the support of Pope Pius X in the upcoming election. Butt did intend to meet with Pius, and he carried with him a personal letter from Taft. But the letter merely thanked the pope for elevating three Americans to the rank of cardinal, and asked what the social protocol was for greeting them at functions.\n\nButt left on a six-week vacation in Europe on March 1, 1912, accompanied by Millet. Butt booked passage on the RMS \"Titanic\" to return to the United States. He boarded the ship at Southampton, in England on April 10, 1912; Millet boarded the ship at Cherbourg, France, later that same day. Butt was playing cards on the night of April 14 in the first-class smoking room when the \"Titanic\" struck an iceberg. The ship sank two and a half hours later, with a loss of over 1,500 lives.\n\nButt's actions while the ship sank are largely unverified, but many accounts of a sensationalist nature were published by newspapers immediately after the disaster. One account had the ship's captain, Edward J. Smith, telling Butt that the ship was doomed, after which Butt began to act like a ship's officer and supervised the loading and lowering of lifeboats. The \"New York Times\" also claimed that Butt herded women and children into lifeboats. Another account said that Butt, a gun in his hand, prevented panicked male passengers from storming the lifeboats. Yet another version of events said Butt yanked a man out of one of the lifeboats so that a woman could board. In this story, Butt declared, \"Sorry, women will be attended to first or I'll break every damned bone in your body!\" One account tells of Butt preventing desperate steerage passengers from breaking into the first class areas in an attempt to escape the sinking ship. Walter Lord's book \"A Night to Remember\" disagrees with claims that Butt acted like an officer. Lord says Butt most likely observed the ship's evacuation quietly. Many newspapers repeated a story allegedly told by Marie Young. This tale says that Butt helped her into Lifeboat No. 8, tucked a blanket about her, and said, \"Goodbye, Miss Young. Luck is with you. Will you kindly remember me to all the folks back home?\" Young later wrote to President Taft denying she ever told such a story.\n\nEven Butt's final moments remain in dispute. Dr. Washington Dodge says he saw John Jacob Astor and Butt standing near the bridge as the ship went down. Dodge's account is highly unlikely, as his lifeboat was more than away from the ship at the time it sank. Other eyewitnesses say they saw him standing calmly on deck or standing side-by-side with Astor waving goodbye. Several accounts had Butt returning to the smoking room, where he stood quietly or resumed his card game. But these accounts have been disputed by author John Maxtone-Graham.\n\nButt died in Titanic's sinking; his body was never recovered.\n\nOn May 2, 1912, a memorial service was held in the Butt family home with 1,500 mourners, including President Taft, attending. Taft spoke at the service, saying:\nAt a second ceremony, held in Washington, D.C., on May 5, Taft broke down and wept, bringing his eulogy to an abrupt end.\n\nSeveral memorials to Butt were created over the years. A cenotaph was erected in the summer of 1913 in Section 3 of Arlington National Cemetery. Butt himself had selected the spot earlier. In October 1913, the Butt-Millet Memorial Fountain, named for Archibald Butt and Francis Millet, was dedicated near the White House on the Ellipse. In Augusta, Georgia, the Butt Memorial Bridge was dedicated in 1914 by Taft. The Washington National Cathedral contains a large plaque dedicated to Major Archibald Butt; it can be found on the wall in the museum store.\n\nSculptor Jorgen Dreyer was awarded a commission to create a sculpture to commemorate Butt. The commissioned piece, which Dreyer completed on 15 June 1912, was a bust of Butt situated on a base representing a ship on the ocean. The work was entitled \"The Message\".\n\nA government supply boat made of concrete was also named after Butt. It was one of nine experimental craft (all named for deceased members of the Quartermaster Corps) built by the Newport Shipbuilding Corporation in 1920 in New Bern, North Carolina. It was sold to an aquarium in Miami, Florida, in 1934 and was later sunk or scuttled in Biscayne Bay.\n\nDuring his time serving Roosevelt and Taft, Butt wrote almost daily letters to his sister Clara. These letters are a key source of information on the more private events of these two presidencies and provide insights into the respective characters of Roosevelt and Taft. Donald E. Wilkes Jr., professor of law at the University of Georgia School of Law, has concluded, \"All definitive biographies of Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft necessarily rely on information in Archie's letters.\" These letters (which overlap somewhat) have been published twice. The first collection, \"The Letters of Archie Butt, Personal Aide to President Roosevelt\", was issued in 1924. A second set of letters, \"Taft and Roosevelt: The Intimate Letters of Archie Butt, Military Aide\", was published in two volumes in 1930 after Taft's death.\n\nButt's letters are housed in the Georgia Department of Archives and History in Morrow, Georgia, with a microfilm set also residing at Emory University in Atlanta.\n\nButt lived in a large mansion at 2000 G Street NW with the painter Francis Davis Millet, who also died in the sinking of the \"Titanic\". \"Millet, my artist friend who lives with me\" was Butt's designation for his companion. They were known for throwing spartan but large parties that were attended by members of Congress, justices of the Supreme Court, and President Taft himself.\n\nA wide range of reasons were given why Butt never seemed interested in women. Chief among these was that Butt loved his own mother so much that there was little room for anyone else. Even Taft thought this explanation was true. At the time of Butt's death, rumors swirled that he was about to lose his lifelong bachelor status. News accounts said he had a teenage mistress who either was carrying their unborn child or who had already given birth to a baby, or that Butt was engaged to a Colorado woman. None of these rumors were true.\n\nSome speculation exists that Butt was a homosexual. Historian Carl Sferrazza Anthony has written that Taft's explanation only \"vaguely addressed\" the real reason Butt failed to marry. Davenport-Hines, however, believes Butt and Millet were gay lovers. He wrote in 2012:\nHistorian James Gifford tentatively agrees. He points out that there is clear documentary evidence that Millet had at least one homosexual affair previously in his life (with the American writer Charles Warren Stoddard). But any conclusion, Gifford says, must remain tentative:\nMillet's body was recovered after the sinking and was buried in Bridgewater, Massachusetts.\n\n\nButt appears and plays a significant role in Jack Finney's time travel novel, \"From Time to Time\". In this novel, Butt is sent to Europe by President Taft and former President Roosevelt in an effort to stave off World War I. In Europe, he apparently gets the necessary assurances to make a European war impossible. However, even when informed of the ship's approaching sinking by the time traveling protagonist, he refuses to save himself and his mission when women and children will perish. His mission fails with his death.\n\nJames Walker's 1998 novel, \"Murder on the Titanic\", includes Butt as a minor character.\n\nMichael Bockman's 2012 novel, \"The Titanic Plan\", features Archibald Butt as the major character in a historical-based novel involving leading industrialists and banking magnates of the day, and their plan to establish an illegal national commerce monopoly that would yield massive power and political influence to a few super-wealthy men.\n\nButt appears in the 2014 novel \"The Great Abraham Lincoln Pocket Watch Conspiracy\" by Jacopo della Quercia, where he is depicted as President Taft's closest friend and companion aboard a fictitious presidential dirigible \"Airship One\", which Butt pilots. The book uses period newspaper articles to report Butt's promotion from captain to major and even makes use of his letters to his sister Clara. Butt plays a major role in the story. His death is depicted as a climactic showdown between the United States and King Leopold II of Belgium aboard the \"Titanic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "434188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434188", "title": "Bioremediation", "text": "Bioremediation\n\nBioremediation is a process used to treat contaminated media, including water, soil and subsurface material, by altering environmental conditions to stimulate growth of microorganisms and degrade the target pollutants. In many cases, bioremediation is less expensive and more sustainable than other remediation alternatives. Biological treatment is a similar approach used to treat wastes including wastewater, industrial waste and solid waste.\n\nMost bioremediation processes involves oxidation-reduction reactions where either an electron acceptor (commonly oxygen) is added to stimulate oxidation of a reduced pollutant (e.g. hydrocarbons) or an electron donor (commonly an organic substrate) is added to reduce oxidized pollutants (nitrate, perchlorate, oxidized metals, chlorinated solvents, explosives and propellants). In both these approaches, additional nutrients, vitamins, minerals, and pH buffers may be added to optimize conditions for the microorganisms. In some cases, specialized microbial cultures are added (bioaugmentation) to further enhance biodegradation. Some examples of bioremediation related technologies are phytoremediation, mycoremediation, bioventing, bioleaching, landfarming, bioreactor, composting, bioaugmentation, rhizofiltration, and biostimulation.mir 88\n\nMost bioremediation processes involve oxidation-reduction (Redox) reactions where a chemical species donates an electron (electron donor) to a different species that accepts the electron (electron acceptor). During this process, the electron donor is said to be oxidized while the electron acceptor is reduced. Common electron acceptors in bioremediation processes include oxygen, nitrate, manganese (III and IV), iron (III), sulfate, carbon dioxide and some pollutants (chlorinated solvents, explosives, oxidized metals, and radionuclides). Electron donors include sugars, fats, alcohols, natural organic material, fuel hydrocarbons and a variety of reduced organic pollutants. The redox potential for common biotransformation reactions is shown in the table. \nAerobic bioremediation is the most common form of oxidative bioremediation process where oxygen is provided as the electron acceptor for oxidation of petroleum, polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), phenols, and other reduced pollutants. Oxygen is generally the preferred electron acceptor because of the higher energy yield and because oxygen is required for some enzyme systems to initiate the degradation process. Numerous laboratory and field studies have shown that microorganisms can degrade a wide variety of hydrocarbons, including components of gasoline, kerosene, diesel, and jet fuel. Under ideal conditions, the biodegradation rates of the low- to moderate-weight aliphatic, alicyclic, and aromatic compounds can be very high. As the molecular weight of the compound increases, so does the resistance to biodegradation.\n\nCommon approaches for providing oxygen above the water table include landfarming, composting and bioventing. During landfarming, contaminated soils, sediments, or sludges are incorporated into the soil surface and periodically turned over (tilled) using conventional agricultural equipment to aerate the mixture. Composting accelerates pollutant biodegradation by mixing the waste to be treated with a bulking agent, forming into piles, and periodically mixed to increase oxygen transfer. Bioventing is a process that increases the oxygen or air flow into the unsaturated zone of the soil which increases the rate of natural in situ degradation of the targeted hydrocarbon contaminant.\n\nApproaches for oxygen addition below the water table include recirculating aerated water through the treatment zone, addition of pure oxygen or peroxides, and air sparging. Recirculation systems typically consist of a combination of injection wells or galleries and one or more recovery wells where the extracted groundwater is treated, oxygenated, amended with nutrients and reinjected. However, the amount of oxygen that can be provided by this method is limited by the low solubility of oxygen in water (8 to 10 mg/L for water in equilibrium with air at typical temperatures). Greater amounts of oxygen can be provided by contacting the water with pure oxygen or addition of hydrogen peroxide (HO) to the water. In some cases, slurries of solid calcium or magnesium peroxide are injected under pressure through soil borings. These solid peroxides react with water releasing HO which then decomposes releasing oxygen. Air sparging involves the injection of air under pressure below the water table. The air injection pressure must be great enough to overcome the hydrostatic pressure of the water and resistance to air flow through the soil.\n\nAnaerobic bioremediation can be employed to treat a broad range of oxidized contaminants including chlorinated ethenes (PCE, TCE, DCE, VC), chlorinated ethanes (TCA, DCA), chloromethanes (CT, CF), chlorinated cyclic hydrocarbons, various energetics (e.g., perchlorate, RDX, TNT), and nitrate. This process involves the addition of an electron donor to: 1) deplete background electron acceptors including oxygen, nitrate, oxidized iron and manganese and sulfate; and 2) stimulate the biological and/or chemical reduction of the oxidized pollutants. Hexavalent chromium (Cr[VI]) and uranium (U[VI]) can be reduced to less mobile and/or less toxic forms (e.g., Cr[III], U[IV]). Similarly, reduction of sulfate to sulfide (sulfidogenesis) can be used to precipitate certain metals (e.g., zinc, cadmium). The choice of substrate and the method of injection depend on the contaminant type and distribution in the aquifer, hydrogeology, and remediation objectives. Substrate can be added using conventional well installations, by direct-push technology, or by excavation and backfill such as permeable reactive barriers (PRB) or biowalls. Slow-release products composed of edible oils or solid substrates tend to stay in place for an extended treatment period. Soluble substrates or soluble fermentation products of slow-release substrates can potentially migrate via advection and diffusion, providing broader but shorter-lived treatment zones. The added organic substrates are first fermented to hydrogen (H) and volatile fatty acids (VFAs). The VFAs, including acetate, lactate, propionate and butyrate, provide carbon and energy for bacterial metabolism.\n\nHeavy metals including cadmium, chromium, lead and uranium are elements so they cannot be biodegraded. However, bioremediation processes can potentially be used to reduce the mobility of these material in the subsurface, reducing the potential for human and environmental exposure. The mobility of certain metals including chromium (Cr) and uranium (U) varies depending on the oxidation state of the material.  Microorganisms can be used to reduce the toxicity and mobility of chromium by reducing hexavalent chromium, Cr(VI) to trivalent Cr (III).  Uranium can be reduced from the more mobile U(VI) oxidation state to the less mobile U(IV) oxidation state.  Microorganisms are used in this process because the reduction rate of these metals is often slow unless catalyzed by microbial interactions Research is also underway to develop methods to remove metals from water by enhancing the sorption of the metal to cell walls.  This approach has been evaluated for treatment of cadmium , chromium, and lead .\n\nIn the event of biostimulation, adding nutrients that are limited to make the environment more suitable for bioremediation, nutrients such as nitrogen, phosphorus, oxygen, and carbon may be added to the system to improve effectiveness of the treatment.\n\nMany biological processes are sensitive to pH and function most efficiently in near neutral conditions. Low pH can interfere with pH homeostasis or increase the solubility of toxic metals. Microorganisms can expend cellular energy to maintain homeostasis or cytoplasmic conditions may change in response to external changes in pH. Some anaerobes have adapted to low pH conditions through alterations in carbon and electron flow, cellular morphology, membrane structure, and protein synthesis.\n\nBioremediation can be used to completely mineralize organic pollutants, to partially transform the pollutants, or alter their mobility. Heavy metals and radionuclides are elements that cannot be biodegraded, but can be bio-transformed to less mobile forms. In some cases, microbes do not fully mineralize the pollutant, potentially producing a more toxic compound. For example, under anaerobic conditions, the reductive dehalogenation of TCE may produce dichloroethylene (DCE) and vinyl chloride (VC), which are suspected or known carcinogens. However, the microorganism \"Dehalococcoides\" can further reduce DCE and VC to the non-toxic product ethene. Additional research is required to develop methods to ensure that the products from biodegradation are less persistent and less toxic than the original contaminant. Thus, the metabolic and chemical pathways of the microorganisms of interest must be known. In addition, knowing these pathways will help develop new technologies that can deal with sites that have uneven distributions of a mixture of contaminants.\n\nAlso, for biodegradation to occur, there must be a microbial population with the metabolic capacity to degrade the pollutant, an environment with the right growing conditions for the microbes, and the right amount of nutrients and contaminants. The biological processes used by these microbes are highly specific, therefore, many environmental factors must be taken into account and regulated as well. Thus, bioremediation processes must be specifically made in accordance to the conditions at the contaminated site. Also, because many factors are interdependent, small-scale tests are usually performed before carrying out the procedure at the contaminated site. However, it can be difficult to extrapolate the results from the small-scale test studies into big field operations. In many cases, bioremediation takes more time than other alternatives such as land filling and incineration.\n\nThe use of genetic engineering to create organisms specifically designed for bioremediation is under preliminary research. Two category of genes can be inserted in the organism: degradative genes which encode proteins required for the degradation of pollutants, and reporter genes that are able to monitor pollution levels. Numerous members of \"Pseudomonas\" have also been modified with the lux gene, but for the detection of the polyaromatic hydrocarbon naphthalene. A field test for the release of the modified organism has been successful on a moderately large scale.\n\nThere are concerns surrounding release and containment of genetically modified organisms into the environment due to the potential of horizontal gene transfer. Genetically modified organisms are classified and controlled under the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976 under United States Environmental Protection Agency. Measures have been created to address these concerns. Organisms can be modified such that they can only survive and grow under specific sets of environmental conditions. In addition, the tracking of modified organisms can be made easier with the insertion of bioluminescence genes for visual identification.\n\n"}
{"id": "705783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705783", "title": "Black ribbon", "text": "Black ribbon\n\nA black ribbon is a symbol of remembrance or mourning. Wearing or displaying a black ribbon has been used for POW/MIA remembrance, mourning tragedies, or as a political statement.\n\nSimilar to a black armband, the black ribbon is a public display of grief. Individuals or organizations display the ribbon in commemoration of victims after specific incidents. Some examples have included:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15856089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15856089", "title": "Boki (Hawaiian chief)", "text": "Boki (Hawaiian chief)\n\nBoki (sometimes Poki, born Kamāuleule) (before 1785–after December 1829) was a High Chief in the ancient Hawaiian tradition and served the Kingdom of Hawaii as royal governor of the island of Oahu. Boki ran a mercantile and shipping business and encouraged the Hawaiians to gather sandalwood for trade.\n\nBoki was the son of Kekuamanoha and Kamakahukilani. His father was a chief of Maui and grandson of Kekaulike, King of Maui. He was a younger brother of William Pitt Kalanimoku, but it was rumored that he was a son of Kahekili II. His original name was Kamāuleule (\"The one who faints\") and his nickname came from a variation of \"Boss\", the name of Kamehameha I's favorite dog which was a very common name for dogs in Hawaii at the time.\n\nBoki was appointed Royal Governor of Oahu and chief of the Waianae District by Kamehameha I, and continued in his post under Kamehameha I's son Kamehameha II.\n\nBoki and his wife Kuini Liliha (1802—1839) were leading members of a delegation to England led by King Kamehameha II and Queen Kamamalu in 1824. After the monarchs died from measles during the stay, Boki and his wife returned to Hawaii with Admiral Lord Byron aboard the British frigate, , which bore the bodies of the late king and queen. En route, the ship stopped at Brazil and obtained several Arabica coffee trees, which Boki gave to ex-West Indies settler and agriculturalist John Wilkinson, to plant on the Chief's land in Oahu's Mānoa Valley. Wilkinson was never able to cultivate the strain for commercial production. He also transplanted South American native turkeys to Hawai'i and Rotuma, along with the Hawaiian transliteration of the Portuguese name for turkey, \"peru\" (\"pelehu\" in Hawaiian, \"perehu\" in Rotuman).\n\nEmboldened by the voyage, Boki sought to trade on the fame it gave him. He moved a wood frame house inland and opened a store and inn called the Blonde Hotel. He became unpopular with local missionaries because he sold liquor there. He stocked his bar with cheap but bad wine, saying it was good enough for visiting sailors. Like his other business ventures, it was not profitable to himself, but perhaps was to his employees. One of them claimed the building in the 1830s, calling it the \"Boki House\".\n\nBoki agreed to the breaking of the kapu (the ancient system of strict rules) in 1819 and accepted the Protestant missionaries arriving in 1820. He had been baptized as a Catholic, along with his brother Kalanimoku, the previous year aboard the French vessel of Louis de Freycinet. Although he was one of the first chiefs to be baptized, when he married Liliha, he refused to marry her in church and, despite his conversion, was known to enjoy partaking of \"sinful\" and \"immoral\" treats, such as drinking okolehao (liquor made from ti root).\n\nQueen regent Kaahumanu had become influenced by the Protestant missionaries in Honolulu and was baptized into the Congregational church. Heeding the advice of her Congregationalist ministers, Kaahumanu influenced King Kamehameha III to ban the Roman Catholic Church from the islands. Boki and Liliha were a constant threat to Kaahumanu and her hold on the boy-king and when she learned that they were among the first chiefs to convert to the Hawaii Catholic Church it angered her, since she wanted all the chiefs to accept Protestantism, an example she hoped all Hawaiians would follow. Torn in conflicting directions, the young king under the influence of Boki turned to alcohol in what was portrayed as a clear rejection of the either Christian standards of morality.\n\nAfter restrictions on sandalwood trading placed by Kamehameha I lapsed, Boki immersed himself in the business. He grew rich, like many other chiefs, but the chiefs' lack of understanding of financial concepts caused him to become deeply indebted by 1829. When word reached him that New Hebrides, a faraway group of South Pacific islands, was heavily forested in sandalwood, he pulled together a fleet of two ships and set sail. It is known that he reached Rotuma in 1827 and also called at Erromango. However, when he failed to return to Hawaii it was assumed that he had perished at sea.\n\nDespite the Hawaiian belief that he died during his sandalwood expedition, there is evidence that Boki was alive and well in Samoa in the year 1830. According to Marques' 1893 report, Boki's ship was wrecked in 1830 near Iva on the Samoan island of Savaii where he rallied under the banner of the ambitious Samoan chief, Malietoa Vaiinupo. The Hawaiian embassy delegation sent to Samoa by King Kalakaua in 1886 learned that the two Prussian cannons from Boki's ships were indeed still to be found in Iva village along with \"many of his descendants\".\n\nBefore departing, Boki entrusted administration of Oahu to his wife and, subsequently, widow, Liliha who was made chiefess of Waianae and governor of Oahu, until she tried to overthrow Kaahumanu. Her father Hoapili talked her out of it at the last minute, but she was, nevertheless, relieved of her duties. After Kaahumanu died in 1832, Liliha was described as no longer observant of the missionary rules.\n\n"}
{"id": "7152876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7152876", "title": "Bolero (horse)", "text": "Bolero (horse)\n\nBolero (1975–1986) was a dressage horse and an influential sire. He stood .\n\nBolero was by the English Thoroughbred stallion Black Sky, who was imported to Germany in 1972. Black Sky was a grandson of the great stallion Djebel, who also sired the very influential My Babu, a stallion seen in many show jumpers osdand hunters pedigrees in the United States. Black Sky stood at the private stud farm of Schmidt-Ankum, and his offspring were generally talented dressage horses with good rideability, but with very little jumping talent.\n\nBolero's dam, Baroness, was registered with the Hanoverian Verband. She was half-Thoroughbred through her sire, the large-framed stallion Bleep. Her dam's side includes Hyperion, who in turn traces to Bay Ronald. The dam-sire of Baroness was the stallion Athos, who was known as a broodmare sire of dressage horses, and her damline (Athos-Fliegerstern) also produced the stallions Grenadier, Hitchcock, and Winner.\n\nThis breeding combination of a Thoroughbred stallion to a mare that was by a Thoroughbred was prohibited by the Hanoverian studbook at the time, due to the belief that the offspring would be unsuccessful.\n\nPedigree for Bolero<br>\n1975 Chestnut colt\n\nBolero did only moderately well at his 100-day stallion test held at Adelheidsdorf, placing 6th out of 30 stallions with a final score of 111. He stood at Landesbrück from 1979 until his death of a heart attack at the age of 12. He only stood for 9 seasons, making his impact on the breeding of Hanoverians even more spectacular.\n\nDespite the relatively short breeding career, Bolero was remarkably influential on the breeding of dressage horses, although like his father, his offspring are generally poor jumpers. His high degree of Thoroughbred blood brought an elegance to his progeny, and this trend toward a lighter dressage horse has been on the rise since he stood at stud. He consistently produced offspring with good shoulders and toplines, as well as elastic and rhythmic gaits.\n\nBolero was the founding sire of a new B-Line in the 1990s, and produced the stallion Brentano II, who also became a foundation stallion for this line. Bolero was found to be most successful with daughters of Grande and Duellant. Breeders continue to cross the B-Line with the G- and D- lines to produce successful dressage horses, as well as those by Argus.\n\nThe stallion sired 47 licensed stallions during his time at stud, the most important being Brentano I and II, Buenos Aires, Bismark, and Beltain. As a well-known sire of sires, Bolero sons have been exported around the world. Bolero has also made a name for himself as a sire of broodmares, producing 317 mares that went on to be registered, 96 of whom earned the status of State Premium. The great success of his mares gave him a dressage ranking of 139 (against a rather poor 57 for jumping).\n\nBolero began with 5 sons attending the Verden licensing, of which 4 were selected. His offspring, known as the \"Bolero Boom,\" continue to make their mark on the dressage scene. As of 2000, there were 412 Bolero offspring competing, with winnings of DM1,282,504. Three of his descendants medaled at the 2004 Olympics in Athens: Brentina, Bonaparte, and Beauvalais.\n\n"}
{"id": "251456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251456", "title": "Brights movement", "text": "Brights movement\n\nThe Brights Movement is an international intellectual movement, whose members refer to themselves as Brights and hold a naturalist worldview.\n\nMost Brights believe that public policies should be based on science (a body of knowledge obtained and tested by use of the scientific method). Brights are likely to oppose the practice of basing public policies on supernatural doctrines. Brights may therefore be described as secularists.\n\nThe most politically active Brights frequently and openly advocate scientocracy, the practice of basing public policies on science. They look forward to living in an era when the best available scientific evidence provides a foundation for the humane and compassionate operation of human societies.\n\nThe Bright movement has proposed the following terminology:\n\nPaul Geisert, who coined the term bright and co-founded the bright movement is a one-time Chicago biology teacher, professor, entrepreneur and writer of learning materials. In deciding to attend the Godless Americans March on Washington in 2002, Geisert disliked the label \"godless\" as he saw it as synonymous with evil, he thought this would alienate the public. He sought a new, positive word that might become well-accepted and improve the image of those who did not believe in the supernatural, in the same way that the term \"gay\" did. A few weeks later, Geisert came up with the noun \"bright\" after brainstorming lots of ideas. He then ran into another room and told his wife: \"I've got the word, and this is going to be big!\".\n\nIt was also co-founded by his wife, Mynga Futrell. Futrell and Geisert remain co-directors of the organization to this day.\n\nAfter coming up with the term they pitched their idea to friends and decided to unveil their idea at an Atheist Alliance International conference in Tampa, Florida. They called the organizers and got permission to present the idea.\n\nGeisert and Futrell made their proposal in Spring 2003 at an atheist conference in Florida which was attended by Richard Dawkins. They launched the Brights' Net website on June 4, 2003. The movement gained early publicity through articles by Richard Dawkins in \"The Guardian\" and \"Wired\"; and by Daniel Dennett in \"The New York Times\".\n\nThe movement continued to grow and experienced accelerated registrations following media debate around New Atheism prompted by a series of book releases in late 2006 including \"The God Delusion\", \"\", \"God Is Not Great\", \"The End of Faith\" and \"Letter to a Christian Nation\". The movement has grown to be a constituency of over 78,000 Brights in 204 nations and territories. \n\nMany, but not all, brights also identify as atheist, antitheist, humanist (specifically secular humanist), freethinker, Objectivist, irreligionist, naturalist, materialist or physicalist, agnostic, skeptic, or even naturalistic pantheist. Even so, the \"movement is not associated with any defined beliefs\". The website Brights' Net says its goal is to include the umbrella term bright in the vocabulary of this existing \"community of reason\".\n\nHowever, \"the broader intent is inclusive of the many-varied persons whose worldview is naturalistic\", but are in the \"general population\" as opposed to associating solely with the \"community of reason\". Thus, persons who can declare their naturalistic worldview using the term bright extend beyond the familiar secularist categories as long as they do not hold theistic worldviews. Registrations even include some members of the clergy, such as Presbyterian ministers and a Church History Professor and ordained priest.\n\nDawkins compares the coining of bright to the \"triumph of consciousness-raising\" from the term gay:\nGay is succinct, uplifting, positive: an \"up\" word, where homosexual is a down word, and queer, faggot and pooftah are insults. Those of us who subscribe to no religion; those of us whose view of the universe is natural rather than supernatural; those of us who rejoice in the real and scorn the false comfort of the unreal, we need a word of our own, a word like \"gay\"[,] [...] a noun hijacked from an adjective, with its original meaning changed but not too much. Like gay, it should be catchy: a potentially prolific meme. Like gay, it should be positive, warm, cheerful, bright.\n\nDespite the explicit difference between the noun and adjective, there have been comments on the comparison. In his \"Wired\" article, Dawkins stated: \"Whether there is a statistical tendency for brights [noun] to be bright [adjective] is a matter for research\".\n\nNotable people who have self-identified as brights at one time or another include: biologists Richard Dawkins and Richard J. Roberts; cognitive scientist Steven Pinker; philosophers Daniel Dennett and Massimo Pigliucci; stage magicians and debunkers James Randi and Penn & Teller; Amy Alkon; Sheldon Lee Glashow; Babu Gogineni; Edwin Kagin; Mel Lipman; Piergiorgio Odifreddi; and Air America Radio talk show host Lionel.\n\nDaniel Dennett, in his book \"\", suggests that if non-naturalists are concerned with connotations of the word bright, then they should invent an equally positive sounding word for themselves, like supers (i.e. one whose world view contains supernaturalism). He also suggested this during his presentation at the Atheist Alliance International '07 convention. Geisert and Futrell maintain that the neologism has always had a kinship with the Enlightenment, an era which celebrated the possibilities of science and a certain amount of free inquiry. They have endorsed the use of super as the antonym to bright, although this term makes the assumption that anyone not a bright necessarily subscribes to notions of supernaturalism.\n\nThe Brights' avatar represents a celestial body viewed from space. As there is no up or down or right or left in outer space, the arrangement of planet and darkness and starlight is changeable. Although the symbol is open to the viewer's interpretation, it is generally meant to invoke transition and a sense of gradual illumination. The intentional ambiguity of the avatar is meant to symbolically reflect an important question: Is the future of humankind becoming luminous or more dim? The Brights aspire \"to take the promising route, whereby the imagery brings to mind a gradually increasing illumination for this earth of ours, an escalation of enlightenment\". This optimistic interpretation of the Brights' symbol is summarized by the motto \"Embrightenment Now!\".\n\nThe movement has been criticised by some (both religious and non-religious) who have objected to the adoption of the title \"bright\" because they believe it suggests that the individuals with a naturalistic worldview are more intelligent (\"brighter\") than non-naturalists, such as philosophical skeptics or idealists, believers in the paranormal, philosophical theists, or the religious. For example, the Committee for Skeptical Inquiry published an article by Chris Mooney titled \"Not Too 'Bright in which he stated that although he agreed with the movement, Richard Dawkins's and Daniel Dennett's \"campaign to rename religious unbelievers 'brights' could use some rethinking\" because of the possibility that the term would be misinterpreted. The journalist and noted atheist Christopher Hitchens likewise found it a \"cringe-making proposal that atheists should conceitedly nominate themselves to be called 'brights.\n\nIn response to this, Daniel Dennett has stated:\n"}
{"id": "6755699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6755699", "title": "Cass Daley", "text": "Cass Daley\n\nCass Daley (born Catherine Dailey; July 17, 1915 – March 22, 1975) was an American radio, television and film actress, singer, and comedian. The daughter of an Irish streetcar conductor, Daley started to perform at night clubs and on the radio as a band vocalist in the 1940s.\n\nDaley began singing as a child in front of neighborhood storefronts. Noted for her buck teeth and comical singing style, she sang at clubs as a teen while working as a hat-check girl and electrician.\n\nIn the 1930s, she began a stage career, including a role in a production advertised as a \"Great Vaudeville Show\" in 1934. She appeared in the 1936-1937 Ziegfeld Follies featured as the \"Cyclone of Syncopation.\"\n\nIn the 1940s, Daley embarked on a movie career, most notably in \"The Fleet's In\" (1942) with Dorothy Lamour and Betty Hutton and \"Crazy House\" (1943) with Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson. She also starred opposite Dick Powell and Dorothy Lamour in \"Riding High\" in 1943, and opposite Eddie Bracken and Diana Lynn in \"Out of This World\" in 1945. She had a part in \"Red Garters\" opposite Rosemary Clooney in 1954, and her last movie appearances were in \"The Spirit Is Willing\" in 1967 and in \"Norwood\" in 1970.\n\nIn 1944-1945, she was a regular on \"The Frank Morgan Show\" on NBC radio. As a frequent radio guest, she appeared semi-regularly in 1944 on \"The Bob Burns Show\" on NBC. She was also a very popular singer with the troops overseas during World War II, and appeared many times on Armed Forces Radio Service (AFRS) broadcasts such as Command Performance and Mail Call. In 1945, she joined the cast of \"The Fitch Bandwagon\", another popular radio show. In 1950, she starred in her own radio show \"The Cass Daley Show\".\n\nDaley recorded several singles with Hoagy Carmichael. \"The Old Piano Roll Blues\" peaked at #11 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and stayed on the chart for ten weeks in 1950, and \"Aba Daba Honeymoon\" peaked at #23 in 1951, and charted for three weeks.\n\nShe recorded a version of \"Put the Blame on Mame\" in 1946, and it sold 150,000 copies in just two months.\n\nWith radio in decline, she retired to raise her son in Newport Beach. After her divorce from husband Frank Kinsella, she attempted a comeback in the 1970s appearing in small television, film and stage roles. She was among the stars in the 1972 nostalgia revue \"Big Show of 1928\", which toured the country and played New York's Madison Square Garden.\n\nOn March 22, 1975, alone in her apartment, the 59-year-old comedian apparently fell and landed on her glass-top coffee table. A shard of glass jammed into her throat and she bledout before her husband came home and discovered her. For her contribution to the television and radio industry, Cass Daley has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6303 Hollywood Blvd. Cass Daley is buried next to a tree along the roadside in the north end of Section 8 (the new Garden of Legends), at Hollywood Forever Cemetery in Hollywood, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "27656091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27656091", "title": "Charles D. Tandy", "text": "Charles D. Tandy\n\nCharles David Tandy (15 May 1918 – 4 November 1978) was the Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of the Tandy Corporation.\n\nCharles Tandy was born in Brownsville, Texas to Dave L. Tandy, who ran the Hinckley-Tandy Leather Company with his friend Norton Hinckley. He was educated at the R. L. Paschal High School.\n\nTandy entered his father's business at the age of 12. In 1940 he graduated from Texas Christian University. He then spent some time at the Harvard Business School before joining the US Navy for the remainder of World War II. While in the Navy he set a record for selling war bonds. While a supply officer in the Navy, he noticed sailors being taught knitting and needlepoint as part of recuperative therapy. Thinking that men would prefer leatherwork to needlework, he established a system of craft work for hospitalized service personnel. Its success led him, on leaving the Navy, to set up a mail order business, Tandycraft, that became a major part of his father's business.\n\nTandy developed his small family leather business into an international corporation. He first turned it into a leather craft company when shoe rationing in World War II almost killed the business, and later expanded into selling leather and tools to make such products as wallets. After a struggle over the company, which saw the Hinckley name dropped, the company was renamed to Tandy Corporation. In 1963, Tandy acquired the ailing RadioShack, a chain of nine retail stores in the Boston area; the chain grew to more than 400 across the country.\n\nIn Tandy's last years his major project was the revitalization of downtown Fort Worth, his hometown e.g. the construction of the eight‐block Tandy Center.\n\nTandy died of a heart attack in his sleep, on 4 November 1978.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49733889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49733889", "title": "CitMHS family", "text": "CitMHS family\n\nThe Citrate-Mg:H (CitM) / Citrate-Ca:H (CitH) Symporter (CitMHS) Family (TC# 2.A.11) is a family of transport proteins belonging to the Ion transporter superfamily. Members of this family are found in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, archaea and possibly eukaryotes. These proteins all probably arose by an internal gene duplication event. Lensbouer & Doyle (2010) have reviewed these systems, classifying the porters with three superfamilies, according to ion-preference:\n\n1) Mg-preferring,\n\n2) Ca-preferring, and\n\n3) Fe-preferring.\n\nA representative list of proteins belonging to the CitMHS family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nTwo of the characterized members of the CitMHS family, both citrate uptake permeases from \"Bacillus subtilis\", are CitM (TC# 2.A.11.1.1) and CitH (TC# 2.A.11.1.2)\".\"\n\nCitM is believed to transport a citrate-Mgcomplex in symport with one H per Mg-citrate while CitH apparently transports a citrate-Ca complex in symport with protons. The cation specificity of CitM is: Mg, Mn, Ba, Ni, Co, Ca and Zn, in this preferential order. CitM is highly specific for citrate and D-isocitrate and does not transport other di- and tri-carboxylates including succinate, L-isocitrate, cis-aconitate and tricarballylate. For CitH, the cation specificity (in order of preference) is: Ca, Ba and Sr. The two proteins are 60% identical, contain about 400 amino acyl residues and possess twelve putative transmembrane spanners. A CitM homologue in \"S. mutans\" transports citrate conjugated to Fe or Mn but not Ca, Mg or Ni.\n\nThe transport reactions catalyzed by (1) CitM and (2) CitH, respectively, are:\n\n"}
{"id": "9583985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9583985", "title": "Committee machine", "text": "Committee machine\n\nA committee machine is a type of artificial neural network using a divide and conquer strategy in which the responses of multiple neural networks (experts) are combined into a single response. The combined response of the committee machine is supposed to be superior to those of its constituent experts. Compare with ensembles of classifiers.\n\nIn this class of committee machines, the responses of several predictors (experts) are combined by means of a mechanism that does not involve the input signal, hence the designation static. This category includes the following methods:\nIn ensemble averaging, outputs of different predictors are linearly combined to produce an overall output.\nIn boosting, a weak algorithm is converted into one that achieves arbitrarily high accuracy.\n\nIn this second class of committee machines, the input signal is directly involved in actuating the mechanism that integrates the outputs of the individual experts into an overall output, hence the designation dynamic. There are two kinds of dynamic structures:\nIn mixture of experts, the individual responses of the experts are non-linearly combined by means of a single gating network.\nIn hierarchical mixture of experts, the individual responses of the individual experts are non-linearly combined by means of several gating networks arranged in a hierarchical fashion.\n"}
{"id": "27386117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27386117", "title": "Computational Materials Science", "text": "Computational Materials Science\n\nComputational Materials Science is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Elsevier. It was established in October 1992. The editor-in-chief is Susan Sinnott. The journal covers computational modeling and practical research for advanced materials and their applications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.292.\n"}
{"id": "2980973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2980973", "title": "Culling", "text": "Culling\n\nIn biology, culling is the process of segregating organisms from a group according to desired or undesired characteristics. In animal breeding, culling is the process of removing or segregating animals from a breeding stock based on specific trait. This is done to exaggerate desirable characteristics, or to remove undesirable characteristics by altering the genetic diversity of the population. For livestock and wildlife, culling often refers to the act of killing removed animals. In fruits and vegetables, culling is the sorting or segregation of fresh harvested produce into marketable lots, with the non-marketable lots being discarded or diverted into food processing or non-food processing activities. This usually happens at collection centres located at, or close to farms. Culling is sometimes used as a term to describe indiscriminate killing within one particular species which can be due to a range of reasons, for example, badger culling in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe word comes from the Latin \"colligere\", which means \"to collect\". The term can be applied broadly to mean sorting a collection into two groups: one that will be kept and one that will be rejected. The cull is the set of items rejected during the selection process. The culling process is repeated until the selected group is of proper size and consistency desired.\n\nIn the breeding of pedigreed animals, both desirable and undesirable traits are considered when choosing which animals to retain for breeding and which to place as pets. The process of culling starts with examination of the conformation standard of the animal and will often include additional qualities such as health, robustness, temperament, color preference, etc. The breeder takes all things into consideration when envisioning his/her ideal for the breed or goal of their breeding program. From that vision, selections are made as to which animals, when bred, have the best chance of producing the ideal for the breed.\n\nBreeders of pedigreed animals cull based on many criteria. The first culling criterion should always be health and robustness. Secondary to health, temperament and conformation of the animal should be considered. The filtering process ends with the breeder's personal preferences on pattern, color, etc.\n\nThe Tandem Method is a form of selective breeding where a breeder addresses one characteristic of the animal at a time, thus selecting only animals that measure above a certain threshold for that particular trait while keeping other traits constant. Once that level of quality in the single trait is achieved, the breeder will focus on a second trait and cull based on that quality.\nWith the tandem method, a minimum level of quality is set for important characteristics that the breeder wishes to remain constant. The breeder is focussing improvement in one particular trait without losing quality of the others. The breeder will raise the threshold for selection on this trait with each successive generation of progeny, thus ensuring improvement in this single characteristic of his breeding program.\n\nFor example, a breeder that is pleased with the muzzle length, muzzle shape, and eye placement in the breeding stock, but wishes to improve the eye shape of progeny produced may determine a minimum level of improvement in eye shape required for progeny to be returned into the breeding program. Progeny is first evaluated on the existing quality thresholds in place for muzzle length, muzzle shape, and eye placement with the additional criterion being improvement in eye shape. Any animal that does not meet this level of improvement in the eye shape while maintaining the other qualities is culled from the breeding program; i.e., that animal is not used for breeding, but is instead spayed/neutered and placed in a pet home.\n\nIndependent levels is a method where any animal who falls below a given standard in any single characteristic is not used in a breeding program. With each successive mating, the threshold culling criteria is raised thus improving the breed with each successive generation.\n\nThis method measures several characteristics at once. Should progeny fall below the desired quality in any one characteristic being measured, it will not be used in the breeding program regardless of the level of excellence of other traits. With each successive generation of progeny, the minimum quality of each characteristic is raised thus ensuring improvement of these traits.\n\nFor example, a breeder has a view of what the minimum requirements for muzzle length, muzzle shape, eye placement, and eye shape she is breeding toward. The breeder will determine what the minimum acceptable quality for each of these traits will be for progeny to be folded back into her breeding program. Any animal that fails to meet the quality threshold for any one of these criteria is culled from the breeding program.\n\nThe Total Score Method is a method where the breeder evaluates and selects breeding stock based on a weighted table of characteristics. The breeder selects qualities that are most important to them and assigns them a weight. The weights of all the traits should add up to 100. When evaluating an individual for selection, the breeder measures the traits on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the most desirable expression and 1 being the lowest. The scores are then multiplied by their weights and then added together to give a total score. Individuals that fail to meet a threshold are culled (or removed) from the breeding program. The total score gives a breeder a way to evaluate multiple traits on an animal at the same time.\n\nThe total score method is the most flexible of the three. it allows for weighted improvement of multiple characteristics. It allows the breeder to make major gains in one aspect while moderate or lesser gains in others.\n\nFor example, a breeder is willing to make a smaller improvement in muzzle length and muzzle shape in order to have a moderate gain in improvement of eye placement and a more dramatic improvement in eye shape. Suppose the breeder determines that she would like to see 40% improvement in eye shape, 30% improvement in eye placement, and 15% improvement in both muzzle length and shape. The breeder would evaluate these characteristics on a scale of 1 to 10 and multiply by the weights. The formula would look something like: 15 (muzzle length) + 15(muzzle shape) + 30(eye placement) + 40(eye shape) = total score for that animal. The breeder determines the lowest acceptable total score for an animal to be folded back into their breeding program. Animals that do not meet this minimum total score are culled from the breeding program.\n\nSince livestock is bred for the production of meat or milk, the herd must be culled to a certain number of production or meat animals a farmer wishes to maintain. Animals not selected to remain for breeding are sent to the slaughter house, sold, or killed.\n\nCriteria for culling livestock and production animals can be based on population or production (milk or egg). In a domestic or farming situation the culling process involves selection and the selling of surplus stock. The selection may be done to improve breeding stock, for example for improved production of eggs or milk, or simply to control the group's population for the benefit of the environment and other species. In order to increase the frequency of preferred phenotypes, agricultural practices typically involve using the most productive animals as breeding stock.\n\nWith dairy cattle, culling may be practised by inseminating inferior cows with beef breed semen and by selling the produced offspring for meat production.\n\nWith poultry, males which would grow up to be roosters have little use in an industrial egg-producing facility. Approximately half of the newly hatched chicks will be male and would grow up to be roosters, which do not lay eggs. For this reason, the hatchlings are culled based on gender. Most of the male chicks are usually killed shortly after hatching.\n\nIn the United States, hunting licenses and hunting seasons are a means by which the population of game animals is maintained. Each season, a hunter is allowed to kill a certain amount of wild game. The amount is determined both by species and gender. If the population seems to have surplus females, hunters are allowed to take more females during that hunting season. If the population is below what is desired, hunters may not be permitted to hunt that particular game animal or only hunt a restricted number of males.\n\nPopulations of game animals such as elk may be informally culled if they begin to excessively eat winter food set out for domestic cattle herds. In such instances the rancher will inform hunters that they may \"hunt the haystack\" on his property in order to thin the wild herd to controllable levels. These efforts are aimed to counter excessive depletion of the intended \"domestic\" winter feed supplies. Other managed culling instances involve extended issuance of extra hunting licenses, or the inclusion of additional \"special hunting seasons\" during harsh winters or overpopulation periods, governed by state fish and game Agencies.\n\nCulling for population control is common in wildlife management, particularly on African game farms and in Australia in national parks. In the case of very large animals such as elephants, adults are often targeted. Their orphaned young, easily captured and transported, are then relocated. Culling is controversial in many African countries, but reintroduction of the practice has been recommended in recent years for use at the Kruger National Park in South Africa, which has experienced a swell in its elephant population since culling was banned in 1995.\n\nCulling acts as a strong selection force and can therefore impact the population genetics of a species. For example, culling based on specific traits, such as size, can enforce directional selection and remove those traits from the population. This can have long-term effects on the genetic diversity of a population.\n\nAdditionally, culling can act as a selection force intentionally implemented by humans to counteract the selection force of trophy hunting. Hunting typically enforces selection towards unfavorable phenotypic traits because of the strong hunting bias for specific traits, such as large antler size. Culling “low-quality” traits can counteract this force.\n\nSome bird species are culled when their populations impact upon human property, business or recreational activity, disturb or modify habitats or otherwise impact species of conservation concern. Cormorants are culled in many countries due to their impact on commercial and recreational fisheries and habitat modification for nesting and guano deposition. They are culled by shooting and the smothering of eggs with oil. Another example is the culling of silver gulls in order to protect the chicks of the vulnerable banded stilt at ephemeral inland salt lake breeding sites in South Australia. The gulls were culled using bread laced with a narcotic substance. In the Australian states of Tasmania and South Australia, Cape Barren geese are culled to limit damage to crops and the fouling of waterholes. Cape Barren Geese remain one of the rarest geese in the world, though much of their habitat is now regarded as secure.\n\nIn South Australia, the recovery of the state's native population of New Zealand fur seals (\"Arctocephalus forsteri\") after severe depletion by sealers in the 1800s has brought them into conflict with the fishing industry. This has prompted members of Parliament to call for seal culling in South Australia. The State Government continues to resist the pressure and as of July 2015, the animals remain protected as listed Marine Mammals under the state's \"National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972\".\n\n\"Main article: Shark culling\"\n\nShark culling currently occurs in four locations: New South Wales, Queensland, KwaZulu-Natal and Réunion. Between 1950 and 2008, 352 tiger sharks and 577 great white sharks were killed in the nets in New South Wales — also during this period, a total of 15,135 marine animals were caught and killed in the nets, including whales, turtles, rays, dolphins, and dugongs. From 2001 to 2018, a total of 10,480 sharks were killed on lethal drum lines in Queensland. In a 30-year period, more than 33,000 sharks have been killed in KwaZulu-Natal's shark-killing program — during the same 30-year period, 2,211 turtles, 8,448 rays, and 2,310 dolphins were killed. Authorities on Réunion kill about 100 sharks per year. All of these culls have been criticized by environmentalists, who say killing sharks harms the marine ecosystem.\n\nIn 2014, a controversial policy was introduced by the Western Australian state government which became known as the Western Australian shark cull. Baited hooks known as drum lines were to be set over several consecutive summers to catch and kill otherwise protected great white sharks. The policy's objective was to protect users of the marine environment from fatal shark attack. Thousands of people protested against its implementation, claiming that it was indiscriminate, inhumane and worked against scientific advice the government had previously received. Seasonal setting of drum lines was abandoned in September 2014 after the program failed to catch any great white sharks, instead catching 172 other elasmobranchii, mostly tiger sharks.\n\nWhite-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) have been becoming an issue in suburbs across the United States of America due to large population increases. This is thought to be caused mainly by the extirpation of most of their major predators in these areas. In response to these population booms, different management approaches have been taken to decrease their numbers mainly in the form of culls. Culls of deer are often partnered with exclusions with fencing and also administering contraceptives.\n\nThe effectiveness of these deer culls has been debated and often criticized as only a temporary fix to the larger problem of deer overpopulation and argue that the use of culling will increase fertility of remaining deer by reducing competition. Those in favor of the culls argue that they can be used to combat the selection pressure that is imposed by hunting that creates smaller antler and body sizes in deer. People in favor of the culls recommend that they not be random and actively select for smaller individuals and bucks with smaller antlers, specifically “button bucks” or bucks with only spiked antler in their first year as opposed to forked antlers.\n\nCulling of deer can also have benefits in the form of disease prevention and in places that the white-tailed deer is an invasive species such as New Zealand culling of deer has added benefits for native species. Diseases are density dependent factors and decreases in the density of the deer populations through culling causes diseases, such as Chronic wasting disease and lyme disease, to spread less quickly and effectively.\n\nMany zoos participate in an international breeding program to maintain a genetically viable population and prevent inbreeding. Animals that can no longer contribute to the breeding program are considered less desirable and are often replaced by more desirable individuals. If an animal is surplus to a zoo's requirements and a place in another zoo can not be found, the animal may be killed. In 2014, the culling of a young, healthy giraffe Marius raised an international public controversy.\n\nZoos sometimes consider female animals to be more desirable than males. One reason for this is that while individual males can contribute to the birth of many young in a short period of time, females give birth to only a few young and are pregnant for a relatively long period of time. This makes it possible to keep many females with just one or two males, but not the reverse. Another reason is that the birth of some animal species increases public interest in the zoo.\n\nThe Animal law of Germany, Tierschutzgesetz, orders that zoo animals cannot be culled without verification by official veterinary institutes of the Landkreis or federated state. In the U.K., there is no general prohibition on euthanasia and this is allowed when overcrowding compromises the well-being of the animals.\n\nJaak Panksepp, one of America’s leading neuroscientists, concludes that both animals and humans have brains wired to feel emotions, and that animals have the capacity to experience pleasure and happiness from their lives. For this reason, there are those who believe that culling animals is morally wrong.\n\nSome argue that culling is necessary when biodiversity is threatened. However, the protection of biodiversity argument has been questioned by some animal rights advocates who point out that the animal which most greatly threatens and damages biodiversity is humanity, so if we are not willing to cull our own species we cannot morally justify culling another. There is a growing movement to reinstate eugenics practices in the human population, but the issue is hotly contested.\n\nThere exist nonlethal alternatives which may still be considered culling, and serve the same purpose of reducing population numbers and selecting for desired traits without killing existing members of the population. These methods include the use of wildlife contraceptives and reproductive inhibitors. By using such methods population numbers might be reduced more gradually and in a potentially more humane fashion than by directly lethal culling actions.\n\nWildlife contraceptives are largely in the experimental phase as of this writing. These include such products as Gonacon, an adjuvant vaccine which delivers a high dosage of a competitor ligand of the hormone GnRH to female mammals (e.g. whitetail deer). The complex formed of GnRH and the Gonacon molecule promotes production of antibodies against the animal’s own GnRH, which themselves complex with GnRH. This encourages an extended duration of the drug’s effects (namely, reduction of active/unbound GnRH in the animal’s system). Though the endocrinology behind Gonacon is sound, the need for multiple lifetime doses for full efficacy make it a less-guaranteed and less-permanent solution for wildlife than lethal culls. Even among domestic animals in controlled conditions, Gonacon cannot ensure 100% reduction in the occurrence of pregnancies.\n\nReproductive inhibitors need not act on the parental individuals directly, instead damaging reproductive processes and/or developing offspring to reduce the number of viable offspring per mating pair. One such compound called Nicarbazin has been formulated into bait for consumption by Canada Geese, and damages egg yolk formation to reduce the viability of clutches without harming the adult geese.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20622140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20622140", "title": "Deer–vehicle collisions", "text": "Deer–vehicle collisions\n\nA deer-vehicle collision occurs when one or more deer and a human-operated vehicle collide on a roadway. It can result in deer fatality, property damage, and human injury or death. The number of accidents, injuries, and fatalities varies from year to year and region. In the United States an estimated 1.23 million deer related accidents occurred in a one-year period ending June 2012 (a 7.7 percent increase from the previous year), resulting in $3,305 in average property damage. The largest proportion of such accidents occur in November.\n\nIn 2000, of the 6.1 million lightweight motor vehicle collisions in the US, 1 million involved animal-vehicle collisions. Deer–vehicle collisions lead to about 200 human deaths and $1.1 billion in property damage every year. State and federal governments, insurance companies, and drivers spend an additional $3 billion in an effort to reduce and manage the increasing number of deer-vehicle collisions. The term \"deer-vehicle collision\" is commonly annotated throughout safety agencies as DVC.\n\nIn Canada during the year 2000 there were nearly 29,000 animal-vehicle collisions resulting in property damage only, an additional 1,887 involving non-fatal injuries, and 23 fatal collisions.\n\nIn Germany over 220,000 traffic collisions occur annually involving deer, over 1000 of which lead to human injuries and around 20 to human fatalities.\n\nDeer–vehicle collisions have occurred since roadways have been built in close and direct proximity to direct habitat, also known as deer habitat fragmentation. White-tailed deer, the most common deer involved in deer-vehicle collisions, have steadily increased in numbers since the turn of the 20th century. Currently, it is estimated that 20 to 30 million deer populate North America. The actual number of animals killed in deer-vehicle collisions is not known because no such database exists. In 1981 study, it was concluded that \"large animals,\" which included deer, accounted for 26% of animals killed each year in collisions with vehicles on interstates and country roads.\n\nThe expansion and technological advances of roadways in the US have increased the number of deer-vehicle collisions. The increased amount of habitat fragmentation, due to expanding technology, has increased the likelihood of a deer-vehicle collision.\n\nIn the United States, the state with the highest number of deer-vehicle collisions is Pennsylvania, with an estimated 115,000 collisions in 2013 causing $400 million in damage. West Virginia is the state with the highest risk that a motorist will hit a deer whilst driving.\n\nThe main contributing factor of a deer-vehicle collision has been contested among studies and statistics. Many factors are yet to be identified or understood. At this point, a main factor in all deer-vehicle collisions has not been concluded, but the most argued is the proximity of roadways to deer-populated forestry. Significant factors also include: urban population and deer density. Also, studies have shown that, nationally, most deer vehicle collisions occur between May and November because of deer mating season and foraging before the winter months.\n\nHabitat fragmentation occurs when human technology encroaches upon the natural habitats of animals. As human beings live in closer proximity to animals they are more likely to encounter one another. The most common type of habitat fragmentation across the United States is roadways and highways in forests and other deer-inhabited areas. Because highways are isolated points of fragmentation, deer wander about them freely because they see little to stay away from. Roadways and highways located in sparsely-populated areas are usually built along rivers and lakes of mountains and plains. These areas attract deer because they render safe havens and excellent foraging. Roadways and highways within densely populated deer habitat lead to more prevalent deer-vehicle collisions.\n\nA contributing factor to deer-vehicle collisions, as preventable as it is prevalent, is the time of day at which motorists travel through deer habitation. During the daytime, motorists can more easily see and avoid hitting deer. At night, most especially during the dusk and dawn hours, deer are much harder to see, and therefore harder to avoid hitting.\n\nThe US Government does not sanction any specific manufacturer that may reduce or monitor deer-vehicle collisions. The investigation and implication of deer-vehicle collision prevention methods remains a responsibility of state governments. Such products are usually heavily tested and studied before being endorsed by them. State organizations such as the departments of transportation or game and fisheries usually handle the investigation of deer-vehicle collision prevention methods and products. State wildlife agencies have much concern for the preservation of deer and other wildlife that become involved in vehicle collisions due to roadway expansion and development.\n\nThe deer whistle is the most widely studied and scrutinized form of deer-vehicle collision prevention method. Deer whistles are products that attach to a vehicle and act as an alarm system for deer and other wildlife. The manufacturing of deer whistle products has emerged into a multimillion-dollar industry. Their manufacturers advertise that ultrasound, which they say deer can hear but humans cannot is emitted as air passes through the whistle. The deer hearing range is 115 Hz - 54 kHz. Most deer whistles are about 2 inches long and are bullet shaped. They cost between $5 and $25 and are designed to be attached to the bumper of a vehicle. When a vehicle moves faster than 35 mph, a whistle sound is induced which is believed to ward off animals from a roadway. The deer whistle is marketed to prevent deer-vehicle collisions. The effectiveness of deer whistles is disputed among agencies because of the conflicting reports available. The study and documentation of deer whistles is generally poor, and a conclusive decision about the effectiveness of the deer whistle cannot be made.\n\nSome research has been published about the function and capability of deer whistles. Some manufacturers claim that deer can hear the whistle up to a quarter-mile away, but no research has solidified that claim. Another point of concern is that the amount of noise from a vehicle may compromise the clarity of the deer whistle. Because the whistle is vehicle-mounted there is little that can be done about mitigating vehicle noise. Others also argue the whistle’s location on the vehicle as being susceptible to dirt and insects which would eventually clog the passageway of the whistle, rendering it useless. The idea of a non-air-activated whistle has been discussed, but little research has been done on the effectiveness of such products. Deer whistles generally have a questionable level of effectiveness but are advertised as aiding in the prevention of DVCs. A concern among studies is the impact the whistle has on the psyche of the driver, and the driver’s sense of security.\n\nDeer see slightly differently than do humans. Deer color vision is based upon two types of cones which sense the shorter and middle wavelengths of light. This is called dichromatic vision. Deer, and most game animals, have light sensitivity in the approximate range of below 320 nm to 640 nm. This means that they cannot see red or green, but can see UV (ultraviolet). Thus, what appears to humans to be a very bright, blazing orange is seen as possibly a grey/dull yellow by deer. Conversely, a deer’s ability to see light at higher frequencies means they can see UV-blue light that is virtually invisible to humans, possibly better than humans see blazing orange.\n\nThe ability to see in the UV spectrum truly sets deer and animal vision apart from humans. UV light is generally damaging to eyes, particularly in the long term. Hence, a pigmentation is present in human eyes that helps filter out UV light. Deer have no such filter and see well in the UV spectrum. UV light – invisible to humans – can literally glow to deer.\n\nIt is theorized that UV lights or strobes mounted on autos might reduce the rate of collisions and concomitant loss of life. This should also reduce the rate of bird collisions with wind turbines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4053139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4053139", "title": "Duppy", "text": "Duppy\n\nDuppy is a word of African origin commonly used in Jamaica meaning ghost or spirit. It is both singular and plural. Much of Caribbean folklore revolves around duppy. Duppy are generally regarded as malevolent spirits. They are said to mostly come out and haunt people at night, and people from around the islands claim to have seen them. The \"Rolling Calf\" (a scary creature said to have chains around its body), \"Three footed horse\", and \"Old Higue\" are examples of the more malicious spirits.\n\nIn many of the islands of the Lesser Antilles, duppy are known as \"jumbies\". Barbados also uses the word duppy and it holds the same meaning as it does in Jamaica.\n\nOriginating in Central Africa, the duppy is part of Bantu folklore. A duppy can be either the manifestation (in human or animal form) of the soul of a dead person, or a malevolent supernatural being. But the word duppy more likely originates from the Ga language as most of the African folklore and culture in Jamaica comes from the Ashanti people(a similar Kwa speaking people also from Ghana). In the Ga language of Ghana, \"Adope\" literally means dwarf but in Ghanaian folklore spirits are dwarves. In Obeah, a person is believed to possess two souls — a good soul and an earthly soul. In death, the good soul goes to heaven to be judged by God, while the earthly spirit remains for three days in the coffin with the body, where it may escape if proper precautions are not taken, and appear as a duppy.\n\nThe term \"duppy\" has been featured in various musical works from the Caribbean. According to Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, after Bob Marley wrote the song \"My Cup\", Marley was complaining to Lee that he was too \"successful\" and was being plagued by hangers-on and leeches, referring to them as duppy in the context of \"human vampires\" (or scroungers). Lee apparently consoled him by saying, \"Look, we'll sort this out — we are duppy conquerors.\" Marley then wrote \"Duppy Conqueror\". The term \"duppy\" is also referenced in the song \"Mr. Brown\".\n\nSeveral other Jamaican artists have recorded songs that refer to duppy, including Bunny Wailer's \"Duppy Gun\", and Ernie Smith's \"Duppy Gun-Man\". Yellowman released an album titled \"Duppy or Gunman\". There was also a drum & bass single written by the duo Chase & Status called \"Duppy Man\" featuring Capleton's vocals from his track \"Slew Dem\". In 2008, Jamaican dancehall artist Demarco had a hit with the single \"Duppy Know Who Fi Frighten\" on the well-known \"Shoot Out\" riddim. Most recently, dancehall phenomenon Vybz Kartel released \"Touch a Button Nuh\" which mentions a duppy in the interlude. Collie Buddz sings about \"duppy\" in his song \"Sensimillia\". Roots Manuva refers to a duppy possessing him in \"Witness (One Hope)\", and released an album entitled \"Duppy Writer\" in 2010. Drake, a prominent hip-hop figure, made the song “Duppy Freestyle” in 2018.\n\nA High Wind in Jamaica (1929) by Richard Hughes makes several references to duppy.\n\nIn Avram Davidson's 1961 short story \"Where do you live, Queen Esther\", an old Caribbean domestic worker in New York (the \"Queen Esther\" of the title) keeps a tiny dried frog tied with a scarlet ribbon in a cigarette tin. The frog turns out to be a duppy, which comes to terrifying life when an unpleasant employer takes the liberty of looking uninvited through the servant's possessions.\n\nThe James Bond thriller \"Live and Let Die\" by Ian Fleming mentions duppy and the rolling calf in the chapter \"The Undertaker's Wind\".\n\nThe protagonist of the novel \"Brown Girl in the Ring\" by Nalo Hopkinson is an Obeah-woman in training, learning from her grandmother. She uses her abilities to defeat an evil Obeah-man and his duppy.\n\nIn another Nalo Hopkinson book, \"Midnight Robber,\" \"Duppy Dead Town is where people go when life boof them, when hope left them and happiness cut she eye 'pon them and strut away.\"\n\nThe term \"duppy\" is used in Neil Gaiman's 2005 novel, \"Anansi Boys\", in which it appears to refer to any ghost.\n\nIn Sherwood Smith's novel \"Revenant Eve\", the main character is sent back in time as a duppy, here regarded as a sort of guardian spirit, to a distant ancestor.\n\nIn Peter Matthiessen's novel \"Far Tortuga\", the character, Wodie, tells his fellow turtle hunters that he has never seen a duppy, which is odd because, he tells them, \"...I born with a caul...\" - a membrane covering a newborn's head and face, a condition occurring in fewer than one in 80,00 births.\n\nThe term \"duppy\" was featured on the television show \"Amazing Stories\" in episode 13, entitled \"The Sitter\". In this episode, a duppy is discussed between a Caribbean woman and the two boys she has been hired to babysit. She tells the boys about the duppy in order to prevent them from acting mischievously.\n\nIn the television film \"The Stone Tape\", the interior of a room in an old mansion inexplicably records the final moments of people who died there, replaying their last sounds and images and leading many people to believe it haunted. During World War II, the house is used by American soldiers. Years later, a woman who lived near the house recalls being told by an African American soldier that the house had \"duppy\". Not having heard the term before or knowing what it meant, she thinks he might have said \"guppies\".\n\nIn the Syfy television series, \"Lost Girl\", the episode \"Adventures in Fae-bysitting\" features a babysitter named Lisa who is a duppy. She is a ghost that can only be invoked every 100 years, using a special necklace. When invoked, she is essentially an empty vessel alive only through her invoker's life energy to carry out murders for them.\n\nIn Episode 4 of Season 4 of the HBO series \"Boardwalk Empire\", Doctor Valentin Narcisse talks to Dunn Purnsley about how \"duppy\" is used in the Caribbean to refer to a person of African descent \"who sucks his blood from his people.\"\n\nCommon enemies in the Acclaim video game \"Shadow Man\" (available for Nintendo 64, Sony PlayStation, Sega Dreamcast, and PC) are called duppy. They appear as cadaverous humanoid creatures that attack at close range with their claws and from a distance by vomiting projectiles of green goo.\n\n"}
{"id": "32175426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32175426", "title": "Eberhardt Otto George von Bock", "text": "Eberhardt Otto George von Bock\n\nBaron Eberhardt Otto George von Bock (died 21 January 1814) was a Hanoverian born major-general in the British army during the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nBock was descended from an old military family, and entered the Hanoverian cavalry about the year 1781. His name appears as a premier-lieutenant in the 6th Hanoverian dragoons in 1789, and as rittmeister (captain) in 1800. He served in the Hanoverian Garde du Corps under Freytag in the Flanders Campaign and was slightly wounded by two sabre cuts on the arm and head at the Battle of Famars 23 May 1793.\n\nOn the dissolution of the Hanoverian army after the convention of Lauenburg, Bock was one of the officers who travelled to England, where he raised four troops of heavy cavalry, designated as the 1st dragoons, King's German Legion, and was gazetted colonel 21 April 1804. The regiment was formed at Weymouth, and was a particular favourite of George III. Bock served at its head in Lord Cathcart's expedition to Hanover in 1805; also in Ireland, whither it was sent after its return home. From Ireland Bock, who had attained the rank of major-general in 1810, proceeded to the Peninsular War in 1811 in command of a brigade composed of the two heavy cavalry regiments of the Legion, with which he made the subsequent campaigns in Spain and the south of France in 1812-13. The steadiness and gallantry of Bock's heavy Germans often won approval, particularly on 23 July 1812, the day after the victory at Salamanca, when in a charge at Garcia Hernandez, they attacked, broke and made prisoner three battalions of French infantry formed in square, usually thought of as a formation impregnable to cavalry. \n\nBock was made temporary commander of Wellington's Cavalry during Cotton's convalescence July–October 1812, and again December 1812-June 1813. He served in the rearguard during the retreat from Burgos 1812, mishandling an ambush at Venta del Pozo (Villadrigo) 23 October. In 1813 he served at Vitoria 21 June.\n\nBock suffered from being very short sighted - before the charge at Garcia Hernandez he had to ask to be pointed in the direction of the enemy. \n\nOn 21 January 1814, Bock was drowned together with his son Lewis and other officers when the transport ship \"Bellona\" was wrecked on the Tulbest rocks, en route to England. His body was washed on shore at the little Breton village of Pleubian and interred.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "2051037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2051037", "title": "Environmental biotechnology", "text": "Environmental biotechnology\n\nEnvironmental biotechnology is biotechnology that is applied to and used to study the natural environment. Environmental biotechnology could also imply that one try to harness biological process for commercial uses and exploitation. The International Society for Environmental Biotechnology defines environmental biotechnology as \"the development, use and regulation of biological systems for remediation of contaminated environments (land, air, water), and for environment-friendly processes (green manufacturing technologies and sustainable development)\".\n\nEnvironmental biotechnology can simply be described as \"the optimal use of nature, in the form of plants, animals, bacteria, fungi and algae, to produce renewable energy, food and nutrients in a synergistic integrated cycle of profit making processes where the waste of each process becomes the feedstock for another process\".\n\nScience through the IAASTD has called for the advancement of small-scale agro-ecological farming systems and technology in order to achieve food security, climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation and the realisation of the Millennium Development Goals. Environmental biotechnology has been shown to play a significant role in agroecology in the form of zero waste agriculture and most significantly through the operation of over 15 million biogas digesters worldwide.\n\nConsider an environment in which pollution of a particular type is maximum. Let us consider the effluents of a starch industry which has mixed up with a local water body like a lake or pond. We find huge deposits of starch which are not so easily taken up for degradation by micro-organisms except for a few exemptions. we isolate a few micro-organisms from the polluted site and scan for any significant changes in their genome like mutations or evolutions. The modified genes are then identified. This is done because, the isolate would have adapted itself to degrade/utilize the starch better than other microbes of the same genus. Thus, the resultant genes are cloned onto industrially significant micro-organisms and are used for more economically significant processes like in pharmaceutical industry, fermentations...etc.\n\nSimilar situations can be elucitated like in the case of oil spills in the oceans which require cleanup, microbes isolated from oil rich environments like oil wells, oil transfer pipelines...etc. have been found having the potential to degrade oil or use it as an energy source. Thus they serve as a remedy to oil spills.\n\nStill another elucidation would be in the case of microbes isolated from pesticide rich soils These would be capable of utilizing the pesticides as energy source and hence when mixed along with bio-fertilizers, would serve as excellent insurance against increased pesticide-toxicity levels in agricultural platform.\n\nBut the counter argument would be that whether these newly introduced microorganisms would create an imbalance in the environment concerned.The mutual harmony in which the organisms in that particular environment existed may have to face alteration and we should be extremely careful so as to not disturb the mutual relationships already existing in the environment of both the benefits and the disadvantages would pave way for an improvised version of environmental biotechnology. After all it is the environment that we strive to protect.\n\nHumans have been manipulating genetic material for centuries. Although many benefits are provided by these manipulations, there can also be unexpected, negative health and environmental outcomes. Environmental biotechnology, then, is all about the balance between the applications that provide for these and the implications of manipulating genetic material. Textbooks address both the applications and implications. Environmental engineering texts addressing sewage treatment and biological principles are often now considered to be environmental biotechnology texts. These generally address the applications of biotechnologies, whereas the implications of these technologies are less often addressed; usually in books concerned with potential impacts and even catastrophic events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7474226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7474226", "title": "Georges Burou", "text": "Georges Burou\n\nGeorges Burou (1910–1987) was a French gynecologist who managed a clinic in Casablanca, Morocco and is widely credited with innovating modern sex reassignment surgery for trans women.\n\nNotable patients include Coccinelle, April Ashley and Jan Morris.\n\nSurgeons, including the late Stanley Biber, have credited Burou's methods as the basis for their techniques.\n\nBurou was born on September 6, 1910 in Tarbes in the Hautes Pyrénées, France, while his parents were visiting the Burou family in the nearby village of Juillan. His parents worked as schoolteachers in Algiers, where Burou spent his youth.\n\nBurou underwent medical training at the Algiers University of Medicine. He specialized in gynecology and obstetrics at the Maternity of Mustapha Hospital in Algiers and became “Chef de Clinique” at Parnet Hospital in the Algiers suburb of Hussein Dey. During his training Burou took a special interest in anatomy, and later colleagues were reportedly highly impressed by his detailed knowledge of the anatomy of the perineum and pelvis.\n\nFrom early 1943 onward Burou first served as a second lieutenant in the French Expeditionary Corps and eventually left North Africa as a military surgeon of the 2nd Moroccan Mountain Division to actively join battle at the French island of Corsica and the Italian river Garigliano and mountain of Cassino. Together with New Zealand and Indian troops, his division forced through the German Gustav Line at Cassino on May 13, 1944, the turning point in the liberation of Italy, and lost 1120 men in the process. After the liberation of Rome, Venice, and Siena, Burou landed at Cassis for the Allied campaigns in the Provence, the Alps, the Vosges, and the Alsace. During the subsequent liberation of Strasburg in 1945, one of his best friends died in combat. Shortly after, when in the south of Germany, his service ended when he returned to Algiers to bury his father.\n\nEarly reports of sex reassignment surgery had been published in Germany in the 1920s, but it was not until approximately three decades later that the practice became more generally known; early surgeries were performed mostly in Europe and Casablanca. Burou operated his sex reassignment clinic, called “Clinique du Parc”, out of Casablanca and in 1973 reported his experience with over 3000 individual cases. \n\nBetween 1956 and 1958 Burou independently developed the anteriorly pedicled penile skin flap inversion vaginoplasty in his clinic. The technique became the “gold standard” of skin-lined vaginoplasty in transsexuals. Burou performed well over 800 confirmed vaginoplasties by 1974. That year, he published his technique for the first time, and presented it at the Second Interdisciplinary Symposium on Gender Dysphoria syndrome. He is said to have worked at the clinic seven days a week, and more often than not, up to fifteen hours each day.\n\nIn addition to sex-reassignment, he also performed more common obstetrics and gynecology practices from the clinic. Outpatient appointments were held mostly in small offices in the Avenue d’Amade portion of the clinic, and the Rue Lapébie building held the operation rooms, a surgical ward, a 15-crib nursery, and delivery and patients’ rooms. Burou’s wife, Jeanne (“Nanou”) Boisvert, named rooms in the clinic after different flowers, each hand-painted on small frames on the doors. In contrast to these warm touches, “an air of stern purpose informed the fourth floor, for these were the operating quarters.”\n\nContact with the outside world was initially discouraged for patients during the early days of their recovery from sex-reassignment surgery. When patients were able to move about postoperatively, and later when going to Burou’s office to have their bandages changed, the clinic became a place where patients often had the opportunity to meet other transsexuals from various countries Morris recalls: “How many there were of us, I do not know, but we were of several varieties. We were Greek, French, American, British.”\n\nBurou reported all of his vaginoplasty patients to have been prepared, to have undergone psychiatric care, and hormonal therapy. However, patient Jan Morris wrote that Burou did not bother too much with diagnosis or previous treatment. Burou later confirmed that he did not ask his patients too many questions, but sought to fulfil their wishes, and that he did restrict his services to male-to-female (MTF) transsexuals with a distinct “feminine” appearance or character. He refused his services to minors even if they had parental consent, because he felt “the operation is definitive and irreversible and one… could not risk making a mistake.” His international patients were often admitted the afternoon they arrived at the clinic, and were prepared for surgery as soon as that evening or the next morning.\n\nJan Morris, who was one of Burou’s most prominent MTF patients, recalled in her memoir \"Conundrum\" that he would do his rounds twice daily “dressed for the corniche and looking in general pretty devastating.” Morris recalled that he would sit at the end of her bed “and chat desultorily of this and that, type a few very slow words on [her] typewriter, read a headline from \"The Times\" in a delectable Maurice Chevalier accent, and eventually take an infinitely gentle look at his handiwork.”\n\nBurou had little interest in finance and did not like to discuss financial matters with his patients; Morris quotes him: “You know my fee? Ah well, perhaps you will discuss it with my receptionist; bien, au revoir, until this evening!”\n\nThe entire surgical procedure was done in one operation consisting of two successive parts (which remains the prevailing methodology): (1) the creation of a space between the rectum and the prostate, and (2) the lining of this space with penile skin after the latter had been separated from its contents. Burou was acknowledged for his “results that are cosmetically excellent.”\n\nAccording to Burou, the operation began with an incision from the anal area through the scrotal raphe. After dissecting of the bulbus urethrae and both corpora cavernosa, the rectum and the prostate were separated by cutting all the ligaments between the bulb and the rectum. Burou made a point of barring, but not damaging, the posterior aspect of the prostate so that the penile skin flap after invagination would immediately overlie this aspect, which he felt optimized the possibility of postoperative orgasm. The separation was extended digitally and was considered complete as soon as two fingers or a vaginal retractor could be admitted easily. Burou considered this first part of the operation to be the most important, but most risky, and stressed the importance of repeated intrarectal inspection to determine that there was no lesion to the rectal wall.\n\nHe considered the second part of the operation to be relatively easy. The initial incision was extended along the raphe of the scrotum to the root of the penis. The surgical field was widened by retracting the scrotal skin on both sides and widely exposing the corpus spongiosum, both corpora cavernosa, and the two testes. Once the testes and their pedicles had been dissected, the spermatic cord was cut and ligated. Then, both corpora cavernosa were ligated and cut at a level just distally to their attachment to the inferior ramus of the pubic bone. The level of transection of the spongious bulb and urethra had to correspond with the length of the future urethra. Subsequently, all erectile bodies were pushed out and dissected from the penile skin. When available, the foreskin was kept and the distal, coronal edge of the penile skin was closed; this yielded the skin tube that was inserted as neovaginal lining.\n\nOn the lower abdominal skin, a slight skin slit was made to allow the future urethra to be passed through upon inversion of the neovaginal lining. A Foley catheter was inserted and the urethra was sutured onto the catheter, about 5 cm distally from its passage through the skin. No skin suture was used in the urethral meatus, and some kind of scar contraction was always foreseen. Two sutures were bilaterally passed through the perianal skin and the levator ani muscles and served to tightly and firmly support an obstetric stent, placed in the neovagina to provide support for the inverted skin flap. A drain was left in the posterior commissure and, finally, excess scrotal skin was resected to obtain a good appearance of the major labia.\n\nBurou’s first vaginoplasty, in 1956, took him three hours to complete, however at the height of his sex-reassignment work by 1974, performing up to six vaginoplasties a month, he could complete the procedure in one hour. The post-op patient’s arms were strapped to the bed for the first night after the procedure. The drain was removed 48 hours after surgery, the catheter four days, and the stent eight. The new vagina was managed by frequent or daily insertion of fingers or retractors, and the new urethra was kept open by the daily introduction of the catheter, ensuring against neomeatal stenosis. Most patients spent two weeks in the clinic.\n\nIn 1975 one patient addressed Burou, requesting his services, and received a prompt reply that detailed the cost of sex-reassignment surgery at U.S. $5000 “payable in cash upon arrival, if possible in travelers cheques.” The price included “12 - 15 days hospitalization at the clinic, medical care and fees included, as well as the doctor’s payment.” This price is considered modest for the time based upon reports that indicated the average cost of sex-reassignment surgery was on the rise. Burou is said to have been willing to make “enormous” financial concessions to his fees whenever a case “merited the operation”.\n\nBurou has been described as a “courteous gentleman” and a “charismatic man” as well as “gifted with extraordinary intelligence and dexterity.” He had grey-blue eyes, bronzed skin, rather intense features, and was always casually but impeccably dressed.\n\nHe was known to have a great love of the sea and had a great proclivity for water recreation throughout his life. A devoted sportsman, Burou loved all nautical sports, as well as golf, was a “fierce” windsurfer, and was among the first to cross the Strait of Gibraltar on water skis. He wished to become a commercial marine officer before going into medicine, and thus was at first reluctant to pursue his medical training.\n\nBurou spoke little English but for certain gynecological and golf vocabulary.\n\nBurou moved to Casablanca as a result of his fiancée, Jeanne (“Nanou”) Boisvert, whose parents had a farm there. It was with her assistance that he began practising gynecology and obstetrics independently in Morocco, from his private quarters on the third floor of a classic colonial building at 103 Boulevard de la Gare (later called Boulevard Mohammed V after Morocco’s independence).\n\nOn the morning of Sunday, 8 November 1942, while treating French sailors in the schoolyard of École de la Fonçiere at Rue de l’Horloge (later named Rue N’Chakra Rahal) after the arrival of U.S. Marine troops in Casablanca, Burou was nearly killed by a 10-kg piece of shell. He was protected only by the branch of a tree, and thereafter kept the piece of shell in his office, reportedly as a memento mori.\n\nIn 1950 Burou and his family moved to 71 Avenue d’Amade, situated across from Casablanca’s main park, now called Parc de la Ligue-Arabe. Burou and his wife “Nanou” built the Clinique du Parc on Rue Lapébie — the backstreet that ran parallel to the prestigious avenue. Burou wanted the building attached to his office and private quarters so as “not to distance himself from his patients,” and so that he could be immediately available should a patient be admitted late at night. Additionally, this allowed his patients the choice of entering the clinic either from the elegant Avenue d’Amade main entrance or the more inconspicuous Rue Lapébie entrance.\n\nBurou continued to work at the Clinique du Parc until his death in 1987. On Sunday 17 December his boat ran out of fuel outside of the harbour of Mohammedia, and he subsequently drowned. His body went undiscovered for five days.\n\nDue to the controversial nature of the procedure, Burou is said to have kept a low profile in order to continue his practice. His work at Clinique du Parc, which has been described by current day plastic surgeons as “pioneering”, “innovative”, and “genius”, made Burou a notable figure in the recorded history of plastic surgery. The discretion of Burou’s clinic made him relatively unknown to his medical contemporaries, despite the fact that he was well known among many trans women around the world. His level of renown was such that \"going to Casablanca\" became a popular colloquialism for gender confirming surgery at this time. Burou was a notable resource for a great many trans women throughout much of the latter half of the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "531115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=531115", "title": "Harry Bateman", "text": "Harry Bateman\n\nHarry Bateman FRS (29 May 1882 – 21 January 1946) was an English mathematician.\n\nHarry Bateman first grew to love mathematics at Manchester Grammar School, and in his final year, won a scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge. Bateman studied with coach Robert Alfred Herman preparing for Cambridge Mathematical Tripos. He distinguished himself in 1903 as Senior Wrangler (tied with P.E. Marrack) and by winning the Smith's Prize (1905). He published his first paper when he was still an undergradaute student on \"The determination of curves satisfying given conditions\". He studied in Göttingen and Paris, taught at the University of Liverpool and University of Manchester before moving to the US in 1910. First he taught at Bryn Mawr College and then Johns Hopkins University. There, working with Frank Morley in geometry, he achieved the PhD, but he had already published more than sixty papers including some of his celebrated papers before getting his PhD. In 1917 he took up his permanent position at California Institute of Technology, then still called \"Throop Polytechnic Institute\".\n\nEric Temple Bell says, \"Like his contemporaries and immediate predecessors among Cambridge mathematicians of the first decade of this century [1901–1910]... Bateman was thoroughly trained in both pure analysis and mathematical physics, and retained an equal interest in both throughout his scientific career.\"\n\nTheodore von Kármán was called in as an advisor for a projected aeronautics laboratory at Caltech and later gave this appraisal of Bateman.\n\nHarry Bateman married Ethel Horner in 1912 and had a son named Harry Graham, who died as a child, later the couple adopted a daughter named Joan Margaret. He died on his way to New York in 1946 of Coronary thrombosis.\n\nIn 1907 Harry Bateman was lecturing at the University of Liverpool together with another senior wrangler, Ebenezer Cunningham. Together they came up in 1908 with the idea of a conformal group of spacetime (now usually denoted as ) which involved an extension of the method of images. For his part, in 1910 Bateman published \"\". He showed that the Jacobian matrix of a spacetime diffeomorphism which preserves the Maxwell equations is proportional to an orthogonal matrix, hence conformal. The transformation group of such transformations has \"15 parameters\" and extends both the Poincaré group and the Lorentz group. Bateman called the elements of this group spherical wave transformations.\n\nIn evaluating this paper, one of his students, Clifford Truesdell, wrote\n\nBateman was the first to apply Laplace transform to integral equation in 1906. He submitted a detailed report on integral equation in 1911 in the British association for the advancement of science. Horace Lamb in his 1910 paper solved an integral equation \nas a double integral, but in his footnote he says, \"Mr. H. Bateman, to whom I submitted the question, has obtained a simpler solution in the form\" \n\nIn 1914 Bateman published \"The Mathematical Analysis of Electrical and Optical Wave-motion\". As Murnaghan says, this book \"is unique and characteristic of the man. Into less than 160 small pages is crowded a wealth of information which would take an expert years to digest.\"\nThe following year he published a textbook \"Differential Equations\", and sometime later \"Partial differential equations of mathematical physics\". Bateman is also author of \"Hydrodynamics\" and \"Numerical integration of differential equations\". Bateman studied the Burgers' equation long before Jan Burgers started to study.\n\nHarry Bateman wrote two significant articles on the history of applied mathematics:\n\nIn his \"Mathematical Analysis of Electrical and Optical Wave-motion\" (p. 131) he describes the charged-corpuscle trajectory as follows:\nThis figure of speech is not to be confused with a string in physics, for the universes in string theory have dimensions inflated beyond four, something not found in Bateman's work. Bateman went on to study the luminiferous aether with an article \"The structure of the Aether\". His starting point is the bivector form of an electromagnetic field E + iB. He recalled Alfred-Marie Liénard's electromagnetic fields, and then distinguished another type he calls \"aethereal fields\":\n\nBateman received many honours for his contributions, including election to the Royal Society of London in 1928, election to the National Academy of Sciences in 1930. He was elected as vice-president of the American Mathematical Society in 1935 and was the Society's Gibbs Lecturer for 1943. He was on his way to New York to receive an award from the Institute of Aeronautical Science when he died of coronary thrombosis. The \"Harry Bateman Research Instructorships\" at the California Institute of Technology are named in his honour.\n\nAfter his death, his notes on higher transcendental functions were edited by A. Erdélyi, W. Magnus, F. Oberhettinger, and F. G. Tricomi, and published in 1954.\n\nIn a review of Bateman's book \"Partial Differential Equations of Mathematical Physics\", Richard Courant says that \"there is no other work which presents the analytical tools and the results\nachieved by means of them equally completely and with as many original contributions\" and also \"advanced students and research workers alike will read it with great benefit\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10436317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10436317", "title": "Horsez", "text": "Horsez\n\nHorsez is a videogame released by Ubisoft on October 26, 2006 for the Nintendo DS, PlayStation 2, PC and Game Boy Advance. This PC game is the sequel to \"\" and is also part of the second series of Petz. In \"Horsez\", you play as Flora (this is the default name), a new member of the Sycamore Academy. Players can select a horse from one of 5 breeds and a range of colours. The player trains their horse in different disciplines, enters shows, cares for their horse, and after a few weeks gains a foal to raise. \n\n\"Horsez\" is also known as \"Pippa Funnell 3: The Golden Stirrup Challenge.\"\n\nAs the player, you have to arrange your timetable so that you can pass each week. To pass, you must obtain a certain score out of 10 for each of the disciplines, and must train in that discipline at least twice a week. The disciplines are Horse Care, Cross Country, Dressage, Showjumping, and later Foal Care and Learning. You must also have a high social rating, which is obtained by spending time in the Student Centre talking to other academy riders, performing well in disciplines, taking and displaying photographs in the Student Centre, and purchasing items from the shops. Between training and caring for your horse, foal, and talking to the other riders, you may go shopping, change your attire in your bedroom, study in the library and go for a walk with your horse. In each country, there are a number of secrets to find. These are small figurines, and there are 10 in total. \n\nThroughout the game, the player is sometimes given control of the protagonist or the horse, and can move around freely. There are numerous cutscenes, events where your character has to find something (some of these can be very difficult) and riddles. Preceding many events is a journal entry with a voiceover. These events, combined with the contrasting disciplines, ensure the gameplay is variable.\n\nFirst, the player must choose a name for the character they will be playing and a mount. The player can choose from 5 breeds: Arabian Thoroughbred, English Thoroughbred, Connemara, Appaloosa and Saddlebred. Each breed has a range of colours including a number of shades of brown, bay and grey. After the horse is selected and named (the horse's name is ignored for the rest of the game), play begins with a journal entry and a cutscene. The player is then given control of the horse. \n\nThe main character is Flora and her horse. Other characters include the staff at the riding academy, fellow riders, and later the player's rival, Daniela. Daniela's director is Esteban, who had a previous relationship with Jade. \n\nFriends: \nMiguel: Male, short brown hair, glasses. Shy, loves poetry. Has a crush on the protagonist. \nSamuel: Male, dark skin, black hair. Loves loud rock music. \nCaroll: Female, red hair. Fairly quiet, can be a bit slow. \nAurelie: Female, brown hair. Plays the violin. Likes fashion. \n\nIn the Student Centre, the player can talk to these friends and learn their stories.\n\nHorse Care: Taking care of a horse. Horse Care includes hosing, grooming, picking his hooves and mucking his stall. It is best to do this at least 3 times a week. \n\nCross Country: You canter your horse around the course, pressing the spacebar key to jump when you are in the right spot (there is a green circle that you must be in when you jump, otherwise your horse will balk or throw you).\n\nDressage: You press the left and right arrow keys in time to make your horse perform the correct gait. Other keys are also used to control your horse and halt and salute. You need to go to the library and read the books on all the gaits each week to ensure you know them all, otherwise your horse won't do them. \n\nShowjumping: A fairly difficult discipline to master. You canter inside the ring following the arrows and jumping at the jumps.\n\nFoal Care: Once you have your foal, you have to take care of it. During Foal Care, your foal will perform 3 actions. You need to guess what the foal wants based on what it does. Each week, you should go to the library and read up on foal care, and take notes so you can look at them and decide which action you think your foal is doing, and act accordingly. \n\nLearning: Once you have your foal, you need to raise it. Learning involves you teach your foal different gaits.\n\nA sequel was created for Horsez. With somewhat similar plots: the main character is a young woman named Emma. She was sent to France to train to become a veterinarian. However, with the taxi broken down, she has no choice but to take refuge in a small, quiet town. There, she meets Oliver, a nephew of his aunt's stud farm, who is missing its real owner, Marie. After finding out Emma is a vet, he offers to give her shelter if she helps them with a mare in foal. Emma agrees, after meeting Flora, Micheal (formerly called Miguel in Horsez), and Carol, the character is given some objectives. The character delivers a healthy foal, and then is given the choice of the player to stay with the stud farm or leave as a vet. Either way, the game still continues. \n\nMost of the main parts are:\nThe character is given a challenge to spy on the Mayor, who wants to take over the stud farm for a housing development. \n\nThe character saves Oliver in three different ways. \n\nThe character is given secondary objectives to complete. \n\nThe character competes in competitions for extra money and horse breeds. \n\nIn the end, the characters win back the stud farm, though end results are dependent on the player's choices throughout the game. In one part, find out that Marie is still alive and well. In this ending she leaves the stud farm to Flora, and promises to visit soon, having settled in New Zealand. Other possible endings include Emma getting Oliver (and herself) tickets to the US so she can show him her country, and Emma and Oliver sharing a kiss on the beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "11798752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11798752", "title": "International Day of Non-Violence", "text": "International Day of Non-Violence\n\nThe International Day of Non-Violence is observed on 2 October, the birthday of Mahatma Gandhi. This day is referred to in India as \"Gandhi Jayanti\".\n\nIn January 2004, Iranian Nobel laureate Shirin Ebadi had taken a proposal for an International Day of Non-Violence from a Hindi teacher in Paris teaching international students to the World Social Forum in Mumbai. The idea gradually attracted the interest of some leaders of India's Congress Party (\"Ahimsa Finds Teen Voice\", The Telegraph, Calcutta) until a Satyagraha Conference resolution in New Delhi in January 2007, initiated by Indian National Congress President and Chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance Sonia Gandhi and Archbishop Desmond Tutu, called upon the United Nations to adopt the idea.\n\nOn 15 June 2007 the United Nations General Assembly voted to establish 2 October as the International Day of Non-Violence. The resolution by the General Assembly asks all members of the UN system to commemorate 2 October in \"an appropriate manner and disseminate the message of non-violence, including through education and public awareness.\"\n\nThe United Nations Postal Administration (UNPA) in New York City prepared a special cachet to commemorate this event, following a request from the Indian Ambassador at the Permanent Mission of India to the UN. The boxed pictorial cachet design was prepared by the UNPA and was limited to cancellation at UNPA's NY location (not Geneva and Vienna). The UNPA has indicated that all outgoing UNPA mail between 2 and 31 October carried the cachet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50381194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50381194", "title": "Jack Bowdler", "text": "Jack Bowdler\n\nJack Bowdler (born 1870) was a Welsh footballer. He was part of the Wales national football team between 1890 and 1894, playing 5 matches and scoring 3 goals. He played his first match on 8 February 1890 against Ireland and his last match on 12 March 1894 against England.\n\n"}
{"id": "26838452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26838452", "title": "James B. Adams (composer)", "text": "James B. Adams (composer)\n\nJames Blake Adams (c. 1749 – after 1794) was an English composer, organist, and cellist. He is known for many small instrumental and vocal compositions between 1770 and 1820. He is best known for the song, \"The Nightingale\", which remains popular.\n\nHe was organist for Brompton Chapel in 1784 and is known to have performed cello in various concerts from then on, most notably the Handel commemoration concerts of 1784 and the annual concerts for the relief of the clergy at St. Paul's Cathedral.\n\nAdams changed his musical style from time to time. His early songs on the harpsichord had the manner of Thomas Arne, his canzonets accompanied by chamber orchestra referred slightly to J. C. Bach, and his violin and cello sonatas were closed to the works of Haydn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48745417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48745417", "title": "James Teare", "text": "James Teare\n\nJames Teare (6 August 1872 – 3 December 1909) was a Manx merchant navy officer who served as a seaman and later as an officer on numerous Isle of Man Steam Packet Company vessels. Capt. Teare is best known as the Master of the RMS \"Ellan Vannin\" on her ill-fated voyage from Ramsey, Isle of Man to Liverpool on 3 December 1909.\n\nJames Teare was born in Peel, Isle of Man on 6 August 1872 and raised at St German's Place. He made his career at sea, joining the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company in 1891 as a seaman, rising through the ranks and serving on the \"Mona's Isle\" as well as various other company ships.\nAs his career progressed he served as First Officer under Capt. Hill on the \"Snaefell\" and following Capt. Hill's resignation from the company he gained his first command on the \"Ellan Vannin\" which he assumed in July 1904. This was followed in turn by him taking command of the \"Fenella\" in 1905 and the \"Douglas\" in May 1906. He then left the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company and pursued a career with an international shipping line before returning to the Isle of Man and re-joining the Steam Packet Company.\n\nThe summer of 1909 saw Capt. Teare in command of the \"King Orry.\" Following the summer season he went on shore leave and as the year closed he resumed command of the \"Ellan Vannin\" for a month's winter service, which by December 1909 was the smallest and oldest vessel in the Steam Packet Fleet.\n\nKnown for being a cautious and diligent captain as well as a lifelong teetotaler, James Teare was married with four children and lived at No 9 York Road, Douglas, Isle of Man.\n\nOn 3 December 1909, \"Ellan Vannin\" left her home port of Ramsey at , under the command of Captain Teare.\n\"Ellan Vannin\" was carrying 15 passengers and 21 crew as well as mail and 60 tonnes of cargo which included approximately 60 sheep.\nThe weather on departure was moderate and although the barometric pressure was falling Captain Teare did not expect a significant deterioration in the weather. The wind direction on departure was from the northwest meaning the \"Ellan Vannin\" would have a following sea during her passage, something which would have caused her Master no particular concern. However, the weather rapidly worsened and by , when the ship arrived at the Mersey Bar Lightship, the wind had risen to a Hurricane Force 12, and waves were reported to be exceeding in height.\n\nA strong consensus at the time was that with a following sea the \"Ellan Vannin\" had made good progress to the Bar Lightship. Upon reaching the Bar her course would have been changed from approximately 130 degrees to 080 degrees as she entered the approach channel to the river. This would have caused her to take the sea on her port beam with the result that she got sufficiently off her course to strike a sandbank thereby causing her to founder, (a nautical term for filling with water and sinking), between the Bar lightship and the Q1 buoy sinking in the Mersey approach channel (at ). It is believed she was broached by a large wave, which overwhelmed the ship. She was swept by heavy seas and filled, sinking by the stern with the loss of all passengers and crew.\n\nNews of the disaster reached Douglas on the Friday evening, and the directors sat in almost continuous session until Monday. Communication was by telegram and information was difficult to ascertain. At approximately a telegram was received which reported that the crew of the Formby Lightship had seen lifebuoys, bags of turnips, several dead sheep and a piano floating near the lightship. It was also reported that the crew of the lightship had picked up a mail bag which was destined for the Birkenhead Post Office and which was found to contain letters despatched from Ramsey.\nThe following morning the company offices in Douglas received a telegram from Liverpool stating that one of the \"Ellan Vannin's\" lifeboats had been washed ashore at New Brighton with its cover on and its working gear inside. Also washed ashore were parts of the ship's bridge.\n\nIt was five days after the ship went down that the first bodies were recovered. On Monday 17 January 1910 Captain Teare's body was found washed ashore on Ainsdale beach in Southport with an inquest into his death being held on Wednesday 19 January. Also on 17 January the body of First Officer John Craine was found. It too had been washed ashore at Southport. Both bodies were subsequently returned to the Isle of Man for burial.\n\nThe Board of Trade inquiry found that Captain Teare was not to blame for the disaster and the cause was extreme weather. The official inquiry referred to waves high and declared the ship to have been in good condition and fully seaworthy. After the foundering, her masts broke the surface. Divers inspecting the ship found damage to the bows and that the lifeboat davits had been swung out ready for lowering. Soon after the disaster the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board destroyed the wreck using explosives, as it was causing a hazard to shipping in the channel.\n\nAlthough the Isle of Man Steam Packet Company has a tradition of reusing ship names, they have never reused the name .\n\nA song written by Hughie Jones of The Spinners commemorates the disaster.\n"}
{"id": "360984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360984", "title": "Jessica McClure", "text": "Jessica McClure\n\nJessica McClure Morales (born March 26, 1986) became famous on October 14, 1987, at the age of 18 months after she fell into a well in her aunt's backyard in Midland, Texas. Between that day and October 16, rescuers worked for 56 hours to free her from the well casing below the ground. The story gained worldwide attention (leading to some criticism as a media circus), and later became the subject of a 1989 ABC television movie \"\".\n\nMcClure's rescue proved to be a much more difficult ordeal than was first anticipated. Within hours of beginning the emergency procedure, the Midland Fire and Police Departments devised a plan that involved drilling another shaft parallel to the well and then drilling a tunnel at a right angle across to it. Enlisting the help of a variety of local (often out-of-work) oil-drillers, the Midland officials had hoped to free McClure in minutes. However, the first workers to arrive on the scene found their tools barely adequate to penetrate the hard rock around the well. It took about six hours to drill the shaft and longer to drill the tunnel, because the jackhammers used were designed for drilling downward, rather than sideways. A mining engineer eventually arrived to help supervise and coordinate the rescue effort. TV viewers watched as paramedics and rescuers, drilling experts and contractors worked tirelessly to save the baby's life. Meanwhile, they were reassured when they heard Jessica singing “Winnie the Pooh” from deep in the well. As long as she was still singing, they knew she was still alive. Forty-five hours after McClure fell into the well, the shaft and tunnel were finally completed.\n\nThe relatively new technology of waterjet cutting, used to cut through the hard rock surrounding the well, was a vital part of the rescue.\n\nRon Short, a muscular roofing contractor who was born without collar bones because of cleidocranial dysostosis and so could collapse his shoulders to work in cramped corners, arrived at the site and offered to go down the shaft. They considered his offer, but did not use it. One report said that he helped to clear tunneling debris away.\n\nMidland Fire Department paramedic Robert O'Donnell was ultimately able to inch his way into the tunnel and wrestle McClure free from the confines of the well, handing her to fellow paramedic Steve Forbes, who carried her up to safety.\n\nCNN was on the scene with around-the-clock coverage of the rescue effort. This massive media saturation of the ordeal prompted then-President Ronald Reagan to state that \"everybody in America became godmothers and godfathers of Jessica while this was going on.\"\n\nFrom the beginning and throughout the incident, the switchboard of local media outlet KMID-TV was flooded with telephone calls from news organizations and private individuals around the world, seeking the latest information on rescue efforts. In some cases, they shared their own insight into this and similar incidents.\n\nIn 1988, McClure and her parents appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\" to talk about the incident.\n\nThe photograph of McClure being rescued fetched the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography to Scott Shaw of the \"Odessa American\".\n\nABC made a television movie of the story in 1989, \"\", starring Patty Duke and Beau Bridges. It featured many participants in the actual rescue and its coverage as extras.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, \"USA Today\" ranked McClure number 22 on its list of \"25 lives of indelible impact.\"\n\nFollowing McClure's rescue on October 16, 1987, surgeons had to amputate a toe due to gangrene from loss of circulation while she was in the well. She also has a scar on her forehead where her head rubbed against the well casing. She had 15 surgeries over the years and has no first-hand memory of the event. Her parents divorced a few years after the rescue.\n\nParamedic Robert O'Donnell, battling posttraumatic stress disorder as a result of the arduous rescue effort and struggling to cope with the abrupt decline of the fame and recognition that had been lavished on him following his heroic act, committed suicide in 1995.\n\nMcClure graduated from Greenwood High School, in a small community near Midland, in May 2004. On January 28, 2006, nineteen-year-old McClure married Daniel Morales at Church of Christ in Notrees, Texas, about 40 miles from Midland. They met at a day care center where she worked with his sister. They have two children, a boy born 2007 and a girl born 2009.\n\nWhen McClure turned 25 on March 26, 2011, she received a trust fund of donations worth up to $800,000. Her father said she had discussed setting up a trust fund for the college education of her children. It had earlier helped in the purchase of her present home, which is less than from the site of the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34650949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34650949", "title": "Kidnap Syndicate", "text": "Kidnap Syndicate\n\nLa città sconvolta: caccia spietata ai rapitori (internationally released as Kidnap Syndicate) is a 1975 Italian poliziottesco directed by Fernando Di Leo. Even being a minor work in the Di Leo's filmography, the film gained some critical attention for being an original re-interpretation of the \"vigilante\" subgenre.\n\n"}
{"id": "26600107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26600107", "title": "List of cemeteries in Japan", "text": "List of cemeteries in Japan\n\nThis is a list of cemeteries in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "875547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875547", "title": "Marital rape", "text": "Marital rape\n\nMarital rape or spousal rape is the act of sexual intercourse with one's spouse without the spouse's consent. The lack of consent is the essential element and need not involve violence. Marital rape is considered a form of domestic violence and sexual abuse. Although, historically, sexual intercourse within marriage was regarded as a right of spouses, engaging in the act without the spouse's consent is now widely recognized by law and society as a wrong and as a crime. It is recognized as rape by many societies around the world, repudiated by international conventions, and increasingly criminalized.\n\nThe issues of sexual and domestic violence within marriage and the family unit, and more specifically, the issue of violence against women, have come to growing international attention from the second half of the 20th century. Still, in many countries, marital rape either remains outside the criminal law, or is illegal but widely tolerated. Laws are rarely being enforced, due to factors ranging from reluctance of authorities to pursue the crime, to lack of public knowledge that sexual intercourse in marriage without consent is illegal.\n\nMarital rape is more widely experienced by women, though not exclusively. Marital rape is often a chronic form of violence for the victim which takes place within abusive relations. It exists in a complex web of state governments, cultural practices, and societal ideologies which combine to influence each distinct instance and situation in varying ways. The reluctance to criminalize and prosecute marital rape has been attributed to traditional views of marriage, interpretations of religious doctrines, ideas about male and female sexuality, and to cultural expectations of subordination of a wife to her husband—views which continue to be common in many parts of the world. These views of marriage and sexuality started to be challenged in most Western countries from the 1960s and 70s especially by second-wave feminism, leading to an acknowledgment of the woman's right to self-determination (i.e., control) of all matters relating to her body, and the withdrawal of the exemption or defense of marital rape.\n\nMost countries criminalized marital rape from the late 20th century onward—very few legal systems allowed for the prosecution of rape within marriage before the 1970s. Criminalization has occurred through various ways, including removal of statutory exemptions from the definitions of rape, judicial decisions, explicit legislative reference in statutory law preventing the use of marriage as a defense, or creating of a specific offense of marital rape. In many countries, it is still unclear whether marital rape is covered by the ordinary rape laws, but in some it may be covered by general statutes prohibiting violence, such as assault and battery laws.\n\nOne of the origins of the concept of a marital exemption from rape laws (a rule that a husband cannot be charged with the rape of his wife) is the idea that by marriage a woman gives irrevocable consent for her husband to have sex with her any time he demands it. This view was described by Sir Matthew Hale (1609–1676) in \"History of the Pleas of the Crown\", published posthumously in 1736, where he wrote that \"The husband cannot be guilty of a rape committed by himself upon his lawful wife, for by their mutual consent and contract the wife hath given up herself in this kind unto her husband, which she cannot retract\". Also, American and English law subscribed until the 20th century to the system of coverture, that is, a legal doctrine under which, upon marriage, a woman's legal rights were subsumed by those of her husband. The implication was that once unified by marriage, a spouse could no longer be charged with raping one's spouse, anymore than be charged with raping oneself. In the US, the wife's legal subordination to her husband was fully ended by the case of \"Kirchberg v. Feenstra\", , a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held a Louisiana Head and Master law, which gave sole control of marital property to the husband, unconstitutional. English common law also had a great impact on many legal systems of the world through colonialism. (Bovarnik, 2007).\n\nMarriage was traditionally understood as an institution where a husband had control over his wife's life; control over her sexuality was only a part of the greater control that he had in all other areas concerning her. A husband's control over his wife's body could also be seen in the way adultery between a wife and another man was constructed; for example in 1707, English Lord Chief Justice John Holt described the act of a man having sexual relations with another man's wife as \"the highest invasion of property\". For this reason, in many cultures there was a conflation between the crimes of rape and adultery, since both were seen and understood as a violation of the rights of the husband. Rape as a crime was constructed as a property crime against a father or husband not as a crime against the woman's right to self-determination.\n\nThe property to be withheld in a female was her virginity; this was the commodity (Bergen, 2016). Following this line of logic, a woman was (and still is in many cultures across the globe) first the property of her father, then, upon marriage, the property of her husband (Bergen, 2016). Therefore, a man could not be prosecuted for raping his own wife because she was his possession (Schelong, 1994). However, if another man raped someone's wife, this was essentially stealing property (a women's sexuality) (Bergen, 2016). In English customs, \"bride capture\" (a man claiming a woman through rape) was thought to be stealing a father's property by raping his daughter. Therefore, rape laws were created to \"…protect the property interests men had in their women, not to protect women themselves\" (Schelong, 1994). This concept of women as property permeates current marital rape ideology and laws throughout the globe.\n\nIn some cultures, marriage is arranged for the purpose of creating access to procreation (Yllö, 2016). In these situations, the parties do not necessarily consent to marriage (in the case of forced marriage) (Yllö, 2016). Following this logic, if consent is not part of marriage, then it is not necessary for intercourse. The autonomy of the wife is also often compromised in cultures where bride price is paid. Under customary law in certain parts of Africa, forced sex in marriage was not prohibited, although some specific circumstances, such as during advanced pregnancy, immediately after childbirth, during menstruation, or during mourning for a deceased close relative, were recognized as giving the wife the right to refuse sex.\n\nRape has been, until recent decades, understood as a crime against honor and reputation – not only in domestic legislation, but also in international law; for example according to the Article 27 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, \"Women shall be especially protected against any attack on their honour, in particular against rape, enforced prostitution, or any form of indecent assault\". It was not until the 1990s that the ICC statute recognized crimes of sexual violence as violent crimes against the person; \"Not until the last half century was rape understood to be an offense against the woman, against her dignity, instead of against her family's or her husband's honor\".\n\nHistorically, many cultures have had a concept of spouses' conjugal rights to sexual intercourse with each other. This can be seen in English common law, in force in North America and the British Commonwealth, where the very concept of marital rape was treated as an impossibility. This was illustrated most vividly by Sir Matthew Hale, (1609-1676), in his legal treatise \"Historia Placitorum Coronæ\" or \"History of the Pleas of the Crown\" (posthumously, 1736) where he wrote that \"The husband cannot be guilty of a rape committed by himself upon his lawful wife, for by their mutual consent and contract the wife hath given up herself in this kind unto her husband, which she cannot retract.\"\n\nSir Matthew Hale's statement in \"History of the Pleas of the Crown\" did not cite any legal precedent though it likely relied on earlier standards. In a case of Lord Audley's (1488–1544), for instance, his citation of the jurist Bracton (c. 1210 – c. 1268) supports this rule, said to have derived from laws of King Æthelstan (r. 927–939) where upon the law holds that even \"were the party of no chaste life, but a whore, yet there may be ravishment: but it is a good plea to say she was his concubine\". The lawfulness of the conjugal act itself was understood as a logical consequence of a lawful marriage. Marriage created conjugal rights between spouses, and marriage could not be annulled except by a private Act of Parliament—it therefore follows that a spouse could not revoke conjugal rights from the marriage, and therefore there could be no rape between spouses. The principle was repeated in East's \"Treatise of the Pleas of the Crown\" in 1803 and in Archbold's \"Pleading and Evidence in Criminal Cases\" in 1822. The principle was framed as an exemption to the law of rape in an English courtroom in \"R v Clarence\", but it was not overturned until 1991 by the House of Lords in the case of \"R. v. R\" in 1991, where it was described as an anachronistic and offensive legal fiction.\n\nFrom the beginnings of the 19th century feminist movement, activists challenged the presumed right of men to engage in forced or coerced sex with their wives. In the United States, \"the nineteenth-century woman's rights movement fought against a husband's right to control marital intercourse in a campaign that was remarkably developed, prolific, and insistent, given nineteenth-century taboos against the public mention of sex or sexuality.\" Suffragists including Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucy Stone \"singled out a woman's right to control marital intercourse as the core component of equality.\"\n\nNineteenth century feminist demands centered on the right of women to control their bodies and fertility, positioned consent in marital sexual relations as an alternative to contraception and abortion (which many opposed), and also embraced eugenic concerns about excessive procreation. British liberal feminists John Stuart Mill and Harriet Taylor attacked marital rape as a gross double-standard in law and as central to the subordination of women.\n\nAdvocates of the Free Love Movement, including early anarcha-feminists such as Voltairine de Cleyre and Emma Goldman, as well as Victoria Woodhull, Thomas Low Nichols, and Mary S. Gove Nichols, joined a critique of marital rape to advocate women's autonomy and sexual pleasure. Moses Harman, a Kansas-based publisher and advocate for women's rights, was jailed twice under the Comstock laws for publishing articles (by a woman who was victimized and a doctor who treated marital rape survivors) decrying marital rape. De Cleyre defended Harman in a well-known article, \"Sexual Slavery.\" She refused to draw any distinction between rape outside of and within marriage: \"And that is rape, where a man forces himself sexually upon a woman whether he is licensed by the marriage law to do it or not.\"\n\nBertrand Russell (who was awarded the 1950 Nobel Prize in Literature) in his book \"Marriage and Morals\" (1929) deplored the situation of married women. He wrote \"Marriage is for woman the commonest mode of livelihood, and the total amount of undesired sex endured by women is probably greater in marriage than in prostitution.\"\n\nThe marital rape exemption or defence became more widely viewed as inconsistent with the developing concepts of human rights and equality. Feminists worked systematically since the 1960s to overturn the marital rape exemption and criminalize marital rape. Increasing criminalization of spousal rape is part of a worldwide reclassification of sexual crimes \"from offenses against morality, the family, good customs, honor, or chastity ... to offenses against liberty, self-determination, or physical integrity.\" In December 1993, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights published the \"Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women\". This establishes marital rape as a human rights violation.\n\nThe importance of the right to self sexual determination of women is increasingly being recognized as crucial to women's rights. In 2012, High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay stated that:\n\nDespite these trends and international moves, criminalization has not occurred in all UN member States. Determining the criminal status of marital rape may be challenging, because, while some countries \"explicitly criminalize\" the act (by stipulating in their rape laws that marriage is not a defense to a charge of rape; or by creating a specific crime of 'marital rape'; or, otherwise, by having statutory provisions that expressly state that a spouse can be charged with the rape of their other spouse) and other countries \"explicitly exempt\" spouses (by defining rape as forced sexual intercourse outside of marriage; or forced sexual intercourse with a woman not the perpetrator's wife; or by providing in their rape provisions that marriage is a defense to a charge of rape), in many countries the ordinary rape laws are silent on the issue (that is, they do not address the issue one way or another)—in such cases, in order to determine whether marital rape is covered by the ordinary rape laws it must be analyzed whether there are judicial decisions in this respect; and former definitions of the law are also important (for instance whether there was previously a statutory exemption that was removed by legislators for the purpose of implicitly including marital rape).\n\nIn 2006, the UN Secretary-General's in-depth study on all forms of violence against women stated that (page 113):\n\nIn 2011, the UN Women report Progress of the World's Women:In Pursuit of Justice stated that (page 17):\n\nTraditionally, rape was a criminal offense that could only be committed outside marriage, and courts did not apply the rape statutes to acts of forced sex between spouses. With changing social views, and international condemnation of sexual violence in marriage, courts have started to apply the rape laws in marriage. The current applicability in many countries of rape laws to spouses is currently unclear, since in many countries the laws have not been recently tested in court. In some countries, notably jurisdictions which have inherited the 1860 Indian Penal Code (such as Singapore, India, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Burma) and some countries in the Commonwealth Caribbean region, the laws explicitly exempt spouses from prosecution (for instance, under the 1860 Indian Penal Code, which has also been inherited by other countries in the region, the law on rape states that \"Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife is not rape\").\n\nAn example of a country where the rape law \"explicitly excludes\" a husband as a possible perpetrator is Ethiopia; its rape law states: \"Article 620 - Rape: Whoever compels a woman to submit to sexual intercourse \"outside wedlock\", whether by the use of violence or grave intimidation, or after having rendered her unconscious or incapable of resistance, is punishable with rigorous imprisonment from five years to fifteen years\". Another example is South Sudan, where the law states: \"Sexual intercourse by a married couple is not rape, within the meaning of this section\". (Art 247). Conversely, an example of country where the rape law \"explicitly criminalizes\" marital rape is Namibia - The Combating of Rape Act (No. 8 of 2000) states that: \"No marriage or other relationship shall constitute a defence to a charge of rape under this Act\". An example of a jurisdiction where marital rape is a \"distinct\" criminal offense is Bhutan where 'Marital rape' is defined by Article 199 which reads: \"A defendant shall be guilty of marital rape, if the defendant engages in sexual intercourse with one's own spouse without consent or against the will of the other spouse\".\n\nBy 1986, in Europe, there was international pressure to criminalize marital rape: the \"European Parliament's Resolution on Violence Against Women of 1986\" called for its criminalization. This was reiterated by the Recommendation Rec(2002)5 of the Committee of Ministers to member states on the protection of women against violence. (see para 35) This recommendation provided detailed guidelines on how legislation regarding domestic violence, rape, and other forms of violence against women should operate. It also provided a definition of violence against women, and gave a list of non-exhaustive examples, including marital rape (see section \"Definition\" para 1). Although the approach on the issue of violence against women has varied significantly among European countries, the traditional view that acts of violence against a woman are crimes against honor and morality, and not against the self-determination of the woman, was still prevalent in the 1990s in many countries. The above recommendation stated that member states must \"ensure that criminal law provides that any act of violence against a person, in particular physical or sexual violence, constitutes a violation of that person's physical, psychological and/or sexual freedom and integrity, and not solely a violation of morality, honour or decency\" (para 34). The approach regarding sexual and other forms of violence against women in specific European countries did not necessarily mirror women's rights in other areas of life (such as public or political life) in those countries: in fact some countries otherwise known for advanced women's rights, such as Finland and Denmark, have received strong criticism for their policies in this area. A 2008 report produced by Amnesty International, described Danish laws on sexual violence as \"inconsistent with international human rights standards\", which has led to Denmark eventually reforming its sexual offenses legislation in 2013. (Until 2013, in Denmark \"the Penal Code reduce[d] the level of penalty or provide[d] for exclusion of punishment altogether for rape and sexual violence within marriage in certain instances [...] and if the perpetrator enter[ed] into or continu[ed] a marriage with his victim the punishment for rape c[ould] be reduced or remitted\"). Cultural and religious values which support female subordination and inequality are considered important in dealing with the issue of sexual violence against women; but there have been calls for analyses of cultural gender norms which tolerate violence against women to not be based on stereotypes; Mala Htun and Laurel Weldon write \"gender policy is not one issue but many\" and \"When [...] Latin American countries are quicker to adopt policies addressing violence against women than the Nordic countries, one at least ought to consider the possibility that fresh ways of grouping states would further the study of gender politics.\" The causes of the toleration - in law or in practice - of sexual violence inside marriage are complex; lack of understanding of the concept of consent and coercion due to lack of sexual education and public discussion about sexuality are often cited as causes of sexual abuse in general; but there has been criticism towards the idea that sex education about consent, in and of itself, is sufficient.\n\nThe countries which choose to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the first legally binding instrument in Europe in the field of violence against women, are bound by its provisions to ensure that non-consensual sexual acts committed against a spouse or partner are illegal. The convention came into force in August 2014. In its explanatory report (para 219) it acknowledges the long tradition of toleration, \"de jure\" or \"de facto\", of marital rape and domestic violence:\n\nCountries which were early to criminalize marital rape include the Soviet Union (1922), Poland (1932), Czechoslovakia (1950), some other members of the Communist Bloc, Sweden (1965), and Norway (1971). Slovenia, then a republic within federal Yugoslavia, criminalized marital rape in 1977. The Israeli Supreme Court affirmed that marital rape is a crime in a 1980 decision, citing law based on the Talmud (at least 6th century). Criminalization in Australia began with the state of New South Wales in 1981, followed by all other states from 1985 to 1992. Several formerly British-ruled countries followed suit: Canada (1983), New Zealand (1985), and Ireland (1990).\n\nMarital rape was criminalized in Austria in 1989 (and in 2004 it became a state offense meaning it can be prosecuted by the state even in the absence of a complaint from the spouse, with procedures being similar to stranger rape). In Switzerland marital rape became a crime in 1992 (and became a state offense in 2004). In Spain, the Supreme Court ruled in 1992 that sex within marriage must be consensual and that sexuality in marriage must be understood in light of the principle of the freedom to make one's own decisions with respect to sexual activity; in doing so it upheld the conviction of a man who had been found guilty of raping his wife by a lower court.\n\nIn Europe, Finland outlawed marital rape in 1994. The case of domestic violence in Finland has been the subject of interest and discussion, because Finland is otherwise considered a country where women have very advanced rights in regard to \"public\" life and participation in the public sphere (jobs, opportunities, etc.). The country has been made the object of international criticism in regard to its approach towards violence against women. A 2010 Eurobarometer survey on European attitudes on violence against women showed that victim blaming attitudes are much more common in Finland than in other countries: 74% of Finns blamed \"the provocative behaviour of women\" for violence against women, much higher than in other countries (for instance many countries that are popularly believed to be among the most patriarchal of Europe were significantly less likely to agree with that assertion: 33% in Spain, 46% in Ireland, 47% in Italy).\n\nBelgium was early to criminalize marital rape. In 1979, the Brussels Court of Appeal recognized marital rape and found that a husband who used serious violence to coerce his wife into having sex against her wishes was guilty of the criminal offense of rape. The logic of the court was that, although the husband did have a 'right' to sex with his wife, he could not use violence to claim it, as Belgian laws did not allow people to obtain their rights by violence. In 1989 laws were amended, the definition of rape was broadened, and marital rape is treated the same as other forms of rape.\n\nIn Ireland, the Criminal Law (Rape) Act, 1981 defined rape as \"unlawful sexual intercourse\" without consent; an attempt to explicitly include spouses within the definition was rejected by the Fianna Fáil government. Seán Doherty, the Minister for Justice, suggested that the courts might allow a charge of rape in some cases, and that various assault charges might be prosecuted in others. A 1987 discussion paper by the Law Reform Commission stated, \"In the absence of Irish decisions on the topic, the present law cannot be stated with any great degree of confidence. It would appear, however, that to the extent that the marital rape exemption exists, it is confined to circumstances where the spouses are cohabiting and there are no separation proceedings in being, or even, perhaps, in contemplation.\" The paper's call to abolish any marital exemption was \"on the whole, generally welcomed, although some misgivings were expressed as to whether it might not lead to fabricated complaints and unwarranted intrusions in the marital relationship.\" The Criminal Law (Rape) (Amendment) Act, 1990 removed the word \"unlawful\" from the 1981 definition of rape, and abolished \"any rule of law by virtue of which a husband cannot be guilty of the rape of his wife\". The first two convictions were in 2006 (upon retrial) and 2016.\n\nIn France, in 1990, following a case where a man had tortured and raped his wife, the Court of Cassation authorized prosecution of spouses for rape or sexual assault. In 1992 the Court convicted a man of the rape of his wife, stating that the presumption that spouses have consented to sexual acts that occur within marriage is only valid when the contrary is not proven. In 1994, Law 94-89 criminalized marital rape; a second law, passed 4 April 2006, makes rape by a partner (including in unmarried relationships, marriages, and civil unions) an aggravating circumstance in prosecuting rape.\n\nGermany outlawed spousal rape in 1997, which is later than other developed countries. Female ministers and women's rights activists lobbied for this law for over 25 years. Before 1997, the definition of rape was: \"Whoever compels a woman to have extramarital intercourse with him, or with a third person, by force or the threat of present danger to life or limb, shall be punished by not less than two years’ imprisonment\". In 1997 there were changes to the rape law, broadening the definition, making it gender-neutral, and removing the marital exemption. Before, marital rape could only be prosecuted as \"Causing bodily harm\" (Section 223 of the German Criminal Code), \"Insult\" (Section 185 of the German Criminal Code) and \"Using threats or force to cause a person to do, suffer or omit an act\" (Nötigung, Section 240 of the German Criminal Code) which carried lower sentences and were rarely prosecuted.\n\nBefore a new Criminal Code came into force in 2003, the law on rape in Bosnia and Herzegovina also contained a statutory exemption, and read: \"Whoever coerces a female not his wife into sexual intercourse by force or threat of imminent attack upon her life or body or the life or body of a person close to her, shall be sentenced to a prison term of one to ten years\". In Portugal also, before 1982, there was a statutory exemption.\n\nMarital rape was criminalized in Serbia in 2002; before that date rape was legally defined as forced sexual intercourse outside of marriage. The same was true in Hungary until 1997.\n\nIn 1994, in Judgment no. 223/94 V, 1994, the Court of Appeal of Luxembourg confirmed the applicability of the provisions of the Criminal Code regarding rape to marital rape.\n\nMarital rape was made illegal in the Netherlands in 1991. The legislative changes provided a new definition for rape in 1991, which removed the marital exemption, and also made the crime gender-neutral; before 1991 the legal definition of rape was a man forcing, by violence or threat of thereof, a woman to engage in sexual intercourse outside of marriage.\n\nIn Italy the law on rape, \"violenza carnale\" ('carnal violence', as it was termed) did not contain a statutory exemption, but was, as elsewhere, understood as inapplicable in the context of marriage. Although Italy has a reputation of a male dominated traditional society, it was quite early to accept that the rape law covers forced sex in marriage too: in 1976 in \"Sentenza n. 12857 del 1976\", the Supreme Court ruled that \"the spouse who compels the other spouse to carnal knowledge by violence or threats commits the crime of carnal violence\" (\"commette il delitto di violenza carnale il coniuge che costringa con violenza o minaccia l’altro coniuge a congiunzione carnale\").\n\nCyprus criminalized marital rape in 1994. Marital rape was made illegal in Macedonia in 1996. In Croatia marital rape was criminalized in 1998.\n\nIn 2006, Greece enacted \"Law 3500/2006\", entitled \"For combating domestic violence\", which punishes marital rape. It entered into force on 24 October 2006. This legislation also prohibits numerous other forms of violence within marriage and cohabiting relations, and various other forms of abuse of women.\n\nLiechtenstein made marital rape illegal in 2001.\n\nIn Colombia, marital rape was criminalized in 1996, in Chile in 1999.\n\nThailand outlawed marital rape in 2007. The new reforms were enacted amid strong controversy and were opposed by many. One opponent of the law was legal scholar Taweekiet Meenakanit who voiced his opposition to the legal reforms. He also opposed the making of rape a gender neutral offense. Meenakanit claimed that allowing a husband to file a rape charge against his wife is \"abnormal logic\" and that wives would refuse to divorce or put their husband in jail since many Thai wives are dependent on their husbands.\n\nPapua New Guinea criminalized marital rape in 2003. Namibia outlawed marital rape in 2000.\n\nSection 375 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) considers the forced sex in marriages as a crime only when the wife is below age 15. Thus, marital rape is not a criminal offense under the IPC. Marital rape victims have to take recourse to the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 (PWDVA). The PWDVA, which came into force in 2006, outlaws marital rape. However, it offers only a civil remedy for the offence.\n\nRecent countries to criminalize marital rape include Zimbabwe (2001), Turkey (2005), Cambodia (2005), Liberia (2006), Nepal (2006),\nMauritius (2007), Ghana (2007), Malaysia (2007), Thailand (2007), Rwanda (2009), Suriname (2009), Nicaragua (2012), Sierra Leone (2012), South Korea (2013), Bolivia (2013), Samoa (2013), Tonga (1999/2013). Human rights observers have criticized a variety of countries for failing to effectively prosecute marital rape once it has been criminalized. South Africa, which criminalized in 1993, saw its first conviction for marital rape in 2012.\n\nThe legal history of marital rape laws in the United States is a long and complex one, that spans over several decades. Traditional rape laws in the US defined rape as forced sexual intercourse by a male with a \"female not his wife\", making it clear that the statutes did not apply to married couples. The 1962 Model Penal Code stated that \"A male who has sexual intercourse with a female not his wife is guilty of rape if: (...)\".\n\nThe criminalization of marital rape in the United States started in the mid-1970s and by 1993 marital rape was a crime in all 50 states, under at least one section of the sexual offense codes. The earlier laws of the 1970s often indicated that marital rape charges could only be brought about if the husband and wife were no longer living together. The case in the United States that first challenged this cohabitation clause was \"Oregon v. Rideout\" in 1978. During the 1990s, most states differentiated between the way marital rape and non-marital rape were treated. These differences were visible through shorter penalties, taking into account whether or not violence was used, and allowing for shorter reporting periods. (Bergen, 1996; Russell, 1990). \nThe laws have continued to change and evolve, with most states reforming their legislation in the 21st century, in order to bring marital rape laws in line with non-marital rape, but even today there remain differences in some states. With the removal, in 2005, of the requirement of a higher level of violence from the law of Tennessee, which now allows for marital rape in Tennessee to be treated like any other type of rape, South Carolina remains the only US state with a law requiring excessive force/violence (the force or violence used or threatened must be of a \"high and aggravated nature\").\n\nIn most states the criminalization has occurred by the removal of the exemptions from the general rape law by the legislature; or by the courts striking down the exemptions as unconstitutional. In some states, however, the legislature has created a distinct crime of spousal rape. This is, for example, the case in California, where there are two different criminal offenses: Rape (Article 261) and Spousal Rape (Article 262).\n\nAlthough the issue of marital rape was highlighted by feminists in the 19th century, and was also deplored by thinkers such as John Stuart Mill and Bertrand Russell (see above section 'Feminist critique in the 19th century'), it was not until the 1970s that this issue was raised at a political level. The late 1970s also saw the enactment of Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act of 1976, which provided the first statutory definition of rape (prior to this rape was an offense at common law). The Criminal Law Revision Committee in their 1984 Report on Sexual Offences rejected the idea that the offense of rape should be extended to marital relations; writing the following:\nThe Committee also expressed more general views on domestic violence arguing that \"Violence occurs in some marriages but the wives do not always wish the marital tie to be severed\" and reiterated the point that domestic incidents without physical injury would generally be outside the scope of the law: \"Some of us consider that the criminal law should keep out of marital relationships between cohabiting partners—especially the marriage bed—except where injury arises, when there are other offences which can be charged.\"\nFive years later, in Scotland, the High Court of Justiciary took a different view, abolishing marital immunity, in \"S. v. H.M. Advocate\", 1989. The same would happen in England and Wales in 1991, in \"R v R\" (see below). Very soon after this, in Australia, at the end of 1991, in \"R v L\", the High Court of Australia would rule the same, ruling that if the common law exemption had ever been part of the Australian law, it no longer was (by that time most Australian states and territories had already abolished their exemptions by statutory law).\n\nThe marital rape exemption was abolished in England and Wales in 1991 by the Appellate Committee of the House of Lords, in the case of \"R v R\". It had been promulgated in 1736 in Matthew Hale’s \"History of the Pleas of the Crown\" (see above).\nThe first attempted prosecution of a husband for the rape of his wife was \"R v Clarke\". Rather than try to argue directly against Hale’s logic, the court held that consent in this instance had been revoked by an order of the court for non-cohabitation. It was the first of a number of cases in which the courts found reasons not to apply the exemption, notably \"R v O’Brien\" (the obtaining of decree nisi), \"R v Steele\" (an undertaking by the husband to the court not to molest the wife) and \"R v Roberts\" (the existence of a formal separation agreement).\nThere are at least four recorded instances of a husband successfully relying on the exemption in England and Wales. The first was \"R v Miller\", where it was held that the wife had not legally revoked her consent despite having presented a divorce petition. \"R v Kowalski\" was followed by \"R v Sharples\", and the fourth occurred in 1991 in the case of \"R v J\", a judgment made after the first instance decision of the Crown Court in \"R v R\" but before the decision of the House of Lords that was to abolish the exemption. In \"Miller\", \"Kowalski\" and \"R v J\" the husbands were instead convicted of assault. The \"R v Kowalski\" case involved, among other acts, an instance of non-consensual oral sex. For this, the husband was convicted of indecent assault, as the court ruled that his wife's \"implied consent\" by virtue of marriage extended only to vaginal intercourse, not to other acts such as fellatio. [At that time the offense of 'rape' dealt only with vaginal intercourse]\n\nIn \"R v Sharples\" in 1990, it was alleged that the husband had raped his wife in 1989. Despite the fact that the wife had obtained a Family Protection Order before the alleged rape, the judge refused to accept that rape could legally occur, concluding that the Family Protection Order had not removed the wife's implied consent, ruling that: \"it cannot be inferred that by obtaining the order in these terms the wife had withdrawn her consent to sexual intercourse\".\n\"R v R\" in 1991 was the first occasion where the marital rights exemption had been appealed as far as the House of Lords, and it followed the trio of cases since 1988 where the marital rights exemption was upheld. The leading judgment, unanimously approved, was given by Lord Keith of Kinkel. He stated that the contortions being performed in the lower courts in order to avoid applying the marital rights exemption were indicative of the absurdity of the rule, and held, agreeing with earlier judgments in Scotland and in the Court of Appeal in \"R v R\", that “the fiction of implied consent has no useful purpose to serve today in the law of rape” and that the marital rights exemption was a “common law fiction” which had never been a true rule of English law. R’s appeal was accordingly dismissed, and he was convicted of the rape of his wife.\n\nBy 1991, when the exemption was removed, the Law Commission in its \"Working Paper\" of 1990 was already supporting the abolition of the exemption, a view reiterated in their \"Final Report\" that was published in 1992; and international moves in this direction were by now common. Therefore, the result of the \"R v R\" case was welcomed. But, while the removal of the exemption itself was not controversial, the way through which this was done was; since the change was not made through usual statutory modification. The cases of \"SW v UK\" and \"CR v UK\" arose in response to \"R v R\"; in which the applicants (convicted of rape and attempted rape of the wives) appealed to the European Court of Human Rights arguing that their convictions were a retrospective application of the law in breach of Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights. They claimed that at the time of the rape there was a common law exemption in force, therefore their convictions were \"post facto\". Their case was not successful, with their arguments being rejected by the European Court of Human Rights, which ruled that the criminalization of marital rape had become a reasonably foreseeable development of the criminal law in the light of the evolution of social norms; and that the Article 7 does not prohibit the gradual judicial evolution of the interpretation of an offense, provided the result is consistent with the essence of the offense and that it could be reasonably foreseen.\nA new definition of the offense of 'rape' was created in 1994 by the section 142 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, providing a broader definition that included anal sex; and an even broader definition was created by the Sexual Offences Act 2003, including oral sex. The law on rape does not—and did not ever since the removal of the marital exemption in 1991—provide for any different punishment based on the relation between parties. However, in 1993, in \"R v W 1993 14 Cr App R (S) 256\", the court ruled: \"It should not be thought a different and lower scale automatically attaches to the rape of a wife by her husband. All will depend upon the circumstances of the case. Where the parties are cohabiting and the husband insisted upon intercourse against his wife's will but without violence or threats this may reduce sentence. Where the conduct is gross and involves threats or violence the relationship will be of little significance.\"\nAt the time of \"R v R\", rape in Northern Ireland was a crime at common law. Northern Ireland common law is similar to that of England and Wales, and partially derives from the same sources; so any (alleged) exemption from its rape law was also removed by \"R v R\". In March 2000, a Belfast man was convicted for raping his wife, in the first case of its kind in Northern Ireland.\nUntil 28 July 2003, rape in Northern Ireland remained solely an offense at common law that could only be committed by a man against a woman only as vaginal intercourse. Between 28 July 2003 and 2 February 2009 rape was defined by the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 as \"any act of non-consensual intercourse by a man with a person\", but the common law offense continued to exist, and oral sex remained excluded. On 2 February 2009 the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 came into force, abolishing the common law offense of rape, and providing a definition of rape that is similar to that of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 of England and Wales. The Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland has the same policy for marital rape as for other forms of rape; it states in its \"Policy for Prosecuting Cases of Rape\" document that: \"The Policy applies to all types of rape, including marital and relationship rape, acquaintance and stranger rape, both against male and female victims\".\n\nThe criminalization of marital rape in Australia occurred in all states and territories, by both statutory and case law, from the late 1970s to the early 1990s.\nIn Australia, the offense of rape was based on the English common law offense of rape, being generally understood as \"carnal knowledge\", outside of marriage, of a female against her will. Some Australian states left rape to be defined at common law, but others had statutory definitions, with these definitions having marital exemptions. The definition of rape in Queensland, for instance, was: \"Any person who has carnal knowledge of a woman or girl, not his wife, without her consent, or with her consent, if the consent is obtained by force, or by means of threats or intimidation of any kind, or by fear of bodily harm, or by means of false and fraudulent representations as to the nature of the act, or, in the case of a married woman, by personating her husband, is guilty of a crime, which is called rape.\" Discussions of criminalization of marital rape were already taking place in the late 1970s in Queensland, but it was not until 1989 that it was criminalized.\n\nThe first Australian state to deal with marital rape was South Australia. The changes came in 1976, but these were only partly removing the exemption. The \"Criminal Law Consolidation Act Amendment Act 1976\" read: \"No person shall, by reason only of the fact that he is married to some other person, be presumed to have consented to sexual intercourse with that other person\". Nevertheless, the laws did not go as far as equating marital with non-marital rape; the law required violence, or other aggravating circumstances, in order for an act of marital intercourse to be rape; which remained law until 1992. The first Australian jurisdiction to completely remove the marital exemption was New South Wales in 1981. The same happened in Western Australia, Victoria, and ACT in 1985; and Tasmania in 1987. In 1991, in \"R v L\", the High Court of Australia ruled that if the common law exemption had ever been part of the Australian law, it no longer was.\n\nIn a variety of cultures, marriage after a rape of an unmarried woman has been treated historically as a \"resolution\" to the rape, that is, a \"reparatory marriage\". Although laws that exonerate the perpetrator if he marries his victim after the rape are often associated with the Middle East, such laws were very common around the world until the second half of the 20th century. For instance, as late as 1997, 14 Latin American countries had such laws, although most of these countries have now abolished them.\n\nWhether women were forced to marry their rapist, or the marriage was concluded before the violence began, many victims remain in chronically violent relationships. While there are many reasons for which victims of marital rape remain in their marriages, one important reason is that divorce may be hard to obtain and/or is stigmatized (Kwiatowski, 70). Cross-culturally, one of the barriers that keep victims within their marriages is the shame and guilt they feel surrounding marital rape (Bergen, 2016), or general taboos around sexuality(Kwiatkowski, 2016) (Torres, 2016). Lastly, some victims do not categorize their abuse as marital rape in order to minimize the violence they endure. This is used as a defense mechanism so they can continue to endure their abuse (Menjívar, 2016).\n\nThe earliest study in the Western World attempting to survey marital rape was an unpublished study by Joan Seites in the spring of 1975. Seites sent questionnaires to 40 rape-crisis centers from a list compiled by the Center for Women Policy Studies (Washington, DC). 16 Centers completed questionnaire for a response rate of 40%. Of the 3,709 reported calls dealing with rape and attempted rape received by the 16 centers, 12 calls dealt with marital rape (0.3%). Because rape-crisis centers did not always record the relationships of the callers, whether the 12 reported calls fully represent the number of married relationships cannot be certainly known.\n\nResearcher Richard Giles conducted research through in-depth interviews on violence between husbands and wives in a series of three studies between 1974 and 1976. Although the questions asked in the course of the interviews did not specifically pertain to the subject of marital rape, a subsequent analysis of the transcriptions of the interviews identified 4 women who discussed sex-related violence which might be viewed as instances of either attempted or completed marital rape. In all 4 cases, however, there was no instance a wife actually forced into having sex, although this may have been to avoid the possibility of force. Although the four women did not view themselves as having been raped, Giles raised the question of whether engaging in the sex act, as an act itself, constitutes violence.\n\nIn 1982 Diana E. H. Russell, a feminist writer and activist, conducted the seminal study on marital rape. Her study surveyed a total of 930 women from San Francisco, California (50% non-response rate, non-English speaking Asian women were specifically excluded as non-reliable respondents), of whom 644 were married, divorced, or who self-identified as having a husband although not married. Six of these women (1%) self-assessed that they had been raped by their husbands, ex-husband, or de facto husbands. The survey interviewers, however, classified 74 (12%) of these women as having been raped. Of the 286 non-married women in the sample, 228 (80%) were classified by the survey interviewers as having been raped. Russell found that when repeated instances of rape as classified by the survey interviewers, by husbands or ex-husbands, over the entire course of the marriage are included, these account for 38% of all rape instances, in comparison to the remaining 62% occurring in non-marital instances.\n\nDavid Finkelhor and Kersti Yllo published a study in 1985 on marital rape that drew on a scientifically-selected area probability sample from the metropolitan Boston area of 323 women who were either married or previously married who had a child living with them between the ages of six and fourteen. The study found that of the women who were married the instance of sexual relations through physical force or the threat thereof was 3%.\n\nIn 1994, Patricia Easteal, then Senior Criminologist at the Australian Institute of Criminology, published the results of survey on sexual assault in many settings. The respondents had all been victims of numerous forms of sexual assault. Of the victim sub-sample, 10.4% had been raped by husbands or \"de facto\" husbands, with a further 2.3% raped by estranged husbands/\"de factos\". \n\nIn 2002 Basile published research intended to address the lack of a nationally probability sample to-date that measured intimate sexual coercion faced by married women. Data were collected in a 1997 national poll by a random telephone survey of 1,108 residents in the continental U.S. of persons 18 years old or older. The survey had a 50% response rate. Of the 1,108 respondents, the 506 men were excluded from any inquiry into unwanted sexual experiences, leaving 602 (54%) women respondents for the study. 398 (66%) women indicated no unwanted sexual relations (their marital status is not given), and 204 (34%) women responded as having engaged in unwanted sex after being subject to some level of sexual coercion; types of sexual coercion included receiving ‘a gift’, ‘ a nice dinner’, ‘a back rub’, ‘kissing’, etc. through threatened harm and physical coercion. Of this group, a sub-sample of 120 (59%) were married, of which 9% responded as having been subject to physical force.\n\nNotwithstanding the six scientific studies specifically on marital rape by husbands in the Western world cited above, not one gives an estimation of a rate of marital rape. The first study, by Giles, does attempt to calculate a rate, but acknowledges that the study was not so designed, and the result (0%) may not be valid. The next study by Russell which is often cited as the seminal study, conflates ex-husbands and those whom, though unmarried, are counted as putative husbands or de facto “husbands.” While the data would allow estimation of a marital rape rate, it is not given. Moreover, the study's design classifies 80% of non-married women as having been raped is vastly inconsistent with other studies. The Yllo and Finkelhor 1985 study is not a nationally representative sample, i.e., limited to Boston, of women who are divorced or married, and who also have a child living with them between the ages of six and fourteen. The study did not separately estimate rates for claims of rape and situations deemed rape-threatening. In the Giles study, once threatening situations are distinguished, the findings differed significantly. Easteal's study restricts estimation of prevalence to within only the sub-sample of victims, even though the estimation could similarly be applied to the population. Basile study, which purportedly was to address the hitherto lack of a nationally probability sample regarding marital rape, omits the number of married women in the sample, thereby precluding the estimation of rape reports by married women in the sample population. The lack of such estimations make inter-study comparisons difficult, and citation of national statistics subject to the qualification made in the studies.\n\nThe prevalence of marital rape is difficult to assess, especially outside the Western World. Discussing sexual matters in many cultures is taboo. One problem with studies on marital rape is that the Western concept of consent is not understood in many parts of the world. Because many societies operate on social norms which create a dual system of sexual morality—one for sexual intercourse that is \"marital\" which is seen as an obligation that cannot be refused, and \"extra-marital\", which is seen as wrong (or illicit/illegal). Issues of consent are poorly understood, especially by young wives (which are often young girls who do not have a proper understanding of sexual rights). For instance in an interview in a study for the World Health Organization, a woman from Bangladesh who described being hit by her husband and forced to have sex said that: \"\"I thought this is only natural. This is the way a husband behaves\".\" Research has, nevertheless, associated specific regions with a very high level of violence, including sexual violence, against women by husbands/partners. An example of such a place is Ethiopia.\n\nThe prevalence of marital rape depends on the particularly legal, national, and cultural context. In 1999, the World Health Organization conducted a study on violence against women in Tajikistan, surveying 900 women above the age of 14 in three districts of the country and found that 47% of married women reported having been forced to have sex by their husband. In Turkey 35.6% of women have experienced marital rape sometimes and 16.3% often.\n\nRape by a spouse, partner or ex-partner is more often associated with physical violence. A nine-nation study within the European Union found that current or ex-partners were the perpetrators of around 25% of all sexual assaults, and that violence was more common in assaults by ex-partners (50% of the time) and partners (40%) than in assaults by strangers or recent acquaintances (25%). \n\nAttributing the effects of marital rape in research is problematic as it is nearly impossible to find a large enough sample of spouses to study who have experienced sexual violence but have not also been physically assaulted by their spouse. Marital rape can spread sexually transmitted diseases and HIV, adversely affecting a victim's physical and psychological health. In sub-Saharan countries with very high prevalence rates of HIV, such as Lesotho, instances of multiple partnerships and marital rape exacerbate the spread of HIV.\n\nWhile rape by a stranger is highly traumatic, it is typically a one-time event and is clearly understood as rape. In the case of rape by a spouse or long term sexual partner, the history of the relationship affects the victim's reactions. There is research showing that marital rape can be more emotionally and physically damaging than rape by a stranger. Marital rape may occur as part of an abusive relationship. Trauma from the rape adds to the effect of other abusive acts or abusive and demeaning talk. Furthermore, marital rape is rarely a one-time event, but a repeated if not frequent occurrence. Whether it takes place once or is part of an established pattern of domestic violence, trauma from rape has serious long term consequences for victims regardless of whether the assault is prosecuted or not.\n\nUnlike other forms of rape, where the victim can remove themselves from the company of the rapist and never interact with them again, in the case of marital rape the victim often has no choice but to continue living with their spouse: in many parts of the world divorce is very difficult to obtain and is also highly stigmatized. The researchers Finkelhor and Yllö remarked in their 1985 metropolitan Boston area study that:\n\nForced marriage and child marriage are prevalent in many parts of the world, especially in parts of Asia and Africa. A forced marriage is a marriage where one or both participants are married without their freely given consent; while a child marriage is a marriage where one or both parties are younger than 18. These types of marriages are associated with a higher rate of domestic violence, including marital rape. These forms of marriage are most common in traditional societies which have no laws against sexual violence in marriage, and where it is also very difficult to leave a marriage. Incidents taking place in some of these countries (such as Yemen) have received international attention. The World Health Organization states, under the rubric \"Customary forms of sexual violence\", (pp. 156):\n\nOne type of forced marriages occurs in Guatemala (called robadas) and Mexico (called rapto). Robadas refers to \"…abductions, in which women are ‘taken’ during the period of courtship, sometimes semivoluntarily but other times by force, by a suitor who wants to start a marital relationship with them\" (Menjívar, 2016). Rapto refers to \"…an abduction for sexual or erotic purposes or marriage\" (Bovarnik, 2007). Following the abduction, marriage is often encouraged to maintain the family honor (Bovarnik, 2007).\n\nIn these types of forced marriages, the marital union begins with the man's intense sense of control over the woman, combined with the understanding that the wife is the possession of her husband (Menjívar, 2016). This foundation of marriage had direct implications for sexual violence within the marriage. In reference to the practice of robadas, Cecilia Menjívar (2016) writes, \"…unions that start out from the violent act of a robada can continue to breed violence, abuse, and mistreatment in the union.\" In addition, women victims of robadas often face embarrassment and blame, despite the act usually being initiated by male perpetrators (Menjívar, 2016). Women are blamed for disobeying their parents or not resisting their abductor strong enough (Menjívar, 2016). This notion of blaming the woman also occurs in reference to rapto in rural Mexico. Silvie Bovarnik (2007) writes, \"In many cases, men and women alike look for the fault of responsibility in women's behavior due to traditional conceptualisations of women as ‘pillars of honour.’\" Abduction and rape compromises a woman's moral integrity, and therefore her honor (Bovarnik, 2007). Many of these women, who were given little choice in their marriage, are left to live with their abusers.\n\nThe historical (and present day in jurisdictions where it still applies) immunity of husbands to have sexual relations with their wives without consent was not the only marital immunity in regard to abuse; immunity from the use of violence was (and still is in some countries) common—in the form of a husband's right to use \"moderate chastisement\" against a 'disobedient' wife. In the US, many states, especially Southern ones, maintained this immunity until the mid-19th century. For instance, in 1824, in \"Calvin Bradley v. the State\", the Mississippi Supreme Court uphold this right of the husband; ruling as follows:\n\nAlthough by the late 19th century courts were unanimously agreeing that husbands no longer had the right to inflict \"chastisement\" on their wives, the public policy was set at ignoring incidents deemed not 'serious enough' for legal intervention. In 1874, the Supreme Court of North Carolina ruled:\n\nToday, husbands continue to be immune from prosecution in case of certain forms of physical abuse against their wives in some countries. For instance, in Iraq husbands have a legal right to \"punish\" their wives. The criminal code states that there is no crime if an act is committed while exercising a legal right. Examples of legal rights include: \"The punishment of a wife by her husband, the disciplining by parents and teachers of children under their authority within certain limits prescribed by law or by custom\". In 2010, the United Arab Emirates's Supreme Court ruled that a man has the right to physically discipline his wife and children as long as he does not leave physical marks.\n\nAlthough most research is focused on wives as victims of marital rape, husbands experience marital rape as well. Little research exists focusing on the specific situation of non-consensual wife-to-husband sexual relations, but evidence suggests that 13%-16% of men are victims of assault by marital or cohabitating partners in their lifetime (Tjaden and Thoennes, 2000). Research conducted by Morse (1995), Straus (1977-1978), and Straus and Gelles (1985) suggest that men and women have nearly the same annual rates of victimization of violence by a marital or cohabitating partner (Tjaden and Thoennes, 2000). One study that looked at lifetime experiences of marital and cohabitating partner violence found nearly equal rates of victimization among men and women (Tjaden and Thoennes, 2000). However, these statistics convey the larger topic of partner violence and do not reflect rates of marital rape.\n\nGiven that same-sex marriage is a relatively new concept, and only minimally accepted globally, little research has explored marital rape in same-sex relationships. More research must be conducted to look at these relationships within the marital context.\n\nLegally, governments have direct impact on the occurrence of marital rape. The state \"…engages in the definition, monitoring, and sanctioning of appropriate behavior\" (Torres, 2016). This can play out in criminalizing or not criminalizing marital rape and therefore deeming what is appropriate. Catharine MacKinnon argues that rape laws in male dominated societies exist to regulate access to women from a male perspective, not to protect women's right to freely decide whether to engage in sexual intercourse or not. Whatever the reason behind such laws, even when state laws have criminalized marital rape, state institutions perpetuate it. For example, although marital rape has been criminalized throughout the United States, the original laws of the 1980s and 1990s treated marital rape differently from non-marital rape, and in some states this continues to be the case even today (see Marital rape (United States law)). As these laws exemplify, marital rape is seen as somehow less reprehensible than rape outside of marriage (Bergen, 2016). Even when marital rape is prosecuted successfully, courts often pass shorter sentences - even if the law itself does not stipulate this - based on the view that sexual violation is less serious if it occurs within marriage. Following this same understanding, British courts often pass lower sentences to marital rape than to other cases of rape because it is believed that it causes less harm to the victim (Mandal, 2014).\n\nPolice departments are another state institution that treats domestic violence differently than other forms of violence. Police often label domestic abuse calls as low priority, respond slower, and focus on what provoked the abuse rather than the violent actions of the perpetrator (Schelong, 1994). Also, they often act as mediators in the situation because they may feel that domestic violence is a family matter and therefore not their business (Schelong, 1994).\n\nWhile government institutional influences are vast, marital rape is often sustained by cultural ideologies. According to Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin, the issue of sexual violence, including within marriage, has not been a political spectrum issue - that is a left wing \"vs\". right wing issue - but a general ubiquitous part of the culture, \"The Left and the Right have consistently had different positions on rape; but neither has acknowledged rape from the point of view of the women who experienced it.\n\nFor many cultures, ideas of marital rape seem often foreign imposed and contradict the belief that such matters should be dealt with privately rather than by the government (Smith, 2016). In other instances, notably in the country of India, members of the government have spoken publicly that marital rape cannot be recognized in their culture. The Indian Minister of State for Home Affairs, Haribhai Parthibhai Chaudhary, stated in April 2015, \"The concept of marital rape, as understood internationally, cannot be suitably applied in the Indian context due to various factors, including levels of education, illiteracy, poverty myriad social customs and values, religious beliefs, [and] the mindset of the society to treat the marriage as sacrament\" (Torres, 2016).\nFor many other countries, the concept of marital rape is itself an oxymoron (Smith, 2016). Women in these cultures largely \"…share the cultural logic that marital rape is a contradiction in terms…\" while men simultaneously \"…see women's sexual consent in marriage as taken for granted…\" and therefore \"…reject the very concept of marital rape\" (Smith, 2016).\n\nThe act of imposing sexual intercourse against the will of the wife is often not identified as morally wrong, and so it is difficult to attempt to stop the practice, \"Often, men who coerce a spouse into a sexual act believe their actions are legitimate because they are married to the woman.\" (WHO, pp. 149). This idea that sexual intercourse in marriage is 'legitimate' and so it cannot be illegal even when forced, is in some parts of the world fueled by the custom of bride price: its paying is seen as earning the man the right to sexual and reproductive control of his wife. UN Women recommended the abolition of giving bride price, and stated that: \"Legislation should [...] State that a perpetrator of domestic violence, including marital rape, cannot use the fact that he paid bride price as a defense to a domestic violence charge. (pp. 25) \"\n\nYoung women from various settings in South Asia explained in surveys that even if they felt discomfort and didn't want to have sex, they accepted their husbands' wishes and submitted, fearing that otherwise they would be beaten. In many developing countries it is believed—by both men and women—that a husband is entitled to sex any time he demands it, and that if his wife refuses him, he has the right to use force. These women, most of them either illiterate or very poorly educated, are married at very young ages (in Bangladesh, for example, according to statistics from 2005, 45% of women then aged between 25–29 had been married by the age of 15), and depend on their husbands for their entire life. This situation leaves women with very little sexual autonomy. The notion that women are sexually autonomous and therefore have the ability to give or retract consent is not universally understood. Gabriella Torres writes, \"The degree to which women and men view themselves as unique social beings with a full ability to make choices and suffer consequences varies by culture\" (Torres, 2016). As a result, in cultures where women are not considered autonomous, they are not in a position to refuse sex: they have to choose between unwanted sex and being subjected to violence; or between unwanted sex and being abandoned by their husbands and ending up living in abject poverty.\n\nAccording to Sheila Jeffreys, in Western countries, \"sexual liberation\" ideologies have aggravated the problem of male sexual entitlement, leading to women submitting to unwanted sex not only due to physical force or illegal threat, but due to societal pressure: \"The force which has operated on them [women] all their lives and continues to operate on them within marriages and relationships remains largely invisible. [...] Such forces include the massive industry of sexology, sex therapy, sex advice literature, all of which make women feel guilty and inadequate for any unwillingness to fulfill a man's sexual desires.\"\n\nThe prohibition of rape serves other purposes, such as protection of the rights of male relatives or husband, enforcing of religious laws against sex outside of marriage, or preservation of a woman's respect and reputation in society. Under such ideologies it is difficult to accept the concept of marital rape. Richard A. Posner writes that, \"Traditionally, rape was the offense of depriving a father or husband of a valuable asset — his wife's chastity or his daughter's virginity\". In many countries of the world, including Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Jordan, the severity of the legal punishment for rape depends on whether the victim was a virgin. Rhonda Copleon writes that, \"Where rape is treated as a crime against honor, the honor of women is called into question and virginity or chastity is often a precondition.\"\n\nIn many cultures, marriages are still arranged for the purpose of procreation, property, and consolidation of extended family relations, often including a bride price or a dowry. In such situations, marriages are pre-arranged as an affair between families and clans. In some cultures, refusal of an arranged marriage is often a cause of an honor killing, because the family which has prearranged the marriage risks disgrace if the marriage does not proceed. Since consent to marriage is irrelevant, it follows that consent to marital sex is also irrelevant. Similarly, a woman attempting to obtain a divorce or separation without the consent of the husband/extended family can also be a trigger for honor killings. In cultures where marriages are arranged and goods are often exchanged between families, a woman's desire to seek a divorce is often viewed as an insult to the men who negotiated the deal.\n\nHowever, the fact that people in developing countries are increasingly selecting marriage partners by whether they are in love – a much more Western world view – does not necessarily improve the situation. These types of marriages, especially in southeastern Nigeria, are putting women in more difficult positions: if one chooses to marry based on love against their family's wishes, admitting violence in the relationship is a disgrace because it means admitting that one made the wrong judgement (Smith, 2016).\n\nMost of the Western World has been strongly influenced by Judeo-Christian Bible. The paradisaical narrative of man and woman in Genesis establishes a foundation of marriage: \nThis doctrine is repeated in the Gospel by Jesus, but with the added conclusion “so then they are no longer two, but one flesh\". The same doctrine is continued in the Epistles in the writings of the Apostle Paul. \n\nIt is further explicated by the Apostle Paul, writing, \n\nOn the standing of each party to determine how this biblical principle--denial of conjugal relations--was to be effected was codified as an ecclesiastical canon in 280 A.D. by St. Dionysian of Alexandria: \"Persons who are self-sufficient and married ought to be judges of themselves.\" The canon was given ecumenical application by the Sixth Ecumenical Council in 691 A.D. Ecclesiastical canons continued to adjudicate marital issues well into the modern era until all but entirely superseded by the civil courts. \n\nThe Christian religion teaches that pre-marital sex is fornication, and sexual relations by a married person with someone other than his or her spouse is adultery, both of which are sins, while sex within marriage is a duty. This concept of 'conjugal sexual rights' has the purpose to prevent sin (in the form of adultery and temptation) as well as to enable procreation.\n\nThe above is interpreted by some religious figures as to render marital rape an impossibility. However, not all religious figures hold this view.\n\nFurther, Pentecostal Christianity prescribes gender expectations for married individuals that \"…reestablish a patriarchal bargain…\" in which \"…women acquiesce to men's authority in return for certain kinds of support\" (Smith, 2016). Husbands are expected to provide for the family, and in return, wives are to submit to their husband's authority (Smith, 2016). Ultimately, this \"…strengthens some of the gender dynamics that make intimate partner violence possible in the first place\" (Smith, 2016).\n\nBy contrast, Pope Paul VI in his 1968 encyclical letter \"Humanae vitae\" wrote that \"Men rightly observe that a conjugal act imposed on one's partner without regard to his or her condition or personal and reasonable wishes in the matter, is no true act of love, and therefore offends the moral order in its particular application to the intimate relationship of husband and wife.\" This teaching, which has been reaffirmed more recently by Pope Francis, and has been interpreted by Bertrand de Margerie to condemn \"intra-marital rape\", and the use of force in marriage more generally.\n\nIn other areas around the world, religion is intertwined with the state and directs how people are governed. In Pakistan, there is legal pluralism where the state's legal system intertwines secular and religious law of Islam (Bovarnik, 2007). The result is Shari’a law which represents the religious aspects of the Pakistani legal system. This religious aspect of Pakistani law has many implications for marital rape. For example, Shari’a law requires a female rape victim to provide four Muslim adult male witnesses on her behalf (Bovarnik, 2007). Silvie Bovarnik (2007) argues that \"This law hence scrutinizes women's sexual behaviour by criminalising sex outside and decriminalising rape within the context of marriage, while failing to protect women from sexual violence in both contexts.\" In other words, there seems to be a preoccupation with a woman's sexual misconduct and a simultaneous lack of protection for victims of rape within their own marriage (Bovarnik, 2007). Religious ideologies emphasize a woman's honor, specifically, her virginity (Bovarnik, 2007). In general, \"…women are traditionally conceptualized as the property of and a symbol of honour for her own family and later that of her husband.\" (Bovoarnik, 2007). In addition, Islamic norms have traditionally placed restrictions on women's behavior (Bovarnik, 2007). Women are to stay at home, please the men in one's family, raise the children, and to not become involved with the world outside the home (Bovarnik, 2007). As a result, having no connection with the world outside one's family may isolate women victims of marital rape.\n\nUnlike Pakistan, the country of Sudan is ruled by Islamic law; there is no legal pluralism (Tonnesson, 2014). In Sudanese Islamic law, there is an understood exchange in marriage: A man is responsible for providing adequate support (food, shelter, etc.) and in return the woman is supposed to be obedient to her husband (Tonnesson, 2014). This follows the notion of qawama which states that male guardianship is ultimate and therefore a women's role is to obey her male guardianship (Tonnesson, 2014). In reference to marital rape, religious law in Sudan has implications for divorce. Under Sudanese Islamic law, disobedience from a wife is grounds for divorce, but a husband raping his wife is not (Tonnesson, 2014). \nDue to this understanding of a contractual exchange between husband and wife, forcing a wife to have sex without her consent is not considered rape (Tonnesson, 2014). However, activists with opposing views argue that consent is central to Islam (Tonnesson, 2014). Abdel Halim (2011) argues that without consent, \"…a sexual act loses its legitimacy\" (Tonnesson, 2014).\n\nIn India, classical Hindu law defines the state's understanding of marriage. Therefore, marriage is \"not viewed as a contract but as a sacrament\" (Mandal, 2014). This understanding is the basis for the lack of criminalization of marital rape. India's religious context defines marriages as \"divinely ordained\" and therefore the \"…rights and obligations of spouses in conjugal relations [are] beyond the scope of regulation by criminal law\" (Mandal, 2014). In other words, criminal law cannot touch that which is deemed sacred under the Hindu religion. As a result, marriage, divorce, adoption, inheritance, and other family practices are governed by religious law of each community (Mandal, 2014). However, this statement is controversial because legally marriage any person who is a Hindu, Buddhist, Jain or Sikh by religion is governed by The Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 in India, which has provisions to prohibit possession of multiple wives, and has a provision of divorce similar to other western marriage laws. These both provisions was not existing in classical Sanskrit law. This law faced religious opposition but yet implemented the government at that time. The law is now widely acceptable, and implemented in present Indian society. Therefore, stating \"In India, classical Hindu Law defines the states understanding of marriage\" can be a misleading statement.\n\nAnother sustaining factor is the obligatory roles placed on wives and what they come to understand as their \"duty\". For example, \"Vietnamese women are expected to sacrifice for their families, especially for their children, which includes, for some, acceding to husbands’ sexual demands\" (Kwiatkowski, 2016). Their \"duty\" is to maintain family harmony and happiness (Kwiatkowski, 2016). In Guatemala, violence within marriage is so normalized that wives come to believe that this is ‘the way things are’ and it is simply their role as a wife to endure the violence (Menjívar, 2016). This \"…normalization of violence…rests on a continuum of coercive power that makes possible the mistreatment of women not only in their homes but also in the community, neighborhood, and society at large\" (Menjívar, 2016). Further, because many of these women believe giving sex is their duty, they do not characterize their experience as marital rape (Bergen, 2016). However, \"…women who have experienced forced sex in marriage understand this experience as an abuse or violation\", they just may not characterize it as marital rape (Torres, 2016). Violence is so entrenched in many cultures it simply becomes a way of life, and wives are left to believe they must learn to endure it (Menjívar, 2016).\n\nOn the other hand, husbands are influenced by the expectations of their masculinity. In Africa, these expectations include being a husband, father, and head of the household which requires men to provide food, shelter and protection (Smith, 2016). Along with this \"…obligation of being the provider comes the privilege and authority of patriarchy\" (Smith, 2016). As a result, it is often the man's perception that his wife has challenged his authority that leads to the violence (Smith, 2016).\n\nIn the United States, masculinity is understood as a fixed entity that exists despite the changes of everyday life (Connell, 45). It is understood as being in comparison to femininity, and more specifically, in opposition to femininity: Masculinity is to superiority as femininity is to subservience (Connell). Therefore, masculinity is correlated with aggression in such a way that scholars argue violence is a way for men to show their masculine identity (Umberson et al., 2003). Another expectation of masculinity is that men are not to show their emotion (Umberson et al., 2003). Instead, as Robert Connell argues, the \"masculine prototype\" is a strong and stoic man who appears to remain in control of the situation and his emotions (Umberson et al., 2003). This sense of control in Western masculinity has direct implications for domestic violence. Scholars argue that some men use violence to regain this sense of control when it is lost (Umberson et al., 2003).\n\nHowever, not all men who subscribe to masculinity expectations are violent. In fact, most men, in general, are not violent (Umberson et al., 2003). For those who are violent, ideals of masculinity seem to play some causal role in their violence. Research shows that \"violence is more likely among men who experience a disconnection between their personal circumstances and their emotions\" (Umberson et al., 2003). Evidently, there seems to be some connection between the masculine expectation of suppressing or disconnecting from one's emotions, and one's tendency to be violent (Umberson et al., 2003).\n\nAlthough marital rape is not always defined as such in different cultures, there is a universal understanding of the violation that comes with rape. Yllö & Torres (2016) argue that \"…marital rape is regularly constituted across cultures as a locally recognized social violation—one that is understood to impede women in those particular cultural contexts from aspiring to a good human life.\" An aspect of this violation is the notion that the victim has not given their consent, however, historically and presently, consent is not always connected to marital sex. (Yllö &Torres, 2016). In the United States, a woman's personhood, and therefore her consent, only began with the suffragist movement that sought women's access to equal citizenship (Yllö & Torres, 2016). Globally, many cultures do not require a woman's consent in marriage because procreation is at the root of such an alliance (Yllö & Torres, 2016). Further, some women are forced into marriage where her consent is not considered or required (Yllö & Torres, 2016). Despite this cultural variance, \"women across many cultures do experience the violation of rape in marriage—even if the way that such violations are experienced and understood differs from culture to culture\" (Yllö & Torres, 2016).\n\nThe criminalization of marital rape does not necessary mean that these laws are enforced in practice, with lack of public awareness, as well as reluctance or outright refusal of authorities to prosecute being common in many countries. For instance, in Ireland, where marital rape was made illegal in 1990, by 2016 there had been only two persons convicted of marital rape. Additionally, gender norms that often place wives in subservient positions to their husbands, make it more difficult for women to recognize spousal rape or feel confident that it will be addressed by law enforcement. \n\nIn many countries, most often, in practice, there will be no prosecution except in extreme cases that involve a very high level of violence. There have been many problems with prosecuting the perpetrators of spousal rape, chief amongst them has been the reluctance of the various legal systems to recognize it as a crime at all. However, criminalization has opened a new set of problems. To take an example in the United Kingdom, such a category of rape was only recognized by a 1991 House of Lords decision known simply as \"R v R (1991 All ER 481)\". While most parties agreed with the House of Lords' motive in making the decision, there were many who were of the opinion that the decision involved \"post facto\" criminalization, since the House of Lords were imprisoning spouses for doing what was once, according to the law, their right.\n\nAnother problem results from prevailing social norms that exist in certain cultures. In order for any law to be successfully enforced, the acts which it prohibits must be perceived by society as abusive. As such, even if a jurisdiction enacts adequate laws against marital rape, in practice, these laws are ignored if the act is not socially considered a crime. For example, in many parts of the world, where women have few rights, it is considered unthinkable for a woman to refuse her husband's sexual demands; far from being seen as an act of abuse of a wife, marital rape is seen as an incident provoked by the wife who refused to perform her duty: for instance one survey found that 74% of women in Mali said that a husband is justified to beat his wife if she refuses to have sex with him.\n\nOther problems arise from the fact that, even in countries where marital rape is illegal, many people are not aware of the existing laws. Because in most parts of the world marital rape laws are very new, many people do not know of their existence. In many cultures, traditional ideas about marriage are deeply rooted in the conscience of the population, and few people know that forcing a spouse to have sex is illegal. For instance, a report by Amnesty International showed that although marital rape is illegal in Hungary, in a public opinion poll of nearly 1,200 people in 2006, a total of 62% did not know\nthat marital rape was a crime: over 41% of men and nearly 56% of women\nthought it was not punishable as a crime in Hungarian law, and nearly 12% did not know. In Hong Kong, in 2003, 16 months after the criminalization of marital rape, a survey showed that 40% of women did not know it was illegal. A 2010 study in South Africa (where marital rape was made illegal in 1993) showed that only 55% of respondents agreed with the affirmation \"I think it is possible for a woman to be raped by her husband\".\nAlthough in recent years some countries in Africa have enacted laws against marital rape, in most parts of the continent forced marital sex is not a criminal offense. A 2003 report by Human Rights Watch stated that: \"With few exceptions across Africa, marital rape is not recognized as a crime, and domestic violence is seen as a right of married men.\" The acceptability of domestic violence in most African countries is very high: surveys showed that the percentage of women aged 15–49 who think that a husband is justified in hitting or beating his wife under certain circumstances is, for example, 87% in Mali, 86% in Guinea, 80% in Central African Republic, 79% in South Sudan. Although more countries in Africa are now enacting laws against domestic violence, social norms make it difficult to enforce these laws; and many women are not aware of their rights: for instance in Ethiopia in a survey only 49% of women knew that wife-beating is illegal (it was made illegal under the 2004 Criminal Code). The lack of legal and social recognition of marital rape in Africa has been cited as making the fight against HIV harder.\n\n\"Note: The table can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically using the icons.\"\n\nTorres, G., Yllö, K. (2016). Marital Rape: Consent, Marriage and Social Change in Global Context. Torres, G., Yllö, K. (Ed.). London: Oxford University Press. \nUmberson, D., Anderson, K.L., Williams, K., Chen, M.D. (2003). Relationship dynamics, emotion state, and domestic violence: A stress and masculinities perspective. Journal of Marriage and Family, 65(1), 233-247. \nWaterman, C.K., Dawson, L.T., Bologna, M.J. (1989). Sexual coercion in gay male and lesbian relationships: Predictors and implications for support services. The Journal of Sex Research, 26(1), 118-124.\nWorld Health Organization (WHO). (2005). Multi-country Study of Women's Health and Domestic Violence against Women. Geneva, Switzerland: World Health Organization. \nYllö, Kersti. \"Prologue: Understanding Marital Rape in Global Context.\" Marital Rape: Consent, Marriage and Social Change in Global Context. Ed. Kersti Yllö, M.G. Torres. London: Oxford University Press, 2016. 1-6. Print.\n\n"}
{"id": "20618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20618", "title": "Martin Bormann", "text": "Martin Bormann\n\nMartin Bormann (17 June 1900 – 2 May 1945) was a prominent official in Nazi Germany as head of the Nazi Party Chancellery. He gained immense power by using his position as Adolf Hitler's private secretary to control the flow of information and access to Hitler. He succeeded Hitler as Party Minister of the National Socialist German Workers' Party after Hitler's suicide on 30 April 1945.\n\nBormann joined a paramilitary \"Freikorps\" organisation in 1922 while working as manager of a large estate. He served nearly a year in prison as an accomplice to his friend Rudolf Höss (later commandant of Auschwitz concentration camp) in the murder of Walther Kadow. Bormann joined the Nazi Party in 1927 and the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) in 1937. He initially worked in the party's insurance service, and transferred in July 1933 to the office of Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess, where he served as chief of staff.\n\nBormann used his position to create an extensive bureaucracy and involve himself as much as possible in the decision making. He gained acceptance into Hitler's inner circle, and accompanied him everywhere, providing briefings and summaries of events and requests. He began acting as Hitler's personal secretary on 12 August 1935. Bormann assumed Hess' former duties, with the title of Head of the \"Parteikanzlei\" (Party Chancellery), after Hess' solo flight to Britain on 10 May 1941 to seek peace negotiations with the British government. He had final approval over civil service appointments, reviewed and approved legislation, and by 1943 had \"de facto\" control over all domestic matters. Bormann was one of the leading proponents of the ongoing persecution of the Christian churches and favoured harsh treatment of Jews and Slavs in the areas conquered by Germany during World War II.\n\nBormann returned with Hitler to the \"Führerbunker\" in Berlin on 16 January 1945 as the Red Army approached the city. After Hitler committed suicide, Bormann and others attempted to flee Berlin on 2 May to avoid capture by the Soviets. Bormann probably committed suicide on a bridge near Lehrter station. The body was buried nearby on 8 May 1945, but was not found and confirmed as Bormann's until 1972; the identification was reaffirmed in 1998 by DNA tests. Bormann was tried \"in absentia\" by the International Military Tribunal in the Nuremberg trials of 1945 and 1946. He was convicted of war crimes and crimes against humanity and sentenced to death by hanging.\n\nBorn in Wegeleben (now in Saxony-Anhalt) in the Kingdom of Prussia in the German Empire, Bormann was the son of Theodor Bormann (1862–1903), a post office employee, and his second wife, Antonie Bernhardine Mennong. The family was Lutheran. He had two half-siblings (Else and Walter Bormann) from his father's earlier marriage to Louise Grobler, who died in 1898. Antonie Bormann gave birth to three sons, one of whom died in infancy. Martin (born 1900) and Albert (born 1902) survived to adulthood. Theodor died when Bormann was three, and his mother soon remarried.\n\nBormann's studies at an agricultural trade high school were interrupted when he joined the 55th Field Artillery Regiment as a gunner in June 1918, in the last days of World War I. He never saw action, but served garrison duty until February 1919. After working a short time in a cattle feed mill, Bormann became estate manager of a large farm in Mecklenburg. Shortly after starting work at the estate, Bormann joined an antisemitic landowners association. While hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic meant that money was worthless, foodstuffs stored on farms and estates became ever more valuable. Many estates, including Bormann's, had \"Freikorps\" units stationed on site to guard the crops from pillaging. Bormann joined the \"Freikorps\" organisation headed by Gerhard Roßbach in 1922, acting as section leader and treasurer.\n\nOn 17 March 1924 Bormann was sentenced to a year in Elisabethstrasse Prison as an accomplice to his friend Rudolf Höss in the murder of Walther Kadow. The perpetrators believed Kadow had tipped off the French occupation authorities in the Ruhr District that fellow \"Freikorps\" member Albert Leo Schlageter was carrying out sabotage operations against French industries. Schlageter was arrested and was executed on 23 May 1923. On the night of 31 May, Höss, Bormann and several others took Kadow into a meadow out of town, where he was beaten and his throat cut. After one of the perpetrators confessed, police dug up the body and laid charges in July. Bormann was released from prison in February 1925. He joined the \"Frontbann\", a short-lived Nazi Party paramilitary organisation created to replace the \"Sturmabteilung\" (SA; storm detachment or assault division), which had been banned in the aftermath of the failed Munich Putsch. Bormann returned to his job at Mecklenburg and remained there until May 1926, when he moved in with his mother in Oberweimar.\n\nIn 1927, Bormann joined the National Socialist German Workers Party (Nazi Party; NSDAP). His membership number was 60,508. He joined the \"Schutzstaffel\" (SS) on 1 January 1937 with number 278,267. By special order of Heinrich Himmler in 1938, Bormann was granted SS number 555 to reflect his \"Alter Kämpfer\" (Old Fighter) status.\n\nBormann took a job with \"Der Nationalsozialist\", a weekly paper edited by NSDAP member Hans Severus Ziegler, who was deputy \"Gauleiter\" (party leader) for Thuringia. After joining the NSDAP in 1927, Bormann began duties as regional press officer, but his lack of public-speaking skills made him ill-suited to this position. He soon put his organisational skills to use as business manager for the \"Gau\" (region). He moved to Munich in October 1928, where he worked in the SA insurance office. Initially the NSDAP provided coverage through insurance companies for members who were hurt or killed in the frequent violent skirmishes with members of other political parties. As insurance companies were unwilling to pay out claims for such activities, in 1930 Bormann set up the \"Hilfskasse der NSDAP\" (NSDAP Auxiliary Fund), a benefits and relief fund directly administered by the party. Each party member was required to pay premiums and might receive compensation for injuries sustained while conducting party business. Payments out of the fund were made solely at Bormann's discretion. He began to gain a reputation as a financial expert, and many party members felt personally indebted to him after receiving benefits from the fund. In addition to its stated purpose, the fund was used as a last-resort source of funding for the NSDAP, which was chronically short of money at the time. After the NSDAP's success in the 1930 general election, where they won 107 seats, party membership grew dramatically. By 1932 the fund was collecting 3 million Reichsmarks per year.\n\nBormann also worked on the staff of the SA from 1928 to 1930, and while there he founded the National Socialist Automobile Corps, precursor to the National Socialist Motor Corps. The organisation was responsible for co-ordinating the donated use of motor vehicles belonging to party members, and later expanded to training members in automotive skills.\n\nAfter the \"Machtergreifung\" (NSDAP seizure of power) in January 1933, the relief fund was repurposed to provide general accident and property insurance, so Bormann resigned from its administration. He applied for a transfer and was accepted as chief of staff in the office of Rudolf Hess, the Deputy Führer, on 1 July 1933. Bormann also served as personal secretary to Hess from 4 July 1933 until May 1941. Hess' department was responsible for settling disputes within the party and acted as an intermediary between the party and the state regarding policy decisions and legislation. Bormann used his position to create an extensive bureaucracy and involve himself in as much of the decision-making as possible. On 10 October 1933 Hitler named Bormann \"Reichsleiter\" (national leader – the highest party rank) of the NSDAP, and in November he was named \"Reichstag\" deputy. By June 1934, Bormann was gaining acceptance into Hitler's inner circle and accompanied him everywhere, providing briefings and summaries of events and requests.\nIn 1935, Bormann was appointed as overseer of renovations at the Berghof, Hitler's property at Obersalzberg. In the early 1930s, Hitler bought the property, which he had been renting since 1925 as a vacation retreat. After he became chancellor, Hitler drew up plans for expansion and remodelling of the main house and put Bormann in charge of construction. Bormann commissioned the construction of barracks for the SS guards, roads and footpaths, garages for motor vehicles, a guesthouse, accommodation for staff, and other amenities. Retaining title in his own name, Bormann bought up adjacent farms until the entire complex covered . Members of the inner circle built houses within the perimeter, beginning with Hermann Göring, Albert Speer, and Bormann himself. Bormann commissioned the building of the \"Kehlsteinhaus\" (Eagle's Nest), a tea house high above the Berghof, as a gift to Hitler on his fiftieth birthday (20 April 1939). Hitler seldom used the building, but Bormann liked to impress guests by taking them there.\n\nWhile Hitler was in residence at the Berghof, Bormann was constantly in attendance and acted as Hitler's personal secretary. In this capacity, he began to control the flow of information and access to Hitler. During this period, Hitler gave Bormann control of his personal finances. In addition to salaries as chancellor and president, Hitler's income included money raised through royalties collected on his book \"Mein Kampf\" and the use of his image on postage stamps. Bormann set up the Adolf Hitler Fund of German Trade and Industry, which collected money from German industrialists on Hitler's behalf. Some of the funds received through this programme were disbursed to various party leaders, but Bormann retained most of it for Hitler's personal use. Bormann and others took notes of Hitler's thoughts expressed over dinner and in monologues late into the night and preserved them. The material was published after the war as \"Hitler's Table Talk\".\n\nThe office of the Deputy Führer had final approval over civil service appointments, and Bormann reviewed the personnel files and made the decisions regarding appointments. This power impinged on the purview of Minister of the Interior Wilhelm Frick, and was an example of the overlapping responsibilities typical of the Nazi regime. Bormann travelled everywhere with Hitler, including trips to Austria in 1938 after the \"Anschluss\" (the annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany), and to the Sudetenland after the signing of the Munich Agreement later that year. Bormann was placed in charge of organising the 1938 Nuremberg Rally, a major annual party event.\nHitler intentionally played top party members off against one another and the NSDAP against the civil service. In this way, he fostered distrust, competition, and infighting among his subordinates to consolidate and maximise his own power. He typically did not give written orders; instead he communicated them verbally or had them conveyed through Bormann. Falling out of favour with Bormann meant that access to Hitler was cut off. Bormann proved to be a master of intricate political infighting. Along with his ability to control access to Hitler, this enabled him to curtail the power of Joseph Goebbels, Göring, Himmler, Alfred Rosenberg, Robert Ley, Hans Frank, Speer, and other high-ranking officials, many of whom became his enemies. This ruthless and continuous intriguing for power, influence, and Hitler's favour came to characterise the inner workings of the Third Reich.\n\nAs World War II progressed, Hitler's attention became focused on foreign affairs and the conduct of the war to the exclusion of all else. Hess, not directly engaged in either of these endeavours, became increasingly sidelined from the affairs of the nation and from Hitler's attention; Bormann had successfully supplanted Hess in many of his duties and usurped his position at Hitler's side. Hess was concerned that Germany would face a war on two fronts as plans progressed for Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union scheduled to take place later that year. He flew solo to Britain on 10 May 1941 to seek peace negotiations with the British government. He was arrested on arrival and spent the rest of the war as a British prisoner, eventually receiving a life sentence for war crimes at the Nuremberg trials in 1946. Speer later said Hitler described Hess' departure as one of the worst blows of his life, as he considered it a personal betrayal. Hitler ordered Hess to be shot should he return to Germany and abolished the post of Deputy Führer on 12 May 1941, assigning Hess' former duties to Bormann, with the title of Head of the \"Parteikanzlei\" (Party Chancellery). In this position he was responsible for all NSDAP appointments, and was answerable only to Hitler. Associates began to refer to him as the \"Brown Eminence\", but never to his face.\n\nBormann's power and effective reach broadened considerably during the war. By early 1943, the war produced a labour crisis for the regime. Hitler created a three-man committee with representatives of the State, the army, and the Party in an attempt to centralise control of the war economy. The committee members were Hans Lammers (head of the Reich Chancellery), Field Marshal Wilhelm Keitel, chief of the \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (Armed Forces High Command; OKW), and Bormann, who controlled the Party. The committee was intended to independently propose measures regardless of the wishes of various ministries, with Hitler reserving most final decisions to himself. The committee, soon known as the \"Dreierausschuß\" (Committee of Three), met eleven times between January and August 1943. However, they ran up against resistance from Hitler's cabinet ministers, who headed deeply entrenched spheres of influence and were excluded from the committee. Seeing it as a threat to their power, Goebbels, Göring, and Speer worked together to bring it down. The result was that nothing changed, and the Committee of Three declined into irrelevance.\n\nWhile Article 24 of the National Socialist Program called for conditional toleration of Christian denominations and a \"Reichskonkordat\" (Reich Concordat) treaty with the Vatican was signed in 1933, purporting to guarantee religious freedom for Catholics, Hitler believed that religion was fundamentally incompatible with National Socialism. Bormann, who was strongly anti-Christian, agreed; he stated publicly in 1941 that \"National Socialism and Christianity are irreconcilable.\" Out of political expediency, Hitler intended to postpone the elimination of the Christian churches until after the war. However, his repeated hostile statements against the church indicated to his subordinates that a continuation of the \"Kirchenkampf\" (church struggle) would be tolerated and even encouraged.\n\nBormann was one of the leading proponents of the ongoing persecution of the Christian churches. In February 1937 he decreed that members of the clergy should not be admitted to the NSDAP. The following year he ruled that any members of the clergy who were holding party offices should be dismissed, and that any party member who was considering entering the clergy had to give up his party membership. While Bormann's push to force the closure of theological departments at Reich universities was unsuccessful, he was able to reduce the amount of religious instruction provided in public schools to two hours per week and mandated the removal of crucifixes from classrooms. Speer notes in his memoirs that while drafting plans for \"Welthauptstadt Germania\", the planned rebuilding of Berlin, he was told by Bormann that churches were not to be allocated any building sites.\n\nAs part of the campaign against the Catholic Church, hundreds of monasteries in Germany and Austria were confiscated by the Gestapo and their occupants were expelled. In 1941 the Catholic Bishop of Münster, August von Galen, publicly protested against this persecution and against Action T4, the Nazi non-voluntary euthanasia programme under which the mentally ill, physically deformed, and incurably sick were to be killed. In a series of sermons that received international attention, he criticised the programme as illegal and immoral. His sermons led to a widespread protest movement among church leaders, the strongest protest against a Nazi policy up until that point. Bormann and others called for Galen to be hanged, but Hitler and Goebbels concluded that Galen's death would only be viewed as a martyrdom and lead to further unrest. Hitler decided to deal with the issue when the war was over.\n\nGeorge Mosse wrote of Bormann's beliefs:\nHowever, Richard Overy describes Bormann as an atheist.\n\nPreoccupied with military matters and spending most of his time at his military headquarters on the eastern front, Hitler came to rely more and more on Bormann to handle the domestic policies of the country. On 12 April 1943, Hitler officially appointed Bormann as Personal Secretary to the Führer. By this time Bormann had de facto control over all domestic matters, and this new appointment gave him the power to act in an official capacity in any matter.\n\nBormann was invariably the advocate of extremely harsh, radical measures when it came to the treatment of Jews, the conquered eastern peoples, and prisoners of war. He signed the decree of 31 May 1941 extending the 1935 Nuremberg Laws to the annexed territories of the East. Thereafter, he signed the decree of 9 October 1942 prescribing that the permanent Final Solution in Greater Germany could no longer be solved by emigration, but only by the use of \"ruthless force in the special camps of the East\", that is, extermination in Nazi death camps. A further decree, signed by Bormann on 1 July 1943, gave Adolf Eichmann absolute powers over Jews, who now came under the exclusive jurisdiction of the Gestapo. Historian Richard J. Evans estimates that 5.5 to 6 million Jews, representing two-thirds of the Jewish population of Europe, were exterminated by the Nazi regime in the course of The Holocaust.\n\nKnowing Hitler viewed Slavic people as inferior, Bormann opposed the introduction of German criminal law into the conquered eastern territories. He lobbied for and eventually achieved a strict separate penal code that implemented martial law for the Polish and Jewish inhabitants of these areas. The \"Edict on Criminal Law Practices against Poles and Jews in the Incorporated Eastern Territories\", promulgated 4 December 1941, permitted corporal punishment and death sentences for even the most trivial of offences.\n\nBormann supported the hard-line approach of Erich Koch, \"Reichskommissar\" in Reichskommissariat Ukraine, in his brutal treatment of Slavic people. Alfred Rosenberg, serving as head of the Reich Ministry for the Occupied Eastern Territories, favoured a more moderate policy. After touring collective farms around Vinnytsia, Ukraine, Bormann was concerned about the health and good physical constitution of the population, as he was concerned that they could constitute a danger to the regime. After discussion with Hitler, he issued a policy directive to Rosenberg that read in part:\n\nBormann and Himmler shared responsibility for the \"Volkssturm\" (people's militia), which drafted all remaining able-bodied men aged 16 to 60 into a last-ditch militia founded on 18 October 1944. Poorly equipped and trained, the men were sent to fight on the eastern front, where nearly 175,000 of them were killed without having any discernible impact on the Soviet advance.\n\nHitler transferred his headquarters to the \"Führerbunker\" (\"Leader's bunker\") in Berlin on 16 January 1945, where he (along with Bormann, his secretary Else Krüger, and others) remained until the end of April. The \"Führerbunker\" was located under the Reich Chancellery garden in the government district in the centre of the city. The Battle of Berlin, the final major Soviet offensive of the war, began on 16 April 1945. By 19 April the Red Army started to encircle the city. On 20 April, his 56th birthday, Hitler made his last trip to the surface. In the ruined garden of the Reich Chancellery, he awarded Iron Crosses to boy soldiers of the Hitler Youth. That afternoon, Berlin was bombarded by Soviet artillery for the first time. On 23 April, Albert Bormann left the bunker complex and flew to the Obersalzberg. He and several others had been ordered by Hitler to leave Berlin.\n\nIn the early morning hours of 29 April 1945, Wilhelm Burgdorf, Goebbels, Hans Krebs, and Bormann witnessed and signed Hitler's last will and testament. Bormann was named executor of the estate. That same night, Hitler married Eva Braun in a civil ceremony.\n\nAs Soviet forces continued to fight their way into the centre of Berlin, Hitler and Braun committed suicide on the afternoon of 30 April. Braun took cyanide and Hitler shot himself. Pursuant to Hitler's instructions, their bodies were carried up to the Reich Chancellery garden and burned. In accordance with Hitler's last wishes, Bormann was named as Party Minister, thus officially confirming his position as de facto General Secretary of the Party. Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz was appointed as the new \"Reichspräsident\" (president of Germany) and Goebbels became head of government and Chancellor of Germany. Goebbels and his wife Magda committed suicide later that day.\n\nOn 2 May, the Battle in Berlin ended when General der Artillerie Helmuth Weidling, the commander of the Berlin Defence Area, unconditionally surrendered the city to General Vasily Chuikov, the commander of the Soviet 8th Guards Army.\n\nAt around 11:00 pm on 1 May, Bormann left the \"Führerbunker\" with SS doctor Ludwig Stumpfegger, Hitler Youth leader Artur Axmann, and Hitler's pilot Hans Baur as members of one of the groups attempting to break out of the Soviet encirclement. Bormann carried with him a copy of Hitler's last will and testament. The group left the \"Führerbunker\" and travelled on foot via a U-Bahn tunnel to the Friedrichstraße station, where they surfaced. Several members of the party attempted to cross the Spree River at the Weidendammer Bridge while crouching behind a Tiger tank. The tank was hit by Soviet artillery and destroyed, and Bormann and Stumpfegger were knocked to the ground. Bormann, Stumpfegger, and several others eventually crossed the river on their third attempt. Bormann, Stumpfegger, and Axmann walked along the railway tracks to Lehrter station, where Axmann decided to leave the others and go in the opposite direction. When he encountered a Red Army patrol, Axmann doubled back. He saw two bodies, which he later identified as Bormann and Stumpfegger, on a bridge near the railway switching yard. He did not have time to check thoroughly, so he did not know how they died. Since the Soviets never admitted to finding Bormann's body, his fate remained in doubt for many years.\n\nDuring the chaotic days after the war, contradictory reports arose as to Bormann's whereabouts. Sightings were reported in Argentina, Spain, and elsewhere. Bormann's wife was placed under surveillance in case he tried to contact her. Jakob Glas, Bormann's long-time chauffeur, insisted that he saw Bormann in Munich in July 1946. In case Bormann was still alive, multiple public notices about the upcoming Nuremberg trials were placed in newspapers and on the radio in October and November 1945 to notify him of the proceedings against him.\n\nThe trial got underway on 20 November 1945. Lacking evidence confirming Bormann's death, the International Military Tribunal tried him \"in absentia\", as permitted under article 12 of their charter. He was charged with three counts: conspiracy to wage a war of aggression, war crimes, and crimes against humanity. His prosecution was assigned to Lieutenant Thomas F. Lambert Jr. and his defence to Dr. Friedrich Bergold. The prosecution stated that Bormann participated in planning and co-signed virtually all of the antisemitic legislation put forward by the regime. Bergold unsuccessfully proposed that the court could not convict Bormann because he was already dead. Due to the shadowy nature of Bormann's activities, Bergold was unable to refute the prosecution's assertions as to the extent of his involvement in decision making. Bormann was convicted of war crimes and crimes against humanity and acquitted of conspiracy to wage a war of aggression. On 15 October 1946 he was sentenced to death by hanging, with the provision that if he were later found alive, any new facts brought to light at that time could be taken into consideration to reduce the sentence or overturn it.\n\nOver the coming years, several organisations, including the CIA and the West German Government, attempted to locate Bormann without success. In 1964, the West German government offered a reward of 100,000 Deutsche Marks for information leading to Bormann's capture. Sightings were reported at points all over the world, including Australia, Denmark, Italy, and South America. In his autobiography, Nazi intelligence officer Reinhard Gehlen claimed that Bormann had been a Soviet spy, and that he had escaped to Moscow. Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal believed that Bormann was living in South America. The West German government declared that its hunt for Bormann was over in 1971.\n\nIn 1963, a retired postal worker named Albert Krumnow told police that around 8 May 1945 the Soviets had ordered him and his colleagues to bury two bodies found near the railway bridge near Lehrter station. One was dressed in a \"Wehrmacht\" uniform and the other was clad only in his underwear. Krumnow's colleague Wagenpfohl found an SS doctor's paybook on the second body identifying him as Dr. Ludwig Stumpfegger. He gave the paybook to his boss, postal chief Berndt, who turned it over to the Soviets. They in turn destroyed it. He wrote to Stumpfegger's wife on 14 August 1945 and told her that her husband's body was \"... interred with the bodies of several other dead soldiers in the grounds of the Alpendorf in Berlin NW 40, Invalidenstrasse 63.\"\n\nExcavations on 20–21 July 1965 at the site specified by Axmann and Krumnow failed to locate the bodies. However, on 7 December 1972, construction workers uncovered human remains near Lehrter station in West Berlin just from the spot where Krumnow claimed he had buried them. Upon autopsy, fragments of glass were found in the jaws of both skeletons, suggesting that the men had committed suicide by biting cyanide capsules to avoid capture. Dental records—reconstructed from memory in 1945 by Dr. Hugo Blaschke—identified one skeleton as Bormann's, and damage to the collarbone was consistent with injuries that Bormann's sons reported he had sustained in a riding accident in 1939. Forensic examiners determined that the size of the skeleton and the shape of the skull were identical to Bormann's. Likewise, the second skeleton was deemed to be Stumpfegger's, since it was of similar height to his last known proportions. Composite photographs, where images of the skulls were overlaid on photographs of the men's faces, were completely congruent. Facial reconstruction was undertaken in early 1973 on both skulls to confirm the identities of the bodies. Soon afterward, the West German government declared Bormann dead. The family was not permitted to cremate the body, in case further forensic examination later proved necessary.\n\nThe remains were conclusively identified as Bormann's in 1998 when German authorities ordered genetic testing on fragments of the skull. The testing was led by Wolfgang Eisenmenger, Professor of Forensic Science at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. Tests using DNA from one of his relatives identified the skull as that of Bormann. Bormann's remains were cremated and the ashes were scattered in the Baltic Sea on 16 August 1999.\n\nOn 2 September 1929, Bormann married 19-year-old Gerda Buch, whose father, Major Walter Buch, served as a chairman of the \"Untersuchung und Schlichtungs-Ausschuss\" (USCHLA; Investigation and Settlement Committee), which was responsible for settling disputes within the party. Hitler was a frequent visitor to the Buch house, and it was here that Bormann met him. Hess and Hitler served as witnesses at the wedding. Bormann also had a series of mistresses, including Manja Behrens, an actress.\n\nMartin and Gerda Bormann had ten children:\n\nGerda Bormann and the children fled Obersalzberg for Italy on 25 April 1945 after an Allied air attack. She died of cancer on 26 April 1946, in Merano, Italy. Bormann's children survived the war, and were cared for in foster homes. His eldest son, Martin, was ordained a Roman Catholic priest and worked in Africa as a missionary. He later left the priesthood and married.\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "9507953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9507953", "title": "MicroVacuum", "text": "MicroVacuum\n\nMicroVacuum Ltd. is a Hungarian biotechnology company based in Budapest. MicroVacuum is a global supplier of label-free biosensor systems for the life-science research market to provide real-time, label free detection and characterization of surface adsorption. \n\nMicroVacuum develops, manufactures, and markets the OWLS label-free, real-time biosensor system based on the grating coupler waveguide technology. The OW optical sensors and OWLS analytical system allow the determination of the affinity and kinetics of a wide variety of molecular interactions in real time, without the need for a molecular tag or label. \n\nApplications include protein quantification, classification of protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions, drug screening, and immunosensing. \n\nThe main biosensing applications of the OWLS technology are as follows:\n\n\nhttp://www.owls-sensors.com\n"}
{"id": "25416659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25416659", "title": "Mitochondrial replacement therapy", "text": "Mitochondrial replacement therapy\n\nMitochondrial replacement therapy (MRT, sometimes called mitochondrial donation) is the replacement of mitochondria in one or more cells to prevent or ameliorate disease. MRT originated as a special form of in vitro fertilisation in which some or all of the future baby's mitochondrial DNA comes from a third party. This technique is used in cases when mothers carry genes for mitochondrial diseases. The therapy is approved for use in the United Kingdom. A second application is to use autologous mitochondria to replace mitochondria in damaged tissue to restore the tissue to a functional state. This has been used in clinical research in the United states to treat cardiac-compromised newborns.\n\nMitochondrial replacement therapy has been used to prevent the transmission of mitochondrial diseases from mother to child; it could only be performed in clinics licensed by the UK's Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA), only for people individually approved the HFEA, for whom preimplantation genetic diagnosis is unlikely to be helpful, and only with informed consent that the risks and benefits are not well understood.\n\nRelevant mutations are found in about 0.5% of the population and disease affects around one in 5000 individuals (0.02%)—the percentage of people affected is much smaller because cells contain many mitochondria, only some of which carry mutations, and the number of mutated mitochondria need to reach a threshold in order to affect the entire cell, and many cells need to be affected for the person to show disease.\n\nThe average number of births per year among women at risk for transmitting mtDNA disease is estimated to approximately 150 in the United Kingdom and 800 in the United States.\n\nPrior to the development of MRT, and in places where it is not legal or feasible, the reproductive options for women who are at risk for transmitting mtDNA disease and who want to prevent transmission were using an egg from another woman, adoption, or childlessness.\n\nAutologous mitochondria extracted from healthy tissue and supplied to damaged tissue has been used to treat cardiac-compromised newborns. Alternatives to the approach include use of an extracorporeal membrane oxygenator (ECMO) or tissue/organ transplantation.\n\nIn \"in vitro\" fertilization and involves removing eggs from a woman, removing sperm from a man, fertilizing the egg with the sperm, allowing the fertilized egg to form a blastocyst, and then implanting the blastocyst. MRT involves an additional egg from a third person, and manipulating both the recipient egg and the donor egg.\n\nAs of 2016 there were three MRT techniques: maternal spindle transfer (MST), pronuclear transfer (PNT), and more recently as of that date, polar body transfer (PBT). The original technique, in which cytoplasm taken from a donor egg and containing mitochondria, is simply injected into the recipient egg, is no longer used.\nIn MST, an oocyte is removed from the recipient, and when it is in the metaphase II stage of cell division, the spindle-chromosome complex is removed; some of cytoplasm comes with it, so some mitochondria are likely included. The spindle-chromosome complex is inserted into a donor oocyte from which the nucleus has already been removed. This egg is fertilized with sperm, and allowed to form a blastocyst, which can then be investigated with preimplantation genetic diagnosis to check for mitochondrial mutations, prior to being implanted in the recipient's uterus.\n\nIn pronuclear transfer, an oocyte is removed from the recipient, and fertilized with sperm. The donor oocyte is fertilized with sperm from the same person. The male and female pronuclei are removed from each fertilized egg prior to their fusing, and the pronuclei from the recipient's fertilized egg are inserted into the fertilized egg from the donor. As with MST, a small amount of cytoplasm from the donor egg may be transferred, and as with MST, the fertilized egg is allowed to form a blastocyst, which can then be investigated with preimplantation genetic diagnosis to check for mitochondrial mutations, prior to being implanted in the recipient's uterus.\nIn polar body transfer, a polar body (a small cell with very little cytoplasm that is created when an egg cell divides) from the recipient is used in its entirety, instead of using nuclear material extracted from the recipient's normal egg; this can be used in either MST or PNT. This technique was first published in 2014 and as of 2015 it had not been consistently replicated, but is considered promising as there is a greatly reduced chance for transmitting mitochondria from the recipient because polar bodies contain very few mitochondria, and it does not involve extracting material from the recipient's egg.\nCytoplasmic transfer was originally developed in the 1980s in the course of basic research conducted with mice to study the role that parts of the cell outside of the nucleus played in embryonic development. In this technique, cytoplasm including proteins, mRNA, mitochondria and other organelles, is taken from a donor egg, and injected into the recipient egg, resulting in a mixture of mitochondrial genetic material. This technique started to be used in the late 1990s to \"boost\" the eggs of older women who wanted to conceive but were having problems and led to the birth of about 30 babies. Concerns were raised that the mixture of genetic material and proteins could cause problems with respect to epigenetic clashes, or differences in the ability of the recipient and donor materials to effect the development process, or due to the injection of the donor material. After three children born through the technique were found to have developmental disorders (2 cases of Turner's syndrome and one case of pervasive developmental disorder (an autism spectrum disorder), the FDA banned the procedure until a clinical trial could prove its safety. As of 2015 that study had not been conducted, while the procedure was in use in other countries.\n\nA related approach uses autologous mitochondria taken from healthy tissue to replace the mitochondria in damaged tissue. Transfer techniques include direct injection into damaged tissue and injection into vessels that supply blood to the tissue.\n\nIn vivo fertilisation via MRT involves preimplantation genetic screening of the mother, preimplantation genetic diagnosis after the egg is fertilized, and in vitro fertilization. It has all the risks of those procedures.\n\nIn addition, both procedures used in MRT entail their own risks. On one level, the procedures physically disrupt two oocytes, removing nuclear genetic material from the recipient egg or fertilized egg, and inserting the nuclear genetic material into the donor unfertilized or fertilized egg; the manipulations for both procedures may cause various forms of damage that were not well understood as of 2016.\n\nMaternal mitochondria will be carried over to the donor egg; as of 2016 it was estimated that using techniques current in the UK, maternal mitochondria will comprise only around 2% or less of mitochondria in the resulting egg, a level that was considered safe by the HFEA and within the limits of mitochondrial variation that most people have.\n\nBecause MRT procedures involve actions at precise times during egg development and fertilization, and involves manipulating eggs, there is a risk that eggs may mature abnormally or that fertilization may happen abnormally; as of 2016 the HFEA judged that laboratory techniques in the UK had been well enough developed to manage these risks to proceed cautiously with making MRT available.\n\nBecause mitochondria in the final egg will come from a third party, different from the two parties whose DNA is in the nucleus, and because nuclear DNA codes for genes that make some of the proteins and mRNA used by mitochondria, there is a theoretical risk of adverse \"mito-nuclear\" interactions. While this theoretical risk could possibly be managed by attempting to match the haplotype of the donor and the recipient, as of 2016 there was no evidence that was an actual risk.\n\nFinally, there is a risk of epigenetic modification to DNA in the nucleus and mitochondria, caused by the procedure itself, or by mito-nuclear interactions. As of 2016 these risks appeared to be minimal but were being monitored by long-term study of children born from the procedure.\n\nIn the United States in 1996 embryologist Jacques Cohen and others at the Institute for Reproductive Medicine and Science, Saint Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, New Jersey first used cytoplasmic transfer in a human assisted reproduction procedure. In 1997 the first baby was born using this procedure (Emma Ott). In 2001, Cohen and others reported that 10 single babies, twins, and a quadruplet at his New Jersey clinic and a further six children in Israel had been born using his technique. Using modifications of his procedure, a baby had been born at Eastern Virginia Medical School, five children at the Lee Women's Hospital Infertility Clinic in Taichung, Taiwan. twins in Naples, Italy and a twins in India. In total as of 2016, 30-50 children worldwide had been reported to have been born using cytoplasmic transfer.\n\nIn 2002, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) asked a Biological Response Modifiers Advisory Committee Meeting to advise on the technique of cytoplasmic transfer to Treat Infertility. This committee felt that there were risks at the time of inadvertent transfer of chromosomes and enhanced survival of abnormal embryos. The FDA informed clinics that they considered the cytoplasmic transfer technique as a new treatment, and, as such, it would require an Investigational New Drug (IND) application. Cohen's clinic started the pre-IND application but the clinic then went private, funding for the application dried up, the application was abandoned, the research team disbanded, and the cytoplasmic transfer procedure fell out of favor. In 2016, 12 (out of the 13) parents of children born using cytoplasmic transfer at the Saint Barnabas Center participated in a limited follow-up inquiry via online questionnaire. Children whose ages then were 13-18 reported no major problems.\n\nIn 2009, a team in Japan published studies of mitochondrial donation. In the same year, a team led by scientists at Oregon Health & Science University published results of mitochondrial donation in monkeys; that team published an update reporting on the health of the monkeys born with the technique, as well as further work it had done on human embryos.\n\nHuman trials in oocytes in 2010 by Craven, et al. were successful in reducing transmission of mutated mtDNA. The results of the study found the mean tDNA carryover to stay under 2% in all of the experimental embryos. This was true for both the MI-SCC and PN transfer methods of MTR. This research did not extend past the blastocyst stage because of ethical concerns, but there are still concerns about whether or not results retrieved from the blastocyst stage are viable representations of whole embryos. Because of these speculations and to further the viability of MTR as a safe and effective technique, further research and clinical trials need to be initiated in order to test the efficacy of MTR in the long term in human patients.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, following animal experiments and the recommendations of a government commissioned expert committee, the Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Research Purposes) Regulations were passed in 2001 regulating and allowing research into human embryos. In 2004, the Newcastle University applied for a licence to develop pronuclear transfer to avoid the transmission of mitochondrial diseases, and was granted the license in 2005. Following further research by Newcastle and the Wellcome Trust, scientific review, public consultations, and debate, the UK government recommended that mitochondrial donation be legalized in 2013. In 2015 parliament passed the Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Mitochondrial Donation) Regulations, which came into force on 29 October 2015, making human mitochondrial donation legal in the UK. The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority (HFEA) was authorized to licence and regulate medical centers which wanted to use human mitochondrial donation. In February 2016, the US National Academy of Sciences issued a report describing technologies then current and the surrounding ethical issues.\n\nThe HFEA Safety Committee issued its fourth report in November 2016 recommending procedures under which HFEA should authorize MRT, the HFEA issued their regulations in December 2016 and granted their first licence (to Newcastle University) in March 2017. On 6 February 2018, two women in the UK carrying mitochondrial DNA mutations were granted licences to undergo MRT.\n\nDouglass Turnbull, the driving force behind mitochondrial research at Newcastle University, was awarded a knighthood in 2016.\n\nIn 2016, John Zhang and a team in in New York used the spindle transfer technique to help a Jordanian woman to give birth to a baby boy in Mexico where there was no law against using such a technique. The mother had Leigh disease and already had four miscarriages and two children who had died of the disease. Valery Zukin, director of a clinic in Kiev, Ukraine, reported in June 2018 that doctors there had used the pronuclear transfer method of MRT to help four women give birth (three boys and a girl), three women to become pregnant (one from Sweden) and had 14 failed attempts. The doctors first got approval from an ethical committee and a review board of the Ukrainian Association of Reproductive Medicine and the Ukrainian Postgraduate Medical Academy, under the auspices of the Ukrainian Ministry of Healthcare, but there was no law in the Ukraine against MRT. One of the first children, a boy, was born to the 34-year-old woman in January 2017 and genetic test results were reported as normal. In August and October 2017 the British HFEA authorised MRT for two women who had a genetic mutation in their mitichondria that causes myoclonic epilepsy with ragged red fibers.\n\nIn August 2017, in a letter to two clinics, including Zhang's, the FDA warned that the technique should not be marketed in the U.S.\n\nIn June 2018 Australian Senate's Senate Community Affairs References Committee recommended a move towards legalising MRT and in July 2018 the Australian senate endorsed it. Research and clinical applications of MRT were overseen by laws made by federal and state governments. State laws were, for the most part, consistent with federal law. In all states, legislation prohibited the use of MRT techniques in the clinic, and except for Western Australia, research on a limited range of MRT was permissible up to day 14 of embryo development, subject to a license being granted. In 2010, the Hon. Mark Butler MP, then Federal Minister for Mental Health and Ageing, had appointed an independent committee to review the two relevant acts: the \"Prohibition of Human Cloning for Reproduction Act 2002\" and the \"Research Involving Human Embryos Act 2002\". The committee’s report, released in July 2011, recommended the existing legislation remain unchanged. Singapore was also considering whether to permit the MRT in 2018.\n\nIn 2018, researchers announced the use of MRT to restore function to heart tissue in cardiac-compromised newborns. The damaged heart cells absorbed mitochondria extracted from healthy tissue and returned to useful activity.\n\nAs of February 2016, the United States had no regulations governing mitochondrial donation, and Congress barred the FDA from evaluating any applications that involve implanting modified embryos into a woman.\n\nThe United Kingdom became the first country to legalize the procedure; the UK's chief medical officer recommended it be legalized in 2013; parliament passed The Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Mitochondrial Donation) Regulations in 2015, and the regulatory authority published regulations in 2016.\n\nDespite the promising outcomes of the two techniques, pronuclear transfer and spindle transfer, mitochondrial gene replacement raises ethical and social concerns.\n\nMitochondrial donation involves modification of the germline, and hence such modifications would be passed on to subsequent generations. Using human embryos for in vitro research is also controversial, as embryos are created specifically for research and the financial compensation of egg donors.\n\nImplications for identity is another ethical concern with psychological and emotional impacts on a child's life regarding of a person's sense of identity. It debates whether the genetic make-up of children born as a result of mitochondrial replacement affect their emotional well-being when they are aware that they are different from other healthy children conceived from two parents.\n\nOpponents argue that scientists are \"playing God\" and that children with three genetic parents may suffer both psychological and physical damage.\n\nOn the other hand, New York University researcher James Grifo, a critic of the American ban, has argued that society \"would never have made the advances in treating infertility that we have if these bans had been imposed 10 years\" earlier.\n\nOn February 3, 2016, a report was issued by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (commissioned by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) addressing whether it is ethically permissible for clinical research into mitochondrial replacement techniques (MRT) to continue. The report, titled \"Mitochondrial Replacement Techniques: Ethical, Social, and Policy Considerations\" analyzes multiple facets of the arguments surrounding MRT and concludes that it is 'ethically permissible' to continue clinical investigations of MRT, so long as certain conditions are met. They recommended that initially it should only be used for male embryos to ensure that DNA with mitochondrial disease would not be passed on.\n\nIn 2018 Carl Zimmer compared the reaction to He Jiankui's human gene editing experiment to the debate over MRT.\n"}
{"id": "6879105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6879105", "title": "Moses Allen (minister)", "text": "Moses Allen (minister)\n\nMoses Allen (September 14, 1748 – February 8, 1779) was a minister of Midway, Georgia during the American Revolution.\n\nHe was born in Northampton, Massachusetts and educated at the College of New Jersey. He preached at Christ Church Parish in Charleston, South Carolina and then moved to Savannah. There, he was ordained by Rev. John J. Zubly and William Tennent. He served in Rev. Zubly's place in Savannah while he was attending the Continental Congress in Philadelphia. He then replaced the Rev. John Osgood at Midway Congregational Church. Midway and the surrounding St. John's Parish was hotbed of republican sentiment during the outbreak of the American Revolution.\n\nIn 1778, General Augustine Prevost, military commander of British East Florida—headquartered in St. Augustine—dispersed his society, and burned the meeting house and many dwelling houses, etc. When Savannah was taken, Allen was also taken prisoner, and sent on board the prison ships. He was very active both in exhortation and in actual service in the field. He was drowned in an attempt to escape.\n\n"}
{"id": "33457394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33457394", "title": "New Enterprise Associates", "text": "New Enterprise Associates\n\nNew Enterprise Associates (NEA) is an American-based venture capital firm. NEA focuses investment stages ranging from seed stage through growth stage across an array of industry sectors. With over $18 billion in assets under management, NEA was the world's largest venture capital firm in 2007.\n\nThe firm is headquartered in Menlo Park, California, and Washington, D.C., and has additional offices in Baltimore, Bangalore, Beijing, Boston, Mumbai, New York City, San Francisco and Shanghai.\n\nSince its founding, NEA invested in nearly 1,000 companies, and realized over 560 liquidity events (with close to 250 portfolio company IPOs and over 300 portfolio company acquisitions).\n\nNEA was founded in 1977 by C. Richard (Dick) Kramlich, Chuck Newhall and Frank Bonsal. Kramlich had worked with noted venture capitalist Arthur Rock beginning 1969 and Frank Bosnal had been an investment banker at Alex. Brown & Sons where he focused on initial public offerings (IPOs) for startup companies. Chuck Newhall had previously managed an investment fund for T. Rowe Price in the 1970s. The firm was founded with offices on both the East Coast and the West Coast. Among the firm's first investments was 3Com, which NEA backed along with Mayfield Fund and Jack Melchor in 1981.\n\nThe first NEA investment fund had only $16 million of capital. The firm's second fund raised $45 million and the third fund collected $125 million of commitments from investors in 1984. The firm continued to grow steadily throughout the 1980s and early 1990s raising $900 million from 1987 through 1996 across NEA's next four funds. Beginning with NEA-8 in 1998, the firm greatly increased the size of its investment funds. NEA's tenth fund had $2.3 billion of investor commitments in 2000. After raising a more modest $1.1 billion in 2004 for the firm's eleventh fund, NEA was able to raise $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion for its next two funds, respectively.\nIn 2010, NEA launched its thirteenth investment fund with $2.5 billion of investor capital, the largest since the Financial crisis of 2007–08.\nIn 2012, NEA closed its fourteenth investment fund with $2.6 billion of investor capital. \nIn April 2015, NEA closed its fifteenth investment fund with $3.1 billion in investor capital - the largest venture capital fund ever raised. In June 2017, NEA closed its sixteenth investment fund with $3.3 billion in investor capital - again the largest venture capital fund ever raised.\n\nIn 2018, former CEO of General Electric, Jeff Immelt, joined the firm as a venture partner.\n\nThe firm's investments include Formlabs, Masterclass, 23andMe, 3com, Appian, Bitglass, Bloom Energy, Box, Braintree, Boingo Wireless, Box, Burrow, Buzzfeed, CareerBuilder, CCP Games, Choosy, Climate Corporation, Cloudflare, Coursera, Cvent, Desktop Metal, Diapers.com, Drop, Duolingo, Enigma, Forter, Fusion-io, Groupon, Gilt Groupe, Global Savings Group, Houzz, Jet.com, Juniper Networks, The Learning Company, Lot18, Macromedia, MapD Technologies, MongoDB, MuleSoft, Nicira, Opower, Pentaho, Raise Marketplace, Robinhood Markets, Salesforce.com, ScienceLogic, Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, Snap Inc., Spreadtrum, Swiftype, Tableau Software, The Players' Tribune, Tempus, TiVo, Topera Medical, Uber, UUNET, Vonage, WebMD, Workday, and ZeroFOX.\n\n"}
{"id": "23803009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23803009", "title": "Opportunistic breeder", "text": "Opportunistic breeder\n\nFlexible or opportunistic breeders mate whenever the conditions of their environment become favorable. Their ability and motivation to mate are primarily independent of day-length (photoperiod) and instead rely on cues from short-term changes in local conditions like rainfall, food abundance and temperature. Another factor is the presence of suitable breeding sites, which may only form with heavy rain or other environmental changes.\n\nThus, they are distinct from seasonal breeders that rely on changes in day length to induce entry into estrus and to cue mating, and continuous breeders like humans that can mate year-round. Other categories of breeders that perhaps can be subdivided under the heading \"opportunistic\" have been used to describe many species, such as many that are anurans like frogs. These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.\n\nMany opportunistic breeders are non-mammals. Those that are mammals tend to be small rodents.\n\nSince changes in season can coincide with favorable changes in environment, the distinction between seasonal breeder and opportunistic can be muddled. In equatorial climes, the change in seasons is not always perceptible and thus, changes in day length not remarkable. Thus, the tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus) previously categorized as a seasonal breeder is now suspected to be an opportunistic breeder.\n\nAdditionally, opportunists can have qualities of seasonal breeders. The red crossbill exhibits a preference (not a requirement) for long-day seasonality, but requires other factors, especially food abundance and social interactions, in order to breed. Conversely, food availability by itself incompletely promotes reproductive development.\n\nOpportunistic breeders are typically capable of breeding at any time or becoming fertile within a short period of time. An example is the golden spiny mouse where changes in dietary salt in its desert habitat due to rainfall appear to cue reproductive function. Increased levels of salinity in drying vegetation cause females to experience a reproductive hiatus.\n\nWhile reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.\n\n\n\nFrogs and toads including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2253499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253499", "title": "Past life regression", "text": "Past life regression\n\nPast life regression is a technique that uses hypnosis to recover what practitioners believe are memories of past lives or incarnations, though others regard them as fantasies or delusions or a type of confabulation. Past-life regression is typically undertaken either in pursuit of a spiritual experience, or in a psychotherapeutic setting. Most advocates loosely adhere to beliefs about reincarnation, though religious traditions that incorporate reincarnation generally do not include the idea of repressed memories of past lives.\n\nThe technique used during past-life regression involves the subject answering a series of questions while hypnotized to reveal identity and events of alleged past lives, a method similar to that used in recovered memory therapy and one that similarly misrepresents memory as a faithful recording of previous events rather than a constructed set of recollections. The use of hypnosis and suggestive questions can tend to leave the subject particularly likely to hold distorted or false memories. The source of the memories is more likely cryptomnesia and confabulations that combine experiences, knowledge, imagination and suggestion or guidance from the hypnotist than recall of a previous existence. Once created, the memories are indistinguishable from memories based on events that occurred during the subject's life. Memories reported during past-life regression have been investigated, and revealed historical inaccuracies that are easily explained through a basic knowledge of history, elements of popular culture or books that discuss historical events. Experiments with subjects undergoing past-life regression indicate that a belief in reincarnation and suggestions by the hypnotist are the two most important factors regarding the contents of memories reported.\n\nIn the 2nd century BC, the Hindu scholar Patañjali, in his Yoga Sutras, discussed the idea of the soul becoming burdened with an accumulation of impressions as part of the karma from previous lives. Patañjali called the process of past-life regression \"prati-prasav\" (literally \"reverse birthing\"), and saw it as addressing current problems through memories of past lives. Some types of yoga continue to use \"prati-prasav\" as a practice.\n\nIn the religious mythology of China the deity Meng Po, also known as the \"Lady of Forgetfullness\", prevents souls from remembering their past lives: she gives them a bittersweet drink that erases all memories before they climb the wheel of reincarnation.\n\nIn the modern era, it was the works of Madame Blavatsky, co-founder of the Theosophical Society, which brought it a new found popularity, especially in the West. French educator Allan Kardec also researched into past life regression in \"The Spirits Book\" and \"Heaven and Hell\". Past life regression therapy has been developed since the 1950s by psychologists, psychiatrists and mediums. The belief gained credibility because some of the advocates possess legitimate credentials, though these credentials were in areas unrelated to religion, psychotherapy or other domains dealing with past lives and mental health. Interest in the phenomenon started due to American housewife Virginia Tighe reporting and recounting the alleged memories of a 19th-century Irish woman named Bridey Murphy; later investigation failed to support the existence of such a woman and the memories were attributed to Tighe's childhood during which she spent time living next to an Irish immigrant with great similarity to the character she described.\n\nPast life regression is widely rejected as a psychiatric treatment by clinical psychiatrists and psychologists. A 2006 survey found that a majority of a sample of doctoral level mental health professionals rated \"Past Lives\" therapy as \"certainly discredited\" as a treatment for mental or behavioral disorders.\n\nIn the West, past-life regression practitioners use hypnosis and suggestion to promote recall in their patients, using a series of questions designed to elicit statements and memories about the past life's history and identity. Some practitioners also use bridging techniques from a client's current-life problem to bring \"past-life stories\" to conscious awareness. Practitioners believe that unresolved issues from alleged past lives may be the cause of their patients' problems. Luis Cordón states that this can be problematic as it creates delusions under the guise of therapy. The memories are experienced as vivid as those based on events experienced in one's life, impossible to differentiate from true memories of actual events, and accordingly any damage can be difficult to undo. However, with psychotherapy clients who believe in past lives, irrespective of whether or not past lives exist, the use of past lives as a tool has been suggested.\n\nChinese numerologists use the Buddhist/Taoist text the \"Three Lives Book\" to describe details of past lives. Teachers of Eastern religion claim to be able to use siddhi or abhijna abilities to regress past lives (pubbenivāsānussati).\n\nPsychologists state that the \"memories\" recovered by techniques like past-life regression are the result of cryptomnesia: narratives created by the subconscious mind using imagination, forgotten information and suggestions from the therapist. Memories created under hypnosis are indistinguishable from actual memories and can be more vivid than factual memories. The greatest predictor of individuals reporting memories of past lives appears to be their beliefs—individuals who believe in reincarnation are more likely to report such memories, while skeptics or disbelievers are less so.\n\nExaminations of three cases of apparent past life regression (Bridey Murphy, Jane Evans, and an unnamed English woman) revealed memories that were superficially convincing. However, investigation by experts in the languages used and historical periods described revealed flaws in all three patients' recall. The evidence included speech patterns that were \"...used by movie makers and writers to convey the flavour of 16th century English speech\" rather than actual Renaissance English, a date that was inaccurate but was the same as a recognized printing error in historical pamphlets, and a subject that reported historically accurate information from the Roman era that was identical to information found in a 1947 novel set in the same time as the individual's memories, with the same name reported by the person regressed. Other details cited are common knowledge and not evidence of the factual nature of the memories; subjects asked to provide historical information that would allow checking provided only vague responses that did not allow for verification, and sometimes were unable to provide critical details that would have been common knowledge (e.g. a subject described the life of a Japanese fighter pilot during World War II but was unable to identify Hirohito as the Emperor of Japan during the 1940s).\n\nA 1976 study found that 40% of hypnotizable subjects described new identities and used different names when given a suggestion to regress past their birth. In the 1990s a series of experiments undertaken by Nicholas Spanos examined the nature of past life memories. Descriptions of alleged past lives were found to be extremely elaborate, with vivid, detailed descriptions. Subjects who reported memories of past lives exhibited high hypnotizability, and patients demonstrated that the expectations conveyed by the experimenter were most important in determining the characteristics of the reported memories. The degree to which the memories were considered credible by the experimental subjects was correlated most significantly to the subjects' beliefs about reincarnation and their expectation to remember a past life rather than hypnotizability. Spanos' research leads him to the conclusion that past lives are not memories, but actually social constructions based on patients acting \"as if\" they were someone else, but with significant flaws that would not be expected of actual memories. To create these memories, Spanos' subjects drew upon the expectations established by authority figures and information outside of the experiment such as television, novels, life experiences and their own desires.\n\nThere have been efforts to scientifically study past lives in journals dedicated to the topic. A \"Strength of Case\" scale attempting to assess the credibility of alleged past life memories has been established, and individual historical claims have been reviewed by historians for accuracy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1612742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612742", "title": "Planetary protection", "text": "Planetary protection\n\nPlanetary protection is a guiding principle in the design of an interplanetary mission, aiming to prevent biological contamination of both the target celestial body and the Earth in the case of sample-return missions. Planetary protection reflects both the unknown nature of the space environment and the desire of the scientific community to preserve the pristine nature of celestial bodies until they can be studied in detail.\n\nThere are two types of interplanetary contamination. Forward contamination is the transfer of viable organisms from Earth to another celestial body. Back contamination is the transfer of extraterrestrial organisms, if such exist, back to the Earth's biosphere.\n\nThe potential problem of lunar and planetary contamination was first raised at the International Astronautical Federation VIIth Congress in Rome in 1956.\n\nIn 1958 the U.S. National Academy of Sciences (NAS) passed a resolution stating, “The National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America urges that scientists plan lunar and planetary studies with great care and deep concern so that initial operations do not compromise and make impossible forever after critical scientific experiments.” This led to creation of the ad hoc Committee on Contamination by Extraterrestrial Exploration (CETEX), which met for a year and recommended that interplanetary spacecraft be sterilized, and stated, “The need for sterilization is only temporary. Mars and possibly Venus need to remain uncontaminated only until study by manned ships becomes possible”.\n\nIn 1959, planetary protection was transferred to the newly formed Committee on Space Research (COSPAR). COSPAR in 1964 issued Resolution 26 affirming that:\n\nIn 1967, the US, USSR, and UK ratified the United Nations Outer Space Treaty. The legal basis for planetary protection lies in Article IX of this treaty:\n\nThis treaty has since been signed and ratified by 104 nation states. Another 24 have signed but not ratified. All the current space-faring nation states have both signed and ratified it. Amongst nations with space faring aspirations, some have not yet ratified: the United Arab Emirates, Syria and North Korea have signed but not yet ratified.\n\nThe Outer Space Treaty has consistent and widespread international support, and as a result of this, together with the fact that it is based on the 1963 declaration which was adopted by consensus in the UN National Assembly, it has taken on the status of customary international law. The provisions of the Outer Space Treaty are therefore binding on all states, even those who have neither signed nor ratified it.\nFor forward contamination, the phrase to be interpreted is \"harmful contamination\". Two legal reviews came to differing interpretations of this clause (both reviews were unofficial). However the currently accepted interpretation is that “any contamination which would result in harm to a state’s experiments or programs is to be avoided”. NASA policy states explicitly that “the conduct of scientific investigations of possible extraterrestrial life forms, precursors, and remnants must not be jeopardized”.\n\nThe Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) meets every two years, in a gathering of 2000 to 3000 scientists, and one of its tasks is to develop recommendations for avoiding interplanetary contamination. Its legal basis is Article IX of the Outer Space Treaty (see history below for details).\n\nIts recommendations depend on the type of space mission and the celestial body explored. COSPAR categorizes the missions into 5 groups:\n\nFor Category IV missions, a certain level of \"biological burden\" is allowed for the mission. In general this is expressed as a 'probability of contamination', required to be less than one chance in 10,000 of forward contamination per mission, but in the case of Mars Category IV missions (above) the requirement has been translated into a count of \"Bacillus\" spores per surface area, as an easy to use assay method.\n\nMore extensive documentation is also required for Category IV. Other procedures required, depending on the mission, may include trajectory biasing, the use of clean rooms during spacecraft assembly and testing, bioload reduction, partial sterilization of the hardware having direct contact with the target body, a bioshield for that hardware, and, in rare cases, complete sterilization of the entire spacecraft.\n\nFor restricted Category V missions, the current recommendation is that no uncontained samples should be returned unless sterilized. Since sterilization of the returned samples would destroy much of their science value, current proposals involve containment and quarantine procedures. For details, see Containment and quarantine below. Category V missions also have to fulfill the requirements of Category IV to protect the target body from forward contamination.\n\nA \"special region\" is a region classified by COSPAR where terrestrial organisms could readily propagate, or thought to have a high potential for existence of Martian life forms. This is understood to apply to any region on Mars where liquid water occurs, or can occasionally occur, based on the current understanding of requirements for life.\n\nIf a hard landing risks biological contamination of a special region, then the whole lander system must be sterilized to COSPAR category IVc.\n\nSome targets are easily categorized. Others are assigned provisional categories by COSPAR, pending future discoveries and research.\n\nThe 2009 COSPAR Workshop on Planetary Protection for Outer Planet Satellites and Small Solar System Bodies covered this in some detail. Most of these assessments are from that report, with some future refinements. This workshop also gave more precise definitions for some of the categories:\n\n\n\n\nProvisionally, they assigned these objects to Category II. However, they state that more research is needed, because there is a remote possibility that the tidal interactions of Pluto and Charon could maintain some water reservoir below the surface. Similar considerations apply to the other larger KBOs.\n\nTriton is insufficiently well understood at present to say it is definitely devoid of liquid water. The only close up observations to date are those of Voyager 2.\n\nIn a detailed discussion of Titan, scientists concluded that there was no danger of contamination of its surface, except short term adding of negligible amounts of organics, but Titan could have a below surface water reservoir that communicates with the surface, and if so, this could be contaminated.\n\nIn the case of Ganymede, the question is, given that its surface shows pervasive signs of resurfacing, is there any communication with its subsurface ocean? They found no known mechanism by which this could happen, and the \"Galileo\" spacecraft found no evidence of cryovolcanism. Initially, they assigned it as Priority B minus, meaning that precursor missions are needed to assess its category before any surface missions. However, after further discussion they provisionally assigned it to Category II, so no precursor missions are required, depending on future research.\n\nIf there is cryovolcanism on Ganymede or Titan, the undersurface reservoir is thought to be 50 – 150 km below the surface. They were unable to find a process that could transfer the surface melted water back down through 50 km of ice to the under surface sea. This is why both Ganymede and Titan were assigned a reasonably firm provisional Category II, but pending results of future research.\n\nIcy bodies that show signs of recent resurfacing need further discussion and might need to be assigned to a new category depending on future research. This approach has been applied, for instance, to missions to Ceres. The planetary protection Category is subject for review during the mission of the Ceres orbiter (\"\"Dawn\"\") depending on the results found.\n\n\nIn the category V for sample return the conclusions so far are:\n\n\nwith others to be decided.\n\nIf there has been no activity for 3 billion years, it will not be possible to destroy the surface by terrestrial contamination, so can be treated as Category I. Otherwise, the category may need to be reassessed.\n\nThe aim of the current regulations is to keep the number of microorganisms low enough so that the probability of contamination of Mars (and other targets) is acceptable. It is not an objective to make the probability of contamination zero.\n\nThe aim is to keep the probability of contamination of 1 chance in 10,000 of contamination per mission flown. This figure is obtained typically by multiplying together the number of microorganisms on the spacecraft, the probability of growth on the target body, and a series of bioload reduction factors.\n\nIn detail the method used is the Coleman-Sagan equation.\n\nformula_1.\n\nwhere \n\nThen the requirement is formula_8\n\nThe formula_9 is a number chosen by Sagan et al., somewhat arbitrarily. Sagan and Coleman assumed that about 60 missions to the Mars surface would occur before the exobiology of Mars is thoroughly understood, 54 of those successful, and 30 flybys or orbiters, and the number was chosen to endure a probability to keep the planet free from contamination of at least 99.9% over the duration of the exploration period.\n\nThe Coleman Sagan equation has been criticised because the individual parameters are often not known to better than a magnitude or so. For example, the thickness of the surface ice of Europa is unknown, and may be thin in places, which can give rise to a high level of uncertainty in the equation. It has also been criticised because of the inherent assumption made of an end to the protection period and future human exploration. In the case of Europa, this would only protect it with reasonable probability for the duration of the period of exploration.\n\nGreenberg has suggested an alternative, to use the natural contamination standard - that our missions to Europa should not have a higher chance of contaminating it than the chance of contamination by meteorites from Earth.\n\nAnother approach for Europa is the use of binary decision trees which is favoured by the \"Committee on Planetary Protection Standards for Icy Bodies in the Outer Solar System\" under the auspices of the Space Studies Board. This goes through a series of seven steps, leading to a final decision on whether to go ahead with the mission or not.\n\nIn the case of restricted Category V missions, Earth would be protected through quarantine of sample and astronauts in a yet to be built Biosafety level 4 facility. In the case of a Mars sample return, missions would be designed so that no part of the capsule that encounters the Mars surface is exposed to the Earth environment. One way to do that is to enclose the sample container within a larger outer container from Earth, in the vacuum of space. The integrity of any seals is essential and the system must also be monitored to check for the possibility of micro-meteorite damage during return to Earth.\n\nThe recommendation of the ESF report is that \n\nNo restricted category V returns have been carried out. During the Apollo program, the sample-returns were regulated through the Extra-Terrestrial Exposure Law. This was rescinded in 1991, so new legislation would need to be enacted. The Apollo era quarantine procedures are of interest as the only attempt to date of a return to Earth of a sample that, at the time, was thought to have a remote possibility of including extraterrestrial life.\n\nSamples and astronauts were quarantined in the Lunar Receiving Laboratory. The methods used would be considered inadequate for containment by modern standards. Also the lunar receiving laboratory would be judged a failure by its own design criteria as the sample return didn't contain the lunar material, with two failure points during the Apollo 11 return mission, at the splashdown and at the facility itself.\n\nHowever the Lunar Receiving Laboratory was built quickly with only two years from start to finish, a time period now considered inadequate. Lessons learned from it can help with design of any Mars sample return receiving facility.\n\nDesign criteria for a proposed Mars Sample Return Facility, and for the return mission, have been developed by the American National Research Council, and the European Space Foundation. They concluded that it could be based on biohazard 4 containment but with more stringent requirements to contain unknown microorganisms possibly as small as or smaller than the smallest Earth microorganisms known, the ultramicrobacteria. The ESF study also recommended that it should be designed to contain the smaller gene transfer agents if possible, as these could potentially transfer DNA from martian microorganisms to terrestrial microorganisms if they have a shared evolutionary ancestry. It also needs to double as a clean room facility to protect the samples from terrestrial contamination that could confuse the sensitive life detection tests that would be used on the samples.\n\nBefore a sample return, new quarantine laws would be required. Environmental assessment would also be required, and various other domestic and international laws not present during the Apollo era would need to be negotiated.\n\nFor all spacecraft missions requiring decontamination, the starting point is clean room assembly in US federal standard class 100 cleanrooms. These are rooms with fewer than 100 particles of size 0.5 µm or larger per cubic foot. Engineers wear cleanroom suits with only their eyes exposed. Components are sterilized individually before assembly, as far as possible, and they clean surfaces frequently with alcohol wipes during assembly. Spores of \"Bacillus subtilis\" was chosen for not only its ability to readily generate spores, but its well-established use as a model species. It is a useful tracker of UV irradiation effects because of its high resilience to a variety of extreme conditions. As such it is an important indicator species for forward contamination in the context of planetary protection.\n\nFor Category IVa missions (Mars landers that do not search for Martian life), the aim is to reduce the bioburden to 300,000 bacterial spores on any surface from which the spores could get into the Martian environment. Any heat tolerant components are heat sterilized to 114 °C. Sensitive electronics such as the core box of the rover including the computer, are sealed and vented through high-efficiency filters to keep any microbes inside.\n\nFor more sensitive missions such as Category IVc (to Mars special regions), a far higher level of sterilization is required. These need to be similar to levels implemented on the Viking landers, which were sterilized for a surface which, at the time, was thought to be potentially hospitable to life similar to special regions on Mars today.\n\nIn microbiology, it is usually impossible to prove that there are no microorganisms left viable, since many microorganisms are either not yet studied, or not cultivable. Instead, sterilization is done using a series of tenfold reductions of the numbers of microorganisms present. After a sufficient number of tenfold reductions, the chance that there any microorganisms left will be extremely low.\n\nThe two Viking Mars landers were sterilized using dry heat sterilization. After preliminary cleaning to reduce the bioburden to levels similar to present day Category IVa spacecraft, the Viking spacecraft were heat-treated for 30 hours at 112 °C, nominal 125 °C (five hours at 112 °C was considered enough to reduce the population tenfold even for enclosed parts of the spacecraft, so this was enough for a million-fold reduction of the originally low population).\n\nModern materials however are often not designed to handle such temperatures, especially since modern spacecraft often use \"commercial off the shelf\" components. Problems encountered include nanoscale features only a few atoms thick, plastic packaging, and conductive epoxy attachment methods. Also many instrument sensors cannot be exposed to high temperature, and high temperature can interfere with critical alignments of instruments.\n\nAs a result, new methods are needed to sterilize a modern spacecraft to the higher categories such as Category IVc for Mars, similar to Viking. Methods under evaluation, or already approved, include:\n\n\nSome other methods are of interest as they can sterilize the spacecraft after arrival on the planet.\n\nThe spore count is used as an indirect measure of the number of microorganisms present. Typically 99% of microorganisms by species will be non-spore forming and able to survive in dormant states, and so the actual number of viable dormant microorganisms remaining on the sterilized spacecraft is expected to be many times the number of spore-forming microorganisms.\n\nOne new spore method approved is the \"Rapid Spore Assay\". This is based on commercial rapid assay systems, detects spores directly and not just viable microorganisms and gives results in 5 hours instead of 72 hours.\n\nIt is also long been recognized that spacecraft cleaning rooms harbour polyextremophiles as the only microbes able to survive in them. For example, in a recent study, microbes from swabs of the \"Curiosity\" rover were subjected to desiccation, UV exposure, cold and pH extremes. Nearly 11% of the 377 strains survived more than one of these severe conditions.\n\nThis does not mean that these microbes have contaminated Mars. This is just the first stage of the process of bioburden reduction. To contaminate Mars they also have to survive the low temperature, vacuum, UV and ionizing radiation during the months long journey to Mars, and then have to encounter a habitat on Mars and start reproducing there. Whether this has happened or not is a matter of probability. The aim of planetary protection is to make this probability as low as possible. The currently accepted target probability of contamination per mission is to reduce it to less than 0.01%, though in the special case of Mars, scientists also rely on the hostile conditions on Mars to take the place of the final stage of heat treatment decimal reduction used for Viking. But with current technology scientists cannot reduce probabilities to zero.\n\nTwo recent molecular methods have been approved for assessment of microbial contamination on \nspacecraft surfaces.\n\n\nThis particularly applies to orbital missions, Category III, as they are sterilized to a lower standard than missions to the surface. It is also relevant to landers, as an impact gives more opportunity for forward contamination, and impact could be on an unplanned target, such as a special region on Mars.\n\nThe requirement for an orbital mission is that it needs to remain in orbit for at least 20 years after arrival at Mars with probability of at least 99% and for 50 years with probability at least 95%. This requirement can be dropped if the mission is sterilized to Viking sterilization standard.\n\nIn the Viking era (1970s), the requirement was given as a single figure, that any orbital mission should have a probability of less than 0.003% probability of impact during the current exploratory phase of exploration of Mars.\n\nFor both landers and orbiters, the technique of trajectory biasing is used during approach to the target. The spacecraft trajectory is designed so that if communications are lost, it will miss the target.\n\nDespite these measures there has been one notable failure of impact prevention. The Mars Climate Orbiter which was sterilized only to Category III, crashed on Mars in 1999 due to a mix-up of imperial and metric units. The office of planetary protection stated that it is likely that it burnt up in the atmosphere, but if it survived to the ground, then it could cause forward contamination.\n\nMars Observer is another Category III mission with potential planetary contamination. Communications were lost three days before its orbital insertion maneuver in 1993. It seems most likely it did not succeed in entering into orbit around Mars and simply continued past on a heliocentric orbit. If it did succeed in following its automatic programming, and attempted the manoeuvre, however, there is a chance it crashed on Mars.\n\nThree landers have had hard landings on Mars. These are \"Schiaparelli EDM lander\", the \"Mars Polar Lander\", and \"Deep Space 2\". These were all sterilized for surface missions but not for special regions (Viking pre-sterilization only). \"Mars Polar Lander\", and \"Deep Space 2\" crashed into the polar regions which are now treated as special regions because of the possibility of forming liquid brines.\n\nAlberto G. Fairén and Dirk Schulze-Makuch published an article in \"Nature\" recommending that planetary protection measures need to be scaled down. They gave as their main reason for this, that exchange of meteorites between Earth and Mars means that any life on Earth that could survive on Mars has already got there and vice versa.\n\nRobert Zubrin used similar arguments in favour of his view that the back contamination risk has no scientific validity.\n\nThe meteorite argument was examined by the NRC in the context of back contamination. It is thought that all the Martian meteorites originate in relatively few impacts every few million years on Mars. The impactors would be kilometers in diameter and the craters they form on Mars tens of kilometers in diameter. Models of impacts on Mars are consistent with these findings.\n\nEarth receives a steady stream of meteorites from Mars, but they come from relatively few original impactors, and transfer was more likely in the early Solar System. Also some life forms viable on both Mars and on Earth might be unable to survive transfer on a meteorite, and there is so far no direct evidence of any transfer of life from Mars to Earth in this way.\n\nThe NRC concluded that though transfer is possible, the evidence from meteorite exchange does not eliminate the need for back contamination protection methods.\n\nImpacts on Earth able to send microorganisms to Mars are also infrequent. Impactors of 10 km across or larger can send debris to Mars through the Earth's atmosphere but these occur rarely, and were more common in the early Solar System.\n\nIn their 2013 paper \"The Over Protection of Mars\", Alberto Fairén and Dirk Schulze-Makuch suggested that we no longer need to protect Mars, essentially using Zubrin's meteorite transfer argument. This was rebutted in a follow up article \"Appropriate Protection of Mars\", in \"Nature\" by the current and previous planetary protection officers Catherine Conley and John Rummel.\n\nThe scientific consensus is that the potential for large-scale effects, either through pathogenesis or ecological disruption, is extremely small. Nevertheless, returned samples from Mars will be treated as potentially biohazardous until scientists can determine that the returned samples are safe. The goal is to reduce the probability of release of a Mars particle to less than one in a million.\n\nA COSPAR workshop in 2010, looked at issues to do with protecting areas from non biological contamination. They recommended that COSPAR expand its remit to include such issues. Recommendations of the workshop include:\n\nSome ideas proposed include protected special regions, or \"Planetary Parks\" to keep regions of the Solar System pristine for future scientific investigation, and also for ethical reasons.\n\nAstrobiologist Christopher McKay has argued that until we have better understanding of Mars, our explorations should be biologically reversible. For instance if all the microorganisms introduced to Mars so far remain dormant within the spacecraft, they could in principle be removed in the future, leaving Mars completely free of contamination from modern Earth lifeforms.\n\nIn the 2010 workshop one of the recommendations for future consideration was to extend the period for contamination prevention to the maximum viable lifetime of dormant microorganisms introduced to the planet.\n\nIn the case of Europa, a similar idea has been suggested, that it is not enough to keep it free from contamination during our current exploration period. It might be that Europa is of sufficient scientific interest that the human race has a duty to keep it pristine for future generations to study as well. This was the majority view of the 2000 task force examining Europa, though there was a minority view of the same task force that such strong protection measures are not required.\n\nIn July 2018, the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine issued a \"Review and Assessment of Planetary Protection Policy Development Processes.\" In part, the report urges NASA to create a broad strategic plan that covers both forward and back contamination. The report also expresses concern about private industry missions, for which there is no governmental regulatory authority.\n\nThe proposal by the German physicist Claudius Gros, that the technology of the Breakthrough Starshot project may be utilized to establish a biosphere of unicellular organisms on otherwise only transiently habitable exoplanets, has sparked a discussion, to what extent planetary protection should be extended to exoplanets.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6110182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6110182", "title": "Pyelectasis", "text": "Pyelectasis\n\nPyelectasis is a dilation of the renal pelvis. It is a relatively common ultrasound finding in fetuses and is three times more common in male fetuses. In most cases pyelectasis resolves normally, having no ill effects on the baby. The significance of pyelectasis in fetuses is not clear. It was thought to be a marker for obstruction, but in most cases it resolves spontaneously. In some studies it has been shown to appear and disappear several times throughout the course of pregnancy. There is some discussion about what degree of pyelectasis is considered severe enough to warrant further investigation and most authorities use 6mm as the cut-off point.\n\nPyelectasis is considered to be a \"soft marker” for Down syndrome. This, along with other factors such as age and abnormal maternal serum screening (exa, Integrated or Quad screen), may be grounds for a prenatal diagnostic test such as an amniocentesis to rule out Down syndrome. \n\nBabies with unresolved pyelectasis may experience urological problems requiring surgery.\n\nThe word \"pyelectasis\" () is derived from the prefix \"pyelo-\", meaning \"[renal] pelvis\", and \"ectasis\", meaning \"dilation or distension\". \n\n"}
{"id": "17085203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17085203", "title": "Rrahman Morina", "text": "Rrahman Morina\n\nRrahman Morina (; 1943 – 12 October 1990) was a Yugoslav police officer and communist politician. A Kosovo Albanian, he is remembered as being an opponent of Albanian separatism. \n\nMorina had a career as an agent of the Ministry of Interior of SFR Yugoslavia, and later on as a party official in the League of Communists of Kosovo. He rose through the ranks and was in 1981 appointed as Kosovo's interior minister, and thereby held the top law enforcement office in the province. In March the same year, in the wake of the 1981 riots in Kosovo, he called in the national police to quell the uprising, without informing or consulting the provincial government. This act contributed to the resignation of Kosovan party boss Mahmut Bakalli, as the latter did not prove himself accountable enough in the eyes of the government in Belgrade.\n\nIn 1988, Morina was installed as leader of the Kosovan wing of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia, due to the \"anti-bureaucratic revolution\", Milošević-orchestrated removal of Azem Vllasi and Kaqusha Jashari from the Kosovan party leadership, as he was one of very few non-Slavic opponents of tendencies of Kosovo Albanian separatism. \n\nMorina came to be seen as a pliant proxy of the Serbian leader Slobodan Milošević, although Milošević initially despised Morina. The Serbian leader once went to the Yugoslavian president Lazar Mojsov, furiously demanding Morina's removal from the Kosovan government (and the rest of it). Milošević even threatened to resign from his office as leader of the League of Communists of Serbia, if Morina was not ousted. In 1989 Morina resigned from Kosovo's political structures during the miners' strike.\n\nHe died in 1990, at the age of 47, under suspicious circumstances in Pristina, while attending the constituent convention of the Kosovan branch of the Socialist Party of Serbia. The official death cause was labelled a heart attack, but persistent rumors says he was actually poisoned at the convention.\n\nHe was married to Bratislava \"Buba\" Morina, a Serbian lawyer, government minister, and Commissioner for Refugees of Serbia. \n\n"}
{"id": "38896498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38896498", "title": "Snub hexaoctagonal tiling", "text": "Snub hexaoctagonal tiling\n\nIn geometry, the snub hexaoctagonal tiling is a semiregular tiling of the hyperbolic plane. There are three triangles, one hexagon, and one octagon on each vertex. It has Schläfli symbol of \"sr{8,6}\".\n\nDrawn in chiral pairs, with edges missing between black triangles:\n\nFrom a Wythoff construction there are fourteen hyperbolic uniform tilings that can be based from the regular order-6 octagonal tiling. \n\nDrawing the tiles colored as red on the original faces, yellow at the original vertices, and blue along the original edges, there are 7 forms with full [8,6] symmetry, and 7 with subsymmetry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "457932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=457932", "title": "The Sky So Big and Black", "text": "The Sky So Big and Black\n\nThe Sky So Big and Black is a science fiction novel by John Barnes that was published in 2002. The title itself refers to the clear sky as seen from the surface of Mars, to the nearness of the Martian horizon because Mars is a much smaller planet, and to the abrupt absence/darkness of many overhead satellites that occurs at a key point in the story. The whole story takes place on Mars, which was first settled around 2030 in the timeframe of this series (see Barnes's novels \"Orbital Resonance\" and \"Kaleidoscope Century\"). This novel takes place in (the mid-to-late 2090s) when humans have settled en masse, in at least three large waves of settlement.\n\nThis story alternates between the point of view of Terpsichore Melpomene Murray (\"Teri\"), an ecoprospector who's approaching adulthood on Mars and seeks to follow in her father's footsteps, and the unnamed psychiatrist who is listening to her story. Several decades earlier, refugees from Earth fled to join a pre-existing human colony on Mars to escape the domination of \"One True\", a massively parallel/cellular automata program that runs on the interconnected brains of most of the human beings on Earth; the program in the individual human brain is called Resuna, probably a contraction from the Latin for One Thing. If a human mind has a copy of Resuna, it may remain dormant until a human speaks the trigger phrase \"let overwrite, let override.\"\n\nThe first half of the novel is mostly backstory in Teri's voice, leading up to the day when she passed her test for \"full adulthood\", a legal status that can apparently be reached at any age by passing an educational and psychiatric exam, which gives her the right to marry, hold property, vote, and so forth. Teri hopes to be an ecospector (eco-prospector) like her father Telemachus, living on the surface in a pressure suit most of the time; but because in the last generation the colonists decided to forgo terraforming Mars to suit human life and instead adapt humans to suit the Martian environment, the future of ecospecting doesn't look good to Telemachus; he thinks the future of Mars is with the \"Nations\" of Mars-formed humans. It's estimated that modifying people can be done in just two to three generations, whereas terraforming Mars might take thousands of years. Thus he wants her to get an advanced degree and go into some always-needed occupation like science or medicine.\n\nWhen they strike a \"scorehole\", a very large deposit of methane and water, their fortune seems assured, and Teri expects to marry the boy she has been courting; when it turns out he has married someone else, she grumpily agrees to one more year of school at least, and she and Telemachus take on the job of shepherding a group of younger children to the school at Red Sands City. While the party are in the roundings (the frontier, bush, or outback—possibly from \"surroundings\" or \"roundabouts\"?) a major solar flare occurs, and because Mars' thin atmosphere and weak magnetic field provide less protection against high-energy particles than on Earth, this event overloads many electronics systems on Mars, as well as damaging the \"exosuit\" (space suit) systems of many people who are outdoors and otherwise unprotected, so that several members of the party are killed, including Telemachus. Furthermore, the GPS-like navigation system Teri has used all her life is permanently down.\n\nTeri and Alik, a boy in the party, re-invent celestial navigation and reach the nearest railhead, where there is a working phone, only to find that the disaster is planetwide and help will not be coming soon. Worse yet, a group of Marsform humans are stranded farther up the track and in danger of starving due to their ultrafast metabolisms. Despite her bigotry against the Nations, Teri tries to take food to them in a backpack, but collapses and breaks her leg. A mysterious voice on her suit radio soothes and comforts her, takes over her body, and causes her to wreck her body getting food to the Marsforms; she has been taken over by Resuna. We now learn why the psychiatrist himself has been listening to her story; they are recording it so she can have some idea of what happened in the big gaps he is going to create in her memory while erasing Resuna. He himself has had this process twice.\n\nFurther, we learn that this is all information from the past, that in fact he has been re-infected with Resuna, and so has Teri, and that they will both lose all memory of each other and of the many events, including much of her last memories of her father. So although they have been close friends, in the last chapter they are re-introduced to each other for the first time. The novel ends with their working as ecospecting partners, as Mars rebuilds.\n\n"}
{"id": "11090023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11090023", "title": "Tinguiririca fauna", "text": "Tinguiririca fauna\n\nThe fossil Tinguiririca fauna, entombed in volcanic mudflows and ash layers at the onset of the Oligocene, about 33-31.5 million years ago, represents a unique snapshot of the history of South America's endemic fauna, which was extinguished when the former island continent was joined to North America by the rising Isthmus of Panama. The fossil-bearing sedimentary layers of the Abanico Formation were first discovered in the valley of the Tinguiririca River, high in the Andes of central Chile. The faunal assemblage lends its name to the Tinguirirican stage in the South American land mammal age (SALMA) classification.\n\nThe endemic fauna bridges a massive gap in the history of those mammals that were unique to South America. Paleontologists knew the earlier sloth and anteater forebears of 40 mya, but no fossils from this previously poorly sampled transitional age had been seen. Fossils of the Tinguiririca fauna include the chinchilla-like earliest rodents discovered in South America, a wide range of the hoofed herbivores called notoungulates, a shrew-like marsupial and ancestors of today's sloth and armadillos. Many of the herbivores have teeth adapted to grass-eating; though no plant fossils have been recovered, the high-crowned hypsodont teeth, protected by tough enamel well below the gumline, identifies grazers suited to a gritty diet. \"The proportion of hypsodont taxa relative to other dental types generally increases with the amount of open habitat,\" John Flynn explained in \"Scientific American\" (May 2007) \"and the Tinguiririca level of hysodonty surpasses even that observed for mammals living in modern, open habitats such as the Great Plains of North America.\" Statistical analyses of the number of species categorized by body size (\"cenogram\" analysis, an aspect of body size scaling) and of their broad ecological niches (\"macroniche\" analysis) bears out the existence of dry grasslands. Previously, no grassland ecosystem anywhere had been identified prior to Miocene systems fifteen million years later than the Tinguiririca fauna. Grasslands spread as the Earth's paleoclimate grew cooler and drier.\n\nNew fossils were uncovered of the New World monkeys and caviomorph rodents— the group that includes the capybara— which are known not to have evolved \"in situ\". Some of the new fossils demonstrate by the form of their teeth that they lie closer to African fossil relatives than to the North American ones, which previously had been assumed to have rafted to the island continent. Now it appears that some may have made the crossing of a younger, much narrower Atlantic Ocean. A notable discovery was the miniature skull of a delicate progenitor of New World marmosets and tamarins; it has been given the name \"Chilecebus carrascoensis\".\n\nThe first of the fossils were found in 1988. Since then, in strata representing repeated catastrophic lahar events, more than 1500 individual fossils have been recovered from multiple sites in the region, ranging in age from 40 to 10 mya. The mammal species \"Archaeotypotherium tinguiriricaense\" is named after the site.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44029942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44029942", "title": "Toughie (frog)", "text": "Toughie (frog)\n\nToughie was the last known living Rabbs' fringe-limbed treefrog. The species, scientifically known as \"Ecnomiohyla rabborum\", is thought to be extinct, as the last specimen—Toughie—died in captivity on September 26, 2016.\n\nToughie was captured as an adult in Panama in 2005, when researchers went on a conservation mission to rescue species from \"Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis\", a fungus deadly to amphibians. Toughie was one of \"several dozen\" frogs and tadpoles of the same species to be transported back to the United States.\n\nToughie lived at the Atlanta Botanical Garden in Georgia. At the Garden, he was placed in a special containment area called the \"frogPOD\", a biosecure enclosure. Visitors to the Garden are not allowed to visit the frogPOD, as it is used to house critically endangered animals. While in captivity at the Garden, Toughie sired tadpoles with a female, but none survived. After the female died, the only other known specimen in the world was a male, leaving Toughie no other options of reproducing. The other male, who lived at the Zoo Atlanta, was euthanized on February 17, 2012, due to health concerns.\n\nSince Toughie was brought in as an adult to the Garden, they do not know his age but estimated that he was about 12 years old. On December 15, 2014, Toughie was recorded vocalizing again. It is his first known call since being collected as an adult in 2005.\n\nToughie died on September 26, 2016 at the Garden.\n\nToughie was given his name by Mark Mandica's son Anthony. Mark Mandica was Toughie's caretaker for many years at the Atlanta Botanical Garden. \nToughie did not like to be handled. He would pinch a handler's hand in an attempt to \"say 'let me go'\", according to handler Leslie Phillips. She continued with, \"For me it is incredibly motivating working with the Rabbs' frog. Having him here is a constant reminder of what can potentially happen to other species if we don't continue the conservation work that we do here at the Atlanta Botanical Garden. Honestly, it is also nerve-racking at times working with him. It can be a challenging balance between leaving him alone as much as possible to avoid undue stress, while still providing the best possible care... He is just really cool. No other frog I have seen is quite like him. He is muscular and has giant webbed feet and big eyes ... He is a very handsome frog.\" Handlers tried to touch him as little as possible, but they did weigh him once a week to keep track of his health.\n\nIn July 2013, \"National Geographic\" featured Toughie and his species in their magazine. It is part of the 'Photo Ark' project run by photographer Joel Sartore. They also focused on the Atlanta Botanical Garden's Amphibian Conservation Program.\n\nIn 2014, Louie Psihoyos filmed Toughie for his 2015 film \"Racing Extinction\", including footage of Sartore photographing him. To promote the film and the extinction crisis, a 30-story series of photographs was projected onto the side of the United Nations Building in New York City in September 2014. Included was a photograph of Toughie.\n\n"}
{"id": "5766956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5766956", "title": "Wimpel", "text": "Wimpel\n\nA wimpel (, from German, \"cloth,\" derived from Old German, \"bewimfen,\" meaning \"to cover up\" or \"conceal\") is a long, linen sash used as a binding for the Sefer Torah by Jews of Germanic (Yekke) origin. It is made from the cloth used to swaddle a baby boy at his bris milah, uniting the communal world of the synagogue with the individual's own life cycle.\n\nThe wimpel is an offshoot of a common Jewish practice. In the times of the Tannaim, all Torah scrolls were wrapped only with a cloth, known in Hebrew as a “mappah,” or in German, a “wimpel.” As with other holy Judaic objects, donating a mappah was considered to be a great mitzvah and honor, and very often a groom would donate one on the eve of his wedding. Most of these were made from old clothing. While some Rabbis approved of this practice, others did not because they felt that it was not proper respect for the Torah. Unlike these controversial “second-hand” mappot, the cloth used at a baby’s circumcision was undoubtedly holy, and it gradually became the custom to donate these as mappot.\n\nThere are many variations as to what takes place at the actual wimpel ceremony. One common approach is to bring it to synagogue when the boy turns three and is toilet-trained. He and his father get the aliyah of gelilah, and together they wrap the wimpel around the Torah. (Variations include the child's age, the type of aliyah, and the extent of the child's participation in the actual ceremony.) Afterwards, the family invites the community to join them for a kiddush, a small celebratory party.\n\nThis custom is still observed today by most members of the German community. It is an extremely joyous occasion, and its main purpose is to instill a love and enthusiasm for shul and Judaism within the child.\n\nSome attribute the origins of the custom to a story recorded about a time when the Maharil was the sandek. It is customary to wrap a baby’s legs after the circumcision to prevent him from moving around and knocking the bandages out of place. On this particular occasion, the circumciser, known as the \"mohel\", suddenly realized that he had forgotten to bring along the cloth for the baby's legs. The Maharil felt that this was a life-threatening situation, and he instructed the mohel to use a spare mappah from one of the synagogue’s Torahs as the cloth. The Maharil also told the child's parents to wash it once they were done with it and return it to the synagogue with a minor contribution. However, there are reasons to believe that the practice of using the cloth from the circumcision predates the Maharil, and the story is only of interest to illustrate that the cloth, even after being sanctified with the holiness of the Sefer Torah, may be used for the wrapping of the baby at the circumcision. See Rabbi Rabbi Binyamin Shlomo Hamburger's Shoroshei Minhag Ashkenaz for more details about this discussion.\nThis incident highlighted the connection between the Torah and circumcision, as both relate to covenants that the Jewish people have with God (the covenants of Torah and circumcision). The custom gradually developed into the one that is practiced today by German Jews: At a baby's circumcision, the mohel places a long swatch of white cloth - the wimpel – under the pillow. Afterwards, the wimpel is beautifully decorated – it can be either painted or embroidered – with the child’s name, date of birth, and the Hebrew phrase which states “Just like he entered the [covenant of] circumcision, so too he should [the covenant of] Torah, marriage, and good deeds.” Some mothers do the artwork themselves; others retain the services of “wimpel professionals,” e.g., men or women who do this as a side job or hobby.\n\nAnother explanation comes from an 80-year-old lady who remembers a ceremony from her synagogue in Germany, where the young child was brought to the synagogue once he was free of diapers, and the women would throw the Wimpel on the torah, while the men carried the torah below ezrat nashim.\n\nThe Wimpel was then dedicated to the synagogue, symbolizing the fact the child is now pure, and can take part in the service.\n\nThe wimpel is created shortly after the brit milah using the swaddling cloth that was used at that ceremony. The cloth is cleaned, cut into strips and sewn into a sash measuring six or seven inches wide and ten or twelve feet long. The child’s Hebrew name and date of birth are painted or embroidered onto the cloth, usually by the mother or grandmother, along with the traditional blessing:\n\n\nColorful images such as animals, birds and astrological signs, and scenes pertaining to the blessing – such as a bride and groom under the chuppah and a Sefer Torah – have also adorned modern and old-world wimpels.\n\nWhen the child comes of age to begin learning Torah (age 3), he and his family bring the wimpel to the synagogue for Shabbat morning services. After the Torah reading, the child performs the ritual of gelila, perhaps with the help of his father, by wrapping the wimpel many times around the Torah scroll and tucking the end of the cloth into the folds. In this way, the child’s individual responsibilities to God and His commandments are literally wrapped around his communal responsibilities, a figurative lesson for the child and his family.\n\nRabbi Shimon Schwab, Rav of Khal Adath Yeshurun synagogue in Washington Heights, New York, which revived the custom among the younger generation of Yekke congregants, suggested that perhaps the source of the wimpel custom was to avoid knotting and unknotting a tie around the Torah on Shabbat (\"see\" the 39 categories of activity prohibited on the Sabbath).\n\nOn that first Shabbat that the wimpel is presented and used, the child's family makes a kiddush in honor of their son's entering into a life of Torah.\n\nThe synagogue typically receives many more wimpels than Torah scrolls. The wimpels are often stored in a drawer in the Ark. A boy's wimpel would then be placed on the Torah on other special occasions in his life, such as his Bar Mitzvah, Aufruf, and other important family events.\n\nSome wimpels were even used as a decorative banner on the chuppah itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "40389785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40389785", "title": "Şerife Bacı", "text": "Şerife Bacı\n\nŞerife Bacı (literally: Sister Şerife), aka Şerife Kadın for \"Mrs. Şerife\", (born c. 1900 – died December 1921) was a Turkish folk heroine, who took part in the Turkish War of Independence, and was declared a martyr due to her death during the war.\n\nShe was born in a village in the Seydiler district of Kastamonu Vilayet. Her birth date is not known for certain. However, she was sixteen years old when she got married. Two months after her wedding, World War I broke out, and her husband was recruited. Six months later, she learnt of the death of her husband in the Gallipoli Campaign (1915–16). The villagers arranged her re-marriage to a wounded war veteran named Topal Yusuf (literally: Yusuf the Lame), who had lost his left leg and an eye in a bomb explosion at the front. In the third year of her re-marriage, Şerife Gelin (literally: Bride Şerife) as she was called, gave birth to a daughter named Elif. Şerife was a helpful person for almost everyone and every work in the village.\n\nIn the winter of 1921, the villagers were called to help transport ammunition needed in the Greco-Turkish War. She was on a trek together with her child and some other women carrying cannonballs on her oxen-driven tumbrel from İnebolu to Ankara. She was found dead shortly before the Kastamonu Barracks, perished from cold due to severe winter conditions in December 1921.\n\nIn memorial of the 50th anniversary of the foundation of the Republic, the district mayor of Seydiler built 1973 a relief in her honor. In 1990, a monument by Tankut Öktem depicting Atatürk, Şerife Bacı and the women of Kastamonu in the War of Independence was placed in the Republic Square of the city. A monument in honor of \"Martyr Şerife Bacı\" was erected in the public park on the coast of İnebolu, commissioned by the General Commander of the Gendarmerie Aytaç Yalman and created by sculptor Metin Yurdanur. Its inauguration took place on December 4, 2001.\n\nMartyr Şerife Bacı is a symbol of the heroic Turkish women in the War of Independence.\n\nMany institutions such as schools and hospitals are named after her in Kastamonu and other cities in Turkey.\n\nIn February 2012, twelve of the initially planned forty women from Kastamonu hiked the distance of from İnebolu to Kastamonu in three days under winter conditions to commemorate Şerife Bacı's deadly trek 91 years ago.\n"}
