{"id": "4660598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4660598", "title": "Alexander Adie", "text": "Alexander Adie\n\nAlexander James Adie FRSE MWS (1775, Edinburgh – 4 December 1858, Edinburgh) was a Scottish maker of medical instruments, optician and meteorologist. He was the inventor of the sympiesometer, patented in 1818.\n\nHe was born the son of John Adie.\n\nHe was apprenticed in 1789 to his uncle John Miller. They later went into business together as Miller and Adie, Mathematical Instrument Makers, which continued until 1822.\n\nHis shop was at 58 Princes Street.\n\nAdie supplied lenses to Joseph Hooker, Charles Darwin and Sir David Brewster and was optician to William IV and to Queen Victoria. He invented the sympiesometer or marine barometer and had a small observatory erected long before there was a public observatory in Edinburgh. He was elected as Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh on 25 January 1819, upon the proposal of Lord F Gray, Sir David Brewster and James Russell.\n\nAdie lived at 10 Regent Terrace, Edinburgh, from 1832 to 1838. He died at Caanan Lodge, in the Morningside district of Edinburgh (now demolished) in December 1858, and was interred in Greyfriars Kirkyard. The grave lies to the south-west of the church, just to the north-east of the Adam mausoleum.\n\nHis daughter married Thomas Henderson (1798–1844). Henderson is buried with Adie but is not listed on the memorial.\n\nAdie's son was born on 16 December 1808 and also named Alexander James Adie after his father.\n\nHe studied at the High School in Edinburgh and then Edinburgh University before training as a civil engineer under James Jardine.\n\nIn 1836 he became Resident Engineer on the Bolton, Chorley and Preston Railway. In 1863 he became Manager of the Edinburgh and Glasgow Railway.\n\nIn February 1846 he followed in his father's footsteps and was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nHe died at his house, Rockville near Linlithgow, on 3 April 1879. He is buried on the south side of St Michael's Church in Linlithgow.\n\n"}
{"id": "4138592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4138592", "title": "B. B. D. Bagh", "text": "B. B. D. Bagh\n\nB.B.D. Bagh, formerly called Dalhousie Square, is the shortened version for Benoy-Badal-Dinesh Bagh. It is the seat of power of the state government, as well as the central business district in Kolkata in Kolkata district in the Indian state of West Bengal.\n\nB.B.D. stands for three young Indian independence freedom fighters — Benoy, Badal and Dinesh — who on 8 December 1930 shot dead the Inspector General of Prisons, N.S. Simpson, in the balconies of the Writers' Building of the then Dalhousie Square. The square had been named after Lord Dalhousie, Governor General of India from 1847 to 1856. At different times it has been called ‘The Green before the Fort’ or Tank Square.\n\nThe B.B.D. Bagh area is near the Hooghly River in the western part of central Kolkata and is a square built around the old Lal Dighi tank. The old fort built by the British was near where the General Post Office now is. The area was in the heart of Kalikata or the White Town in old Calcutta.\n\nB.B.D. Bagh (or Dalhousie Square as it was formerly known) was created as the center of the British East India Company's trading post along the banks of the Hooghly River. Between the river and the tank (now known as Lal Dighi), lay the original Fort William. In the summer of 1756, Nawab Siraj ud-Daulah of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa launched an attack on the British town for the company's decision to strengthen the fortifications around it. The survivors of the attack were sent to a garrison within the fort which spurred an incident infamously known as the Black Hole of Calcutta. The British soon retook the city after the Nawab retreated from the forces of Robert Clive. Within a year, the British East India Company's forces had taken all of Bengal and Calcutta, along with the square, was established as the commercial and political center of British India. \n\nOver the next one and a half centuries, the square grew in importance and influence. It was named after Lord Dalhousie, the Governor-General of India. After the fall of company rule in India, the Writers' Building became the secretariat of the Viceroy of India. A number of corporations and institutions opened offices and headquarters in and around the square, giving it its role as the central business district of the city. In 1912, the capital of British India was officially moved to New Delhi, but the majority of the financial and political institutions in the area remained. \n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century, the Indian Independence Movement began to reach its peak and took a violent turn in Bengal. On the eighth of December 1930, three revolutionaries, Benoy, Badal, and Dinesh, stormed the building and fatally shot the Inspector General of Prisons, N.S. Simpson. The three committed suicide and the square was renamed B.B.D. Bagh in their honor after Indian independence. In 1947, the political establishments were officially handed over to the government of India and the government of the newly formed state of West Bengal. Over the next few decades, Calcutta (as it was known) would go through rapid economic decline, but B.B.D. Bagh would remain the heart of East India.\n\nB.B.D. Bagh is still the commercial and political center of all of East India and many of the business and political institutions from the colonial era still exist. The centerpiece is the Writers' Building which is the secretariat of the Government of the State of West Bengal and houses the office of the Chief Minister of West Bengal. To the west lie the General Post Office, the Royal Insurance Building, the eastern office of the Reserve Bank of India, the headquarters of the Eastern Railway, head office of the Kolkata Port Trust, and a number of other government offices. The native name of the area is '\"Office Para\"'. To the north lie the Royal Exchange Building which houses the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Calcutta Stock Exchange, the Standard Chartered Building, and many financial establishments. The eastern end also houses a number of offices till Chittaranjan Avenue. The area south of the square is home to the Raj Bhavan, which is now the residence of the governor and the former residence of the viceroy and governor-general of India. A number of former British colonial administrative offices, including the former foreign and military secretariats, the Treasury Office, the Telegraph Office, and the Kolkata Town Hall can be found here. This area is also a major commercial district with the offices of HSBC at Hong Kong House and the Great Eastern Hotel. \n\nB.B.D. Bagh can still be considered as one of the best remnants and concentrated zones of British colonial architecture in the world. The square is also characterized by other historical landmarks including St. John's Church, which was one of the first buildings in Calcutta and is modeled on St. Martin-in-the-Fields in London's Trafalgar Square. The church is home to beautiful stained glass windows and paintings as well as the mausoleum of Job Charnock, the man who founded modern Calcutta. B.B.D. Bagh also has a statue of famous philanthropist Maharaja Lakshmeshwar Singh of Darbhanga (1858–1898), sculpted by Edward Onslow Ford.\n\nOverall, the square sees thousands of people arriving from all over the Kolkata metropolitan area to the offices and businesses that have characterized the area for the last three centuries since the establishment of Calcutta.\n\nDalhousie Square was included in the 2004 and 2006 World Monuments Watch by the World Monuments Fund due to \"decades of neglect\". After this listing the international financial services company American Express provided funding through WMF for the square's preservation. A number of buildings in the area have also been listed as heritage buildings and have gone through extensive restorations to bring back the charm of the square. The centerpiece, the Writers' Building, has been temporarily vacated to give way for a massive restoration of the building, which has fallen into disrepair in many areas. \n"}
{"id": "14871259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14871259", "title": "Charles W. Harkness", "text": "Charles W. Harkness\n\nCharles William Harkness (December 17, 1860 – May 1, 1916) was a son of Stephen V. Harkness, an original investor in the company that became Standard Oil, and his second wife, the former Anna M. Richardson.\n\nCharles was born in Monroeville, Ohio on December 17, 1860. His parents were Stephen V. Harkness (1818–1888) and the former Anna Marie Richardson (1837–1926), his father's second wife. He was the brother of Edward Harkness, noted philanthropist and half brother of Lamon V. Harkness. He was a cousin of William L. Harkness.\n\nHis early education was in Cleveland at The Brooks Military Academy. He earned a B.A. from Yale College with the Class of 1883. While at Yale, he was described as \"care-free, happy, irresponsible as the rest of us.\"\n\nOn his father's death in 1888, Charles inherited stock in Standard Oil amounting to the second largest holding in the company, surpassed only by that of the Rockefeller family. Harkness became a director at Standard Oil and was a director of the Southern Pacific Railway Company, the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad, and the Tilden Iron Mining Company, and managed his father's immense holdings.\n\nHarkness purchased the Henry Flagler townhouse at 685 Fifth Ave, New York and also owned a home in Madison, NJ and a winter home in St. Augustine, FL.\n\nOn May 27, 1896, Harkness married Miss Mary Warden in Philadelphia, PA. Mary was the daughter of William G. Warden, who was an early Standard Oil partner, and the granddaughter of industrialist Daniel Bushnell.\n\nHarkness fell seriously ill in fall 1915. After spending part of winter in St.Augustine at his wife's family home at Warden Castle, he returned home to New York, where he died May 1, 1916. Since he had no children, the large portion of his Standard Oil stock was left to his brother Edward S. Harkness. One half his residual estate, his home in New York at 2 West 54th Street and his country home in Madison, NJ (designed by James Gamble Rogers who designed many Harkness buildings) were bequeathed to his wife Mary. He left $100,000 as a token of affection and esteem to his brother Lamon V. Harkness although Lamon had already died a year before Charles' death. Lamon had been quite wealthy in his own right from his inheritance from their father Stephen V. Harkness.\n\nHarkness Tower at Yale is named after Charles W. Harkness. Anna Harkness, his mother, donated $3,000,000 to build the Memorial Quadrangle of dormitories in his memory. Harkness Tower contains the Yale Memorial Carillon, a carillon of 54 bells, the largest of which is inscribed \"In Memory of Charles W. Harkness, Class of 1883, Yale College.\"\n\nThe Cleveland Museum of Art has a $100,000 permanent endowment known as the Charles W. Harkness Endowment Fund, which was created through a donation from his widow, Mary Warden Harkness.\n"}
{"id": "44435092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44435092", "title": "Chief Roughneck Award", "text": "Chief Roughneck Award\n\nThe Chief Roughneck Award has presented annually since 1955 by U.S. Steel Tubular Products, Inc., a subsidiary of United States Steel Corporation. It honors the highest ideals of the petroleum industry and is awarded to honor the achievements and character of a petroleum executive. Recently it has been presented at the annual meeting of the Independent Petroleum Association of America in San Antonio, Texas.\n\nThe bronze Joe Roughneck bust, created by Torg Thompson and presented to each Chief Roughneck recipient, began life in Lone Star Steel Company print advertising.\n\nJoe Roughneck's sculpture has been dedicated in several oil patch parks, saluted by governors, and featured in newspaper and magazine articles.\n\nThe award is recognized as one of the most meaningful honors in the industry; the award and the character behind it symbolize the spirit, determination, leadership and integrity of individuals who have made a lasting impression on the energy industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41806690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41806690", "title": "Christian Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Christian Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nChristian Chamber of Commerce and Industry is an organisation of christian businesspeople in India. It was set up in 2010 to act as platform for Christian businesspeople so that they may benefit from networking and achieving a higher rate of growth. Its headquarters is in Hyderabad India.\n"}
{"id": "41035603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41035603", "title": "Chuwit Chitsakul", "text": "Chuwit Chitsakul\n\nChuwit Chitsakul () is a Thai businessman and politician.\n\nChuwit was born on the 22 October 1937. Chuwit received his accountancy degree from Chulalongkorn University, the oldest university in Thailand. Chuwit is married to Sutraporn Chitsakul (née Lao-Araya) with whom he has seven children and he is also the designated dealer of Toyota Motor Thailand Co.,Ltd. of Phrae Province and Nan Province and also one of major shareholders of Bangkok Expressway Public Company Limited (company dealing with transportation and logistic in Bangkok).\n\nChuwit was a parliamentary candidate of the Ruam Thai Party and was elected to the House of Representatives of Thailand in 1988 as one of the representatives of Phrae Province after winning the by-election and served two terms in the House of Representatives of Thailand alongside Narong Wongwan who also represented Phrae and was the leader of the Ruam Thai Party (later renamed the Solidarity Party). Chuwit Jitsakul's tenure as a representative of Phrae in the House of Representatives of Thailand was from 1988 to 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "22873052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22873052", "title": "Clearing account", "text": "Clearing account\n\nA clearing account is usually a temporary account containing costs or amounts that are to be transferred to another account. An example is the income summary account containing revenue and expense amounts to be transferred to retained earnings at the close of a fiscal period.\n\nOther example of clearing account is excise clearing account.\n"}
{"id": "33239305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33239305", "title": "Court of assistants", "text": "Court of assistants\n\nA Court of Assistants is a council of members belonging to professional, trade, craft or livery organisations. The term originated among the London Livery companies, as 'certain senior members who manage the affairs of the City of London Companies', but may also be used by other trade associations. The Court of Assistants is usually the governing body of these organisations and may include the officials, as in the case of the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers founded in 1631: \"The governing body of the Company is the Court of Assistants, comprising the Master, three Wardens and not less than ten Assistants.\" \n\nAnother example is the Honourable Artillery Company, which has an annual general court open to all members. It meets in March to elect 20 Assistants. The Company is governed in its civil and financial affairs by the court of assistants, which was first established in 1633. \n"}
{"id": "19622554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19622554", "title": "Culpa in contrahendo", "text": "Culpa in contrahendo\n\nCulpa in contrahendo is a Latin expression meaning \"fault in conclusion of a contract\". It is an important concept in contract law for many civil law countries, which recognize a clear duty to negotiate with care, and not to lead a negotiating partner to act to his detriment before a firm contract is concluded. In German contract law, §311 BGB lists a number of steps by which an obligation to pay damages may be created.\n\nBy contrast, in English contract law, and many other common law jurisdictions, there has been stulted judicial acceptance of this concept. The doctrine of estoppel has been mooted by academics as a good model, but judges have refused to let it be a sidestep of the doctrine of consideration, saying estoppel must be a shield not a sword, and calling instead for Parliamentary intervention. On the other hand, in the case of land, proprietary estoppel effectively created obligations regardless of any pre-existing contract. In the United States, however, courts have allowed promissory estoppel to function as a substitute for the consideration doctrine. This movement was stimulated by the acceptance of the concept in section 90 of the first \"Restatement of Contracts\".\n\nRudolf von Jhering is credited with developing the \"culpa in contrahendo\" doctrine. Originally, according to the prevailing interpretation of the German Civil Code, there was no such legal doctrine. The courts saw a gap in the law and used the \"culpa in contrahendo\" doctrine to fill it.\n\nSince the 2001 reform of the law of obligations, \"culpa in contrahendo\" is provided for by statute. (§311(2) in connection with §§280(1) and 241(2) of the German Civil Code).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "979833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979833", "title": "Denis O'Brien", "text": "Denis O'Brien\n\nDenis O'Brien (born 19 April 1958) is an Irish businessman and the founder and owner of Digicel and Communicorp. He was listed among the World's Top 200 Billionaires in 2015 and is also Ireland's richest native-born citizen. His business interests also extend to aircraft leasing (Aergo Capital), utilities support (Actavo), petroleum (Topaz Energy, until 2016), and football (soccer), being a minority shareholder of Celtic F.C.. O'Brien was implicated by the Moriarty Tribunal as having improperly influenced the decision to award a mobile phone license to the Esat Digifone consortium, which he chaired.\n\nO'Brien was born in the city of Cork and grew up in the Ballsbridge area of Dublin. His father was a salesperson for a veterinary pharmaceutical company, and he often accompanied his father on business trips, where he learned how to \"sell and to present\". He attended The High School in Rathgar, and although he was suspended for disciplinary problems, his talent for rugby was such that he was asked to return so that he could participate in a championship for the school.\n\nHe studied politics, history and logic at University College Dublin, graduating in 1977. After winning a scholarship from Boston College while attending UCD, he completed an MBA in corporate finance there in 1982. Upon his return to Dublin, he was employed as an assistant manager in a local bank, but left that job and became a personal assistant to Tony Ryan, owner of an aircraft leasing company.\n\nO'Brien owns Communicorp, a media holding company which operates across Europe, particularly in Ireland where it dominates national radio (apart from RTÉ) including stations like Newstalk and Today FM. \"The New York Times\" has described him as \"the biggest player in Ireland's media landscape\" and notes that \"his Independent News & Media group controls the \"Irish Independent\" as well as the \"Irish Daily Star\", the \"Sunday Independent\", the \"Sunday World\", Dublin's \"Evening Herald\" and regional newspapers,\" through his minority shareholding in the group. According to Fintan O'Toole, O'Brien has \"been allowed to take effective control of the largest Irish newspaper group and of two of [Ireland's] three national talk radio stations.\" O'Brien also owns telecoms provider Digicel, which operates in 31 markets across the Caribbean, Central America and Oceania.\n\nO'Brien established Communicorp in 1989, with the company currently owning 42 radio stations in eight European countries. \n\nO'Brien set up and chaired the Esat Digifone consortium which acquired a mobile phone licence in the 1990s. \nEsat Digifone's bid defeated five other applicants, some of whom included major international operators, in controversial circumstances that became the subject of investigation by the Moriarty Tribunal. The Esat Digifone consortium was 40% owned by O'Brien's interests, 40% owned by Telenor, the Norwegian state telecoms operator, with the balance being owned by International Investment and Underwriting (IIU), an investment vehicle owned by Dermot Desmond.\n\nOn 7 November 1997, Esat Telecom Group plc held an initial public offering and was listed on the Irish Stock Exchange, London Stock Exchange, and NASDAQ Stock Markets. There were differences between O'Brien and Telenor, however, ESAT Digifone boomed. Telenor made a bid for control of the company, but O'Brien chose to sell to BT in 2000. Esat became a wholly owned subsidiary of BT and was delisted from the stock market. O'Brien personally netted €317 million from the sale.\nThe Moriarty Tribunal found almost beyond doubt that O'Brien's was awarded this contract due to payments he made to Michael Lowry, the then communications minister, who unduly influenced the bidding process.\n\nAfter the sale of Esat, O'Brien moved to Portugal where he owns the Quinta do Lago golf complex. He later took up residency in Sliema, Malta. His spokesperson is James Morrissey.\n\nIn 1999, O'Brien co-founded aircraft leasing company Aergo Capital, registered in Dublin, with offices in Johannesburg, Nairobi, Santiago and Singapore. It owns and operates a fleet of 103 commercial aircraft. The company is valued at US$250 million and has debts in the region of US$166 million. O'Brien controls about 83 per cent of Aergo and, along with his father, sits on the company's six-member board. Aergo's clients include Alitalia, Jet Airways, South African Airways, KLM and DHL. In July 2008, Aergo acquired the Safair aircraft-leasing division of Imperial Holdings for €110 million, taking over the division's 33 planes and leasing a further nine aircraft from the parent company. In November 2010, Aergo sold Safair, netting $35 million. Accounts filed in late-2011 showed pre-tax profits increased to $29.4 million over the previous 12 months from $2.68 million in 2009, with the number of employees decreasing from 166 to 15 over the same period.\n\nAfter exiting the Irish mobile phone market, O'Brien started to compete for mobile phone licenses in the Caribbean through his company Digicel. O'Brien is involved in the Pacific with operations in Samoa, Vanuatu, Fiji, Tonga, Nauru and Papua New Guinea\n\nO'Brien is the owner of Haiti's largest telecom company, Digicel. O'Brien pledged an immediate €3.5 million of his money to assist desperate Haitians within hours of the 2010 Haiti earthquake. Two of Digicel's 900 staff members in Haiti died in the earthquake. Digicel is Haiti's largest single investor.\n\nDigicel was involved in an extensive court battle with the Jamaican Office of Utilities Regulation (OUR) throughout the 2000s. The issue originally arose after Phillip Paulwell, the then Jamaican minister of industry, commerce and technology, instructed the OUR to refrain from interfering with the pricing policies of Digicel, after the regulator had itself instructed Digicel to amend its interconnectivity fees. Although Paulwell was ruled to have had no power to issue the instruction to the OUR, Digicel unsuccessfully appealed the ruling first at the Jamaican Supreme Court, which overturned the ruling, though it was subsequently upheld by Court of Appeal after a counter-appeal by OUR, and then at Jamaica's Privy Council.\n\nIn January 2014, the \"Financial Times\"s Telecoms Correspondent wrote of O'Brien's intention to expand Digicel into next-generation mobile and fixed line services, with O'Brien quoted as being excited by the prospect of a \"world order [that] is changing.\"\n\nSiteserv, a utilities support company sold by IBRC to Denis O’Brien for €45m in 2012, was renamed Actavo in 2015.\n\nAt the time of the renaming, Actavo had three divisions — industrial services, networks and structural — and was forecasting revenues of €400m in the same year.\n\nO'Brien owned Topaz Energy until early 2016, having bought €300 million of its loans from Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC) in 2013. In May 2014, O'Brien appointed former Taoiseach Brian Cowen to the board of Topaz to join himself, his nephew (who was also CEO of Smiles Dental), Sean Corkey (CEO of O'Brien's SiteServ), Lucy Gaffney (chairperson of O'Brien's Communicorp) and Colm Doherty (former managing director of Allied Irish Banks). In December 2014, Topaz's parent company Kendrick Investments announced it would buy all of Esso's Irish operations. Profits at Topaz increased between April 2013 and March 2014.\n\nThe sale of Topaz was announced in January 2016. It is estimated that O’Brien sold the network of 444 filling stations for about €450 million, more than double what he paid to gain control of it from the special liquidators of the state-owned Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC) in 2013. The sale also included a commercial fuels operation, with over 30 depots and two owned terminals.\n\nIn February 2016, Alimentation Couche-Tard, a Canadian company that operates more than 15,000 convenience stores worldwide confirmed that it completed the acquisition of Topaz after European competition regulators approved the deal.\n\nEmmet O’Neill, a nephew of O’Brien and formerly chief executive of Smiles Dental, stepped down as managing director of Topaz following completion of the transaction. \n\nTopaz had more than 2,000 employees and close to 35 per cent of the consumer market in Ireland at the time of the sale.\n\nIn addition, O'Brien is listed as having a \"significant interest\" in AIM-listed Sterling Energy. The company has production in the United States and a wide portfolio of exploration interests, mostly in West Africa.\n\nO'Brien married Catherine Walsh, who helped Communicorp expand into the Czech Republic, in August 1997. The couple have four children.\n\nThe Moriarty Tribunal's second and final report found that Michael Lowry, Ireland's then energy and communications minister, assisted O'Brien in his bid to secure a mobile phone contract for Esat Digifone, a key foundation of O'Brien's personal wealth. The tribunal found that this happened after Lowry received a $50,000 payment from O'Brien via a circuitous route involving a complex arrangement of third parties and offshore accounts. It said that it was \"beyond doubt\" that Lowry gave \"substantive information to Denis O'Brien, of significant value and assistance to him in securing the [mobile] licence\" during at least two meetings between the two. The Tribunal was not a court of law; its findings were \"legally sterile\".\n\nOn 15 October 2011, Today FM confirmed Sam Smyth's Sunday radio show was being dropped. He had been presenting it for 14 years. Smyth had previously offended his bosses by commenting in a newspaper and on television about Today FM's owner O'Brien's involvement in the Moriarty Tribunal. Smyth said on air the next morning that he had been told not to talk about the end of his show and stopped one of his guests from talking about it too \"before someone comes downstairs and pulls a wire we better move onto something else.\" The National Union of Journalists (NUJ) said it was concerned at the development, but Today FM stated that \"the decision was made to address a decline in listenership and was part of an initiative to improve programming quality.\" The Today FM board supported the decision, which was one of several programming changes made by Willy O'Reilly The \"Irish Independent\", of which O'Brien is a leading shareholder, reported that Anton Savage was being lined up to replace Smyth.\n\nO'Brien formed Communicorp in 1989. It launched its radio operations in Ireland that same year and entered the Czech Republic in 1992. It later added stations in Bulgaria, Estonia, Finland, Hungary and Ukraine. Based in Dublin, the company now owns 42 radio stations in eight European countries, including Ireland's Newstalk, Today FM, Dublin's 98FM, SPIN 1038, TXFM and SPIN South West. O'Brien owns a majority of Ireland's radio stations (all stations apart from those run by state broadcaster RTÉ), save some regional and local stations.\n\nO'Brien's Communicorp was the highest bidder for Emap's Irish operations when that company decided to sell its radio stations, buying FM104, Highland Radio and Today FM on 14 July 2007. In October 2007, the Broadcasting Commission of Ireland (BCI) approved Communicorp's proposed takeover of Today FM and Highland Radio, but not FM104. The deal was completed by January 2008. Due to a Competition Authority decision, Communicorp was required to sell-on FM104, which it did (to UTV Media) immediately upon its acquisition. O'Brien offloaded Highland Radio in mid-2008.\n\nIn January 2006, O'Brien took a stake in Tony O'Reilly's Independent News & Media (INM). At the beginning of June 2007, O'Reilly tabled a resolution to strengthen rules on the disclosure of beneficial interests. This was regarded as a defensive measure that would empower IN&M to monitor any additional accumulation of shares in the company. The resolution passed and empowers IN&M to withhold dividends from investors who do not comply with a request for information on the ownership of a holding of shares. O'Brien, speaking on RTÉ Radio, described the resolution as a \"retrograde\" measure, saying that the resolution was designed to protect the interests of O'Reilly's family against a hostile bidder. In January 2008, at the same time as completing the purchase of Today FM (then Ireland's last national radio station independent of O'Brien and state broadcaster RTÉ), O'Brien increased his INM shareholding to become that company's second-biggest shareholder behind Tony O'Reilly.\n\nIn 2012, O'Brien seized control of INM from O'Reilly, bringing to an end four decades of that family's ownership. Brett Chenoweth, the chief executive of APN News and Media (INM's Australian arm), was forced to resign in 2013. Its Chairman Peter Hunt and three independent directors – Melinda Conrad, John Harvey and John Maasland – also resigned in a dispute with INM. Shortly before this, INM announced it would sell South African arm of its business for £146 million to a consortium fronted by Iqbal Survé, a former doctor of Nelson Mandela. This followed the 2010 sale of \"The Independent\" and \"The Independent on Sunday\" to Russian billionaire Alexander Lebedev for £1.\n\nAs of May 2012, O'Brien holds a 29.9% stake in INM, making him the largest shareholder. This compares to the O'Reilly's family stake of around 13%.\n\nOn the evening of Friday 7 December 2012, O'Brien's friend and solicitor Paul Meagher contacted the \"Sunday Independent\" with orders from O'Brien to 'kill' a story concerning environment minister Phil Hogan.\n\nOn Saturday 19 July 2014, group editor of INM Stephen Rae ordered the presses to be stopped to amend a column written by \"Sunday Independent\" editor Anne Harris which featured references to O'Brien. Copies of the original article did however appear, allowing comparisons between the two. Harris originally wrote: \"Denis O'Brien is the major shareholder in INM. In theory, with 29% of the shares, he does not control it. \"In practice, he does\".\" Rae had the last sentence deleted. Harris also wrote: \"The question is whether he understands newspapers. In order to confront the truths in our society, we must have a free press. \"With the restrictive charter for journalists proposed last year, and some garrotive (sic) new structures, Denis O'Brien does not make this easy.\"\" This was changed to: \"The question is whether he understands newspapers. In order to confront the truths in our society, we must have a free press. \"If the restrictive charter for journalists proposed last year, along with some other structural changes, are anything to go by, it might be instructive for him to listen to journalists, troublesome and all as they are.\"\"\n\nOn 24 March 2018 the Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement (ODCE) in Ireland said it would apply to the High Court of Ireland to appoint inspectors to Independent News and Media to investigate an alleged data breach. According to an affidavit filed by the ODCE, invoices associated with the data interrogation were discharged by Blaydon Limited, a company owned by Denis O'Brien, INM's largest shareholder.\n\nO'Brien has threatened to sue the journalist and broadcaster Vincent Browne; as the \"Sunday Independent\" wrote at the time: \"Suing the individual journalist is a tactic usually designed to instill a fear of financial ruin into the writer of the allegedly offending article, especially when the potential litigant is somebody of Mr O'Brien's means.\"\n\nOn 14 February 2013, O'Brien sued the \"Irish Daily Mail\" for defamation over his numerous appearances in RTÉ news reports on the relief effort after the Haiti earthquake in an attempt to use the publicity to deflect attention from the Moriarty Tribunal. The court awarded O'Brien €150,000. The case was a landmark one as it was the first time a journalist had attempted to use the honest opinion defence. The newspaper's solicitor said it was a sad day for freedom of expression in Ireland.\n\nOn 6 August 2015, Waterford Whispers News (a satirical website similar to America's The Onion) editor-in-chief Colm Williamson received a cease and desist order from a solicitor acting on O'Brien's behalf, for a satirical article published on the website regarding O'Brien. Soon after lawyers for O'Brien also demanded that a report of the Waterford Whispers News story also be removed from www.broadsheet.ie under a threat of legal action. . \n\nHowever this demand was not complied with and the article is still carried on Broadsheet.ie 3 years later in July 2018.\n\nIn response to such actions - in particular those relating to the threat of legal proceedings against satirical websites - the comments sections of various Irish related social media outlet featured many negative comments chastising O'Brien for his constant issuing of threats of legal proceedings.\n\nIn 2015, arguing that revelation of his relationship with his bank was an invasion of his privacy, O'Brien successfully applied for an injunction against RTÉ preventing the state broadcaster from airing a report on how O'Brien was allegedly receiving, on foot of a claimed but disputed verbal agreement with a former CEO of the Irish Bank Resolution Corporation (IBRC)—the former Anglo Irish Bank, and another senior executive, a rate of approximately 1.25% when IBRC \"could, and arguably should\" have been charging 7.5%. This alleged rate applied to \"outstanding sums of upwards of €500 million\", or \"over €300 million\" according to the RTÉ producer's court affidavit. O'Brien then allegedly wrote to IBRC's special liquidator Kieran Wallace to demand that these same favourable terms that were granted him by way of verbal agreement be continued. The Irish government later appointed Kieran Wallace to conduct a review into various IBRC transactions, including the sale of Siteserv by IBRC to Denis O'Brien. Acting as IBRC special liquidator, and in order to protect the confidentiality of IBRC's relations with its customers and of any legal advice given to it, Wallace then joined with IBRC and Denis O'Brien to seek an injunction in Ireland's High Court to hide this information from the public. High court judge Justice Donald Binchy granted O'Brien the injunction and told the court that certain elements of the judgement would have to be redacted. The Irish media therefore could not report on details of the injunction.\n\nIndependent TD Catherine Murphy attempted to raise this in the Dáil on 27 May 2015. Seán Barrett silenced her and called her contributions \"out of order\". Catherine Murphy then attempted to raise the matter again the following day, this time with more success. O’Brien \"claimed the information was false and that it was an abuse of Dáil privilege.\" (The former chief executive of IBRC, Mike Aynsley, also took issue with other comments by Deputy Murphy). Lawyers acting for O'Brien immediately forced much of the country's media to censor its own coverage, with some media outlets confirming they had received warnings from O'Brien's lawyers. RTÉ reporter Philip Boucher-Hayes tweeted that \"Drivetime\" would play Murphy’s speech; in the event, Murphy's speech was not broadcast and his tweet was later deleted. \"Tonight with Vincent Browne\" (with Browne absent and instead moderated by Ger Colleran, editor of INM's \"Irish Daily Star\") featured Colleran reading a statement from TV3 management asserting that no discussion about Murphy's comments would be allowed following letters from O'Brien's lawyers. At least one foreign commentator covering these events for the international media suggested that in Ireland \"the bedrock of any society claiming to be democratic\" had been \"wiped away at a stroke\". Some enterprising citizens received a positive response by printing Catherine Murphy's speech from foreign media coverage and handing copies to passers-by on the streets of the nation's towns and cities in an attempt to inform those relying on state media.\n\nThe Irish Times stated that \"it is an unprecedented development that the mainstream media have been prevented from publishing privileged remarks in the Dáil due to the threat of legal action\". However it also added that Deputy Murphy's Dáil speech was still available on the Oireachtas website, and that the website Broadsheet.ie had ignored a request by solicitors to remove a copy of her speech. Broadsheet.ie rejected the request by referring to Article 15.12 of the Irish Constitution - this states \"All official reports and publications of the Oireachtas or of either House thereof and utterances made in either House wherever published shall be privileged.\" Former Attorney General Michael McDowell indicated that parliamentary privilege does not grant \"absolute impunity\", but that he expected it would apply in this case. In the High Court the following Tuesday (2 June 2015), Justice Donald Binchy stated that it was \"never intended nor could it have been intended that any order of this court would impact upon entitlements of deputies to speak as they see fit or the entitlement of the media to report on those utterances\", but added that it was \"entirely understandable\" that RTÉ had sought court clarification on this.\n\nWhen giving written reasons for the injunction (with \"fairly minimal\" redactions) a few days later, Judge Binchy said \"there was no allegation whatsoever of any misconduct or wrongdoing on the part of Mr O'Brien\". Earlier O'Brien had defended himself in an Irish Times article, stating that he had been shocked that somebody took confidential files from a bank, tampered with them, and then leaked them, that he had done much to try to help the Irish economy and the stability of its banking system in recent years, that the 'throwing to the wolves' of decent Irish borrowers by institutions like NAMA had ruined many lives and led to suicides, and that he was being vilified to an unprecedented degree by enemies, competitors, publicity-seeking politicians, and social media cowards, for trying to defend his privacy.\n\nOn 17 June 2015, RTÉ published what it stated was \"a curtailed version of the story RTÉ sought to publish last month. Two paragraphs of the original planned story cannot be published as they are still covered by the injunction granted to IBRC against RTÉ in May.\" The curtailed version was accompanied by an alleged \"timeline of events\". The omissions were not due to O'Brien's lawyers, but to objections by IBRC to publication of reported legal advice given to IBRC that was not already in the public domain.\n\nOn 10 June 2015, a Commission of Investigation (O'Keeffe Commission) was established to inquire into the wider issue of certain transactions of IBRC under the Commission of Investigation (Irish Bank Resolution Corporation) Order 2015 passed by Dáil Éireann and Seanad Éireann. This was partly as a result of controversy over the sale by IBRC of Siteserv to a company controlled by Denis O'Brien, and of complaints by Deputy Catherine Murphy that IBRC special liquidator Kieran Wallace, who had originally been asked to conduct an inquiry into such matters, could no longer credibly do so after he had joined with O'Brien in his above lawsuit against RTÉ.\n\nOn 16 June 2015 Counsel for O'Brien informed the High Court that he was suing the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission, Ireland and the Attorney General over remarks made by Independent TD Catherine Murphy and Sinn Féin TD Pearse Doherty about his banking affairs (following his above lawsuit against RTÉ) in an alleged breach of parliamentary privilege, violating his constitutional rights and his rights under the European Convention on Human Rights. The Oireachtas Committee on Procedures and Privileges had previously rejected O'Brien's claims that Deputy Murphy's allegations were a breach of parliamentary privilege.\n\nO'Brien has been a member of the Trilateral Commission. He regularly attends the World Economic Forum's annual winter meeting in Davos, meeting Hungarian-American billionaire George Soros among others.\n\nO'Brien supported the 2003 Special Olympics World Summer Games, holding the title \"Chairman of Council of Patrons.\" He is also a director on the U.S. Board of Concern Worldwide.\n\nIn September 2005, O'Brien was named deputy governor of the Bank of Ireland. Simultaneously, he moved his residence from Portugal to Malta, for tax reasons. He resigned as Deputy Governor, and as a member of the Bank's board or court, on 12 September 2006. The Bank of Ireland issued a statement describing his resignation as due to \"his growing international business interests together with the demands of an extensive travel schedule, meant that he could no longer devote the time required to the ever increasing workload of the court.\" O'Brien also resigned from the Norkom Group and the UCD Smurfit School of Business. His spokesman said these resignations were unconnected with the work of the Moriarty Tribunal.\n\nOn 13 February 2008, Football Association of Ireland chief executive John Delaney confirmed that O'Brien was funding the wages of Ireland national soccer team manager Giovanni Trapattoni. O'Brien's soccer interests also extend to being a minority shareholder in Scottish club, Celtic.\n\nO'Brien's Siteserv provides services to the Irish State including the installation of water meters, and 'modular homes' through subsidiary RoanKabin.\n\nIn 2011, O'Brien donated €2,500 to the campaign of Mary Davis for the Irish presidential election.\n\nO'Brien and the Clintons were prominent investors of time and money in Haiti following the 2010 earthquake. U.S. government agency USAID, overseen by the State Department and headed at the time by Hillary Clinton, donated millions of U.S. tax dollars to O'Brien's Digicel company. USAID's \"Food for Peace\" scheme transferred money over Digicel's mobile network, with citizens of the stricken country being given mobile phones and free Digicel accounts, which led Digicel to \"significantly expand\" its customer numbers. Bill Clinton also oversaw the building and then opened a luxury Marriott Hotel in Haiti; this hotel was owned by Digicel, which made a $45 million contribution (compared to a $26.5 million contribution from the World Bank-affiliated International Finance Corporation).\n\nIn 2011, Bill Clinton flew to Ireland on O'Brien's private jet to attend the Global Irish Economic Forum.\n\nIn 2012, Clinton bestowed upon O'Brien the title \"Clinton Global Citizen\" as part of an awards scheme connected with the Clinton Global Initiative think tank.\n\nAccording to \"The Irish Times\", Clinton's 2013 speaking engagement at Dublin's Conrad Hotel was \"facilitated largely by his friend\" Denis O'Brien. When opening his speech, Clinton personally thanked O'Brien \"for the invitation.\" According to U.S. accounts, Clinton's average speaking fee for the previous year a minimum of close to $200,000 (though he had received multiples of that fee at some corporate functions).\n\nO'Brien's \"arrangement\" of speeches for Clinton is covered in Peter Schweizer's book \"Clinton Cash\". Clinton has also praised O'Brien in \"Time Magazine\", while U.S. media have referred to O'Brien as a \"Clinton crony.\"\n\nIn September 2016, during the 2016 US Presidential election, Republican candidate Donald Trump's campaign produced a lengthy e-mail to the media criticising Hillary Clinton's relationship with O'Brien. O'Brien refused to make any comments on Trump's statements.\n\n\"Forbes\" estimates O'Brien's wealth as approximately $6.8 billion.\n\nO'Brien took up residency in Portugal some time before Esat Telecom's sale to BT in 2000. He netted more than €300 million from that sale but paid no capital gains tax due to a then-existing provision in the Irish-Portuguese tax treaty. While considering the flotation of Digicel on the New York Stock Exchange in 2006, it emerged in public that O'Brien had taken up residence in Malta. O'Brien's move to Malta was revealed in a March 2006 filing to the Companies Registration Office (CRO), which listed O'Brien's residential address in Malta. Malta charges no tax on worldwide assets or income brought in by permanent residents. Residence, for tax purposes, means renting or buying a property with a minimum value and visiting Malta at least once within one year of becoming a resident.\n\nHe was appointed goodwill ambassador for Port-au-Prince by the city's mayor and deputy mayor in recognition of his efforts to rebuild Haiti and attract foreign direct investment in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake on 12 January, and on behalf of the Clinton Global Initiative. He is chairman of the Haiti Action Network, which coordinates the activities of approximately 80 support organisations in Haiti. Most recently, O'Brien reconstructed the Iron Market in Haiti's capital Port-au-Prince, the first public building in the city to be rebuilt since the earthquake. He has also contributed to building 50 primary and secondary schools in 18 months following the earthquake.\n\nIn 2012, President Michel Martelly of Haiti awarded O'Brien with the National Order of Honour and Merit for his investments, contributions and promotion of the country.\n\nUCD awarded O'Brien an honorary doctorate in 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28577300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28577300", "title": "Douglas Clague", "text": "Douglas Clague\n\nSir Douglas Clague CBE, MC, QPM, CPM, TD (13 June 1917 – 11 March 1981) was a British Hong Kong soldier and entrepreneur who spent most of his life in Hong Kong.\n\nBorn in South Rhodesia, in 1917, Clague arrived in Hong Kong in 1940 as a lieutenant in the Royal Artillery, and on the outbreak of World War II became a prisoner in the Sham Shui Po PoW camp. He later escaped, and joined the British Army Aid Group in free China. On the ending of the war, he famously took the surrender of Japanese forces in Bangkok more or less single-handedly.\n\nAfter the war, he became the tai-pan of with the British Hong Kong hong Hutchison, better known as Hutchison Whampoa. \n\nHe overstretched his finances, which resulted in HSBC taking over the firm, replacing Clague, and lead to the sale of Hutchison Whampoa to Li Ka-Shing's Cheung Kong in 1979.\n\nClague was also one of the commandants of the Royal Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force, and a member of both the Executive and the Legislative Councils of Hong Kong, when he succeeded Cedric Blaker on 21 March 1958. From 1950 to 1951 he was President of the Gunners Roll of Hong Kong.\n\nClague owned a lodge at Kam Tsin in the northern New Territories alongside many other wealthy people. He was also a racehorse owner and one time chairman of the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club; it was under his tenure the Sha Tin Racecourse was developed. The Clague Garden Estate in Tsuen Wan is named for him, as he was also one of the longest serving chairmen of the Hong Kong Housing Society.\n\nClague was married to Lady Margaret Isolin Clague (née Cowley) and three children (Jonathan, Penny and Isolin).\n\nHe died of cancer aged 64, in 1981 and Lady Clague in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "18930109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18930109", "title": "European Information Technology Observatory", "text": "European Information Technology Observatory\n\nThe European Information Technology Observatory (EITO) gathers information on European and global markets for information technology, telecommunications and consumer electronics. The EITO is managed by Bitkom Research GmbH, a wholly owned subsidiary of BITKOM, the German Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media. EITO is sponsored by Deutsche Telekom, KPMG and Telecom Italia. The research activities of the EITO Task Force are supported by the European Commission and the OECD.\n\nThe EITO exists thank to an initiative of Enore Deotto (Milano, † August, 9th, 2008 in Carnia) and the support of Luis-Alberto Petit Herrera (Madrid), Jörg Schomburg (Hannover) and Günther Möller (Frankfurt am Main). Between 1993 and 2007 the market reports were published as printed annual reports (\"EITO yearbook\"). Since 2008 the market reports are available in electronic version and can be purchased on the EITO online portal.\nCurrently, the ICT market reports are divided in following categories:\nInternational Reports include ICT market information of all EITO countries and all market segments or only specific segments. The newest ICT Market Report 2013/14, published in October 2013, includes market data of 36 countries: 28 European markets, BRIC countries, Japan, Turkey and the USA as well as a deep analysis of ICT market developments in 9 European countries. The detailed market data and forecasts are available for the period 2010-2014.\nThis category includes EITO reports on a single country's ICT market. The Country ICT Market Reports are published biannually for France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom.\nThematic studies focusing on a specific topic.\nMarket Reports made upon order.\n"}
{"id": "5247841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5247841", "title": "First National Bank of Omaha", "text": "First National Bank of Omaha\n\nFirst National Bank Omaha is a subsidiary of First National of Nebraska. It is the largest privately held bank in the United States with $17 billion in assets and 5,000 employees. \n\nChartered and headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, United States, First National provides corporate banking, investment banking, retail banking, wealth management and consumer lending services at locations in Nebraska, Iowa, Colorado, Texas, Kansas and Illinois. The bank operates a total of 101 branches throughout the midwest.\n\nIn 1856, a group of settlers from Kanesville, Iowa crossed the Missouri River to picnic in the newly named Nebraska Territory. One of the visitors, Thomas Davis, helped found Omaha when he donated $600 in gold dust for an official charter. He eventually served on First National Bank's board of directors. Two immigrant brothers from Ohio, Herman and Augustus Kountze opened Kountze Brothers Bank in 1857. Omaha's first bank opened its doors and started trading primarily in gold dust and buffalo hides. Kountze Brothers Bank received national charter #209 in 1863. Today, theirs is the oldest national bank west of the Missouri River. In 1863, they also began doing business as First National Bank of Omaha and brought in additional investors, including Edward Creighton, who served as president.\n\nIn 1883, Herman Kountze speculated on land in North Omaha, eventually developing an affluent Omaha suburb called Kountze Place in the former town of Saratoga. The panic of 1893 sparked the worst depression of the 19th century. In 1895, twelve businessmen from Omaha, including Herman Kountze, started the Knights of Ak-Sar-Ben. Their mission, \"to build a more prosperous Heartland, where communities can flourish and every child can succeed,\" carries on to this day. In 1898, Herman Kountze donated the use of of his Kountze Place development for the Trans-Mississippi Exposition, one of the crowning events in Omaha's history. Featuring a lagoon filled with Venetian gondolas, it attracted 2.6 million visitors at a time when Omaha's population was roughly 100,000.\n\nIn 1913, First National Bank became one of the first banks to specifically target women with a Ladies' Department. Staffed with female tellers in a comfortable and accommodating setting, it helped make banking a mainstream activity for women. During a five-year span ending in 1933, the Great Depression caused more than 750 Nebraska banks to close. On one Saturday in August, skittish depositors begin withdrawing their funds \"en masse\" from Omaha banks. When their requests were met, the banks proved their solvency; if not, the banks faced almost certain collapse. During this period First National Bank extended their hours, honored every withdrawal and proved their financial strength once and for all.\n\nIn 1953, under the leadership of John Lauritzen, First National Bank became the first bank in the region and the fifth in the nation to issue its own credit card. Also in 1953, First National Merchant Solutions began processing for 125 merchants. In 1971, employees started moving into the 22-story First National Center. Attached to a 420-room hotel and a 550-stall parking garage, it became one of the most modern and attractive buildings in the region, providing economic development in downtown Omaha.\n\nIn 2000 First National Bank designated two parcels of green space for the city of Omaha. They are the current sites of two sculpture parks called \"Spirit of Nebraska's Wilderness\" and \"Pioneer Courage\". Working in tandem, the two sculptures join to make one of the largest bronze sculptures in the world. In 2002, First National Bank completed construction on the First National Tower, the tallest building between Chicago and Denver. With almost a million square feet of office space, it dramatically changed Omaha's skyline.\n\nIt was announced on February 8, 2008, that Mills County Bank in Glenwood, Iowa and Silver City, Iowa will be First National Bank of Omaha, effective February 9, 2008. The full transition to First National Bank was completed on June 20, 2008. In March 2008, First National Bank opened a new branch with their new partnership with Scooter's Coffeehouse, started in Bellevue, Nebraska and have their operations based out of Omaha. This new branch is located in the Old Market in Downtown Omaha.\n\nBeginning September 30, 2010, it was announced that First National of Nebraska consolidated its bank charters of First National Bank of Colorado, in Fort Collins, Colorado; First National Bank of Kansas, in Overland Park, Kansas; and Castle Bank, in DeKalb, Illinois, with its First National Bank of Omaha charter.\n\nOn February 22, 2018 the bank announced it would no longer renew its contract with the National Rifle Association as a result of customer feedback after a recent school shooting controversy in Florida. The bank had offered special branded Visa cards to NRA members to support the group.\n\nAfter three years as the President of FNBO, Rajive Johri retired on January 6, 2009. Dan O'Neill, who is also the president of First National of Nebraska, has succeeded Johri as president. During his three years, chairman Bruce Lauritzen states that Johri engineered the significant growth of the credit card division, introduced the banks online savings product and opened up the first branches in Iowa.\n\nCurrently, First National Bank has branches in Nebraska, Iowa, Texas, Colorado, Kansas and Illinois. On September 6, 1984, FNBO acquired David City Bank in David City. On May 31, 1988, FNBO acquired First Security Bank & Trust Co. in Beatrice. On November 21, 1989, FNBO acquired First of Omaha Savings Co. in Omaha.\n\nTexas is also the home to four branches, however, they operate under the name of First National Bank Southwest. On December 15, 2000, FNBO acquired First State Bank in Frisco. The initial branches in Glenwood opened on January 1, 1883, as Mills County State Bank. On May 1, 2001, they changed their name to Mills County Bank, N.A. On February 9, 2008, they merged with First National Bank of Omaha. The first branch in Council Bluffs opened on July 28, 2008. The first First National Bank Iowa branch opened in Des Moines on June 30, 2008.\n\nIn the June 19, 2008, edition of the Omaha World-Herald, Rajive Johri, president of First National Bank, stated that First National had planned to open a branch office in Des Moines, Iowa this summer, but due to the recent flooding in the area, the opening date is being pushed back to the fall.\n\nSince 1881, First National Bank has been in business in Colorado. First National Bank of Fort Collins was formed on May 15, 1934 with the original name of First National Bank. Its name was changed to First Interstate Bank of Fort Collins, National Association on June 1, 1981. On June 13, 1994, the name was changed back to First National Bank. Union Colony Bank in Greeley, Colorado was acquired by First National Bank February 15, 2008.\n\nOn February 15, 2008, First National Bank of Colorado, First National Bank of Fort Collins and Union Colony Bank merged under First National Bank Colorado.\n\nFirst National Bank of Kansas (FNBK) was chartered in 1993 when FNNI purchased approximately $80 million deposits from a failed financial institution. The bank purchased additional deposits approximating $220 million from another financial institution in 1994. To profitably invest this large deposit base, FNBK purchased credit card receivables from an affiliated bank. Most of the receivables originated outside the bank's assessment area. While credit card receivables still represent a large percentage of bank assets, credit card lending is not a strategic goal for the bank.\n\nFNBO Direct, a division of First National Bank of Omaha, started operations in November 2006 at a 5.25% annual percentage yield (APY). FNBO Direct launched a nationwide campaign to promote their online savings account on May 1, 2007. In honor of the bank's 150th anniversary, the APY was placed at 6.0% for 150 days from May 1 through September 28, 2007. In an e-mail sent to customers at the end of August, it was announced that the FNBO Direct Credit Card will give a competitive interest rate and cash back rewards that would be deposited directly into the online savings account. The credit card product launched to a selected number of customers that currently have an online savings account on September 26, 2007. On November 28, 2007, FNBO Direct launched an Online Billpay account as well as offering a certificate of deposit available, at first, for four different terms (9 month, 12 month, 18 month, and 24 month). Currently, customers are able to choose from a six-month term as well.\n\nIn addition to being a top-10 payment processor, First National Merchant Solutions is also the 4th largest bank processor in the United States and is the 6th largest in-house processor of credit cards. In 1967, First National Bank of Omaha automated many of its manual credit card processes and was the first credit card processing center in the nation to offer descriptive billing statements. In 1988, First National Bank of Omaha became the first processor to develop authorization slips for restaurants with a blank area for including tip. A couple of years later, FNBO's acquiring division was renamed to First of Omaha Merchant Processing. First of Omaha Merchant Processing received the 1994 Member Service Quality Performance Award for Best Copy Performance by an acquirer with Visa sales over $1.5 billion. In 2002, First of Omaha Merchant Processing changed its name to First National Merchant Solutions. A year later, FNMS celebrated its 50th year of processing payments. First National Merchant Solutions became one of the first processors to offer merchants ACH and credit card transactions in the same batch file in 2004. The following year, First National Merchant Solutions introduced First Resolution OnlineTM, the first chargeback management tool in the market to allow merchants to resolve chargebacks online.\n\nFNBO also underwrites for two large ISO's, International Merchant Services, located in Westmont, Illinois, and Merchant Services, Inc. of Farmingdale, New Jersey. On April 1, 2010, TSYS announced that they would be acquiring 51% of the merchant division, and the remaining 49% would remain under the ownership of FNBO. The new name of the company is First National Merchant Solutions, LLC (FNMS). Joint Venture with TSYS\n\nIt was announced on January 4, 2011, that TSYS would acquire the remaining 49% of the company, thus changing their name to TSYS Merchant Solutions.\n\nIn 1953, First National's consumer finance operation launched its \"First Charge\" card which remains to this day the most profitable innovation in First National's long history. The bank issued a simple little card, which was nothing more than a white piece of plasticized paper, complete with a green logo, and an inscription which spelled \"First Charge Account Service\" and a red number which served to identify the cardholder. First Bankcard is one of the top three banks serving the credit card needs of other financial institutions, including Union Bank of California and People's Bank. First Bankcard also services credit cards for Major League Lacrosse, World of Warcraft, Scheels All Sports, just to name a few. SunTrust Bank announced on December 12, 2006, that it has signed an agreement with Atlanta-based InfiCorp Holdings, Inc. (subsidiary of First National of Nebraska) for issuing consumer credit cards. Under terms of the agreement, InfiCorp will market, originate and service SunTrust-branded cards starting in the first quarter of 2007, focusing on SunTrust clients.\n\nAn Iowa resident by the name of Fred Fisher received an unsolicited BankAmericard from First National Bank Omaha, in February 1969. Fisher filed a complaint against the Omaha bank on September 3, 1971, for exporting Nebraska's higher interest rates to his state. He told the U.S. District Court that since the Iowa legislature had fixed the usury ceiling at nine percent, First National was breaking the law by charging him 18 percent for advance of up to $500. Marquette threatened by taking the Omaha bank to the U.S. Supreme Court if necessary if their practice continued. The Marquette bank offered credit cards for a $10 fee at a flat rate of 12 percent interest on outstanding credit. First National required no fee and it charged 18 percent interest for credit up to $500 and 12 percent on all additional balances.\n\nMarquette began to lobby for the passage of a state law designed to put a 12 percent ceiling on all bank credit card outstandings. In May 1976, about one month after that measure was signed into law, Marquette filed a suit to make its Omaha rival conform to the 12 percent limit. The decision maintained that the 115-year-old National Bank Act takes precedence over usury statues in individual states. Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. wrote that the 1863 law permitted a national bank to charge interest at the rate allowed by the regulations of the state in which the lending institution is located. On July 25, 1979, the Iowa Supreme Court overturned their decision that was made on August 30, 1978.\n\nIt was announced on the Kearney Hub's website that the Kearney call center will be closing, effective February 28, 2009. FNBO plans to move its customer service operations in Kearney to its locations in Bloomfield, Omaha and Wayne, Nebraska, after formal approval by its board of directors. \"First National Credit Card Center has been growing profitably over the past three years. This consolidation plan is designed to fully utilize our call center facilities to support future growth, while allowing us to be more efficient.\" President Stephen Eulie said in a press release. \"It will result in a significant increase in the number of employees at our other sites and improved career options for those individuals.\" He said the decision to close the Kearney call center and move those positions will enable the company to more effectively centralize operations functions while reducing the expense of managing its overall business. Operations at the call centers include inbound customer service, credit card collections, account activity alert and fraud prevention, credit analysis, credit account processing, specialized customer contact and technology support. First National has operated the call center in Kearney since 1992.\n\nThe Northern Natural Gas Building is located at 2223 Dodge Street in Omaha, Nebraska, United States. It is a 260 ft (79 m), 19-story skyscraper. This building housed the credit card operations until the opening of the First National Tower in 2002.\n\nFirst National Business Park is located at just north of Boys Town in West Omaha. First National Business Park is located at 144th & Dodge Streets. First National Bank occupies 14010 FNB Parkway. There is also a bank branch located at the business park at 14310 FNB Parkway. Valmont Industries has their corporate headquarters located at One Valmont Plaza, which is also located in the Business Park. It was announced on October 23, 2008, that Yahoo will be coming to the Omaha Metro Area. Yahoo stated that the First National Business Park will be the home to the customer care center that should open next April.\n\nFirst National Center is a 22-story office building in downtown Omaha. The building is attached to a 420-room hotel and a 550-stall parking garage. The First National Center is located at 1620 Dodge St in downtown Omaha. The hotel that is joining the First National Center is the Doubletree Hotel.\n\nWith the completion of the First National Technology Center, FNBO became the first business in the country to utilize hydrogen fuel cells. In 2008, \"ComputerWorld\" named First National of Nebraska as the third best in a top 12 list of \"Green-IT Companies\" In 2012, First National Bank of Omaha upgraded its fuel cell system to a PureCell Model 400. The fuel cell is installed in the main floor of the building and provides 400 kW of heat and power to the facility.\n\nThe First National Bank Tower is a 634 ft (193 m), 45-story skyscraper at 1601 Dodge Street in downtown Omaha. Built in 2002, it is currently the tallest building in Nebraska, as well as the tallest building between Minneapolis and Denver. It was built on the site of the former \"Medical Arts Building\" which was imploded on April 2, 1999. Inside the glass lobby is a large section of the ornamental facade from the former \"Medical Arts Building\".\n"}
{"id": "37619079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37619079", "title": "Gianni Bulgari", "text": "Gianni Bulgari\n\nGianni Bulgari (born 1935) is an Italian jewelry designer, businessman and socialite. He is a member of the Bulgari family of jewelers and led the Bulgari company from the 1960s into the 1980s. After leaving the family business, he was the chairman of Fila from 1988 to 1998 and established his own luxury watchmaking and jewelry company GB-Enigma in 1989.\n\nIn 1975, his abduction made international news. His captors released him for a ransom of about $2 million.\n\nGianni Bulgari was born in 1935, the eldest son of Giorgio Bulgari (1890-1966). His brother Paolo was born in 1937 and Nicola in 1941. His grandfather, Sotirio, was the founder of the Bulgari company.\n\nBefore actively joining the family business, Gianni graduated from law school and led a playboy lifestyle, which included a stint as a race car driver.\n\nAfter his father's death in 1966, Gianni led the company as co-chief executive with his cousin Marina. As chairman and CEO of Bulgari in the early 1970s, Gianni initiated the internationalization of the company by opening shops in New York, Geneva, Monte Carlo and Paris.\n\nIn March 1975, Gianni made international news when he was abducted by masked men armed with pistols who demanded a $16 million ransom for his release. The next month, they released Gianni in exchange for about $2 million.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Gianni led a complete overhaul of the company, establishing a new watch business and focusing on product design. In 1985, Gianni resigned as CEO and in 1987, he left the family business after selling his one-third stake in the company to his brothers Nicola and Paolo.\n\nFrom 1988 until 1998, Gianni was chairman of Fila, the Italian sportswear company.\n\nIn 1989, Gianni founded the luxury watchmaking company GB-Enigma in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. In 2002, he began to focus full-time on the development of the GB-Enigma brand after relinquishing his other professional commitments. GB-Enigma opened its first store in Rome in 2005 and another in Geneva in 2006.\n\nLaunching its debut fine jewelry collection in 2011, the Italian fashion house Ferragamo collaborated with Gianni to create its Futurista, Vara, and Gancino jewelry lines. Regarding the partnership, Gianni stated, \"My task is to help Ferragamo get into the jewellery business with my knowhow and experience, but mixing it up with their experience and icons so that their jewellery is very recognisable.\"\n\nGianni has one son, Giorgio, who works with him at GB-Enigma.\n\nHe has been named to the International Best Dressed List Hall of Fame.\n\nDuring the filming of the movie \"Cleopatra\" in Rome in the 1960s, actress Elizabeth Taylor and actor Richard Burton often visited Gianni.\n"}
{"id": "53587560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53587560", "title": "Gianni Mattioli", "text": "Gianni Mattioli\n\nGianni Mattioli (1903 – 1977) was an Italian businessman, a cotton trader in Milan, and art collector, particularly of the work of the Italian Futurists.\n\nMattioli was born in Milan in 1903, and started collecting in the early 1920s, but most of his collection was built in the late 1930s and 1940s, and in 1949, he acquired 87 works from fellow Italian collector Pietro Feroldi (1881–1958).\n\nMattioli died in Milan in 1977, and his daughter the art historian, Laura Mattioli Rossi, inherited the collection.\n\n26 works from the Gianni Mattioli Collection have been on loan to the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice since September 1997.\n\nIn November 2015, \"Nu couché\" a 1917 Amedeo Modigliani oil on canvas from the collection, was sold by his daughter at Christie's, New York for $170.4 million to Liu Yiqian.\n"}
{"id": "37694601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37694601", "title": "High-commitment management", "text": "High-commitment management\n\nHigh-commitment management emphasizes personal responsibility, independence, and empowerment of employees across all levels instead of focusing on one higher power; it always intended to keep commitment at high level “calling all the shots”. \n\nA high commitment system is unusual in its job design and cultural structure. These practices emphasize getting the tasks complete, but do it in a way that their employees enjoy doing it. According to Harvard Business School Professor Michael Beer, “leaders develop an organizational design, business processes, goals and measures, and capabilities that are aligned with a focused, winning strategy.” This kind of environment allows employees to approach tasks at ease, wearing jeans instead of suits and staying home to watch their children get on the bus for school before coming to work. Technology also plays a role in this system. Recently, technology has slaughtered barriers of communication, which makes this high-commitment model fit that much better. That father waiting for the bus can still answer phone calls and check emails for work, so is he working or is he spending time with his daughter? He can be doing both. As long as the job gets done, this system is casual on how it gets done, relieving employees of constant stress.\n\nA flat organizational structure is one of the biggest success factors. Individuals are responsible for their own decision-making and these decisions, their skill, and their performance is how they get paid. Instead of putting too much weight on the individual, “people are likely to see the locus of the control coming from ‘within’ through the adoption of self-created demands and pressures as opposed to external and making them feel subordinate.” While these companies allow each employee to be a manager in their own way and try not to distinguish its structure by higher levels of employment, it doesn’t mean that they lack these higher powers entirely. It's that under this system people aren’t relying on the general managers, CEOs, or other employees to do their work for them. This personal discipline is what drives the employees to help the company be successful. and eliminates the chance at a thought like, “Why would I want to help my company become better if I know I’m just going to get yelled at?” \n\nAnother focus of high commitment practices is their employee relationships. They only hire people who are flexible, determined, and are willing to handle challenges. Because this system relies on individual performance, there is a big emphasis on hiring the right people for the job. The detailed recruitment process can consist of many interviews with different members of the company, an induction course, and in some cases, team-building exercises. Once found, the right employees help create a strong bond and high trust throughout the entire company.\n\nHigh commitment workplaces are successful through their importance on an individual’s responsibility in order to help the team prosper. By creating a culture that motivates individuals to want to succeed while sustaining high commitment, “these firms stand out by having achieved long periods of excellence.” \n\nHigh-commitment management firms are designed by their founders or transformational chief executives to achieve sustained high commitment from employees. The application of high-commitment management in firms today originated from an alignment of the employees’ and the firm’s mission. Sociologists attribute this congruence as a product of performance and psychological collaboration between the firm and its employees. Since its initial developments, high commitment management has been driven by self-regulated behavior and performance-driven group dynamics. Contrary to the top-down leadership practices, high-commitment management took form as leaders engaged and listened to people, allowing ideas from different levels of the organization to push the firm forward.\n\nIn a study of illumination in the workplace of Hawthorne and the Western Electric Company, a sociologist from Harvard Business School, Elton Mayo, concluded that when the organization established experimental work groups, “the individuals became a team and the team gave itself wholeheartedly and spontaneously to cooperation.” Through a natural system of collaboration, the teams are not only responsible for the work but also the management of their group. Mayo’s research uncovered that teams under their own direction established a capacity for self-motivated learning and change. This concept of designing the work system with the full participation of the people proved to be a breakthrough for organizations during the 1990s. During that time, employees closest to the product and customer began to have increasing decision making capacities and capabilities.\n\nThe Hawthorne Experiments sought to determine a correlation between light levels and productivity. Researchers had divided the employees into teams of six and interviewed the individuals to determine the effect of the lighting. Mayo discovered that the interview program set up by the study inherently gave the employees a sense of higher purpose. Exposure of employee thoughts and concerns to managers appeared to be a fundamental aspect of the relation between managers and employees. Evidently, by having the ability to speak to their managers, the employees at Western Electric exhibited a dramatic improvement in their attitudes towards work. Essential to a highly committed work force, the interview program formally developed and sustained cooperation with management.\n\nThe Hawthorne experiment further highlighted that teams working without coercion from above or limitation from below could astonish even their own expectations of themselves. Sociologist Fritz Roethlisberger argued that this informal organization left the team responsible for addressing the myriad of problems that continuously arose. Roethlisberger noted by studying the chemistry of informal groups that human interactions and collaboration have the potential to set when teams have to face problems on their own. Together the individuals of the team strive to improve the processes of the team by adapting to different demands and learning from each other.\n\nCross training began to be heavily examined through the scope of modern Japanese management in the automobile industry in the 1970s. Sociologists examined the way in which the Japanese automobile firms cross-trained its employees through a company wide orientation and training program. As Japanese firms trained their employees in a multitude of aspects in the production process, sociologists discovered that the training brought the employees together and formed a connection in which all the employees were dedicated to the company’s mission. These established connections appeared to solicit cooperation among the work force. The Japanese auto plants revealed that flexibility within the production teams allowed employees to work on their own tasks while keeping others efficient.\n\nHigh-commitment practices are spin-offs from the natural system of managements. Like other management strategies in the natural system of management, High-commitment practices assume natural theories of motivation rather than the considerably different rational theories of motivation.\n\nIn terms of methods of motivating workers, differences between High Commitment Practices and strategies from the rational system of management are extreme. The rational system of management focuses on either punishments or incentives. For example, the earliest form of rational management, \"direct control\", encourages employee productivity by having supervisors oversee the production process and punish workers who are not producing enough outputs. Another form of rational management, \"bureaucratic control\", encourages productivity through career incentives like bonuses and promotions. However, High Commitment Practices, unlike any rational management, aim to stimulate productivity by encouraging employee commitment to the institution. For example, Data General, a corporation which advocates High Commitment Practices, manages to make employees love their tasks and grow attached to the corporation so much that many employees elect to work twelve hours, four more than Data General prescribes. Contrary to rational management, High Commitment Practices attempt to create scenarios in which employees aspire to deliver their best efforts.\n\nHigh Commitment Practices also differ from practices in the rational management system with regards to employee control. The rational system of management discourages job autonomy, believing that such freedom will only lower productivity because employees will elect not to work. For example, in \"scientific management\" and \"Fordism\", employees are micro-managed- they are given specific instructions on how to perform certain tasks. However, High Commitment Practices encourage job autonomy, creativity, and innovation, all of which institutions with High Commitment Practices believe will increase job satisfaction and commitment leading to increased outputs. While the rational system of management attempts to micro-manage employees, High Commitment Practices greatly encourage independence.\n\nWith respect to corporate structure, institutions employing rational management and institutions employing high commitment practices also differ. Institutions with rational management tend to have a steep hierarchy with many ranks between floor-workers and executives. For example, institutions employing bureaucratic control often have one entry level at the bottom of the hierarchy, and new recruits slowly work their ways up the seemingly endless ladder. Because these institutions have a steep hierarchy, those near the bottom of the chain are often alienated from higher ups Consequently, relationship between executives and workers are minimal. However, institutions which employ High Commitment Practices have fairly flat hierarchy and intra-firm networking is easy. As a result, most employees readily develop attachment to their on-job peers, bosses, and the institution, increasing their commitment. While the rational system of management maintains distance between executive and lower employees, High Commitment Practices foster good relationship between the two.\n\nWhile high-commitment practices are similar to other strategies in the system, particularly the Human Relations School, in terms of the three aspects previously discussed, their goals are different. Although both attempt to increase job satisfaction and make employees feel valued, High Commitment Practices seek to make employees feel attached to their institutions while the Human Relations School simply seek to make employees aspire to work because of the satisfaction gained from contributing outputs.\n\nWith the significant shift in the way firms are motivating their employees in recent years, many companies are beginning to realize that having a “strong corporate culture” is an important ingredient in organizational success. Employee commitment is “replacing traditional controls such as direct supervision and bureaucratic arrangements.” No longer do these high commitment workplaces rely on their CEOs to force the workers to produce, but instead, these workers are self-motivated to bring their best to the company.\n\nOne company that follows this high commitment model is Google. A little over a decade ago, Google was an unknown. Today, Google not only refers to the multinational corporation which provides Internet-related products and services, but it has also become a common verb many use every day—“just Google it.” What sets Google apart from many companies, however, is its unique corporate culture. Founded in 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin, the two men wanted Google to be a place where people would enjoy work. The company’s philosophies, which include principles such as “work should be challenging and the challenge should be fun” and “you can be serious without a suit”, are consistent with its innovative and informal environment.\n\nIn terms of organization, Google maintains “a casual and democratic atmosphere, resulting in its distinction as a ‘Flat’ company.” In its earlier years, Google had a fairly informal product-development system. Ideas moved upwards from “Googlers” without any formal review process from senior managers, and teams working on innovative projects were kept small. However, with the continuing expansion of the company, Google now holds weekly, all-hands (‘TGIF’) meetings at which employees ask questions directly to Larry Page, Sergey Brin, and other executives about any number of company issues. This is consistent with the idea that high commitment work systems “typically involve practices that enhance communication across organizational levels.” In addition, employees are encouraged to propose wild, ambitious ideas, and supervisors are assigned small teams to test if these ideas will work. Teams are made up of members with equal authority—“there is no top-down hierarchy”—and nearly everyone at Google carries a generic job title, such as “product manager.” \n\nGoogle hires those who are “smart and determined,” and it favors “ability over experience.” In an interview on the company’s corporate culture and hiring, Eric Schmidt, Google’s executive chairman, stressed the importance of evaluating potential hires’ passions and commitments in addition to their technical qualifications. He said that “people are going to do what they’re going to do, and you (company, leader) just assist them.” Google does not believe that its job is to manage the company; instead, it believes that its greatest task is to hire the right people. And once the company has those people, it “will see a building of ‘self-initiative’ behavior”—one of the important characteristics of people working in high commitment workplaces. As a result, all engineers at Google are allotted 20 percent of their time to work on their own ideas—some of which yield public offerings, such as Google News and Orkut, a social networking website.\n\nWhile there is substantial evidence that high commitment management practices have many benefits to the efficiency and well-being of the workplace as seen above, there are some disadvantages and difficulties found in the system.\n\nMuch of the research presenting strong evidence of success with high commitment management practices may actually be due to confounding variables. An example of this can be seen in research by Burton and O’Reilly who suggested that the benefits seen from high commitment practices may not be due to the practices themselves, but may result from on overarching system architecture or organizational logic. Another possibility they suggested was that good managers themselves pick this form of managing practice and therefore good managers may be a confounding variable. Thus it is possible that the relative success of these practices is in fact a result of reasons other than the practices themselves.\n\nIn the process of becoming a workplace with high commitment management practices, the transition can be difficult and in order to gain the full benefits of such practices full implementation is required. All companies must go through a transitioning stage from their previous form of management to high commitment management practices, however not all of the changes can be made at once. This transition can often be difficult for managers to find the right balance between enough and too much worker influence and change the management philosophy along with the practices. Full implementation of high commitment management practices is required in order to receive the full benefits of the system, and therefore during the transition period firms may not experience positive changes right away, which may provide disincentives for continuing the transition. This may explain why very few firms in the US have comprehensive commitment practices.\n\nHigh-commitment management practices are currently considered a universal approach seen to be effective in all firms, however the best form of management for a firm with a price-sensitive, high-volume commodity market will differ from a firm with a high-quality, low-volume market. This has been seen within the private and public sectors, where only some high-commitment management practices in the private sector have the same benefits in the public sector and the entire program cannot be transported. Managers may also face difficulty when implementing high commitment management practices as they face a tension between a consistent approach using the same practices throughout the entire workforce or adjusting their practices based on specific needs of different groups. As workforces become more diverse, this tension may become more pronounced.\n\nWhile it has been proven that workers feel positively towards high commitment management practices, it is also admitted that these practices portray workers as a resource or commodity that will be exploited by the organization. Therefore, even though positive effects have been shown, these practices are also seen as another management initiative to try to gain greater control and efficiency from employees. Therefore, these practices are still exploiting the worker. Workers do express excessive pressure and high insecurity when high commitment management practices are implemented. However, even though companies may have high commitment practices, which in itself mean companies will have little employee flexibility, if the nature of the company is such that they embrace change, then it is possible for these to coexist.\n\nTherefore, while there are many benefits proven to exist as a result of high commitment management practices, there are also disadvantages and difficulties incurred by management.\n"}
{"id": "32860004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32860004", "title": "Hisaakira Hijikata", "text": "Hisaakira Hijikata\n\nHijikata was born in Mie Prefecture. \nIn 1897, Hijikata was a BOJ trainee along with Junnosuke Inoue. Both young men were sent by the bank to learn about British banking practices in London.\n\nIn 1918, Hijikata was named head of the Industrial Bank of Japan.\n\nHijikata was Governor of the Bank of Japan from June 12, 1928 through June 4, 1935. During his tenure, financial difficulties in Europe and the suspension of the gold standard by the United Kingdom affected Japan; and the situation was exacerbated by the \"Manchurian disturbance\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2068838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2068838", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Moens", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Moens\n\nJean-Baptiste Philippe Constant Moens (27 May 1833, Tournai – 28 April 1908) was a Belgian philatelist recognized as the first dealer in stamps for collectors. He was one of the original philatelic journalists.\n\nMoens began collecting stamps from his family's mail as a boy in Tournai. He was the son of Colette Blangenois and Phillipe Moens, a soldier. He began with a small business in coins. By 1853, at age nineteen, he was buying and selling new and second-hand books, and stamps, from the Galerie Borthier, a covered walkway in central Brussels. Within a decade he was putting out a stamp catalog with illustrated supplements.\n\nIn March 1862, with Louis Hanciau, Moens published a catalog of stamps, the \"Manuel des collectionneurs de timbres-poste\" (Handbook for Stamp Collectors). This work is the first of its kind in Belgium and the second in the French language, following that of the Parisian, Alfred Potiquet. Also in 1862, he published \"De la falsification des timbres-poste\" (On the falsification of postage stamps) to alert stamp enthusiasts to the abundance of forgeries. He began the first French language philatelic monthly, \"Le Timbre-Poste\", which ran from 1863 until 1900, as well as a series on fiscal stamps from 1874 until 1896.\n\nMoens became the owner of eight of the \"Post Office\" Mauritius stamps. In 1878 Moens published the first of his works on the early stamps of Mauritius, \"Les Timbres de Maurice depuis leur origine jusqu'à nos jours,\" (The Stamps of Mauritius from their Origin until Today), benefiting from the studies of Edward B. Evans, the Philatelic Society of London, and Judge Frederick Philbrick. Helen Morgan noted, \"All that is known of the discovery of the first specimens of the Post Office issue, indeed of much of the history of the handful of those stamps eventually found, came from his pen in the late 1890s. He handled most of the Post Office stamps discovered by Madame Borchard in the late 1860s.\"\n\nMoens was an Honorary Member of the Fiscal Philatelic Society until his death.\n\nAs Moens' business prospered, he assembled a large stock of collectibles of all kinds and a library devoted to music and antiquities, as well as stamps. By 1 November 1899, to preserve his health, Jean-Baptiste announced in \"Le Timbre-poste\" that the time had come to free himself from the duties of publication and to liquidate most of his stock in trade. After selling his rarities, the residue of Moens' stock, with a catalogue value of £196,000 (1882 catalogue), was sold the following year to M Rubens, a stamp dealer of Copenhagen for an undisclosed figure. His philatelic publications were eventually sold to H. Edgar Weston, in London, in 1907.\n\nJean-Baptiste Moens died in Ixelles in 1908 and was interred there in the Ixelles Cemetery. His passing was noted by the philatelic press, many referring to him as \"The Father of Philately\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44347961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44347961", "title": "Jornal de Negócios", "text": "Jornal de Negócios\n\nJornal de Negócios (meaning \"Business Newspaper\" in English) is a Portuguese language business newspaper published in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\n\"Jornal de Negócios\" was started in 1997 as a finance website, being the first in the country. In 1998 it became a business newspaper and on 8 May 2003 it began to be published daily.\n\n\"Jornal de Negócios\" is owned by Cofina and is based in Lisbon. Its sister newspaper is \"Correio da Manhã\", also owned by Cofina. Both papers are published in tabloid format. The publisher of \"Jornal de Negócios\" is Mediafin-Sociedade Editora.\n\nIn 2003 \"Jornal de Negócios\" had a circulation of 10,000 copies. Its 2004 circulation was 8,000 copies. In 2007 the paper had a circulation of 8,000 copies. The circulation of the paper was 10,668 copies in 2009 and 10,501 copies in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "31068837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31068837", "title": "Jurg Zeltner", "text": "Jurg Zeltner\n\nJürg Zeltner (born 4 May 1967) is a Swiss Manager. He was the President of UBS Wealth Management from November 2014 to December 2017. He stepped down from the Group Executive Board at the end of 2017 and has retired from the firm as of 2018. He has served as a member of the UBS Group Executive Board since February 2009\n. From February 2009 to January 2012 he was co-CEO of Wealth Management and Swiss Bank. In February 2015, Zeltner ranked second among the best global private banking CEOs according to Euromoney private banking survey 2015.\n\nGrowing up, Zeltner wanted to study veterinary medicine, but ended up doing an internship at Swiss Bank Corporation which later merged with Union Bank of Switzerland to form his current employer UBS. Zeltner holds a diploma in Business Administration from the College of Higher Vocational Education in Bern and is a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.\n\nZeltner joined the Corporate Client division of the Swiss Bank Corporation (SBC) in 1987. Between 1987 and 1998, Zeltner occupied numerous roles at Swiss Bank Corporation (SBC) within the Private and Corporate Client division in Bern, New York City, and Zurich: Amongst other roles, Zeltner was Credit Risk Officer for Corporate and Institutional clients.\n\nFollowing the merger of SBC with the Union Bank of Switzerland (SBG/UBS) to become UBS in 1998, Zeltner was appointed as head of Portfolio Management for Risk Transformation and Capital Management.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2007 he occupied the position of CEO at UBS Deutschland, Frankfurt. In November 2007, he was appointed as Head of Wealth Management North, East & Central Europe. From February 2009 to January 2012 he was co-CEO of Wealth Management and Swiss Bank.\n\nHe was the President of UBS Wealth Management from November 2014 to December 2017.\n\nOn 14 December 2017, UBS announced that Zeltner will step down from GEB at the end of the year. He has retired from the firm as of 2018. The Board of Directors has appointed Martin Blessing, former President of Human Resources & Corporate Banking and President of UBS Switzerland, to succeed him as President Wealth Management.\n\nOn 17 November 2011, UBS held their annual Investor Day in New York. Jürg Zeltner gave a presentation on the UBS Wealth Management Division in which he outlined how the business is positioned in the financial markets and in view of future growth. He pointed out that UBS's strategy is centered around its wealth management business.\n\nIn February 2015, Jürg Zeltner was awarded second position among the ten best global private banking CEOs of 2015 and he revealed the strategies behind the Wealth Management division. According to him, there has been a shift from asset gathering and product manufacturing to clients advisory and, with the markets moving so rapidly, portfolio diversification. According to Zeltner the focus of wealth management must be on advising clients on how to position their portfolio and on carrying research on asset allocation and on investment management. With regard to the move of the Swiss National Bank to unpeg the Swiss franc from the euro, he affirmed that \"the sharp fall in the Swiss equity markets and the currency turmoil highlight the importance of portfolio diversification. Anyone who follows this principle and holds securities in all the world's major markets, hedging their currency risks, is financially better equipped to cope with this decision, giving UBS the opportunity to demonstrate to clients why they need us.\" In 2016, his work to improve private banking is appreciated even by his competitor. \n\n\nZeltner was Chairman of the UBS Optimus Foundation until he retired from the UBS at end of 2017.\n\nAt the World Economic Forum of 2015, UBS presented the Davos Challenge, Walk for Education, encouraging 1000 delegates to walk for bicycles for children in South Africa. Zeltner took the challenge together with Axel A. Weber and other UBS participants.\n\n"}
{"id": "46642360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46642360", "title": "Kirsten Oswald", "text": "Kirsten Oswald\n\nKirsten Frances Oswald (born 21 December 1972) is a Scottish National Party politician. She was first elected as the Member of Parliament (MP) for East Renfrewshire at the 2015 general election, but was unseated at the 2017 snap election on 8 June.\n\nOswald was born in Dundee and grew up in Carnoustie where she attended Carnoustie High School. She attended Glasgow University where she read History. She moved to East Renfrewshire with her husband and two sons in 2008. Her mother was Helen Oswald, Provost of Angus Council.\n\nOswald was head of Human Resources at South Lanarkshire College for twelve years. She became active in the Scottish National Party during the 2014 Scottish independence referendum, serving on the committee of her local Women for Independence group where she was responsible for local food bank collections.\n\nOn 30 January 2015, it was announced that Oswald was selected as the SNP candidate for the East Renfrewshire constituency at the 2015 general election. During her campaign, she was criticised for sending letters to Conservative voters asking for their support to beat Labour. Oswald stated that her letters served to contrast voter values with negative campaign tactics from the Conservatives that focused on keeping the SNP out of power.\n\nShe won the seat with a majority of 3,718 votes, unseating the-then Leader of the Scottish Labour Party, Jim Murphy. Murphy had held the seat since Labour's landslide victory eighteen years earlier, and resigned from the Scottish Labour leadership on 13 June 2015.\n\nAt the 2017 general election, Oswald lost her seat to Paul Masterton of the Conservatives, who won with a majority of 4,712 votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "661622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661622", "title": "Legislator", "text": "Legislator\n\nA legislator (or lawmaker) is a person who writes and passes laws, especially someone who is a member of a legislature. Legislators are usually politicians and are often elected by the people of the state. Legislatures may be supra-national (for example, the European Parliament), national (for example, the United States Congress), regional (for example, the National Assembly for Wales), or local (for example, local authorities).\n\nThe political theory of the separation of powers requires legislators to be different individuals from the members of the executive and the judiciary. Certain political systems adhere to this principle, others do not. In the United Kingdom, for example, the executive is formed almost exclusively from legislators (members of Parliament) although the judiciary is mostly independent (until reforms in 2005, the Lord Chancellor uniquely was a legislator, a member of the executive (indeed, the Cabinet), and a judge, while until 2009 the Lords of Appeal in Ordinary were both judges and legislators as members of the House of Lords, though by convention they did not vote in the House until retirement).\n\nIn continental European jurisprudence and legal discussion, \"the legislator\" (\"le législateur\") is the abstract entity that has produced the laws. When there is room for interpretation, the intent of the legislator will be questioned, and the court is supposed to rule in the direction it judges to best fit the legislative intent, which can be difficult in the case of conflicting laws or constitutional provisions.\n\nThe local term for a legislator is usually a derivation of the local term for the relevant legislature. Typical examples include\nThe generic term \"deputy\" may also be used, deriving from the concept that the legislator is \"deputising\" for the electorate of his electoral district.\n\nSome legislatures provide each legislator with an official \"substitute legislator\" who deputises for the legislator in the legislature if he or she is unavailable. Venezuela, for example, provides for substitute legislators (\"diputado suplente\") to be elected under Article 186 of its 1999 constitution. Ecuador and Panama also have substitute legislators.\n\n"}
{"id": "68140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68140", "title": "List of life sciences", "text": "List of life sciences\n\nThe life sciences or biological sciences comprise the branches of science that involve the scientific study of life and organisms – such as microorganisms, plants, and animals including human beings. \n\nLife science is one of the two major branches of natural science, the other being physical science, which is concerned with non-living matter. \n\nBy definition, biology is the natural science that studies life and living organisms, with the other life sciences being its sub-disciplines. \n\nSome life sciences focus on a specific type of organism. For example, zoology is the study of animals, while botany is the study of plants. Other life sciences focus on aspects common to all or many life forms, such as anatomy and genetics. Some focus on the micro scale (e.g. molecular biology, biochemistry) other on larger scales (e.g. cytology, immunology, ethology, ecology). Another major, branch of life sciences involves understanding the mindneuroscience.\n\nLife sciences discoveries are helpful in improving the quality and standard of life, and have applications in health, agriculture, medicine, and the pharmaceutical and food science industries.\n\nBiology – burst and eclectic field, composed of many branches and sub-disciplines. However, despite the complexity and the broad scope of the science, there are certain general and unifying concepts within it that govern all study and research, consolidating it into a single, coherent field. Here are some of biology's major branches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13212699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13212699", "title": "Louis Gerverot", "text": "Louis Gerverot\n\nLouis Victor Gerverot (8 December 1747 – 6 January 1829) was a French porcelain painter and businessman.\n\nGerverot was born in Lunéville. His father was a \"musicus\" (singer) at the court of Stanisław Leszczyński, former king of Poland, who became in 1737 the duke of Lotharingen. His mother, Barbe Oubert, sent him to the porcelain factory in Sèvres in 1764, to learn his trade. Possibly he had himself already asked to specialize in the painting of porcelain with flowers and (fantastical) birds. Gerverot became extremely able in the preparation of colour, clay mixtures, and (since his stay in Niderviller) in other trade secrets. His urge to travel and to turn his knowledge into money (or his inability to stay in any one place for long) resulted in his short periods in various porcelain factories. In succession, he was active in Ludwigsburg, Ansbach, Höchst, Fürstenberg and Frankenthal.\n\nIn 1767, Gerverot won a large sum in the city lottery of Mainz. In 1769, he came to Weesp, and worked in the porcelain factory of Bertrand Philip, count of Gronsveld, former envoy in Berlin, and now drost of Muiden and president of the Admiralty of Amsterdam. Production and activity did not take off and thus this enterprise, Holland's first porcelain factory, closed in 1771. Gerverot left for the faience- or porcelain factory of Offenbach am Main, Höchst and Ellwangen. In nearby Schrezheim, Gerverot worked at his own expense. \n\nMinister Joannes de Mol sent Gerverot a portrait of a minister-colleague in 1774 from which he made a bust, and in return de Mol brought Gerverot up to Oud-Loosdrecht as a manager, painter and pigment-maker. The designing of new models was not his strongest suit, but nevertheless Gerverot deserved his new salary, of 150 guilder per month.\n\nGerverot possibly lived an unconventional life, as may be seen from the fact that in 1776 he witnessed the christening of a child in the French Roman Catholic chapel. The child was named Louis Victor George d' Onis, with his father noted as George Alexander d' Onis and his mother a black woman, named Coba. The legality of their marriage was called into doubt by the authorities. \n\nGerverot in 1777 married Modesta Johanna Salomons, from Hamburg. In Amsterdam, they had three children: Louis Victor (born 1778), Johannes Victor (born 1780) and Georg Samuel (born in 1783, but buried in Amsterdam in 1784). L.V. Gerverot lived in the Plantage (plantation), then a large park with inns, speelhuizen (playhouses, where billiards was played) and brothels, now Artis and its surroundings. All his children were baptized at home, since he did not belong to a particular church. \n\nOn 1 March 1779, Gerverot was dismissed in Loosdrecht, having lent De Mol 28,000 guilder. Cooperation seemed to be impossible. Gerverot opened a porcelain store in Amsterdam, but early in 1788 had to declare bankruptcy. (This period in the life of Gerverot is unclear. It may be that he also worked in Cologne, Münster and Hanover). \n\nGerverot traveled to England and took employment with John Turner, one of Wedgwood's most significant competitors. In 1795, his purse again empty, he arrived in Brunswick and was taken on once more at the Fürstenberg factory. Two years later he was its manager. Under his leadership the factory became commercially successful for the first time in its existence. In 1814, Gerverot was dismissed for collaboration with the French. He died at Bevern.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52648420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52648420", "title": "Manfred Rein", "text": "Manfred Rein\n\nManfred Rein (19 December 1948, Dornbirn, Austria – 22 April 2016, Feldkirch, Austria) was an Austrian politician for the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) and president of the Economic Chamber of Vorarlberg.\n\nAfter completing grammar school in his hometown of Dornbirn, Rein went to the Handelsschule in Feldkirch. Subsequently, he completed studying as a tiler, which he completed in 1971. In 1976, he passed the master's examination for plate tiler and in 1980 founded his own company in Dornbirn.\n\nHe was married and lived with his wife as well as a son and a daughter in Dornbirn.\n\nFrom 1980 to 1994, Rein was a member of the Dornbirn City Council for the Austrian People's Party. From 1985 to 1994, he was also city councilor in Dornbirn. From 1995 until the end of 2008, he worked as a provincial councilor in the Vorarlberg state government. He was responsible for the areas of general economic affairs (economic and transport policy), economic law (business and water law), spatial planning and construction law, housing promotion, and traffic law and road construction.\n\nOn 20 November 2008, Rein was appointed by the General Assembly of the Vorarlberg branch of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber as the successor of the President of the Federal Economic Chamber, Kuno Riedmann. His successor as provincial councilor in the state government became Karlheinz Rüdisser. At the Landtag meeting on 10 December 2008, Rein resigned from office as provincial councilor and on the following day took his new position as President of the Federal Economic Chamber. He held this office until his death in 2016. He also served as chairman of the Vorarlberg branch of the ÖVP sub-organization Österreichische Wirtschaftsbund.\n\n"}
{"id": "2886582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886582", "title": "Meile Rockefeller", "text": "Meile Rockefeller\n\nMeile Louise Rockefeller (born December 5, 1955) is an American lawyer, philanthropist, heiress, and real-estate developer. She is the daughter of Rodman Clark Rockefeller and his first wife, Barbara Ann Olsen. Her paternal grandfather was New York Governor and U.S. Vice President Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller. She is a member of the Rockefeller family.\n\nMeile earned a bachelor's degree in political economics from Williams College in 1979 and a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree from New York University.\n\nRockefeller is a lawyer, real-estate developer, drug law reformer, and serves on the board of the Counseling Service of the Eastern District of New York.\n\nIn 2002, at age 46, Rockefeller was arrested for protesting the \"Rockefeller drug laws\" which bear the name of her grandfather, who secured their passage as governor of the state of New York in 1973. She was accompanied by her brother, Stuart Rockefeller, and was supported by other members of the family on the issue, including her grandfather's brother, Laurance Rockefeller.\n\n"}
{"id": "7324230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7324230", "title": "Mukhriz Mahathir", "text": "Mukhriz Mahathir\n\nDato' Seri Haji Mukhriz bin Mahathir (Jawi: مخريز بن محضير; born 25 November 1964) is a Malaysian politician who is the current Menteri Besar (Chief Minister) of the State of Kedah. From 2008 to 2013 he was the federal Deputy Minister of International Trade and Industry. He is the third son of Mahathir Mohamad, the current Prime Minister of Malaysia.\n\nHe is a former member of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) in Malaysia's ruling Barisan Nasional coalition. Like his father, he left UMNO in 2016. Mukhriz is currently the Deputy President of Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPBM, Malaysian United Indigenous Party) and the chairman of the Pakatan Harapan coalition in Kedah.\n\nIn 2004, he won election to the executive council of UMNO's youth wing, by garnering the highest number of votes of any candidate. He was also seen as a potential candidate for being the deputy chief of UMNO Youth, but he later withdrew his candidacy.\n\nMukhriz was noted for his continuous efforts in speaking for his father in the events of the rift between Prime Minister Tun Abdullah Ahmad Badawi and his father. In 2006, his father lost a bid to be elected as one of seven delegates from Kubang Pasu to UMNO's general assembly; Mukhriz was elected as one of the seven. Mukhriz drew flak from sections of UMNO after he commented on Prime Minister Abdullah's speech at the assembly that he was a \"little bit\" disappointed and that it had offered nothing new. He later apologised for his remarks.\n\nIn the 2008 Malaysian general election, Mukhriz won the Jerlun Parliament Seat with the sum of the DUN differing markedly from Parlimen. Before this, he offered himself to contest in Langkawi Parliament Seat but was rejected by 85 out of 91 UMNO branches in Langkawi. However, many Langkawi leaders backed him later. The Jerlun UMNO division welcomed Mukhriz to contest in their Parliament seat and promised to give him full support in the election.\n\nIn 2009, Mukhriz contested as a candidate for the new UMNO Youth Chief after the wing's predecessor, Datuk Seri Hishamuddin Hussein released his position. He was rivalled by Khairy Jamaluddin and Khir Toyo. Nominations for the posts coincided with division meetings which took place between October and November 2008. Mukhriz was initially seen as leading in nominations compared to Khairy but eventually lost in the final vote count.\n\nHowever, a controversy was sparked when Khairy was allowed to contest for the post even though he was found guilty for being involved with money politics by the UMNO Disciplinary Board, while others who were found guilty for the same offence, such as Mohd Ali Rustam who was supposed to contest for the UMNO Vice-President post, were not allowed to contest for their respective posts. However, Khairy denied the allegation, as stated in his blog.\n\nIn the 2013 election, Mukhriz gave up his seat in federal parliament to contest the Kedah State Assembly seat of Ayer Hitam. The move was taken with a view to becoming the Chief Minister of Kedah if the Barisan Nasional coalition could defeat the Pakatan Rakyat state government led by Azizan Abdul Razak. Mukhriz won Ayer Hitam (defeating the Pan-Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) incumbent), Barisan Nasional reclaimed the state government, and Mukhriz was sworn in as Chief Minister on 6 May, the day after the election, in the presence of his father.\n\nOn 21 June 2013 Mukhriz attempted to charge Penang for the use of water from a river located in Penang state, on the basis that the source of the water was in Kedah. In return the Chief Minister for Penang, Lim Guan Eng, requested the Kedah government to pay rent for the land which the river occupies in Penang state.\n\nIn January 2016, UMNO Kedah leaders, led by Ahmad Bashah Md Hanipah, declare the loss of confidence towards Mukhriz due to \"his inability to maintain a united party leadership\". The move is widely believed to be a reprisal orchestrated by the Prime Minister Najib Razak's camp in UMNO, which was increasingly infuriated by Mahathir's and Mukhriz's criticisms against Najib. He resigned on 3 February 2016 after losing the majority of support among the assemblymen. Ahmad Bashah, who is also the Bakar Bata assemblyman, succeeded him as the 12th Chief Minister of Kedah.\n\nMukhriz was expelled from UMNO together with Muhyiddin Yassin in June 2016.\n\nIn August 2016, Mukhriz together with Tun Dr Mahathir, Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin, Syed Saddiq Syed Abdul Rahman, Kamarulazman Habibur Rahman, Anina Saadudin and Akhramsyah Sanusi formed Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (PPBM).\n\nMukhriz is currently the Deputy President of PPBM and the Chairman of Pakatan Harapan in Kedah.\n\nIn the 2018 general election, the Pakatan Harapan (PH) coalition led by new Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, Mukhriz's father, won 18 of the 36 state assembly seats.\n\nHe took his oath of office before Kedah Sultan Tunku Sallehuddin Ibni Almarhum Sultan Badlishah in a ceremony held in Istana Anak Bukit.\n\nMukhriz attended Sophia University, in Tokyo, where he received a bachelor's degree in business management in 1982. He later received another bachelor's degree in marketing after graduating from Boston University in 1987.\n\nMukhriz has held various posts in several business firms, which include Opcom Holdings, Kosmo Tech as well as the Malaysian Franchise Association. He is also the executive director of Perdana Peace Global Organisation.\n\nMukhriz married Datin Paduka Norzieta Zakaria on 14 November 1993, and together, they have four children. He is currently serving as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Malaysian cancer vaccine company, Bioven.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4709328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4709328", "title": "Murtuza Mukhtarov", "text": "Murtuza Mukhtarov\n\nMurtuza Mukhtarov () (1857 – 1920) was an Azerbaijani oil industrialist and millionaire who built the Mukhtarov Palace in Baku and the Mukhtarov Mosque in Vladikavkaz.\n\nMukhtarov was born into a poor family in a village of Amirajan near Baku. Mukhtarov managed to become one of the most reputable drilling experts in Baku through his ability and many years of experience. He set up his own drilling company in 1890 and then diversified into oil production. The company specialized in manufacturing machinery for derricks and in drilling oil wells. He was the author of several patents on drilling equipment - unique feat amongst oil industrialists of the time. \n\nBusiness and enterprising millionaire built for himself magnificent mansion, which is now Wedding Palace in Baku. Another interesting fact from his life: with his wife they funded young singer Fatma Mukhtarova who would later go on to become a star of the Baku opera stage. \n\nMukhtarov sponsored schools and build mosques in Baku and surrounding areas. His fanciful Gothic Revival residence built for his wife Liza Mukhtarova by architect Józef Plośko in 1911-1912 is a celebrated example of the Baku oil boom architecture.\n\nMukhtarov committed suicide in his own residence after killing several Red Army soldiers on April 28, 1920 after Bolshevik takeover of Baku.\n\nMurtuza Mukhtarov was born in 1857 in the village of Amirjan (around Baku) in a poor family. During his childhood, Murtuza and his brother Bala Ahmed transported cargoes from Baku to Tiflis. In 1874, after selling his car Murtuza started working in one of the mines around Zabrat and Balakhani villages (near to Baku). An entrepreneur Martov discovered the will of M. Mukhtarov and instructed him about the use of drilling equipment, and in a short time, he was appointed to a foreman. After a while, sold the mining workshop drilling rig to him. Murtuza Mukhtarov made several changes in the machinery that he took over. At that time, all the people of Amircan village helped him by collecting money. Because of his dedication, Murtuza became to be known to more people. During this period, he got more technical knowledge from different engineers who worked for him relevant to the demands of the century. Business and enterprising millionaire also learned a lot about technical drawing. When signing documents, he rarely wrote his entire surname, typically his signature consisting of three letters \"Mux\". Like the other oil millionaires, Murtuza Mukhtarov has grown from the usual laborer to a million millionaire. After a long period of working as a plasterer, he transported oil by using carts and finally engaged in small contracts and started to drill oil wells in Baku and other cities within Russian empire such as Maykop and Grozny. Despite being born into a poor family and not having access to formal education, he managed to become a highly-qualified, self-taught engineer and one of the best boring specialists in Baku. His enormous experience and shrewdness propelled him into his own business in 1890 when he founded what became a substantially sized oil company with two divisions, employing 2,500 workers to manufacture machinery for derricks and bore new oil wells.\n\nMukhtarov has actively participated in the development of oil extraction technology in Baku. Without any high technical education, he was able to become an expert on oil drilling technologies. The \"Podrat drilling\" rig established in 1890 played a major role in drilling oil wells in Balakhani, Surakhani, Ramana and Sabunchu oil districts of Baku. Most of the wells in these areas are drilled by the \"Podrat Drill\" rig.\n\nAt that time he owned all oil wells around Baku-Buzovna railway. Thus the first station after Sabunchu is called \"Mukhtarovka\". In 1895 (for the first time in the world), he built a drilling rig with metal sticks and received copyright from the state. He then called his invention \"Baku Drilling System\". At the end of the 19th century, Mukhtarov opened a drilling equipment plant in Bibiheybat, which was considered the first oil equipment enterprise at that time. He also built three-storeyed residential buildings for the workers near the plant, thereby created new sources of labor and additional source of income. Oil millionaire invented wood chamfering machine in 1917. The equipment is being kept at the Mining Institute in St. Petersburg.\n\nM. Mukhtarov was selling the products of his plant to foreign countries and bought most of the equipment from abroad, especially from America. \n\nHe was not only involved in oil drilling process in Baku, but also signed contracts with the local oil barons in Maykop and Grozny, and had technical and business relationships with the owners' factories and oil mines in the North Caucasus.\n\nM. Mukhtarov was involved in many philanthropic works. A mosque and school in Amirjan village (built in 1910) and 17 buildings in Absheron, a dome on the grave of Akhund Mirza Abu Turab in Pirhasan (Mardakan, Baku) a mosque in Vladikavkaz was built under patronage of him. The Amirjan mosque with the minarets and their double balconies and decorations are very distinct as they rise 46 meters high. The workmanship in stone carving far exceeds that of any other mosque in Baku, the surrounding suburban areas or, for that matter, in the entire country. Many mosques were destroyed during the Soviet Period or were converted to other uses such as museums, but the Amirjan Mosque still stands today and is used as a place of worship. Murtuza Mukhtarov was the patron of Baku Realni College and Temirxan-Shura Gymnasium of Women, and the member of the Society for the spread of literacy and knowledge among the mountain-dwellers. He was also the member of the St. Petersburg Muslim Charitable Society and the founder of 40 scholarships for the students of high and vocational schools. Murtuza Mukhtarov, who was well-known as a benevolent and kind person, earnest entrepreneur, left many magnificent buildings as a legacy. A number of buildings that are preserved up to this day in Baku and its suburbs, in many cities of Russia, and in several European countries are connected with his name. The mosque in Vladivostok city, beautiful and magnificent buildings in Kislovodks, and Florence, Italy are built with his money. Murtuza Mukhtarov actively participated in nearly all charity societies and gave financial assistance. Together with his wife Liza-Khanum, known for her philanthropy, arranged a boarding school for poor and orphan girls inside the palace. In 1914, the Mukhtarovs' Palace became the residence of the first Female Moslem Philanthropic Society founded by Liza-Khanum. They financially supported many of these girls so they could continue their education in Moscow and St. Petersburg. She was also an active member of the Society to Combat Mortality among Children.\n\nWhile visiting Vladikavkaz, a town in southern Russia Mukhtarov fell in love with an Ossetian noble lady, Liza-Khanum Taganova. But when Mukhtarov proposed, her parents refused. It didn't matter that he was extremely rich. To them, he had not been born into nobility and did not come up to their social standing. Then, he undertook to build a magnificent mosque on the bank of Terek River. Of course, afterwards, it was impossible for the Taganovs to refuse him. As the couple did not have any children they dedicated themselves to the philanthropic works.\n\nThe Mukhtarov's Mansion is located in the centre of Istiglaliyyat Avenue (Independence Avenue). Built in the early 1910s by Azerbaijan oil millionaire Murtuza Mukhtarov, it was inspired by the magnate’s travels to Venice. Notable architect Jozef Ploshko designed this French Gothic edifice among a number of great buildings in the city. it housed a boarding school for poverty-stricken or orphaned girls (about 1914-1920) organized by the first Female Muslim Philanthropic Society, which Liza (Mukhtarov’s wife) established (1914). During the Soviet period, the Residence took on a new life and character of its own, somehow reminiscent of its past, when it was converted into Baku's Wedding Palace. To this day, it continues to serve that purpose and couples come to register their vows and make public their commitment of loyalty to one another in this majestic architectural landmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "12399913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12399913", "title": "Owen Cox", "text": "Owen Cox\n\nSir Edward Owen Cox (21 January 1866 – 30 July 1932), known as Owen Cox, was a Welsh-born Australian businessman and politician.\n\nCox was born in South Wales, was educated at Christ's Hospital, and went to sea at the age of fourteen. He left his first ship at Auckland, New Zealand, however, and went into the banking business. After a few years he returned to Britain, but then sailed to Australia and settled in Sydney. He became chairman of Birt & Co and a director of the Federal Steam Navigation Co Ltd. He was elected to the New South Wales Legislative Council in 1922.\n\nFor his war services, Cox was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in the 1918 New Year Honours and promoted to Knight Grand Cross (GBE) in the Dominion war honours of 1920.\n\nCox died in Monte Carlo, aged 66, after an illness lasting several months.\n\n"}
{"id": "54955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54955", "title": "Pantone", "text": "Pantone\n\nPantone LLC is a U.S. corporation headquartered in Carlstadt, New Jersey. The company is best known for its Pantone Matching System (PMS), a proprietary color space used in a variety of industries, primarily printing, though sometimes in the manufacture of colored paint, fabric, and plastics.\n\nX-Rite Inc., a supplier of color measurement instruments and software, purchased Pantone Inc. for $180 million in October 2007.\n\nPantone began in New York City in the 1950s as the commercial printing company of M & J Levine Advertising. In 1956, its founders, advertising executives brothers Mervin and Jesse Levine, hired recent Hofstra University graduate Lawrence Herbert as a part-time employee. Herbert used his chemistry knowledge to systematize and simplify the company's stock of pigments and production of colored inks; by 1962, Herbert was running the ink and printing division at a profit, while the commercial-display division was $50,000 in debt; he subsequently purchased the company's technological assets from the Levine Brothers for $90,000 () and renamed them \"Pantone\".\n\nThe company's primary products include the Pantone Guides, which consist of a large number of small (approximately 6×2 inches or 15×5 cm) thin cardboard sheets, printed on one side with a series of related color swatches and then bound into a small \"fan deck\". For instance, a particular \"page\" might contain a number of yellows of varying tints.\n\nThe idea behind the PMS is to allow designers to \"color match\" specific colors when a design enters production stage, regardless of the equipment used to produce the color. This system has been widely adopted by graphic designers and reproduction and printing houses. Pantone recommends that PMS Color Guides be purchased annually, as their inks become yellowish over time. Color variance also occurs within editions based on the paper stock used (coated, matte or uncoated), while interedition color variance occurs when there are changes to the specific paper stock used.\n\nThe Pantone Color Matching System is largely a standardized color reproduction system. By standardizing the colors, different manufacturers in different locations can all refer to the Pantone system to make sure colors match without direct contact with one another.\n\nOne such use is standardizing colors in the CMYK process. The CMYK process is a method of printing color by using four inks—cyan, magenta, yellow, and black. A majority of the world's printed material is produced using the CMYK process, and there is a special subset of Pantone colors that can be reproduced using CMYK. Those that are possible to simulate through the CMYK process are labeled as such within the company's guides.\n\nHowever, most of the Pantone system's 1,114 spot colors cannot be simulated with CMYK but with 13 base pigments (14 including black) mixed in specified amounts.\nThe Pantone system also allows for many special colors to be produced, such as metallics and fluorescents. While most of the Pantone system colors are beyond the printed CMYK gamut, it was only in 2001 that Pantone began providing translations of their existing system with screen-based colors. Screen-based colors use the RGB color model—red, green, blue—system to create various colors. The (discontinued) Goe system has RGB and LAB values with each color.\n\nPantone colors are described by their allocated number (typically referred to as, for example, \"PMS 130\"). PMS colors are almost always used in branding and have even found their way into government legislation and military standards (to describe the colors of flags and seals). In January 2003, the Scottish Parliament debated a petition (reference PE512) to refer to the blue in the Scottish flag as \"Pantone 300\". Countries such as Canada and South Korea and organizations such as the FIA have also chosen to refer to specific Pantone colors to use when producing flags. US states including Texas have set legislated PMS colors of their flags. It has also been used in an art project by the Brazilian photographer Angelica Dass which applies Pantone to the human skin color spectrum.\n\nOn September 5, 2007, Pantone introduced the Goe System. Goe consisted of over 2,000 new colors in a new matching and numbering system. In addition to the standard swatch books (now called the GoeGuide), the new system also included adhesive-backed GoeSticks, interactive software, tools, and an online community where users were able to share color swatches and information.\n\nThe Goe system was streamlined to use fewer base colors (ten, plus clear coating for reflections) and accommodate many technical challenges in reproducing colors on a press.\n\nThe Pantone Goe system was discontinued in November 2013.\n\nIn mid-2006 Pantone, partnering with Vermont-based Fine Paints of Europe, introduced a new line of interior and exterior paints. The color palette uses Pantone's color research and trending and has more than 3,000 colors.\nIn November 2015, Pantone partnered with Redland London to create a collection of bags inspired from Pantone's authority on color.\n\nPantone also produced Hexachrome, a patented six-color printing system. In addition to custom CMYK inks, Hexachrome added orange and green inks to expand the color gamut, for better color reproduction. It was therefore also known as a CMYKOG process. Hexachrome was discontinued by Pantone in 2008 when Adobe Systems stopped supporting their HexWare plugin software.\n\nPantone Color Manager allows for users of the Adobe Creative Suite as well as other software to import the most up to date information inclusive of L*a*b* numbers as well as CMYK and RGB representations of all the various palettes. L*a*b* numbers allow for the most accurate representation of color in a device independent manner.\n\nSince 2000, the Pantone Color Institute declares a particular color \"Color of the Year\". Twice a year the company hosts, in a European capital, a secret meeting of representatives from various nations' color standards groups. After two days of presentations and debate, they choose a color for the following year; for example, the color for summer 2013 was chosen in London in the spring of 2012. The color purportedly connects with the zeitgeist; for example, the press release declaring Honeysuckle the color of 2011 said \"In times of stress, we need something to lift our spirits. Honeysuckle is a captivating, stimulating color that gets the adrenaline going – perfect to ward off the blues.\" The results of the meeting are published in \"Pantone View\", which fashion designers, florists, and many other consumer-oriented companies purchase to help guide their designs and planning for future products.\n\nIn 2012, the color of the year, Tangerine Tango, was used to create a makeup line, in partnership with Sephora. The product line, named Sephora + Pantone Universe collection, features Tangerine Tango–embellished false lashes; nail lacquers, cream, glitters, and high-pigment lip glosses.\n\nThe person behind Pantone's Color of the Year, Executive Director of the Pantone Color Institute Leatrice Eiseman, explains in an interview how 2014's Color of the Year, Radiant Orchid, was chosen:\nPantone has said that color \"has always been an integral part of how a culture expresses the attitudes and emotions of the times.\"\n\nPantone asserts that their lists of color numbers and pigment values are the intellectual property of Pantone and free use of the list is not allowed. This is frequently held as a reason Pantone colors cannot be supported in open-source software and are not often found in low-cost proprietary software. Pantone has been accused of \"being intentionally unclear\" about its exact legal claims, but it is acknowledged that \"the simplest claim would be trademark misappropriation or dilution towards someone who produced a color palette marketed as compatible with Pantone's\". Pantone palettes supplied by printer manufacturers can be obtained freely, and usually do not come with usage restrictions beyond a sales ban on hard copies of the palette.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36118351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36118351", "title": "Payment by Results", "text": "Payment by Results\n\nPayment by Results (PbR) is a type of public policy instrument whereby payments are contingent on the independent verification of results. It is being actively promoted by a number of governments for more effective implementation of domestic policy. \n\nThere is also increasing interest in the field of international development, where PBR is often referred to either as 'results-based aid' (where the funding relationship is between a donor and a recipient country) or 'results-based financing' (where the funding relationship is between a developing country government or a development agency, and public or private sector providers). There are also a number of other terms in use which can often lead to confusion and a lack of clarity.\n\nPbR instruments have three key features:\n\nThere are many cases of PbR models being used to achieve domestic policy goals, in particular the delivery of social or community services, with payments linked to the results a provider achieves, rather than its inputs and processes. The use of PbR models is often promoted as a way to drive service improvements and achieve increased value for money by aligning incentives to desired outcomes.\n\nIn practice, a diverse range of PbR models have been implemented by Governments, varying by the degree to which: \n\n\nThe purest form of PbR is Payment by Outcomes, which seeks to maximise payments linked to outcomes. This is where the commissioner (central or local Government) is fully able to contract in terms of the outcomes it wants and to transfer the financial risk of non-delivery to providers. However, commissioners may face a number of challenges that may make a pure Payment by Outcomes approach either impractical or sub-optimal in terms of achieving the aims of PbR models. These challenges largely stem from commissioners’ ability to manage different risks and responsibilities, especially in relation to their understanding of desired outcomes and their measurement. \n\nChallenges can include outcomes only being delivered beyond the provider or investor’s return horizon, meaning an earlier payment or proxy outcome must be used; having sufficient confidence that the cash savings used to fund the payment of outcomes will ultimately be realised (e.g. that a reduction in re-offending translates to a reduction in prison capacity); finding a contractual solution that ensures transactional costs are reasonable; and determining how far the delivery of outcomes is attributable to the actual intervention rather than other services or background factors. Commissioners may also find providers are reluctant to accept all of the delivery risk (e.g. where there is a dependency on future Government actions or policies) or where Government cannot truly transfer all of the delivery risk.\n\nThere are no known cases where all Government services are commissioned out. Furthermore, PbR will not always be the optimal contracting model, especially where in-house delivery is more appropriate, or where greater control is required over the service to be delivered.\n\nPayment by results was introduced in the management of British schools in June 1862. National funding for individual schools, eventually rising to about half, depended in part on the outcomes of examinations of the pupils conducted by school inspectors. The system was deeply unpopular with teachers and led to increased unionisation. The system was abandoned in 1890.\n\nA national tariff was introduced to the British NHS in 1990 and is still in operation in the English NHS. It is now prescribed in the National Health Service Commissioning Board and Clinical Commissioning Groups (Responsibilities and Standing Rules) Regulations 2012. Clinical Commissioning Groups, and NHS England are required to enter into standard “Payment by Results” contracts with providers. Such a contract between an NHS commissioner and a hospital trust is compulsory for all services provided to NHS patients. NHS Improvement is required by section 116 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 to produce a National Tariff, which trusts must be paid for all the specified services. There is provision for an increase to the tariff. University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust was the first, and so far only one, in July 2015, to get an increase for its services agreed by Monitor (NHS) because of its \"increased costs associated with this trust running health services across multiple sites in rural locations\". It is paid more per episode for accident and emergency, surgery, trauma and orthopaedics, paediatrics, women’s health, and non-elective medical conditions. This is expected to increase the trust's income by more than £20 million per year.\n\nA range of different instruments in the field of international development can be characterized as Payment by Results, many of which seek to provide incentives for the achievement of both outcomes and outputs by developing country governments, public agencies, commercial operators and civil society organizations. By linking disbursement to results PBR is an alternative to the majority official development assistance (ODA), which is generally provided as grants, loans and guarantees, and is therefore disbursed in advance of delivery.\n\nProponents of PbR argue that this approach is more likely to deliver the desired development objective, with less scope for waste and greater freedom and incentive for the beneficiary to innovate or achieve the desired objective at least cost. Possible criticisms include the need for recipients to obtain pre-financing, the risk of unintended consequences, higher monitoring and verification costs, and the difficulty of setting the incentive at the optimum level (thereby leading to the risk of rent-seeking behavior).\n\nResults-based aid is concerned with incentivizing national-level outcomes and involves the linking of ODA (e.g. from bilateral or multilateral development agencies to developing country governments) to verifiable results, such as performance against one or more outcome indicators, or the successful implementation of a government program. Possible outcomes might include number of children passing an exam, an improvement in the infant mortality rate, or the number of people with a defined improvement in access to energy. \n\nResults-based financing is concerned with the delivery of national or sub-national outputs, and could be used by developing country governments (national or local), public agencies, or development agencies as incentive for the provision of goods or services, create or expand markets, or stimulate innovation. Possible target outputs might include the number of vaccines administered, the number of teachers that are trained, the number of new electricity connections that are provided in a defined area. Results-based financing includes approaches such as Output-Based Aid (OBA).\n\nExisting examples of PbR programs include the Global Partnership on Output-Based Aid and Results-Based Financing for Health. However, interest in PBR in the international development sector is growing. The UK Department for International Development is piloting Cash on Delivery Aid (a form of results-based aid) and results-based financing programs in a number of countries, the World Bank has recently launched Program-for-Results (PforR), a new results-based lending instrument, and the EU is exploring results-based approaches for the aid component of the multi-annual financial framework from 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "15158793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15158793", "title": "Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse", "text": "Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse\n\nPittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse (PLSG) is an investment firm based in the South Side neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that provides resources and tools to entrepreneurial life sciences enterprises in Pittsburgh and western Pennsylvania in order to advance research and patient care.\n\nSince PLSG began operations in 2002, it has assisted more than 435 life sciences companies and has affected more than 10,000 jobs in western Pennsylvania. PLSG has provided 34 companies with office or laboratory space, and 14 have been relocated to Pittsburgh from outside the region. PLSG has invested over $20 million in 77 companies, which has leveraged over $1.5 billion in additional capital to the region.\n\nPLSG guides researchers, entrepreneurs and emerging companies through the challenges faced in early stages of company development. They provide support to companies developing product and service innovations in biotechnology tools, diagnostics/screening, healthcare IT, medical devices and therapeutics. PLSG also helps in the expansion of more mature life science companies, by supporting new product and market developments and connecting them to investors.\n\nPittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse grew out of an original plan known as BioVenture, developed by CMU and Pitt. The initiative received a major boost in 2001 when money from the state's settlement with the tobacco industry was pledged to create a life science greenhouse in Western Pennsylvania. In 2003, Pittsburgh Biomedical Corporation, a non-profit established in 1988 by the Pittsburgh Technology Council, consolidated with PLSG.\n\nToday, PLSG exists as a partnership between the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and the regional foundation of community. Their state mission is to \"create, nurture and help establish a globally dominant life sciences industry in western Pennsylvania.\" \n\nCapital Investment Programs:\n\nPLSG’s Technology Development Fund is a program designed to benefit the local economy. The Early Stage Fund is geared toward seed and early-stage life sciences companies, and works to achieve rapid company formation and technology commercialization milestones. Portfolio companies Cohera Medical, ALung Technologies and Personal Health Recording for Quality of Life have all seen success from the funds.[1]\n\nIn addition to funding, PLSG’s Business Growth Programs help regional innovators make entry to market and sustain company growth.\n\nVenture Capital Partnerships help to guide VC firms and angel investors to opportunities within PLSG Portfolio companies. Since start of operations in 2002, PLSG has committed over $20 million into 77 life sciences companies and have attracted over $1 billion in additional capital for these emerging businesses.\n\nBusiness Growth Programs:\n\nPLSG helps companies at every stage move from laboratory to marketplace, to realize their full potential. They assist in creating a management team and business model that can build and sustain companies through commercialization milestones.\n\nCompanies already generating product or service revenue can also growth their success with PLSG programs for market expansion, new product or service development, workforce development, investor relations and industry collaboration.\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.post-gazette.com/business/2014/04/05/Business-Briefs-143/stories/201404050019</nowiki>\n\nBiotechnology Companies:\n\n· Applied Isotope Technologies[1]\n\n· Celsense[2]\n\n· Crystalplex[3]\n\n· Falcon Genomics[4]\n\n· Immunetrics[5]\n\n· MS2 Array[6]\n\n· SpectraGenetics[1]\n\nDiagnostics:\n\n· Advanced Technology Healthcare Solutions\n\n· Cernostics[1]\n\n· Intelomed[2]\n\n· NanoLambda\n\n· RedPath Integrated Pathology[3]\n\nHealthcare IT:\n\n· Better Body[4] Image\n\n· Blenderhouse[5]\n\n· Brainstage[6]\n\n· Caliber Infosolutions[7]\n\n· Chronic Health Metrics\n\n· Hability[8]\n\n· Health Monitoring Systems[9]\n\n· MedRespond[10]\n\n· MedSage Technologies[11]\n\n· Mymedcoupons.com[12]\n\n· NewCare Solutions[13]\n\n· PHRQL[14]\n\n· Treatspace[15]\n\n· Well Bridge Health[16]\n\nMedical Devices:\n\n· ALung Technologies[17]\n\n· BioSafe[1]\n\n· Carmell Therapeutics[2]\n\n· ChemDAQ[3]\n\n· Circadiance[4]\n\n· Cohera Medical[5]\n\n· Flexicath[6]\n\n· Medrobotics[7]\n\n· NeuroInterventional Therapeutics\n\n· Neuro Kinetics[8]\n\n· Quantum Ops[9]\n\n· ReGear Life Sciences[10]\n\n· Rinovum[11]\n\n· Rubitection Inc.[12]\n\n· Separation Design Group[13]\n\n· Spinal MetRX\n\n· Starr Life Sciences[14]\n\n· Vytrace\n\n· Wright Therapy Products[15]\n\nTherapeutics:\n\n· ATRP Solutions[16]\n\n· Biomed Research & Technologies\n\n· Cognition Therapeutics[17]\n\n· Complexa[18]\n\n· Knopp Biosciences[19]\n\n· Launchcyte[20]\n\n· Lipella Pharmaceuticals[1]\n\n· LSEC\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.lipella.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://biosafe.com/</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://www.carmellrx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.chemdaq.com/</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.circadiance.com/</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://www.coheramedical.com/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://www.flexicath.com/</nowiki>\n\n[7] <nowiki>http://www.medrobotics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[8] <nowiki>http://www.neuro-kinetics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[9] <nowiki>http://quantumops.com/</nowiki>\n\n[10] <nowiki>http://regearlife.com/</nowiki>\n\n[11] <nowiki>http://rinovum.com/</nowiki>\n\n[12] <nowiki>http://rubitection.com/</nowiki>\n\n[13] <nowiki>http://www.separationdesign.com/</nowiki>\n\n[14] <nowiki>http://www.starrlifesciences.com/</nowiki>\n\n[15] <nowiki>http://www.wrighttherapy.com/</nowiki>\n\n[16] <nowiki>http://www.atrpsolutions.com/</nowiki>\n\n[17] <nowiki>http://www.cogrx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[18] <nowiki>http://www.complexarx.com/</nowiki>\n\n[19] <nowiki>http://www.knoppneurosciences.com/</nowiki>\n\n[20] <nowiki>http://launchcyte.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://www.cernostics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://intelomed.com/</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.redpathip.com/</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.betterbodyimage.com/story.php</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://blenderhouse.com/home/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://www.brainstage.com/</nowiki>\n\n[7] <nowiki>http://www.caliberindia.com/</nowiki>\n\n[8] <nowiki>http://www.hability.net/index.php</nowiki>\n\n[9] <nowiki>http://www.hmsinc.com/</nowiki>\n\n[10] <nowiki>http://www.medrespond.com/</nowiki>\n\n[11] <nowiki>http://www.medsagetechnologies.com/</nowiki>\n\n[12] <nowiki>https://www.innovationworks.org/Our-Companies/Alphabetical-Listing/Portfolio-Details/ArticleId/899/MyMedCoupons-LLC</nowiki>\n\n[13] <nowiki>http://silentalertmonitor.com/index.html</nowiki>\n\n[14] <nowiki>http://www.phrql.com/</nowiki>\n\n[15] <nowiki>https://www.treatspace.com/</nowiki>\n\n[16] <nowiki>http://wellbridgehealth.com/</nowiki>\n\n[17] <nowiki>http://www.alung.com/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://spectragenetics.com/about-us/</nowiki>\n\n----[1] <nowiki>http://sidms.com/about</nowiki>\n\n[2] <nowiki>http://www.celsense.com/about.html</nowiki>\n\n[3] <nowiki>http://www.crystalplex.com/#start</nowiki>\n\n[4] <nowiki>http://www.falcongenomics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[5] <nowiki>http://www.immunetrics.com/</nowiki>\n\n[6] <nowiki>http://ms2array.com/</nowiki>\n\n\nVideo\n"}
{"id": "14972776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14972776", "title": "Prix Arts-Affaires de Montréal", "text": "Prix Arts-Affaires de Montréal\n\nThe Prix Arts-Affaires de Montréal are an initiative of the Conseil des arts de Montréal and the Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal, in partnership with Quebecor Inc., SITQ, in collaboration with daily newspaper Le Devoir, to reward businesses and individuals who have shown their support for Montréal arts and cultural organizations. A multidisciplinary design collective called Rita, composed of Stéphane Halmaï-Voisard, Karine Corbeil, and Francis Rollin, created the work of art that is presented to Prix Arts-Affaires winners.\n\nThe winners of the 2007 Prix Arts-Affaires de Montréal were as follows: SSQ Financial Group (Large enterprise category), TP1 (SME category), and Florence Junca-Adenot, UQAM professor, (Arts/Business personality category).\n\nIn 2006, the winners were Quebecor Inc. (Large enterprise category), the Caisse populaire Desjardins Group du Mont-Royal (SME category), and Alvin Segal, president and CEO of Vêtements Peerless Clothing Inc. (Arts/Business personality category). A citation of excellence was also presented to the Fasken Martineau law firm.\n"}
{"id": "42113520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42113520", "title": "Procurify", "text": "Procurify\n\nProcurify is a cloud-based procurement software company located in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Procurify's main product offering is a cloud-based procurement solution which can be used to manage company spending. Companies that offer procurement solutions will typically focus on automation and of company spending in real-time. The current Procurify platform is considered horizontal, rather than industry specific.\n\nProcurify is headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia and was founded in 2013 by CEO Aman Mann, CTO Eugene Dong, and COO Kenneth Loi.\n\nProcurify's cloud based procurement software solution is used by companies to manage organizational purchasing and procurement. Like most e-procurement solutions available, Procurify focuses on providing users features including digital purchase order submission and accounts payable automation. Procurify is hosted on the Amazon Web Services and is built using Django. The solution is available as a SaaS. Procurify is offered as a browser-based and mobile procurement software.\n\nThe company founders are BCIT School of Business alumni who graduated together in Operations Management in 2011.\n\nThe idea for Procurify came from a BCIT class project where the founders Aman Mann - CEO, Eugene Dong - CTO, and Kenneth Loi - COO were randomly placed together to consult a Vancouver-based business on their internal processes.\n\nIn November 2012, they joined the Growlab Accelerator program.\nIn February 2013, Procurify graduated from Vancouver-based incubator program GrowLab.\nIn April 2014, Procurify raised a total of 1.2 Million seed round from venture capitalists Nexus Ventures, BDC and Mark Cuban.\nIn July 2015, Procurify raised another seed round totaling $4 Million from Point Nine Capital, Nexus Venture Partners and the Business Development Bank of Canada (BDC). Hootsuite’s CEO Ryan Holmes and its chief revenue officer Steve Johnson also participated in this round.\n"}
{"id": "46694383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46694383", "title": "Putin. War", "text": "Putin. War\n\n\"Putin. War\" () is a report based on materials prepared by the Russian opposition politician Boris Nemtsov about the 2014–15 Russian military intervention in Ukraine. Published on the website \"Putin. Itogi\" on 12 May 2015, it covers the preparations for the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation and the involvement of Russian troops in the war in Donbass. The report includes testimonials of Russian soldiers taken prisoner in Ukraine and photos of Russian military personnel who died in the hostilities.\n\nBoris Nemtsov began working on the report at the end of January 2015. After Nemtsov's assassination, his close associate Ilya Yashin headed a team of opposition journalists and activists, who continued writing the report and prepared it for publication.\n\nThe epigraph of the report is a post by Boris Nemtsov in Facebook on 31 January 2015:\nThe task of the opposition today is education and truth.And the truth is that Putin is war and crisis.\n\nThe report consists of a preface, 11 chapters and a conclusion. It has 65 large-format pages with 46 color photographs and 8 charts.\n\nChapters:\nChapters cover the events from the beginning of Euromaidan when the Kremlin developed plans for the \"annexation of Crimea\" up to the start of 2015. The report includes information from relatives of Russian servicemen who died in Ukraine. The authors write that Putin's \"hybrid war\" involves doublethink, falsehoods and сowardliness, concluding:\n\nThe cowardly and despicable war unleashed by Putin will cost the country a lot. We will be paying for this adventure with the lives of our soldiers, economic crisis and political isolation.\n\nWe will pay with enmity from our long-time allies. No people are closer and more like kin to the Russians than the Ukrainians. These are our brothers - without any pathos -- and the war between Russians and Ukrainians in Donbass is impossible to characterize in any other way except as fratricide.\n\nThis war is the shame of our country. But the problem will not go away by itself. Putin must be stopped. And this can only be done by the Russian people themselves.\n\nLet us stop this war together.\nA special issue of the \"European Union Foreign Affairs Journal\" (EUFAJ) from Germany includes an English translation of the entire report as well as the original text in Russian (publication date 21.05.2015).\n\nAn American NGO, the Free Russia Foundation, also published a translation of the report into English. It was presented on 28 May 2015 at the Atlantic Council in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn Russia, 14 printing companies refused to publish the report. PayPal blocked an account raising funds for the report.\n\nThe head of the NGO \"Officers of Russia\" Anton Tsvetkov sent a statement to the Prosecutor General of the Russian Federation with a request to verify the report \"Putin. War\" for the presence of false information. Tsvetkov said that the facts in the report are based on distorted and anti-Russian sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "54110842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54110842", "title": "Ray Gammell", "text": "Ray Gammell\n\nRay Gammell is an Irish businessman and the interim Group CEO of the Etihad Aviation Group since May 2017. \n\nGammell was born in Greystones, Ireland.\n\nGammell graduated from the University College Dublin with a Masters Degree and is a chartered officer at the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.\n\nHe has held executive positions for Intel in the US and Ireland, the Royal Bank of Scotland, and was an officer in the Irish Armed Forces.\n\nGammell joined Etihad in 2009 as the Chief People and Performance Officer, where he was responsible for developing the airline's people strategy and performance driven culture.\n\nIn May 2017, he was named as the Interim Group CEO of the Etihad Aviation Group, replacing the outgoing chief executive, James Hogan.\n"}
{"id": "32002853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32002853", "title": "Reaching Out MBA", "text": "Reaching Out MBA\n\nReaching Out MBA, Inc., often abbreviated as ROMBA, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that empowers LGBT MBA students & LGBT MBA professionals to become professionals who will lead the way to equality in business education, in the workplace and throughout society. The organization seeks to educate, inspire and connect lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender graduate business students and school clubs through its year round events. This programming anchored by the annual Reaching Out LGBTQ MBA & Business Graduate Conference, which is held each year in October and brings together over 1,800 LGBT MBAs & other business graduate students and over 90 corporate partners.\n\nReaching Out MBA, Inc. was first granted non-profit status by the IRS in 2004, though the annual conference has been going on since 1999.\n\nReaching Out MBA Inc. is a 501(c)3 non-profit managed by a full-time Executive Director, two full-time staff members, and overseen by a 10-member independent Board of Directors. The Board of Directors positions include President, Secretary, and Treasurer; additionally there are six other Directors. Each member of the Board of Directors has participated as a leader for a Reaching Out MBA Inc programming.\n\nThe organization hosts year-round events anchored by the Annual Reaching Out LGBTQ MBA & Graduate (ROMBA) Conference, which attracts over 1,800 attendees annually with representation from 100 business school programs and over 90 corporate partners. The content of the annual Reaching Out LGBTQ MBA Conference is arranged by a team of current MBA students competitively selected from business schools across the globe.\n\nIn 2014 the organization, in coordination with top global business schools, launched the LGBTQ MBA Fellowship, a scholarship and leadership development program designed to foster the next generation of our business leaders. Each ROMBA Fellow receives a minimum $10,000/year scholarship as well as customized leadership training and mentorship. As of the 2017-2018 application cycle 41 schools participate in the program.\n\nAnother key program is the annual Reaching Out LGBTQ MBA Club Leadership Summit, which brings together rising LGBTQ MBA club leaders from business schools around the globe to network, discuss issues they are facing and ideate on solutions.\n\nIn late 2015, the organization announced that it would be operating the Friendfactor MBA Challenge program and integrate it into its existing on-campus LGBT MBA club program.\n\nEach year since 1999, the Reaching Out LGBTQ MBA & Graduate Conference (referred to as the ROMBA Conference) has been held in a major American city, and has been organized by a team of current MBA students from institutions all over the USA. The conference is planned and executed solely by unpaid volunteers each year. Over the course of the years, the conference size has grown dramatically, with recent years' attendance approaching or exceeding 1400. The conference includes opportunities for attendees to network with peers, learn by attending the panel sessions and guest lectures, and explore career opportunities by connecting with sponsor companies in the career expo. Each year over 90 companies, generally Fortune 500 companies, return to sponsor the conference each year, and use the conference as an opportunity to recruit LGBTQ MBA talent in the career expo portion of the event.The 2018 Conference will be hosted in Minneapolis, Minnesota with special guest-speaker, RuPaul Andre Charles.\n\nIn Fall 2014 The organization announced the Reaching Out LGBT MBA Fellowship. This LGBT MBA scholarship program was created as a joint effort between top business school programs and Reaching Out to demonstrate that business schools are outstanding opportunities for out LGBT young professionals and their active allies to build their careers. The Fellowship recipients will receive a minimum of $10,000 scholarship for each academic year, and also receive access to various Reaching Out programming, mentoring and LGBTQA leadership opportunities, some of which would be developed specifically for these Fellows.\n\nThe founding schools (with an entry Class in fall 2015) include Boston University Questrom School, Booth School of Business, Carnegie Mellon Tepper School of Business, Columbia Business School, Duke Fuqua School of Business, Harvard Business School, Haas School of Business, Kellogg School of Management, McCombs School of Business, MIT Sloan School of Management, New York University Stern School of Business, Rice University Jones School of Business, University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management, Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, UCLA Anderson School of Management, UNC Kenan-Flagler Business School, and Yale School of Management. \n\nThe Fellows admitted for the fall of 2017 will cumulatively receive over $2.5M from their schools. As of the 2017-2018 application cycle, 41 business schools across the globe were participating. \n\nROMBA maintains a library of cases dealing with LGBT issues in business. As of Fall 2014, the library includes thirteen cases including the Harvard Business Publishing case on Lisa Sherman taught regularly at business schools worldwide. The annual ROMBA Case Writing Competition provides an opportunity for students, faculty, and/or professionals to contribute compelling cases to expand the library as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "50633555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50633555", "title": "Right to disconnect", "text": "Right to disconnect\n\nThe right to disconnect is a proposed human right regarding the ability of people to disconnect from work and primarily not to engage in work-related electronic communications such as e-mails or messages during non-work hours. The modern working environment has been drastically changed by new communication and information technologies. The boundary between work life and home life has shrunk with the introduction of digital tools into employment. While digital tools bring flexibility and freedom to employees they also can create an absence of limits, leading to excessive interference in the private lives of employees. For this reason such a right is beneficial. Several countries, primarily in Europe, have some form of the right to disconnect included in their law, while in some cases it is present in the policy of many large companies. On July 24, 2018, the Petition 1057 called for introduction of the right to disconnect or as it is called in French “Le droit à la déconnexion” in the Labour Law in Luxembourg.\n\nThe right to disconnect emerged in France in a decision in the Labour Chamber of the French Supreme Court. The decision on 2 October 2001 held that \"the employee is under no obligation either to accept working at home or to bring there his files and working tools\". In 2004 the Supreme Court affirmed this decision and ruled that \"the fact that [the employee] was not reachable on his cell phone outside working hours cannot be considered as misconduct.\"\n\nThe government of France passed the El Khomri law to reform working conditions for French people. Article 55 under Chapter II \"Adapting the Labour Law to the Digital Age\" (\"Adaptation du droit du travail à l'ère du numérique\") included a provision to amend the French Labour Code to include the right to disconnect (\"le droit de la déconnexion)\". Article 55(1) amended Article L. 2242-8 of the Labour Code by adding a paragraph (7); \"(7) The procedures for the full exercise by the employee of his right to disconnect and the establishment by the company of mechanisms for regulating the use of digital tools, with a view to ensuring respect for rest periods and leave as well as personal and family life. Failing agreement, the employer shall draw up a charter, after consultation with the works council or, failing that, with the staff delegates. This charter defines these procedures for the exercise of the right to disconnect and furthermore provides for the implementation, for employees and management and management personnel, of training and awareness-raising activities on the reasonable use of digital tools.\"\"\"7° Les modalités du plein exercice par le salarié de son droit à la déconnexion et la mise en place par l'entreprise de dispositifs de régulation de l'utilisation des outils numériques, en vue d'assurer le respect des temps de repos et de congé ainsi que de la vie personnelle et familiale. A défaut d'accord, l'employeur élabore une charte, après avis du comité d'entreprise ou, à défaut, des délégués du personnel. Cette charte définit ces modalités de l'exercice du droit à la déconnexion et prévoit en outre la mise en œuvre, à destination des salariés et du personnel d'encadrement et de direction, d'actions de formation et de sensibilisation à un usage raisonnable des outils numériques\"\" As prescribed in Article 55(2), Article 55(1) entered into force on January 1, 2017.\n\nThe government of France adopted the right into its Labour Code in response to a September 2015 report on the impact of digital technologies on labour which supported a right to \"professional disconnection\". The report was presented to the French Minister of Labour Myriam El Khomri after the previous minister sought information on the effect of digital transformation on Labour. The report recommended such a measure stating that a correct balance between work and private life is essential to allow digital transformation to have a positive effect on workers' quality of life and that knowing how to disconnect was a skill which needs to be supported by employers. The report identified cognitive and emotional overload which can lead to a sense of fatigue as a psycho-social risk of being constantly connected.\n\nThe government viewed it necessary to adopt such a law to adapt to the changing nature of the workplace, recognizing that digital technologies have blurred the line between work and private lives. It viewed the introduction of the right to disconnect necessary for the health of French employees.\n\nThe introduction of this law followed a 2016 study that discovered that 37% of workers were using professional digital tools (e.g. work mobile phones) outside of work hours and that 62% of workers wanted more controls and rules to regulate this.\n\nThe right to disconnect is applied to each company in its own way. The El Khomri Law introduces the right but does not define it, allowing companies to choose the most practical ways to implement the right taking into consideration the nature of the business (for example, whether it operates with countries in foreign time zones, or whether the employees work nights or in the weekend). For companies with more than 50 employees the right is to be included in their Mandatory Annual Negotiation (MAN) on gender equality and the nature of quality of life at work, that is already required by the El Khomri Law, by considering ways in which the use of digital tools can be regulated and the means to do this. In the absence of this a \"charter of good conduct\" is to be negotiated with union representatives detailing the times that employees can disconnect from their digital tools, when they would not be expected to connected to their smartphones or laptops. Companies with less than 50 employees are expected to release a document to their employees outlining the rules for their company.\n\nThe right as it exists in the El Khomri Law does not extend to those independent workers who are part of online crowdworking regimes.\n\nThe law does not provide any guidance on possible ways to manage the use of digital tools or ways to train or raise awareness among workers. Additionally, while the new law imposes an obligation for large companies to negotiate there is no obligation to reach an agreement, therefore if no agreement is reached between company and employees the right cannot be applied and enforced. It is assumed that the obligation that applies to small companies, for employers to draw up a charter, would then apply. Again there is no penalty for companies who do not do this. Furthermore, such a charter has no legal value in France, unless it contains terms providing or sanctions against employees which allow it to be considered as an appendix to the internal rules of a company.\n\nEmployers who fail to include the right to disconnect in the MAN are liable to criminal prosecution for obstructing the exercise of union rights, punishable by 1 year in prison and a €3,750 fine.\n\nIt is likely that other European Union nations will follow the example of France and enact a similar law themselves. Outside of a formalized right it is likely that employees and unions could negotiate for similar provisions to apply the right to disconnect to their own workplace, resulting in the right becoming commonplace by human resource management best practice, industry practice, or contractual norms.\n\nWhile not having actual laws relating to the right to disconnect, German companies have a history of implementing policies to the same effect.\n\nVolkswagen implemented a policy in 2011 stating that it would stop email servers from sending emails to the mobile phones of employees between 6pm and 7am. Other German companies such as Allianz, Telekom, Bayer and Henkel all have similar policies in place to limit the amount of digital connection employees have after work hours.\n\nIn 2013 Germany's employment ministry banned its managers from contacting staff after hours as part of a wider agreement on remote working. It was done in order to protect the mental health of workers.\n\nIn 2014, automobile company Daimler introduced a software called \"Mail on Holiday\" that its employees could use to automatically delete incoming emails while they were on vacation. This was done to allow Daimler's employees the opportunity to get a break and come back to work refreshed.\n\nGerman employment minister in 2014, Andrea Nahles, sought to introduce \"anti-stress legislation\" in response to the rising levels of stress and mental health issues in Germany. Such legislation would ban companies from making contact with employees out of work hours. Nahles commissioned the Federal Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to produce a report researching mental health in the work place and the viability of legislation to target it. The report was completed and published in 2017.\n\nThe right to disconnect has recently entered Italian law through Senate Act no 2233-B \"Measures to safeguard non-entrepreneurial self-employment and measures to facilitate flexible articulation in times and places of subordinate employment\". Article 19(1) of the Act governs the implementation for an Agreement on Aggregate Work and includes some form of the right to disconnect.\"The Agreement on Aggregate Work shall be stipulated in writing for the purpose of administrative and probative regularity and shall govern the performance of the work performed outside the premises of the company, including with regard to the forms of exercise of the executive power the employer and the tools used by the worker. \"The agreement also identifies the worker's rest periods as well as the technical and organizational measures necessary to ensure that the worker is disconnected from the technological equipment\".\" [emphasis added]\"L'accordo relativo alla modalità di lavoro agile è stipulato per iscritto ai fini della regolarità amministrativa e della prova, e disciplina l'esecuzione della prestazione lavorativa svolta all'esterno dei locali aziendali, anche con riguardo alle forme di esercizio del potere direttivo del datore di lavoro ed agli strumenti utilizzati dal lavoratore. L'accordo individua altresì i tempi di riposo del lavoratore nonché le misure tecniche e organizzative necessarie per assicurare la disconnessione del lavoratore dalle strumentazioni tecnologiche di lavoro.\"\n\nHouse Bill 4721 was introduced to the Seventeenth Congress of the House of Representatives of the Philippines in January 2017. The long title of the proposed Act is \"An act granting employees the right to disconnect from work-related electronic communications after work hours\" and seeks to amend the Labour Code of the Philippines (Presidential Decree No.442). Firstly it aims to make time spent engaging with work-related electronic tools outside of work hours come under the definition of 'hours worked' under Article 48, secondly it would insert Articles 48-A and 48-B which read;\"Right to disconnect -- An employee shall not be reprimanded, punished, or otherwise subjected to disciplinary action if he or she disregards a work-related communication sent after work-hours, subject to the terms and conditions of the policy to be established by the employer as required in Article 84-B hereof\"\"Policy on after-hours use of technology -- It shall be the duty of every employer to establish the hours when employees are not supposed to send or answer work-related e-mails, texts, or calls. The employer shall determine the conditions and exemptions therefrom, subject to such rules and regulations as the Secretary of Labor and Employment may provide\"This bill has already begun to take effect. In February 2017 the Department of Labour and Employment in the Philippines stated that employees have a right to disconnect from work after hours by disregarding work-related communications without facing discipline.\n\nThe bill has received the support of the General Alliance of Workers Association (GAWA), a labour group in the Philippines. GAWA particularly supports the amendment to Article 48 calling it undeclared labour. GAWA cited the dangers of constant connection as a reason why the bill should pass, referring to the risk of burning or physical and mental stress caused by inability to rest. Additionally they pointed out that employers would see benefits as their employees would be more productive.\n\nThe right to disconnect shares similarities with several preexisting human rights. The most notable of these is the right to rest and leisure found in article 24 of the UDHR. This right explicitly places limitations on the amount of time people can work for, something that the right to disconnect takes further and places into the modern age. The right to disconnect also crosses into the article 23 of the UDHR, that everyone has the right to work and receive fair remuneration and to join trade unions to protect their interests.\n\nThe International Labour Organization is also a relevant source of measures and rights supplementary to the right to disconnect. A recent study endorsed by the ILO has affirmed the need for workers to be able to disconnect from technology in order to avoid the blurring of the lines between work life and personal life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "161266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161266", "title": "Robert Duvall", "text": "Robert Duvall\n\nRobert Selden Duvall (; born January 5, 1931) is an American actor and filmmaker, whose career spans more than six decades. He has been nominated for seven Academy Awards (winning for his performance in \"Tender Mercies\"), seven Golden Globe Awards (winning four), and has multiple nominations and one win each of the BAFTA, Screen Actors Guild Award, and Emmy Award. He received the National Medal of Arts in 2005. Duvall has starred in numerous films and television series, including \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1962), \"The Twilight Zone\" (1963), \"The Outer Limits\" (1964), \"Bullitt\" (1968), \"True Grit\" (1969), \"MASH\" (1970), \"THX 1138\" (1971), \"Joe Kidd\" (1972), \"The Godfather\" (1972), \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), \"The Conversation\" (1974), \"Network\" (1976), \"Apocalypse Now\" (1979), \"The Great Santini\" (1979),\n\"The Natural\" (1984), \"Lonesome Dove\" (1989), \"The Handmaid's Tale\" (1990), \"Days of Thunder\" (1990), \"Rambling Rose\" (1991), and \"Falling Down\" (1993).\n\nDuvall began appearing in theatre during the late 1950s, moving into television and film roles during the early 1960s, playing Boo Radley in \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1962) and appearing in \"Captain Newman, M.D.\" (1963). (1970) and the lead role in \"THX 1138\" (1971), as well as Horton Foote's adaptation of William Faulkner's \"Tomorrow\" (1972), which was developed at The Actors Studio and is Duvall's personal favorite. This was followed by a series of critically lauded performances in commercially successful films.\n\nSince then, Duvall has continued to act in both film and television with such productions as \"Tender Mercies\" (1983), \"The Natural\" (1984), \"Colors\" (1988), the television miniseries \"Lonesome Dove\" (1989), \"Stalin\" (1992), \"The Man Who Captured Eichmann\" (1996), \"Phenomenon\" (1996), \"A Family Thing\" (1996), \"The Apostle\" (1997), \"A Civil Action\" (1998), \"Deep Impact\" (1998), \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" (2000), \"Open Range\" (2003), \"Gods and Generals\" (2003), \"Secondhand Lions\" (2003), \"Broken Trail\" (2006), \"Get Low\" (2010), \"Jack Reacher\" (2012), \"A Night in Old Mexico\" (2014), \"The Judge\" (2014), and \"Wild Horses\" (2015).\n\nDuvall was born January 5, 1931, in San Diego, California, the son of Mildred Virginia (; 1901–c. 1985), an amateur actress, and William Howard Duvall (1904–1984), a Virginia-born U.S. Navy admiral. He has English, and smaller amounts of Belgian, French Huguenot, German, Scottish, Swiss-German, and Welsh ancestry. His mother was a relative of American Civil War General Robert E. Lee, and a member of the Lee Family of Virginia, while his father was a descendant of settler Mareen Duvall. Duvall was raised in the Christian Science religion and has stated that, while it is his belief, he does not attend church. He grew up primarily in Annapolis, Maryland, site of the United States Naval Academy. He recalled: \"I was a Navy brat. My father started at the Academy when he was 16, made captain at 39 and retired as a rear admiral.\" He attended Severn School in Severna Park, Maryland, and The Principia in St. Louis, Missouri. He graduated, in 1953, from Principia College in Elsah, Illinois, with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Drama.\n\nDuvall served in the United States Army for a brief period shortly after the Korean War (from August 19, 1953, to August 20, 1954) leaving the Army as private first class. \"That's led to some confusion in the press,\" he explained in 1984, \"Some stories have me shooting it out with the Commies from a foxhole over in Frozen Chosin. Pork Chop Hill stuff. Hell, I barely qualified with the M-1 rifle in basic training\". While stationed at Camp Gordon (later renamed Fort Gordon) in Georgia, Duvall acted in an amateur production of the comedy \"Room Service\" in nearby Augusta, Georgia.\n\nIn the winter of 1955, Duvall began studies at the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre in New York City, under Sanford Meisner, on the G.I. Bill. During his two years there, Dustin Hoffman, Gene Hackman, and James Caan were among his classmates. While studying acting, he worked as a Manhattan post office clerk. Duvall remains friends today with fellow California-born actors Hoffman and Hackman, who he knew during their years as struggling actors. In 1955, Duvall roomed with Hoffman in a New York City apartment while they were studying together at the Playhouse. Around this time, he also roomed with Hackman, while working odd jobs such as clerking at Macy's, sorting mail at the post office, and driving a truck. The three roommates have since earned, among themselves, 19 Academy Award nominations, with five wins.\n\nDuvall began his professional acting career with the Gateway Playhouse, an Equity summer theatre based in Bellport, Long Island, New York. Arguably his stage debut was in its 1952 season when he played the Pilot in \"Laughter In The Stars\", an adaptation of \"The Little Prince\", at what was then the Gateway Theatre.\n\nAfter a year's absence when he was with the U.S. Army (1953–1954), he returned to Gateway in its 1955 summer season, playing: Eddie Davis in Ronald Alexander's \"Time Out For Ginger\" (July 1955), Hal Carter in William Inge's \"Picnic\" (July 1955), Charles Wilder in John Willard's \"The Cat And The Canary\" (August 1955), Paris in Arthur Miller's \"The Crucible\" (August 1955), and John the Witchboy in William Berney and Howard Richardson's \"Dark of the Moon\" (September 1955). The playbill of \"Dark of the Moon\" indicated that he had portrayed the Witchboy before and that he will \"repeat his famous portrayal\" of this character for the 1955 season's revival of this play. For Gateway's 1956 season (his third season with the Gateway Players), he played the role of Max Halliday in Frederick Knott's \"Dial M for Murder\" (July 1956), Virgil Blessing in Inge's \"Bus Stop\" (August 1956), and Clive Mortimer in John van Druten's \"I Am a Camera\" (August 1956). The playbills for the 1956 season described him as \"an audience favorite\" in the last season and as having \"appeared at the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York and studied acting with Sandy Meisner this past winter.\"\n\nIn its 1957 season, he appeared as Mr. Mayher in Agatha Christie's \"Witness For The Prosecution\" (July 1957), as Hector in Jean Anouilh's \"Thieves' Carnivall\" (July 1957), and the role which he once described as the \"catalyst of his career\": Eddie Carbone in Arthur Miller's \"A View from the Bridge\" (from July 30 to August 3, 1957, and directed by Ulu Grosbard, who was by then a regular director at the Gateway Theatre). Miller himself attended one of Duvall's performances as Eddie and also during this performance he met important people that allowed him to, in two months, land a \"spectacular lead\" in the \"Naked City\" television series.\n\nWhile appearing at the Gateway Theatre in the second half of the 1950s, he was also appearing at the Augusta Civic Theatre, the McLean Theatre in Virginia and the Arena Theatre in Washington, DC. The 1957 playbills also described him as \"a graduate of the Neighborhood Playhouse\" (indicating that he had completed his studies there by the summer of 1957), \"a member of Sanford Meisner's professional workshop\" and as having worked with Alvin Epstein, a mime and a member of Marcel Marceau's company. By this time (also July 1957), his theatrical credits included performances as Jimmy in \"The Rainmaker\" and as Harvey Weems in Horton Foote's \"The Midnight Caller\". Already receiving top-billing at the Gateway Playhouse, in the 1959 season, he appeared in lead roles as Stanley Kowalski in Tennessee Williams' \"A Streetcar Named Desire\" (July–August 1959), Maxwell Archer in \"Once More with Feeling\", Igor Romanoff in Peter Ustinov's \"Romanoff and Juliet\", and Joe Mancuso in Kyle Crichton's \"The Happiest Millionaire\" (all in August 1959).\n\nAt the Neighborhood Playhouse, Meisner cast him in Tennessee Williams' \"Camino Real\" and the title role of Harvey Weems in Foote's one-act play \"The Midnight Caller\". The latter was already part of Duvall's performance credits by mid-July 1957.\n\nHe made his off-Broadway debut at the Gate Theater as Frank Gardner in George Bernard Shaw's \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" on June 25, 1958. This play closed three days later (June 28) after five performances. His other early off-Broadway credits include the role of Doug in the premiere of Michael Shurtleff's \"Call Me By My Rightful Name\" on January 31, 1961, at One Sheridan Square and the role of Bob Smith in the premiere of William Snyder's \"The Days and Nights of BeeBee Fenstermaker\" on September 17, 1962, until June 9, 1963, at the Sheridan Square Playhouse. His most notable off-Broadway performance, for which he won an Obie Award in 1965 and which he considers his \"Othello\", was as Eddie Carbone (again) in Miller's \"A View From the Bridge\" at the Sheridan Square Playhouse from January 28, 1965, to December 11, 1966. It was directed again by Ulu Grosbard with Dustin Hoffman. On February 2, 1966, he made his Broadway debut as Harry Roat, Jr in Frederick Knott's \"Wait Until Dark\" at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre. This played at the Shubert Theatre and George Abbott Theatre and closed on December 31, 1966, at the Music Box Theatre. His other Broadway performance was as Walter Cole in David Mamet's \"American Buffalo\", which opened at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre on February 16, 1977, and closed at the Belasco Theatre on June 11, 1977.\n\nIn 1959, Duvall made his first television appearance on \"Armstrong Circle Theater\" in the episode \"The Jailbreak\". He appeared regularly on television as a guest actor during the 1960s, often in action, suspense, detective, or crime dramas. His appearances during this time include performances on \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\", \"Naked City\", \"The Untouchables\", \"Route 66\", \"The Twilight Zone\", \"The Outer Limits\", \"The Fugitive\", \"T.H.E. Cat\", \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\", \"The Time Tunnel\", and \"The Mod Squad\".\n\nDuvall's screen debut was as Boo Radley in the critically acclaimed \"To Kill a Mockingbird\" (1962). He was cast in the film on the recommendation of screenwriter Horton Foote, who met Duvall at Neighborhood Playhouse during a 1957 production of Foote's play, \"The Midnight Caller\". Foote, who collaborated with Duvall many more times over the course of their careers, said he believed Duvall had a particular love of common people and ability to infuse fascinating revelations into his roles. Foote has described Duvall as \"our number one actor.\"\n\nAfter \"To Kill a Mockingbird\", Duvall appeared in a number of films during the 1960s, mostly in midsized parts, but also in a few larger supporting roles. Some of his more notable appearances include the role of Capt. Paul Cabot Winston in \"Captain Newman, M.D.\" (1963), Chiz in \"Countdown\" (1968), and Gordon in \"The Rain People\". Duvall had a small part as a cab driver who ferries McQueen around just before the chase scene in the film \"Bullitt\" (1968). He was the notorious malefactor \"Lucky\" Ned Pepper in \"True Grit\" (1969), in which he engaged in a climactic shootout with John Wayne's Rooster Cogburn on horseback.\n\nDuvall became an important presence in American films beginning in the 1970s. He drew a considerable amount of attention in 1970 for his portrayal of the dastardly Major Frank Burns in the film \"MASH\" and for his portrayal of the title role in \"THX 1138\" in 1971 where he plays a fugitive trying to escape a society controlled by robots. His first major critical success came portraying Tom Hagen in \"The Godfather\" (1972) and \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), the 1972 film earning him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. In 1976, Duvall played supporting roles in \"The Eagle Has Landed\" and as Dr. Watson in \"The Seven-Per-Cent Solution\" opposite Nicol Williamson, Alan Arkin, Vanessa Redgrave, and Laurence Olivier.\n\nDuvall received another Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor and won both a BAFTA Award and Golden Globe Award for his role as Lt. Colonel Kilgore in \"Apocalypse Now\" (1979). His line \"I love the smell of napalm in the morning\" from \"Apocalypse Now\" is regarded as iconic in cinema history. The full text is:\n\nDuvall received a BAFTA Award nomination for his portrayal of detestable television executive Frank Hackett in the critically acclaimed film \"Network\" (1976) and garnered an Oscar nomination for Best Actor in a Leading Role in \"The Great Santini\" (1979) as the hard-boiled Marine Lt. Col. \"Bull\" Meechum. The latter role was based on a Marine aviator, Colonel Donald Conroy, the father of the book's author Pat Conroy. He also co-starred with Laurence Olivier and Tommy Lee Jones in \"The Betsy\" (1978) and portrayed United States President Dwight D. Eisenhower in the television miniseries \"Ike\" (1979).\n\nIn 1977, Duvall returned to Broadway to appear as Walter Cole in David Mamet's \"American Buffalo\". For his performance, he received a Drama Desk Award nomination for Outstanding Actor in a Play.\nDuvall continued to appear in films during the 1980s, including the roles of cynical sportswriter Max Mercy in \"The Natural\" (1984) and Los Angeles police officer Bob Hodges in \"Colors\" (1988). He won an Oscar for Best Actor as country western singer Mac Sledge in \"Tender Mercies\" (1983). Duvall was said to have written the music, but the actor said he wrote only a few \"background, secondary songs.\" Duvall did do his own singing, insisting it be added to his contract that he sing the songs himself; Duvall said, \"What's the point if you're not going to do your own [singing]? They're just going to dub somebody else? I mean, there's no point to that.\"\n\nActress Tess Harper, who co-starred, said Duvall inhabited the character so fully that she only got to know Mac Sledge and not Duvall himself. Director Bruce Beresford, too, said the transformation was so believable to him that he could feel his skin crawling up the back of his neck the first day of filming with Duvall. Beresford said of the actor, \"Duvall has the ability to completely inhabit the person he's acting. He totally and utterly becomes that person to a degree which is uncanny.\" Nevertheless, Duvall and Beresford did not get along well during the production and often clashed during filming, including one day in which Beresford walked off the set in frustration.\n\nIn 1989, Duvall appeared in the miniseries \"Lonesome Dove\" in the role of Captain Augustus \"Gus\" McCrae, Texas Rangers (retired). He has considered this particular role to be his personal favorite. He won a Golden Globe Award and earned an Emmy Award nomination. For his role as a former Texas Ranger peace officer, Duvall was trained in the use of Walker revolvers by the Texas marksman Joe Bowman.\n\nDuvall has maintained a busy film career, sometimes appearing in as many as four in one year. He received Oscar nominations for his portrayals of evangelical preacher Euliss \"Sonny\" Dewey in \"The Apostle\" (1997)—a film he also wrote and directed—and played lawyer Jerome Facher in \"A Civil Action\" (1998).\n\nHe directed \"Assassination Tango\" (2002), a thriller about one of his favorite hobbies, tango. He portrayed General Robert E. Lee in \"Gods and Generals\" in 2003.\n\nOther roles during this period that displayed the actor's wide range included that of a crew chief in \"Days of Thunder\" (1990), a retiring cop in \"Falling Down\" (1993), a Hispanic barber in \"Wrestling Ernest Hemingway\" (1993), a New York tabloid editor in \"The Paper\" (1994), a rural doctor in \"Phenomenon\" (1996), a father who owns a jumper horse farm in \"Something to Talk About\" (1995), an abusive father in 1996's \"Slingblade\", an astronaut in \"Deep Impact\" (1998), a mechanic in \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" (2000), a soccer coach in \"A Shot at Glory\" (2001), a police officer in \"John Q\" (2002), a trail boss in \"Open Range\" (2003), another soccer coach in the comedy \"Kicking & Screaming\", an old free spirit in \"Secondhand Lions\" (2003), a Las Vegas poker champion in \"Lucky You\", and a New York police chief in \"We Own the Night\" (both 2007).\n\nHe has his own star on the St. Louis Walk of Fame.\n\nDuvall has periodically worked in television from the 1990s on. He won a Golden Globe Award and garnered an Emmy nomination for his portrayal of a brutal and corrupt communist leader Joseph Stalin in the 1992 television film \"Stalin\". He was nominated for an Emmy again in 1997 for portraying Adolf Eichmann in \"The Man Who Captured Eichmann\". In 2006, he won an Emmy for the role of Prentice \"Print\" Ritter in the revisionist Western miniseries \"Broken Trail\".\n\nIn 2005, Duvall was awarded a National Medal of Arts by President George W. Bush at the White House. In 2014, he starred in \"The Judge\" alongside Robert Downey Jr.. While the movie itself received mixed reviews, Robert Duvall's performance was praised. He has been nominated for a Golden Globe, Screen Actors Guild, and Academy Award for his supporting role. In 2015, at age 84, Duvall became the oldest actor ever nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in the film \"The Judge,\", a record that has since been surpassed by Christopher Plummer.\n\nDuvall has been married four times but does not have any children. He met his first wife, Barbara Benjamin, a former dancer on \"The Jackie Gleason Show\", during the shooting of \"To Kill a Mockingbird\". She had two daughters from her first marriage. The couple were married from 1964 until 1975. His second wife was Gail Youngs, to whom he was married from 1982 to 1986. His marriage to Youngs temporarily made him the brother-in-law of John Savage, Robin Young, and Jim Youngs. His third marriage was to Sharon Brophy, a dancer, from 1991 to 1995.\n\nIn 2005, Duvall married his fourth wife, Luciana Pedraza, granddaughter of Argentine aviation pioneer Susana Ferrari Billinghurst. He met Pedraza in Argentina, recalling, \"The flower shop was closed, so I went to the bakery. If the flower shop had been open, I never would've met her.\" They were both born on January 5, but Duvall is 41 years older. They have been together since 1997. He produced, directed, and acted with her in \"Assassination Tango\", with the majority of filming in Buenos Aires. Duvall is also known as a very skilled Argentine Tango dancer, having a Tango Studio in Argentina and in the United States.\nDuvall's political views are variously described as libertarian or conservative. He was personally invited to Republican President George W. Bush's inauguration in 2001. In September 2007, he announced his support for Republican Presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani. Duvall worked the floor at the GOP's 2008 national convention and, according to an August 29, 2008, MSNBC article, Duvall narrated most of the videos for the convention. In September 2008, he appeared onstage at a John McCain–Sarah Palin rally in New Mexico.\n\nDuvall endorsed Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney in 2012. He revealed during a March 13, 2014, interview with \"The Daily Beast\", however, that he will probably vote independent, calling today's Republican Party \"a mess.\"\n\nIn 2001, Pedraza and Duvall founded the Robert Duvall Children's Fund to assist families in Northern Argentina through renovations of homes, schools, and medical facilities. Duvall and Pedraza have been active supporters of Pro Mujer, a nonprofit charity organization dedicated to helping Latin America's poorest women (with Duvall and Pedraza concentrating on Pedraza's home in the Argentine Northwest).\n\nIn May 2009, Duvall spoke for historic preservation against Walmart's proposal to build a store across the road from the entrance to the Wilderness Battlefield national park in Orange County, Virginia. In 2011, he appeared at the Texas Children's Cancer Center charity event, \"An Evening with a Texas Legend\", in Houston, where he was interviewed by Bob Schieffer.\n\n"}
{"id": "57177089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57177089", "title": "S.O. Shonibare", "text": "S.O. Shonibare\n\nSammuel Olatunbosun Shonibare (January 8, 1920 - January 1964) was a Nigerian businessman and politician who was a founding member of the Action Group (AG), he was an active member of the party from its formation until his death in 1964. Shonibare acted as the publicity secretary for the party and also performed fund raising duties for the Action Group.\n\nHe held the chieftaincy title of Asiwaju of Ijebu.\n\nBorn in January 1920 to the family of Sadiku Shonibare-Sanusi. His career began in 1936 as a clerk for U.A.C in Ibadan where he worked from 1936 to 1942, he was then promoted Chief Clerk and book-keeper at Ijebu-Ode in 1942. He rose to become office manager, technical department before leaving the firm in 1952. Upon leaving UAC, he joined Amalgamated Press, publishers of the Daily Service which was then a political mouth-piece of the Action Group. During his tenure, the company launched the \"Sunday Express\" an apolitical weekly magazine and also the launched \"Daily Express\" in partnership with the Thomson Group. Under his leadership, Amalgamated Press had editors like Bisi Onabanjo and Lateef Jakande, two future governors.\n\nIn 1958, Shonibare became managing director of the National Investment Property Company, he was invited to be the MD by S.O. Gbadamosi, a board member.\n\nWhile working for U.A.C. in Ijebu Ode, his supervisor was Mr Samuel Olukoya. At party in 1942, he was introduced to his daughter Ms Alice Olukoya, they got married in 1946.\n\nHe was managing director of a controversial company, National Investment and Properties Corporation, a private company that was linked with AG and the regional government and whose directors were party members. The company was formed 1958 by Action Group to evade a new legislation curtailing the use of banks to finance party activities. Previously, the party was involved in a murky arrangement with National Bank for financing. Under NIPC's relationship with AG, the private firm borrowed money from the Western regional marketing board to invest in the country. The money was used to develop some properties that included Cocoa House, Ibadan and Western House, Broad Street, Lagos. In 1962, a tribunal under Justice G.B.A. Coker probed a six-million-pound loan that was extended to NIPC by the Western Region Marketing Board. At the inquiry, it was noted that NIPC was an investment arm of the Action Group to fund party activities. The assets of NIPC were transferred to WEMABOD.\n\nWhen a state of emergency became effective in the region, Shonibare was limited to Ondo town; he died in January 1964, weeks after the state of emergency was lifted. Shonibare was chairman of Amalgamated Press Ltd, Ikeja, publishers of the now-defunct Daily Express and Daily Service. Prior to his death, he founded Shonny Investments which was in the process of developing Maryland Estate, he was also involved in a mobile film unit and a printing business.\n"}
{"id": "4498244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4498244", "title": "Salsola soda", "text": "Salsola soda\n\nSalsola soda, more commonly known in English as opposite-leaved saltwort, oppositeleaf Russian thistle, or barilla plant, is a small (to 0.7 m tall), annual, succulent shrub that is native to the Mediterranean Basin. It is a halophyte (a salt-tolerant plant) that typically grows in coastal regions and can be irrigated with salt water.\n\nThe plant has great historical importance as a source of soda ash, which was extracted from the ashes of \"Salsola soda\" and other saltwort plants. Soda ash is one of the alkali substances that are crucial in glassmaking and soapmaking. The famed clarity of 16th century \"cristallo\" glass from Murano and Venice depended upon the purity of \"Levantine soda ash,\" and the nature of this ingredient was kept secret. Spain had an enormous 18th century industry that produced soda ash from the saltworts ( in Spanish). Soda ash is now known to be predominantly sodium carbonate. In 1807, Sir Humphry Davy isolated a metallic element from caustic soda; he named the new element \"sodium\" to indicate its relationship to \"soda.\" Before soda was somewhat synonymous (in U.S. English) with soft drinks, the word referred to \"Salsola soda\" and other saltwort plants, and to \"sodas\" derived from soda ash.\n\nWhile the era of farming for soda ash is long past, \"S. soda\" is still cultivated as a vegetable that enjoys considerable popularity in Italy and with gourmets around the world. Its common names in Italian include \"barba di frate\", \"agretti\", and \"liscari sativa\" (short: lischi or lischeri). Of its culinary value, Frances Mayes has written that \"Spinach is the closest taste, but while \"agretti\" has the mineral sharpness of spinach, it tastes livelier, full of the energy of spring.\"\n\nThis annual, succulent plant can grow into small shrubs up to 0.7 m tall (sometimes called subshrubs). It has fleshy green leaves with either green or red stems. The tiny flowers develop from inflorescences that grow out of the base of the leaves near the stem.\n\n\"S. soda\" is native in Eurasia and North Africa. Historically, it was well known in Italy, Sicily, and Spain. In modern Europe, it is also found on the Atlantic coasts of France and Portugal and on the Black Sea coast.\nIt has become naturalized along the Pacific coast of North America,\nand there is concern about its invasiveness in California's salt marshes. It is also reported to be naturalized in South America.\n\nThe ashes obtained by the burning of \"S. soda\" can be refined to make a product called soda ash, which is one of the alkali materials essential to making soda-lime glass, soap, and many other products. The principal active ingredient is sodium carbonate, with which the term \"soda ash\" is now nearly synonymous. The processed ashes of \"S. soda\" contain as much as 30% sodium carbonate.\n\nA high concentration of sodium carbonate in the ashes of \"S. soda\" occurs if the plant is grown in highly saline soils (i.e. in soils with a high concentration of sodium chloride), so that the plant's tissues contain a fairly high concentration of sodium ions. \"S. soda\" can be irrigated with sea water, which contains about 40 g/l of dissolved sodium chloride and other salts. When these sodium-rich plants are burned, the carbon dioxide that is produced presumably reacts with this sodium to form sodium carbonate.\nIt is surprising to find a higher concentration of sodium than of potassium in plant tissues; the former element is usually toxic, and the latter element is essential, to the metabolic processes of plants. Thus, most plants, and especially most crop plants, are \"glycophytes\", and suffer damage when planted in saline soils. \"S. soda\", and the other plants that were cultivated for soda ash, are \"halophytes\" that tolerate much more saline soils than do glycophytes, and that can thrive with much larger densities of sodium in their tissues than can glycophytes.\n\nThe biochemical processes within the cells of halophytes are typically as sensitive to sodium as are the processes in glycophytes. Sodium ions from a plant's soil or irrigation water are toxic primarily because they interfere with biochemical processes within a plant's cells that require potassium, which is a chemically similar alkali metal element. The cell of a halophyte such as \"S. soda\" has a molecular transport mechanism that sequesters sodium ions into a compartment within the plant cell called a \"vacuole.\" The vacuole of a plant cell can occupy 80% of the cell's volume; most of a halophyte plant cell's sodium can be sequestered in the vacuole, leaving the rest of the cell with a tolerable ratio of sodium to potassium ions.\n\nIn addition to \"S. soda\", soda ash has also been produced from the ashes of \"Salsola kali\" (another saltwort plant), of glasswort plants, and of kelp, a type of seaweed. The sodium carbonate, which is water-soluble, is \"lixiviated\" from the ashes (extracted with water), and the resulting solution is boiled dry to obtain the finished soda ash product. A very similar process is used to obtain potash (mainly potassium carbonate) from the ashes of hardwood trees. Because halophytes must also have potassium ions in their tissues, even the best soda ash derived from them also contains some potash (potassium carbonate), as was known by the 19th century.\n\nPlants were a very important source of soda ash until the early 19th century. In the 18th century, Spain had an enormous industry producing \"barilla\" (one type of plant-derived soda ash) from saltwort plants. Similarly, Scotland had a large 18th-century industry producing soda ash from kelp; this industry was so lucrative that it led to overpopulation in the Western Isles of Scotland, and one estimate is that 100,000 people were occupied with \"kelping\" during the summer months. The commercialization of the Leblanc process for synthesizing sodium carbonate (from salt, limestone, and sulfuric acid) brought an end to the era of farming for soda ash in the first half of the 19th century.\n\nThe Italian name \"agretti\" is commonly used in English to refer to the edible leaves of \"S. soda\"; \"barba di frate\" (or friar's beard) is the most common of the Italian names. This plant is not a summer green and should be started early indoors or in autumn. The seed is notorious for poor germination at about 30 to 40% standard, much like rosemary. Though the plant is often grown in saltwater-irrigated land in the Mediterranean Basin, it will grow without salt water. \"S. soda\" is harvested in bunches when small, or cropped regularly to encourage new growth when mature. It is most commonly boiled and eaten as a leafy vegetable; the recommendation is to cook it in boiling water until the leaves soften, and to serve while some bite (crunch) remains (much like samphire). It can also be eaten raw; it is said to \"taste grassy and slightly salty with a pleasant, crunchy texture.\" \n\n\"S. soda\" is sometimes confused with a plant known in Japan as \"okahijiki\" (land seaweed), which is actually the species \"S. komarovi\". The harvested leaves of the two species have a similar appearance.\n\n\"S. soda\" has also been studied as a bioremediation \"biodesalinating companion plant\" for crops such as tomatoes and peppers when they are grown in saline soils. The \"Salsola soda\" extracts enough sodium from the soil to improve the growth of the crop plant, and better crop yields result despite the competition of the two plants for the remaining minerals from the soil.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306929", "title": "Singer Building", "text": "Singer Building\n\nThe Singer Building or Singer Tower, at Liberty Street and Broadway in Lower Manhattan's Financial District, in the U.S. state of New York, was a 47-story office building completed in 1908 as the headquarters of the Singer Manufacturing Company. It was the tallest building in the world from 1908 to 1909. It was torn down in 1968, together with the adjacent City Investing Building, and is now the site of One Liberty Plaza. When it was razed, it became the tallest building ever to be demolished, and is currently the third-tallest building ever to be destroyed (after the World Trade Center towers) and the tallest to be purposely demolished by its owner.\n\nThe building was commissioned by Frederick Bourne, the head of the Singer Sewing Machine Company. He hired architect Ernest Flagg, who was an early exponent of the Beaux-Arts architectural style. Flagg had also designed the company's previous headquarters at 561 Broadway between Prince and Spring Streets—in what is now the SoHo neighborhood—which was referred to as the \"Little Singer Building\" after the new building was erected. Plans and working drawings were prepared by George W. Conable.\n\nFlagg believed that buildings more than 10 or 15 stories high should be set back from the street, with the tower occupying only a quarter of the lot. The 12-story base of the building filled an entire blockfront, while the tower above was relatively narrow. The tower floors were squares 65 feet (20 m) on a side.\n\n\"New York Times\" architectural critic Christopher Gray wrote in 2005:\n\nThe lobby had the quality of \"celestial radiance\" seen in world's-fair and exposition architecture of the period, as the author Mardges Bacon described it in her 1986 monograph \"Ernest Flagg\" (Architectural History Foundation, MIT Press). A forest of marble columns rose high to a series of multiple small domes of delicate plasterwork, and Flagg trimmed the columns with bronze beading. A series of large bronze medallions placed at the top of the columns were alternately rendered in the monogram of the Singer company and, quite inventively, as a huge needle, thread and bobbin.\n\nAt tall, the Singer Building was the tallest office building in the world from its completion in 1908 until the completion in 1909 of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company Tower at 23rd Street and Madison Avenue in Manhattan.\n\nAs of November 1921, Catham and Phenix National Bank had its main office in the Singer Building.\n\nIn 1961, Singer sold the building and subsequently moved to Rockefeller Center. The building was then acquired by real estate developer William Zeckendorf, who sought unsuccessfully for the New York Stock Exchange to move there. In 1964, United States Steel acquired the building, along with the neighboring City Investing Building, for demolition. By the 1960s, the building was uneconomical because of its small interior dimensions. The tower portion of the building contained only per floor, compared with per floor of the building that replaced it, the U.S. Steel Building (currently known as One Liberty Plaza).\n\nAlthough New York had a newly created Landmarks Preservation Commission by the time demolition commenced in 1967, and the Singer Building was considered to be one of the most iconic buildings in the city, it did not receive landmark designation, which would have prevented it from being torn down. Alan Burnham, executive director of the commission, said in August 1967 that if the building were to have been made a landmark, the city would have to either find a buyer for it or acquire it. Demolition commenced in August 1967 and was completed the following year. At the time, it was the tallest building ever to be destroyed until the September 11, 2001 attacks, when the World Trade Center one block over collapsed. The Singer Building is currently the third-tallest building to be destroyed but is still the tallest building whose razing was anticipated.\n\n"}
{"id": "25306784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25306784", "title": "Sorin Ovidiu Vântu", "text": "Sorin Ovidiu Vântu\n\nSorin Ovidiu Vîntu (; 23 November 1955, Bucharest) is a Romanian businessman and owner of the Realitatea-Caţavencu media company. In 2008 he was considered the 5th richest man in Romania with an estimated net worth between 800 and 850 million euros.\n\nOn June 16, 2009, during a TV interview on B1 TV, president Traian Băsescu accused Vântu of tax evasion by allegedly not paying 60 million euros worth of Value Added Tax. Vântu later denied the accusation, and sued Băsescu for libel, asking for 1 million euros in damages.\n\nVântu was sentenced to two years in prison in 2005 for using some false documents to gain majority shares in the Investment and Development Bank (BID), which went bankrupt in 2002. Later the Bucharest Court of Appeals ordered by final decision the discontinuation of the trial finding that the charges passed their statute of limitations.\n\nOn June 21 2012, he was sentenced to one year in prison following the blackmail accusation of his ex business partner, Sebastian Ghiță.\n\nIn September 2010 he was briefly arrested, being accused of having helped Nicolae Popa, the former CEO of BID.\n\nOn February 21, 2016, he was sentenced to eight years in prison for a ponzi scheme. \n\n"}
{"id": "38413878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38413878", "title": "Spring Street (Manhattan)", "text": "Spring Street (Manhattan)\n\nSpring Street is a street in Lower Manhattan, New York City, which runs west–east, through the neighborhoods of Hudson Square, SoHo, and Nolita. It runs parallel to and between Dominick, Broome, and Kenmare Streets (to the south), and Vandam and Prince Streets (to the north). The street's addresses begin from the Bowery and run ascending to Spring Street's end at West Street, which runs along the Hudson River.\n\nAs it passes through the center of SoHo, Spring Street is known for its artists' lofts, restaurants, and trendy and high-end boutiques, as well as its collection of cast-iron buildings.\n\nAaron Burr's estate, Richmond Hill, was located in the area in the 1790s. Burr dammed Minetta Creek to create an ornamental pool by his estate's main gate, which was located near where Spring Street, MacDougal Street and Sixth Avenue come together.\n\nIn 1803, what would become Spring Street was the only street through the area, which was still rural, hilly and wooded. In May 1805, the street was ordered widened to 65 feet by the Common Council of the City of New York.\n\nThe street was named Brannon Street until 1806, because it ran through the garden of a man by that name at what is now Spring Street and Hudson Street. Its current name comes from a fresh water spring which ran through Lispenard's Meadow, at the place where West Broadway is now. The stream continues to run underground, occasionally flooding basements.\n\nIn 1834, anti-black race rioters, primarily Irish immigrants, broke into the Spring Street Presbyterian Church, the home church of abolitionist Dr. Henry G. Ludlow. It was at the time located at 250 Spring Street between Varick Street and Sixth Avenue, where it had been established in 1811. The rioters caused extensive damage to the church's organ, pews and galleries. Two years after the riot, in 1836, a Gothic Revival structure was completed, replacing the old church. It stood on the site until the 1960s. In the early 20th century, the church served an impoverished community in which, according to the pastor, \"Much of the neighborhood was lost in a kind of sodden apathy to which drunken quarrels brought release.\"\n\nThe corner of Spring Street and Broadway was the location of the St. Nicholas Hotel, a six-story, marble-faced, 600-room luxury establishment that was designed by either J. B. Snook or Griffith Thomas, and was completed in 1853. It was equipped with the newest technological conveniences, such as central heating, hot running water, and a telegraph office in the lobby. The interior of the hotel featured frescoes on the ceiling, gas light chandeliers and walnut wainscotting. The opulence of the hotel was such that one visitor described a stay there as: \"like an introduction to the palace of some Eastern prince.\" The building took up the full block between Spring and Broome Streets; only two small segments survive.\n\n\n\n\nThere were two songs written about Spring Street:\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "50131462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50131462", "title": "Tarek Aggad", "text": "Tarek Aggad\n\nTarek Omar Abdul Fattah Aggad (born 1971/72) ()is a Saudi businessman. He is the executive director of the Aggad Investment Company (AICO) - a Saudi diversified holding firm. Aggad sits on the board of directors of several manufacturing, distribution and services companies in Palestine, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. In 1994, the Arab Palestinian Investment Company (APIC) was founded by his father Omar Aggad. It is an investment company with nine subsidiaries in the fields of consumer goods, pharmaceuticals, cars, retail and construction materials and Tarek Aggad is the chairman, CEO, and owner of 27% of the company.\n\nSince its founding, APIC has become one of the largest operators in Palestine, employing over 1600 employees. Subsidiaries of APIC offer a wide array of products and services through distribution rights agreements with multinational companies that include Philip Morris, Procter & Gamble, Kellogg's, Hyundai, Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Alfa Romeo, Fiat, Fiat Professional, XL Energy, Abbott, B. Braun, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Sanofi Aventis and Nivea, among many others.\n\nAggad was born in Lebanon in 1971, the son of Omar Aggad, and grew up in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia where he attended local schools. He holds a bachelor's degree in Economics from Harvard University, US.\n\nAggad serves as a director on a number of boards including Aggad Investment Company, Palestine Investment Fund, Palestine Power Generation Company, Palestine Electric Company, Bank of Palestine, King Hussein Cancer Foundation, King’s Academy as well as other companies in Palestine, Jordan, and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn 2001, Aggad was named a Global Leader of Tomorrow (GLT) at the World Economic Forum in Davos. In 2006, President Mahmoud Abbas appointed Aggad as a director of the Palestine Investment Fund, the investment arm of the Palestinian people (PIF).\n\nHe is married to Shirine Aggad, and they have four children.\n"}
{"id": "55815782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55815782", "title": "The Strangest Secret", "text": "The Strangest Secret\n\nThe Strangest Secret was a 1957 spoken word record by Earl Nightingale which sold over one million copies and received the first Gold Record for the spoken word, which helped launch the fields of business motivation and audio publishing. It was later adapted into print and video forms.\n\nIn 1950 Earl Nightingale was inspired by the words \"we become what we think about\" in Napoleon Hill's book Think and Grow Rich around the same time he bought an insurance agency. He provided weekly motivational speeches to the agency's sales staff. In 1956, he recorded a motivational speech to be played while he was on vacation. Nightingale's employees spread word of the speech, and demand for the recording grew so large that he and friend Lloyd Conant formed the Nightingale-Conant Corporation to manage sales.\n\nThe audio recording was later adapted into print form as a short 44 page essay. The teachings focus on nonconformity and self-education, and summarizes that \"You are now, and you do become, what you think about.\"\n\nNightingale's recording has been redistributed in various mediums since its initial release. In 2018 Janice Bryant Howroyd released an updated version with her edits and enhancements, read from a female perspective.\n"}
{"id": "173070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=173070", "title": "The Wall Street Journal", "text": "The Wall Street Journal\n\nThe Wall Street Journal is a U.S. business-focused, English-language international daily newspaper based in New York City. The \"Journal\", along with its Asian and European editions, is published six days a week by Dow Jones & Company, a division of News Corp. The newspaper is published in the broadsheet format and online. The \"Journal\" has been printed continuously since its inception on July 8, 1889, by Charles Dow, Edward Jones, and Charles Bergstresser.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" is the largest newspaper in the United States by circulation. According to News Corp, in its June 2017 10-K filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the \"Journal\" had a circulation of about 2.277million copies (including nearly 1,270,000 digital subscriptions) , compared with \"USA Today\"s 1.7million. The newspaper, which has won 37 Pulitzer Prizes through 2017, derives its name from Wall Street in the heart of the Financial District of Lower Manhattan. \n\nThe \"Journal\" also publishes the luxury news and lifestyle magazine \"WSJ,\" which was originally launched as a quarterly but expanded to 12 issues as of 2014. An online version was launched in 1996, which has been accessible only to subscribers since it began.\n\nThe first products of Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of the \"Journal\", were brief news bulletins, nick-named \"flimsies\", hand-delivered throughout the day to traders at the stock exchange in the early 1880s. They were later aggregated in a printed daily summary called the \"Customers' Afternoon Letter\". Reporters Charles Dow, Edward Jones, and Charles Bergstresser converted this into \"The Wall Street Journal\", which was published for the first time on July 8, 1889, and began delivery of the Dow Jones News Service via telegraph. In 1896, The \"Dow Jones Industrial Average\" was officially launched. It was the first of several indices of stock and bond prices on the New York Stock Exchange. In 1899, the \"Journal\" Review & Outlook column, which still runs today, appeared for the first time, initially written by Charles Dow.\n\nJournalist Clarence Barron purchased control of the company for US$130,000 in 1902; circulation was then around 7,000 but climbed to 50,000 by the end of the 1920s. Barron and his predecessors were credited with creating an atmosphere of fearless, independent financial reporting—a novelty in the early days of business journalism. In 1921, Barron's, the United States's premier financial weekly, was founded. Barron died in 1928, a year before Black Tuesday, the stock market crash that greatly affected the Great Depression in the United States. Barron's descendants, the Bancroft family, would continue to control the company until 2007.\n\nThe \"Journal\" took its modern shape and prominence in the 1940s, a time of industrial expansion for the United States and its financial institutions in New York. Bernard Kilgore was named managing editor of the paper in 1941, and company CEO in 1945, eventually compiling a 25-year career as the head of the \"Journal\". Kilgore was the architect of the paper's iconic front-page design, with its \"What's News\" digest, and its national distribution strategy, which brought the paper's circulation from 33,000 in 1941 to 1.1million at the time of Kilgore's death in 1967. Under Kilgore, in 1947, the paper won its first Pulitzer Prize for William Henry Grimes's editorials.\n\nIn 1967, Dow Jones Newswires began a major expansion outside of the United States that ultimately put journalists in every major financial center in Europe, Asia, Latin America, Australia, and Africa. In 1970, Dow Jones bought the Ottaway newspaper chain, which at the time comprised nine dailies and three Sunday newspapers. Later, the name was changed to \"Dow Jones Local Media Group\".\n\n1971 to 1997 brought about a series of launches, acquisitions, and joint ventures, including \"Factiva\", \"The Wall Street Journal Asia\", \"The Wall Street Journal Europe\", the WSJ.com website, Dow Jones Indexes, MarketWatch, and \"WSJ Weekend Edition\". In 2007, News Corp. acquired Dow Jones. \"WSJ.\", a luxury lifestyle magazine, was launched in 2008.\n\nA complement to the print newspaper, \"The Wall Street Journal Online\", was launched in 1996 and has allowed access only by subscription from the beginning. In 2003, Dow Jones began to integrate reporting of the \"Journal\" print and online subscribers together in Audit Bureau of Circulations statements. In 2007, it was commonly believed to be the largest paid-subscription news site on the Web, with 980,000 paid subscribers. Since then, online subscribership has fallen, due in part to rising subscription costs, and was reported at 400,000 in March 2010. In May 2008, an annual subscription to the online edition of \"The Wall Street Journal\" cost $119 for those who do not have subscriptions to the print edition. By June 2013, the monthly cost for a subscription to the online edition was $22.99, or $275.88 annually, excluding introductory offers.\n\nOn November 30, 2004, Oasys Mobile and \"The Wall Street Journal\" released an app that would allow users to access content from the \"Wall Street Journal Online\" via their mobile phones.\n\nMany of \"The Wall Street Journal\" news stories are available through free online newspapers that subscribe to the Dow Jones syndicate. Pulitzer Prize–winning stories from 1995 are available free on the Pulitzer web site.\n\nIn September 2005, the \"Journal\" launched a weekend edition, delivered to all subscribers, which marked a return to Saturday publication after a lapse of some 50 years. The move was designed in part to attract more consumer advertising.\n\nIn 2005, the \"Journal\" reported a readership profile of about 60 percent top management, an average income of $191,000, an average household net worth of $2.1million, and an average age of 55.\n\nIn 2007, the \"Journal\" launched a worldwide expansion of its website to include major foreign-language editions. The paper had also shown an interest in buying the rival \"Financial Times\".\n\nThe nameplate is unique in having a period at the end.\n\nOn September 5, 2006, the \"Journal\" included advertising on its front page for the first time. This followed the introduction of front-page advertising on the European and Asian editions in late 2005.\n\nAfter presenting nearly identical front-page layouts for half a century—always six columns, with the day's top stories in the first and sixth columns, \"What's News\" digest in the second and third, the \"A-hed\" feature story in the fourth (with 'hed' being jargon for headline) and themed weekly reports in the fifth column – the paper in 2007 decreased its broadsheet width from 15 to 12inches while keeping the length at 22inches, to save newsprint costs. News design consultant Mario Garcia collaborated on the changes. Dow Jones said it would save US$18million a year in newsprint costs across all \"The Wall Street Journal\" papers. This move eliminated one column of print, pushing the \"A-hed\" out of its traditional location (though the paper now usually includes a quirky feature story on the right side of the front page, sandwiched among the lead stories).\n\nThe paper still uses ink dot drawings called hedcuts, introduced in 1979 and originally created by Kevin Sprouls, in addition to photographs, a method of illustration considered a consistent visual signature of the paper. The \"Journal\" still heavily employs the use of caricatures, notably those of Ken Fallin, such as when Peggy Noonan memorialized then-recently deceased newsman Tim Russert. The use of color photographs and graphics has become increasingly common in recent years with the addition of more \"lifestyle\" sections.\n\nThe daily was awarded by the Society for News Design World's Best Designed Newspaper award for 1994 and 1997.\n\nOn May 2, 2007, News Corporation made an unsolicited takeover bid for Dow Jones, offering US$60 a share for stock that had been selling for US$33 a share. The Bancroft family, which controlled more than 60% of the voting stock, at first rejected the offer, but later reconsidered its position.\n\nThree months later, on August 1, 2007, News Corporation and Dow Jones entered into a definitive merger agreement. The US$5billion sale added \"The Wall Street Journal\" to Rupert Murdoch's news empire, which already included Fox News Channel, financial network unit and London's \"The Times\", and locally within New York, the \"New York Post\", along with Fox flagship station WNYW (Channel 5) and MyNetworkTV flagship WWOR (Channel 9).\n\nOn December 13, 2007, shareholders representing more than 60 percent of Dow Jones's voting stock approved the company's acquisition by News Corporation.\n\nIn an editorial page column, publisher L. Gordon Crovitz said the Bancrofts and News Corporation had agreed that the \"Journal\"s news and opinion sections would preserve their editorial independence from their new corporate parent:\n\nA special committee was established to oversee the paper's editorial integrity. When the managing editor Marcus Brauchli resigned on April 22, 2008, the committee said that News Corporation had violated its agreement by not notifying the committee earlier. However, Brauchli said he believed that new owners should appoint their own editor.\n\nA 2007 \"Journal\" article quoted charges that Murdoch had made and broken similar promises in the past. One large shareholder commented that Murdoch has long \"expressed his personal, political and business biases through his newspapers and television stations\". Former \"Times\" assistant editor Fred Emery remembers an incident when \"Mr. Murdoch called him into his office in March 1982 and said he was considering firing Times editor Harold Evans. Mr. Emery says he reminded Mr. Murdoch of his promise that editors couldn't be fired without the independent directors' approval. 'God, you don't take all that seriously, do you?' Mr. Murdoch answered, according to Mr. Emery.\" Murdoch eventually forced out Evans.\n\nIn 2011, \"The Guardian\" found evidence that the \"Journal\" had artificially inflated its European sales numbers, by paying Executive Learning Partnership for purchasing 16% of European sales. These inflated sales numbers then enabled the \"Journal\" to charge similarly inflated advertising rates, as the advertisers would think that they reached more readers than they actually did. In addition, the \"Journal\" agreed to run \"articles\" featuring Executive Learning Partnership, presented as news, but effectively advertising. The case came to light after a Belgian \"Wall Street Journal\" employee, Gert Van Mol, informed Dow Jones CEO Les Hinton about the questionable practice. As a result, the then \"Wall Street Journal Europe\" CEO and Publisher Andrew Langhoff was fired after it was found out he personally pressured journalists into covering one of the newspaper's business partners involved in the issue. Since September 2011 all the online articles that resulted from the ethical wrongdoing carry a Wall Street Journal disclaimer informing the readers about the circumstances in which they were created.\n\nThe \"Journal\", along with its parent Dow Jones & Company, was among the businesses News Corporation spun off in 2013 as the new News Corp. In November 2016, in an effort to cut costs, the \"Journal\" editor-in-chief, Gerard Baker, announced that layoffs and consolidation to its sections would take place. In the memo, the new format for the newspaper will have a \"Business & Finance\" section that will combine its current \"Business & Tech\" and \"Money & Investing\" sections. It will also include a new \"Life & Arts\" section that will combine its current \"Personal Journal\" and \"Arena\" sections. In addition, the current \"Greater New York\" coverage will be reduced and will move into the main section of paper.\n\nSince 1980, the \"Journal\" has been published in multiple sections. At one time, The \"Journal\" page count averaged as much as 96 pages an issue, but with the industry-wide decline in advertising, the Journal in 2009–10 more typically published about 50 to 60 pages per issue. Regularly scheduled sections are:\n\nIn addition, several columnists contribute regular features to the \"Journal\" opinion page and OpinionJournal.com:\n\nIn addition to these regular opinion pieces, on Fridays the Journal publishes a religion-themed op-ed, titled \"Houses of Worship\",\nwritten by a different author each week. Authors range from the Dalai Lama to cardinals.\n\n\"WSJ.\" is \"The Wall Street Journal\"s luxury lifestyle magazine. Its coverage spans art, fashion, entertainment, design, food, architecture, travel and more. Kristina O'Neill is Editor in Chief and Anthony Cenname is Publisher.\n\nLaunched as a quarterly in 2008, the magazine grew to 12 issues a year for 2014. The magazine is distributed within the U.S. Weekend Edition of \"The Wall Street Journal\" newspaper (average paid print circulation is +2.2 million*), the European and Asian editions, and is available on WSJ.com. Each issue is also available throughout the month in \"The Wall Street Journal\" iPad app.\n\nPenélope Cruz, Carmelo Anthony, Woody Allen, Scarlett Johansson, Emilia Clarke, Daft Punk, and Gisele Bündchen have all been featured on the cover.\n\nIn 2012, the magazine launched its signature platform, The Innovator Awards. An extension of the November Innovators issue, the awards ceremony, held in New York City at Museum of Modern Art, honors visionaries across the fields of design, fashion, architecture, humanitarianism, art and technology. The 2013 winners were: Alice Waters (Humanitarianism); Daft Punk (Entertainment); David Adjaye (Architecture); Do Ho Su (Art); Nick D'Aloisio (Technology); Pat McGrath (Fashion); Thomas Woltz (Design).\n\nIn 2013, \"Adweek\" awarded \"WSJ.\" \"Hottest Lifestyle Magazine of the Year\" for its annual Hot List.\n\n\n, \"The Wall Street Journal\" had a global news staff of around 2,000 journalists in\n85 news bureaus across 51 countries. , it had 26 printing plants.\n\n\nThe \"Journal\" won its first two Pulitzer Prizes for editorial writing in 1947 and 1953. Subsequent Pulitzer Prizes have been awarded for editorial writing to Robert L. Bartley in 1980 and Joseph Rago in 2011; for criticism to Manuela Hoelterhoff in 1983 and Joe Morgenstern in 2005; and for commentary to Vermont Royster in 1984, Paul Gigot in 2000, Dorothy Rabinowitz in 2001, Bret Stephens in 2013, and Peggy Noonan in 2017.\n\nTwo summaries published in 1995 by the progressive blog Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting, and in 1996 by the \"Columbia Journalism Review\" criticized the \"Journal\" editorial page for inaccuracy during the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe Journal describes the history of its editorials:\nIts historical position was much the same. As former editor William H. Grimes wrote in 1951:\nEach Thanksgiving the editorial page prints two famous articles that have appeared there since 1961. The first is titled \"The Desolate Wilderness\", and describes what the Pilgrims saw when they arrived at the Plymouth Colony. The second is titled \"And the Fair Land\", and describes the bounty of America. It was written by a former editor, Vermont C. Royster, whose Christmas article \"In Hoc Anno Domini\" has appeared every December 25 since 1949.\n\nOn September 12, 2018, the Census Bureau released data showing improvement in household income and the poverty rate during 2017, Trump's first year in office. \"The Journal\" published an editorial that day attributing the improvement to Trump's purportedly superior economic policies, compared to Obama's. However, \"The Journal\"'s news division reported that both figures also showed improvement in 2015 and 2016, and they improved to a greater degree in both those years than they did in 2017.\n\nDuring the Reagan administration, the newspaper's editorial page was particularly influential as the leading voice for supply-side economics. Under the editorship of Robert Bartley, it expounded at length on economic concepts such as the Laffer curve, and how a decrease in certain marginal tax rates and the capital gains tax could allegedly increase overall tax revenue by generating more economic activity.\n\nIn the economic argument of exchange rate regimes (one of the most divisive issues among economists), the \"Journal\" has a tendency to support fixed exchange rates over floating exchange rates. For example, the \"Journal\" was a major supporter of the Chinese yuan's peg to the dollar, and strongly disagreed with American politicians who criticized the Chinese government about the peg. It opposed China's move to let the yuan gradually float, arguing that the fixed rate benefited both the United States and China.\n\nThe \"Journal\" views compare with those of the British publication \"The Economist\", with its emphasis on free markets. However, the \"Journal\" demonstrates important distinctions from European business newspapers, most particularly in regard to the relative significance of, and causes of, the American budget deficit. (The \"Journal\" generally points to the lack of foreign growth, while business journals in Europe and Asia blame the low savings rate and concordant high borrowing rate in the United States).\n\nThe \"Journal\" editorial pages and columns, run separately from the news pages, are highly influential in American conservative circles. As editors of the editorial page, Vermont C. Royster (served 1958–1971) and Robert L. Bartley (served 1972–2000) were especially influential in providing a conservative interpretation of the news on a daily basis. Some of the \"Journal\" former reporters claim that the paper has adopted a more conservative tone since Rupert Murdoch's purchase.\n\nThe editorial board has long argued for a pro-business immigration policy. In a July 3, 1984, editorial, the board wrote: \"If Washington still wants to 'do something' about immigration, we propose a five-word constitutional amendment: There shall be open borders.\" This stand on immigration reform places the \"Journal\" in contrast to most conservative activists, politicians, and media publications for example \"National Review\" and \"The Washington Times\", who favor heightened restrictions on immigration.\n\nThe \"Journal\" editorial page has been seen as critical of many aspects of Barack Obama's presidency. In particular, it has been a prominent critic of the Affordable Care Act legislation passed in 2010, and has featured many opinion columns attacking various aspects of the bill. The \"Journal\" editorial page has also criticized the Obama administration's energy policies and foreign policy.\n\nThe editorial board of \"The Wall Street Journal\" tends to reject widely held views on climate change—namely that it poses a major threat to human existence, is largely caused by fossil fuel emissions, and can be prevented through public policy. \"The Journal\" is regarded as a forum for climate change skeptics, publishing articles by scientists skeptical of the consensus position on climate change in its op-ed section, including several essays by Richard Lindzen of MIT. Similarly, the \"Journal\" has been accused of refusing to publish opinions of scientists which present the mainstream view on climate change. According to a 2016 analysis, 14% of the guest editorials presented the results of \"mainstream climate science\", while the majority did not. Also, none of 201 editorials published in the WSJ since 1997 concede that the burning of fossil fuels was causing climate change. A 2015 study found \"The Wall Street Journal\" was the newspaper that was least likely to present negative effects of global warming among several newspapers. It was also the most likely to present negative economic framing when discussing climate change mitigation policies, tending to taking the stance that the cost of such policies generally outweighs their benefit.\n\nOn October 25, 2017, the editorial board called for Special Counsel Robert Mueller to resign from the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections and accused Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential campaign of colluding with Russia. In December 2017, the editorial board repeated its calls for Mueller's resignation. The editorials by the editorial board caused fractures within the \"Wall Street Journal\", as reporters say that the editorials undermine the paper's credibility. \n\nThe \"Journal\"s editors stress the independence and impartiality of their reporters.\n\nIn a 2004 study, Tim Groseclose and Jeff Milyo argue the \"Journal\" news pages have a pro-liberal bias because they more often quote liberal think tanks. They calculated the ideological attitude of news reports in 20 media outlets by counting the frequency they cited particular think tanks and comparing that to the frequency that legislators cited the same think tanks. They found that the news reporting of \"The Journal\" was the most liberal (more liberal than NPR or \"The New York Times\"). The study did not factor in editorials. Mark Liberman criticized the model used to calculate bias in the study and argued that the model unequally affected liberals and conservatives and that \"..the model starts with a very peculiar assumption about the relationship between political opinion and the choice of authorities to cite.\" [The authors assume that] \"think tank ideology [...] only matters to liberals.\"\n\nThe company's planned and eventual acquisition by News Corp in 2007 led to significant media criticism and discussion about whether the news pages would exhibit a rightward slant under Rupert Murdoch. An August 1 editorial responded to the questions by asserting that Murdoch intended to \"maintain the values and integrity of the \"Journal\".\"\n\nThe \"Journal\" has won more than 30 Pulitzer Prizes in its history. Staff journalists who led some of the newspaper's best-known coverage teams have later published books that summarized and extended their reporting.\n\nIn 1987, a bidding war ensued between several financial firms for tobacco and food giant RJR Nabisco. Bryan Burrough and John Helyar documented the events in more than two dozen \"Journal\" articles. Burrough and Helyar later used these articles as the basis of a bestselling book, \"\", which was turned into a film for HBO.\n\nIn the 1980s, then \"Journal\" reporter James B. Stewart brought national attention to the illegal practice of insider trading. He was awarded the Pulitzer Prize in explanatory journalism in 1988, which he shared with Daniel Hertzberg, who went on to serve as the paper's senior deputy managing editor before resigning in 2009. Stewart expanded on this theme in his book, \"Den of Thieves\".\n\nDavid Sanford, a Page One features editor who was infected with HIV in 1982 in a bathhouse, wrote a front-page personal account of how, with the assistance of improved treatments for HIV, he went from planning his death to planning his retirement. He and six other reporters wrote about the new treatments, political and economic issues, and won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting about AIDS.\n\nJonathan Weil, a reporter at the Dallas bureau of \"The Wall Street Journal\", is credited with first breaking the story of financial abuses at Enron in September 2000. Rebecca Smith and John R. Emshwiller reported on the story regularly, and wrote a book, \"24 Days\".\n\nThe \"Journal\" claims to have sent the first news report, on the Dow Jones wire, of a plane crashing into the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001. Its headquarters, at One World Financial Center, was severely damaged by the collapse of the World Trade Center just across the street. Top editors worried that they might miss publishing the first issue for the first time in the paper's 112-year history. They relocated to a makeshift office at an editor's home, while sending most of the staff to Dow Jones's South Brunswick, N.J., corporate campus, where the paper had established emergency editorial facilities soon after the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. The paper was on the stands the next day, albeit in scaled-down form. Perhaps the most compelling story in that day's edition was a first-hand account of the Twin Towers' collapse written by then-Foreign Editor (and current Washington bureau chief) John Bussey, who holed up in a ninth-floor Journal office, literally in the shadow of the towers, from where he phoned in live reports to CNBC as the towers burned. He narrowly escaped serious injury when the first tower collapsed, shattering all the windows in the \"Journal\" offices and filling them with dust and debris. The \"Journal\" won a 2002 Pulitzer Prize in Breaking News Reporting for that day's stories.\n\nThe \"Journal\" subsequently conducted a worldwide investigation of the causes and significance of 9/11, using contacts it had developed while covering business in the Arab world. In Kabul, Afghanistan, a reporter from \"The Wall Street Journal\" bought a pair of looted computers that Al Qaeda leaders had used to plan assassinations, chemical and biological attacks, and mundane daily activities. The encrypted files were decrypted and translated. It was during this coverage that terrorists kidnapped and killed \"Journal\" reporter Daniel Pearl.\n\nIn 2007, the paper won the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, with its iconic Gold Medal, for exposing companies that illegally backdate stock options they awarded executives to increase their value.\n\nKate Kelly wrote a three-part series that detailed events that led to the collapse of Bear Stearns.\n\nA report published on September 30, 2010, detailing allegations McDonald's had plans to drop health coverage for hourly employees drew criticism from McDonald's as well as the Obama administration. The Wall Street Journal reported the plan to drop coverage stemmed from new health care requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. McDonald's called the report \"speculative and misleading\", stating they had no plans to drop coverage. The Wall Street Journal report and subsequent rebuttal received coverage from several other media outlets.\n\nIn 2015, a report published by the \"Journal\" alleged that up to US$700 million was wired from 1MDB, a Malaysian state investment company, to the personal accounts of Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak at AmBank, the fifth largest lender in Malaysia. Razak responded by threatening to sue the New York-based newspaper.\n\nThe report prompted some governmental agencies in Malaysia to conduct an investigation into the allegation.\n\nIn 2015, a report written by the \"Journal\" John Carreyrou alleged that blood testing company Theranos' technology was faulty and founder Elizabeth Holmes was misleading investors. According to \"Vanity Fair\", \"a damning report published in \"The Wall Street Journal\" had alleged that the company was, in effect, a sham—that its vaunted core technology was actually faulty and that Theranos administered almost all of its blood tests using competitors' equipment.\" The \"Journal\" has subsequently published several more reports questioning Theranos' and Holmes' credibility. On June 15, 2018, the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California announced the indictment of Holmes on wire fraud and conspiracy charges in relation to her role as CEO of Theranos.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54305409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54305409", "title": "Wan Long (businessman)", "text": "Wan Long (businessman)\n\nWan Long (born 1940/41) is a Chinese billionaire businessman, the chairman and CEO of WH Group, the world's largest pork company, with subsidiaries including Smithfield Foods in the US.\n\nWan Long was born in China.\n\nIn 1968 Wan Long started work for Luohe Meat Products Processing United Factory, and became the factory's general manager in 1984.\n\nWan Long is the chairman of WH Group, the world's largest pork company, with subsidiaries including Smithfield Foods in the US. Wan Long has been chairman since November 2010, and CEO since October 2013.\n\nWan Long lives in Luohe, China.\n"}
{"id": "44849689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44849689", "title": "Warren Brown (sailor)", "text": "Warren Brown (sailor)\n\nWarren Brown (1929 – 25 December 2014) was a Bermudian sailor and businessman. He took part in the Newport-Bermuda Race 20 times in 11 different boats, including four of his own. He was also a co-founder of the Island Press, which produced the now defunct \"Bermuda Sun\" newspaper.\n\nBrown, at three months old, was among those who survived a shipwreck on 18 December 1929, when the RMS \"Fort Victoria\" was rammed by the SS \"Algonquin\" while anchored in dense fog. All aboard the \"Fort Victoria\" were rescued before she sank.\n"}
{"id": "26154240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26154240", "title": "William Pinckney Mason", "text": "William Pinckney Mason\n\nWilliam Pinckney Mason (10 January 1843 – 16 December 1922) was a Lieutenant in the Confederate States Navy, ultimately serving as commander of several ironclad gunboats. Mason was a great-grandson of George Mason, author of the Virginia Bill of Rights, and his wife Ann Eilbeck.\n\nMason was born on 10 January 1843, in Alexandria and was the youngest child of a large family born to Dr. Richard Chichester Mason and his wife Lucy Bolling Randolph.\n\nMason resigned from the United States Navy as an acting midshipman on 19 April 1861. Mason enlisted in the Confederate States Navy where he became an acting midshipman on 11 June 1861 and served on the CSS \"United States\". On 7 January 1864, Mason was promoted to master in line of promotion and was made 2nd Lieutenant on 2 June 1864. Mason later served as commander of the CSS \"Beaufort\" and CSS \"Virginia II\".\n\nMason married Elizabeth Ruthven McGill on 29 January 1873 and they had three children:\n\n\nAfter a brief illness, Mason died on 16 December 1922 at his residence in Rockville, Maryland at the age of 80. He was buried after 16 December 1923 at Rockville Union Cemetery.\n"}
