{"id": "42729975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42729975", "title": "Ahmed Harara", "text": "Ahmed Harara\n\nAhmed Harara (Egyptian Arabic: \"أحمد محمد علي \"حرارة, born February 12, 1980) is an Egyptian political activist who was blinded in both eyes in separate protesting incidents during the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. The nickname 'Harara' means heat and Ahmed was given the name due to always being on the first lines and really always being loud and so always encouraged others\n\nThe former dentist became a symbol of the 25 January Revolution in which protestors called for the removal of President Hosni Mubarak. Harara did not attend the protests until he realized that the protests were about changing the entire regime, not just a minister.\n\nHarara sustained injuries that left him blind.\n\nOn January 28, 2011, known as the Friday of Rage, protesters clashed with police on the Qasr El Nile Bridge. Harara described how he felt it was the first day all of Egypt showed up. Harara was shot in the face with a shotgun and after three days in a coma woke up in the hospital. Doctors removed the tiny pelts which caused 64 lacerations to his face, 6 were taken from his neck, and 4 had injured his lungs.\n\nOn November 19, 2011 Harara was shot a second time while demonstrating on Mohamed Mahmoud St. near Tahrir Square, but this shotgun was loaded with one large pellet, which hit him directly in the eye.\n\nHarara plans to undergo transplant surgery in Germany, and if that is unsuccessful, he will learn braille so he can find work.\n\nHarara was named Time Magazine's Person of the Year in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "23844757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23844757", "title": "Alberto Martinez Piedra", "text": "Alberto Martinez Piedra\n\nAlberto Martinez Piedra (born January 29, 1926) is the David E. Bentley Professor of Political Economy at The Institute of World Politics.\n\nDr. Piedra was the Director of the Latin American Institute at The Catholic University of America from 1965-1982. He was the United States Ambassador to Guatemala (1984–1987).\n\nPiedra has three doctorates - Doctor in Law, 1951, University of Havana; University of Madrid (1957), and Georgetown University (1962). He was Director General of Exports and Imports of the Cuban Ministry of Commerce in 1959; and Technical Assistant of the Department of Economic Development of the Cuban National Council from 1958-1959. He was a Staff Economist at the OAS from 1960-1962.\n"}
{"id": "42897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42897", "title": "Alexander Dubček", "text": "Alexander Dubček\n\nAlexander Dubček (; 27 November 1921 – 7 November 1992) was a Slovak politician who served as the First secretary of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSČ) (de facto leader of Czechoslovakia) from January 1968 to April 1969. He attempted to reform the communist government during the Prague Spring but was forced to resign following the Warsaw Pact invasion in August of 1968.\n\nDuring his leadership, under the slogan of \"Socialism with a human face\", Czechoslovakia lifted censorship on the media and liberalized Czechoslovak society, fuelling the so-called New Wave in Czechoslovak filmography. However, he was put under pressure by Stalinist voices inside the party as well as the Soviet leadership, who disliked the direction the country was taking and feared that Czechoslovakia could loosen ties with the Soviet Union and become more westernized. As a result, the country was invaded by the other Warsaw Pact countries on 20–21 August 1968, effectively ending the process known as the Prague Spring. Dubček resigned in April 1969 and was succeeded by Gustav Husák, who initiated \"normalization\". Dubček was then expelled from the Communist Party in 1970.\n\nLater, after the overthrow of the communist regime in 1989, he was Chairman of the federal Czechoslovak parliament. Also in 1989, the European Parliament awarded Dubček the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought.\n\nAlexander Dubček was born in Czechoslovakia on 27 November 1921. When he was three, the family moved to the Soviet Union, in part to help build socialism and in part because jobs were scarce in Czechoslovakia; so that he was raised until 12 in the Kirghiz SSR of the Soviet Union (now Kyrgyzstan) as a member of the Esperantist and Idist industrial cooperative Interhelpo. In 1933, the family moved to Gorky, now Nizhny Novgorod, and in 1938 returned to Czechoslovakia.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Alexander Dubček joined the underground resistance against the wartime pro-German Slovak state headed by Jozef Tiso. In August 1944, Dubček fought in the Jan Žižka partisan brigade during the Slovak National Uprising and was wounded twice, while his brother, Július, was killed.\n\nDuring the war, Alexander Dubček joined the Communist Party of Slovakia (KSS), which had been created after the formation of the Slovak state and in 1948 was transformed into the Slovak branch of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSČ).\n\nAfter the war, he steadily rose through the ranks in Communist Czechoslovakia. From 1951 to 1955 he was a member of the National Assembly, the parliament of Czechoslovakia. In 1953, he was sent to the Moscow Political College, where he graduated in 1958. In 1955 he joined the Central Committee of the Slovak branch and in 1962 became a member of the presidium. In 1958 he also joined the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, which he served as a secretary from 1960 to 1962 and as a member of the presidium after 1962. From 1960 to 1968 he once more was a member of the federal parliament.\n\nIn 1963, a power struggle in the leadership of the Slovak branch unseated Karol Bacílek and Pavol David, hard-line allies of Antonín Novotný, First Secretary of the KSČ and President of Czechoslovakia. In their place, a new generation of Slovak Communists took control of party and state organs in Slovakia, led by Alexander Dubček, who became First Secretary of the Slovak branch of the party.\n\nUnder Dubček's leadership, Slovakia began to evolve toward political liberalization. Because Novotný and his Stalinist predecessors had denigrated Slovak \"bourgeois nationalists\", most notably Gustáv Husák and Vladimír Clementis, in the 1950s, the Slovak branch worked to promote Slovak identity. This mainly took the form of celebrations and commemorations, such as the 150th birthdays of 19th century leaders of the Slovak National Revival Ľudovít Štúr and Jozef Miloslav Hurban, the centenary of the Matica slovenská in 1963, and the twentieth anniversary of the Slovak National Uprising. At the same time, the political and intellectual climate in Slovakia became freer than that in the Czech Lands. This was exemplified by the rising readership of \"Kultúrny život\", the weekly newspaper of the Union of Slovak Writers, which published frank discussions of liberalization, federalization and democratization, written by the most progressive or controversial writers – both Slovak and Czech. \"Kultúrny život\" consequently became the first Slovak publication to gain a wide following among Czechs.\n\n The Czechoslovak planned economy in the 1960s was in serious decline and the imposition of central control from Prague disappointed local Communists, while the destalinization program caused further disquiet. In October 1967, a number of reformers, most notably Ota Šik and Alexander Dubček, took action: they challenged First Secretary Antonín Novotný at a Central Committee meeting. Novotný faced a mutiny in the Central Committee, so he secretly invited Leonid Brezhnev, the Soviet leader, to make a whirlwind visit to Prague in December 1967 in order to shore up his own position. When Brezhnev arrived in Prague and met with the Central Committee members, he was stunned to learn of the extent of the opposition to Novotný, leading Brezhnev to opt for non-interference, and paving the way for the Central Committee to force Novotný's resignation. Dubček, with his background and training in Russia, was seen by the USSR as a safe pair of hands. “Our Sasha” became the new First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia on 5 January 1968.\n\nThe period following Novotný's downfall became known as the Prague Spring. During this time, Dubček and other reformers sought to liberalize the Communist government—creating \"socialism with a human face\". Though this loosened the party's influence on the country, Dubček remained a devoted Communist and intended to preserve the party's rule. However, during the Prague Spring, he and other reform-minded Communists sought to win popular support for the Communist government by eliminating its worst, most repressive features, allowing greater freedom of expression and tolerating political and social organizations not under Communist control. \"Dubček! Svoboda!\" became the popular refrain of student demonstrations during this period, while a poll gave him 78% public support. Yet Dubček found himself in an increasingly untenable position. The program of reform gained momentum, leading to pressures for further liberalization and democratization. At the same time, hard-line Communists in Czechoslovakia and the leaders of other Warsaw Pact countries pressured Dubček to rein in the Prague Spring. Though Dubček wanted to oversee the reform movement, he refused to resort to any draconian measures to do so, while still stressing the leading role of the Party and the centrality of the Warsaw Pact.\n\nThe Soviet leadership tried to slow down or stop the changes in Czechoslovakia through a series of negotiations. The Soviet Union agreed to bilateral talks with Czechoslovakia in July at Čierna nad Tisou, near the Slovak-Soviet border. At the meeting, Dubček tried to reassure the Soviets and the Warsaw Pact leaders that he was still friendly to Moscow, arguing that the reforms were an internal matter. He thought he had learned an important lesson from the failing of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, in which the leaders had gone as far as withdrawing from the Warsaw Pact. Dubček believed that the Kremlin would allow him a free hand in pursuing domestic reform as long as Czechoslovakia remained a faithful member of the Soviet bloc. Despite Dubček's continuing efforts to stress these commitments, Brezhnev and other Warsaw Pact leaders remained wary, seeing a free press as threatening an end to one-party rule in Czechoslovakia, and (by extension) elsewhere in Eastern Europe.\n\nOn the night of 20–21 August 1968, Warsaw Pact forces except Romania entered Czechoslovakia. The occupying armies quickly seized control of Prague and the Central Committee's building, taking Dubček and other reformers into Soviet custody. But, before they were arrested, Dubček urged the people not to resist militarily, on the grounds that “presenting a military defence would have meant exposing the Czech and Slovak peoples to a senseless bloodbath”. Later in the day, Dubček and the others were taken to Moscow on a Soviet military transport aircraft (reportedly one used in the invasion).\n\nThe inspired non-violent resistance of the Czech and Slovak population, which delayed full loss of control to the Warsaw Pact forces for a full eight months (in contrast to the Soviet military's estimate of four days), became a prime example of civilian-based defense. A latter-day Good Soldier Schweik wrote mockingly of “the comradely pranks of changing street names and road signs, of pretending not to understand Russian, and of putting out a great variety of humorous welcoming posters” Meanwhile, radio stations called for the invaders to return home: “Long live freedom, Svoboda, Dubcek”. Nevertheless, the reformers were forced to accede to Soviet demands, signing the Moscow protocols, (with only František Kriegel refusing to sign): the tanks had crushed Dubcek's Prague Spring.\n\nDubček and most of the reformers were returned to Prague on 27 August, and Dubček retained his post as the party's first secretary until April 1969; and indeed, the achievements of the Prague Spring were not reversed overnight, but over a period of several months.\n\nIn January 1969, Dubček was hospitalized in Bratislava complaining of a cold and had to cancel a speech. Rumours sprang up that his illness was radiation sickness and that it was caused by radioactive strontium being placed in his soup during his stay in Moscow in an attempt to kill him. However, a U.S. intelligence report discounted this for lack of evidence.\n\nDubček was forced to resign as First Secretary in April 1969, following the Czechoslovak Hockey Riots. He was re-elected to the Federal Assembly (as the federal parliament was now called) and became its chairman. He was later sent as ambassador to Turkey (1969–70), allegedly in the hope that he would defect to the West, which however did not occur. In 1970, he was expelled from the Communist party and lost his seats in the Slovak parliament (which he had held continuously since 1964) and the Federal Assembly.\n\nAfter his expulsion from the party, Dubček worked in the Forestry Service in Slovakia. He remained a popular figure among the Slovaks and Czechs he encountered on the job, using this reverence to procure scarce and hard-to-find materials for his workplace. Dubček and his wife, Anna, continued to live in a comfortable villa in a nice neighbourhood in Bratislava. In 1988, Dubček was allowed to travel to Italy to accept an honorary doctorate from Bologna University, and, while there, he gave an interview with Italian newspaper \"L'Unità\", his first public remarks to the press since 1970. Dubček's appearance and interview helped to return him to international prominence.\n\nIn 1989, he was awarded the annual Sakharov Prize in its second year of existence.\n\nDuring the Velvet Revolution of 1989, he supported the Public against Violence (VPN) and the Civic Forum. On the night of 24 November, Dubček appeared with Václav Havel on a balcony overlooking Wenceslas Square, where he was greeted with tremendous applause from the throngs of protesters below and embraced as a symbol of democratic freedom. Several onlookers even chanted, \"Dubček na hrad!\" (\"Dubček to the Castle\"—i. e., Dubček for President). He disappointed the crowd somewhat by calling the revolution a chance to continue the work he had started 20 years earlier, and prune out what was wrong with Communism. By that time, the demonstrators in Prague wanted nothing to do with Communism of any sort, even Dubček's \"Socialism with a human face\". Later that night, Dubček was on stage with Havel at the Laterna Magika theatre, the headquarters of Civic Forum, when the entire leadership of the Communist Party resigned, in effect ending Communist rule in Czechoslovakia.\n\nDubček was elected Chairman of the Federal Assembly (the Czechoslovak Parliament) on 28 December 1989, and re-elected in 1990 and 1992.\n\nAt the time of the overthrow of Communist party rule, Dubček described the Velvet Revolution as a victory for his \"humanistic socialist outlook\". In 1990, he received the International Humanist Award from the International Humanist and Ethical Union. He also gave the commencement address to the graduates of the Class of 1990 at The American University in Washington, D.C.; it was his first trip to the United States.\n\nIn 1992, he became leader of the Social Democratic Party of Slovakia and represented that party in the Federal Assembly. At that time, Dubček passively supported the union between Czechs and Slovaks in a single Czecho-Slovak federation against the (ultimately successful) push towards an independent Slovak state.\n\nDubček died on 7 November 1992, as a result of injuries sustained in a car crash that took place on 1 September on the Czech D1 highway, near Humpolec. He was buried in Slávičie údolie cemetery in Bratislava, Slovakia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47602268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47602268", "title": "Anwarmiya Kaji", "text": "Anwarmiya Kaji\n\nAnwarmiya Ajamiya Kaji was a poet from Gujarat, India.\nAnwarmiya was born in 1843 in Visnagar to Ajamiya Anumiya. His family had roots in Arabia who moved to Patan and served as Kaji. They were granted Visnagar for activity so they settled there. Anwarmiya had interest in spirituality since his childhood. At the age of 12, he served Premmast Saiyyd Saheb when he visited Visnagar and had deep influence of him. Initially resided at lonely places but later moved to old mosque in Kajiwada on insistence of his relatives and followers. He visited Mecca and Madina in 1881. He contacted illness and moved to Palanpur where he died on 22 October 1916. A mausoleum was built over his resting place and the Urs is organised there every year.\n\nHe had knowledge of six schools of Hindu philosophy and Yoga. His poetry \"Anwarkavya\" has several spiritual poems about Bhakti. He composed in Gujarati and Urdu. His poetry defines Bhakti in form of Sufism.\n"}
{"id": "42540170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42540170", "title": "Brigid Lyons Thornton", "text": "Brigid Lyons Thornton\n\nBrigid Lyons Thornton (1896 – 15 November 1987) was a member of Cumann na mBan, an officer in the Irish Free State Army and a physician. Thornton was a rebellious character whom from a young age was involved in a Nationalist movement. Her first small involvement was selling badges and flags at the O'Donovan Rossa funeral.\n\nBrigid Lyons Thornton was born in Northyard Scramogue, County Roscommon in 1896. She was the daughter of farmer and Fenian Patrick Lyons.\nAt a young age, Brigid moved to Longford to live with her uncle Frank McGuinness and his wife Kate, who paid for her secondary school education. McGuinness is credited for Thornton's keen interest in politics and Irish history. In November 1934 Frank McGuinness died, having been a senator for five years and a renowned figure for his involvement in Irish history. Brigid Lyons Thornton was a medical student and a member of Cumman na mBan who was involved with the Irish Volunteers during 1916. She was arrested during the Easter Rising and interned in Kilmainham Gaol along with other members of the Irish Volunteers.\n\nShe graduated from medical school, Galway in 1922 being the youngest medical student there. She became the only commissioned female officer ever in the new Irish Free State Army. She and Edward Thornton met when Brigid became ill with tuberculosis and was sent to Switzerland with other officers who had a similar condition. During this time Thornton learned how to treat Tuberculosis while she was a patient. This would be a significant advantage in later years. She took her diploma in public health in 1927 and then entered the public health service. She began in the public health service, County Kildare, later moving to County Cork until she finally ended up in Dublin where she worked until retirement. Brigid Thornton helped to treat many infectious diseases.\n\nThornton married captain Edward Thornton on 10 October 1925, in Dublin, at the Chapel of St Kevin in the Pro Cathedral. The ceremony was a quiet reunion of family and friends. Her husband returned to Switzerland to heal from TB and was later released and cured. He became a lawyer. Thornton attended the National University in 1947 and finished a postgraduate degree in Public Health. Thornton was very passionate about her work in the public health system in Ireland, she resided permanently on home ground; meanwhile her husband resided in Switzerland for most of the winter months, he worked as a lawyer and their relationship was maintained through letter writing and yearly visits form Captain Thornton to Ireland. They are buried alongside each other in Toomore Cemetery.\n\nBrigid returns to Longford when she hears the news of The 1916 Easter Rising. Her uncle Joe McGuinness was serving in the Four Courts along with Patrick Pearse, James Connolly and Michael Collins. Brigid decides to join with Uncle Frank and the volunteers he had gathered in Dublin for the week. Their car was believed to be rejected to enter the Four Courts and by some means the crew was able to pass the barricade, and Brigid along with Cumann na mBan provided food and took care of the wounded rebels. She acted as a nurse to the First Battalion of volunteers who had taken possession of the Four Courts and adjoining streets.\nAfter the surrender, she was put in jail in Kilmainham with her comrades and during the imprisonment she heard that 14 of her idols were shot. After her release from the jail, she returned to continue studying medicine in Galway.\n\nThe involvement of Thornton in female activist activities in the late ninetieth century was a feat in itself as politics, religion and education were a conservative male dominated preserve. Patriotism found her involved in Sinn Féin and Cumann na mBan. Women were limited by their male counterparts in the scope of their revolutionary activities. In spite of this Thornton contributed as a rebel, soldier and commissioned medical officer. In 1917 she set up a group of Cumann na mBan in Galway. Despite her revolutionary activities as a dispatch carrier and involvement in the Easter Rising in 1916, which subsequently saw her imprisonment, Thornton qualified in 1922 at the rank of First Officer. Later she was commissioned by Michael Collins to become the first and only woman to be accepted as a female officer in the Free State Army. She was part of the medical services that formed the corps, when it was time to establish a permanent, new all Irish Medical Service in 1922.\n\nThornton dedicated her life to both revolutionary activities and the medical sector; she was a practitioner, lecturer and researcher. Her involvement as a doctor was not only hospital work, but also as a volunteer. She was an avid educator of women on the importance of hygiene in the development of children and factors of disease that flourished in the impoverished slums of the inner city and surrounding suburbs. This work was marginalised by the lack of funds for a public health service to help ordinary people. Clean water was a commodity at this time and a strain of gastroenteritis was the cause of death of many babies. In her youth Thronton had expressed the passion to be become a teacher but as women's role in society changed, society's constraints became less stringent, she could study medicine and pursue greater participation in this area. This devotion and patriotism to her country established her name in history. This involvement matched her commitment to revolution.\n\nLyons acquired a county scholarship to study an undergraduate degree in Medicine in University College Galway in 1917, where she graduated in 1922. She also received a Postgraduate Diploma in public health from The National University of Ireland in 1927, known as University College Dublin (UCD). In the 1950s when vaccines were developed and distributed to the general public, Thornton helped combat the Tuberculosis epidemic in Ireland and became involved in the pioneering of the BGG vaccination as she herself had been plagued by the illness alongside her husband Edward. A team of fifteen members were dispersed throughout Ireland setting out to accomplish what would become a massive feat in medical history. She dedicated her life to working in the public sector; in a number of areas including the Kildare and Cork Boards of Health as a medical officer, and she was assistant medical officer for the Dublin Health Authority. Her other work titles included medical inspector at the Carnegie Centre in Dublin.\n\nDuring her life, Thornton as in her youth was a passionate contributed to the welfare of the people. She was a librarian in the Rotunda Hospital, where she was an advisor to the new doctors and was always up to date on new medical practices which were necessary in an age of medical discovery. Thornton was heavily involved in the Medical Benevolent Fund. Thornton's retirement days were spent as a researcher in Trinity College Dublin.\n\nThronton lived a long life, surviving her husband Captain Edward Thornton who died in 1946, the couple had no children. She had suffered ill health in her late seventies and retired, nevertheless she continued to work as a volunteer in The Rotunda Maternity Hospital. Lyons died of cardiac-respiratory arrest, as stated on her death certificate, on 15 November 1987 at the age of 91.\n\nThornton was buried on the 71st anniversary of the Easter Rising in Toomore Cemetery, Foxford, County Mayo. Members of the Western Command rendered her military honours at her burial and her coffin was draped in the tricolour.\n\n"}
{"id": "41823622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41823622", "title": "Carmen Lamas", "text": "Carmen Lamas\n\nCarmen Lamas (1900 in Spain – 1990 in Buenos Aires) was a Spanish-born tango singer, and the first Spanish actress who made her career in Argentina. Lamas debuted in 1921 in a cast headed by his father, Miguel Lamas, Spanish actor and director. She was one of the first important figures of the Teatro Maipo, a vedette in the group known at that time as \"Primera triple\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6548", "title": "Claude Monet", "text": "Claude Monet\n\nOscar-Claude Monet (; ; 14 November 1840 – 5 December 1926) was a French painter, a founder of French Impressionist painting and the most consistent and prolific practitioner of the movement's philosophy of expressing one's perceptions before nature, especially as applied to plein air landscape painting. The term \"Impressionism\" is derived from the title of his painting \"Impression, soleil levant\" (\"Impression, Sunrise\"), which was exhibited in 1874 in the first of the independent exhibitions mounted by Monet and his associates as an alternative to the Salon de Paris.\n\nMonet's ambition of documenting the French countryside led him to adopt a method of painting the same scene many times in order to capture the changing of light and the passing of the seasons. From 1883, Monet lived in Giverny, where he purchased a house and property and began a vast landscaping project which included lily ponds that would become the subjects of his best-known works. In 1899, he began painting the water lilies, first in vertical views with a Japanese bridge as a central feature and later in the series of large-scale paintings that was to occupy him continuously for the next 20 years of his life.\n\nClaude Monet was born on 14 November 1840 on the fifth floor of 45 rue Laffitte, in the 9th arrondissement of Paris. He was the second son of Claude Adolphe Monet and Louise Justine Aubrée Monet, both of them second-generation Parisians. On 20 May 1841, he was baptized in the local parish church, Notre-Dame-de-Lorette, as Oscar-Claude, but his parents called him simply Oscar. (He signed his juvenilia \"O. Monet\".) Despite being baptized Catholic, Monet later became an atheist.\n\nIn 1845, his family moved to Le Havre in Normandy. His father wanted him to go into the family's ship-chandling and grocery business, but Monet wanted to become an artist. His mother was a singer, and supported Monet's desire for a career in art.\n\nOn 1 April 1851, Monet entered Le Havre secondary school of the arts. Locals knew him well for his charcoal caricatures, which he would sell for ten to twenty francs. Monet also undertook his first drawing lessons from Jacques-François Ochard, a former student of Jacques-Louis David. On the beaches of Normandy around 1856 he met fellow artist Eugène Boudin, who became his mentor and taught him to use oil paints. Boudin taught Monet \"en plein air\" (outdoor) techniques for painting. Both received the influence of Johan Barthold Jongkind.\n\nOn 28 January 1857, his mother died. At the age of sixteen, he left school and went to live with his widowed, childless aunt, Marie-Jeanne Lecadre.\nWhen Monet traveled to Paris to visit the Louvre, he witnessed painters copying from the old masters. Having brought his paints and other tools with him, he would instead go and sit by a window and paint what he saw. Monet was in Paris for several years and met other young painters, including Édouard Manet and others who would become friends and fellow Impressionists.\n\nAfter drawing a low ballot number in March 1861, Monet was drafted into the First Regiment of African Light Cavalry (\"Chasseurs d'Afrique\") in Algeria for a seven-year period of military service. His prosperous father could have purchased Monet's exemption from conscription but declined to do so when his son refused to give up painting. While in Algeria Monet did only a few sketches of casbah scenes, a single landscape, and several portraits of officers, all of which have been lost. In a \"Le Temps\" interview of 1900 however he commented that the light and vivid colours of North Africa \"contained the germ of my future researches\". After about a year of garrison duty in Algiers, Monet contracted typhoid fever and briefly went absent without leave. Following convalescence, Monet's aunt intervened to remove him from the army if he agreed to complete a course at an art school. It is possible that the Dutch painter Johan Barthold Jongkind, whom Monet knew, may have prompted his aunt on this matter.\n\nDisillusioned with the traditional art taught at art schools, in 1862 Monet became a student of Charles Gleyre in Paris, where he met Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Frédéric Bazille and Alfred Sisley. Together they shared new approaches to art, painting the effects of light \"en plein air\" with broken colour and rapid brushstrokes, in what later came to be known as Impressionism.\n\nIn January 1865 Monet was working on a version of \"Le déjeuner sur l'herbe\", aiming to present it for hanging at the Salon, which had rejected Manet's \"Le déjeuner sur l'herbe\" two years earlier. Monet's painting was very large and could not be completed in time. (It was later cut up, with parts now in different galleries.) Monet submitted instead a painting of \"Camille\" or \"The Woman in the Green Dress\" (\"La femme à la robe verte\"), one of many works using his future wife, Camille Doncieux, as his model. Both this painting and a small landscape were hung. The following year Monet used Camille for his model in \"Women in the Garden\", and \"On the Bank of the Seine, Bennecourt\" in 1868. Camille became pregnant and gave birth to their first child, Jean, in 1867. Monet and Camille married on 28 June 1870, just before the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War, and, after their excursion to London and Zaandam, they moved to Argenteuil, in December 1871. During this time Monet painted various works of modern life. He and Camille lived in poverty for most of this period. Following the successful exhibition of some maritime paintings, and the winning of a silver medal at Le Havre, Monet's paintings were seized by creditors, from whom they were bought back by a shipping merchant, Gaudibert, who was also a patron of Boudin.\n\nFrom the late 1860s, Monet and other like-minded artists met with rejection from the conservative Académie des Beaux-Arts, which held its annual exhibition at the Salon de Paris. During the latter part of 1873, Monet, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Camille Pissarro, and Alfred Sisley organized the (Anonymous Society of Painters, Sculptors, and Engravers) to exhibit their artworks independently. At their first exhibition, held in April 1874, Monet exhibited the work that was to give the group its lasting name. He was inspired by the style and subject matter of previous modern painters Camille Pissarro and Edouard Manet.\n\n\"Impression, Sunrise\" was painted in 1872, depicting a Le Havre port landscape. From the painting's title the art critic Louis Leroy, in his review, \"L'Exposition des Impressionnistes,\" which appeared in \"Le Charivari\", coined the term \"Impressionism\". It was intended as disparagement but the Impressionists appropriated the term for themselves.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian War (19 July 1870), Monet and his family took refuge in England in September 1870, where he studied the works of John Constable and Joseph Mallord William Turner, both of whose landscapes would serve to inspire Monet's innovations in the study of colour. In the spring of 1871, Monet's works were refused authorisation for inclusion in the Royal Academy exhibition.\n\nIn May 1871, he left London to live in Zaandam, in the Netherlands, where he made twenty-five paintings (and the police suspected him of revolutionary activities). He also paid a first visit to nearby Amsterdam. In October or November 1871, he returned to France. From December 1871 to 1878 he lived at Argenteuil, a village on the right bank of the Seine river near Paris, and a popular Sunday-outing destination for Parisians, where he painted some of his best-known works. In 1873, Monet purchased a small boat equipped to be used as a floating studio. From the boat studio Monet painted landscapes and also portraits of Édouard Manet and his wife; Manet in turn depicted Monet painting aboard the boat, accompanied by Camille, in 1874. In 1874, he briefly returned to Holland.\n\nThe first Impressionist exhibition was held in 1874 at 35 boulevard des Capucines, Paris, from 15 April to 15 May. The primary purpose of the participants was not so much to promote a new style, but to free themselves from the constraints of the Salon de Paris. The exhibition, open to anyone prepared to pay 60 francs, gave artists the opportunity to show their work without the interference of a jury.\n\nRenoir chaired the hanging committee and did most of the work himself, as others members failed to present themselves.\n\nIn addition to \"\" (pictured above), Monet presented four oil paintings and seven pastels. Among the paintings he displayed was \"The Luncheon\" (1868), which features Camille Doncieux and Jean Monet, and which had been rejected by the Paris Salon of 1870. Also in this exhibition was a painting titled \"Boulevard des Capucines\", a painting of the boulevard done from the photographer Nadar's apartment at no. 35. Monet painted the subject twice, and it is uncertain which of the two pictures, that now in the Pushkin Museum in Moscow, or that in the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, was the painting that appeared in the groundbreaking 1874 exhibition, though more recently the Moscow picture has been favoured. Altogether, 165 works were exhibited in the exhibition, including 4 oils, 2 pastels and 3 watercolours by Morisot; 6 oils and 1 pastel by Renoir; 10 works by Degas; 5 by Pissarro; 3 by Cézanne; and 3 by Guillaumin. Several works were on loan, including Cézanne's \"Modern Olympia\", Morisot's \"Hide and Seek\" (owned by Manet) and 2 landscapes by Sisley that had been purchased by Durand-Ruel.\n\nThe total attendance is estimated at 3500, and some works did sell, though some exhibitors had placed their prices too high. Pissarro was asking 1000 francs for \"The Orchard\" and Monet the same for \"Impression: Sunrise\", neither of which sold. Renoir failed to obtain the 500 francs he was asking for \"La Loge\", but later sold it for 450 francs to Père Martin, dealer and supporter of the group.\n\nIn 1876, Camille Monet became ill with tuberculosis. Their second son, Michel, was born on 17 March 1878. This second child weakened her already fading health. In the summer of that year, the family moved to the village of Vétheuil where they shared a house with the family of Ernest Hoschedé, a wealthy department store owner and patron of the arts. In 1878, Camille Monet was diagnosed with uterine cancer. She died on 5 September 1879 at the age of thirty-two.\n\nMonet made a study in oils of his dead wife. Many years later, Monet confessed to his friend Georges Clemenceau that his need to analyse colours was both the joy and torment of his life. He explained,\n\nI one day found myself looking at my beloved wife's dead face and just systematically noting the colours according to an automatic reflex!\n\nJohn Berger describes the work as \"a blizzard of white, grey, purplish paint ... a terrible blizzard of loss which will forever efface her features. In fact there can be very few death-bed paintings which have been so intensely felt or subjectively expressive.\"\n\nAfter several difficult months following the death of Camille, Monet began to create some of his best paintings of the 19th century. During the early 1880s, Monet painted several groups of landscapes and seascapes in what he considered to be campaigns to document the French countryside. These began to evolve into series of pictures in which he documented the same scene many times in order to capture the changing of light and the passing of the seasons.\n\nMonet's friend Ernest Hoschedé became bankrupt, and left in 1878 for Belgium. After the death of Camille Monet in September 1879, and while Monet continued to live in the house in Vétheuil, Alice Hoschedé helped Monet to raise his two sons, Jean and Michel. She took them to Paris to live alongside her own six children, Blanche (who married Jean Monet), Germaine, Suzanne, Marthe, Jean-Pierre, and Jacques. In the spring of 1880, Alice Hoschedé and all the children left Paris and rejoined Monet at Vétheuil. In 1881, all of them moved to Poissy, which Monet hated. In April 1883, looking out the window of the little train between Vernon and Gasny, he discovered Giverny in Normandy. Monet, Alice Hoschedé and the children moved to Vernon, then to the house in Giverny, where he planted a large garden and where he painted for much of the rest of his life. Following the death of her estranged husband, Monet married Alice Hoschedé in 1892.\n\nMonet rented and eventually purchased a house and gardens in Giverny. At the beginning of May 1883, Monet and his large family rented the home and from a local landowner. The house was situated near the main road between the towns of Vernon and Gasny at Giverny. There was a barn that doubled as a painting studio, orchards and a small garden. The house was close enough to the local schools for the children to attend, and the surrounding landscape offered many suitable motifs for Monet's work.\n\nThe family worked and built up the gardens, and Monet's fortunes began to change for the better as his dealer, Paul Durand-Ruel, had increasing success in selling his paintings. By November 1890, Monet was prosperous enough to buy the house, the surrounding buildings and the land for his gardens. During the 1890s, Monet built a greenhouse and a second studio, a spacious building well lit with skylights.\n\nMonet wrote daily instructions to his gardener, precise designs and layouts for plantings, and invoices for his floral purchases and his collection of botany books. As Monet's wealth grew, his garden evolved. He remained its architect, even after he hired seven gardeners.\n\nMonet purchased additional land with a water meadow. In 1893 he began a vast landscaping project which included lily ponds that would become the subjects of his best-known works. White water lilies local to France were planted along with imported cultivars from South America and Egypt, resulting in a range of colours including yellow, blue and white lilies that turned pink with age. In 1899 he began painting the water lilies, first in vertical views with a Japanese bridge as a central feature, and later in the series of large-scale paintings that was to occupy him continuously for the next 20 years of his life. This scenery, with its alternating light and mirror-like reflections, became an integral part of his work. By the mid-1910s Monet had achieved\n\nMonet's second wife, Alice, died in 1911, and his oldest son Jean, who had married Alice's daughter Blanche, Monet's particular favourite, died in 1914. After Alice died, Blanche looked after and cared for Monet. It was during this time that Monet began to develop the first signs of cataracts.\n\nDuring World War I, in which his younger son Michel served and his friend and admirer Georges Clemenceau led the French nation, Monet painted a series of weeping willow trees as homage to the French fallen soldiers. In 1923, he underwent two operations to remove his cataracts. The paintings done while the cataracts affected his vision have a general reddish tone, which is characteristic of the vision of cataract victims. It may also be that after surgery he was able to see certain ultraviolet wavelengths of light that are normally excluded by the lens of the eye; this may have had an effect on the colours he perceived. After his operations he even repainted some of these paintings, with bluer water lilies than before.\n\nMonet died of lung cancer on 5 December 1926 at the age of 86 and is buried in the Giverny church cemetery. Monet had insisted that the occasion be simple; thus only about fifty people attended the ceremony. At his funeral, his long-time friend Georges Clemenceau removed the black cloth draped over the coffin, stating, \"No black for Monet!\" and replaced it with a flower-patterned cloth.\n\nHis home, garden, and waterlily pond were bequeathed by his son Michel, his only heir, to the French Academy of Fine Arts (part of the Institut de France) in 1966. Through the \"Fondation Claude Monet\", the house and gardens were opened for visits in 1980, following restoration. In addition to souvenirs of Monet and other objects of his life, the house contains his collection of Japanese woodcut prints. The house and garden, along with the Museum of Impressionism, are major attractions in Giverny, which hosts tourists from all over the world.\n\nMonet has been described as \"the driving force behind Impressionism\". Crucial to the art of the Impressionist painters was the understanding of the effects of light on the local colour of objects, and the effects of the juxtaposition of colours with each other. Monet's long career as a painter was spent in the pursuit of this aim.\n\nIn 1856, his chance meeting with Eugene Boudin, a painter of small beach scenes, opened his eyes to the possibility of plein-air painting. From that time, with a short interruption for military service, he dedicated himself to searching for new and improved methods of painterly expression. To this end, as a young man, he visited the Paris Salon and familiarised himself with the works of older painters, and made friends with other young artists. The five years that he spent at Argenteuil, spending much time on the River Seine in a little floating studio, were formative in his study of the effects of light and reflections. He began to think in terms of colours and shapes rather than scenes and objects. He used bright colours in dabs and dashes and squiggles of paint. Having rejected the academic teachings of Gleyre's studio, he freed himself from theory, saying \"I like to paint as a bird sings.\"\n\nIn 1877 a series of paintings at St-Lazare Station had Monet looking at smoke and steam and the way that they affected colour and visibility, being sometimes opaque and sometimes translucent. He was to further use this study in the painting of the effects of mist and rain on the landscape. The study of the effects of atmosphere was to evolve into a number of series of paintings in which Monet repeatedly painted the same subject in different lights, at different hours of the day, and through the changes of weather and season. This process began in the 1880s and continued until the end of his life in 1926.\n\nHis first series exhibited as such was of Haystacks, painted from different points of view and at different times of the day. Fifteen of the paintings were exhibited at the Galerie Durand-Ruel in 1891. In 1892 he produced what is probably his best-known series, twenty-six views of \"Rouen Cathedral\". In these paintings Monet broke with painterly traditions by cropping the subject so that only a portion of the façade is seen on the canvas. The paintings do not focus on the grand Medieval building, but on the play of light and shade across its surface, transforming the solid masonry.\n\nOther series include \"Poplars\", \"Mornings on the Seine\", and the \"Water Lilies\" that were painted on his property at Giverny. Between 1883 and 1908, Monet traveled to the Mediterranean, where he painted landmarks, landscapes, and seascapes, including a series of paintings in Venice. In London he painted four series: \"the Houses of Parliament, London\", \"Charing Cross Bridge\", \"Waterloo Bridge\", and \"Views of Westminster Bridge\". Helen Gardner writes:\n\nIn 2004, \"London, the Parliament, Effects of Sun in the Fog (Londres, le Parlement, trouée de soleil dans le brouillard)\" (1904), sold for US$20.1 million. In 2006, the journal \"Proceedings of the Royal Society\" published a paper providing evidence that these were painted in situ at St Thomas' Hospital over the river Thames.\n\n\"Falaises près de Dieppe (Cliffs near Dieppe)\" has been stolen on two separate occasions: once in 1998 (in which the museum's curator was convicted of the theft and jailed for five years and two months along with two accomplices) and most recently in August 2007. It was recovered in June 2008.\n\nMonet's \"Le Pont du chemin de fer à Argenteuil\", an 1873 painting of a railway bridge spanning the Seine near Paris, was bought by an anonymous telephone bidder for a record $41.4 million at Christie's auction in New York on 6 May 2008. The previous record for his painting stood at $36.5 million. Just a few weeks later, \"Le bassin aux nymphéas\" (from the water lilies series) sold at Christie's 24 June 2008 auction in London, lot 19, for £36,500,000 ($71,892,376.34) (hammer price) or £40,921,250 ($80,451,178) with fees, nearly doubling the record for the artist and representing one of the top 20 highest prices paid for a painting at the time.\n\nIn October 2013, Monet's paintings, \"L'Eglise de Vetheuil\" and \"Le Bassin aux Nympheas\", became subjects of a legal case in New York against NY-based Vilma Bautista, one-time aide to Imelda Marcos, wife of dictator Ferdinand Marcos, after she sold \"Le Bassin aux Nympheas\" for $32 million to a Swiss buyer. The said Monet paintings, along with two others, were acquired by Imelda during her husband's presidency and allegedly bought using the nation's funds. Bautista's lawyer claimed that the aide sold the painting for Imelda but did not have a chance to give her the money. The Philippine government seeks the return of the painting. \"Le Bassin aux Nympheas\", also known as \"Japanese Footbridge over the Water-Lily Pond at Giverny\", is part of Monet's famed Water Lilies series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19816185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19816185", "title": "David Schildknecht", "text": "David Schildknecht\n\nDavid Schildknecht is an American wine critic, a full-time member of \"Vinous\", and previous member of \"The Wine Advocate\", contributor to recent editions of Robert Parker's \"Wine Buyer’s Guide\". An authority on the wine of Germany and Austria, he also considers the Loire Valley a specialty, a wine region he has described as \"the bargain garden of France\". He currently covers the French regions of the Loire Valley, Alsace, Beaujolais, Burgundy, Champagne, the Jura, the Savoie and (through calendar 2013) the Languedoc-Roussillon, as well as Austria, Germany and other central Europe wine producing regions, and additionally Oregon, the American East Coast and Midwest wines.\n\nSchildknecht - who worked in Washington DC with Rex Wine & Spirits from 1981, with Mayflower Wine and Spirits, and with Pearson’s - regularly assembled and presented wines from German growers for Parker's reports in \"The Wine Advocate\" from 1990 through 1993. From 1985-1995, he reported from Austria, Germany, selected regions of France and Hungary for Stephen Tanzer's \"International Wine Cellar.\"\" \"From 1997 to early 2007, when his duties at The Wine Advocate were expanded to include French wines, Schildknecht imported wines of France for Ohio-based wine importer and distributor Vintner Select.\n\nSchildknecht has authored substantial portions of the 7th edition of Robert Parker's Wine Buyer's Guide and Robert Parker's Wine Bargains as well as the material on German wines in the third edition of \"The Oxford Companion to Wine\", and has contributed as feature writer and columnist to Wine & Spirits, \"The World of Fine Wine\", and Austria's Vinaria. On the subject of TCA taint, Schildknecht has presented his views on stoppers on the website of Jancis Robinson.\n\nEric Asimov has described Schildknecht as \"one of the most learned and thoughtful wine writers around\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55293227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55293227", "title": "Esen Topoev", "text": "Esen Topoev\n\nEsen Topoev () is a Kyrgyzstani General and the Former Minister of Defense of Kyrgyzstan.\n\nHe was born on February 28, 1952 in the city of Kyzyl-Kiya. In 1973 he graduated from the Tashkent Higher Combined Arms Command School, He graduated the Frunze Military Academy in 1985. From 1995 to 1999 he served as Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Kyrgyz Republic. In August 1999, by the Decree of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic, he was appointed Minister of Defense of the Kyrgyz Republic.\n"}
{"id": "8593847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8593847", "title": "François Léotard", "text": "François Léotard\n\nFrançois Gerard Marie Léotard (born 26 March 1942, in Cannes) is a retired French politician. Singer and actor Philippe Léotard (1940–2001) was his brother.\n\nMember of the Republican Party, the liberal-conservative component of the Union for French Democracy (UDF), he appeared in the foreground of the political scene in the 1980s. He led a new generation of right-wing politicians, the \"renovationmen\", who opposed the old right-wing leaders Jacques Chirac and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.\n\nIn 1981, he was selected to be one of the first \"Young Leaders\" of the French-American Foundation. His political career started with being elected as the Mayor of Fréjus in 1977. He served two terms as the deputy of Var.\n\nCulture Minister, from 1986 to 1988, he sold the main public TV channel TF1. He returned in the cabinet as Defense Minister, from 1993 to 1995. Supporting the candidacy of Edouard Balladur in the 1995 presidential election, he was dismissed after Chirac's election. Elected president of the UDF in 1996, he could not prevent the split of this confederation two years later with Alain Madelin's secession. This and the party's poor showing in the 1998 regional elections prompted his resignation. After a mission in Macedonia in 2001 as representative of the European Union, he retired from politics. In 2003, he created together with other prominent European personalities the Medbridge Strategy Center, whose goal is to promote dialogue and mutual understanding between Europe and the Middle-East. He has since written several books.\n\nGovernmental functions\n\nMinister of State, minister of Defence : 1993–1995.\n\nMinister of Culture and Communication : 1986–1988.\n\nElectoral mandates\n\nNational Assembly of France\n\nMember of the National Assembly of France for Var (department) : 1978–1986 (Became minister in 1986) / 1988–1993 (Became minister in 1993) / 1995–2001 (Resignation). Elected in 1978, reelected in 1981, 1986, 1988, 1993, 1995, 1997.\n\nRegional Council\n\nRegional councillor of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur : 1998–2004.\n\nGeneral Council\n\nGeneral councillor of Var (department) : 1979–1988 (Resignation). Reelected in 1985.\n\nMunicipal Council\n\nMayor of Fréjus : 1977–1997 (Resignation). Reelected in 1983, 1989, 1995.\n\nMunicipal councillor of Fréjus : 1977–1997 (Resignation). Reelected in 1983, 1989, 1995.\n\nPolitical functions\n\nPresident of the Union for French Democracy : 1996–1998.\n\nPresident of the Republican Party (France) : 1982–1990 / 1995–1997.\n\nLéotard wrote also several books including non-fiction and a couple of novels:\n\n"}
{"id": "48264788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48264788", "title": "Gerald Busby", "text": "Gerald Busby\n\nGerald Busby (born December 16, 1935) is a Texas-born American composer.\n\nBusby was born in Tyler, Texas. He studied piano as a child, playing with the Houston Symphony when he was fifteen. He attended Yale where he studied music in college, but once graduated, began working as a traveling salesman. At age 40 he had an \"epiphany\" and began to compose, a direction which surprised him.\n\nIn 1977, with the assistance of Virgil Thomson, he moved to the Hotel Chelsea in New York City where he has written most of his work. Living at the Hotel Chelsea brought him into contact with numerous cultural figures. One of them was dancer Rudolf Nureyev and his then-partner Wallace Potts. Potts gave Paul Taylor a recording by Busby's music, which led to Busby writing the score for Taylor's dance \"Runes\". Regarding his scores for Paul Taylor's dance \"Runes\" and Robert Altman's film \"3 Women\", Busby said \"Those two pieces are acknowledged as masterpieces, so that I know they’ll last beyond me,” Mr. Busby said. “Not because what I did was a masterpiece, but I was part of it.\"\n\nIn 1985 Busby was diagnosed with HIV as was his partner Samuel Byers. Byers died on December 14, 1993; the couple had been together for 18 years. \"Sam’s death was just unbearable...He lost his mind and withered away. I was there the whole time with him and taking care of him, so I just went nuts.\" After a bout of depression and drug addiction, he became sober and began composing again. In 2007, his monthly income amounted to $658 from Social Security, $78 in disability payments, and $156 in food stamps. Income from his music was undependable; in a good month he could get $1000, or nothing.The New York Times ran him as one of their \"most neediest cases.\" Through the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, Busby was able to receive $754.96 for digitizing recordings originally made on perishable cassette tape.\n\nDespite being HIV positive, he claims that his immune system has regenerated, something he attributes to his daily practice of reiki. He continues to live at the Hotel Chelsea.\n\n"}
{"id": "1374961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374961", "title": "Gordon Lyon", "text": "Gordon Lyon\n\nGordon Lyon (also known by his pseudonym Fyodor Vaskovich) is a network security expert, open source programmer, writer, and hacker. He authored the open source Nmap Security Scanner and numerous books, web sites, and technical papers focusing on network security. Lyon is a founding member of the Honeynet Project and was Vice President of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility.\n\nLyon has been active in the network security community since the mid-1990s. His \"handle\", Fyodor, was taken from Russian author Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Most of his programming is done in the C, C++, and Perl programming languages. He lives in Palo Alto, California.\n\nIn December 2011 Lyon published his strong dislike of the way Download.com started bundling grayware with their installation managers and concerns over the bundled software, causing many people to spread the post on social networks, and a few dozen media reports. The main problem is the confusion between Download.com-offered content and software offered by original authors; the accusations included deception as well as copyright and trademark violation.\n\nLyon has lost control of the Nmap Sourceforge page, with Sourceforge taking over the project's page and offering adware wrapped download bundles.\n\nLyon maintains several network security web sites:\n\nLyon has written and co-authored several books:\n\nPublic interviews with Lyon/Vaskovich have been posted by SecurityFocus, Slashdot, Zone-H, TuxJournal, Safemode, and Google. Many of these provide more personal details than his official bio page does.\n\nLyon attends and speaks at many security conferences. He has presented at DEFCON, CanSecWest, FOSDEM, IT Security World, Security Masters' Dojo, ShmooCon, IT-Defense, SFOBug, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1913154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913154", "title": "Herculine Barbin", "text": "Herculine Barbin\n\nHerculine Barbin (November 8, 1838– February 1868) was a French intersex person who was determined as female at birth and raised in a convent, but was later reclassified as male by a court of law, after an affair and physical examination.\n\nMost of what we know about Barbin comes from her later memoirs. Herculine Adélaîde Barbin was born in Saint-Jean-d'Angély in France in 1838. She was assigned as a girl and raised as such; her family referred to her as Alexina. Her family was poor but she gained a charity scholarship to study in the school of an Ursuline convent.\n\nAccording to her account, she had a crush on an aristocratic female friend in school. She regarded herself as unattractive but sometimes slipped into her friend's room at night and was sometimes punished for that. However, her studies were successful and in 1856, at the age of seventeen she was sent to Le Chateau to study to become a teacher. There she fell in love with one of the teachers.\n\nAlthough Barbin was in puberty, she had not begun to menstruate and remained flat chested. The hairs on her upper lip and cheeks were noticeable.\n\nIn 1857 Barbin received a position as an assistant teacher in a girls' school. She fell in love with another teacher, Sara, and Barbin demanded that only she should dress her. Her ministrations turned into caresses and they became lovers. Eventually rumors about their affair began to circulate.\n\nBarbin, although sick her whole life, began to suffer excruciating pains. When a doctor examined her, he was shocked and asked that she should be sent away from the school, but she stayed.\n\nEventually, the devoutly Catholic Barbin confessed to Jean-François-Anne Landriot, the Bishop of La Rochelle. She asked him permission to break the confessional silence in order to send for a doctor to examine her. When Dr. Chesnet did so in 1860, he discovered that even if Barbin had a small vagina, she had a masculine body type, a very small penis, and testicles inside her body. In 20th-century medical terms, she had \"male pseudohermaphroditism\".\n\nA later legal decision declared official that Barbin was male. She left her lover and her job, changed her name to Abel Barbin and was briefly mentioned in the press. She moved to Paris where she lived in poverty and wrote her memoirs, reputedly as a part of therapy. In the memoirs, Barbin would use female pronouns when writing about her life prior to sexual redesignation and male pronouns, including Alexina and Camille, following the declaration. Nevertheless, she clearly regarded herself as punished, and \"disinherited\", subject to a \"ridiculous inquisition\".\n\nIn his commentary to Barbin's memoirs, Michel Foucault presented Barbin as an example of the \"happy limbo of a non-identity\", but whose masculinity marked her from her contemporaries. Morgan Holmes states that Barbin's own writings showed that she saw herself as an \"exceptional female\", but female nonetheless.\n\nIn February 1868, the concierge of Barbin's house in rue de l'École-de-Médecine found her dead in her home. She had committed suicide by inhaling gas from her coal gas stove. Her memoirs were found beside her bed.\n\nDr. Regnier reported the death, recovered the memoirs and performed an autopsy. Later he gave the memoirs to Auguste Ambroise Tardieu, who published excerpts as \"Histoire et souvenirs d'Alexina B.\" (\"The Story and Memoirs of Alexina B.\") in his book \"Question médico-légale de l'identité dans ses rapport avec les vices de conformation des organes sexuels, contenant les souvenirs et impressions d'un individu dont le sexe avait été méconnu\" (\"Forensics of Identity Involving Deformities of the Sexual Organs, Along With the Memoirs and Impressions of an Individual Whose Sex Was Misidentified\") (Paris: J.-B. Ballière et Fils, 1872). The excerpts were translated to English in 1980.\n\nMichel Foucault discovered the memoirs in the 1970s while conducting research at the French Department of Public Hygiene. He had the journals republished as \"\". In his edition, Foucault also included a set of medical reports, legal documents, and newspaper articles, as well as a short story adaptation by Oscar Panizza.\n\nAccording to Morgan Holmes, the anthropologist Gilbert Herdt has identified Barbin as providing a crisis for \"modern ideology\" through an identification as neither male nor female, but Barbin's own writings describe a self-identification as female, albeit an exceptional female.\n\nBarbin's memoirs inspired the French film \"The Mystery of Alexina\". and Jeffrey Eugenides in his book \"Middlesex\" treats concurrent themes, as does Virginia Woolf in her book, \"\". Judith Butler refers to Foucault's commentary on Barbin at various points in her 1990 \"Gender Trouble\", including her chapter \"Foucault, Herculine, and the Politics of Sexual Discontinuity.\"\n\nBarbin appears as a character in the play \"A Mouthful of Birds\" by Caryl Churchill and David Lan. Barbin also appears as a character in the play \"Hidden: A Gender\" by Kate Bornstein. \"Herculine,\" a full-length play based on the memoirs of Barbin, is by Garrett Heater. Kira Obolensky also wrote a two-act stage adaptation entitled \"The Adventures of Herculina\".\n\nIn 2014, a manuscript entitled \"Dear Herculine\" by Aaron Apps won the 2014 Sawtooth Poetry Prize from Ahsahta Press.\n\nThe birthday of Herculine Barbin is marked in Intersex Day of Remembrance on 8 November.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50798825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50798825", "title": "Jean-François Boch", "text": "Jean-François Boch\n\nJean-François Nicolas Boch Buschmann (9 March 1782 - 9 February 1858) was a Luxembourg manufacturer. He was a member of the third generation of owners of the family pottery business, Jean-François Boch which at that time had its headquarters at a short distance to the north of Luxembourg City. He became the head of the family firm which, in his time, was known chiefly for industrial production of porcelain tableware and tiles.\n\nReflecting the variety of languages in common use in Luxembourg, sources may identify him under various different names. Older German language sources may refer to him as Johann Franz Boch or Johann Franz Boch-Buschmann. Luxembourgeois and Dutch language sources may identify him as Jean Boch-Buschmann.\n\nJean-François Boch was born in the family home at in Luxembourg. His father was the entrepreneur-industrialist (1737-1818) from Lorraine. His mother, born Marie Antoinette Lucie Nothomb, was from Luxembourg.\n\nIn 1806 Boch married Anne Marie Rosalie Buschmann (1785-1870), the daughter of a successful master-tanner from St. Vith.\n\nBoch learned the business of industrial pottery from his father. When he was 27 he left his parents' home to set up in business independently, buying in 1809 the baroque Benedictine at Mettlach in the Sarre department. The abbey was available after having been \"secularised\" in the wake of the French annexation of the region in 1798. Boch set up an ultra modern and highly mechanised ceramics / tableware factory at Mettlach. The machines were operated using hydro-power from a fast flowing stream running into the Sarre on one side of the site. For the ovens used for firing the product, the government imposed the condition that Boch would have to use the soft bituminous coal which was available in abundance locally. This was of technical significance because up to that time no pottery factory in Europe had used this soft coal for its firing ovens. The ovens created at Mettlach were accordingly the first of their kind.\n\nBoch's treatment of his workforce reflected the paternalistic approach of the more enlightened employers of the time, and in 1819 he was able to set up an orphans' support fund for workers' families. A savings and loans bank followed. He set up a \"Workers' casino\" and a \"Reading association\" in order to promote the spiritual and moral improvement of his employees.\n\nBusiness flourished. At the Prussian Exhibition held in 1822 in Berlin Boch was the only manufacturer in the pottery and ceramics sector to receive a gold medal. It was also at this exhibition that Boch met the privy councillor and industrial pioneer Peter Beuth. Shortly after this the two of them undertook a research visit to England in order to study production methods there. Boch spotted a new mechanism for using hydropower to turn wheels/lathes and introduced similar mechanisms in his own factories, which was another first in Continental Europe. \n\nIn order to survive the onslaught from English imports, in 1836 Jean-François Boch of Mettlach and his competitor of Wallerfangen (Saarlouis) merged their businesses, forming Villeroy & Boch. Further expansion followed with the acquisition across the frontier in France of \"Utzschneider und Fabry\" of Sarreguemines and in Belgium where they established \"Keramis\". A facility was also set up at Dresden in Saxony. \n\nAfter he had been able to pass on leadership of the business in Mettlach to his sons, in 1844 Jean-François Boch moved back to and took over the original family business there. He continued to run the company till his death in 1858. It was here that he developed and put into production a completely new product line, the so-called \"Mettlacher Platten\" (ceramic floor tiles). \n\nIn 1849 Jean-François Boch made a brief excursion into the world of politics, serving as a member of the Frankfurt Parliament between 3 January and 30 May. He was one of three representatives from Luxembourg, taking the place previously occupied by Jean-Jacques Willmar, who had to return to Luxembourg after being appointed the Grand duchy's prime minister on 6 December 1848. At Frankfurt Boch did not join any particular faction, but he tended to vote with the Centre-Right members, supporting of the election of the Prussian king as Emperor of the Germans. (The king declined the appointment.) When the parliament discussed the question of a possible German state under Prussian leadership, the three Luxembourg members presented a united front, insisting on certain conditions that would be necessary for Luxembourg to join any such union.\n"}
{"id": "55894171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55894171", "title": "Kaarin Taipale", "text": "Kaarin Taipale\n\nKaarin Taipale (born July 22, 1948 in Helsinki) is a Finnish architect and an expert on sustainable development and urban research. Taipale was a Social Democratic Party of Finland (SDP) candidate for the constituency of Helsinki in the 2015 parliamentary elections.\n\nTaipale completed music studies at the Sibelius Academy in 1964-1967. In 1972, she graduated as an architect from Zurich Technical University. She subsequently attended Columbia University in New York. In 2009, Taipale completed her studies in the field of urban planning at the Helsinki University of Technology.\n\nBetween 1988 and 1991, Taipale was Editor-in-Chief of \"Arkkitehti\", the Finnish Architectural Review. She has worked as a columnist, for example, in \"Uudessa Suomessa \" (1989-1990) and in \"Helsingin Sanomissa\" (1990-1993) and in Yle Radio 1. From 1993-2003, Taipale worked as Head of the Building Inspectorate of the City of Helsinki. Since 2000, she has been chairman of the ICLEI Joint Municipal Organization and has since been a researcher at the Helsinki School of Economics. Shae has also been chair of the UN-led Marrakech Task Force on Sustainable Buildings and Construction on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment.\n\nTaipale was a Social Democratic Party of Finland (SDP) candidate for the constituency of Helsinki in the 2015 parliamentary elections. As a City Councilor of the SDP, she has been involved with discussing the proposals to close Malmi Airport to make way for residential development.\n"}
{"id": "2010896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2010896", "title": "Killer Moth", "text": "Killer Moth\n\nKiller Moth (Drury Walker) is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of Batman. Killer Moth originally wore a garish costume of purple and green striped fabric, with an orange cape and a moth-like mask.\n\nKiller Moth first appeared in \"Batman\" #63 (February 1951) and was created by Bill Finger, Dick Sprang, and Lew Schwartz.\n\nThe original Killer Moth was a prisoner identified only by his prison number, 234026. While in prison, he reads a newspaper article about Batman and decides to set himself up as the \"anti-Batman\", hiring himself out to Gotham City's criminals to help them elude capture by police. Upon his release, he uses the hidden proceeds of his crimes to build a \"Mothcave\", modeled on the photos of the Batcave in the newspaper article he read.\n\nKiller Moth also establishes a false identity as millionaire philanthropist Cameron van Cleer. In this guise, he becomes friends with Bruce Wayne. Meanwhile, he promotes himself to Gotham's criminals using his identity as Killer Moth, giving them each an infra-red Moth-Signal. In his first job, he rescues some criminals from the police and then uses his Mothmobile to defeat and capture Batman and Robin. The duo escape and lead Killer Moth to a climactic battle on Gotham Bridge, in which he is defeated.\n\nIn his second appearance (\"Detective Comics\" #173 (July 1951)) Killer Moth kidnaps Bruce Wayne and learns his secret identity. However, he is shot by other criminals and the resultant cranial injury causes amnesia. He remains a persistent enemy through the Silver Age of Comic Books, being the first villain Batgirl encounters in \"Detective Comics\" #359 (January 1967). He teams up with the Cavalier twice: the first time in \"Batman Family\" #10 (March-April 1977), where they battle Batgirl and Batwoman (Kathy Kane, who comes out of retirement for the first time in years) and the second (and final) time in \"Batman Family\" #15 (December 1977-January 1978), where they battle Batgirl and Robin.\n\nIn the 1990s, in the Post-Crisis continuity, Killer Moth's real identity is revealed as Drury Walker, an unsuccessful criminal who no one takes seriously. He again adopts the false identity of Cameron van Cleer and the persona of Killer Moth to fight Batman. This version first appears in \"\" #7-9 (December 1992-February 1993), with a more detailed origin story appearing in \"\" #1-9 (February-October 2003).\n\nIn \"Batman: Shadow of the Bat\", Killer Moth sets up a team called \"the Misfits\", comprising Batman villains such as Catman and Calendar Man, to make another kidnapping attempt on Bruce Wayne, as well as other prominent citizens. This team proves unsuccessful, turning against the Moth when they realize he plans to kill the hostages.\n\nHe is one of the villains who sells their souls to the demon Neron in \"Underworld Unleashed\" #1 (November 1995) and in \"Robin\" #23-24 (December 1995-January 1996), where he asks to become feared instead of always being laughed at. He is metamorphosed into a carnivorous moth-like monster called Charaxes. As Charaxes, Walker resembles a vaguely humanoid, giant brown moth. He consumes humans and spins cocoons in which to keep his prey.\n\nIn a later story, Charaxes begins laying hundreds of eggs, all of which hatch into duplicates of Drury Walker. Charaxes despises his progeny, but is unable to destroy them. Following his capture, these duplicates are taken into government custody. During an argument between various bodies as to what should be done with them, they attack a scientist and are killed.\n\nAt around the same time, Oracle is confronted by a criminal named Danko Twag who claims to be the \"real\" Killer Moth (the one she had defeated), and that Drury Walker had been an impostor. During a rant in which he claims they are going to be a team, she captures him in an energy cell and he seemingly disintegrates himself.\n\nIn \"Infinite Crisis\", Charaxes is killed by being ripped in half by Superboy-Prime during the Battle of Metropolis.\n\nIn order to ensure the existence of Batman, Rip Hunter tells Booster Gold and Skeets that they have to make sure Wiley Dalbert, a time-travelling criminal who had hired Killer Moth, completes his crime successfully. Booster does this by dressing up as Killer Moth and taking his place. During the robbery, he is forced to fight with Batman and Robin and takes them both down. An unfortunate, unintended side effect of this is that, when they return to the present, Gotham still has no Batman and Killer Moth is now a serious threat, thanks to the \"street cred\" from the robbery. Booster, Skeets and his sister Goldstar attempt to fix the anomaly they created by taking Batman's place in the robbery, but things go wrong when Alfred Pennyworth intervenes; the Time Masters barely escape in the Batmobile. Instead they steal Batgirl's costume and purchase an Elvis costume for Booster. Booster stops the version of him dressed as Killer Moth from defeating Batman and makes sure that Wiley gets away with the loot, thus restoring the timeline.\n\nDuring the \"Adventure Comics\" series' \"Blackest Night\" tie-in story, Charaxes is reanimated as a member of the Black Lantern Corps. Superboy-Prime destroys Charaxes on Earth Prime, using the black ring cycling through the power set, resulting in a burst of coloured energy that destroys Black Lanterns.\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\", Killer Moth is again Drury Walker, a low-level criminal. He first appeared in the \"Zero Year\" story arc in which he was defeated by both Batman and Green Arrow, teaming up for the first time.. Firefly and Killer Moth team up to hunt and kill Batman in \"All-Star Batman\" after Two-Face offers millions of dollars to anyone who will kill Batman for him. Like most of the people who try, Firefly and Killer Moth also fail.\n\nKiller Moth later appeared as a member of Richard Dragon's Longbow Hunters.\n\nA new Killer Moth appears in \"Batman\" #652, during the \"\" storyline wherein he displays competence in hand-to-hand combat and the ability of flight when facing Robin. He later appears working alongside fellow Gotham criminals Firefly and Lock-Up in the \"Gotham Underground\" limited series. The identity and origins of this new Killer Moth remain unrevealed.\n\nSeveral villains clad in Killer Moth costumes appear in \"Secret Six\" (vol. 3) #7. At least one of them is killed by Deadshot.\n\nKiller Moth recently appeared in the first issue of the mini-series \"\". He was hired by Prometheus to kidnap and torture Mike Dante, ex-assistant to Atom ally Professor Hyatt. The two current holders of the Atom identity, Ray Palmer and Ryan Choi, tracked Killer Moth and his goons down to a hideout in Albuquerque, New Mexico and defeated them all. Ray Palmer then tortured Killer Moth by entering his head via the nasal pathways and growing inside his skull. Killer Moth immediately gave up Prometheus as his employer.\n\nIn \"Red Robin\" #9, Red Robin returns to Gotham City where he runs into Killer Moth in his classic costume, holding a man at gunpoint. Red Robin thinks to himself \"I think this is Killer Moth. The costume and the man change from time to time, so you can never really tell.\". This Killer Moth seems to be scared and on the run, stating \"Are you with him? Are you with the Atom? I won't let you torture me, too!\".\n\nIn his original incarnation, Killer Moth has no superhuman abilities; he relies on the vast array of equipment he has developed. Killer Moth’s range of gimmicks includes a Mothmobile, a Moth-Signal, and a steel line, which allows him to swing through the skies as if he were flying. He carries a cocoon gun that fires a stream of sticky threads that can totally envelop a victim. The gun can also fire a grenade.\n\nAs Charaxes, he has superhuman strength, agility and endurance, an exoskeleton that gives him some protection from physical and energy attacks, a set of wings that allows him to fly, sharp claws and sharp, prehensile antennae. Charaxes secretes a sticky acidic substance that can trap the strongest of men and dissolve their bodies.\n\nIn \"DC Rebirth\", he uses a highly compressed air gun to great effect as a weapon, shown to be powerful enough to stop a bullet in mid-air.\n\nIn \"Teen Titans Go!\" comic book series, Killer Moth was the second villain to arrive at the tower for the Titans' Party Party and informed them that he only attended to spend more time with Silkie. Throughout the party, he cuddled with the mutant moth larvae until Robin ordered all villains to leave, including Killer Moth. Killer Moth attacked Jump City and told the Titans they were outmatched. He noticed Cyborg, who had been disguised, and asked about his identity. Beast Boy lied that he was their brand new Killer Robot Titan and asked Killer Moth if he wanted to see how he fared against one. The villain, however, immediately left.\n\nIn \"\"'s prequel comic, after the events of \"\", following the defeat of Black Mask, Drury Walker checked out books from Barbara Gordon at the local library about moths and staked out her and her father, the newly promoted Commissioner Gordon, which Barbara noticed. Later, at a GCPD panel that proved Batman was simply a man with gadgets instead of some 'paranormal entity', Killer Moth crashed it to advertise his services with a free trial of killing Commissioner Gordon while his henchmen kept Batman preoccupied on the other side of Gotham. Barbara quickly put on the sample Batman costume, managed to defeat Killer Moth's henchmen, and disarmed the villain. After he realized that his plans were falling apart, Killer Moth threw Gordon off the rafters to kill him and used that as a diversion for his escape. As Barbara saved her father, Drury made his escape, and tried to calm himself down by saying that Batgirl was just a girl in a suit, like Batman, who happened to arrive just in time and subdued him.\n\nKiller Moth appears in the prequel comic to \"Injustice 2\". Following the events of the first game, Killer Moth is shown to be a member of this universe's Suicide Squad, but after an impostor Batman (later revealed to be Jason Todd) surprisingly appears and takes control of the Squad, he kills Killer Moth using the bomb implanted in his neck, considering him to be useless.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5675908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5675908", "title": "Kim Andersen (jockey)", "text": "Kim Andersen (jockey)\n\nKim Andersen (born 1963 in Klampenborg, Denmark) is a jockey in Scandinavian horse racing.\n\nAndersen grew up at the racecourse in Klampenborg where his father, John Andersen, was a jockey in the 1960s. He was keen to follow in his father's footsteps after finishing his education. His apprenticeship was postponed for 3 years because his father retired due to ill health after being in the business over in 20 years. His parents thought it was best if he first got an education.\n\nAfter finishing school Kim Andersen trained as a confectioner before he first became an apprentice to the champion trainer Franz Nutz. At the time Nutz already had a number of apprentice jockeys in his care who helped teach Andersen the business.\n\nThe first year as an apprentice there were no victories, but he persevered and won his first race a year later. He went on to become the leading jockey at his home racecourse at Klampenborg for 11 years.\n\nAndersen has ridden with success at a number of racing venues throughout Europe and made two visits to Western Australia where he also met with success.\n\n"}
{"id": "47206542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47206542", "title": "Kim Hyong-gwon", "text": "Kim Hyong-gwon\n\nKim Hyong-gwon (; 4 November 1905 – 12 January 1936) was a Korean revolutionary. He is known for attacking a Japanese police station in Japanese-occupied Korea and subsequently dying in Seoul's Seodaemun Prison where he was serving his sentence.\n\nKim Hyong-gwon was an uncle of the founding North Korean leader, Kim Il-sung. As such, he is among the most celebrated of the Kim family members in North Korean propaganda. Kimhyonggwon County in North Korea is named after him.\n\nIn his youth, Kim Hyong-gwon studied in Sunhwa school near his home in present-day Mangyongdae, Pyongyang.\n\nKim was a revolutionary fighter and an active communist in the 1930s. His personality has been described as \"hot-tempered\". In August 1930, he led a small detachment of guerrillas across the Amnok (Yalu) river to Japanese-occupied Korea from Manchuria. His small group's actions near Pungsan at that time got noticed by the Japanese press. He captured two Japanese police cars, and both of these acts occurred in mountainous terrain. Some time after attacking a Japanese police station in Pungsan, he was arrested near Hongwon. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison when he was 28 years old. He died on 12 January 1936, during his sentence in Seoul's Seodaemun Prison, where anti-Japanese dissidents were detained from 1910 to 1945 in cruel conditions.\n\nKim Il-sung remarks in his autobiography \"With the Century\", that it was a corrupt yet close Manchurian local official, Chae Jin Yong, who betrayed his uncle and became an informer against him.\n\nKim Hyong-gwon is among the most important Kim family members in propaganda, and comparable in that context to other prominent family members like Kim Il-sung's father Kim Hyong-jik, or great grandfather Kim Ung-u, who is claimed to have been involved in the General Sherman incident. North Korean propaganda insists that most family members were in some way participating in the foundation of the North Korean state and among them Kim Hyong-gwon is portrayed as having been sacrificed for anti-Japanese struggle and the revolution.\n\nKim Hyong-gwon was included into the personality cult in 1976. North Korean media uses similar honorifics for him as they use with Kim Il-sung, Kim Jong-il, Kim Jong-un and Kim Jong-suk.\n\nKimhyonggwon County, previously known as Pungsan, in southeastern Ryanggang Province, was renamed after him in August 1990. There is also a Kim Hyong Gwon Teachers' College named after him, and Hamnam University of Education Nr. 1 was renamed Kim Hyong Gwon University of Education in 1990. Both of them are in Sinpo. Various sites of honor and statues have been made in Kim's memory. Once every five years, a ceremony is held on the days of his death and birth.\n\nA North Korean film \"A Fire Burning All Over the World\" was made in 1977, and it deals with both Kang Pan-sok and Kim Hyong-gwon's revolutionary deeds. The film was also the first one to portray Il-sung.\n\n"}
{"id": "8030562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8030562", "title": "Lavrenti Son", "text": "Lavrenti Son\n\nLavrenti Dyadyunovich Son (, born February 2, 1941) is a Koryo-saram playwright, author of short stories, and founder of Song Cinema, a documentary company producing movies about the minority ethnicities of the former USSR. His play \"Memory\" (기억), about the deportation of Koreans in the Soviet Union, is one of the few plays to ever be written in Koryo-mar. It was first performed by the Korean Theatre of Kazakhstan in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "44768464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44768464", "title": "Lawrence C. Washington", "text": "Lawrence C. Washington\n\nLawrence Clinton Washington (born 1951, Vermont) is an American mathematician at the University of Maryland, who specializes in number theory.\n\nWashington studied at Johns Hopkins University, where in 1971 he received his B.A. and master's degree. In 1974 he earned his PhD at Princeton University under Kenkichi Iwasawa with thesis \"Class numbers and formula_1 extensions\". He then became an assistant professor at Stanford University and from 1977 at the University of Maryland, where he became in 1981 an associate professor and in 1986 a professor. He held visiting positions at several institutions, including IHES (1980/81), Max-Planck-Institut für Mathematik (1984), the Institute for Advanced Study (1996), and MSRI (1986/87), as well as at the University of Perugia, Nankai University and the State University of Campinas.\n\nWashington wrote a standard work on cyclotomic fields. He also worked on p-adic L-functions. He wrote a treatise with Allan Adler on their discovery of a connection between higher-dimensional analogues of magic squares and p-adic L-functions. Washington has done important work on Iwasawa theory, Cohen-Lenstra heuristics, and elliptic curves and their applications to cryptography.\n\nIn Iwasawa theory he proved with Bruce Ferrero in 1979 a conjecture of Kenkichi Iwasawa, that the formula_2-invariant vanishes for cyclotomic Z-extensions of abelian number fields (Theorem of Ferrero-Washington).\n\nMore recently, Washington has published on arithmetic dynamics, sums of powers of primes, and Iwasawa invariants of non-cyclotomic Z extensions as well as continued service to the mathematical community, including outreach at Montgomery Blair, a local high school. \n\nIn 1979–1981 he was a Sloan Fellow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58167856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58167856", "title": "Lawrence Kazibwe", "text": "Lawrence Kazibwe\n\nDr Lawrence Kazibwe is a consultant obstetrician and gynecologist in the Uganda Ministry of Health. He is the deputy executive director of Kawempe General Hospital, in Kawempe Division, in northern Kampala, the capital and largest of Uganda. He was appointed to that position on 9 August 2018.\n\nHe was born in the Buganda Region of Uganda. After attending local schools, he was admitted to Mbarara University of Science and Technology to study human medicine, graduating with a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) degree in 2006. In 2011, he was awarded a Master of Medicine (MMed) degree in Internal Medicine, also from Mbarara University.\n\nDr. Lawrence Kazibwe is a consultant, who was attached to Mulago National Referral Hospital, Uganda's top and largest tertiary referral hospital, with a 1,790-bed capacity, which also serves as the teaching hospital of Makerere University College of Health Sciences. Mulago National Referral Hospital is reported to have the busiest labor ward in the world, with over 30,000 live births annually, averaging 32,654 annually in the three years from 1 January 2011 until 31 December 2013. This is an average of approximately 90 deliveries every day, or 3.7 births per hour, including about 20 to 25 daily Caesarean sections.\n\nIn August 2018, Lawrence Kazibwe, MBChB, MMed (Obstetrics & Gynecology), was appointed deputy executive director of Kawempe General Hospital, a 200-bd facility, affiliated with Mulago Hospital. He will deputize Dr. Nehemiah Katusiime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43752033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43752033", "title": "Li Hu", "text": "Li Hu\n\nLi Hu (1974 – August 6, 2014) was a Chinese HIV/AIDS activist. He died from complications from AIDS at the age of 40.\n"}
{"id": "9294168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9294168", "title": "List of Mensans", "text": "List of Mensans\n\nThis list of Mensans contains notable members of Mensa International, the high IQ society, both current and past. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18185", "title": "List of deists", "text": "List of deists\n\nThis is a partial list of people who have been categorized as Deists, the belief in a deity based on natural religion only, or belief in religious truths discovered by people through a process of reasoning, independent of any revelation through scriptures or prophets. They have been selected for their influence on Deism, or for their fame in other areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2341279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2341279", "title": "Louisa Cranstoun Nisbett", "text": "Louisa Cranstoun Nisbett\n\nLouisa Cranstoun Nisbett (1812 – 15 January 1858), English actress, was the daughter of Frederick Hayes Macnamara, an actor, whose stage name was Mordaunt.\n\nAs Miss Mordaunt she had considerable experience, especially in Shakespearean leading parts, before her first London appearance in 1829 at Drury Lane as Widow Cheerly in Andrew Cherry's \"The Soldier's Daughter\". Her beauty and high spirits made her at once a popular favourite in a large number of comedy parts, until in 1831 she was married to Captain John Alexander Nisbett and retired. Her husband, however, was killed the same year by a fall from his horse, and she was compelled to reappear on the stage in 1832. She was the original Lady Gay Spanker of \"London Assurance\" (1841).\n\nIn 1844 she withdrew again from the stage to marry Sir William Boothby, Bart., but on his death (1846), returned to play many parts, including Lady Teazle, Portia, and three dramatic parts created by Knowles: Constantine in the \"Love Chase\" and Helen and Julia in the \"Hunchback\". It was as Lady Teazle that she made her final appearance in 1851.\n"}
{"id": "13975852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13975852", "title": "Marina Popovich", "text": "Marina Popovich\n\nMarina Lavrentievna Popovich (née Vasiliyeva; July 20, 1931 – November 30, 2017) was a Soviet Air Force colonel, engineer, and decorated Soviet test pilot. In 1964, she became the third woman and the first Soviet woman to break the sound barrier. Known as \"Madame MiG\", for her work in the Soviet fighter, she set more than one hundred aviation world records on over 40 types of aircraft over her career.\n\nMarina Vasilieva was born in 1931 in the Velizhsky District of Smolensk Oblast, but evacuated with her family to Novosibirsk during World War II.\n\nShe began learning to fly as a child but, following the war, the Soviet Union barred women from serving as military pilots. At the age of 16, presenting herself as 22 years old, she wrote to Soviet Marshal Kliment Voroshilov asking to be admitted to a flying school. Voroshilov intervened on her behalf and she was admitted to the Novosibirsk Aviation Technicum where she graduated in 1951.\n\nInitially, she worked as an engineer, then later as a flying instructor. In 1962, she entered into the first group of women that would train to become cosmonauts in the Soviet space program. After two months of training, she was turned away from the program. Her husband, Pavel Popovich, was admitted to the program, becoming the eighth person in space aboard Vostok 4 in 1962.\n\nShe became a Soviet Air Force pilot in 1963, and in 1964 was admitted as a military test-pilot. Later that year, she broke the sound barrier in a MiG 21. She entered the military reserves in 1978 and then joined the Antonov Design Bureau as a test pilot. At Antonov, she set ten flight records on the Antonov An-22 turboprop. She retired in 1984.\n\nShe authored nine books and two screenplays. A star in the Cancer constellation bears her name.\n\nMarina Popovich, a Russian Writers' Union member, authored nine books, including the poetry collection \"Zhizn – vechny vzlyot\" (Life's An Eternal Rise, 1972). She was a co-author of two film scripts, \"Nebo So Mnoy\" (Sky Is With Me, 1974) and \"Buket Fialok\" (Bouquet of Violets, 1983).\n\nPopovich died on November 30, 2017. She was buried with military honors at the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery.\n\nMarina Popovich spoke about her experience with UFOs in her book titled \"UFO Glasnost\" (published in 2003 in Germany) and in public lectures and interviews. She claimed that the Soviet military and civilian pilots had confirmed 3000 UFO sightings and that the Soviet Air Force and KGB had recovered fragments of five crashed UFOs. The crash sites were Tunguska (1908), Novosibirsk, Tallinn, Ordzhonikidze and Dalnegorsk (1986).\n\nMarina Popovich's first husband was Pavel Popovich, a former Soviet cosmonaut, with whom she had two daughters, Natalya (b. 1956) and Oksana (b. 1968), both Moscow State Institute of International Relations graduates. She had two granddaughters, Tatyana and Alexandra, and grandson Michael, the latter born in England. Her second husband was Boris Alexandrovich Zhikhorev, a retired Russian Airforce Major general, Deputy chairman of the Central Committee of the Union of the Soviet Officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6969878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6969878", "title": "Marlon Green", "text": "Marlon Green\n\nMarlon Dewitt Green (June 6, 1929 – July 6, 2009) was an African-American pilot whose landmark United States Supreme Court decision in 1963 helped dismantle racial discrimination in the American passenger airline industry, leading to David Harris' hiring as the first African-American pilot for a major airline the following year. Green was subsequently hired by Continental Airlines, for whom he flew from 1965 to 1978.\n\nMarlon Green was born in El Dorado, Arkansas. His father, Mickinley Green, was born in 1900, and married Green's future mother, Lucy, on April 10, 1921. Green's brother Rudolph Valentino Green was born in 1928, followed by Marlon (June 6, 1929); Jean Evelyn (1933); James Zell (1936); and Allen David (1941).\n\nIn 1936 or 1937, the family moved to Lansing, Michigan, where he found work at the Drop Forge Company. He later joined the household staff of dentist J. Shelton Rushing as what his son called the major domo.\n\nMarlon Green joined the United States Air Force, where his last posting was flying the SA-16 Albatross with the 36th Air Rescue Squadron at Johnson Air Base in Tokyo, Japan. While on leave in 1957, he applied for a pilot position with Continental Airlines, and was invited to be interviewed after having left blank the racial-identity question on the application. He also omitted pasting into the small square block provided in the upper right hand corner of the first page of the application, a picture of himself, Five other white applicants, less qualified, were hired. Per varying sources, he either was rejected then, or was hired as what would have been the nation's first African-American pilot for a major commercial airline, but was rejected after reporting for orientation. On April 22, 1963, following oral arguments on March 28, 1963, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"Colorado Anti-Discrimination Commission v. Continental Airlines, Inc. 372 U.S. 714 no. 146\" that Green had been unlawfully discriminated against. In 1964, American Airlines hired David Harris as the first African-American pilot for major US passenger airline. Following his Supreme Court victory, Green flew for Continental from 1965 to 1978, initially piloting Vickers Viscounts out of Denver. He became a captain in 1966.\n\nGreen died aged 80 in Denver, Colorado. He was divorced and is survived by his three daughters and three sons. On February 16, 2010, at George Bush Intercontinental Airport in Houston, Texas, Continental Airlines named a Boeing 737-824 (N77518, cn 31605)> after him.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Green was inducted into the Arkansas Aviation Hall of Fame.\n\n\"Note\"\n"}
{"id": "37503166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37503166", "title": "Milonguero", "text": "Milonguero\n\nA milonguero is a person who spends time dancing social tango. The word comes from the term \"milonga\" referring to a tango dance event.\n\nThe term was used from the 1870s to mark a man who spent much of his time dancing tango of any style. Since the early 20th century the term referred to a man immersed in the tango culture specific to Buenos Aires. A milonguero frequented dance halls, dancing to the music of tango, milonga and vals. Such a man was \"raised and groomed on tango\" and his \"reverence for the dance and its traditions\" strongly influenced the way he danced. The term \"milonguero\" was used by \"others\" to distinguish a skilled and courteous dancer, not a term for oneself. After the 1955 coup ousted Juan Perón in Argentina, the tango was repressed, a sort of \"dark age\" for tango dancing, ending in 1983.\n\nUntil the beginning of the 1980s \"milonguero\" also had a strong negative connotation, signaling a womanizer who typically had no job. Such womanizers would typically visit downtown milongas and cafes where anonymity was more prevalent than in the clubs of the barrios; the crowded circumstances and the greater intimacy allowed by the greater anonymity fostered a close-embrace style dancing, which was the motivation of Susana Miller to use the term \"milonguero\" to denote the close embrace style dancing prevalent in downtown milongas.\n\nThe term \"milonguero\" changed to mean one who had been a frequent dancer during tango's Golden Age of the 1930s and '40s and it also lost its negative connotations. Due to the loss of the negative connotations there are more dancers who would nowadays be considered \"milongueros\" - such as many respected and skillful salon style dancers of the barrios - and hence the identification of the dance of \"milongueros\" with \"milonguero-style tango\" is no longer apt. \n\nThough there are many individual differences between men, milongueros generally dress conservatively, wearing a sport coat or suit, dress shirt and often a tie. They do not attempt to converse with their partner during a song. They are keenly aware of others on the dance floor and they maintain the \"line of dance\", a stately progression of all the couples moving counter-clockwise around the dance floor. The milonguero does not bump into or kick other dancers; he employs mostly circular movements to keep an inward focus for himself and his partner, and to allow for small adornments made with the foot. Above all, he interprets the mood of the music with his dancing. He cherishes each musical pause as it comes, and he executes movements that coincide with musical phrases.\n\nThe milonguero generally selects skillful partners to maintain his reputation. He makes certain to lead his partner into movements that will show her in the best light; he does not show off his own skill to the detriment of his partner. He knows that if he makes the woman look good dancing then he looks good dancing.\n\nHe dances to songs from his favorite artists, sitting out the others. Many milongueros prefer music of the Golden Age, especially the marked rhythmic music of Juan D'Arienzo, the older rhythmic pulses of Francisco Lomuto, or the sweeping orchestrations of Carlos di Sarli. Many milongueros will not dance to a song sung by a female vocalist or—out of great respect—a song sung by Carlos Gardel. Some take this preference further and will not dance to any song containing lyrics. Modern tangos such as those by Astor Piazzolla are generally avoided; the transitional later tangos of Osvaldo Pugliese, with their emphasis on tempo changes, are shunned by many but particularly favored by others. Recordings produced before 1983 are preferred. Popular tango tunes from the Golden Age never fade for the milonguero: veteran dancer José \"Poroto\" Oviedo told his friends to \"play di Sarli at my wake\", a request that was honored at his death in April 2000, the romantic di Sarli song \"Bahía Blanca\" chosen for the occasion.\n\nIn modern times, the feminine form \"milonguera\" has been used to refer to a woman who is an avid tango dancer, one who goes out dancing as much as possible. Other similar terms are \"tanguero\" for a man and \"tanguera\" for a woman.\n"}
{"id": "48261843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48261843", "title": "Mimi Soltysik", "text": "Mimi Soltysik\n\nEmidio \"Mimi\" Soltysik (born October 30, 1974) is an American democratic socialist political activist for the Socialist Party USA. He was the party's nominee for President of the United States in the 2016 election.\n\nFrom October 2013 to October 2015, Soltysik served as National Co-Chair of the Socialist Party USA. Prior to that, he served as National Vice Chair from 2011 to 2013. Soltysik also served as State Chair of the Socialist Party of California from its chartering in 2011 to 2017.\n\nSoltysik graduated from Troy University and went on to study for an MPA degree at California State University, Northridge.\n\nSoltysik was elected as the male co-chair of the Socialist Party USA for the 2013-2015 term at the party's 2013 national convention. He is also the chair of the Socialist Party of California.\n\nIn 2014, Soltysik was one of eight candidates in the primary for California's 62nd State Assembly district. Under California's nonpartisan blanket primary system, the top two candidates from the primary, regardless of party, advance to the general election. Soltysik finished in 7th place with 2.5% of the vote.\n\nIn October 2015, Soltysik filed a Federal lawsuit against the California Secretary of State because he had been required to list \"Party Preference: None\" on the 2014 primary ballot; the California election law allows candidates to list only a party preference of a qualified party or \"None\" on the ballot, and the Socialist Party was not a qualified party in California.\n\nOn October 17, 2015, the Socialist Party USA's national convention nominated Soltysik for president and Angela Nicole Walker for vice president. The party did not have automatic ballot access in any state.\n\nSoltysik has been interviewed about socialist issues by web sites including MTV Hive and Bloomberg Politics.\n\nSoltysik has been interviewed regarding his presidential bid in a number of outlets, including the Independent Voter Network, The North Star and the Hampton Institute.\n\nIn April 2016, Soltysik was interviewed on CNBC regarding growing support for socialism in the United States.\n\nThe Soltysik/Walker ticket received 2,704 total votes including write-ins. He also won 4.2% of the vote in Guam, though Guam has no representation in the Electoral College.\n\n"}
{"id": "3930569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3930569", "title": "Monckton Synnot", "text": "Monckton Synnot\n\nMonckton Synnot (1827-1879) was a prominent squatter in Victoria, Australia, the sixth son of Captain Walter Synnot and his second wife Elizabeth, \"née\" Houston, and the grandson of Sir Walter Synnot, of Ballymoyer, County Armagh. \n\nBorn at the family seat of Ballymoyer, Synnot settled in the colonies in 1836 with his father Captain Walter Synnot and brothers. A year later two elder sons crossed to Port Phillip, followed in 1838 by the next two, Albert and the 12-year-old Monckton. They brought sheep with them and became pioneer landholders at Little River near Geelong, where they remained in various partnerships for about ten years. \n\nBy 1852 they had scattered and Monckton, after a brief sortie with Albert to the Californian and Victorian goldfields, was the only one left in the Little River district, as sole owner of the 26,500-acre (10,724 ha) Mowyong, later called Bareacres. In 1852 he assisted in the rescue of the survivors of the flood at the Wedge’s Werribee Station and rescued the granddaughter Annie Emily Lawrence (daughter of Robert William Lawrence and Anne Wedge). On 25 February 1853 at St Kilda, Melbourne, he married Annie Emily Lawrence. He later bought the South Brighton sheep station in the Wimmera where, in 1862, he was a member of the first Horsham District Roads Board, and a councillor in 1862-63.\n\nThe prize-winning superfine merino wools of the Western District had been extolled by the Thomas Shaws, C. H. MacKnight, J. L. Currie and others, but in the mid-1860s Synnot's letters to the papers queried their real value and gave rise to a drawn-out and sometimes bitter battle of words. Selling South Brighton in 1868, he bought the large Terrick Terrick station near the Murray River, and for a few years had some share with his brothers Albert, George and Nugent in Gunbar and Cowl Cowl in the Riverina. In 1873 he moved to Melbourne, living in \"Ballyreen\", a mansion on Brighton Road, St Kilda. He bought large central city premises from the merchants and flour-millers, William Degraves & Co., and set up the Flinders Wool Warehouse in Flinders Lane: in this he followed the lead of his elder brother George who, opening in Geelong as a stock and station agent, had held one of the first auction sales of wool there in November 1858.\n\nSynnot entered Melbourne wool-broking in prosperous and expansive times, when many firms were offering warehouse services, selling wool by auction or privately, or arranging and often financing its shipping for sale overseas. A pioneer of the wool trade with the East, he visited China, sent a consignment of woollen yarns to Hong Kong and arranged for silk and cotton weavers at Ning-Po to produce samples of woollen cloth, which were exhibited throughout Australia and New Zealand and at the Paris Exhibition of 1878. His efforts failed at first, but later that year when the first Japanese Trade Commission visited Australia his ideas bore some fruit.\n\nSynnot died on 23 April 1879 at Elsternwick, aged 52, and was buried in St Kilda general cemetery. The eldest of his seven sons, Monckton Davey Synnot, and three of the younger ones carried on as wool-brokers. Both fathers and his son, Monckton, were tall, handsome, genial and convivial, with the Irish tendency to enjoy a brisk argument, but the senior Monckton was the only one to take any part in public affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "9380431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9380431", "title": "Mourad Ikhlef", "text": "Mourad Ikhlef\n\nMourad Ikhlef arrived Canada in 1993, and obtained refugee status in 1994. Based on allegations of past involvement with the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) of his native Algeria, as well as a connection to Ahmed Ressam a security certificate was issued in 2001, and on December 12 he was arrested in his home city of Montreal, Quebec. He was deported to Algeria on February 28, 2003.\n\nIn 1994, Ikhlef's brother Nabil also sought entry to Canada as a refugee, but was declined. Nevertheless, he was granted permanent resident status, and the two brothers would often meet with Ahmed Ressam, Fateh Kamal and other local Algerians to have coffee and watch television. His brother claims to have travelled to Naples, Italy alone - where Il Matino magazine published an article stating that both he and Ikhlef were in the country, and al-Qaeda agents.\n\nFollowing his departure, Algeria tried Ikhlef \"in absentia\" and sentenced him to death for involvement in \"terrorism-related activities\", which they alleged included travelling to Bosnia and Afghanistan to participate in jihad, and training in weapons and explosives, with both al-Qaeda and the Groupe Islamique Armee. Ikhlef denied all the charges to Canadian officials, arguing that the GIA didn't even exist when he left Algeria.\n\nHis deportation was carried out by Canadian immigration officials, in a private plane due to the perceived security concerns. Upon arrival Ikhlef was transferred to the control of Algerian military police, the DRS, and immediately put in detention. He was held for 10 days, during which time his family was unable to obtain his whereabouts. On March 10 he was taken to court to face three separate charges, but was denied legal counsel.\n\nWhile acquitted on one count he was sentenced to 7 years, in 2005, based on \"membership in a terrorist group.\" The evidence for this charge was believed to have been based on statements made by the accused while under duress.\n\nIkhlef was released from prison on March 26, 2006 as part of a national reconciliation program, the controversial Charter for Peace and National Reconciliation, but re-arrested one week later by DRS officials.\n"}
{"id": "49979037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49979037", "title": "Neal Hazel", "text": "Neal Hazel\n\nNeal Hazel is a British criminologist and social policy analyst who is best known for his research on youth justice and on family support. He is Professor of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Salford and is the former Her Majesty's Deputy Chief Inspector of Probation for England and Wales.\n\nHazel completed his undergraduate degree, MSc in Applied Social Research and PhD in Social Policy at the University of Stirling. After his doctorate, he was Research Fellow and Senior Research Fellow at the Policy Research Bureau, London. He joined the University of Salford in 2003 as a Lecturer and then Senior Lecturer in Criminology, and now holds a Personal chair in the School of Health and Society. He was the inaugural Director of both the Institute for Public Policy (2013–14) and the Centre for Social Research (2010–14) at the University of Salford. He has directed more than 25 funded research projects, including several national evaluations of criminal justice interventions.\n\nHazel published the first national study of the impact of poverty and disadvantage on parenting in Britain. Reported in the book \"Parenting in Poor Environments\" (2002, with Deborah Ghate), the study of coping and support for families living in poverty was described by Bob Holman in the \"British Journal of Social Work\" as \"an important study which lifts the curtain on if and how poor parents cope in deprived areas\". \"Community Care\" stated that its \"crucial findings\" formed \"an emphatic message to practitioners\" to ensure more evidence-based support.\n\nHe also conducted the United Kingdom's first national study of parental discipline. Its findings led to a national campaign by the NSPCC in 2005 against the physical punishment of children.\n\nHazel’s book on \"Engaging Fathers in Preventive Services\" (2000, with Debrorah Ghate and Catherine Shaw) introduced the concept of “gender differentiated” parenting support. The research challenged existing feminised family services by showing the importance of catering to the particular needs and experiences of men in order to engage them. This approach has since been adopted as a standard requirement of family services by policy makers in Great Britain.\n\nHazel conducted the first study of young offenders' views of their experiences throughout the criminal justice system in England. He also produced the official government evaluation of the main youth custodial sentence in England and Wales (the Detention and Training Order) and several evaluations of government schemes for resettlement (reentry) after prison. His 2001 article revealing common patterns behind the rise and fall of types of youth custodial institutions (with Ann Hagell) is listed by \"Youth Justice (journal)\" as both one of its most cited and most read articles.\n\nHazel's cross-national analysis of youth justice systems (2008) is used as the basis of international comparisons in Ministry of Justice official youth justice statistics. It was also used and credited in the 2013 documentary film, Kids for Cash.\n\nHis framework and five principles for effective reentry support for juvenile offenders (2017) were described by the Youth Justice Minister as \"a gold standard for resettlement planning\". They have since been adopted by the Ministry of Justice, HM Prison and Probation Service and Youth Justice Board as a common policy approach to reform youth detention across England and Wales, called \"Constructive Resettlement\". His other publications from the same research programme (Beyond Youth Custody) with Nacro include a report revealing psychological suffering by young people after release from custody (2015), a new model for how to address the specific needs of girls and young women leaving prison (2014), and guidance on ensuring better engagement from young offenders (2013).\n\nIn 2013, Hazel was appointed as an advisor to the HM Inspectorate of Probation (HMIP) for inspection of services across England and Wales for youth reentry after detention.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2015, he served in the newly created role of Her Majesty's Deputy Chief Inspector of Probation for England and Wales, responsible for strategy at HMIP. During his time at HMIP, he designed a method of inspecting criminal justice agencies that focused on evaluating whether and how services were impacting on offenders, rather than the previous practice of auditing services' processes. He also introduced the strategic aim for HMIP to improve the wellbeing of children at risk of reoffending, and a peer review system to check the quality of inspection reports.\n\nIn January 2018, he was appointed by the Secretary of State for Justice to sit on the Youth Justice Board (YJB), responsible for overseeing the youth justice system in England and Wales. He was previously a member of the YJB's Expert Advisory Board for developing government policy on youth reentry after detention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24591879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24591879", "title": "Nick Groff", "text": "Nick Groff\n\nNicholas Groff (born April 19, 1980) is an American paranormal investigator, musician, and television personality. Groff is currently the lead investigator for the television series \"Paranormal Lockdown\" and the \"Ghosts of Shepherdstown\". He was a co-investigator and executive producer of \"Ghost Adventures\", as well as an editor and cameraman for the show from seasons 1–10. Groff was an executive producer for a show on the Travel Channel called \"Vegas Stripped\", a behind-the-scenes look at the operations of the South Point Hotel, Casino & Spa in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nGroff was born April 19, 1980 in San Jose, California, and grew up in Nashua, New Hampshire. He graduated from Pelham High School in New Hampshire and later studied film at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, where he met Aaron Goodwin. At the age of eight he fell out of a tree in the yard of his family's home in Salem, New Hampshire, which Groff described as \"a near-death experience\".\n\nTwo years later, while at home alone, he says he saw a ghostly figure of a black man. In a 2012 interview, Groff questioned, \"Was it my imagination? Or was it something from my accident that made me more open to their world?\"\n\nGroff befriended Bagans during his wedding in Las Vegas. Groff claims he was possessed by an entity at the Moon River Brewing Company in Savannah, Georgia and says it was one of his \"most life-changing experiences\". According to Groff, an encounter with a female spirit at the Linda Vista Community Hospital in East Los Angeles, California gave him insights into life after death. Groff was allegedly possessed in Natchez, Mississippi during the investigation of King's Tavern.\n\nIn 2004, Groff teamed up with Zak Bagans and Aaron Goodwin to produce a documentary-style film called \"Ghost Adventures\". On November 24, 2014, Groff announced that he would not be returning to \"Ghost Adventures\" for the upcoming season.\n\nGroff has since produced his own series titled \"Ghost Stalkers\", and is currently starring in another show of his \"Paranormal Lockdown\", where he is the lead investigator. He also hosts the \"Ghosts of Shepherdstown\" series on Destination America; the first season in 2016, and the second in 2017. Groff released two albums titled \"The Other Side\" and \"Spiritual War\".The lyrics recall Groff's spiritual journey. He also has a clothing line named \"Phantom Collection\".\n\nGroff married his wife Veronique, in 2004, and the couple reside outside Boston, Massachusetts with their two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "28883229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28883229", "title": "Ondrej Rigo", "text": "Ondrej Rigo\n\nOndrej Rigo (born 17 December 1955) is a Slovak serial killer and necrophile who targeted women in Bratislava, Munich and Amsterdam from 1990 to 1992. Currently serving a life sentence for nine murders and one attempted murder in Leopoldov Prison in Slovakia, Rigo is a schizoid personality disorder sufferer and an antisocial psychopath while also being a necrophile, finding pleasure in having intercourse with women with mutilated heads. Rigo remains the Slovak murderer with the highest number of victims and he is also the most prolific serial killer in modern Slovak history. He is eligible to apply for parole in 2019.\n\nOndrej Rigo has a brother, living in Germany, and a daughter. According to an article in Slovak newspaper \"SME\" Rigo is of Roma ethnicity. Even as an adult, Rigo was a short man. When he was 14 he was taken into a youth corrective institution and later into an orphanage together with his siblings. They stayed there for a year, having been taken from their mother after their father's arrest. Rigo's mother died in 2000 after being hit by a car. Learning of her death is the one time he remembers crying in his life. His father died during a burglary. Rigo claims he liked both parents.\n\nHe was married two times. His first marriage was during military service (compulsory in Czechoslovakia at that time), but \"when we returned to Bratislava she started to become jealous. You know, an Easterner (\"note: meaning from Eastern Slovakia, a culturally and linguistically distinct region of the country\"), so she returned to Poprad. I went with her to say goodbye at the station,\" recalls Rigo. Little is known about his second marriage. The woman he was with in the movie theatre on the night of his last murder is being referred to as his \"partner\".\n\nIn Bratislava, Rigo worked in Hotel Carlton, where he was arrested. Before that he worked as a fireman in a heater room in Pravda newspaper and in a hospital on Bezručova street and a hospital on Šulekova street, having also completed his gasman certificate (\"plynárske skúšky\" in Slovak).\n\nBefore his first murder, Rigo had already been convicted of crimes 11 times. He was a criminal from an early age, focusing mainly on home burglaries. The last time he was in police custody in Slovakia (at that time Czechoslovakia) was from September 28, 1989 to December 9, 1989 because of unauthorised leaving of the Republic.\n\nAfter the fall of the Iron Curtain and end of communism in Czechoslovakia, people were allowed once again to travel freely in Europe and Rigo continued with his crimes abroad. On December 9, 1989, the same day he was released from prison, and a mere three weeks after the start of the Velvet Revolution, he traveled to Vienna without any valid passport. There, he acquired a fake Yugoslavian passport in the name of \"Nedo Ikic\". Later, he traveled to West Germany to meet his brother. In Bavaria he asked for asylum using his fake passport. He was, however, sentenced by the German authorities to two months in prison for forging documents. He spent his sentence in a prison in Bad Reichenhall. After his release from prison, Rigo escaped from a refugee camp and traveled to Munich where he continued his burglaries and started his killing spree.\n\nAn important factor in Ondrej Rigo's conviction was his consistent modus operandi:\n\nAfter arriving at Munich, Rigo murdered twice in three months. His first victim, Helena S. (40), probably surprised Rigo while he was burglarizing her apartment. \"He killed her and got aroused sexually,\" recalls Anton Heretik, author of Rigo's psychological evaluation during investigation. On the night from June 7 to June 8, 1990, he sneaked through a partially open window into the ground floor bedroom of Helena S. at an unspecified location in Munich. Rigo smashed her head with a 2.5 kilogram metal pipe, wrapped the upper part of her body in a blanket and copulated with her. Before leaving he stole some easy to carry valuables according to some sources, while according to others he stole nothing at all. He disposed of the murder weapon directly beneath the bedroom window.\n\nOn the night between 31 July and 1 August 1 1990, Rigo sneaked through the partially open balcony door and into the Munich apartment of Ilke Z., 28, murdering her, again using a metal pipe. Rigo stabbed her in the neck with a screwdriver, most probably during the act of copulation. He performed both vaginal and anal intercourse with her. Afterwards, he covered up the body and searched the house for valuables, finding a golden necklace and an unknown amount of German marks, which he stole. The murder weapon and a man's sock was later found by the German police at the crime scene.\n\nIn October, Rigo left Munich for Amsterdam to visit his sister Helena. Maria van der W. (58) was a woman living alone in Amsterdam with cats. During the night of September 27, 1990, Rigo sneaked into her ground floor apartment through a partially open balcony window and killed her with a stone weighing over 5.5 kilograms (probably a pavement cobblestone). He stripped the body naked and copulated with it. Again he robbed his victim, stealing a camera, a women's wristwatch, two boxes containing coins and some other valuables. In the kitchen, he found a bottle of slivovica and drank it. Later in court, one of the witnesses would testify that Rigo had a liking for this particular drink.\n\nRigo left for Bratislava, Slovakia the day following the murder. His killings continued with the murder of Terézia R. (88) inside a retirement home in Bratislava, on October 6, 1990. He murdered her with his fist while she was sleeping. The retirement home reported prayer books, rosary and 4000 Slovak Crowns as missing. Underneath the balcony, the police found some Dutch coins and cigarette butts with Rigo's biological material on them.\nOn January 3, 1991, early in the morning, the bodies of Anna P. (40) and her son Juraj N. (14-16 depends on the source) were found inside a ground floor flat in a dormitory, at an unspecified location in Bratislava. Rigo entered the apartment through a window around midnight. The son was sleeping beside his mother when Rigo crushed their heads with a wooden stick. Anna P. tried to protect her son. Afterwards, Rigo copulated with her body. Anna P., who emigrated to Switzerland in 1982 with her son and husband, was in Bratislava with her son just for a few days for New Year's.\n\nJana B. (31) became the first person to survive Rigo's attack on January 9, 1991, when she managed to fight him off after being attacked in her probably first-floor Bratislava apartment on Kutuzovova street. Her quick decision to fight coupled with a poor weapon choice on Rigo's part allowed her to come out of the confrontation only with some wounds. Rigo gained access through a ventilation window above the door. After the unsuccessful attack, he quickly fled the apartment. Jana B. noticed that Rigo's light-blue pants were hand-sewn in the crotch area which later helped in identifying him. The police indeed found such pants in his closet. The same night before this attack, Rigo entered through another window in the neighborhood, but it led only into a small locked storage room.\n\nThree weeks after his last kill and two weeks after the attack on Jana B., at an unspecified date, he murdered Helena N. (79) near Záhradnícka street in Bratislava. This was on the same street as the last murder scene according to some sources, or very near the last murder scene, according to others. Rigo removed a net from the kitchen window of this ground floor apartment, killing Helena N. with a piece of concrete.\nHenrieta O. (22) was attacked on July 14, 1991. Rigo gained access to her Bratislava apartment through the window, which she probably left open because it was a hot summer. She was playing on her guitar late into the night. Rigo smashed her head, raped her and robbed her, leaving her for dead. Henrieta O. however survived the attack but died 18 days later. Together with Henrieta O. there was also her grandmother sleeping in another room of the apartment. She was practically deaf and didn't hear Rigo raping her fatally injured granddaughter.\n\nThe last victim, Matilda U. (67), was murdered on March 4, 1992, in the center of Bratislava in a porch house in Obchodná street. That night, Rigo was in movie theater Dukla (today known as YMCA) on Šancová street together with his girlfriend. They were returning home together when he suddenly told her that he had to take care of something and got off the trolleybus. He didn't come home until morning.\n\nAccording to an article in Časopis Šarm, there is another unnamed victim from Bratislava, killed with a knife, which was never proved to Rigo. The victim was a woman found in the morning by her son sleeping in his child's room. The murder is considered unsolved as of 2008.\n\nRigo gave some of the items he stole from his victims to his unnamed daughter.\n\nOndrej Rigo was arrested by the Slovak criminal police on March 4, 1992, only hours after his last murder. He was arrested by Vachálek and probably some other policemen in Hotel Carlton on Hviezdoslavovo Square in Bratislava, where he was employed as a cloakroom attendant. At the time of his arrest he was still without his socks on, which he used in the attack.\n\nLater, he would claim that the blood on him was syrup and that his sperm found on the victims was arranged by a prostitute from an erotic club. He explained his footprints beneath the balconies and cigarette butts by claiming he was there by chance and had to pee or that he was curious and took a look through some windows. He explained his possession of jewelry by saying that women often gave him gifts.\n\nJana B., the only survivor of his crimes, clearly saw Rigo's face because inside the apartment where she fought with Rigo, there was some light from a streetlight outside. She would later actually attend his trial wearing a wig to remain unnoticed. The criminal police of Germany, Netherlands and Czechoslovakia investigated Rigo's murders separately. It was only after his arrest that they started cooperating on the case.\n\nOndrej Rigo was sentenced on December 7, 1994 by the City court of Bratislava after a trial that lasted 10 days. A senate headed by Peter Šamko sentenced him to life imprisonment in the \"third class\", which means highest security prison in Slovakia. When details of his crimes were read to him in court, Rigo did not react in any way. He was sitting rigidly and leaning a bit forward, his face showing no emotion throughout the trial. \nHis file consisted of 5500 pages.\n\nAs explained by Šamko, the sentence was chosen based on directly or indirectly proven nine murders, based on especially brutal way in which he committed the murders and based on the fact that possibilities of his resocialization are quite limited and the prognosis is bad. There was also DNA evidence presented to the court consisting of blood analysis and analysis of semen from the victims' vaginas, as well as testimonies of 194 witnesses (including witnesses from Germany and Netherlands).\n\nRigo never pleaded guilty to any of the murders and he does not feel guilty.\n\nRigo has appealed the first-order court's sentence. In his appeal, he claims he is innocent, without giving any kind of proof.\n\nRigo's appeal process at the Supreme Court of Slovakia started on February 27, 1996. During his finishing speech, the representative of the General Prosecutor Office of Slovakia Ivan Segeš proposed to confirm the life imprisonment sentence because Rigo's guilt has been proven once again in the appeal process. On February 28, 1996 the senate of the Highest Court of Slovak Republic denied Rigo's appeal and confirmed his sentence. There is no other appeal possible.\n\nAfter serving several years in Ilava prison, Rigo was transferred to Leopoldov Prison.\n\nAccording to court appointed psychologist Anton Heretik, author of Rigo's psychological profile during the trial, Rigo is a psychopath. \"He does not accept any social norms, he is lacking empathy and behaves very impulsively. At the same time he is a schizoid personality, unable to create relationships with others. He has strange thoughts and hobbies, he is a loner. He is a combination of schizoid and antisocial psychopath, creating a very dangerous type of criminal\", claims Heretik.\n\nAccording to his psychological profile, the strangeness, lack of hospitality and language barrier in a foreign country could have influenced his later behavior. Rigo was found by the psychologists to not be a sadist.\n\nAccording to Rigo's investigator Jozef Vachálek, \"(he) had low IQ and seldom talked\".\n\nWhile incarcerated in Ilava prison, Rigo behaved according to the norms most of the time, but according to pedagogist Daniel Blaško from Ilava prison, he would \"often react too aggressively\". \"Chances for his correction are zero\", says Blaško. According to him, it was difficult to communicate with Rigo, because he seldom said a coherent sentence.\n\nThe Slovak artist Jana B. is the only person to survive an attack by Rigo. She attended karate classes for several years. Jana B. was attacked around 2:30 in the night while sleeping in her apartment on Kutuzovova street in Bratislava's third district on January 9, 1991. She returned home an hour after midnight and went to sleep. Rigo gained access to the apartment via a ventilation window above the door. A ladder was found leaning against the \"pavlač\".\n\n\"I was woken up by a hit to the head and I saw a man standing by my bed. At first I thought I'm dreaming, because I was living alone but when I received another hit to the head I woke up and the wooden shaft from a hoe Rigo stole outside, on the building's yard, broke, because it was moldy,\" she recalls. Jana B. jumped from her bed and started defending herself immediately with the broken piece of wood. When Rigo walked to the door, unlocking it from inside, she threw a chair at him. In the kitchen, he wrestled Jana B. onto a hot gas oven. \"The skin on my legs and stomach started to burn\", she recalls. They fell on the ground wrestling, then Rigo stood up and started punching her to the head. At this moment Jana B. grabbed him by his genitals and squeezed them. \"He was just trying to gouge out my eye\", she remembers. She doesn't remember whether Rigo screamed or not, but the rest of the fight before was silent. He then quickly fled the apartment while Jana B. alarmed the neighbor by banging on the wall, instructing him to call the police. Another neighbor, woken up by her son who was alarmed by the noise, found Jana B in shock and savagely beaten.\n\nThe neighbor told the police he heard some weird noises but he thought Jana B. was probably framing pictures in the middle of the night. After the attack, her wounds required several weeks to heal. According to Jana B.'s mother, the worst thing was that Rigo was caught over a year after the attack on her daughter, all the time knowing he might come back to finish the job. Years later, Jana B. claims she has no psychological trauma from the attack and she is not interested in Rigo.\n\nJana B. never moved from the flat she was attacked in and as of 2008 she continues to live there. Other sources claim she bought a dog and had to have lights on during the night for seven years after the attack, afterwards finally moving out from the apartment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1146973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146973", "title": "Patriot (American Revolution)", "text": "Patriot (American Revolution)\n\nPatriots (also known as Revolutionaries, Continentals, Rebels, or American Whigs) were those colonists of the Thirteen Colonies who rejected British rule during the American Revolution and declared the United States of America as an independent nation in July 1776. Their decision was based on the political philosophy of republicanism as expressed by spokesmen such as Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and Thomas Paine. They were opposed by the Loyalists who supported continued British rule.\n\nPatriots represented the spectrum of social, economic, and ethnic backgrounds. They included lawyers such as John Adams, students such as Alexander Hamilton, planters such as Thomas Jefferson and George Mason, merchants such as Alexander McDougall and John Hancock, and farmers such as Daniel Shays and Joseph Plumb Martin. They also included slaves and freemen such as Crispus Attucks, the first martyr of the American Revolution; James Armistead Lafayette, who served as a double agent for the Continental Army; and Jack Sisson, leader of the first successful black operation mission in American history under the command of Colonel William Barton, resulting in the capture of British General Richard Prescott.\n\nThe critics of British rule called themselves \"Whigs\" after 1768, identifying with members of the British Whig party who favored similar colonial policies. In Britain at the time, the word \"patriot\" had a negative connotation and was used as a negative epithet for \"a factious disturber of the government\", according to Samuel Johnson.\n\nPrior to the Revolution, colonists who supported British authority called themselves \"Tories\" or \"royalists\", identifying with the political philosophy of traditionalist conservatism dominant in Great Britain. During the Revolution, these persons became known primarily as \"Loyalists\". Afterward, many emigrated north to the remaining British territories in Canada. There they called themselves the United Empire Loyalists.\n\nMany Patriots were active before 1775 in groups such as the Sons of Liberty, and the most prominent leaders are referred to today by Americans as the Founding Fathers. They represented a cross-section of the population of the Thirteen Colonies and came from many different backgrounds. According to Robert Calhoon, between 40 and 45 percent of the white population in the Thirteen Colonies supported the Patriots' cause, between 15 and 20 percent supported the Loyalists, and the remainder were neutral or kept a low profile. The great majority of the Loyalists remained in America, while the minority went to Canada, Britain, Florida, or the West Indies.\n\nHistorians have explored the motivations that pulled men to one side or the other. Yale historian Leonard Woods Labaree used the published and unpublished writings and letters of leading men on each side, searching for how personality shaped their choice. He finds eight characteristics that differentiated the two groups. Loyalists were older, better established, and more likely to resist innovation than the Patriots. Loyalists felt that the Crown was the legitimate government and resistance to it was morally wrong, while the Patriots felt that morality was on their side because the British government had violated the constitutional rights of Englishmen. Men who were alienated by physical attacks on Royal officials took the Loyalist position, while those who were offended by heavy-handed British rule became Patriots. Merchants in the port cities with long-standing financial attachments to the British Empire were likely to remain loyal to the system, while few Patriots were so deeply enmeshed in the system. Some Loyalists, according to Labaree, were \"procrastinators\" who believed that independence was bound to come some day, but wanted to \"postpone the moment\", while the Patriots wanted to \"seize the moment\". Loyalists were cautious and afraid of anarchy or tyranny that might come from mob rule; Patriots made a systematic effort to take a stand against the British. Finally, Labaree argues that Loyalists were pessimists who lacked the Patriots' confidence that independence lay ahead.\n\nThe Patriots rejected taxes imposed by legislatures in which the taxpayer was not represented. \"No taxation without representation\" was their slogan, referring to the lack of representation in the British Parliament. The British countered that there was \"virtual representation\" in the sense that all members of Parliament represented the interests of all the citizens of the British Empire. Some Patriots declared that they were loyal to the king, but they insisted that they should be free to run their own affairs. In fact, they had been running their own affairs since the period of \"salutary neglect\" before the French and Indian War. Some radical Patriots tarred and feathered tax collectors and customs officers, making those positions dangerous; according to Benjamin Irvin, the practice was especially prevalent in Boston where many Patriots lived.\n\nMost of the individuals listed below served the American Revolution in multiple capacities.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16513247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16513247", "title": "Plotino Rhodakanaty", "text": "Plotino Rhodakanaty\n\nPlotino Constantino Rhodakanaty () was a Greek (or for others a Mexican) socialist and anarchist and a prominent Mormon pioneer who was an early activist in Mexico's mid-nineteenth century labor and campesino movement, foreshadowing the Mexican Revolution in 1910.\n\nAccording to many, Rhodakanaty was born on October 14, 1828 in Athens, Greece to a member of Greek nobility and his Austrian wife. Rhodakanaty's father died after the Greek war for independence against the Turks, and his mother took him to Vienna. In 1848, Rhodakanaty traveled to Budapest to assist in the failed Hungarian uprising of that year. He supposed to traveled next to Berlin where he was exposed to the ideas of Hegel, Fourier, and Proudhon. In 1850, he visited Paris specifically to meet Proudhon after reading the latter's \"What Is Property?\" While in Paris, he learned of Mexico's rural system of relatively self-governing agricultural communities and of the threat to them presented by capitalism and privatization. He supported the effort to save them and went to Barcelona where he lived for at least two years in the large anarchist community there. Rhodakanaty planned to help save that way of life in Mexico.\n\nMoses Thatcher believed that the mother of Rhodakanaty was born in Mexico. Some believed that he was a Mexican who adapt a persona. Others believed that he was born in London.\n\nIn 1861, the same year he arrived in Mexico, he wrote \"Cartilla Socialista\" and began propagating the ideas of contemporary European thinkers, particularly Fourier, Proudhon, and Bakunin. He published other radical essays, characterized by his famous quote \"Down with all governments\" (abajo con todos los gobiernos). including \"Neopanteísmo\", founded journals, and in 1870 helped establish an \"escuela libre\" at Chalco. The term \"escuela libre\" was used by anarchists to distinguish themselves from government- and church-influenced education. The school was run by a disciple of Francisco Zalacosta. \nA student of them with the name Julio Lopez Chavez went on to lead peasant insurrections involving as many as 1,500 armed guerilla forces at a time in central Mexico. It was the first revolt in Mexico with a political anti-government program.\n\nTo support himself, he taught at the Colegio de San Ildefonso in downtown Mexico City, where he organized like-minded students. A circle of followers emerged, including Santiago Villanueva, Francisco Zalacosta, Julio Chávez López, and José María Gonzales. These people and others would later form an important nucleus in the early Mexican labor and peasant movements.\n\nIn 1875 Rhodakanaty read some translated sections of the Book of Mormon, a scripture of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS) and gained a conviction about it being \"the word of God\". In addition to the values advocated by the LDS Church, he was also attracted to their communitarian practices at the time, which included communal property and an emphasis on self-reliance. His petitioning the Church's leadership in Salt Lake City for missionaries to be sent to Mexico, as well as his efforts to convert his friends and acquaintances, were instrumental in the subsequent establishment of the LDS Church in Mexico. Plotino Rhodakanaty was baptized a Mormon on November 20, 1879 along with several other converts, and was appointed to lead the local congregation. After not receiving the Church's support for his plans to create the utopian communities he envisioned in Mexico, Rhodakanaty resigned as the head of the congregation in August 1880 and became disengaged from the LDS Church. There is no indication, however, that he also rescinded his membership.\n\nIn his older age he moved to Ajusco in the mountains southwest of Mexico City. He taught in that small school throughout the time that Otilio Montaño, the author of Emiliano Zapata's famous Plan de Ayala, attended as a young student. The Plan de Ayala closely related Rhodakanaty's goal of a democratic and self-governing society in rural Mexico.\n\nRhodakanaty eventually returned to Europe in 1886. The time and place of his death remains unknown. There is a claim that it was 1890 in Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "2807356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807356", "title": "Precious Lara Quigaman", "text": "Precious Lara Quigaman\n\nPrecious Lara San Agustin Quigaman-Alcaraz, Order of Lakandula awardee, (born January 3, 1983) is a Filipino actress, multi-product endorser and former beauty queen who won the Miss International 2005 beauty pageant held in Tokyo, Japan. She is the fourth Filipino to have won the crown, after Gemma Cruz in 1964, Aurora Pijuan in 1970, and Melanie Marquez in 1979. Prior to winning Miss International, Quigaman joined Binibining Pilipinas twice, first in 2001 and last in 2005. The latter ultimately earned her the title of Binibining Pilipinas International.\n\nBased in Bristol, United Kingdom, Quigaman is the eldest of four children of Nelson Quigaman of Ligao City in the province of Albay and Princesita San Agustin, a registered nurse. She grew up in Biñan, Laguna, and eventually Bahrain, where her father worked. After five years, she returned to Biñan and finished high school at La Consolacion College. Before moving to Bahrain, she studied for a semester at the University of Santo Tomas in Manila. In England, she attended South Gloucestershire and Stroud College, originally called Filton College where she studied Media Production and Communication.\n\nQuigaman got engaged to her longtime boyfriend, Marco Alcaraz in 2010 and got married in a civil ceremony in January 1, 2011 in Vancouver, Canada. Got married again in July 8, 2012 in a Christian wedding ceremony that was held at the Hacienda Isabela in Tagaytay City.\n\nShe gave birth to a seven-pound baby boy on November 10, 12:52 a.m. via cesarean section at the Asian Hospital and Medical Center in Alabang, Muntinlupa City.\n\nQuigaman is a Born-again Christian and was criticized by netizens after several of her Instagram post were taken to oppose Pope Francis visiting the country.\n\n\n\nwebsite: www.laraquigaman.com\n"}
{"id": "34226153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34226153", "title": "Ramón Mendezona Roldán", "text": "Ramón Mendezona Roldán\n\nRamón Mendezona Roldán (1913–2001) was a Spanish journalist.\n"}
{"id": "275536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275536", "title": "Rebecca Clarke (composer)", "text": "Rebecca Clarke (composer)\n\nRebecca Clarke (27 August 1886 – 13 October 1979) was an English classical composer and violist best known for her chamber music featuring the viola. She was born in Harrow and studied at the Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Music in London, later becoming one of the first female professional orchestral players. Stranded in the United States at the outbreak of World War II, she settled permanently in New York City and married composer and pianist James Friskin in 1944. Clarke died at her home in New York at the age of 93.\n\nAlthough Clarke's output was not large, her work was recognised for its compositional skill and artistic power. Some of her works have yet to be published (and many were only recently published); those that were published in her lifetime were largely forgotten after she stopped composing. Scholarship and interest in her compositions revived in 1976. The Rebecca Clarke Society was established in 2000 to promote the study and performance of her music.\n\nClarke was born in Harrow, England, to Joseph Thacher Clarke, an American, and his German wife, Agnes Paulina Marie Amalie Helferich. Her father was interested in music, and Clarke started on violin after sitting in on lessons that were being given to her brother, Hans Thatcher Clarke, who was 15 months her junior. She began her studies at the Royal Academy of Music in 1903, but was withdrawn by her father in 1905 after teacher Percy Hilder Miles proposed to her (he later left her his Stradivarius violin in his will). She made the first of many visits to the United States shortly after leaving the Royal Academy. She then attended the Royal College of Music from 1907 to 1910, becoming one of Sir Charles Villiers Stanford's first female composition students. At Stanford's urging she shifted her focus from the violin to the viola, just as the latter was coming to be seen as a legitimate solo instrument. She studied with Lionel Tertis, who was considered by some the greatest violist of the day. In 1910 she composed a setting of Chinese poetry, called \"Tears\", in collaboration with a group of fellow students at RCM. She also sang under the direction of Ralph Vaughan Williams in a student ensemble organized by Clarke to study and perform Palestrina's music.\n\nFollowing her criticism of his extra-marital affairs, Clarke's father turned her out of the house and cut off her funds. She had to leave the Royal College in 1910 and supported herself through her viola playing. Clarke became one of the first female professional orchestral musicians when she was selected by Sir Henry Wood to play in the Queen's Hall Orchestra in 1912. In 1916 she moved to the United States to continue her performing career. A short, lyrical piece for viola and piano entitled \"Morpheus\", composed under the pseudonym of \"Anthony Trent\", was premiered at her 1918 joint recital with cellist May Mukle in New York City. Reviewers praised the \"Trent\", largely ignoring the works credited to Clarke premiered in the same recital. Her compositional career peaked in a brief period, beginning with the viola sonata she entered in a 1919 competition sponsored by Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge, Clarke's neighbour and a patron of the arts. In a field of 72 entrants, Clarke's sonata tied for first place with a composition by Ernest Bloch. Coolidge later declared Bloch the winner. Reporters speculated that \"Rebecca Clarke\" was only a pseudonym for Bloch himself, or at least that it could not have been Clarke who wrote these pieces, as the idea that a woman could write such a work was socially inconceivable. The sonata was well received and had its first performance at the Berkshire music festival in 1919. In 1921 Clarke again made an impressive showing in Coolidge's composition competition with her piano trio, though again failed to take the prize. A 1923 rhapsody for cello and piano followed, sponsored by Coolidge, making Clarke the only female recipient of Coolidge's patronage. These three works represent the height of Clarke's compositional career.\n\nClarke, in 1924, embarked upon a career as a solo and ensemble performer in London, after first completing a world tour in 1922–23. In 1927 she helped form the English Ensemble, a piano quartet that included herself, Marjorie Hayward, Kathleen Long and May Mukle. She also performed on several recordings in the 1920s and 1930s, and participated in BBC music broadcasts. Her compositional output greatly decreased during this period. However, she continued to perform, participating in the Paris Colonial Exhibition in 1931 as part of the English Ensemble. Between 1927 and 1933 she was romantically involved with the British baritone, John Goss, who was eight years her junior and married at the time. He had premiered several of her mature songs, two of which were dedicated to him, \"June Twilight\" and \"The Seal Man\". Her \"Tiger, Tiger\", finished at the time the relationship was ending, proved to be her last composition for solo voice until the early 1940s.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, Clarke was in the US visiting her two brothers, and was unable to obtain a visa to return to Britain. She lived for a while with her brothers' families and then in 1942 took a position as a governess for a family in Connecticut. She composed 10 works between 1939 and 1942, including her \"Passacaglia on an Old English Tune\". She had first met James Friskin, a composer, concert pianist, and founding member of the Juilliard School faculty, and later to become her husband, when they were both students at the Royal College of Music. They renewed their friendship after a chance meeting on a Manhattan street in 1944 and married in September of that year when both were in their late 50s. According to musicologist Liane Curtis, Friskin was \"a man who gave [Clarke] a sense of deep satisfaction and equilibrium.\"\n\nClarke has been described by Stephen Banfield as the most distinguished British female composer of the inter-war generation. However, her later output was sporadic. She suffered from dysthymia, a chronic form of depression; the lack of encouragement—sometimes outright discouragement—she received for her work also made her reluctant to compose. Clarke did not consider herself able to balance her personal life and the demands of composition: \"I can't do it unless it's the first thing I think of every morning when I wake and the last thing I think of every night before I go to sleep.\" After her marriage, she stopped composing, despite the encouragement of her husband, although she continued working on arrangements until shortly before her death. She also stopped performing.\n\nClarke sold the Stradivarius she had been bequeathed, and established the May Mukle prize at the Royal Academy. The prize is still awarded annually to an outstanding cellist. After her husband's death in 1967, Clarke began writing a memoir, entitled \"I Had a Father Too (or the Mustard Spoon)\"; it was completed in 1973 but never published. In it she describes her early life, marked by frequent beatings from her father and strained family relations which affected her perceptions of her proper place in life. Clarke died in 1979 at her home in New York City at the age of 93, and was cremated.\n\nA large portion of Clarke's music features the viola, as she was a professional performer for many years. Much of her output was written for herself and the all-female chamber ensembles she played in, including the Norah Clench Quartet, the English Ensemble, and the d'Aranyi Sisters. She also toured worldwide, particularly with cellist May Mukle. Her works were strongly influenced by several trends in 20th century classical music. Clarke also knew many leading composers of the day, including Bloch and Ravel, with whom her work has been compared.\n\nThe impressionism of Debussy is often mentioned in connection with Clarke's work, particularly its lush textures and modernistic harmonies. The Viola Sonata (published in the same year as the Bloch and the Hindemith Viola Sonata) is an example of this, with its pentatonic opening theme, thick harmonies, emotionally intense nature, and dense, rhythmically complex texture. The Sonata remains a part of standard repertoire for the viola. \"Morpheus\", composed a year earlier, was her first expansive work, after over a decade of songs and miniatures. The \"Rhapsody\" that Coolidge sponsored is Clarke's most ambitious work: it is roughly 23 minutes long, with complex musical ideas and ambiguous tonalities contributing to the varying moods of the piece. In contrast, \"Midsummer Moon\", written the following year, is a light miniature, with a flutter-like solo violin line.\n\nIn addition to her chamber music for strings, Clarke wrote many songs. Nearly all of Clarke's early pieces are for solo voice and piano. Her 1933 \"Tiger, Tiger\", a setting of Blake's poem \"The Tyger\", is dark and brooding, almost expressionist. She worked on it for five years to the exclusion of other works during her tumultuous relationship with John Goss and revised it in 1972. Most of her songs, however, are lighter in nature. Her earliest works were parlour songs, and she went on to build up a body of work drawn primarily from classic texts by Yeats, Masefield, and A.E. Housman.\n\nDuring 1939 to 1942, the last prolific period near the end of her compositional career, her style became more clear and contrapuntal, with emphasis on motivic elements and tonal structures, the hallmarks of neoclassicism. \"Dumka\" (1941), a recently published work for violin, viola, and piano, reflects the Eastern European folk styles of Bartók and Martinů. The \"Passacaglia on an Old English Tune\", also from 1941 and premiered by Clarke herself, is based on a theme attributed to Thomas Tallis which appears throughout the work. The piece is modal in flavor, mainly in the Dorian mode but venturing into the seldom-heard Phrygian mode. The piece is dedicated to \"BB\", ostensibly Clarke's niece Magdalen; scholars speculate that the dedication is more likely referring to Benjamin Britten, who organised a concert commemorating the death of Clarke's friend and major influence Frank Bridge. The \"Prelude, Allegro, and Pastorale\", also composed in 1941, is another neoclassically-influenced piece, written for clarinet and viola (originally for her brother and sister-in-law).\n\nClarke composed no large scale works such as symphonies. Her total output of compositions comprises 52 songs, 11 choral works, 21 chamber pieces, the Piano Trio, and the Viola Sonata. Her work was all but forgotten for a long period of time, but interest in it was revived in 1976 following a radio broadcast in celebration of her ninetieth birthday. Over half of Clarke's compositions remain unpublished and in the personal possession of her heirs, along with most of her writings. However, in the early 2000s more of her works were printed and recorded. Examples of recent publications include two string quartets and \"Morpheus\", published in 2002.\n\nModern reception of Clarke's work has been generally positive. A 1981 review of her Viola Sonata called it a \"thoughtful, well constructed piece\" from a relatively obscure composer; a 1985 review noted its \"emotional intensity and use of dark tone colours\". Andrew Achenbach, in his review of a Helen Callus recording of several Clarke works, referred to \"Morpheus\" as \"striking\" and \"languorous\". Laurence Vittes noted that Clarke's \"Lullaby\" was \"exceedingly sweet and tender\". A 1987 review concluded that \"it seems astonishing that such splendidly written and deeply moving music should have lain in obscurity all these years\".\n\nThe Viola Sonata was the subject of BBC Radio 3's Building a Library survey on 17 October 2015. The top recommendation, chosen by Helen Wallace, was by Tabea Zimmermann (viola) and Kirill Gerstein (piano). In 2017 BBC Radio 3 devoted five hours to her music as \"Composer of the Week.\"\n\nThe Rebecca Clarke Society was established in September 2000 to promote performance, scholarship, and awareness of the works of Rebecca Clarke. Founded by musicologists Liane Curtis and Jessie Ann Owens and based in the Women's Studies Research Center at Brandeis University, the Society has promoted recording and scholarship of Clarke's work, including several world premiere performances, recordings of unpublished material, and numerous journal publications.\n\nThe Society made available previously unpublished compositions from Clarke's estate. \"Binnorie\", a twelve-minute song based on Celtic folklore, was discovered in 1997, and not premiered until 2001. Over 25 previously unknown works have been published since the establishment of the Society. Several of Clarke's chamber works, including the expansive \"Rhapsody\" for cello and piano, and \"Cortège\", her only piano work, were first recorded in 2000 on the Dutton label, using material from the Clarke estate. In 2002, the Society organised and sponsored the world premieres of the 1907 and 1909 violin sonatas.\n\nThe head of the Rebecca Clarke Society, Liane Curtis, is the editor of \"A Rebecca Clarke Reader\", originally published by Indiana University Press in 2004. The book was withdrawn from circulation by the publisher following complaints from the current manager of Clarke's estate about the quotation of unpublished examples from Clarke's writings. However, the \"Reader\" has since been reissued by the Rebecca Clarke Society itself.\n\n\"For a complete listing, see List of compositions by Rebecca Clarke.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99372", "title": "Robin (character)", "text": "Robin (character)\n\nRobin is the name of several fictional superheroes appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was originally created by Bob Kane, Bill Finger, and Jerry Robinson, to serve as a junior counterpart to the superhero Batman. The character's first incarnation, Dick Grayson, debuted in \"Detective Comics\" #38 (April 1940). Conceived as a way to attract young readership, Robin garnered overwhelmingly positive critical reception, doubling the sales of the Batman titles. The early adventures of Robin included \"Star Spangled Comics\" #65–130 (1947–1952), which was the character's first solo feature. Robin made regular appearances in Batman related comic books and other DC Comics publications from 1940 through the early 1980s until the character set aside the Robin identity and became the independent superhero Nightwing. The team of Batman and Robin has commonly been referred to as the \"Caped Crusaders\" or \"Dynamic Duo\".\n\nThe character's second incarnation Jason Todd first appeared in \"Batman\" #357 (1983). This Robin made regular appearances in Batman related comic books until 1988, when the character was murdered by the Joker in the storyline \"\" (1989). Jason would later find himself alive after a reality changing incident, eventually becoming the Red Hood. The premiere \"Robin\" limited series was published in 1991 which featured the character's third incarnation Tim Drake training to earn the role of Batman's vigilante partner. Following two successful sequels, the monthly \"Robin\" ongoing series began in 1993 and ended in early 2009, which also helped his transition from sidekick to a superhero in his own right. In 2004 storylines, established DC Comics character Stephanie Brown became the fourth Robin for a short duration before the role reverted to Tim Drake. Damian Wayne succeeds Drake as Robin in the 2009 story arc \"\".\n\nFollowing the 2011 continuity reboot \"the New 52\", Tim Drake was revised as having assumed the title Red Robin, and Jason Todd, operating as the Red Hood, was slowly repairing his relationship with Batman. Dick Grayson resumed his role as Nightwing and Stephanie Brown was introduced anew under her previous moniker Spoiler in the pages of \"Batman Eternal\" (2014). The 2016 DC Rebirth continuity relaunch starts off with Damian Wayne as Robin, Tim Drake as Red Robin, Jason Todd as Red Hood, and Dick Grayson as Nightwing. Robins have also been featured throughout stories set in parallel worlds, owing to DC Comics' longstanding \"Multiverse\" concept. For example, in the original Earth-Two, Dick Grayson never adopted the name Nightwing, and continues operating as Robin into adulthood. In the New 52's \"Earth-2\" continuity, Robin is Helena Wayne, daughter of Batman and Catwoman, who was stranded on the Earth of the main continuity and takes the name Huntress.\n\nAbout a year after Batman's debut, Batman creators Bob Kane and Bill Finger introduced Robin the Boy Wonder in \"Detective Comics\" #38 (1940). The name \"Robin the Boy Wonder\" and the medieval look of the original costume were inspired by \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\". Robinson noted he \"came up with Robin Hood because \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" were boyhood favorites of mine. I had been given a Robin Hood book illustrated by N. C. Wyeth ... and that's what I quickly sketched out when I suggested the name Robin Hood, which they seemed to like, and then showed them the costume. And if you look at it, it's Wyeth's costume, from my memory, because I didn't have the book to look at.\" (Some later accounts of Robin's origin have stated that the name comes from the American robin bird, not from Robin Hood, Frank Miller's \"All Star Batman and Robin\" being a notable exception. Sometimes both sources are credited, as in Len Wein's \"The Untold Legend of the Batman\".) Although Robin is best known as Batman's sidekick, the Robins have also been members of the superhero group the Teen Titans—with the original Robin, Dick Grayson, as a founding member and the group's leader and with Tim Drake as the team leader .\n\nIn Batman stories, the character of Robin was intended to be Batman's Watson: Bill Finger, writer for many early Batman adventures, wrote:\n\"Robin was an outgrowth of a conversation I had with Bob. As I said, Batman was a combination of Douglas Fairbanks and Sherlock Holmes. Holmes had his Watson. The thing that bothered me was that Batman didn't have anyone to talk to, and it got a little tiresome always having him thinking. I found that as I went along Batman needed a Watson to talk to. That's how Robin came to be. Bob called me over and said he was going to put a boy in the strip to identify with Batman. I thought it was a great idea.\"\nThe following fictional characters have assumed the Robin role at various times in the main continuity:\n\nIn the comics, Dick Grayson was an 8-year-old acrobat and the youngest of a family act called the \"Flying Graysons\". A gangster named Boss Zucco, loosely based on actor Edward G. Robinson's \"Little Caesar\" character, had been extorting money from the circus and killed Grayson's parents, John and Mary, by sabotaging their trapeze equipment as a warning against defiance. Batman investigated the crime and, as his alter ego billionaire Bruce Wayne, had Dick put under his custody as a legal ward. Together they investigated Zucco and collected the evidence needed to bring him to justice. From his debut appearance in 1940 through 1969, Robin was known as the Boy Wonder. Batman creates a costume for Dick, consisting of a red tunic, yellow cape, green gloves, green boots, green spandex briefs, and a utility belt. As he grew older, graduated from high school, and enrolled in Hudson University, Robin continued his career as the Teen Wonder, from 1970 into the early 1980s.\n\nThe character was rediscovered by a new generation of fans during the 1980s because of the success of \"The New Teen Titans\", in which he left Batman's shadow entirely to assume the identity of Nightwing. He aids Batman throughout the later storyline regarding the several conflicts with Jason Todd until he makes his final return as the \"Red Hood\". Grayson temporarily took over as Batman (while Wayne was traveling through time), using the aid of Damian Wayne, making his newish appearance as \"Robin\", to defeat and imprison Todd. With Bruce Wayne's return, Grayson went back to being Nightwing.\n\nDC was initially hesitant to turn Grayson into Nightwing and to replace him with a new Robin. To minimize the change, they made the new Robin, Jason Peter Todd, who first appeared in \"Batman\" #357 (1983), similar to a young Grayson. Like Dick Grayson, Jason Todd was the son of circus acrobats murdered by a criminal (this time the Batman adversary Killer Croc), and then adopted by Bruce Wayne. In this incarnation, he was originally red-haired and unfailingly cheerful, and wore his circus costume to fight crime until Dick Grayson presented him with a Robin suit of his own. At that point, he dyed his hair black.\n\nAfter the mini-series \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", much of the DC Comics continuity was redone. Dick Grayson's origin, years with Batman, and growth into Nightwing remained mostly unchanged; but Todd's character was completely revised. He was now a black-haired street orphan who first encountered Batman when he attempted to steal tires from the Batmobile. Batman saw to it that he was placed in a school for troubled youths. Weeks later, after Dick Grayson became Nightwing and Todd proved his crime-fighting worth by helping Batman catch a gang of robbers, Batman offered Todd the position as Robin.\n\nBelieving that readers never truly bonded with Todd, DC Comics made the controversial decision in 1988 to poll readers using a 1-900 number as to whether or not Todd should be killed. The event received more attention in the mainstream media than any other comic book event before it. Readers voted \"yes\" by a small margin (5,343 to 5,271) and Todd was subsequently murdered by the Joker in the storyline, \"\", in which the psychopath beat the youngster severely with a crowbar, and left him to die in a warehouse rigged with a bomb.\n\nJason Todd later returned as the new Red Hood (the original alias of the Joker) when he was brought back to life due to reality being altered. After the continuity changes following the New 52 DC Comics relaunch, Jason becomes a leader of the Outlaws, a superhero team that includes Starfire and Arsenal who had spent years with Grayson in the Titans.\n\nDC Comics was left uncertain about readers' decision to have Jason Todd killed, wondering if readers preferred Batman as a lone vigilante, disliked Todd specifically, or just wanted to see if DC would actually kill off the character. In addition, the 1989 \"Batman\" film did not feature Robin, giving DC a reason to keep him out of the comic book series for marketing purposes. Regardless, Batman editor Denny O'Neil introduced a new Robin. The third Robin, Timothy Drake, first appeared in a flashback in \"Batman\" #436 (1989).\n\nIn the comics, Tim Drake was a young boy who had followed the adventures of Batman and Robin ever since witnessing the murder of the Flying Graysons. This served to connect Drake to Grayson, establishing a link that DC hoped would help readers accept this new Robin. Drake surmised their secret identities with his amateur but instinctive detective skills and followed their careers closely. Tim stated on numerous occasions that he wishes to become \"The World's Greatest Detective\", a title currently belonging to the Dark Knight. Batman himself stated that one day Drake will surpass him as a detective. Despite his combat skills not being the match of Grayson's (although there are some similarities, in that they are far superior to Todd's when he was Robin), his detective skills more than make up for this. In addition, Batman supplied him with a new armored costume.\n\nTim Drake's first Robin costume had a red torso, yellow stitching and belt, black boots, and green short sleeves, gloves, pants, and domino mask. He wore a cape that was black on the outside and yellow on the inside. This costume had an armored tunic and gorget, an emergency \"R\" shuriken on his chest in addition to the traditional batarangs and a collapsible bo staff as his primary weapon, which Tim Drake continues to use as the superhero Red Robin.\n\nThe character was introduced as a happy medium between the first two Robins in that, from the readers' point of view, he is neither overly well behaved like Dick Grayson nor overly impudent like Jason Todd. Tim Drake is the first Robin to have his own comic book series, where he fought crime on his own. Tim Drake, as Robin, co-founded the superhero team Young Justice in the absence of the Teen Titans of Dick Grayson's generation, but would then later re-form the Teen Titans after Young Justice disbanded following a massive \"sidekick crossover\" during which Donna Troy was killed. Tim served as leader of this version of the Titans until 2009, at which point he quit due to the events of \"Batman R.I.P.\"\n\nFollowing \"Infinite Crisis\" and \"52\", Tim Drake modified his costume to favor a mostly red and black color scheme in tribute to his best friend, Superboy (Kon-El), who died fighting Earth-Prime Superboy. This Robin costume had a red torso, long sleeves, and pants. It also included black gloves and boots, yellow stitching and belt, and a black and yellow cape. Tim Drake continued the motif of a red and black costume when he assumed the role of Red Robin before and during the events of the New 52.\n\nTim Drake assumes the identity of Red Robin after Batman's disappearance following the events of \"Final Crisis\" and \"\" and Damian Wayne becoming Grayson's Robin. Following 2011's continuity changes resulting from the New 52 DC Comics relaunch, history was altered such that Tim Drake never took up the Robin mantle after Jason Todd's death, feeling that it would be inappropriate. Instead, he served as Batman's sidekick under the name of Red Robin.\n\nStephanie Brown, Tim Drake's girlfriend and the costumed adventurer previously known as the Spoiler, volunteered for the role of Robin upon Tim's resignation. Batman fired the Girl Wonder for not obeying his orders to the letter on two separate occasions. Stephanie then stole one of Batman's incomplete plans to control Gotham crime and executed it. Trying to prove her worthiness, Brown inadvertently set off a gang war on the streets of Gotham. While trying to help end the war, Brown was captured and tortured by the lunatic crime boss Black Mask. She managed to escape but apparently died shortly afterwards due to the severity of her injuries. Tim Drake keeps a memorial for her in his cave hideout underneath Titans Tower in San Francisco. She appeared alive and stalking Tim, after his return from traveling around the globe with his mentor. It turned out that Dr. Leslie Thompkins had faked Stephanie's death in an effort to protect her. For years she operated on and off as the Spoiler, but was then recruited as Barbara Gordon's replacement as Batgirl. She had her own series as well as making appearances throughout various Batman and Batman spin-off series. Her time as Spoiler, Robin, and Batgirl was retconned to have never occurred after the \"Flashpoint\" event, with her being reintroduced having just become Spoiler in \"Batman Eternal\".\n\nDamian Wayne was the child of Bruce Wayne and Talia al Ghul, thus the grandson of the immortal Ra's al Ghul. Batman was unaware of his son's existence for years until Talia left Damian in his care. Damian was violent and lacking in discipline and morality, and was trained by the League of Assassins. Learning to kill at a young age, Damian's murderous behavior created a troubled relationship with his father, who vowed never to take a life.\nOriginally conceived to become a host for his maternal grandfather's soul as well as a pawn against the Dark Knight, Batman saved his child from this fate which forced Ra's to inhabit his own son's body, and thus, Damian was affectionate to his father. After Batman's apparent death during \"Final Crisis,\" Talia left her son under Dick Grayson and Alfred Pennyworth's care and Damian was deeply affected by his father's absence. In the first issue of \"Battle for the Cowl\", Damian was driving the Batmobile and was attacked by Poison Ivy and Killer Croc. Damian was rescued by Nightwing who then tries to escape but was shot down by Black Mask's men. Nightwing tried to fight the thugs, but the thugs were shot by Jason Todd. After a fight between Nightwing and Todd, Todd eventually shot Damian in the chest. In the final issue of the series, Alfred made Damian into Robin. Damian's first task as Robin was to rescue Tim. After \"Battle for the Cowl\", Grayson adopted the mantle of Batman, and instead of having Tim (who he viewed as an equal, rather than a protégé) remain as Robin, he gave the role to Damian, who he felt needed the training that his father would have given him.\n\nFollowing \"\" and \"Flashpoint\" events, Bruce Wayne returned to his role as Batman while Dick resumed as Nightwing. As of the \"New 52\", Damian continued to work with his father, but temporarily gave up being Robin (as his mother put a price on his head), and went under the identity of Red Bird. Damian met his end at the hands of Heretic, an aged-clone of Damian working for Leviathan, bravely giving up his life. Despite his status as deceased, Damian starred in his own mini-series, \"Damian: Son of Batman,\" written and drawn by Andy Kubert, set in a future where Damian is on the path to become Batman after his father fell victim to a trap set by the Joker. Batman eventually started a difficult quest to resurrect him, returning Damian to life with Darkseid's Chaos Shard.\n\nA Batman story from the 1950s featured the young Bruce Wayne assuming the identity of Robin, complete with the original costume, in order to learn the basics of detective work from a famous detective named Harvey Harris. The purpose of the secret identity was to prevent Harris from learning Wayne's true motivation for approaching him, which could have led to the detective attempting to discourage the boy from pursuing his obsession. Though this story remained canonical through the most of the 1980s (it was revisited in the \"Untold Legend of the Batman\" miniseries in 1980), it was revised post-Crisis to edit out any reference to Bruce Wayne having ever called himself \"Robin\" or worn any costume before he finally donned his Batman costume as an adult. John Byrne later worked this aspect into his non-canonical story \"\".\n\nPost-Crisis, there was one instance in continuity when Bruce Wayne adopted the Robin persona. In \"Batboy & Robin\", a tie-in special to the DC Comics storyline \"Sins of Youth\", Bruce and Tim Drake, the third Robin, had their ages magically switched. In an effort to keep up the illusion of Batman, Bruce had Tim adopt the Batman identity while he is forced to be Robin.\n\nOn Earth-Two, home of the Golden Age version of DC's superheroes, Dick Grayson continued to be Robin even as an adult, having no successors, and even after Batman's death. His allies as a boy included the All-Star Squadron along with Batwoman and Flamebird.\n\nBy the 1960s, Grayson had become an adult, and was a lawyer and the ambassador to South Africa. He adopted a more Batman-like costume, but still fought crime as Robin. This adult version of Dick Grayson debuted in \"Justice League of America\" #55, where he also became a member of the Justice Society of America. Although in semi-retirement for a time, he was called back to active duty when he rejoined the Justice Society during the period when he, Power Girl and Star-Spangled Kid, assisted them as The Super Squad.\n\nHe appeared to have died during the 1985 miniseries \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", in which the DC Multiverse was reduced to one Universe, and this version of Grayson, as well as the Earth-Two Batman, were deemed never to have existed. The Earth-2 concept was revived and reimagined twice subsequently, following the comic books \"52\" (2006–7) and \"Flashpoint\" (2011).\n\nIn the \"DC One Million\" storyline, members of the Justice League of America encounter a variety of heroes from the future, including an 853rd-century Batman who patrols the prison planet Pluto. This version of Batman is accompanied by a robotic Robin who contains a transcribed copy of his own personality from before his parents were murdered by Plutonian criminals.\n\nThis Robin (who calls himself \"the Toy Wonder\") is a member of the Justice Legion T in addition to serving as a deliberate counterbalance to Batman's dark personality.\n\n\"Elseworlds\" versions of DC characters are ones that exist in alternate timelines or realities that take place in entirely self-contained continuities. In \"Elseworlds\" Robin has been a German immigrant during WWII named Richart Graustark, Bruce Wayne Jr (the son of Julia Madison and Bruce Wayne), a genetically enhanced ape named Rodney, a samurai named Tengu, a pirate's cabin boy, a girl traveling via space ship to a far off colonial planet, Bruce Wayne's nephew Thomas Wayne III, MI-6 agent Alfred Pennyworth, Bruce Wayne's sister during the Reign of Terror in France, and a Native American named Red Bird.\n\nIn Frank Miller's non-canonical \"The Dark Knight Returns\", the role of Robin is filled by Carrie Kelley, a thirteen-year-old girl. She becomes Robin, and is accepted by the Batman after she saves his life. Unlike the previous Robins, Carrie is not an orphan, but she appears to have rather neglectful parents who are never actually depicted (one of them mutters \"Didn't we have a kid?\" while their daughter is watching the fierce battle between Batman and the Mutants). It is hinted through their dialogue that they were once activists and possibly hippies during the 1960s, but have since become apathetic stoners. She was the first female Robin and the first Robin with living parents. In the sequel, \"\", 2001, Carrie dons the identity of Catgirl but still works as Batman's second-in-command.\n\nShe was also featured in an episode of \"\" entitled \"Legends of the Dark Knight\". She then appeared in \"\" episode entitled \"Batman Dies At Dawn!\" along with Dick Grayson, Jason Todd, Tim Drake, Stephanie Brown, and Damian Wayne. Kelley joined the New 52 DC universe in \"Batman and Robin\" #19, in a story titled \"Batman and Red Robin\".\n\nCrime Syndicate version of Robin on Earth-3, associate of Owlman. Talon refers to Owlman as his father, whether he is the biological son of Thomas Wayne II or an alternate version of Jason Todd or Tim Drake is unknown. Talon first appeared in \"Teen Titans\" (vol. 3) #32 (March 2006).\n\nIn the final issue of \"52\", a new Multiverse is revealed, originally consisting of 52 identical realities. Among the parallel realities shown is one designated \"Earth-2\". As a result of Mister Mind \"eating\" aspects of this reality, it takes on visual aspects similar to the pre-Crisis Earth-2, including Robin among other Justice Society of America characters. Based on comments by Grant Morrison, this alternate universe is not the pre-Crisis Earth-2. However, in the \"Justice Society of America\" Annual #1, published in the summer of 2008, Silver Scarab explains that the events of the Crisis are remembered by the people of this Earth-2, and from \"their\" perspective, Earth-2 seemed to be the only Earth to have survived the Crisis, raising theories as to whether or not Earth-2 was really destroyed, or was perhaps replaced by a new Earth-2. Indeed, in \"Justice Society of America\" #20, published in December 2008, Starman explains that during the re-expansion of the DC Multiverse, Earth-2 was reborn \"along with everyone on it\", including Robin.\n\nFollowing \"Flashpoint\" (2011) and The New 52 reboot, this Earth is replaced by another reimagining of Earth 2, one where Batman's daughter Helena Wayne served as Robin until an incident five years prior to the relaunch sent her to DC's primary continuity, Earth-0, where she works as Huntress. The 2014 series \"Earth 2: World's End\" establishes that Dick Grayson never served as Robin on this Earth, and was instead a reporter who married Barbara Gordon and had a son. During Darkseid's invasion of Earth 2, Barbara is killed, and Dick is trained in how to fight by Ted Grant and goes on a mission to find his missing son.\nThe first \"Robin\" miniseries was printed in 1992 following Tim Drake's debut as Robin. The series centered around Tim's continued training and set up villains linked to the character. It was followed up by another series \"Robin II: Joker's Wild\" which pitted Tim against his predecessor's murderer the Joker. With Batman out of town, it was up to Tim and Alfred to end the Joker's latest crime spree. A final miniseries, \"Robin III: Cry of Huntress\" wrapped up the trilogy, teaming Tim with the Huntress. In 1993, the success of the three miniseries led to the ongoing \"Robin\" series which ran 183 issues until 2009. The title was replaced by a \"Batman and Robin\" series following the \"Battle for the Cowl\" mini-series, as well as an ongoing \"Red Robin\" monthly which continues the story of Tim Drake.\n\nThe ongoing \"Robin\" series has taken part in a number of crossovers with other comics, especially \"Batman\" and related series. These include:\n\nIn addition, two Robin related series launched in June 2015: \"We Are Robin\", featuring writer Lee Bermejo and artists Rob Haynes and Khary Randolph, and detailing multiple teenagers in Gotham who take up the mantle of Robin and \"Robin, Son of Batman\", written and drawn by Patrick Gleason, showing the individual adventures of Damian Wayne.\n\nAccording to \"Entertainment Weekly\" in 2008, Robin is one of the \"greatest sidekicks\".\n\nRobin (Dick Grayson) was portrayed by Douglas Croft and Johnny Duncan, respectively, in the 1943 and 1949 fifteen chapter \"Batman\" serials. Burt Ward played him in the 1966–1968 \"Batman\" television series and the related 1966 film. In the live-action movies \"Batman Forever\" and \"Batman & Robin\", he was played by Chris O'Donnell. Michael Cera voiced the character in \"The Lego Batman Movie\".\n\nThe Dick Grayson version of Robin also appears in \"\", voiced by Loren Lester. Grayson is replaced by Tim Drake, played by Mathew Valencia, in the subsequent series \"The New Batman Adventures\".\n\nThe animated series \"Teen Titans\" features Robin (voiced by Scott Menville) as the leader of a team of young heroes; it is hinted in several episodes that this Robin is Dick Grayson. In the season two episode \"Fractured\", a version of Bat-Mite is introduced who claims to be Robin's \"DNA buddy\" (genetic twin). Bat-Mite gives his name as Nosyarg Kcid (\"Dick Grayson\" spelled backwards). In another episode, Raven reads Robin's mind and sees a man and a woman falling from a trapeze (an event known only to have happened to Grayson and not to any other Robin). In another episode, Starfire travels to the future and discovers that Robin has taken the identity of Nightwing. Menville reprises his role as Robin in \"Teen Titans Go!\".\n\nRobin is also seen in the 1987 Zeller's commercial, which features the infamous catchphrase, \"Well said, Robin!\".\n\nRobin is voiced by Jesse McCartney in \"Young Justice\".\n\nRobin is portrayed by Nick Lang in \"Holy Musical B@man!\". His portrayal is based mainly on Burt Ward's Dick Grayson.\n\n\nExtensive biography on Dick Grayson\nExtensive biography on Jason Todd\n"}
{"id": "45084672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45084672", "title": "Roger Ver", "text": "Roger Ver\n\nRoger Keith Ver (born January 27, 1979) is an early investor in bitcoin-related startups. He has been a prominent supporter of bitcoin adoption and saw bitcoin as a means to promote economic freedom. He now promotes Bitcoin Cash, a hard fork of the cryptocurrency created with the intent to fix issues such as high fees and long transaction confirmation times.\n\nBorn and raised in Silicon Valley, he sold explosives on eBay and later pleaded guilty to three related felony charges. He served 10 months in prison, then moved to Japan in 2005. He renounced his United States citizenship in 2014 after obtaining a Saint Kitts and Nevis passport. He identifies as a libertarian, an anarcho-capitalist, peace advocate, and an advocate for individualism and voluntaryism.\n\nVer was born in San Jose, California. He attended De Anza College for a year, dropping out to pursue his business interests. He moved to Japan in 2005 after serving a 10-month prison sentence for illegally selling explosives. He renounced his United States citizenship in 2014 after he became a citizen of Saint Kitts and Nevis. In 2015, he was denied a visa to reenter the United States by the U.S. Embassy in Barbados, which claimed that he had not sufficiently proven ties outside of the United States that would motivate him to leave at the end of his visit, causing fears he might become an illegal immigrant. Later in the same year his visa was approved by the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, and he visited the United States in June 2016 to speak at a conference in Denver, Colorado.\n\nAccording to an interview he gave in 2016, Ver describes Brazilian Jiu Jitsu as one of his major passions in life. Ver can be seen in videos competing in BJJ world championships and has achieved the rank of Brown belt. He identifies as a libertarian, an anarcho-capitalist, peace advocate and advocates for individualism and voluntaryism.\nIn 2018 he was ranked number 36 in Fortune's The Ledger 40 under 40 for transforming business at the leading edge of finance and technology.\n\nHe was the CEO of MemoryDealers.com from 1999 until 2012. In 2000, he attempted to enter politics by running for California State Assembly as a candidate for the Libertarian Party.\n\nIn 2002, Ver pleaded guilty to selling explosives without a license, to illegally storing explosives, and to mailing the explosives. Ver bought 49 pounds of \"Pest Control Report 2000\" explosives, sold at least 14 pounds of them as large firecrackers on eBay, stored the explosives in a residential apartment building, and mailed them to customers via the U.S. Postal Service. He was sentenced to 10 months in federal prison. \n\nVer began investing in bitcoin in early 2011. The first investment he made was for Charlie Shrem’s Bitinstant. Ver's investment allowed the company to hire a designer and another programmer. He invested over a million dollars into new bitcoin related startups including Ripple, Blockchain.info, Bitpay and Kraken. In 2011, Ver's company Memorydealers was the first to accept bitcoin as payment. His early advocacy for bitcoin earned him the moniker of Bitcoin Jesus.\n\nIn 2012, he created bitcoinstore.com with hundreds of thousands of items available for purchase with bitcoin. In May 2014, an old email account used by Ver was hacked and used in a failed attempt to ransom bitcoin.\n\nVer gained control of bitcoin.com in April 2014.\n\nIn 2012, Ver was organising bitcoin meetups in Sunnyvale. He is one of five founders of the Bitcoin Foundation. Ver wants bitcoin to rival major fiat currencies.\n\nHe is one of the main proponents of a larger block size. He supported the development of Bitcoin XT as a hard fork method towards an increase. Ver and his high school friend Jesse Powell attempted to re-establish the Mt Gox exchange during the June 2011 bitcoin price crash.\n\nVer writes opinion pieces for bitcoin-related websites and online forums. He has advocated for the widespread adoption of bitcoin software client that allows for an increase in the block chain block size limit. Ver strongly disagrees with the block size limit because it is contrary to his preferred strategy of rapid and widespread growth of bitcoin. Ver wants the use of this currency to be so widespread that an alternative cannot supplant bitcoin's first-mover advantage.\n\nDuring an interview with CNBC in December 2017 he expressed the opinion that insider trading is not a crime - \"I think insider trading is a non-crime\".\n\nHe believes that the violent interventions of governments should be replaced by voluntary human interactions in the free market. Ver identifies with the political philosophy of individualism.\n\nIn 2012, Ver helped the establishment of the Bitcoin Foundation with a large donation. In late 2013, Ver donated more than $1 million worth of bitcoin to the Foundation for Economic Education. Ver has donated more than $20K to antiwar.com.\n\n"}
{"id": "49125908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49125908", "title": "Roman Glazman", "text": "Roman Glazman\n\nRoman Evsey Glazman (June 26, 1948 – April 24, 2006) was a Russian American physicist and oceanographer.\n\nRoman E. Glazman was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, on June 26, 1948 in a secular Jewish family. He became a citizen of the United States on October 28, 1985 and completed his PhD in Ocean Engineering at the University Of Rhode Island in 1985.\n\nGlazman's scientific research was the study of ocean and atmosphere. He began working at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in La Cañada Flintridge and Pasadena, California.\n\nGlazman published more than 40 works in Oceanography in scientific journals and completed over 60 research studies presenting at International Scientific Conferences, including OCEANS Conference, Geoscience and Remote Sensing International Symposium (IGARSS), Wormley Conference, American Geophysical Union Conference (AGU), International Association for Physical Sciences of the Ocean, International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics.\n\nGlazman conducted exploratory expeditions in the Bering Sea and the North Pacific Ocean off the coast of Kamchatka and Japan, the Arctic, as well as the Barents Sea off the coast of Finland. He took measurements of the depths and salinity of oceans, of the wind forces, pressures and surface temperatures, by experimentation equipped with vessel technology available in the 1970s.\n\nThe topics in which Glazman made contributions include wave dynamics, capillary- and inertia-gravity waves, nonlinear waves and turbulence, Rossby waves, sea level measurements, sea surface geometry, magnetic field at sea surface, wind generated wave dynamics, adsorbed film and oscillations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "292698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292698", "title": "Ron Santo", "text": "Ron Santo\n\nRonald Edward Santo (February 25, 1940 – December 3, 2010) was an American Major League Baseball (MLB) third baseman who played for the Chicago Cubs from 1960 through 1973 and the Chicago White Sox in 1974. In 1990, Santo became a member of the Cubs broadcasting team providing commentary for Cubs games on WGN radio and remained at that position until his death in 2010. In 1999, he was selected to the Cubs All-Century Team. He was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2012.\n\nSanto was raised in Southeast Seattle, attending Franklin High School (Seattle), and played newly organized youth baseball in the Babe Ruth League. He grew up near Sicks Stadium, home of the Pacific Coast League’s Seattle Rainiers, and had summer jobs there as a batboy, groundskeeper and clubhouse attendant, while playing three sports in high school. At age 14 he made the Seattle, Washington All Star Babe Ruth team which advanced to the 1954 Babe Ruth World Series. In a game at then Washington DC Stadium, Dave Tacher (coach) inserted Santo at first base to replace his 15 year old who broke his thumb. In that game Santo hit a grand slam home run over the 354 foot mark in left center field and the Washington All Stars defeated Tennessee.\n\nSanto was an All-Star for nine seasons during his 15-year career. He led the National League (NL) in triples one time, in walks four times, and in on-base percentage two times. He batted .300 or more and hit 30 or more home runs four times each, and is the only third baseman in MLB history to post eight consecutive seasons with over 90 runs batted in (RBI) (1963–70). Santo is second to Mathews in slugging average (.464), and is the third ranking third baseman in walks (1,108), in RBI (1,331), and total bases (3,779).\n\nHe also was a Gold Glove Award winner for five consecutive seasons. He led the NL in total chances eight times, in games, putouts and assists seven times each, and in double plays six times. From to , he held the NL record for assists in a single season. He also set NL records for career assists (4,532), total chances (6,777) and double plays (389) at third base, all of which were eventually broken between and by Mike Schmidt. His NL total of 2,102 games at third base is 52 short of Mathews' league record, and he ranks sixth in putouts (1,930) and ninth in fielding percentage (.954).\n\nSanto enjoyed his success despite battling diabetes since he was a teenager, a condition which was carefully and generally concealed publicly until 1971; it eventually necessitated the amputation of the lower half of both his legs. Since 1979, Santo endorsed the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation's annual Ron Santo Walk to Cure Diabetes in Chicago. He helped raise over $65 million for the foundation. In 2002, he was named the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation's \"Person of the Year\".\n\nSanto was signed as a free agent by the Chicago Cubs in 1959, and made his debut on June 26, 1960. In 1961 he set a Cubs record with 41 double plays at third base, breaking the previous mark of 33 set by Bernie Friberg in 1923. In 1962 he led the National League in assists for the first time with 332, setting the team record for assists at third base, breaking the mark of 323 set by Randy Jackson in 1951. Santo continued to lead the NL in assists every year through 1968, breaking Ned Williamson's major league record of leading the league six times; Brooks Robinson went on to lead the American League eight times. Mike Schmidt eventually tied Santo's NL mark of seven. In 1963 Santo broke the modern NL record with 374 assists at third base, passing Tommy Leach's 1904 mark of 371. In 1966, he set the all-time league record with 391, the previous record being Billy Shindle's 382 in 1892; his total was 99 higher than that of league runner-up Ken Boyer. Santo broke his own record in 1967 with 393 assists, which remained the NL record until Schmidt posted 404 in 1974. He also finished fourth in the 1967 NL Most Valuable Player Award voting results. Santo's assist totals from 1963 through 1968 were the six highest by an NL third baseman between 1905 and 1973. He also led the NL in putouts every year from 1962 through 1967 and again in 1969, tying the league record shared by Pie Traynor and Willie Jones in leading the league seven times; Tim Wallach later tied the mark as well.\n\nSanto was deeply saddened by the loss of teammate Ken Hubbs, the Cubs second baseman, killed in a plane crash just prior to the 1964 season. Santo was interviewed by Tom Harmon, narrator of the film \"A Glimpse of Greatness–The Story of Ken Hubbs\", in which Santo paid the highest respects to the young Hubbs.\n\nIn 1969, Santo and the Cubs were in first place in the National League East for 180 days, before going 8–17 in their final 25 games, while the New York \"Miracle\" Mets went 37–11 in their final 48 games. During that season, the Cubs sent their entire starting infield, including Santo, to the All-Star Game in Washington, D.C.; he and Cubs shortstop Don Kessinger started for the NL team. Santo finished the season with a .289 batting average, 29 home runs and a career-high 123 runs batted in (RBI), and finished fifth in the NL's MVP voting.\n\nDuring the 1969 season, Santo became known for performing a heel click after a game on June 22, 1969 against the Montreal Expos. Going into the bottom of the ninth inning, the Expos were leading 6–3. With one out, Paul Popovich hit a single and moved up to second base after another single by Billy Williams. Although Santo grounded out for the second out, Popovich and Williams each moved up a base. Then future Hall of Famer Ernie Banks singled to bring home Williams and Popovich and bring the Cubs within a run. Rick Bladt substituted as a pinch runner for Banks. That set it up for Jim Hickman, who hit a two-run walk-off home run to win the game 7–6. When Hickman reached home plate, Santo was so excited that after congratulating him by bear hugging and pounding him on his head, Santo ran down the third base line and jumped three times, clicking his heels on each jump.\n\nThe next day, Santo walked into manager Leo Durocher's office; Durocher asked him to keep clicking his heels whenever the Cubs won at Wrigley Field to motivate the team. Santo continued this after every home win. The stunt antagonized opponents and served to make the team a target for payback in the final weeks of the season. When the Cubs began their September swoon, which took place shortly after Santo called out rookie teammate Don Young in public after a loss against the Mets in New York, he discontinued the heel click routine suddenly. His final \"click\" was performed on September 2, the last Cub home victory while still in first place. During and after the epic collapse, Santo never again performed the heel click, as critics decried the routine for its arrogance and overconfidence, which many believe was at the root of the late fade. On the day Santo was enshrined in the Hall of Fame, the Cubs' starting lineup all did the \"kick\" at the start of the game in tribute.\n\nIn 1973, Santo became the first player to invoke the ten-and-five rule under the collective bargaining agreement signed after the 1972 Major League Baseball strike. The rule allowed players with ten years' service, the last five with the same team, to decline any trade. The Cubs had agreed upon a deal to send Santo to the California Angels; the ballclub would have received in return two young pitchers: Andy Hassler, who went on to have a middling career as a reliever/spot starter, and Bruce Heinbechner, a very highly regarded left-handed pitching prospect, who died before the beginning of the 1974 season. Santo didn't want to play on the West Coast and vetoed the deal.\n\nThe Cubs still wanted to trade Santo, and since his preference was to stay in Chicago, they worked out a deal with the White Sox in December 1973, acquiring catcher Steve Swisher, and three young pitchers: Jim Kremmel, Ken Frailing, and one of Santo's future co-broadcasters, Steve Stone. The White Sox already had a third baseman, Bill Melton, so Santo was relegated mostly to designated hitter duty, which he hated. He wanted to play in the field, but White Sox manager Chuck Tanner would not bench Melton and unsuccessfully tried Santo at second base. Finishing 1974 with a .221 batting average and 5 home runs, Santo retired from baseball at the age of 34.\n\nAs the \"single biggest Cubs fan of all time\", Santo joined the Cubs' broadcast booth in 1990 as the WGN radio color commentator. He worked with play-by-play announcer Pat Hughes, and these radio broadcasts were also known as the \"Pat and Ron Show\". He also worked with Harry Caray, Thom Brennaman, Steve Stone and Bob Brenly. Santo also briefly worked with Chicago Bears and Green Bay Packers commentator Wayne Larrivee. In addition to his broadcasting career, he did commercials for Seattle Sutton's Healthy Eating, which he endorsed, along with joining Hughes in ads for Walgreens and Chevrolet. In Chicago, Santo was known for his unabashed broadcast enthusiasm, including groans and cheers during the game. As excitable as Santo was when a great play for the Cubs occurred, he was equally as vocal in his displeasure when events turned against the Cubs.\n\nIn the early years of his playing career, he carefully concealed the fact that he had type 1 diabetes. He feared that if this information were to be known, he would be forced into retirement. Because the methods of regulating diabetes in the 1960s and 1970s were not as advanced as they are today, Santo gauged his blood sugar levels based on his moods. If he felt his blood sugar was low, he would snack on a candy bar in the clubhouse.\n\nAs part of the publicity surrounding \"Ron Santo Day\" at Wrigley Field on August 28, 1971, he revealed his struggle with diabetes. He was diagnosed with this disease at the age of 18, and was given a life expectancy of 25 years. Santo had both his legs amputated below the knee as a result of his diabetes: the right in 2001 and the left in 2002.\n\nIn 2004 Santo and his battle against diabetes were the subject of a documentary, \"This Old Cub\". The film was written, co-produced and directed by Santo's son Jeff.\n\nSanto shared a bond in this respect with 2008 Cubs rookie Sam Fuld, who also suffers from type 1 diabetes.\n\nThe Santo family has been involved with the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation since 1979, with the annual Ron Santo Walk to Cure Diabetes in Chicago having raised over $65 million for the organization. In 2002, Santo was named the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation's \"Person of the Year\". Santo also inspired Bill Holden to walk 2,100 miles from Arizona to Chicago to raise $250,000 for diabetes research. During the 2016 World Series, the JDRF hosted watch parties for road games hosted by family members.\n\nSanto died at 12:40 am on December 3, 2010 in a hospital in Scottsdale, Arizona, due to complications from bladder cancer and diabetes. (Many media outlets reported the date as \"the night of the 2nd\" or \"overnight\".) Santo had lapsed into a coma on December 1.\n\nOn August 10, 2011, Santo was memorialized and \"immortalized\" at Wrigley Field with the presentation of a statue in his likeness. The statue is a portrayal of a young Santo playing defense at third base, leaning to his right while throwing a ball.\n\nWhen Santo first became eligible for election to the Baseball Hall of Fame in , he was named on less than four percent of all ballots cast by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA), resulting in his removal from the ballot in subsequent years; he was one of several players re-added to the ballot in following widespread complaints about overlooked candidates, with the remainder of their 15 years of eligibility restored even if this extended beyond the usual limit of 20 years after their last season. After receiving 13 percent of the vote in the 1985 election, his vote totals increased in 10 of the next 13 years until he received 43 percent of the vote in his final year on the ballot, finishing third in the voting behind electee Don Sutton and 2000 inductee Tony Pérez.\n\nFollowing revamped voting procedures for the Veterans Committee, which had elected players retired for over 20 years to the Hall of Fame, Santo finished third in , tied for first in , and again finished first in voting for the and inductions, but fell short of the required number of votes each year.\n\nSanto's next opportunity for admission to the Hall of Fame following a further major change to the voting structure and process announced in 2010, came during the voting in 2011 by the new 16-member Golden Era Committee which considers every three years, ten candidates identified by the Historical Overview Committee from the 1947 to 1972 era.\n\nAlthough Santo became a widely supported candidate for selection, his initial poor showing in balloting has been attributed to various factors, including a longtime tendency of BBWAA voters to overlook third basemen; at the time Santo retired, only three of the over 120 players elected were third basemen, and only Pie Traynor had been elected by the BBWAA. Also, the fact that Santo's best years occurred in the 1960s, when offensive statistics were relatively lower than in many other eras (due to an enlarged strike zone and raised pitcher's mounds, among other things), has been cited as a factor that led the voters to perhaps overlook him. Another possible reason that was suggested was that voters had not focused sufficiently on Santo's high walk totals and defense. These aspects of play are perhaps more valued by sabermetrics — newer methods of evaluating a baseball player's productivity — than they have been by BBWAA voters in the past. For example, Santo's career adjusted on-base plus slugging (OPS+; the sum of a player's on-base percentage and slugging percentage, adjusted for the park and league in which he played, and expressed as a percentage of the league average) would rank him exactly in the middle of the ten major league third basemen who were in the Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nOne argument that was raised against Santo's Hall of Fame candidacy is that his batting statistics, over the course of his career, were significantly better at home than on the road. He hit 216 of his 342 home runs at home, and only 126 on the road. His career batting average at home was .296, versus .257 on the road. However, several players elected to the Hall of Fame by the BBWAA, such as Carl Yastrzemski, Wade Boggs, Jim Rice and Kirby Puckett, batted significantly better in their home parks than they did on the road. Hall of Famers with a significant differential between their home numbers and road numbers in terms of home runs include Mel Ott (323 homers at home and 188 on the road), Frank Robinson (321 at home, 265 on the road), Jimmie Foxx (299 at home, 235 on the road) and Hank Greenberg (205 at home, 126 on the road). Others have also commented that two Cub \nplayers who were in their prime during Santo's prime years have already been honored by the Hall of Fame (Ferguson Jenkins and Billy Williams), and the Cubs also featured a third Hall of Famer, Ernie Banks, who was arguably past his prime, yet the team never won a pennant. However, the late 1960s Cubs were far from the only team in baseball history with multiple Hall of Famers that did not win a pennant or a World Series.\n\nSanto also fell short of such traditional standards of Hall election as 3,000 hits and 500 home runs; however, by the time his career ended, only two third basemen (Brooks Robinson and Lave Cross) had even collected 2,500 hits, and only one (Eddie Mathews) had reached the 500-home run plateau. Bill James, a notable statistical guru who has ranked Santo among the 100 greatest players of all time (sixth among third basemen), believed his election to the Hall of Fame was long overdue.\n\nEven though Santo was disappointed at being bypassed by the Hall of Fame, on the day his jersey number 10 was retired by the Cubs, the ever-optimistic and emotional \"old Cub\" told the cheering Wrigley Field crowd, \"This is \"my\" Hall of Fame!\" During Ryne Sandberg's Hall of Fame acceptance speech in 2005, Sandberg reiterated his support for Santo's selection, saying, \"...for what it's worth, Ron Santo just gained one more vote from the Veterans Committee.\" On April 19, 2007, the Illinois House of Representatives adopted HB 109 (Cross), urging the Veterans Committee of the Baseball Hall of Fame to elect Ron Santo to the Baseball Hall of Fame.\nWhile Santo initially received little support for induction into the Hall of Fame, his standing among baseball enthusiasts and sabermetricians gradually increased over time, culminating with his induction to the Hall of Fame two years after his death.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, the 16-member Golden Era Committee that began voting on ten candidates selected by the BBWAA screening committee, was composed of Hank Aaron, Pat Gillick, Al Kaline, Ralph Kiner, Tommy Lasorda, Juan Marichal, Brooks Robinson, Billy Williams, Paul Beeston, Bill DeWitt, Roland Hemond, Gene Michael, Al Rosen, Dick Kaegel, Jack O'Connell, and Dave Van Dyck. They were charged with determining whether Santo would be elected to the National Baseball Hall of Fame's Class of 2012. Williams, Santo's long-time teammate and friend, had made a fresh case for Santo, emphasizing his personal struggle with diabetes during his career, and his post-retirement charitable work to try to find a cure. Santo received 15 of the 16 possible votes and was the only one of the ten Golden Era Ballot candidates to be elected to the Hall of Fame by the Committee's first vote. Santo's widow Vicki accepted the plaque on Induction Day, and spoke about his love of the Cubs and his devotion to sufferers of diabetes.\n\nSanto married Vicki in 1982 and they lived in Bannockburn, Illinois.\n\nSanto led the league in double plays six times (1961, 1964, 1966–68, 1971), tying the major league record held by Heinie Groh; Mike Schmidt also later tied this record. He led the National League in total chances every season from 1961 through 1968. He appeared at third base in every Cubs game from April 19, 1964 through May 31, 1966, establishing a league record with 364 consecutive games at the position; his 164 games at third base in 1965 remain the major league record.\n\nHe won the NL Player of the Month award three times: June 1963 (.384, 6 HR, 22 RBI); July 1964 (.395, 7 HR, 27 RBI); and June 1969 (.400, 6 HR, 34 RBI).\n\nSanto broke Eddie Mathews' NL record of 369 career double plays at third base in 1972, and in 1973 he broke Mathews' league records of 4,284 assists and 6,606 total chances. Schmidt passed Santo's record for double plays in 1986, his record for assists in 1987, and his mark for total chances in 1988. During his 14-season run with the Cubs, Santo hit 337 home runs, then the eighth most by a NL right-handed hitter; his 1,071 career walks with the Cubs remain the team record for a right-handed hitter. He was the first third baseman to hit 300 home runs and win five Gold Gloves, a feat since matched only by Schmidt and Scott Rolen.\n\nSanto became the first player in major league history to wear a batting helmet with protective ear flaps, when in 1966, in the midst of trying to break the Cubs' modern consecutive-game hitting streak record of 27 games (set by Hack Wilson in 1929), Santo was sidelined for nearly two weeks following a pitch thrown by the Mets' Jack Fisher. The beaning fractured his cheekbone and ended his consecutive playing streak. When he returned (and broke the hitting record with a 28-game streak) he was wearing an improvised ear flap on his batting helmet in order to protect the injury; ear flaps have since become standard equipment on batting helmets.\n\nIn 1999, he was named to the Cubs All-Century Team.\n\nOn September 28, 2003, Santo's jersey No. 10 was retired by the Cubs organization, making him the third player so honored behind his teammates Ernie Banks (#14) and Billy Williams (#26). Other prominent Cubs had worn No. 10 after Santo's retirement, notably Dave Kingman and Leon Durham; the most recent wearer had been interim manager Bruce Kimm, just the previous year. In April 2004, Santo was inducted into the inaugural class of the Washington Interscholastic Activities Association (Washington's high school athletics league) Hall of Fame as a graduate of Seattle's Franklin High School. About a month after Santo's death, Cubs Chairman Tom Ricketts announced that Santo would be honored by the Cubs in the 2011 season. From spring training through the end of the season, the Cubs wore a patch on the sleeve of their jersey with the number 10 on it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20716436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20716436", "title": "Thomas Tamm", "text": "Thomas Tamm\n\nThomas Tamm (born 1952) is a public defender in Washington County, Maryland. He formerly worked as an attorney in the United States Department of Justice (USDOJ) Office of Intelligence Policy and Review during 2004 when senior Justice officials responded to the warrantless NSA surveillance concerning eavesdropping on U.S. citizens. He was an anonymous whistleblower to \"The New York Times\", making the initial disclosures which led to reporters winning Pulitzer Prizes in 2006. Although Maryland agreed to drop ethics charges against him in 2009 relating to those disclosures, and the USDOJ announced it had dropped its investigation in 2011, the D.C. Office of Bar Counsel announced in January 2016 that it had brought disciplinary charges against Tamm relating to those events. Despite some controversy with respect to politicisation of that office and similar charges being brought to silence attorney whistleblowers especially beginning in 2014, Tamm in March 2016 agreed to public censure by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals in order to allow him to proceed with his life and career.\n\nThe son of a former assistant director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, nephew of another former FBI assistant director who became a U.S. Court of Appeals judge for the District of Columbia Circuit (Edward Allen Tamm), and brother of another career FBI agent, Tamm attended Brown University and graduated in 1974.\n\nAfter graduating from Georgetown Law School and being admitted to the bar, Tamm joined the state's attorney's office, and after gaining additional experience, joined the United States Department of Justice's Capital Case Unit, where he litigated death penalty cases. He eventually joined the Office of Intelligence Policy and Review, where he was liaison with the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance (FISA) Court.\n\nA \"New York Times\" article on December 16, 2005 exposing the warrantless NSA surveillance for the first time was based on his initial tip-offs. Reporters James Risen and Eric Lichtblau won a Pulitzer prize for that reporting in 2006.\n\nIn 2007, FBI agents raided Tamm's house. on suspicion of his involvement in leaking the details, but it was not until 2008 – online on December 13 and then in the December 22 issue of \"Newsweek\" – that his role was confirmed and Tamm began speaking out publicly.\n\nOn April 26, 2011, after inauguration of President Barack Obama (who had criticized the program) and a lengthy criminal investigation, the Justice Department announced that it would be dropping its investigation of Tamm and would not file charges.\n\nOn August 22, 2012 \"The New York Times\" published an \"Op-doc\" (a forum of short documentaries produced by independent filmmakers), produced by Laura Poitras and entitled, \"The Program\". The producer characterized it as preliminary work that would be included in a documentary planned for release in 2013, as the final part of the trilogy based on interviews with William Binney, a 32-year veteran of the National Security Agency, who also became a whistleblower and described the details of the Stellar Wind project that he helped to design. Binney stated that the program he worked on, the facility being built at Bluffdale, Utah, had been designed for foreign espionage, but in 2001 was converted to spying on citizens in the United States, prompting concerns by him and others that the actions were illegal and unconstitutional, which led to disclosures.\n\nOn October 29, 2012 the U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments regarding the constitutionality of the amendments to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) that were used to authorize the creation of such facilities and justify such actions. The determination of the court was not unanimous in \"James R. Clapper, Jr., Director Of National Intelligence, et al., Petitioners v. Amnesty International USA et al.\", as Justice Breyer filed a dissenting opinion, with whom Justice Ginsburg, Justice Sotomayor, and Justice Kagan joined.\n\nIn December 2013, the Public Broadcasting System's Frontline documentary series interviewed Tamm concerning the FISA Court.\n\nIn January, 2016, the District of Columbia Office of Disciplinary Counsel announced, first to the National Law Journal, that in December it had filed ethics charges against Tamm (a member of the D.C. Bar since 1978) as a result of an investigation that it claimed dated back to 2009, for violating the confidences of his then-client the U.S. Department of Justice. Whistleblower lawyers analogized this to the ongoing disciplinary case brought in 2014 upon a complaint by General Electric against Washington D.C. whistleblower lawyer Lynne Bernabei and Notre Dame Law School professor G. Robert Blakey for advising in-house counsel Adriana Koeck to make her disclosures publicly to a New York Times reporter, as well as to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and federal prosecutors. In December, the 80-year old and retired Blakey agreed to accept similar unappealable discipline with respect to his advice to former student Koeck. Tamm's attorney said the Maryland Bar had investigated Tamm for the same disclosures in 2009, and decided not to press charges. On March 24, 2016, the National Law Journal reported that Tamm had agreed to accept censure by the D.C. Court of Appeals to resolve that disciplinary proceeding and allow him to continue his life and career, rather than face the prospect of many years of litigation before many courts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54641026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54641026", "title": "Toyoji Aihara", "text": "Toyoji Aihara\n"}
{"id": "17317607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17317607", "title": "Turkey Tailfeather Woman", "text": "Turkey Tailfeather Woman\n\nTurkey Tailfeather Woman was a Dakota woman who is said to have given the Drum Dance to the Anishinaabe people. The Drum Dance is a set of spiritual beliefs that center on Turkey Tailfeather Woman and her escape from the American military, after which she built a large drum while in hiding. The religion spread throughout a large swathe of North America after about 1877. The drum used in the Drum Dance is the forerunner of the large drum used in modern powwows.\n\n"}
{"id": "37844352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37844352", "title": "United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)", "text": "United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP)\n\nThe United States Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) is a consortium of federal agencies and nonprofit organizations working together, both overseas and domestically, to identify and admit qualified refugees for resettlement into the United States. As a program, USRAP is tasked with some of the humanitarian efforts that the United States chooses to undertake. Every year, thousands of refugees are welcomed into the United States and given the opportunity to build a better life for themselves. In this way, USRAP demonstrates the commitment of a people to humanitarian principles.\n\nThe U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) claims that USRAP’s mission is \"to offer resettlement opportunities to persons overseas who are of special humanitarian concern, while protecting national security and combating fraud.\"\n\nThe goals of USRAP are as follows:\n\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. refugee resettlement program is based on the United States’ aspirations, which are compassion, generosity, and leadership and since 1975, over 3 million refugees from all over the world have been welcomed to the United States.\n\nIn response to the growing crisis in Europe posed by the rise of the Nazi party in Germany, private citizens took responsibility for the first refugee resettlement undertaken by the United States. Groups of concerned citizens worked to assist political, intellectual, cultural and scientific leaders who had fled the increasing repressive Fascist governments in Germany, Italy and Spain. Among those rescued in that initial group of refugees were the political scientist Hannah Arendt, the painter Marc Chagall, the novelist Franz Werfel, the philosopher Alfredo Mendizabal, the medical scientist Fritz Kahn, the sculptor Jacques Lipschitz, the historian Golo Mann, and the Nobel Prize–winning biochemist Otto Meyerhoff. Early actors in assisting refugees were the International Rescue Committee, the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS), and Church World Service (CWS) who assisted thousands of refugees resettle in cities throughout the United States before the end of 1946. In the early stage of refugee resettlement in the U.S., faith communities in the United States played a significant role in protecting refugees and in helping them resettle. These faith-based organizations focused on resettling refugees during World War II and immediately thereafter. (Note: this was before the 1951 UN Convention on the Status of Refugees and long before the U.S. ratified the 1967 Protocol.)\n\nThe U.S. government authorized refugee admissions on an ad hoc basis, designating specific populations for entry through \"erratic and unpredictable authorizations.\" The approach toward federal funding of refugee resettlement was similarly ad hoc. Generally speaking, the resettlement agencies provided the vast majority of the resources needed to support refugee. The Displaced Persons Act of 1948, the first refugee legislation enacted by U.S. Congress, provided for the admission of an additional 400,000 displaced Europeans. Previous to this Act, 250,000 displaced Europeans had already been admitted to the U.S. After the Displaced Persons Act of 1948, refugee admission laws evolved to accept people fleeing from communist regimes such as Hungary, Poland, Yugoslavia, North Korea, China, and Cuba. The refugees were usually supported by private (both ethnic, religious and secular) organizations, which formed the basis for the public/private role of U.S. refugee resettlement today. Notable resettlement efforts include the admission of 35,000 Hungarians who fled the crushing of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. Resettlement activities were coordinated by a civilian Committee for Hungarian Refugee Relief under the chairmanship of Mr. Tracey F. Voorhees. This Committee has coordinated all activities in connection with what was termed \"Operation Mercy.\" In the process it utilized the services of more than 20 volunteer and governmental agencies.\n\nAfter the fall of Vietnam in April 1975, the U.S. faced the challenge of resettling hundreds of thousands of displaced Indochinese refugees. They established an Indochinese refugee task force to respond to this crisis. After this situation, Congress realized it needed to create procedures that would deal with the ongoing resettlement of refugees and therefore passed the Refugee Act of 1980. Since 1975, over three million refugees have been resettled in the U.S., with annual admissions figures ranging from a high of 207,000 in 1980 to a low of 27,110 in 2002. The average number admitted annually since 1980 is 98,000.\n\nCongress passed the Refugee Act of 1980, which standardized the resettlement services of all refugees in the U.S. This act incorporates the definition of \"refugee\" used in the UN Protocol, provides for a regular flow of admittants, and has a contingency for emergency admissions of refugees. It also authorizes federal assistance for the resettlement of refugees.\n\nToday, USRAP comprises professional staffs from both religious and secular agencies working together in local communities. These groups both assist refugees with local integration and ensure that they have access to available services.\n\nEach year the President of the United States—after consulting with Congress and the appropriate agencies—determines the designated nationalities and processing priorities for refugee resettlement for the upcoming year. As of 2011, USRAP sponsored over 56,000 refugees in the U.S. According to the Proposed Refugee Admissions for 2012, the U.S. has addressed refugees’ challenges after their arrival and has responded to their needs. As a part of these efforts, the National Security Staff (NSS) tried to recognize issues and find interagency solutions. This implementation resulted in a noticeable increase in the one-time per capita Reception and Placement Grant administered by the Department of State in FY 2010. In FY 2011, the Department of State/PRM and the Department of Health and Human Service/IRR developed more \"timely information on refugee arrivals and can better manage their work\" and will keep co-leading this effort.\n\nOn January 27, 2017, President Donald Trump issued (Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States) suspending the USRAP program for 120 days. On April 25, 2017, United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California William Orrick III ruled that Trump exceeded his presidential authority when he signed EO 13768 on January 25, 2017, directing his administration to withhold all federal funding from local jurisdictions deemed to be \"sanctuary jurisdictions\" including \"sanctuary cities\" by issuing a preliminary injunction. Judge Orrick subsequently issued a nationwide permanent injunction on November 20, 2017, declaring that section 9(a) of Executive Order 13768 was \"unconstitutional on its face\" and violates \"the separation of powers doctrine and deprives [the plaintiffs] of their Tenth and Fifth Amendment rights.\" United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Virginia, refused on May 25, 2017 to reinstate the ban, citing religious discrimination. On June 1, 2017, the Trump administration appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court for the cancellation of the preliminary injunctions and to allow the order to go into effect while the court looks at its ultimate legality later in the year. On June 26, 2017, the Supreme Court partially lifted the halt and will hear oral arguments for the petition to vacate the injunctions in the fall.\n\nOn March 6, 2017, President Trump issued (Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States) which revoked EO 13769. (Enhancing Vetting Capabilities and Processes for Detecting Attempted Entry Into the United States by Terrorists or Other Public-Safety Threats)of September 24, 2017, supplements EO 13780 of March 6, 2017. On October 17, 2017, Judge Derrick Watson, of the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii issued another temporary restraining order that was asked by the state of Hawaii. Watson's decision noted that the latest ban “suffers from precisely the same maladies as its predecessor” as it “plainly discriminates based on nationality” and as such violates federal law and “the founding principles of this Nation.”\n\nOn October 24, 2017, President Trump issued (Resuming the United States Refugee Admissions Program with Enhanced Vetting Capabilities). On December 4, 2017, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that EO 13815 could go into full effect until the legal appeals are being weighed in the lower courts.\n\nAs was stated earlier, USRAP is not in the hands of any one particular agency of the federal government. Rather, it is a collaborative effort among many different agencies and departments of the federal government as well as a number of nonprofit organizations. According to the U.S. Department of State website, three entities make up the federal arm of the USRAP program: USCIS, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security; the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, which is part of the Department of State; and the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is part of the Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nUSCIS is responsible for activities that could be termed the \"legal side\" of USRAP operations. For example, it processes applications for refugee admission to the United States and applications for permanent residency. It also issues documents that permit refugees to return to the United States after traveling abroad. Although USCIS is involved in humanitarian efforts by virtue of its inclusion in USRAP, the organization plays more of an incidental processing role than a humanitarian one.\n\nAs part of the U.S. Department of State, the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration is primarily responsible for USRAP’s operations abroad. According to the Bureau’s website, its roughly 130 staff members perform primarily pass-through operations where they do not work directly with refugees. Rather, they work through other organizations such as the International Rescue Committee and other various intergovernmental organizations so as to provide services to refugees. The Bureau also processes applications for refugee resettlement to the United States.\n\nWhereas the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration primarily handles the foreign-based portions of USRAP and USCIS works with admissions and legal issues, the Office of Refugee Resettlement \"provide[s] new populations with the opportunity to maximize their potential in the United States.\"\n\nThe Office of Refugee Resettlement plays a particularly important role within USRAP. Bringing refugees into the United States and processing their documents is quite a different thing from assisting those same refugees in living and working in a new and foreign culture. This is the task of the Office of Refugee Resettlement.\n\nNonprofits play a special role in USRAP. There are ten nonprofits appointed to work with the nation in either refugee referrals or in refugee resettlement. The nine non-profits currently working with USRAP are listed below:\n\nThese nine nonprofits have some 360 affiliated offices across the nation. Each nonprofit provides help for refugees to become self-sufficient after their arrival in the United States. Specifically, each nonprofit provides housing, food, clothing, enrollment in school, English language classes, employment, health screenings, and other public services. The following descriptions detail the unique contributions of two of the USRAP-involved nonprofits: the Church World Service and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.\n\nChurch World Service works with eight different denominations, the United Methodist Church, United Church of Christ, Reformed Church in America, Presbyterian Church (USA), Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Episcopal Church, the Cooperative Baptist Fellowship, and Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). Along with the basic public services provided by every nonprofit, the Church World Service administers the Religious Services Program, a program which helps refugees continue to practice their religion in the U.S. (regardless of the individual refugee’s specific religious practices).\n\nHIAS (founded as the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society) works within the Jewish Communal Network Commission to provide basic services to refugees. HIAS created the Refugee Family Enrichment program that addresses the problems a refugee family may face during resettlement. As part of their resettlement program through USRAP, HIAS teaches communication and conflict resolution skills that help families work through the difficulties of resettlement.\n\nDuring FY 2011, USRAP received $302 million from the federal government to fund its programs. That number will increase by over 25 percent (to $417 million) in FY 2012 and then drop back down to $310 million in FY 2013. According to the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, some of these monies are used to \"[fund] ten public and private non-profit organizations to help provide initial services and assist refugees to achieve economic self-sufficiency as quickly as possible.\"\n\nAccording to USRAP, \"A refugee is someone who has fled from his or her home country and cannot return because he or she has a well-founded fear of persecution based on religion, race, nationality, political opinion or membership in a particular social group.\" Once a refugee has fled their country into a neighboring country, there is a five-step process before they can be legally admitted into the United States of America. The process normally takes about eight months to a year. Once a refugee has been admitted to the United States, it is the responsibility of the sponsoring organization to help them adapt to their new life. It is the hope that they will be enfolded into their community and become an asset to the country.\n\nAs touched on above, much of the literature on USRAP challenges the efficacy of the program’s cash assistance efforts. A recent study conducted by Columbia University argued that the programs failure to take individual circumstances into account when providing cash assistance has led to most of the problem:\nThis same article goes on to point out the varying degree of assistance from state-to-state creates a random allocation of assistance for refugees. Depending on their location, some refugees are given transportation assistance, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) support, and local community assistance as well while other refugees are given the bare minimum of federal funding. This inequitable allocation leads to the successful integration of some refugees while others are left behind.\n\nThe purpose of cash assistance is to help refugees find employment. This goal, however, is frequently not achieved. \"…The cash assistance received was not enough to cover basic expenses and often ran out long before employment was secured.\" One of the main issues with refugee employment is that there is simply not enough time or money to support a thorough job search. The time allotted for support is eight months, however, the paper quoted above claimed that in reality the support lasts six months or less. This lack of time and funding results in a push for quick, insufficient employment rather than full, sustaining careers.\n\nRefugees are pushed toward short-term jobs, simply to get them employed. This ignores individual refugees abilities, past education, and professional experience. The reason behind this push is that the goal is not that of long-term self-sustainability, but rather of self-sustainability by the end of the \"eight\"-month refugee assistance. The result is that the program turns into a machine bent on churning out integrated refugees. This method is inefficient because more refugees must then rely on the government over the long-term through welfare programs.\n\nThese short-term jobs have above minimum wage pay, but the average wage per hour for full-time workers obtained by refugees within four months of arrival was $8.67 in 2009. This rate is insufficient for refugees who provide for their families. Many face eviction and eventual unemployment. This quick employment issue greatly affects the refugees’ ability to be self-sustaining.\" In fiscal year 2007, ORR’s performance data show that between 59 percent and 65 percent of all refugees receiving cash assistance from ORR’s four assistance programs entered employment within 4 to 8 months of coming to the United States. There are mechanisms in place to allow for refugees to transfer their professional degrees; however, these transfers require recertification that costs as much as $1,000.\n\nIf a refugee cannot speak English, their job possibilities decrease. \"The ability to speak English can greatly facilitate a refugee’s chances of finding employment.\" USRAP does provide English language classes. There is, however, a wide array of problems with these classes: inadequate facilities, no longevity, poor teacher quality, and lack of transportation to classes.\n\nBecause of these issues, most refugees are not getting the English language training they need to achieve self-sustainability. The literature focused mainly on the problems with facilities and transportation.\n\nAccording to Table 2, 58 percent of the incoming refugees could not speak English. This indicates that there is a great need for English language training among the refugees.\n\nBecause of the large percentage of refugees that need English classes, facilities are not expansive enough to cover the need. As stated above, another barrier to English acquisition is the lack of transport to classes. Because refugees do not have a way to get to the classes, they do not go to the classes and thus they do not learn English. \"Limited funding means training provision typically stops at English language training during the early resettlement period\". This correlates directly with the refugee’s ability to obtain employment. Approximately 90 percent of refugees who were living on government welfare programs did not speak English.\n\nIn addition to employment assistance, USRAP is also responsible for the health, both mental and physical, of refugees entering the United States. According to our bylaws, refugee resettlement agencies are \"... authorized to fund social services projects designed to provide, where specific needs have been shown and recognized by the Director, health (including mental health) services, social services, educational and other services.\"\n\nThis responsibility becomes a problem when a high percentage of entering refugees have health issues. As the literature points out, this is a growing reality for the United States, \"The number of refugees with chronic untreated medical and mental health conditions continues to grow. Needy refugees who do not qualify for Medicaid are limited to up to eight months of Refugee Medical Assistance (RMA).\" There are reasons for why so many refugees suffer from poor mental and physical health:\n\nBecause the United States has admitted an increased number of refugees who have spent many years living in difficult conditions, such as refugee camps, a larger proportion of recently arrived refugees have health and other issues that make it difficult for them to work and achieve self-sufficiency. Because of these changes in refugee populations, [resettlement programs] faced difficulties in estimating the costs of serving newly arrived refugees, which, in turn, has affected the agency’s unobligated balances.\n\nMental health issues are also on the rise because of the high number of Iraqi refugees being admitted to the United States. For whatever reason, Iraqi refugees have per capita higher instances of trauma and mental illness than other refugees.\n\nAs one article posited, this rise in mental illness among refugees calls for better training for psychologists in working with diverse populations: \"The diversity of the refugee population in the United States requires practicing psychologists to respond by adapting clinical services to meet their mental health needs.\" Hopefully with better training, psychologists of refugees will be able to better address their specific health needs. USRAP has an obligation to improve health services for the incoming refugee population.\n\nAt times, United States foreign policy has had negative implications for the lives of the refugees USRAP aims to serve. Although official United States procedure states that foreign policy should have no impact on refugee admissions, this has not always been the case. For example, on September 11, 2001, a number of Afghan refugees were scheduled to arrive in the United States. Not surprisingly, those plans did not move forward. Particularly troubling are the patterns displayed early after the invasion of Afghanistan and Iraq. During this period, the United States greatly reduced the number of refugees admitted from both of these locations. This course of action (as one writer claims) was likely used to portray that the conditions in Afghanistan and Iraq \"[were] improving.\"\n\nThis use of refugee admissions programs to further national interests is, unfortunately, not uncommon. Legislation regarding refugee admissions written after World War II excluded large numbers of refugees (including ninety percent of Jewish refugees) from being eligible for resettlement in the United States. This treatment was justified by some because of fears concerning the refugees’ possible impacts on the American economy. During the Cold War, the United States used refugee admissions policy largely as a propaganda tool in an attempt to discredit communism by granting asylum to those seeking to escape communist nations.\n\nHowever, the interplay between United States refugee admissions and foreign policy is not entirely one-sided. A 2012 USRAP report to Congress states that United States involvement in discussions and actions concerning refugee resettlement have given the United States the opportunity to advance human-rights as well as influence other countries to be more open to accepting refugees. The example given in the report is that of Bhutanese refugees. Because the United States offered resettlement, other countries demonstrated a greater willingness to accept refugees as well.\n\nAlong with its foreign policy problems, the literature points out that USRAP has had issues with its domestic policies as well. A report, \"Abandoned Upon Arrival: Implications for Refugees and Local Communities Burdened by a U.S. Resettlement System That is not Working\", points out that local communities have confronted many challenges due to refugees resettlement. In the study, seven main findings were reported concerning the local resettlement communities.\n\nFirst, the federal government uses \"faith-based groups,\" for refugee placement. The local communities that receive the refugees are not included in the decision-making process. Receiving new refugees into a community requires numerous resources from the local government, but these local governments are not given enough funding from the federal government. They are also not informed as to how many new refugees they are going to receive. This has been a heavy burden for the local governments.\n\nSecond, the refugees’ language barriers, caused by lack of adequate language instruction, prevent the refugees from communicating effectively concerning important issues such as health. USDHS conducted a study in 2008, showing that the better language skills refugees have, the better outcomes they obtain.\n\nThird, the local school administrators are frustrated that the poor performance of the new refugee students negatively affects the school’s reputation. These schools are also upset that the government does not provide additional funding to assist or improve this situation.\n\nFourth, regardless of each refugee’s situation in regards to education, health, or psychological background, the government has applied a \"one-size-fits-all assistance\" approach. This impedes the local governments’ ability to accommodate the refugees according to their needs, and to prepare or teach them in areas that they are weak.\n\nFifth, while the Federal Government has increased funding for refugees, this does not fix the current problems. The extra money only creates a delaying effect on \"the incidence of poverty.\"\n\nSixth, insufficient funding after initial support for resettlement has created a difficult economic climate for the local communities. Also, the fundamental structure to support the refugee program has not been proven effective.\n\nSeventh, the federal government has established an ineffective resettlement system that imposes burdens on local governments. The current resettlement system not only is a burden, but also inhibits services for other refugees who have already been resettled.\n\nIn order to help the cities and refugees with these problems, this study suggests seven strategies for improvement: (1) ensure the local leaders involvement in decision making processes, (2) provide better language courses, (3) establishing strategies in education, (4) remove \"one-size-fits-all assistance\", (5) improve accountability, (6) search for innovative models, and (7) promote community engagement.\n\nProgram fragmentation and lack of cohesion among different agencies produces challenges unnecessary burdens for those who are intended to benefit from the program.\n\nMany of these problems associated with USRAP begin with a lack of information sharing between the agencies involved. Much of the information gathered from refugees is not shared between agencies to ensure that the placement meets the needs of the refugee. For the most part, this information is only used to assess refugee admissibility into the resettlement program. At no point during the resettlement process does a government employee or contracted party have the responsibility to investigate and report \"the presence of a needs-related vulnerability for the purposes of ensuring post-arrival assistance. Instead, such information is only gathered to help support the individual’s persecution claim.\"\n\nSimilarly, medical examinations and interviews of refugees performed by the USCIS overseas are not used to determine the health and resettlement needs of the refugee. Rather, this information is used to assess the admissibility of the refugee. In fact, resettlement agencies must make placement decisions before they even receive the medical records of refugees.\n\nOne of the most crucial factors to the success of refugees is where they are placed in United States. Even though the most vulnerable populations are being targeted for resettlement, these vulnerabilities are not being communicated to the placing agencies. No structured system exists in USRAP for the collecting and distributing of refugee information for planning purposes. This failure to share information down the resettlement chain hurts the resettled refugees and the success of USRAP.\n\nBecause critical information is not always considered when a placement decision is made, it is not surprising that many refugees leave the locations of original placement to look for better opportunities elsewhere. In many instances, refugees will seek out communities of fellow country-of-origin nationals. Current legislation recognizes this secondary migration as a \"natural and expected phenomenon.\" However, there are no tools or tracking system in place to manage this phenomenon. USRAP takes no measures in anticipating foreseeable trends in secondary migration by refugees. When refugees move, they get lost in the system and their federal assistance money does not follow them. Consequently, these secondary migration refugees lose out on a part of their eight months of cash and medical treatment.\n\nThe current literature offers many recommendations to improve the administration of USRAP. An information sharing mechanism could be instituted since none currently exists. The PRM needs to expand the information it provides to placing agencies so that refugees have a better chance to be relocated in an area that will offer them the best possible care and services. It has also been suggested that refugees be consulted on decisions that affect them so that services and placement can be tailored to their needs.\n\nIn addition, more than one article recommended that USRAP identify one lead agency to coordinate all the agencies and organizations involved in the program. This agency could then monitor the efficiency and effectiveness of the program and establish consistent policies and procedures in the resettlement process. This renovated system should be flexible enough to account for secondary migration. Refugees should not be penalized with a loss of federal assistance just because they exercise their right to relocate.\n"}
{"id": "177428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177428", "title": "Wife", "text": "Wife\n\nA wife is a female partner in a continuing marital relationship.\n\nThe term continues to be applied to a woman who has separated from her partner, and ceases to be applied to such a woman only when her marriage has come to an end, following a legally recognized divorce or the death of her spouse. On the death of her partner, a wife is referred to as a widow, but not after she is divorced from her partner.\n\nThe rights and obligations of a wife in relation to her partner and her status in the community and in law vary between cultures and have varied over time.\n\nThe word is of Germanic origin, from Proto-Germanic *\"wībam\", \"woman\". In Middle English it had the form \"wif\", and in Old English \"wīf\", \"woman or wife\". It is related to Modern German \"Weib\" (woman, female), and Danish \"viv\" (wife, usually poetic) and may derive ultimately from the Indo-European root \"ghwībh-\" \"shame; pudenda\" (cf. Tocharian B \"kwīpe\" and Tocharian A \"kip\", each meaning \"female pudenda\", with clear sexual overtones). The original meaning of the phrase \"wife\" as simply \"woman\", unconnected with marriage or a husband/wife, is preserved in words such as \"midwife\" and \"fishwife\".\n\nIn many cultures, marriage is generally expected that a woman will take her husband's surname, though that is not universal. A married woman may indicate her marital status in a number of ways: in Western culture a married woman would commonly wear a wedding ring but in other cultures other markers of marital status may be used. A married woman is commonly given the honorific title \"Mrs\", but some married women prefer to be referred to as \"Ms\", a title which is also used when the marital status of a woman is unknown.\n\nA woman on her wedding day is usually described as a \"bride\", even after the \"wedding ceremony\", while being described as a wife is also appropriate after the wedding or after the honeymoon. Her partner is known as the \"bridegroom\" during the wedding, and within the marriage is called her \"husband\".\n\nIn the older custom, still followed, e. g., by Roman Catholic ritual, the word \"bride\" actually means fiancée and applies up to the exchange of matrimonial consent (the actual marriage act); from then on, even while the rest of the very ceremony is ongoing, the woman is a wife, and no longer a bride, and the bridal couple is no longer referred to as such but as the newlywed couple.\n\n\"Wife\" refers to the institutionalized relation \"to the other spouse\", unlike mother, a term that puts a woman into the context of her children. In some societies, especially historically, a \"concubine\" was a woman who was in an ongoing, usually matrimonially oriented relationship with a man who could not be married to her, often because of a difference in social status.\n\nThe term \"wife\" is most commonly applied to a woman in a union sanctioned by law (including religious law), not to a woman in an informal cohabitation relationship, which may be known as a girlfriend, partner, cohabitant, significant other, concubine, mistress etc. However, a woman in a so-called common law marriage may describe herself as a common law wife, de facto wife, or simply a wife. Those seeking to advance gender neutrality may refer to both marriage partners as \"spouses\", and many countries and societies are rewording their statute law by replacing \"wife\" and \"husband\" with \"spouse\". A former wife whose spouse is deceased is a \"widow\".\n\nThe status of a wife may be terminated by divorce, annulment, or the death of a spouse. In the case of divorce, terminology such as \"former-wife\" or \"ex-wife\" is often used. With regard to annulment, such terms are not, strictly speaking, correct, because annulment, unlike divorce, is usually retroactive, meaning that an annulled marriage is considered to be invalid from the beginning almost as if it had never taken place. In the case of the death of the other spouse, the term used is widow. The social status of such women varies by culture, but in some places, they may be subject to potentially harmful practices, such as widow inheritance or levirate marriage; or divorced women may be socially stigmatized. In some cultures, the termination of the status of wife made life itself meaningless, as in the case of those cultures that practiced sati, a funeral ritual within some Asian communities, in which a recently widowed woman committed suicide by fire, typically on the husband's funeral pyre.\n\nThe legal rights of a wife have been since the 19th century, and still are, in many jurisdictions subject to debate. This subject was in particular addressed by John Stuart Mill, in \"The Subjection of Women\" (1869). Historically, many societies have given sets of rights and obligations to husbands that have been very different from the sets of rights and obligations given to wives. In particular, the control of marital property, inheritance rights, and the right to dictate the activities of children of the marriage, have typically been given to male marital partners. However, this practice was curtailed to a great deal in many countries in the twentieth century, and more modern statutes tend to define the rights and duties of a spouse without reference to gender. Among the last European countries to establish full gender equality in marriage were Switzerland, Greece, Spain, and France in the 1980s. In various marriage laws around the world, however, the husband continues to have authority; for instance the Civil Code of Iran states at Article 1105: \"In relations between husband and wife; the position of the head of the family is the exclusive right of the husband\".\n\nTraditionally, and still in some parts of the world, the bride or her family bring her husband a \"dowry\", or the husband or his family pay a \"bride price\" to the bride's family, or both are exchanged between the families; or the husband pays the wife a \"dower\". The purpose of the dowry varies by culture and has varied historically. In some cultures, it was paid not only to support the establishment of a new family, but also served as a condition that if the husband committed grave offenses upon his wife, the dowry had to be returned to the wife or her family; but during the marriage, the dowry was often made inalienable by the husband. Today, dowries continue to be expected in parts of South Asia such as India, Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, and conflicts related to their payment sometimes result in violence such as dowry deaths and bride burning.\n\nIn some cultures, particularly in the Anglophone West, wives often change their surnames to that of the husband upon getting married. For some, this is a controversial practice, due to its tie to the historical doctrine of coverture and to the historically subordinated roles of wives. Others argue that today this is merely a harmless tradition that should be accepted as a free choice. Some jurisdictions consider this practice as discriminatory and contrary to women's rights, and have restricted or banned it; for example, since 1983, when Greece adopted a new marriage law which guaranteed gender equality between the spouses, women in Greece are required to \"keep\" their birth names for their whole life.\n\nTraditionally, and still in many cultures, the role of a wife was closely tied to that of a mother, by a strong expectation that a wife ought to bear children, while, conversely, an unmarried woman should not have a child out of wedlock. These views have changed in many parts of the world. Children born outside marriage have become more common in many countries.\n\nAlthough some wives in particular in Western countries choose not to have children, such a choice is not accepted in some parts of the world. In northern Ghana, for example, the payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control are at risk of threats and coercion. In addition, some religions are interpreted as requiring children in marriage; for instance Pope Francis said in 2015 that choosing not to have children was \"selfish\".\n\nMany traditions like a dower, dowry and bride price have long traditions in antiquity. The exchange of any item or value goes back to the oldest sources, and the wedding ring likewise was always used as a symbol for keeping faith to a person.\n\nChristian cultures claim to be guided by the New Testament in regard to their view on the position of a wife in society as well as her marriage. For example, the New Testament condemns divorce for both men and women (1 Cor 7:10–11), and assumes monogamy on the part of the husband: the woman is to have her \"own\" husband, and the husband was to have his \"own\" wife (1 Cor 7:2). In medieval Christianity, this was understood to mean that a wife should not share a husband with other wives. As a result, divorce was relatively uncommon in the pre-modern West, particularly in the medieval and early modern period, and husbands in the Roman, later medieval and early modern period did not publicly take more than one wife.\n\nIn pre-modern times, it was unusual to marry for love alone, although it became an ideal in literature by the early modern period. Roman law required brides to be at least 12 years old, a standard adopted by Catholic canon law. In Roman law, first marriages to brides aged 12–25 required the consent of the bride and her father, but by the late antique period Roman law permitted women over 25 to marry without parental consent. The New Testament allows a widow to marry any Christian she chooses (1 Cor 7:39). In the 12th century, the Catholic Church drastically changed legal standards for marital consent by allowing daughters over 12 and sons over 14 to marry without their parents' approval, even if their marriage was made clandestinely. Parish studies have confirmed that late medieval women did sometimes marry against their parents' approval. The Catholic Church's policy of considering clandestine marriages and marriages made without parental consent to be valid was controversial, and in the 16th century both the French monarchy and the Lutheran church sought to end these practices, with limited success.\n\nThe New Testament made no pronouncements about wives' property rights, which in practice were influenced more by secular laws than religion. Most influential in the pre-modern West was the civil law, except in English-speaking countries where English common law emerged in the High Middle Ages. In addition, local customary law influenced wives' property rights; as a result wives' property rights in the pre-modern West varied widely from region to region. Because wives' property rights and daughters' inheritance rights varied widely from region to region due to differing legal systems, the amount of property a wife might own varied greatly. Under Roman law, daughters inherited equally from their parents if no will was produced, under the English common law system, which dates to the later medieval period, daughters and younger sons were usually excluded from landed property if no will was produced. In addition, Roman law recognized wives' property as legally separate from husbands's property, as did some legal systems in parts of Europe and colonial Latin America. In contrast, English common law moved to a system where a wife with a living husband (\"feme couvert\") could own little property in her own name. Unable to easily support herself, marriage was very important to most women's economic status. This problem has been dealt with extensively in literature, where the most important reason for women's limited power was the denial of equal education and equal property rights for females. The situation was assessed by the English conservative moralist Sir William Blackstone: \"The husband and wife are one, and the husband is the one.\" Married women's property rights in the English-speaking world improved with the Married Women's Property Act 1882 and similar legal changes, which allowed wives with living husbands to own property in their own names. Until late in the 20th century, women could in some regions or times sue a man for wreath money when he took her virginity without taking her as his wife.\n\nIf a woman did not want to marry, another option was entering a convent as a nun. to become a \"bride of Christ\", a state in which her chastity and economic survival would be protected. Both a wife and a nun wore veils, which proclaimed their state of protection by the rights of marriage. Much more significant than the option of becoming a nun, was the option of non-religious spinsterhood in the West. As first demonstrated quantitatively by John Hajnal, in the 19th and early 20th centuries the percentage of non-clerical Western women who never married was typically as high as 10–15%, a prevalence of female celibacy never yet documented for any other major traditional civilization. In addition, early modern Western women married at quite high ages (typically mid to late 20s) relative to other major traditional cultures. The high age at first marriage for Western women has been shown by many parish reconstruction studies to be a traditional Western marriage pattern that dates back at least as early as the mid-16th century.\n\nIn the 20th century, the role of the wife in Western marriage changed in two major ways; the first was the breakthrough from an \"institution to companionate marriage\"; for the first time, wives became distinct legal entities, and were allowed their own property and allowed to sue. Until then, partners were a single legal entity, but only a husband was allowed to exercise this right. The second change was the drastic alteration of middle and upper-class family life, when in the 1960s these wives began to work outside their home, and with the social acceptance of divorces the single-parent family, and stepfamily or \"blended family\" as a more \"individualized marriage\".\n\nToday, a woman may wear a wedding ring in order to show her status as a wife.\n\nIn Western countries today, married women usually have an education, a profession and they (or their husbands) can take time off from their work in a legally procured system of ante-natal care, statutory maternity leave, and they may get maternity pay or a maternity allowance. The status of marriage, as opposed to unmarried pregnant women, allows the spouse to be responsible for the child, and to speak on behalf of their wife; a partner is also responsible for the wife's child in states where they are automatically assumed to be the biological legal parent. Vice versa, a wife has more legal authority in some cases when she speaks on behalf of a spouse than she would have if they were not married, e.g. when her spouse is in a coma after an accident, a wife may have the right of advocacy. If they divorce, she also might receive—or pay—alimony (see Law and divorce around the world).\n\nWomen in Islam have a range of rights and obligations (see main article Rights and obligations of spouses in Islam). Marriage takes place on the basis of a marriage contract. The arranged marriage is relatively common in traditionalist families, whether in Muslim countries or as first or second generation immigrants elsewhere.\n\nWomen in general are supposed to wear specific clothes, as stated by the hadith, like the hijab, which may take different styles depending on the culture of the country, where traditions may seep in. The husband must pay a \"mahr\" to the bride, which is similar to the dower.\n\nTraditionally, the wife in Islam is seen as a protected, chaste person that manages the household and the family. She has the ever important role of raising the children and bringing up the next generation of Muslims. In Islam, it is highly recommended that the wife remains at home although they are fully able to own property or work. The husband is obligated to spend on the wife for all of her needs while she is not obligated to spend even if she is wealthy. Muhammad is said to have commanded all Muslim men to treat their wives well. There is a Hadith by Al-Tirmidhi, in which Muhammad is said to have stated \"The believers who show the most perfect faith are those who have the best character and the best of you are those who are best to their wives.\"\n\nTraditionally, Muslim married women are not distinguished from unmarried women by an outward symbol (such as a wedding ring). However, women's wedding rings have recently been adopted in the past thirty years from the Western culture.\n\nIn Indo-Aryan languages, a wife is known as \"Patni\", which means a woman who shares everything in this world with her husband and he does the same, including their identity. Decisions are ideally made in mutual consent. A wife usually takes care of anything inside her household, including the family's health, the children's education, a parent's needs.\n\nThe majority of Hindu marriages in rural and traditional India are arranged marriages. Once they find a suitable family (family of same caste, culture and financial status), the boy and the girl see and talk to each other to decide the final outcome. In recent times however the western culture has had significant influence and the new generations are more open to the idea of marrying for love.\n\nIndian law has recognized rape, sexual, emotional or verbal abuse of a woman by her husband as crimes. \nIn Hinduism, a wife is known as a \"Patni\" or \"Ardhangini\" (similar to \"the better half\") meaning a part of the husband or his family. In Hinduism, a woman or man can get married, but only have one husband or wife respectively.\n\nIn India, women may wear vermillion powder on their foreheads, an ornament called Mangalsutra (Hindi मंगलसूत्र ) which is a form of necklace, or rings on their toes (which are not worn by single women) to show their status as married women.\n\nChina's family laws were changed by the Communist revolution; and in 1950, the People's Republic of China enacted a comprehensive marriage law including provisions giving the spouses equal rights with regard to ownership and management of marital property.\n\nIn Japan, before enactment of the Meiji Civil Code of 1898, all of the woman's property such as land or money passed to her husband except for personal clothing and a mirror stand. See Women in Japan, Law of Japan\n\nThere is a widely held expectation, which has existed for most of recorded history and in most cultures, that a wife is not to have sexual relations with anyone other than her legal husband. A breach of this expectation of fidelity is commonly referred to as adultery or extramarital sex. Historically, adultery has been considered to be a serious offense, sometimes a crime, and even a sin. Even if that is not so, it may still have legal consequences, particularly as a ground for a divorce. Adultery may be a factor to consider in a property settlement, it may affect the status of children, the custody of children; moreover, adultery can result in social ostracism in some parts of the world. \nIn addition, affinity rules of the Christian Church, of Judaism and of Islam prohibit an ex-wife or widow from engaging in sexual relations with and from marrying a number of relatives of the former husband.\n\nIn parts of the world, adultery may result in violent acts, such as honor killings or stoning. Some jurisdictions, especially those that apply Sharia law, allow for such acts to take place legally.\n\nAs of September 2010, stoning is a legal punishment in countries such as Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Iran, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates, and some states in Nigeria as punishment for zina al-mohsena (\"adultery of married persons\").\n\n"}
