{"id": "32132070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32132070", "title": "Al-Ghafiqi", "text": "Al-Ghafiqi\n\nAl-Ghafiqi may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1601721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1601721", "title": "Berl Katznelson", "text": "Berl Katznelson\n\nBerl Katznelson (, 25 January 1887 – 12 August 1944) was one of the intellectual founders of Labor Zionism, instrumental to the establishment of the modern state of Israel, and the editor of \"Davar\", the first daily newspaper of the workers' movement.\n\nKatznelson was born in Babruysk, Russian Empire (nowadays Belarus), the son of a member of Hovevei Zion. He dreamed of settling in the Jewish homeland from an early age. In Russia, he was a librarian in a Hebrew-Yiddish library and taught Hebrew literature and Jewish history. He made \"aliyah\" to Ottoman Palestine in 1909, where he worked in agriculture and took an active role in organizing workers' federations based on the idea of \"common work, life and aspirations.\"\n\nTogether with his cousin, Yitzhak Tabenkin, Katznelson was one of the founding fathers of the Israeli workers union, the Histadrut. In this capacity, together with Meir Rothberg of the Kinneret Farm, Katznelson founded in 1916 the consumer co-operative known as Hamashbir with the goal of supplying the Jewish communities of Palestine with food at affordable prices during the terrible shortage years of the First World War. He helped to establish the Clalit Health Services sick fund, a major fixture in Israel's network of socialized medicine. In 1925, together with Moshe Beilinson, Katznelson established the Davar daily newspaper, and became its first editor, a position he held until his death, as well as becoming the founder and first editor-in-chief of the Am Oved publishing house.\nKatznelson was well known for his desire for peaceful coexistence between Arabs and Jews in Israel. He was an outspoken opponent of the Peel Commission's partition plan for Palestine. He stated:I do not wish to see the realization of Zionism in the form of the new Polish state with Arabs in the position of the Jews and the Jews in the position of the Poles, the ruling people. For me this would be the complete perversion of the Zionist ideal...\n\nOur generation has been witness to the fact that nations aspiring to freedom who threw off the yoke of subjugation rushed to place this yoke on the shoulders of others. Over the generations in which we were persecuted and exiled and slaughtered, we learned not only the pain of exile and subjugation, but also contempt for tyranny. Was that only a case of sour grapes? Are we now nurturing the dream of slaves who wish to reign?\n\nKatznelson also spoke of Jewish self-hatred, saying:\"Is there another People on Earth so emotionally twisted that they consider everything their nation does despicable and hateful, while every murder, rape, robbery committed by their enemies fill their hearts with admiration and awe?\"\n\nKatznelson died of an aneurysm in 1944 and was buried at his request in the cemetery on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, next to Sarah Shmukler.\n\nIn her biography, Golda Meir remembers Berl Katznelson as a pivotal figure in the life of the Jewish community in Palestine: \"Berl was not at all physically impressive. He was small, his hair was always untidy, his clothes always looked rumpled. But his lovely smile lit up his face, and [he] looked right through you, so that no one who ever talked to Berl forgot him. I think of him as I saw him, hundreds of times, buried in a shabby old armchair in one of the two book-lined rooms in which he lived in the heart of old Tel-Aviv, where everyone came to see him and where he worked (because he hated going to an office). 'Berl would like you to stop by' was like a command that no one disobeyed. Not that he held court or ever gave orders, but nothing was done, no decision of any importance to the Labour movement in particular or the yishuv in general, was taken without Berl's opinion being sought first.\"\n\nKatznelson is commemorated in many places, in name. Beit Berl near Tzofit, Ohalo (lit. \"his tent\") on Sea of Galilee, and Kibbutz Be'eri (which takes Katznelson's literary name). Many streets throughout Israel are named in his memory, including one High School in Kfar-Saba. Israeli Postal Service issued a Berl Katzenelson commemorative stamp.\n\n"}
{"id": "3101120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3101120", "title": "Bhawal case", "text": "Bhawal case\n\nThe Bhawal case was an extended Indian court case about a person who claimed to be the prince of Bhawal, who was presumed dead a decade earlier.\n\nRamendra Narayan Roy was one of the kumars (\"prince\") of the Bhawal Estate, a large zamindari in Bengal in modern-day Bangladesh. He was one of three brothers who had inherited the estate from their father. He was popularly known to people as \"mejokumar\". The Bhawal Estate spread over and included villages with a population of around 500.000, many of them tenant farmers.The second son Ramendranarayan Roy (b.28 July 1884) was yet to take up the zamindari management when the famous incident of the Bhawal Case took place.\n\nRamendra Narayan Roy, second kumar of Bhawal, spent most of his time hunting, in festivities, and with women, having several mistresses. By 1905 he was said to have contracted syphilis. In 1909 he went to Darjeeling to seek treatment, accompanied by his wife Bibhabati Devi, her brother Satyendranath Banerjee, and a large retinue, but was reported to have died there on 7 May at the age of 25. The reported cause of death was biliary colic (gallstones). His body was supposedly cremated in Darjeeling the next day and customary funerary rites were performed on 8 May.\n\nLater there was much discussion of what had exactly happened on 8 May and what was the exact time of the cremation and exactly who had been cremated. Some witnesses testified that a sudden hailstorm had interrupted the cremation just before the pyre should have been lighted and the body might have disappeared when the mourners had sought shelter.\n\nHis young wife Bibhabati Devi moved to Dhaka to live with her brother Satyen Banerjee. Over the next ten years the other Bhawal Estate kumars also died and the colonial British Court of Wards took control of the estate on behalf of their widows.\n\n[ Regarding the family name, long before the beginning of British Raj in Hindustan (India) 'Baro Bhuiya' (১২) (বারো ভুঁইয়া) or (12 great land lords) ruled over the lands of what was then known as Bangladesh (including current day West Bengal, Bangla Desh, Assam, Tripura, parts of modern-day Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha). The Bhawals were descended from one of the Baro Bhuiyan families. There was a custom among the Zamindari families of those days of acquiring high sounding titles like Roy, Chatterjee, Banerjee etc., and Ramendra Narayan Roy's surname of Roy was in fact a title. His original surname was Bhawal.]\n\nIn 1920, a sanyasi appeared in Buckland Bund in Dhaka covered in ashes. He sat on the street for four months and attracted attention because he was of unusually good physical stature. There were rumours that the second kumar had returned, even when the man said that he had renounced his family. Buddhu, the son of an elder sister of the brothers, visited him but was not convinced. Some of the locals arranged for the man's visit to Joydebpur where he arrived on 12 April 1921 on an elephant. Under public pressure, the sanyasi finally disclosed that he was Ramendranarayan Roy, the raja of Bhawal.\n\nThe sanyasi claimed that while in Darjeeling he was poisoned and a cremation was attempted. But the people hired to cremate the raja left his body unattended and not cremated because a strong hailstorm had started raging at that time. A group of naga sanyasis found him lying unconscious, took him to their abode and nursed him back to recovery. He recovered, but had suffered memory loss, and wandered India for the next 10 years. While returning from Chittagong to Dhaka in 1920, he recovered his memory, and was instructed by his guru to return home.\n\nOver the following days, his sisters became convinced that this sanyasi was indeed the second kumar, but he returned to Dhaka by 25 April. Relatives invited him back to Joydebpur on 30 April when various relatives and tenants came to see him. When the crowd questioned him, he remembered the name of his wet nurse, a fact that was not public, and so they recognised him as the second kumar of Bhawal.\n\nThere was considerable rural acceptance that the man was the Second Kumar of Bhawal. Many of his former tenants and relatives began to support him. On 15 May a large crowd gathered before the Jaidebpur Rajbari in Dhaka and announced in public that they believed that he was the returned Kumar. But the Kumar's widow Bibhabati refused to meet the claimant and regarded him as an impostor.\n\nOn 29 May 1921 the claimant arrived in Dhaka in the Bhawal house with two lawyers to meet the district magistrate and collector J. H. Lindsay who recorded his claim.\n\nThe British colonial government and the Court of Wards were not enthusiastic. Managers of the Bhawal estate sent investigators to make inquiries about the identity of the claimant and find witnesses to support their side of the story. Two investigators went to Punjab to meet Dharamdas Naga, who identified the claimant as his pupil Mal Singh of Aujla, also known as Sundardas. On 3 June the Board of Revenue announced in public that they had proof that the kumar's body had been cremated in Darjeeling and therefore the claimant was an impostor.\n\nDespite this, the public and many tenants of the Bhawal estate continued to support the claimant. Many tenants paid their rents to the claimant, who used them to hire lawyers. Solicitor Ananda Chandra Nandi agreed to represent him in court. Claimant's principal supporter was Suren Mukherjee.\n\nBoth opponents and supporters of the claimant published their own articles and pamphlets propagating their cause. Some of them included alleged eye witness reports of how a group of sannyasis had rescued the still-alive kumar from the funeral pyre, taken him away and healed him. Others compared the case with that of a historical impostor Pratapchand and even the Tichborne case. Some writers wrote plays or stories to make their point about the case, some of them accusing Bibhabati and his brother of incestuous relations or conspiracy to poison the kumar.\n\nThe Board of Revenue claimed that the whole matter was a conspiracy organised by interested parties who wanted to use the estate for their own purposes. When they had found a suitable candidate, they had prepared him for the part of a returned kumar with the aid of kumar's sisters. Many Indian witnesses also stated that the claimant could not speak Bengali well and he was mainly ignorant about the events of the kumar's youth. One of them, Mukunda Guin, was stabbed to death in September 1921.\n\nAfter the claimant moved to Calcutta in 1924, he also received recognition in local social circles. He joined the Bengal Landholders Association and became a director of Bengal Flotilla Service. He tried to use various official channels to argue his case until 1929, when he moved back to Dhaka and began to collect tenant's rents and tribute against his share of the 1/3 of the property.\n\nOn 24 April 1930, lawyers working for the claimant, supported by the sisters and elder sister-in-law of the kumar, filed a declaratory suit in Dhaka claiming the name and property of Ramendra Narayan Ray against Bibhabati Devi and other landholders who were represented by the Court of Wards. Judgement was delivered in favour of the plaintiff in 1936. District judge Alan Henderson assigned judge Pannalal Bose to the case. Bejoy Chandra Chatterjee served as counsel for the claimant, now a plaintiff. Amiya Nath Chaudhuri counselled the defendants, those represented by the Court of wards. The trial began on 30 November 1933.\n\nIn court the sannaysi declared that he fell victim to a conspiracy hatched by his brother-in-law Satyendranath Banerjee, an unemployed graduate, who wanted to control his share of the estate through his childless sister. He further alleged that Satyendranath had bribed the family physician Ashutosh Dasgupta to state that the rajkumar was suffering from syphilis, and was persuaded by the conspirators to go for treatment to Darjeeling, where they all lodged at a house called \"Step Aside,\" close to the funeral ground.\n\nLawyers working for the Court of Wards tried to prove that this barely literate man could not be of Brahmin caste, but those on the claimant's side were able to prove that the kumar had actually been barely able to read and write (today, it is possible that such a condition would have been described as dyslexic). Defense also claimed that the allegation that Kumar had had a mistress named Elokeshi was total fiction. When Elokeshi was summoned, she said that police had offered her money for not testifying.\n\nDefense also argued that kumar's syphilis had advanced to the state of open sores when there were no sign of any syphilitic scars in the claimant's body. The claimant spoke mainly Urdu, claiming that he had forgotten most of his Bengali during his travels. There was also an argument about the exact colour of kumar's eyes. There were also claims that the body burned in the funeral pyre had been a substitute.\n\nBoth sides summoned hundreds of witnesses and some of their statements were contradictory. Defense questioned kumar's sister Jyotirmayi Debi, who supported the claimant and stated that the claimant had various family characteristics and that the claimant did speak Bengali. The plaintiff's side, in turn, closely questioned Bibhabati Devi, who denied she saw any resemblance between her dead husband and the claimant. Ananda Kumari, widow of one of the other kumars, claimed that the kumar had been able to speak English and write in Bengali, neither of which the claimant could do. However, the letters that were presented as evidence of this were found to be forgeries.\n\nIn September 1935, the guru Dharamdas Naga arrived to testify in court through an interpreter and repeated that he recognised the claimant as his former disciple Sundardas, previously Mal Singh, who was a Punjabi sikh from Lahore. Das fell ill and had to be questioned outside the courthouse. The claimant's supporters insisted that this guru was a fraud. Both sides' closing arguments lasted for 6 weeks before the court adjourned on 20 May 1936.\n\nJudge Pannabal Basu deliberated his final judgment for three months and on 24 August 1936, after a very detailed explanation and with a large crowd waiting outside, he ruled in favour of the claimant. Afterwards he retired from the judiciary.\n\nThe claimant moved to take up residence at the estate but the Board of Revenue did not release any funds to him. On 5 October 1936 the government filed an appeal against the judgment in the Calcutta High Court, again in the name of the wards of the Court of Wards. Chief justice of the High Court gave an order that all the evidence in the previous trial must be printed for the use of the appellate court. It amounted to 11,327 printed pages.\n\nThree judges, Sir Leonard Costello, Charu Chandra Biswas and Ronald Francis Lodge formed a special bench for the case. Both sides retained their former lawyers. The hearing began on 14 November 1938.\n\nAppellants' side concentrated on what had really happened in Darjeeling, arguing that there should be proof that kumar was not dead and proof of who, if anybody, had been cremated. Respondents' side defended the judgment, stating the kumar's identity had been proved. Hearings concluded on 14 August 1939.\n\nJudge Costello left for a holiday in Britain, intending to return in November to finish the case. In the meantime, World War II erupted in Europe and he was unable to return due to state of war. On 20 August 1940, other judges decided that the judgment could not wait any longer and began to announce their judgment. Other judges had presented their view to Costello in writing, he had delivered his own judgment in writing from Britain and it remained sealed until it was read in court.\n\nJudge Biswas defended judge Basu's conclusions in his long verdict and stated that the defendants had failed to prove that the Second Kumar had died. He charged that the defendants had tutored witnesses and produced fraudulent letters. He therefore found the favour of the claimant. Justice Lodge disbelieved the story of the rescue, criticised the amount of witnesses both sides had summoned, dismissed many details of the plaintiff's evidence and accused the plaintiff's side of pressuring and insulting the witnesses for the defence. He therefore found in favour of the defendants.\n\nWhen judge Biswas read the judgment of Justice Costello's on 29 August 1940, it broke the tie. Costello criticised the Court of Wards for pressuring witnesses with irrelevant questions and withholding documents. He did not find sufficient reason to overturn the decision of the lower court. On 25 November, after two months of deliberation, the court announced that Costello's view was valid and therefore the appeal was dismissed.\n\nThe claimant was allowed to withdraw money from his share of the estate. He still left this share in the care of the Court of Wards until further developments. He also got married.\n\nThe Board of Revenue did not answer right away and A.N. Chaudhuri withdrew from the case but Bibhabati Devi was not ready to give up. Developments of the war delayed further appeals until 1943, when lawyers for Bibhabati Devi filed for a leave to appeal against the judgment of the High Court in the Privy Council in London. Partially because of the bomb damage to the council chamber in the blitz, The Council moved to the House of Lords and the next hearing began there in 1945. D.N. Pritt worked for the claimant's side and king's counsel W.W. K. Page argued the case for the Court of Wards.\n\nThe same evening, when the claimant went to offer prayers, he suffered a stroke and died two days later. Funeral rites were performed on 13 August 1946. Bibhabati Devi later regarded this as a divinely ordained punishment for impostor. She later refused the inheritance (Rs. 800000) coming from the estate.\n\nA forensic study, conducted on the dead body of the sadhu confirmed that he was indeed the kumar:\n\n1. Bangladeshi director and actor \"Khan Ataur Rahman directed a film titled \"Raja Sonyasi\" which was released in 1966. In the same year, another Bangladeshi director named Raunak Chowdhury released a film on Bhawal king titled Bhawal Sonyasi\". ≤বাংলাদেশের চলচ্চিত্রের ইতিহাস' (এফডিসি, ১৯৮৭) by Anupam Hayat; বাংলাদেশের চলচ্চিত্র শিল্প' (বাংলা একাডেমী, ১৯৯৩) by Mirza Tarequl Kader; 'আমাদের চলচ্চিত্র' (ফিল্ম আর্কাইভ,২০১১)by Fakhrul Alam; and 'কুশলী চিত্রগ্রাহক বেবী ইসলাম' (বাংলাদেশ ফিল্ম আর্কাইভ, ২০১৩) by Mir Shamsul Alam Baboo≥\n\n2. \"Uttam Kumar starred in a bengali film as the Bhawal Sanyas in \"Sanyasi Raja\" directed by Pijush Bose in 1975\n\n3. \"Shaheb Chattopadhyay starred in a Bengali TV serial as the Bhawal Sanyas in \"Sannyasi Raja\" in TV Channel Star Jalsha in 2017-18\n\n4. \"Jisshu Sengupta has starred in a bengali film as the Bhawal Sanyas in Ek Je Chhilo Raja directed by Srijit Mukherjee in 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30746439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30746439", "title": "Cosmas Batubara", "text": "Cosmas Batubara\n\nCosmas Batubara, born in Purbasaribu, Simalungun Regency, North Sumatra on 19 September 1938, is an Indonesian politician. He was a chairman and the co-founder of KAMI, an Indonesian anti-communist student group. He was one of the strongest proponent for the banning of the Communist Party of Indonesia and the arrest of fifteen ministers, including Subandrio.\n\nHe was a parliament member in 1967-1978. He was appointed as the Junior Minister of Housing in Suharto's Third Development Cabinet in 1978 and the State Minister of Housing in the 1983 Fourth Development Cabinet. In 1988, he was appointed as the Minister of Manpower in the Fifth Development Cabinet. In 1991, he was appointed President of the International Labour Organization.\n"}
{"id": "14605277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14605277", "title": "Dawson (actor)", "text": "Dawson (actor)\n\nDawson (born June 18, 1973) is an American gay pornographic actor.\n\nDawson made his gay pornographic film industry debut in 2004's \"Dawson's 20 Load Weekend\". The video went on to win 6 \"Bareback Video\" \"Spoogie Awards\" including \"Video of the Year\"; Dawson received multiple awards including \"Best Newcomer\" and \"Hottest Bottom\".\n\nIn 2007, Dawson appeared on the cover of \"Instigator Magazine\" as part of an in-depth interview with the performer.\n\nDawson is openly HIV-positive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39963219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39963219", "title": "Early life of Mao Zedong", "text": "Early life of Mao Zedong\n\nThe early life of Chinese revolutionary and politician Mao Zedong covered the first 27 years of his life, from 1893 to 1919. Born in Shaoshanchong, Shaoshan in Hunan province, Mao grew up as the son of Mao Yichang, a wealthy farmer and landowner. Sent to the local Shaoshan Primary School, Mao was brought up in an environment of Confucianism, but reacted against this from an early age, developing political ideas from modern literature. Aged 13 his father organised a marriage for him with Luo Yigu, the daughter of another land-owning family, but Mao denounced the marriage and moved away from home.\n\nIn 1911 Mao began further education in the Hunanese capital of Changsha, where he came under the influence of republicanism, and became an admirer of republican revolutionary Sun Yat-Sen. When the Xinhai Revolution broke out between republicans and monarchists, Mao signed up as a soldier, although conflict subsided and he left the army after six months. Seeing himself as an intellectual, he became heavily influenced by classical liberalism, and began studying at the First Normal School of Changsha, as well as penning his first publications. With Xiao Zisheng he co-founded the Renovation of the People Study Society in April 1918 to discuss and perpetuate revolutionary ideas among students, before graduating in 1919.\n\nMao biographer Lee Feigon asserted that Mao experienced \"a relatively typical childhood\". He commented that it was for this reason that previous biographers had found it difficult to \"find something fundamentally wrong with Mao from an early age\" with which they had hoped to explain his later development into \"a revolutionary tyrant\".\n\nMao was born on December 26, 1893 in his familiar home in the rural village of Shaoshanchong in Xiangtan county, Hunan Province, part of south-central China. Typical of many Hunanese villages, Shaoshanchong was situated in a narrow valley surrounded by mountains. Both the village and the nearest town, Shaoshan, were named for the local Shaoshan Mountain (\"Music Mountain\"), a prominent feature in the local landscape with sacred associations for the region's Buddhists. The village was inhabited by many individuals with the surname of Mao; the Mao clan traced their lineage back to Mao Taihua, a warrior from Jiangxi Province who had moved to Xiangtan county in the mid-fourteenth century after fighting for Zhu Yuanzhang's military campaign to overthrow the Mongol-governed Yuan dynasty.\n\nMao's father, Mao Yichang, had been born in Shaoshanchong to a family of poverty before undergoing an arranged marriage to Mao's mother, Wen Qimei, when he was fifteen years old. While Yichang had received two years of schooling and could read and write, conversely Qimei was illiterate. Serving for several years in the regional Xiang Army, Yichang saved up his wages and on leaving the army used these to pay off his family's debts and purchase the lands that his father had sold. By the time of Zedong's birth, Yichang owned two-and-a-half acres of rice paddy, which would have been considered a substantial amount by the standards of the region. Through frugal living and hard work, over the coming years he was able to purchase a further acre and employ two farm laborers, with his farm encompassing a cow shed, a grain storage hut, a pigsty, and a small mill. Expanding the family's wealth, Yichang purchased mortgages on other peasants' land, thus becoming their landlord, while also purchasing the grain from the poorest farmers in the village before selling it on for a profit at the county seat of Xiangtan. In doing so, he amassed a fortune of two to three thousand Chinese silver dollars at a time when the majority of China's peasantry continued to live in poverty. This being the case, Mao biographer Philip Short could assert that the Mao family were \"comfortably off\" by the standards of the period.\n\nAccording to the traditional lunar-based Chinese calendar, Mao Zedong's birth fell on the ninth day of the eleventh month of the Year of the Snake. After the birth, Mao's mother – who had previously birthed two sons who had died in infancy – was worried for his welfare, and consulted a Buddhist nun who lived as a hermit in the mountains for advice. The nun recommended that prayers be said for the child; doing so, Qimei then prostrated herself at a local temple dedicated to the Buddhist Bodhisattva Guanyin, requesting that the Bodhisattva become Zedong's foster-mother.\n\nSeveral biographers have suggested it likely that local traditional customs would have been observed after the birth; in this circumstance, a rooster would have been presented to his parents, while Mao would probably not have been bathed until three days after the birth, an event which would have been the first culturally-appropriate opportunity for guests to view the child. The child's father was expected to add onion and ginger to the bath water, symbolizing mind and health, while also providing sacrifices to the spirits of the ancestors. A Daoist fortune-teller was then employed to draw up a horoscope for the child, which revealed that he was lacking in the water element; Mao was therefore given the personal name of \"Zedong\" because according to Hunanese custom the character of \"ze\" (\"to anoint\") was deemed to correct this deficiency. The character of \"ze\" however had a dual meaning; as well as referring to moisture, it also implied kindness and beneficence. Yichang chose the latter part of his son's name, \"dong\" (\"east\"), so that the child's name would mean \"benefactor of the east\".\n\nAccording to traditional custom, the child was also given a second, unofficial name to be used on specific ceremonial occasions; this was \"Runzhi\" (\"Dewy Orchard\"). His mother gave him a third name, \"shisanyazi\" (\"the Third Child Named Stone\"), which reflected that he was her third child while also protecting him from misfortune and linking to the protection offered by Guanyin.\nIf traditional Hunanese customs were adhered to, the baby's head would have been shaved after four weeks, with a small tuft of hair left on the crown and at the nape of the neck; it was at this point that the child would have been officially given its name. According to tradition, visitors probably would have gathered for this ceremony, bringing gifts of money, pork, fish, fruit, and decorated eggs.\n\nThe Mao family lived in a clay-brick farmhouse which had been constructed in 1878, although Yichang oversaw its extension during Zedong's boyhood. They occupied the eastern wing of their house, with the neighboring Zou family living in the western half. The building was large enough for Zedong to be allocated his own bedroom; a rarity at the time. In front of the house was a pond and a rice paddy, while pine and bamboo groves grew behind the building.\nAside from his parents, Mao lived at home with his paternal grandfather, Mao Enpu, until the latter's death when Mao was ten. Mao's paternal grandmother, Liu, had died in 1884, nine years before his birth. When Zedong was two years old, his mother gave birth to her fourth child, Mao Zemin, with a further son, Mao Zetan, being born when Zedong was eleven. She also gave birth to two daughters, both of whom died in infancy, although soon after Zetan's birth the couple adopted a baby girl, Zejian, who was the daughter of one of Mao's paternal uncles.\n\nAs was common at the time, Mao began embarking on farming activities aged five or six, being instructed to watch over the cattle and tend to the ducks. Mao's habits were heavily influenced by his peasant background; biographer Stuart Schram suggested that this took the form of a \"lack of social graces and of a concern either for comfort or appearances.\" In later life, Mao would never become accustomed to the use of a toothbrush, instead retaining the habit of washing his mouth out with tea. Similarly, he continued to prefer cleaning himself with a steaming towel than with soap and water, again reflecting his peasant upbringing. Further, it was from traditional Hunanese cuisine that he developed his lifelong love of spicy food.\n\nQimei was a practising Buddhist, and encouraged her sons to follow Buddhist teachings; embracing this faith, Zedong often accompanied her on visits to the local Buddhist temple, influencing her hopes that he would become a monk. Conversely, Yichang was largely irreligious, although after surviving an encounter with a tiger, gave offerings to the gods in thanks. According to Mao's account, Yichang was a staunch disciplinarian, and would beat his children as punishment for disobedience and a perceived lack of filial piety, with Mao describing the beating he received on one occasion when he humiliated his father in public. He added that his mother would often try to protect her children from these beatings.\n\nDuring the 1930s, Mao would claim that he resented his father, viewing him as stingy and unaffectionate. He contrasted this with the affection he received from his mother, thus adopting a Marxist dialectical perspective by dividing the family into two camps: his mother and himself on one side, his father on another. Biographers have interpreted this filial relationship in different ways; while Jung Chang and Jon Halliday stated that \"Mao hated his father\", conversely, Schram pointed out that even in Mao's accounts of Yichang, his description is nuanced, and \"not simply one of unremitting hatred\". Ross Terrill suggested that \"Behind Zedong's expressed hatred of his father was an unacknowledged identification; he was driven to become an authoritarian like his father, and on a far grander scale.\" Feigon has questioned the veracity of Mao's account of this issue, suggesting that the alleged bad relationship between the two was \"probably overstated\"; highlighting that Yichang clearly went to great efforts to financially support his son, Feigon also noted that the anti-father trope was \"wildly popular among young Chinese intellectuals\" during the 1930s, and that Mao's account hence may well be a reflection of this rather than reality.\n\nYichang was keen for his eldest son to gain a basic education rooted in Confucianism, the dominant moral ideology of Chinese society; he deemed a knowledge of Confucian teaching to be essential in allowing his son to develop key business and administrative skills. His hope was that Zedong would gain an apprenticeship with a Xiangtan rice merchant before taking over the family business and supporting his parents during their old age. Yichang was particularly adamant on the need to learn about Confucianism after losing a lawsuit over a parcel of land; he believed that his opponent had been victorious in the dispute as a result of their ability to quote the sayings of ancient Chinese philosopher Confucius throughout their argument.\n\nThus, from the age of eight, Mao was sent to gain a basic education at the private Shaoshan Primary School. Adopting a traditional syllabus and method of education, the school emphasised the copying and recitation by rote of a series of classical Chinese texts preaching Confucian morals: the \"Three Character Classic\", the \"Book of Names\", the \"Thousand Character Classic\", the \"Odes for Children\", the \"Filial Classic\", and \"Filial Learning\". Perceived failure or disobedience resulted in beatings with a bamboo rod from the teacher, who like Mao's father was a stern disciplinarian. Disliking this mode of education, Mao later asserted that \"I hated Confucius from the age of eight.\" Although expressing his dislike for them, Mao nevertheless accepted the utility of learning these texts, finding himself able to win arguments – including those against his father – by the selective use of Confucian quotations.\n\nFar more to Mao's liking were the accounts of war and banditry found in the Four Great Classical Novels, including \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", \"Journey to the West\", and \"Water Margin\"; while also steeped in Confucian morality, they emphasised the need to fight for justice in society, and it is possible that these texts inspired his interest in history. According to his later account, it was at this point that he attained a strong belief in justice; he began to divide his lunch in two to share with a poorer boy who could not afford food. On another occasion, he got into a physical fight with an older classmate; this greatly upset his mother, who held pacifist beliefs. According to his later account, at one point he rebelled when the teacher tried to punish him for disobedience; rather than permitting himself to be beaten with a rod, he marched out of the school and into the wooded mountains. He remained there for three days, until being discovered by a family member and brought home.\n\nDespite this education, biographers Alexander Pantsov and Steven Levine commented that the \"moral-ethical precepts of Confucius seem to have left not a trace in his soul\". Conversely, biographer Philip Short asserted that for Mao, as for all Chinese children who went underwent traditional education, these Confucian texts \"fixed the underlying pattern of [his] thought for the rest of his life\". Short went so far as to suggest that Confucianism would prove to be \"at least as important to [Mao] as Marxism\", noting that even in later life, Mao's speeches contained a greater number of quotations from Confucius and other ancient Chinese philosophers than from major Marxist theoreticians Karl Marx and Vladimir Lenin.\n\nAged thirteen, Mao left Shaoshan Primary School, pleased to have gotten away from what he saw as its oppressive atmosphere. The decision had been made by his father, who wanted Mao to devote his attentions to the family business by working on the farm and managing the financial accounts. However, relations between him and his father became increasingly strained. Mao continued to read in his free time, often staying up late at night in his bedroom to read by candle light; this angered his father, who saw recreational reading as an unproductive pursuit. At this point he read a book which inspired his interest in politics: Zheng Guanying's \"Sheng-shih Wei-yen\" (\"Words of Warning to an Affluent Age\"). Published in 1893, the book lamented the deterioration of Chinese power in East Asia, and argued for technological, economic and political reform, believing that China could be strengthed if it abandoned its absolute monarchy and politically modelling itself on the representative democracies and constitutional monarchies of the Western world. His political views were shaped by protests – led by the Gelaohui, or Elder Brother Society – which erupted following a famine in Hunanese capital Changsha; Mao supported the protesters' demands, but the armed forces suppressed the dissenters and executed their leaders. The famine spread to Shaoshan, where starving peasants seized his father's grain; disapproving of their actions as morally wrong, Mao nevertheless claimed sympathy for their situation.\n\nYichang decided to organise an arranged marriage for Mao, selecting for him the seventeen-year-old Luo Yigu, the daughter of a local landowner. Although unhappy with the arrangement, Mao agreed to go through with the marriage, with the wedding taking place in 1907 or 1908. According to his later account however, he never consummated the marriage and refused to live with Luo. Instead, he claimed that he made use of connections with his maternal family to leave his parental home and move into the house of an unemployed student in Shaoshan, where he lived for a year. There, he continued his reading, enjoying tales of ancient Chinese rulers such as Sima Qian's \"Records of the Grand Historian\" and Ban Gu's \"History of the Former Han Dynasty\". He was also influenced by Feng Guifen's \"Personal Protests from the Study of Jiao Bin\", which had been compiled in 1861. Like Guanying's book, it called on China to adopt foreign techniques to strengthen itself, and to use them to defend itself from foreign aggression. Mao also read a pamphlet by the Chinese revolutionary Chen Tianhua, which recounted China's loss of sovereignty to Japanese and European imperialists; Mao claimed that this was a great influence on him, for after reading it \"I felt depressed about the future of my country and began to realize that it was the duty of all the people to help save it.\" Meanwhile, Luo was locally disgraced and eventually died of dysentery in 1910, while Qimei moved to live with her brother's family in her native village of Xiangxiang.\n\nIn the autumn of 1910, Mao requested that his father permit him to attend the Dongshan Higher Primary School, which was located fifteen miles from Shaoshan; unlike the Shaoshan Primary School, this establishment taught modern subjects such as natural sciences. Yichang agreed to fund his son's tuition and dormitory space, and so the sixteen-year-old Mao set off to Dongshan with his older cousin, Wen Yunchang, who was also enrolled there. His two best friends at the school were Yunchang and Xiao Zizhang (also known as Xiao San), who would later join Mao in the communist movement and would become one of his first biographers. However, he was bullied for being rural and unsophisticated by many of his classmates, who were typically the sons of wealthy landlords from the Xiangxiang district. He nevertheless proved to be a successful student, gaining the respect of his teachers through hard work, an ability to compose essays in the classical style, and voracious reading. Here, he first learned about geography, and increased his knowledge of ancient Chinese history.\nHe began to read too about foreign history, coming to be particularly influenced by a book titled \"Great Heroes of the World\", through which he learned about – and was inspired by – the military prowess and nationalistic fervour of American George Washington and Frenchman Napoleon Bonaparte. Schram believed that it was here, at this school, that \"we can date the real beginnings of Mao's intellectual and political development\". Mao remained at the school for seven or eight months, before deciding to enroll at a middle school in the provincial capital of Changsha.\n\nIn 1911, Mao convinced his father to allow him to attend middle school in Changsha. The city was \"a revolutionary hotbed\", with widespread animosity towards the absolute monarchy of Emperor Puyi. While some advocated a reformist transition to a constitutional monarchy, most revolutionaries advocated republicanism, arguing for an elected presidency. The primary figurehead behind the republican movement was Sun Yat-sen, an American-educated Christian who led a secret society known as the \"Tongmenghui\". At Changsha, Mao came under the influence of Sun's newspaper, \"The People's Independence\" (\"Minli bao\"), penning his first political essay, which he stuck to the school wall; later admitting it was \"somewhat muddled\", it involved the creation of a republic governed by Sun, but with concessions made to the moderates by having Kang Youwei as premier and Liang Qichao as minister of foreign affairs. As a symbol of rebellion against the Manchu monarch, he and a friend cut off their queue pigtails—a sign of subservience to the emperor—before forcibly cutting off those of several classmates.\n\nInspired by Sun's republicanism, the army rose up against the emperor across southern China, sparking the Xinhai Revolution. Changsha initially remained under monarchist control, with the governor proclaiming martial law to quell protest. When the infantry brigade guarding the city defected to the revolution, the governor fled, leaving the city in republican hands. Supporting the revolution, Mao joined the rebel army as a private soldier, but was not involved in the fighting. The northern provinces remained loyal to the emperor, and hoping to avoid a civil war, Sun Yat-sen—proclaimed \"provisional president\" by his supporters—compromised with the monarchist general Yuan Shikai. The monarchy would be abolished, creating the Republic of China, but the monarchist Yuan would become president. The Xinhai Revolution over, Mao resigned from the army in 1912, after six months of being a soldier. Around this time, Mao discovered socialism from a newspaper article; proceeding to read pamphlets by Jiang Kanghu, the student founder of the Chinese Socialist Party, Mao remained interested yet unconvinced by the idea.\n\nReturning to education, Mao enrolled and dropped out of a police academy, a soap-production school, a law school and an economics school. His father only approved of the latter, but the lectures were in English, which Mao didn't understand, and so Mao abandoned it for the government-run Changsha Middle School; he soon dropped out of this too, finding it rooted in Confucianism. Undertaking his studies independently, he spent much time in the Changsha public library, reading core works of classical liberalism such as Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\", as well as the works of western scientists and philosophers such as Charles Darwin, J.S. Mill, Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and Herbert Spencer. Viewing himself as an intellectual, years later he admitted that at this time he thought himself better than working people. Inspired by the work of Friedrich Paulsen, the liberal emphasis on individualism led Mao to believe that strong individuals were not bound by moral codes but should strive for the greater good; that the end justifies the means. Seeing no use in his son's intellectual pursuits, Mao's father cut off his allowance, forcing Mao to move into a hostel for the destitute.\n\nDesiring to become a teacher, Mao enrolled at a teacher training college, the Fourth Normal School of Changsha, which had high standards, yet low fees and cheap accommodation. Several months later, it merged with the First Normal School of Changsha, widely seen as the best school in Hunan. \nBefriending Mao, Professor of Ethics Yang Changji urged him to read a radical newspaper, \"New Youth\" (\"Xin qingnian\"), the creation of his friend Chen Duxiu, Dean of the Faculty of Letters at Peking University. Although a Chinese nationalist, Chen argued that China must look to the west, adopting \"Mr. Democracy and Mr. Science\" in order to cleanse itself of superstition and autocracy. Mao published his first article, \"A Study of Physical Culture\", in \"New Youth\" in April 1917, instructing readers to increase their physical strength to serve the revolution. He joined The Society for the Study of Wang Fuzhi (\"Chuan-shan Hsüeh-she\"), a revolutionary group founded by Changsha literati who wished to emulate Wang Fuzhi, a philosopher who symbolized Han resistance to Manchu invasion.\n\nIn his first school year, Mao befriended an older student, Xiao Zisheng; together they went on a walking tour of Hunan, begging and writing literary couplets to obtain food. A popular student, Mao remained active in school politics, and in 1915 was elected secretary of the Students Society. He used his position to forge an Association for Student Self-Government, leading protests against school rules. In spring 1917, he was elected to command the students' volunteer army, set up to defend the school from marauding warlord soldiers, arming these troops with makeshift bamboo spears and wooden rifles. Increasingly interested in the techniques of war, he took a keen interest in the events of World War I, but also began to develop a sense of solidarity with workers. Mao undertook feats of physical endurance with Xiao Zisheng and Cai Hesen, describing themselves as the \"Three Heroes,\" a sobriquet taken from the \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\". With other young revolutionaries they formed the Renovation of the People Study Society in April 1918 to debate Chen Duxiu's ideas. Desiring personal and societal transformation, the Society gained between 70 and 80 members, including some females, many of whom would go on to join the Communist Party. Mao graduated in June 1919, being ranked third in the year.\n"}
{"id": "17062051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17062051", "title": "Eloisa Garcia Tamez", "text": "Eloisa Garcia Tamez\n\nEloisa Garcia Tamez (born March 2, 1935) is a Lipan Apache civil rights leader, lecturer, professional nurse, professor and retired officer of the United States Army's Nursing Corps. She is a prominent opponent and litigant against the Texas-Mexico border wall.\n\nBorn in Cameron County, Texas to Jose Cavazos Garcia (of Lipan Apache, Comanche, and Hispanic descent) and Lydia Esparza Garcia (Nahua, Basque, and Hispanic), Eloisa Garcia Tamez was raised in a traditional Indigenous community with her sibling, grandparents, cousins, and extended family. Her birth community is located within the historical land-base of the Lipan Apache.\n\nFollowing schooling in La Encantada and San Benito High School, she received a Bachelor of Science in Nursing from Incarnate Word College in 1968. She received a Master of Science in Nursing from the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio School of Nursing in 1973 and a Ph.D. in Health Education from the University of Texas at Austin in 1985.\n\nIn the summer of 1952, she led her community members in a local struggle against the discriminatory effects of the controversial consolidation of Landrum District #3 with the San Benito Independent School District, which would have favored white and elite families over the poorer land owners in traditional rancherias. She achieved high status among the rancherias during this struggle to advance the civil rights of the poorer, indigenous and Mexican-American families in 'Deep South Texas'. Her community referred to her as \"La Chata, prieta y justa\" [\"Chata, Indian and just\"].\n\nTamez worked at the Audie L. Murphy Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas from 1972 to 1982. From 1982 to 1999, she was an officer, rising to the rank of Lieutenant Colonel, in the United States Army Reserves. During this time, she was an assistant chief nurse or chief nurse at VA hospitals in San Juan, Puerto Rico; Hot Springs, South Dakota; and Cleveland, Ohio. On October 25, 2008, she was sworn into the Texas State Guard Medical Brigade as Commander for the Rio Grande Valley Company.\n\nIn 2007, Tamez co-founded the Lipan Apache Women Defense, an Indigenous Peoples Organization. Registered at the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, the organization serves to educate the public regarding contemporary Lipan Apaches and Lower Rio Grande indigenous peoples' legal challenges to human rights violations by the Department of Homeland Security in the process of constructing the Texas-Mexico border wall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49981080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49981080", "title": "Ermentar of Noirmoutier", "text": "Ermentar of Noirmoutier\n\nErmentar of Noirmoutier, also called Ermentarius Tornusiensis (died mid-860s), was a monk and historian of the abbey of Saint-Philibert de Tournus. He wrote a vivid prose chronicle, \"De translationibus et miraculis sancti Filiberti\", recounting the disruption of his community by Viking raids and its transfer from the Breton island of Noirmoutier to several locations in France before it was finally settled at Tournus in 875 (after his death). It is framed around the transfer of the relics of the abbey's patron, Saint Philibert of Jumièges, and the miracles he performed on the abbey's behalf.\n\nErmentar was a monk under Hilbod, who became abbot of Noirmoutier in exile around 826. The monks had begun construction on a new monastery in the villa of Déas under Hilbod's predecessor, Arnoul, who died in 824/5. It was there around 839 that Ermentar wrote his first work, the \"Vita sancti Filiberti\", a life of Saint Philibert based on an earlier seventh-century biography. In 847, the monks abandoned Déas for Cunault. In 862, they abandoned Cunault for Messay in Aquitaine, where Philibert's relics arrived on 1 May. This was the occasion when Ermentar began writing the \"De translationibus\". Abbot Hilbod died that year and was succeeded for a short time by an abbot named Ermentar. Unfortunately, there is no record of whether the abbot and the historian are one and the same. The historian had died by the mid-860s.\n\nErmentar records the first Viking raid on continental Europe against his monastery in 799. According to him, from 819 the monks were forced to spend summers on the mainland because of the Vikings. In 836, they finally relocated inland permanently and in 843 the Vikings took over Noirmoutier and made it their base for a series of raids into France. Ermentar's history is a valuable, but not entirely trustworthy, source. He wrote with outrage about the ferocity of the pagans.\n"}
{"id": "32889134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32889134", "title": "Eunice Buhler", "text": "Eunice Buhler\n\nEunice Buhler is an international social entrepreneur and scholar. She is the founder of Cultures for Youth, a not-for-profit volunteer organization that teaches young people about various cultures and promotes cultural acceptance.\n\nBuhler has served on the boards of several non-profit organizations including Youth Service America, the Nestle Very Best in Youth Foundation, the State Farm Youth Advisory Board, and Youth Ventures. She has been honored with the Princeton Prize in Race Relations. In 2006, she was named as one of the nation's top ten high school students in \"USA Today\", and she is the editor of \"Inspiring the Very Best in Youth\", a book of inspirational quotes.\n\nIn 2011, she produced a documentary, entitled \"The Litmus Test\", which addresses human rights and challenges to religious freedom of minorities in Turkey. Shot at the European Parliament in Brussels, Belgium, the documentary features interviews with policy makers, academics, and leaders from Turkey, Europe and the United States.\n\n, she performs research in human trafficking at Stanford University. \n"}
{"id": "7158309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7158309", "title": "Fleet Robert Current", "text": "Fleet Robert Current\n\nFleet Robert Current (May 28, 1924 – August 30, 1983) was an American bank robber and listed on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted list in 1953. \n\nCurrent began his criminal career in 1942, when he was convicted for burglary and sentenced to nine months imprisonment in Oakland County jail and, following his release, would be linked to numerous robberies throughout the west coast and later the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. \nIn August 1948, Current's raid on a Minneapolis loan company would be acknowledged by police officials as \"...the smoothest stickup in a generation.\" for which he was later sentenced to five years imprisonment. After serving less than three years, Current was released on parole in May 1951 and returned to California where he was identified committing a string of robberies between 1952 and 1953 including a robbery of a Minneapolis tavern of $2,500 in November 1952 and $1,500 from a San Francisco restaurant in January 1953. \nAfter yet another robbery in San Francisco, he was officially placed on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted list on May 18, 1953. During this time, Current was frequently on the road and placed in several locations across the country including the March 1 robbery of $22,000 from a St. Paul dairy and $250 from a Minneapolis hotel only two weeks later. \nDespite his status as a federal fugitive, Current continued his crime spree participating in the robbery of $5,148 from the American Trust Company with two Oakland criminals on June 25. A longtime sufferer of severe tuberculosis, of which his noticeably enlarged larynx attributed to his prison nickname \"The Apple\", was worsened by his traveling and fled to Omaha, Nebraska with his teenaged wife in early July. Although believing he would not be recognized, federal agents received an anonymous tip regarding Current's whereabouts and, on July 12, he and his wife were arrested by federal agents and local police officials. Unarmed, Current offered no resistance as he was taken into custody and extradited to California where he was eventually convicted and imprisoned.\n\n"}
{"id": "2524436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2524436", "title": "Freda Ahenakew", "text": "Freda Ahenakew\n\nFreda Ahenakew, (February 11, 1932 – April 8, 2011) was a Canadian author and academic of Cree descent. Ahenakew was considered a leader in Indigenous language preservation and literary heritage preservation in Canada. She was a sister-in-law to the political activist David Ahenakew.\n\nFreda Ahenakew was born in Ahtahkakoop, Saskatchewan, the second of eight children. Her parents were Edward and Annie (née Bird) Ahenakew. She spent some of her teenage years living at St. Alban's Residential School in Prince Albert, and attended the Prince Albert Collegiate Institute\n\nAhenakew married Harold Greyeyes from the Muskeg Lake Cree Nation (which henceforth made her a member of the same), and together they had 12 children. She would later return to follow her educational goals in 1968, where she attended high school with 9 of her children. In 1979, she would obtain her Bachelor of Education from the University of Saskatchewan while teaching Cree language. Her marriage to Greyeyes ended the same year. Between 1976 and 1981, she found employment teaching at the Saskatchewan Indian Cultural College, the Lac La Ronge Band, and the Saskatchewan Survival School (now the Joe Duquette High School) in Saskatoon.\n\nIn 1984, she received a Master of Arts in Cree linguistics from the University of Manitoba, working closely with Professor H.C. Wolfart. Her Master's thesis, \"Cree Language Structures\", was later published. From 1983 to 1985, she was an assistant professor in the Native Studies department at University of Saskatchewan. She was the director of the Saskatchewan Indian Languages Institute from 1985 until 1989. After leading the Institute, she was a professor in Native studies at the University of Manitoba until her 1996 retirement.\n\nAhenakew has been the recipient of numerous honorary awards including an honorary degree from the University of Saskatchewan. She was made a Member of the Order of Canada in 1998 and was awarded the Saskatchewan Order of Merit in 2005.\n\nIn 2016, a branch of the Saskatoon Public Library was named for Freda Ahenakew.\n\n"}
{"id": "46322290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46322290", "title": "Gabuh Piging", "text": "Gabuh Piging\n\nDatuk Gabuh bin Piging P.G.D.K. (11 January 1932 - 31 August 2010) represented North Borneo in the triple jump at the 1956 Summer Olympics, he finished 24th. He later competed at the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in the long jump and triple jump where he finished 10th in the latter.\n"}
{"id": "10501059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10501059", "title": "George Muff, 1st Baron Calverley", "text": "George Muff, 1st Baron Calverley\n\nGeorge Muff, 1st Baron Calverley (10 February 1877 – 20 September 1955) was a British Liberal then Labour politician.\n\nMuff was the son of George Muff, a miner of Bradford, Yorkshire, and his wife Sarah Jane (née Hodgson), and initially worked as a textile worker.\n\nSpeaking in 1948, Muff described how as a child he narrowly avoided being sent to the workhouse and shipped off to Australia as a result of his family's poverty. In the event, for part of his childhood Muff was raised by his neighbors.\n\nAt the 1918 General election he stood as Liberal Candidate for Bradford South, finishing third. Between 1923 and 1929 he was a member of the Bradford City Council. The latter year Muff was elected to the House of Commons for Hull East, a seat he held until 1931 and again from 1935 to 1945. He was also a Deputy Lieutenant of the West Riding of Yorkshire and a Justice of the Peace for the area. In 1945 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Calverley, of the City of Bradford in the West Riding of the County of York.\n\nLord Calverley married Ellen Eliza, daughter of Charles William Orford, in 1909. He died in September 1955, aged 78, and was succeeded in the barony by his son George. Lady Calverley died in 1965.\n\n"}
{"id": "588949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588949", "title": "Geuzen", "text": "Geuzen\n\nGeuzen (; French: Les Gueux, English: the Beggars) was a name assumed by the confederacy of Calvinist Dutch nobles, who from 1566 opposed Spanish rule in the Netherlands. The most successful group of them operated at sea, and so were called Watergeuzen (; French: \"Gueux de mer\", English: Sea Beggars). In the Eighty Years' War, the Capture of Brielle by the Watergeuzen in 1572 provided the first foothold on land for the rebels, who would conquer the northern Netherlands and establish an independent Dutch Republic. They can be considered either as privateers or pirates, depending on the circumstances or motivations.\n\nThe leaders of the nobles who signed a solemn league known as the Compromise of Nobles, by which they bound themselves to assist in defending the rights and liberties of the Netherlands against the civil and religious despotism of Philip II of Spain were Louis of Nassau, and Hendrick van Brederode. On 5 April 1566, permission was obtained for the confederates to present a petition of grievances, called the Request, to the regent, Margaret, Duchess of Parma. About 250 nobles marched to the palace accompanied by Louis of Nassau and Brederode. The regent was at first alarmed at the appearance of so large a body, but one of her councillors, Berlaymont, allegedly remarked \"N'ayez pas peur Madame, ce ne sont que des gueux\" (Fear not madam, they are only beggars).\nThe appellation was not forgotten. In a speech at a great feast held by some 300 confederates at the Hotel Culemburg three days later, Brederode declared that if need be they were all ready to become beggars in their country's cause. Henceforward the name became a party title. The patriot party adopted the emblems of beggary, the wallet and the bowl, as trinkets to be worn on their hats or their girdles, and a medal was struck having on one side the head of Philip II, on the other two clasped hands with the motto \"Fidèle au roy, jusqu'à porter la besace\" (\"Loyal to the King, up to carrying the beggar's pouch\"). The original league of Beggars was short-lived, crushed by Alva, but its principles survived and were to be ultimately triumphant.\n\nIn the Dutch language the word \"geuzennaam\" is used for linguistic reappropriation: a pejorative term used with pride by the people called that way.\n\nIn 1569 William of Orange, who had now openly placed himself at the head of the party of revolt, granted letters of marque to a number of vessels manned by crews of desperadoes drawn from all nationalities. Eighteen ships received letters of marque, which were equipped by Louis of Nassau in the French Huguenot port of La Rochelle, which they continued to use as a base. By the end of 1569, already 84 Sea Beggars ships were in action.\n\nThe sea beggars were powerful military units that made capturing coastal cities easy.\nThese fierce privateers under the command of a succession of daring and reckless leaders, the best-known of whom is William de la Marck, Lord of Lumey, were called \"Sea Beggars\", \"Gueux de mer\" in French, or \"Watergeuzen\" in Dutch. At first they were content merely to plunder both by sea and land, carrying their booty to the English ports where they were able to refit and replenish their stores.\n\nHowever, in 1572, Queen Elizabeth I of England abruptly refused to admit the Sea Beggars to her harbours. No longer having refuge, the Sea Beggars, under the command of Willem Bloys van Treslong, made a desperate attack upon Brielle, which they seized by surprise in the absence of the Spanish garrison on 1 April 1572. Encouraged by this success, they now sailed to Vlissingen, which was also taken by a \"coup de main\". The capture of these two towns prompted several nearby towns to declare for revolt, starting a chain reaction that resulted in the majority of Holland joining in a general revolt of the Netherlands, and is regarded as the real beginning of Dutch independence.\n\nIn 1573 the Sea Beggars defeated a Spanish squadron under the command of Admiral Bossu off the port of Hoorn in the Battle on the Zuiderzee. Mixing with the native population, they quickly sparked rebellions against Duke of Alba in town after town and spread the resistance southward.\n\nSome of the forefathers of the Dutch naval heroes began their naval careers as Sea Beggars, such as Evert Heindricxzen, the grandfather of Cornelis Evertsen the Elder.\n\nAs part of a propaganda campaign including prints, pamphlets and much else, many Geuzen medals were created as badges of affiliation, using a wide range of symbolism, including that associated with the Ottoman Empire. William I of Orange sought Ottoman assistance against the Spanish king Philip II. \nThe \"Geuzen\" were expressing their anti-Spanish and anti-Catholic sentiments. They considered the Turks to be less threatening than the Spaniards. During the years between 1579 and 1582, representatives from Grand Vizier Sokollu Mehmed Paşa travelled several times from Istanbul to Antwerp.\n\nThere were, in fact, objective grounds for such an alliance. At the same time that the Dutch rebels were conducting their raids on Spanish shipping, the Ottoman Empire was involved in its own naval war with Spain, culminating in the 1571 Battle of Lepanto. Obviously, facing Spain with a coordinated double-pronged naval challenge, by the Ottomans in the Mediterranean and the Dutch in north European waters, would be to the advantage of both of Spain's foes.\n\nThe slogan \"Liever Turks dan Paaps\" seems to have been largely rhetorical, and their beggars medals in the form of a half moon were meant symbolically. The Dutch hardly contemplated life under the Sultan. Moreover, there was no direct contact between the Geuzen and the Turkish authorities. The Turks were considered infidels, and the heresy of Islam alone disqualified them from assuming a more central (or consistent) role in the rebels' propaganda.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23262850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23262850", "title": "Hans Jørgen Koch", "text": "Hans Jørgen Koch\n\nHans Jørgen Koch is the head of Nordic Energy Research, a platform under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers.\n\nIn the periods 1982–1994 and 2002–2014, Koch worked in the ministries responsible for energy issues in Denmark. He was director general, deputy permanent secretary of state, and several times acting minister. He was chairman of the Energy Committee of the Nordic Council of Ministers. In 1983–1994, Koch was governor in the International Atomic Energy Agency. In 1990–1994, he was chairman of the Committee on Research and Technology of the International Energy Agency. In 1994–2002, Koch was director on energy efficiency, renewable energy and research, development and deployment in the IEA. After returning to Denmark he was a member of the Governing Board of the International Energy Agency. In 2014, he was chairman of the committee on renewable energy of the IEA.\n\nHans Jørgen Koch was the Vice Chairman of the intergovernmental final preparatory conference for the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) held in Madrid in 23–24 October 2008 and the founding conference held in Bonn on 26 January 2009. He was also a candidate for Director General of IRENA.\n\nSince 2014, he is executive director of Nordic Energy Research.\n"}
{"id": "38993672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38993672", "title": "Hart, Son, Peard and Co.", "text": "Hart, Son, Peard and Co.\n\nHart, Son, Peard and Co. were architectural metalworkers based in London and Birmingham, most associated with ecclesiastical works.\n\nFounded in 1842 in Wych St, off The Strand, by ironmonger Joseph Hart, they became artistic metalworkers specializing in ecclesiastical manufactures after merging with Birmingham-based Peard & Jackson in 1866-7. Also skilled in sculpture, the firm made designs by J.P. Seddon, B.J. Talbert and Alfred Waterhouse. They made silverwork for William Burges, and in the early 1870s for William Butterfield. The company had an agent, Henri Collet, in Paris.\n\nThe company were represented at all the major exhibitions, winning many medals, including at: London (1851, 1862); Paris (1855, 1867, 1878); Dublin (1855, 1865); and Philadelphia (1876).\n\nThe firm was disestablished shortly before World War I in 1913.\n"}
{"id": "12294077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12294077", "title": "Ismed Sofyan", "text": "Ismed Sofyan\n\nIsmed Sofyan (born in Tualang Cut, Aceh 28 August 1979) is an Indonesian footballer who plays for Persija Jakarta in the Liga 1. He normally plays as a wing back or right back and his height is 169 cm. He is a very fast player and good at shooting and assist. He has made 53 appearances for the Indonesia national football team.\n\nHe played for both Indonesia U-19 and U-23 teams from 1997 to 2001. His first appearance for senior team was in Asian Cup 2000 in Lebanon. He substituted for Budi Sudarsono at the second round in second game for Indonesia against Saudi Arabia in Group D Asian Cup 2007. He has been playing for Persija Jakarta since 2002.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11604609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604609", "title": "Jacques Zimako", "text": "Jacques Zimako\n\nJacques Zimako (born 28 December 1951 in Lifou) is a retired French professional footballer.\n\nZimako played for SC Bastia, AS Saint-Étienne and FC Sochaux-Montbéliard. He was capped 13 times for France, scoring 2 goals. He was the first footballer of Kanak origin to play for France.\n\n"}
{"id": "11480242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11480242", "title": "Jake McKinnon", "text": "Jake McKinnon\n\nJake McKinnon is a fictional character, portrayed by Tom Eplin throughout its entirety. Debuting on NBC's daytime drama, \"Another World\", after its cancellation, the character crossed over to the CBS daytime drama, \"As the World Turns\".\n\nJake grew up in Lassiter, Pennsylvania, with his parents, Ray and Alice McKinnon. Ray died when Jake was a teen, and his mother took off not long afterwards. If it hadn't been for Bridget Connell and her charge Vicky Hudson, his childhood best friend and sometimes lover, Jake probably would have just struck out on his own.\n\nJake and Vicky came to Bay City to con her biological family, the Loves, out of a fortune. The plan was for him to pretend to fall in love with Vicky's identical twin sister, Marley, but he ruined their plan when he REALLY fell in love with her. Marley was the first love of his life, and the two wed as teenagers, leaving town shortly after.\n\nMarley returned to town because Jake was cheating on her. Jake followed her and hoped for a reconciliation, but Marley was not interested. Old habits died hard when he and Vicky slept together in a moment of weakness. Vicky became pregnant and passed the baby off as Jamie Frame's. Jake helped Vicky deliver her son Steven and was named his godfather. Vicky was forced to confess to Jamie that Jake might be Steven's father, but she lied and said that Jake had raped her. In a rage, Jamie confronted Jake who told him Vicky was lying. Jake decided he had enough of Vicky and wanted full custody of Steven if he turned out to be his father. Jake and Marley got back together and formed a united front, which enraged Vicky. Despite having the same blood type as Jake, Steven turned out to be Jamie's son after all. Marley and Jake split up as did Vicky and Jamie.\n\nJake spent a whole year scheming his way through Bay City. He slept with Vicky and Marley's mother, Donna. He began working with Iris Wheeler to prove that Paulina Cantrell was not really Mac Cory's daughter. He thought he had uncovered the proof he needed, and began blackmailing her, and sleeping with her. At the same time, he was romancing Marley. When Marley learned that he was two-timing her, she broke things off with him. Unable to accept that any woman would say no to him, Jake viciously raped her. He was shot later that night, but survived. Marley stood trial for his attempted murder. Donna later confessed.\n\nIt turned out it was really Paulina who had shot him. Jake blackmailed Paulina into marrying him so he could get his hands on the Cory fortune. He still refused to let go of Marley, who was now with Jamie. Marley wanted nothing to do with Jake, but he kept pushing himself into her life, even making bets that he could get her back into his bed. His marriage to Paulina broke up, and Jake was torn between chasing after her and working on getting Marley back. Marley left town, and Jake wormed his way back into Paulina's life. They married again, but Jake put their marriage in jeopardy when he went along with Vicky's scam to pretend that her son, Kirkland, was a foundling that Paulina had discovered.\n\nJake managed to ruin his relationship with Paulina when he got in over his head with loan sharks and was presumed dead. Stricken with amnesia, he made himself a ton of cash as Bunny Eberhardt. He returned to Bay City, to find Paulina had moved on—she was in love with private detective Joe Carlino. He did his best to break them up, but eventually had to accept that Paulina, like Marley, had moved on.\n\nJake became fixated on Vicky, who was twice divorced and raising two young boys. He wanted to get more romantic, but Vicky wasn't ready to move on after her fiance Ryan Harrison's not-so-recent murder. He continued to try to get closer to her, and might have succeeded, if Bobby Reno (a mysterious carpenter) hadn't showed up on Vicky's doorstep looking at her through Ryan's eyes. She wasn't able to separate Bobby from Ryan, and became infatuated with the man.\n\nJake had almost given up all hope when Vicky learned the truth about Bobby—his real name was Shane Roberts, and he was a convicted murderer accused of killing his lover. Although Shane was cleared, the knowledge that Shane had lied to her not only about his past but about his wife (Lila Roberts) put a wedge between them. Although Shane did his best to get Vicky to be with him, she and Jake agreed to marry. Jake and Vicky were separated briefly after Shane and Michael died, because Jake learned that Vicky had lied to him that night, and had gone to the cabin with Shane. During this time, Marley returned to town, and was run down by her mother in the cemetery. After radical surgery that altered her face forever, Jake began spending more and more time with Marley. Marley began to believe that Jake still felt about her the way he had when she had left Bay City a few years earlier.\n\nJake and Vicky reconciled, but their happiness didn't last long once Vicky disappeared after Grant Harrison was shot. For months Jake despaired over the loss of his wife, turning more and more to Marley. He was shocked to discover that it was Marley who had kidnapped Vicky, believing that it would help her and Jake get back together. Jake refused to forgive and forget, bringing Marley's past up constantly, all the while ignoring his own substantial role in her break down. He has moved out of the house, but the sudden arrival of Sean (who turns out to be the son his brother Kevin Anderson fathered as a young teenager and never mentioned) may throw the two of them back together.\n\nJake and Vicky finally married. They later found out they were expecting twin girls.\n\nEditor Jake McKinnon's arrival in Oakdale was sudden and unexpected. Jake was unexpectedly thrust into one of Oakdale's biggest stories when he inadvertently hired the baby nurse who helped to hold Emily Stewart hostage. After helping to get the nurse to confess, he followed Tom Hughes to Oakdale to get a story. Almost immediately upon arriving in town, he was offered a job as Managing Editor of the City Times. Anxious for the chance to work at a larger paper in a larger town, Jake accepted.\n\nJake's first big story was the investigation into the life of Alec Wallace. Jake was determined to get the entire story behind Wallace's illegal activities and stood up to his boss, Lucinda, when she tried to get him to go for the quick and easy headline. Soon, Jake got too close to the story and an attempt was made on his life. Fearing for his wife's safety, Jake convinced her to get a bodyguard and leave the country, only to have her plane crash due to the guard's sabotage. Jake tried to deal with his loss with help from Lucinda as well as rival reporter, Julia Lindsay. However, it wasn't Julia who would change Jake's life, but Molly Conlan. Jake admired Molly's spunk and was sympathetic about all the troubles she'd had since he had plenty skeletons in his own past. When Molly was injured and in a coma, Jake took it upon himself to visit her often. When she finally came to, she was touched by his friendship and dedication and the pair became very close.\n\nThen Molly started experiencing visions of Jake's ex-wife, Vicky. Though skeptical, Jake decided to humor Molly and investigate. Through the course of the investigation, the pair fell in love and discovered a startling fact: Vicky's babies did not die with her in the plane crash; she gave birth before she died. Learning that the two girls were being raised by a farmer in Canada, Jake brought the girls, Michelle and Bridget, with him to Oakdale and then asked Molly to marry him.\n\nSoon after their engagement, Jake and Molly's life started to take a tragic turn. The trouble began with the arrival of Nick Scudder, an old high school boyfriend of Molly's. Though he seemed to be a great guy, Molly didn't trust him for a second and when the twins disappeared, she blamed Nick. However, with Nick's help the real culprit was found, the twins' nanny, Mary. Though Nick was now a hero in Abigail's eyes, Molly was still very wary of him. At the same time, while planning her wedding to Jake, Molly was dismayed when her criminal record was plastered on The City Times' webpage. Ashamed of her racy past, Molly wanted to break off her engagement to Jake, but he wouldn't let her. Instead Jake reassured her that he loved her no matter what and the two married in a beautiful ceremony at the Walsh estate. Though ecstatically happy, Molly continued to be wary of Abigail's friendship with Nick, and for good reason. Months after her wedding, Molly found out that Abigail was planning to run off with Nick. Disgusted, Molly warned him to stay away from her daughter, which he agreed to do for a huge amount of money. Not long after, Nick was found dead and Abigail (who had since learned of Nick's deception) was found unconscious with no memory of Nick's death.\n\nTrying to protect her daughter, Molly confessed to the crime, but soon evidence came forth showing Abigail to be the prime suspect. Working with Jake to investigate Nick's death, they discovered another suspect: their former nanny, Mary, who was in love with Nick. Though Mary initially denied the charge, Abigail's memory eventually came back and, after a confrontation with Mary, she remembered that Mary was the killer. Abigail's brother, Aaron, was on hand to hear Mary confess and the charges against Abigail were dropped. The nightmare was far from over. Her secret uncovered, Mary became unhinged and took Molly hostage in exchange for one million dollars. Without police help, Jake stormed in to rescue Molly and, though he succeeded, it was at the cost of his own life as he was shot while wrestling a gun away from Mary. After Jake's death, Bridget and Michelle were taken by to Bay City by Vicky's mother and sister.\n\n"}
{"id": "2075677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075677", "title": "Jean-Nicolas Bouilly", "text": "Jean-Nicolas Bouilly\n\nJean-Nicolas Bouilly (24 January 1763 – 14 April 1842) was a French playwright, librettist, children's writer, and politician of the French Revolution. He is best known for writing a libretto, supposedly based on a true story, about a woman who disguises herself as a man to rescue her husband from prison, which formed the basis of Beethoven's opera \"Fidelio\" as well as a number of other operas.\n\nBouilly was born near Tours, and was briefly a lawyer for the Parlement de Paris. At the outbreak of the Revolution he held office under the new government and was head of the military commission in Tours during the Reign of Terror.\n\nIn 1795, he served as a member of the Committee of Public Instruction having a considerable share in the organization of primary education, but retired from public life four years later in order to devote himself to literature. Bouilly died in Paris.\n\n\nIn 1836 he published an autobiography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2835065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2835065", "title": "Jillian Michaels", "text": "Jillian Michaels\n\nJillian Barberie Michaels (born February 18, 1974) is an American personal trainer, businesswoman, author and television personality from Los Angeles, California. Michaels is best known for her appearances on NBC, particularly \"The Biggest Loser\". She has also made an appearance on the talk show \"The Doctors\". In fall 2015, she hosted and co-judged a series on Spike titled \"Sweat, INC\". In January 2016, her reality television series \"Just Jillian\" premiered on E!.\n\nMichaels was born in Los Angeles, California, the daughter of JoAnn and Douglas McKarus, a lawyer. She was raised in Santa Monica. Michaels has recalled a traumatic childhood that included night terrors, her parents' divorce, and suffering verbal abuse by classmates as a 5-foot, 2-inch, 175-pound eighth-grader.\n\nMichaels attended California State University, Northridge, supporting herself as a bartender and personal trainer during that time. After working briefly as an agent with International Creative Management, in 2002, Michaels opened the sports medicine facility Sky Sport & Spa in Beverly Hills.\n\nAs a personal trainer and owns a black belt, Jillian Michaels uses a blend of strength training techniques with her clients including kickboxing, yoga, Pilates, plyometrics, and weight training. Since 1993, Jillian has held two personal training certificates from the National Exercise & Sports Trainers Association (NESTA) and The Aerobics and Fitness Association of America (AFAA). In addition, she is Kettlebell Concepts certified. Jillian has also developed a continuing education series for trainers with AFAA and holds a nutrition and wellness consultant certificate with the American Fitness Professionals and Associates (AFPA).\n\nIn January 2012, Michaels released a 90-day weight loss program titled \"Body Revolution\". She recently launched BODYSHRED, her 30-minute workout class exclusively at GoodLife gyms in Canada and in the US with clubs like Lifetime fitness, Crunch and UFC Gyms. In 2015, she launched her new infomercial BODYSHRED, a 60-day at-home workout program. Michaels' business partner and manager is Giancarlo Chersich. Together, they operate Empowered Media, LLC.\n\nIn addition to her DVDs, Michaels has also authored several books on health and wellness topics. Several of these books, including \"Master Your Metabolism\" and \"Unlimited\", have made the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list.\n\nMichaels hosted a Sunday talk radio show on Los Angeles's KFI (640 AM) from 2006 through 2009. Since February 2011, Michaels has hosted a weekly podcast, \"The Jillian Michaels Show\", through iTunes. In December 2011, the show was among the podcasts honored by Apple in its App Store Rewind 2011, winning in the Best New Audio Podcast category.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, she launched a video game for the Wii, \"Jillian Michaels' Fitness Ultimatum 2009\". A year later, she launched a sequel called \"Fitness Ultimatum 2010\". In 2011, Michaels released two more games, \"Jillian Michaels Fitness Ultimatum 2011\" and \"Jillian Michaels Fitness Adventure\" for the Xbox 360.\n\nJillian launched her company Empowered Media LLC in 2008 and released her fitness video membership website called Fitfusion.com, often referred to as the Netflix of fitness, featuring top fitness and yoga trainers and celebrities including Dashama Konah Gordon, Tara Stiles, Cassey Ho, Crunch Fitness, Jennifer Nicole Lee, Billy Blanks, and others. Fitfusion is also associated and broadcasts on AT&T U-verse, BroadbandTV Corp, Bell TV Canada, and other TV channels, as well as Roku, Apple TV, and Fitness on Demand reaching audiences in Marriott, Hilton Worldwide and Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts.\n\nMichaels was an original trainer on the reality series \"The Biggest Loser\" when the show debuted in October 2004. On the show, she assumed the role of Red Team trainer and remained in that capacity for the first two seasons. After her departure in 2006, she was replaced by Kim Lyons. She returned to the show in 2007 as the Black Team trainer competing against Lyons' Red Team and Bob Harper's Blue Team. Along with Harper, Michaels was also a trainer in the Australian version of the show from 2006 to 2008.\n\nOn December 7, 2010, Michaels announced via Twitter that the of the show would be her last. Michaels made her last appearance on \"The Biggest Loser\" on May 24, 2011.\n\nOn September 4, 2012, it was announced that Michaels will return to \"The Biggest Loser\" in Season 14. Michaels also returned for Season 15, which premiered on October 15, 2013 on NBC, but did not return for Season 16 which aired in the fall of 2014.\n\nOn June 1, 2010, NBC debuted \"Losing It With Jillian\", a spin-off of \"The Biggest Loser\". In the show, Michaels visits the home and workplaces of family members for a week.\n\n\"Losing It With Jillian\" originally ran on NBC in June and July 2010. As of January 2012, all eight episodes of the series are available for viewing online.\n\nOn May 6, 2011, CBS Television Distribution announced that Michaels had signed a multi-year deal to become a co-host of the panel-discussion show \"The Doctors\", as well as to serve as a special correspondent on the CTD program \"Dr. Phil\". Michaels had been a guest on \"The Doctors\" several times previously. On the show, Michaels hosted a recurring segment called \"Ask Jillian\", which dealt primarily with nutrition and diet topics.\n\nMichaels left \"The Doctors\" in January 2012 after half a season, because, she claimed, the arrangement \"wasn't the fit both the show and I hoped for\".\n\nMichaels is involved in a variety of charities including the NFL's Play 60, the Clinton Foundation's Alliance for a Healthier Generation, Stand Up to Cancer, Working Wardrobes, Hope for Haiti, and Sow a Seed and Dress for Success. Michaels also devotes time to animal welfare causes, and she recently helped PETA rescue a racehorse from the slaughterhouse.\n\nMichaels serves as an adviser to the National Day of Dance for Heart Health, an organization that encourages people to exercise. In January 2012, she was a participant in the Clinton Foundation's inaugural \"Health Matters: Activating Wellness in Every Generation\" conference.\n\nIn 2010, Michaels faced four separate lawsuits alleging ingredients in the Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Calorie Control dietary supplement, the Jillian Michaels Maximum Strength Fat Burner and the Triple Process Total Body Detox and Cleanse, were ineffective or dangerous. In each instance, Michaels denied the allegations. All four suits were dismissed.\n\nMichaels was the subject of a critical October 2010 op-ed piece in the \"Los Angeles Times\" from fitness author James Fell that claimed Michaels \"is not actually a real fitness trainer—she's an actress playing the role of fitness trainer on TV and in a line of popular DVDs\" and alleged she had let several of her fitness certifications lapse. Michaels responded by threatening legal action for defamation, stating she had been an active physical trainer for 19 years and that none of her certifications have lapsed. The newspaper published a correction citing her up-to-date certifications shortly thereafter and no legal action was taken.\n\nIn 2012, Michaels faced backlash from law enforcement officers and their families following her outspoken comments on the July 28, 2012 episode of her podcast, \"The Jillian Michaels Show.\" Approximately 8 minutes into the episode, Michaels expressed a lifelong hatred of police officers, to wit: \"Cops are just A-holes ... I've hated cops since I was a kid. The 'Po-Po,' I hate 'em. I've always hated 'em. I tried to pretend like I don't hate 'em.\" Michaels' comments were prompted by the police response to a burglary that had occurred in her Malibu home earlier that month. According to TMZ, on July 3, 2012, at approximately 9:00pm, career-criminal Gerjuan Harmon broke into the home she shares with her then-fiancée Heidi Rhoades and their two young children. While Michaels and family were elsewhere in the home, Harmon, a parolee, entered through an unlocked door and removed Michaels' purse, which contained her wallet and the keys to her 2011 Bentley GT. Following a high-speed police chase, Harmon crashed the Bentley into a light pole. After fighting with the responding officers, Harmon was placed under arrest. In September 2014, Harmon was convicted of unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle, evading an officer, resisting executive officers and misdemeanor hit-and-run driving. He is now serving a 17-year sentence in state prison. When describing the incident on her July 28, 2012 podcast, Michaels claimed that the responding officers were bribed by TMZ, accepting money in exchange for details about the crime. With no evidence to support her assertions, backlash from the law enforcement community surfaced on social media. A Facebook page, \"Jillian Michaels Hates Law Enforcement,\" was established in an apparent effort to counter Michaels' vitriolic comments and assertions by suggesting boycotts of the various brands endorsed by Michaels. The July 28, 2012 podcast episode in question, titled, \"Jillian Finds Gratefulness in a Personal Loss,\" was removed from the show's iTunes feed by the show's producers, but can still found on SoundCloud.\n\nMichaels has two children with her ex-fiancée Heidi Rhoades. Michaels adopted their then-two-year-old daughter from Haiti in May 2012, and Rhoades gave birth to a son that same month. On her sexuality, Michaels has stated, \"Let's just say I believe in healthy love. If I fall in love with a woman, that's awesome. If I fall in love with a man, that's awesome. As long as you fall in love...it's like organic food. I only eat healthy food, and I only want healthy love!\" The couple announced the end of their relationship in June 2018.\n\nIn an interview with Chris Azzopardi of Pride Source she said \"I didn't even know I was (gay) until later in life. I mean, I realized I was bisexual at about 18 but I didn't even realize I was gay until into my 20s.\"\n\nShe also credits Madonna's \"Justify My Love\" video with helping her find her voice.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2393748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393748", "title": "Juba (sniper)", "text": "Juba (sniper)\n\nJuba () (a.k.a. \"Joba\") is the pseudonym of an alleged sniper involved in the Iraq War's insurgency, featured in several videos. The second of these videos shows Juba claiming to have shot 37 American soldiers. Whether Juba is a real individual, a role shared among multiple individuals, or a propaganda/media creation is unknown.\n\nJuba became famous after remarkable shooting skills were demonstrated in the online videos that were subsequently released.\n\nJuba sniper likely worked in mostly Sunni parts of Iraq, typically the Anbar province which was the bloodiest region for US troops during Iraq War. Juba's videos were of low quality but showed real battle scenes with background nasheeds. In many videos, Juba is seen killing multiple US soldiers with what seems to be a Dragunov, a Russian sniper rifle. Juba is seen killing within ranges of few hundred meters to a thousand odd meters in the released videos with extreme precision.\n\nSeveral video clips which allegedly show the actions of Juba have been circulated over the Internet. Videos included parts of the actual clips taken during anti US sniper ops with digital cameras mounted over the sniper rifle.\n\nIn November 2005, a video which was circulating in Iraq appeared on the Internet. The video, attributed to the Sunni insurgent group Islamic Army in Iraq, showed American soldiers being shot and falling to the ground. The video starts with a man saying, \"I have nine bullets in this gun, and I have a present for George Bush. I am going to kill nine Soldiers. I am doing this for the viewers to watch. God is great. God is great.\" With that, he makes his way from the vehicle, and a series of separate scenes follow showing several individuals shot in action.\n\nA second \"Juba\" video was distributed in 2006 in western Baghdad and released on the Internet in late October 2006. The video contained an interview with the supposed commander of the Baghdad sniper division, the footage shows numerous fighters being trained in the use of sniper rifles. The video discusses the alleged fear generated in coalition forces by insurgency snipers and shows \"Juba\" returning from a sniping mission, marking a tally of 37 on a wall. The sniper then sits down to make a diary entry. The video claims that there are dozens of snipers operating within the IAI and other factions, and shows more being trained. The rest of the video shows numerous clips of U.S. soldiers being sniped with \"nasheed\" music in the background, and an insurgent commander explaining that his men are inspired and trained to an extent based on the information in the book \"The Ultimate Sniper\" by retired Major and U.S. Army sniper John Plaster.\n\nIn December 2007, \"Juba - The Baghdad Sniper 3\" was released on the Internet. The production quality of the video was improved from Islamic Army's previous releases; the video was made available in nine languages. This video also refers to a website that is supposedly connected to the Juba character. In 2008, \"Juba - The Baghdad Sniper 4\" was released on the Internet and on that website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7275736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7275736", "title": "Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn", "text": "Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn\n\nJulius Echter von Mespelbrunn (18 March 1545 – 9 September 1617) was Prince-Bishop of Würzburg from 1573. He was born in Mespelbrunn Castle, Spessart (Lower Franconia) and died in Würzburg. \n\nHe was educated in Mainz, Leuven, Douai, Paris, Angers, Pavia, and Rome. In Rome he became a licentiate of canon and civil law. In 1567 he entered on his duties as canon of Würzburg, an office to which he had been appointed in 1554; in 1570 he became the dean of the cathedral chapter, and in 1573, at the age of twenty-eight, even before his ordination to the priesthood, was appointed to the office of the Prince-Bishop of Würzburg. \n\nDuring the first ten years of Echter's government, the attempt to unite the Abbey of Fulda and the Bishopric of Würzburg, after the deposition of the Prince-Abbot Balthasar von Dernbach, caused much confusion. From the beginning, he carried out a thorough ecclesiastical restoration. To this end, he promoted the Jesuits and their ministry. Echter re-founded the University of Würzburg which was opened 2 January 1582. It became a model for all similar Counter-Reformation institutions. Under the Jesuits it flourished, grew rapidly, and furnished the see with the priests and officials needed to prosecute the Counter-Reformation. The bishop took decisive steps against Protestantism. He banished all Lutheran preachers from his territory and removed all priests who were unwilling to observe the rules of their office. Public officials had to be Catholics, and none but Catholic teachers could be appointed. He began, moreover, courses of careful instruction for non-Catholics, and to some extent threatened them with penalties and even with banishment. Within three years about 100,000 returned to the Catholic Church. \n\nEchter died on 9 September 1617 at Marienberg Fortress.\n\nThe main part of his body was buried at the Würzburg Cathedral. Julius Echter von Mespelbrunn broke with the tradition of heart burial at Ebrach Abbey and had his heart buried in the \"\", a church which he had had built. After the \"Neubaukirche\" was destroyed in World War II, the heart had to be temporarily transferred. To mark the 400-year anniversary of the re-founding of the university, the heart was brought back to the rebuilt Renaissance church and placed within a heart monument weighing two tons. In the meantime, the church had been secularized and turned into the great hall of the university.\n\nHe is also identified by Dillinger (2009) as one of the \"spearheads of Tridentine reform in Germany. For them, the fight against witches was clearly part of an apocalyptic battle against evil and for the purity of the church\".\n\nHis most lasting monument, after the University of Würzburg, is the Julius Hospital (\"Juliusspital\") in that town, which he founded with the endowment of the abandoned monastery of Heiligenthal. By skillful administration he improved the economic conditions, reduced taxes and improved the administration of justice. He proved himself one of the most capable rulers of his time. As the \"founder and soul of the Catholic League\", he exercised a decisive influence on the future of Germany.\n\nEchter also had around 300 churches built or renovated as well as constructing numerous rectories and school buildings in his territory.\n\n\"Würzburger Hofbräu\" makes a wheat beer called \"Julius Echter Hefe-Weissbier\" in honor of the bishop.\n\nThe Old Library of \"Magdalene College, Cambridge\" has books previously owned by the bishop in their collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "1647568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647568", "title": "Karl Hillebrand", "text": "Karl Hillebrand\n\nKarl Hillebrand (September 17, 1829 - October 19, 1884) was a German author.\n\nHe was born at Gießen, the son of Joseph Hillebrand, a literary historian and writer on philosophic subjects.\n\nKarl Hillebrand became involved, as a student in Heidelberg, in the Baden revolutionary movement, and was imprisoned in Rastatt in 1849. He succeeded in escaping and lived for a time in Strassburg, Paris — where for several months he was Heinrich Heine's secretary — and Bordeaux. He continued his studies, and after obtaining the doctor's degree at the Sorbonne, he was appointed teacher of German in the Ecole militaire at St Cyr, and shortly afterwards, professor of foreign literatures at Douai.\n\nOn the outbreak of the Franco-German War, he resigned his professorship and acted for a time as correspondent to \"The Times\" in Italy. He then settled in Florence, where he died on October 19, 1884.\n\nHillebrand wrote with facility and elegance in French, English and Italian, besides his own language. His essays, collected under the title \"Zeiten, Völker and Menschen\" (Berlin, 1874-1885), show clear discernment, a finely balanced cosmopolitan judgment and grace of style.\n\nHe undertook to write the \"Geschichte Frankreichs von der Thronbesteigung Ludwig Philipps bis zum Fall Napoleons III\", but only two volumes were completed (to 1848) (2nd ed., 1881-1882). In French he published \"Des conditions de la bonne comedie\" (1863), \"La Prusse contemporaine\" (1867), \"Etudes italiennes\" (1868), and a translation of O. Müller's \"Griechische Literaturgeschichte\" (3rd ed., 1883).\n\nIn English, he published \"Public Instruction in the United States\" (1869) and his Royal Institution Lectures on \"German Thought during the Last Two Hundred Years\" (1880). He also edited a collection of essays dealing with Italy, under the title \"Italia\" (4 vols, Leipzig, 1874-1877).\n\n"}
{"id": "1980899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980899", "title": "Kat Slater", "text": "Kat Slater\n\nKathleen \"Kat\" Moon (also Slater) is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", played by Jessie Wallace. She was also played by Kate Peck in a flashback in 2001. Kat is the daughter of Viv Slater and Charlie Slater (Derek Martin), and arrived with her sisters Lynne Hobbs (Elaine Lordan) and Little Mo Morgan (Kacey Ainsworth). Her daughter Zoe Slater (Michelle Ryan) is initially believed to be her sister as well until Kat reveals she was raped by her uncle Harry Slater (Michael Elphick) as a child. She later marries Alfie Moon (Shane Richie). It is later revealed that Kat also gave birth to a son, Zoe's twin brother. She appeared in the show from September 2000 to November 2004, then returned in May 2005 following a period of maternity leave. She left on 25 December 2005, and returned on 17 September 2010, to leave again in January 2012 and return on 7 June 2012. \n\nHer return since 2010 has seen her \"son\" Tommy dying from SIDS, however it is revealed that her real son Tommy Moon had been swapped by Ronnie Branning (Samantha Womack), suffering a miscarriage, an affair with Derek Branning (Jamie Foreman) which briefly ends her marriage with Alfie, becoming penniless and permanently scarred in a fire, later becoming a millionairess and discovering that she has a secret son. Wallace, alongside Richie, departed on-screen on 22 May 2015, returning for a short stint from 25 December 2015 to 25 January 2016 before departing once again. The pair reprised their roles as Kat and Alfie in the six-part spin-off series \"\" from May to June 2017. The spin-off reveals that Kat's son is a murderous Catholic priest, Dermott Dolan (Oisín Stack) and ends on a cliffhanger where it is not known if Kat lives or dies. Following the confirmation that \"Redwater\" would not return for a second series, it was announced in December 2017 that Kat would return to \"EastEnders\" in 2018 with her grandmother Mo Harris (Laila Morse) and Jean Slater (Gillian Wright). She returned on 22 March 2018.\n\nSince her return, Kat's storyline has seen her hide a secret from her family, a feud with her cousin Hayley Slater (Katie Jarvis) and Karen Taylor (Lorraine Stanley) and her secret being that she has been unfaithful to Alfie and her son had burned himself with water due to her lack of attention, leading to Alfie kicking her out. \n\nKat is described as \"a bit of a floozy\", \"a bitch\" and \"very lazy\". The \"EastEnders\" website says that as soon as Kat arrived in Walford with her \"fake tan, heavy make-up and hoop earrings\", viewers would know that Kat would bring a dose of \"Viagra to the men of Albert Square\". Richie revealed in an interview with \"This Morning\" that Kat and Alfie would be involved in an ongoing storyline, which he said is \"going to be the biggest soap story in probably the history of soaps.\" At the end of 2010, Kat and Ronnie Branning (Samantha Womack) both give birth on the same day, but Ronnie's baby, James, dies and while Kat is in hospital and her baby, Tommy, is unattended, Ronnie swaps the infants. The storyline received over 6,000 complaints, making it the second most complained about \"EastEnders\" storyline. It was then decided to end the storyline earlier than originally planned.\n\nWallace has won multiple awards for her portrayal of Kat. At the National Television Awards, she was named \"Most Popular Newcomer\" in 2001 and \"Most Popular Actress\" in 2003. Wallace was additionally nominated for the \"Best Actress\", \"Best Dramatic Performance\" and \"Hero of the Year\" awards in 2002, and Zoe's maternity was nominated \"Best Storyline\". She was again nominated \"Best Actress\" from 2003 to 2006 consecutively, and shared \"Best On-Screen Partnership\" and \"Best Exit\" nominations with Richie in 2004 and 2006 respectively. In February 2011, following Kat's return to \"EastEnders\", Wallace was nominated for Best Actress at the 2011 All About Soap Bubble Awards for her portrayal of Kat, and was also nominated alongside Richie for Best Comeback. She won the Television and Radio Industries Club (TRIC) Award for \"TV Soap Personality\" in March 2011.\n\nKat arrives in Walford on 18 September 2000, along with her family: father Charlie (Derek Martin), sisters Lynne (Elaine Lordan), Little Mo (Kacey Ainsworth) and Zoe (Michelle Ryan), and grandmother Mo Harris (Laila Morse). Kat embarks on a brief fling with Steve Owen (Martin Kemp), much to the annoyance of his girlfriend Mel Healy (Tamzin Outhwaite). She finds work in The Queen Victoria public house as a barmaid, where she is an instant hit with the customers. Fiercely defensive of her sisters, Kat is the archrival of Little Mo's abusive husband Trevor Morgan (Alex Ferns), though has a fling with Lynne's boyfriend Garry Hobbs (Ricky Groves). Much to Zoe's frustration, Kat is often over-protective of her. When Zoe announces her decision move to Spain with their uncle Harry (Michael Elphick), Kat refuses to allow her to go. She reveals that she is Zoe's mother, having been sexually abused by Harry aged thirteen. Zoe flees Walford, and Kat attempts suicide by cutting her wrists. She recovers, is romanced by local doctor Anthony Trueman (Nicholas R. Bailey), and later finds Zoe and brings her home. Their relationship improves, but after Kat breaks up with Anthony, he and Zoe begin an affair. Zoe disowns Kat for disapproving of their relationship, and later runs away when Anthony reveals that he is still in love with Kat.\n\nAnthony and Kat's relationship resumes, but she fails to impress his colleagues and breaks up with him as he is about to propose. Kat discovers she is pregnant by him and decides to have an abortion. Her boss Alfie Moon (Shane Richie) persuades her not to, but she suffers a miscarriage shortly after telling Anthony of the pregnancy. Alfie comforts her and realises that he is in love with her. Local gangster Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs) takes an interest in Kat and they become engaged. Kat confesses to Alfie's grandmother Nana (Hilda Braid) that she loves Alfie, and upon discovering this, he stops Kat and Andy's wedding and confesses his love for her. Kat leaves Andy, and she and Alfie marry on Christmas Day. Alfie later borrows money from Andy which he is unable to repay, so Andy threatens to kill him unless Kat has sex with him. A reluctant Kat does so, but unbeknownst to her Andy films the liaison and sends it to Alfie. Alfie becomes cold and distant and Kat resorts to alcoholism. After a one-night stand with a stranger, Roger (Russell Boulter), a disgusted Kat leaves Walford.\n\nSeveral months later, Kat's grandmother Mo discovers that she is in prison for prostitution. Upon her release, Mo convinces her to return to Walford. Kat is determined to win Alfie back, but he is now in a relationship with Little Mo. Though he opts to reconcile with Kat, she is unwilling once she learns of his relationship with her sister. Kat rebuilds her relationship with Zoe, and they part on good terms when Zoe leaves to work as a holiday rep in Ibiza. When Nana Moon dies, Kat comforts Alfie and their feelings for one another once more become apparent. On Christmas Day 2005, they confess their love and depart Walford to travel across the United States.\n\nKat returns to Walford in September 2010, fleeing from a man she and Alfie conned for money. Alfie arrives but Kat is displeased to see him. She reveals to her family that while Alfie was serving time in prison, she had an affair with another man, who proves to be Alfie's cousin Michael Moon (Steve John Shepherd) and is now pregnant with Michael's child. In an attempt to prove himself responsible, Alfie leases The Queen Victoria. He struggles to raise the rent, and enters into a partnership with Michael, unaware that Michael is the father of Kat's baby. After an argument with Alfie, Kat agrees to move to Spain with Michael, but ultimately changes her mind and reconciles with her husband.\n\nKat gives birth to Tommy, and is rushed to hospital the next day due to complications. While she and Alfie are absent, James, the newborn son of local resident Ronnie Branning (Samantha Womack), dies of sudden infant death syndrome. Ronnie swaps the babies in an act of desperation. A devastated Kat believes her father is to blame for Tommy's death, as he left him alone to go for a drink. After the funeral, Ronnie attempts to return Tommy, but Kat misunderstands and believes that she is rejecting James. Charlie opts to leave Walford, although Kat forgives him before he departs. She is shocked when Michael returns to see his son, and upset when he shows no emotion at learning that he died. Kat's friend Martina Quinn (Tamara Wall) and her daughter Shenice (Lily Harvey) visit from Spain. After they leave, Kat and Alfie miss Shenice, and consider IVF to try for another baby. Their consultant feels it is too soon, and their relationship breaks down again, but eventually they reconcile. Four months after taking Tommy, Ronnie returns him and hands herself in to the police. Kat reacts with disbelief, but a DNA test reveals the truth, and Kat is reunited with Tommy. Kat is initially furious with Ronnie, but forgives her when she is sentenced to three years in prison.\n\nKat and Alfie holiday in Spain, and bring Shenice back with them. Upon their return, Kat gets pregnant again. Alfie believes that he cannot have children and assumes Kat has cheated on him, despite her insistence to the contrary. Alfie learns that he is wrong, but Kat is hurt by his accusation and will not let him near her, even after suffering a miscarriage. Kat has a one-night stand with Mark Garland (Chris Simmons), which she instantly regrets. She eventually confesses to Alfie, and tells him that her behaviour is how she is and always will be. Alfie tells Kat he would rather have her cheat on him than not have her in his life. The couple attempt to mend relations with each other over Christmas, but Alfie overhears Kat saying that she thinks he no longer loves her. Alfie books a session with a marriage counsellor, which Kat initially refuses to attend. She turns up late, and Alfie tells her the counsellor never arrived. Alfie pays his friend Gerry (Paul Reynolds) to pretend to be a marriage counsellor, who comes to their home. Kat tells Gerry that she believes Alfie does not love her any more and so she wants to end their marriage.\n\nAfter Charlie suffers a stroke, Kat stays with him for a number of months, until Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons) calls Alfie, who is with Kat, asking him to return as Kat's relative Jean Slater (Gillian Wright) has gone through many troubles involving Michael. Kat returns with Alfie and comforts Jean, who has broken down. She confronts Michael about it, but he continues with his lies, saying that Jean has been stealing things. However, Kat is not fooled and says she will rip him apart when she finds out the truth. She continues to harass Michael and his fiancée, Janine Butcher (Charlie Brooks), until the police get involved and caution Kat and Jean. Alfie informs Kat that he has taken a loan from Eddie Moon (David Essex) but Kat later learns that Eddie is in financial difficulties and so could not have lent them money. Kat is introduced to Derek Branning (Jamie Foreman) who reveals that Roxy and Alfie grew very close while she was away. Kat confronts Roxy who admits she had a crush on Alfie and confesses to giving Alfie the loan. Kat sacks her from her job as a result.\n\nAlfie tries to start a football team for the pub, and Kat takes it over. She flirts in order to get people to sign up, and continues flirting at a party, with Ray Dixon (Chucky Venn), Jack Branning (Scott Maslen), Derek, Max Branning (Jake Wood) and Michael, sharing a close moment with each of them. While in the kitchen alone, an unseen man enters and he and Kat have a sexual encounter. She feels guilty the next day and attempts to neglect calls and texts from the mystery man, who has bought her a new phone. Kat eventually responds and talks with the man to tell him to leave her alone, but changes her mind and they begin a frequent affair, and he supplies them with a flat to use. Kat endeavours several times to end it, but she continuously succumbs. He falls in love with her, with Kat reciprocating, and when he sends Kat flowers, Alfie becomes suspicious. Kat lies they are from Charlie, but Alfie does not believe her and asks her to be totally honest, to which Kat reveals her three-month affair, telling him he does not know the other man. Alfie is furious and throws her out. After a heart-to-heart with Michael, Kat returns to The Queen Vic to ask for Alfie's forgiveness and suggests going away for a while.\n\nAlfie forces her to end her romance, which Kat does, and they go away together to try and salvage their marriage. When they return, they are shocked to be sacked by Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden). However, Kat convinces Phil to give them their jobs and home back, by telling him she is trying to repair their relationship after the affair. When her mystery lover gives her another key to their flat, she writes \"Kat loves Alfie\" in lipstick on a mirror. As time goes on, Alfie becomes steadily more paranoid of Kat's activity, believing she is still having the affair. Alfie follows her the bedsit where there are petals on the bed and candles are lit. She refuses to answer his questions but Alfie finds a letter address to Mr Branning. Alfie goes back to The Queen Victoria where he confronts all three Branning brothers. One of their phones rings, and Alfie answers Kat's call. The phone is Max's, but Kat reveals that it is Derek she was having the affair with. Alfie kicks Kat out of their home and Kat stays with Derek, who promises to show Alfie a message on her phone where she tries to break up with him, but he plays a message where she begs to see him. Kat discovers this and an argument between them, along with Derek's other family arguments, lead to him dying from a heart attack.\n\nAlfie starts a relationship with Roxy, who moves in with Alfie, upsetting Kat. Kat teams up with Bianca Butcher (Patsy Palmer) to earn money cleaning, first at the R&R and then at The Queen Vic after being given a job by Roxy. Kat and Bianca are fired from both jobs, so they decide to set up a market stall together, with Alfie offering money to help them start. Kat is upset when Alfie changes the licensee name from Kat to Roxy on the plaque above the Queen Victoria doors. Alfie helps Kat when she is questioned over stolen goods, but to prove his love to Roxy, he decides he wants to divorce Kat. Kat fights with Roxy, and has sex with Michael, which she regrets the next day, Lauren Branning (Jacqueline Jossa) tells Kat to take control of her life, so Kat tells Roxy and Alfie she had sex with Michael and that he is a better lover than Alfie. Kat has an ongoing feud with Roxy, and is upset when she finds out Roxy and Alfie are trying for a baby. When a man named Josef (Aleksandar Mikic) tries to steal money from the pub's safe, Kat helps Roxy by convincing him not to. Roxy thanks Kat but then accuses her of trying to win Alfie back, which Kat denies. Kat and Alfie receive their decree nisi. Kat says it is not too late to cancel, but Alfie insists he has moved on and proposes to Roxy.\n\nWhen Kat learns that Roxy is not going to meet Ronnie at her release from prison, she goes instead. Ronnie is unwilling to talk to Kat at first, but soon the pair discover that various tragedies in their past mean that they have plenty in common. Kat offers Ronnie a bed for the night, and then gradually persuades Alfie to accept Ronnie's presence back in Walford. This and Michael's death bring Kat and Alfie closer together. The night before his wedding, Alfie visits Kat and it leads to them kissing passionately, but she stops it. Distraught that she cannot be with Alfie, Kat decides to leave Walford, but Bianca takes her to the wedding and Kat walks in to see Alfie say ″I do″ to Roxy. She leaves the church and heads for the airport, but after she has boarded the plane, Alfie embarks and declares his love for her. He is forced off by security and Kat follows, reuniting with a kiss.\n\nPhil decides to sell The Queen Vic, as revenge for Alfie's treatment of Roxy, and Kat and Alfie move back in with Mo. Kat then reveals that she is pregnant by Alfie, and discovers that she is having twins. Having spotted Stacey from the top deck of a bus, Kat decides to track her down. She visits Janine in prison, and agrees to provide a false witness statement for Michael's murder, in return for Janine dropping false charges against Stacey, so that she can return to Walford. At her trial, Janine confesses to her crimes, and Kat is charged with perjury. She is devastated when Stacey hands herself over to the police for Archie Mitchell's (Larry Lamb) murder, five years previously. Kat attends a hearing, and is given a suspended sentence. After the market is merged with Spring Lane, Kat immediately clashes with her new rival, Donna Yates (Lisa Hammond) and is later surprised when Alfie reveals he has bought a pitch on the market. Kat gives birth to Bert and Ernie Moon. Stacey is released after she appeals her sentence and comes to live with Alfie and Kat. The financial situation becomes worse for the Moons when Alfie reveals they are to be evicted as they have not been paying their bills.\n\nKat briefly works the market again, but marker inspector Aleks Shirovs (Kristian Kiehling) forces her off her stall when he discovers she is working and claiming maternity benefit. Alfie lies to her that he has managed to convince the council to give them more time to rally together the money they need, but secretly plans to claim house insurance by setting fire to their house. He does so, but is unaware Kat is inside. She becomes trapped although Alfie rescues her. She is badly burnt and suffers permanent scarring to her face. On leaving hospital, she and Alfie remarry with two nurses as the only witnesses, before returning to the square and moving into a flat Alfie has organised for them to squat in. When the owners arrive, they are thrown out and Kat is angry with Alfie, although out of desperation they squat in a new flat with help from Donna. Lee Carter (Danny-Boy Hanchard) calls the landlord of the flat when trying to fix the boiler, so they are evicted again and they stay at the Vic with Alfie's friend Mick Carter (Danny Dyer). After Kat makes an emotional speech to the social housing manager, they are offered a council house in Hull. Stacey tries to stop her but before they leave Kat discovers a photo of Nana that was not lost in the house. Alfie confesses that it was he who started the fire. Kat, appalled by the disclosure, insists their marriage is over and stays with Stacey and Lily.\n\nMo tells Kat that Harry left her some money in his will. Alfie finds out, and tries to convince her to use the money to make a fresh start after the divorce. She takes the cheque from Mo and later rips it up in front of Alfie, insisting it doesn't change the past nor their impending divorce.\n\nKat begins to have second thoughts about the divorce after Pam Coker (Lin Blakley) gives a speech about love and family. Stacey reveals to Alfie that their rent is increasing and Kat is struggling with money. Alfie then invites Kat to his flat for lunch and they reminisce about their relationship. The next day, Kat lashes out at Alfie for leaving leftovers for the children, but at the urging of Stacey, she agrees to be his date to Ian and Jane's wedding if he makes more effort for making up for the fire. On the wedding day, she gets heavily drunk, and during the reception, shoves Sonia Fowler's (Natalie Cassidy) head into the wedding cake. When the nursery raise their rates, Kat is forced to leave the children in Mo's care to work her shift at the market, but ends up having drinks with Kim Fox-Hubbard (Tameka Empson). When Mo brings the children over to the pub, they misbehave and Kat is thrown out of the pub. Undeterred, Kat and Kim continue drinking and sneak into the pub to steal another bottle of wine. Linda Carter (Kellie Bright), catches them, and while Kim leaves to find the cash to pay for it, Linda prepares to call social services to tell them of Kat's irresponsibility as a mother, but Kat snatches Linda's phone and throws it across the ground. When Kim returns with Shirley Carter (Linda Henry), she confesses her fears about being a bad mother, resulting in the other three women sharing their experiences of motherhood and reassuring her. Kat also tells Linda to speak to Mick about her fears that the baby may not be his. Linda then realises that the phone call was still connected, and promises to fix things to make sure social services do not know about what happened, however Kat receives a call from a social worker requesting to visit her. Kat is surprised when a lawyer visits her about Harry telling her about a compensation case with four other women also raped by Harry.\n\nAfter the visit from the social worker, Kat tells Stacey and Mo that she will start saving up to visit Zoe in Spain. Two days later, Kat receives a text from Zoe saying she does not want to see her. Kat is devastated and she writes a letter to the solicitors about receiving all the remaining money from Harry's will, and intends to post it the next morning. The next day, following a conversation with Shabnam Masood (Rakhee Thakrar), Kat changes her mind and throws the letter away but Mo retrieves it and posts it on her behalf. After Kat is robbed, Stacey discovers that Kat has been overdosing on Tommy's medicine. Kat admits to drinking the medicine to numb out her thoughts about Harry, but promises to stop. When Stacey tells Mo that the money would not be good for Kat, Mo has a change of heart and has Harry's money transferred to her own account. Kat later finds out about this, and then, after burning the money, falls into a depression and tries to kill herself. Alfie finds her and calls an ambulance, at the hospital he admits that he is still in love with her. He takes her home and decides to stay temporarily in order to help her with the children and her upcoming visit from another social worker. During the visit, Kat remains withdrawn from answering questions about how she is feeling and why she attempted suicide and insists she is fine, but Alfie says on her behalf that she is not fine but that they are working on it, and admits to the social worker his feelings of guilt from starting the fire.\n\nAfter she almost kisses Alfie, Kat nearly has sex with Max, but regrets it and goes to Alfie for comfort. The next day, she tells Alfie that she wants to get back together with him, but he tells her that he is not ready as he does not want to hurt her again. This causes Kat to reevaluate her life, so she visits the convent where she gave birth to Zoe to seek some answers, though it is now a nun's care home. A nun, Sister Ruth (June Whitfield), remembers her going into labour and they talk about the past and the future. Kat then leaves and goes to the police station to make a statement about Harry. Ruth checks their records and discovers that Kat also gave birth to a son. Later, a content Kat returns to Walford and tells Stacey and Alfie that she has finally made her peace with the past and is no longer willing to let Harry control her.\n\nKat tells Alfie that she wants to reunite with him, and although he initially resists, he later changes his mind. They buy a lottery scratchcard and win a million pounds. They then plan to move to Spain so Kat can be closer to Zoe. Alfie discovers he has a brain tumor and decides not to tell Kat, so as not to worry her. Kat and Alfie then leave with Tommy, Bert and Ernie to live in Spain.\n\nKat returns to Walford to spend Christmas with Stacey. Alfie follows with the children, and it is revealed that Zoe does not want to see her. Kat is surprised when Sister Ruth visits her, and reveals the truth about her son, whom the nuns called Luke, and Ruth reveals he was adopted by an Irish family. Kat realises Mo knew about Luke, and argues with Mo and Charlie. Charlie has a heart attack and dies, leaving Kat devastated. Belinda returns and blames Kat for Charlie's death. Alfie tells her that he has a brain tumour, but assures her it is benign. Kat vows to attend Charlie's funeral, despite her sisters not wanting her there, but on the day, Stacey is ill so Kat stays with her at the Vic. She makes amends with Belinda and tells her about Luke. Belinda then reveals that Viv once took the family (minus Kat) to a village in Ireland called Redwater, and Viv visited a church and left crying, blaming Kat for this, and Belinda saw a couple with a boy watching them leave. Kat then finds out information about Redwater but she and Alfie then leave for Spain.\n\nIn episode 1, Kat (referred to as \"Kathleen\" in the series), Alfie and Tommy arrive in the Irish town of Redwater, where Kathleen is almost immediately convinced that Andrew Kelly (Peter Campion) is her son, while Andrew's grandmother, Agnes Byrne (Fionnula Flanagan) is suspicious of her. Alfie warns Kathleen to wait for the right time and make friends first, but Kathleen confides in Agnes's husband Lance (Ian McElhinney) that her son was taken away from her in 1983 and she believes he is in Redwater. Lance tells Agnes this, and Agnes immediately says Kat should not be told the truth as it would unravel everything they have built. Kathleen visits the Byrnes' farm and talks to Andrew about his life, but then Lance warns him to give the Moons a wide berth. Kathleen then admits to Alfie that she is scared of seeing how disappointed her son would be in her. Lance tells the local priest, Dermott Dolan (Oisín Stack), that Kathleen is his real mother. It is revealed that Iris Dolan (Orla Hannon) lost a baby in London and brought Dermott back as her own, and her husband Peter (Stanley Townsend) does not know the truth. The next day, Dermott murders Lance by drowning him.\n\nIn episode 2, Kathleen and Alfie are invited to Lance's wake by Peter, and when speaking to Agnes and Lance's daughter, Eileen Harrington (Angeline Ball), Kathleen realises that Andrew cannot be her son. Agnes confronts Kathleen and Alfie, so Kathleen realises that Lance told her why they are there. Agnes says Kathleen gave up her right to see her son when she gave him up, but Kathleen explains she did not know she had a son as she had passed out during the birth. Dermott and Tommy hear this, and Tommy asks if he has a big brother. Later, Kathleen and Alfie decide to return to Spain, but Tommy wants to find his brother. Tommy sneaks out of the house, and Kathleen and Alfie try to find him. Andrew's mother, Roisín Kelly (Maria Doyle Kennedy), tells Kathleen that she saw Tommy at the church, so they go there, followed by Agnes. They find Dermott praying with Tommy, who tells Kathleen that he found his brother. Kathleen realises that Dermott is her son, and Dermott confirms this.\n\nIn episode 3, Kathleen and Dermott have bonded, but she lies to him about who his real father is. Dermott worries that Tommy will tell Peter the truth and threatens him. Alfie realises that Kathleen lied to Dermott, which results in an argument. Dermott overhears them arguing about him not knowing the truth and Kathleen refusing to tell him. In episode 4, Agnes urges Kathleen to return to Spain. When Dermott learns of this he confronts Agnes about taking him from his mother. In episode 5, Agnes tells Dermott to keep Kathleen away from the christening of Bernie Kelly's (Susan Ateh) baby, but Dermott says Kathleen has made him feel welcome and invited him to meet his brothers in Spain, so Agnes reveals that Dermott has a twin sister. Dermott confronts Kathleen over this, who said she was waiting for the right time and insists there is nothing else that Dermott does not know.\n\nIn episode 6, Bernie, a local garda, asks Kathleen about the last time she saw Lance and Kathleen wonders if she suspects something happened, but Bernie denies this. Meanwhile, Kathleen is unaware that Alfie is having an operation on his brain tumour. Alfie asks Dermott to find Kathleen and bring her to the hospital, as it means they are unable to go back to Spain. Bernie works out that Dermott was involved in Lance's death, and sees him on the beach with Kathleen. Kathleen tells Dermott that Bernie was asking about him. He sees the garda arriving so takes Kathleen in a boat, saying they will try to find the whale that was recently seen off the coast. Bernie shouts at him to stop and calls the coastguard. Kathleen asks Dermott if he did something to Lance. Dermott then accidentally crashes the boat into a rock and Kathleen is thrown into the water and cut by the propellor. Dermott gets Kathleen out of the sea but there is nobody around to help. Meanwhile, Alfie has his operation but loses his pulse and the medical staff start to resuscitate.\n\nMo returns to Walford, telling Stacey that Kat has died. Stacey raises money for Kat's funeral, but Jean arrives and tells Stacey that Kat is not dead as she spoke to her that day; Mo has lied to raise money as she has financial problems. Kat returns to Walford and is confused that The Vic is holding a benefit night for her and confronts Mo, but hides when Ian brings the raised money. After Ian leaves, Kat reveals that she and Alfie are taking a break from their marriage and he is in Spain with their children running a bar with a Russian partner after their old bar lost a fortune. Kat, Stacey and Mo arrive at The Vic when Mick is giving a speech about Kat and attempt to maintain that Mo made a mistake, but she starts a fight with Karen Taylor (Lorraine Stanley), which starts a bar fight. Jean pays off Mo's debt, and Kat starts a cleaning business to pay Jean back. Kat is furious when she finds her cousin Hayley Slater (Katie Jarvis) in Walford. She demands that Hayley leave, but Hayley threatens to reveal what has happened in Spain. It becomes clear to the Slaters that Kat is hiding something and it is revealed that Kat has had an affair and was not watching when one of the children burnt themselves, leading to Alfie kicking her out.\n\nIn 2000, \"EastEnders\" executive producer John Yorke decided to introduce the \"classic\" Slater family. He felt the show needed to go back to its roots and bring back some traditional values. BBC's head of drama, Mal Young commented, \"We do not have enough solid families in the soap, there were a lot of fractured families and people who were alone.\" The family were created as a replacement for the di Marco family, who were axed by Yorke. The family consisted of, grandmother Mo Harris (Laila Morse), father Charlie (Derek Martin), his four children, Lynne (Elaine Lordan), Kat (Wallace), Little Mo (Kacey Ainsworth), Zoe (Michelle Ryan), as well as Lynne's boyfriend Garry Hobbs (Ricky Groves).\n\nIt later transpired that Kat was the mother of Zoe, after being raped by her uncle Harry Slater (Michael Elphick). Actress Jessie Wallace was cast in the role of Kat after the character was developed at an improvisation session for thirty actors and actresses earlier in the year. Speaking of her casting, Wallace commented: \"I'm pleased to be playing the champion floosie in the square. I want to achieve Cindy Beale proportions! Basically, Kat goes clubbing, steals other people's men and gets into fights. I love her. Everyone's warned me to expect a lot of stick in the street – Kat's such a full-on character. But I'm prepared for the fact that my life's going to change completely. I can't wait, but at the same time I'm scared.\" Wallace made her first on-screen appearance as Kat on 18 September 2000.\n\nThe character was described as \"a bit of a floozy\", \"fiery\", \"a bitch\" and \"feisty\". Kat is described by the \"EastEnders\" website saying that as soon as she arrived in Walford with her \"fake tan, heavy make-up and hoop earrings\", viewers would know that Kat would bring a dose of \"Viagra to the men of Albert Square\". It continues to read: \"Her mum had died, dad was grieving and nan (Mo) was touting stolen meat off the back of lorries (some things never change).\nKat wasted very little time in establishing herself as a drama queen by shocking everyone with the revelation that her youngest sister, Zoe was in fact her daughter. Then she stole her dishy doctor boyfriend for good measure.\" It continues: \"With her enemies closing in, there was nothing to do but return home to Walford for help, complete with a huge baby bump\"\nShane Richie revealed that viewers dislike seeing Kat and Alfie happy. Speaking to \"Inside Soap\" Richie commented: \"People don't like it when Kat and Alfie are really happy. I never used to believe that, but I do this time around. The way that Jessie and I like to think of it is that there's the curtain in the Queen Vic that separates the bar from their home – until you go behind it, you'd never have any idea there were problems. The bar is Kat and Alfie's public stage.\" With the possibility that Alfie could be the father of Tommy, Richie added: \"As soon as I found out, I thought, 'If Alfie isn't infertile, then surely Tommy could be his son'. Jessie and I spoke about the dates of when Alfie was in prison, and when he saw Kat before she had the fling with Michael. The writers reckon they don't match up, but we think they do. Jessie is quite adamant about it!\"\n\nUpon the return of Kat's father Charlie, Wallace said that this will provide a \"big boost\" to her character. Talking to \"We Love Telly\", asked whether it's important for Kat to see Charlie again, Wallace replied: \"Yes, definitely. With what happened the night they thought Tommy died, things were still unresolved for them. Although they cleared the air before he left, things weren't right between them, so to have him back with her now makes it all the more special. It's also Charlie that makes Kat realise that she needs to bond with Tommy. He makes her see that she can do this.\" Discussing what type of mother Kat will be, Wallace added: \"I think she wants to be the best mum possible. She knows that this is her second chance to make a go of it and she is determined to do a good job.\"\n\nOn 24 April 2004, it was announced that Wallace was pregnant with her first child and that she would take maternity leave from \"EastEnders\" later in the year. Wallace was intended to depart in December, however a pregnancy scare meant that she was forced to stop filming in August, and scripts featuring Kat subsequently had to be re-written. She returned to filming in February 2005 and made her on-screen return in May. Wallace signed a six-month contract in a reported bid to boost the show's ratings.\n\nIn July 2005, the BBC announced that Wallace had decided to leave \"EastEnders\" in a mutual decision with producers. A spokesperson for the show praised Wallace's talent and thanked her for her contribution to the series, stating that \"Jessie and the writers want Kat Moon to go out on a high.\" Kat's exit storyline centred upon her on-off relationship with husband Alfie. Shane Richie, who plays him, also announced his decision to quit in April 2005. In 2009, Wallace stated that she missed playing Kat but had no immediate plans to return to \"EastEnders\", despite rumours to the contrary. She noted that the public still associated her with her role, and that she was flattered people still remembered her.\n\nIn February 2010, it was announced that Richie and Wallace would be reprising their roles as Alfie and Kat respectively, with Wallace commenting that she was \"excited to slip back into Kat Slater's stilettos.\" Controller of BBC drama production John Yorke predicted that their return would make \"fantastic viewing\", given the wealth of new characters introduced since their departure. Wallace signed an initial one-year contract, and returned to filming in July. Wallace and Richie were the first cast members signed by new executive producer Bryan Kirkwood. The decision was made following the resignation of Barbara Windsor, who played Peggy Mitchell, which left what Kirkwood described as a \"hole\" in the programme. Kirkwood decided that the time was right for Kat and Alfie to return, saying that they \"very much herald the new era of \"EastEnders\".\"\n\nThe plot saw Alfie and Kat regaining control of The Queen Victoria public house after it burned down, and Kat returning to Walford pregnant, with some public suspicions about the paternity of her child . To promote the characters' return, the BBC released a trailer across the BBC network in September 2010. The western-themed trailer sees Kat outside of The Queen Victoria, with various characters looking on and Kat saying \"Where d'ya get a drink around 'ere?\" with Alfie replying \"I think you're gonna' need one.\" The advertisement uses the tag line \"It's all kicking off in the square\". The return, in September 2010, drew 9.22 million viewers and 37.7% of the total TV viewing audience. Kat returned on 17 September 2010.\n\nWallace admitted she was nervous about reprising the role of Kat. Speaking to \"TVTimes\", Wallace said she'd feared she forgot how to play Kat. She commented: \"I missed playing Kat,\" she said. \"Now it feels like I've come home. I was nervous at first because I thought I might have forgotten how to play her, but as soon as I stepped back onto the Square she came back to me. Even when I was out of the show, people called me Kat every day in the street. I was flattered and now I'm having a great time. The recent scripts have been brilliant.\"\n\nTalking to \"What's on TV\", Wallace commented on Kat's reunion with Alfie. She said: \"She punches him! Alfie has come looking for her and hasn't seen her for months. He keeps saying to her 'You're fat' and she says 'I'm not fat. I'm pregnant!' Then she says, 'Don't worry Alfie, it ain't yours'. She's peed off with him. He's been in prison and she's had to survive on her own pregnant. But she loves him unconditionally. No matter what they do, they will always end up together. She wants stability... a future for the baby and her. She sets him this challenge and he buys it.\"\n\nRichie revealed in an interview with \"This Morning\" that Kat and Alfie would be involved in an ongoing storyline, which he said is \"going to be the biggest soap story in probably the history of soaps.\" At the end of 2010, Kat and Ronnie both give birth on the same day, but Ronnie's baby, James, dies and while Kat is in hospital and her baby, Tommy, is unattended, Ronnie swaps the infants. The storyline received over 6,000 complaints, making it the second most complained about \"EastEnders\" storyline. It was then decided to end the storyline earlier than originally planned. It was reported by the \"Daily Star Sunday\" that Ronnie experiences a change of heart after visiting relatives in hospital and seeing the midwife who delivered her son. An \"EastEnders\" spokesperson said, \"We do not comment on future storylines but we have always said Ronnie will do the right thing and Tommy will be reunited with Kat.\" Wallace revealed that she doesn't regret her involvement of the baby-swap storyline, saying that she was \"just doing her job\". Wallace told \"Bang Showbiz\":\"I stand by it. We're actors at the end of the day, we do our job and then we go home. It's drama, that's it.\" She also praised Womack's acting and vowed to move on to \"bigger and better things\" after she departed. She added: \"[Samantha is] a fantastic actress who played a brilliant role in a fantastic storyline so I wish her all the best.\"\n\nDerek Martin said he was surprised by the new baby swap storyline when it was published in the media. Speaking on \"This Morning\", Martin commented: \"I'm one of those actors – I don't know how many others do it – but when I get the scripts, I only read my bits. So I looked [and saw], 'Charlie leaves his grandson upstairs, goes downstairs, gets on the drink, gets drunk – the baby's dead'. So that's terrible guilt obviously – because I feel as though it's my fault that he's died. I was surprised when I saw the story come out – because I don't read the others' [lines] – that it was a baby swap.\" Discussing the surrounding controversy of the plot, Martin added: \"Don't forget, there's millions of people – there's 60 odd million here, and they've all got different opinions. Every subject, everything that comes up… everybody will have opinions about that. So therefore you have to accept that's the public – some are for, some are against, and that's the way it is.\" He continues: Over the years, don't forget, EastEnders have always had subjects. When [Charlie's] brother had raped Kat and we didn't find out until later on, that was a very strong storyline. And when Little Mo was bashed by her husband Trevor. These stories are all part of real life.\"\n\nSamantha Womack admitted that she thought the plot was \"implausible\". She commented: \"I thought it was implausible. Most women who lose a child would not go out and abduct one,\" she told the \"Daily Mirror\". \"But Ronnie is a soap character and she is not necessarily representing real life. Soap is based on controversy and sensationalism because bosses are trying to get high ratings and they can't write things like 'Ronnie had a cup of tea'. Otherwise people wouldn't watch it.\" On 1 August 2011, Ofcom cleared the storyline. The baby swap storyline prompted a huge 1,044 complaints reported to Ofcom. Ofcom also added that many of the complaints were made because the storyline was presented \"in an offensive manner\" because it \"appeared to suggest that a mother who has suddenly and tragically lost a baby through cot death would react by stealing another baby to replace that loss\". Kym Marsh supported Ofcom's decision to clear the storyline. Marsh wrote in her magazine section: \"Last week, EastEnders was cleared of wrongdoing by Ofcom, the media regulator, over its baby swap storyline, and I think that's the right decision. It's just a storyline, like any other. I understand why people got upset about it, but no-one meant to upset anybody. Soaps are supposed to portray real life to a certain extent, but it's meant to be high drama for entertainment purposes. I mean, how many murders can you have in one square? There's a nod to real life but, for the most part, soaps help take people out of the real world.\"\n\nWallace previously stated that filming the baby swap storylines \"did not stretch her acting abilities\". She told \"Buzz\": \"None of it's been really tough for me, to tell you the truth. I go in, do my scenes and then I go home. As an actress you want to get roles you can get your teeth into. I leave it at the gates when I leave work. Years ago, with the storyline when Kat told Zoe Slater she was her real mother, I found it tougher because I was new to the game. But I've been doing it a lot longer now, and can detach myself from it. You have to.\" On a lighter note, Wallace added: \"There are two babies playing Tommy, called Ralph and Shane, and they're dressed in outfits like zebra-skin babygros and little denim jackets – that's the Alfie (Shane Richie) influence. They keep going for Kat's big earrings and they're always grabbing at the chicken fillets I have to wear.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"Buzz\", Richie said that although that Kat and Alfie have received Tommy back, the couple still have problems to face. He commented: \"Kat and Alfie are happy to have Tommy back, but they still buried the baby they thought was their son. That destroyed them and their relationship. The cot-death storyline is just the start of what's going to happen to Kat and Alfie. I've also heard rumours about whether Alfie is really firing blanks. He had a fertility test in Spain. Could it be wrong?\" Wallace and Richie have hinted that the plot could have a long lasting impact on Kat and Alfie. Shane Richie added: \"While Alfie happily throws himself into being a dad to Tommy, it's Kat who's going to be finding things difficult.\"\n\nShortly after Kat is reunited with her baby, it was announced that Kat would fall pregnant by Alfie, despite Alfie believing he is infertile. Shortly after finding out she is pregnant, Kat falls ill and is rushed to hospital and discovers that she has suffered a miscarriage. The \"Daily Star\" reports: \"The pregnancy takes Kat and Alfie completely by surprise and neither of them know how they really feel about it,\" a source said. \"Kat is understandably very nervous and anxious about having another baby. Her head is all over the place. But before she has a chance to get used to the idea she suffers a miscarriage. It is a cruel thing to happen to them after everything that they've already been through this year. And once again viewers will be in tears as they watch Kat come to terms with losing her baby.\" An \"EastEnders\" spokesperson added: \"There is a little bit more heartache for Kat and Alfie as they try to rebuild their lives with Tommy.\"\n\nAn additional \"EastEnders\" insider also commented: \"The fact that Kat gets pregnant at all is amazing. Alfie has believed that he was infertile after trying to have kids with his wife for ages with no luck. So when Kat finds out that she's expecting, it's devastating not least because it raises some big questions in Alfie's mind.\" The insider added to \"Inside Soap\": \"Who can blame Alfie for asking some questions here? He stood by Kat while she had his cousin's baby and through the misery of losing baby Tommy. It would be absolutely devastating for him to learn that all this tragedy has driven them apart again.\" \"STV\" added that after forgiving Kat for cheating on him with Michael, Alfie would find it hard to get over another betrayal.\n\nIn 2011, Kat has a one-night stand with Mark Garland as Alfie is showing no interest in her. An insider said: \"The trouble is that while Alfie is busy playing that game, a delivery driver who calls at the Queen Vic makes a big play for Kat – and soon she's facing serious temptation.\" The insider added: \"Kat is vulnerable, insecure and at odds with Alfie. It's exactly the sort of state that could see her do something very stupid indeed. Alfie has done serious damage to their marriage but Kat could destroy it completely.\" Another source added: \"In accusing her of cheating on him, Alfie has undone years of good work in building up Kat's self-esteem. No matter what he says now, she feels as though he still sees her as a woman of loose morals. He cooks up a hare-brained plan to keep Kat by treating her mean – and starts ignoring her, basically.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"All About Soap\" Richie revealed how Alfie reacts. He commented: \"It's the last thing he expected to hear. He didn't see it coming. He's upset and angry, especially when Kat tries to explain how he made her feel when he accused her of sleeping with someone else when she got pregnant again. He obviously didn't mean the things he said then – he just said them in the heat of the moment, but those words have stuck with Kat.\" Asked whether Alfie appreciates Kat's honesty, he replied: \"Not at all – he'd rather not know. Deep down, Alfie knows that Kat has done things in the past that maybe she shouldn't have, but he didn't know all the details. Now he knows Kat has been unfaithful, he has got to confront the fact. The jury is still out on that one,\" he explained. \"I don't know, if I'm honest. They always seem to take two steps forward and then one step back... They do tend to come through these things, so who knows?\"\n\nKat was written out of \"EastEnders\" temporarily in January 2012. The writers for \"EastEnders\" organised \"emergency script changes\" which saw Kat called away to care for her father Charlie after a stroke. A source said: \"It was a very easy decision to make for the show. She is a great actress and extremely popular on set. She'll come back stronger than ever.\" It was announced shortly after Wallace's break from \"EastEnders\" that Sharon Watts, played by Letitia Dean, would return to the series. Numerous tabloids reported that the purpose of Dean's return is to replace Jessie Wallace or to \"fill the hole left behind by Wallace\". This was later denied by an \"EastEnders\" spokesperson. The spokesperson commented: \"There is no link between Letitia's return to EastEnders and Jessie not being around at the moment. We have been working on plans to bring Sharon back for quite some time.\" An insider added: \"Jessie and Letitia are two fantastic actresses and their characters are firm favourites with fans. Viewers can look forward to seeing them back on screen together later this year.\"\n\nKat returned to the show on 7 June 2012. Wallace praised \"EastEnders\" writers for bringing back Kat's funny and feisty attitude. Wallace added that it's like going home to her family and that she has missed Shane Richie. Wallace further explained: \"Before [my] break, I had the baby swap story and towards the end of last year, Kat was becoming very downtrodden. Now she's coming back fighting fit. It's almost like when Kat first arrived on screen in 2000. She's come back with those original feisty, tarty, funny and a bit cold sides to her. It's a new Kat.\"\n\nIn June 2012, it was announced that Kat would embark on a long-running affair with another Albert Square resident after becoming bored with the lack of attention at home. The identity of her lover was kept secret from both the cast and the crew; all scenes of Kat with her lover were filmed with an extra. Speaking of the storyline, Executive Producer Lorraine Newman said: \"The consequences are not only great for Kat and Alfie, but also for each individual suspect. The audience will join the cast and crew guessing across the summer and autumn as we eliminate the suspects one at a time, leading to one almighty explosion.\" After the storyline was announced, five suspects were revealed as potential candidates: Ray Dixon (Chucky Venn), Michael Moon (Steve John Shepherd), Max Branning (Jake Wood), Derek Branning (Jamie Foreman) and Jack Branning (Scott Maslen). In a poll on the website \"Digital Spy\", Jack Branning was shown to be the favourite with 43.5% of the votes. Ray was eliminated when he walked in on Kat while she was on the phone to her lover. Michael was eliminated when Kat confessed to him that she was having an affair. With only the three Branning brothers left as suspects, it was revealed on 20 December that Kat's mystery lover was Derek.\n\nOn 4 April 2015, the BBC announced that Wallace would appear in a six-part BBC One drama series alongside Richie and would also be departing \"EastEnders\". In the series, Kat and Alfie visit Ireland in the \"search for answers to some very big questions\". Speaking about the show, Wallace commented: \"I have always loved working on \"EastEnders\" so when I heard of this new drama to take Kat and Alfie outside of Walford, I couldn’t believe our luck. To be exploring the next chapter for Kat as well as working alongside my best mate, Shane, is a dream come true and a huge compliment.\" The series, \"\" began airing in May 2017.\n\n\"Kat and Alfie: Redwater\" follows Kat and her husband Alfie as they arrive in the fictional Irish village of Redwater to \"search for answers to some very big questions\" and put their past behind them. Treadwell-Collins confirmed that \"the discovery that Kat has a secret son will [...] ultimately lead to the Moons realising that the answers to so many questions lie across the sea in Ireland.\" Director Jesper W. Nielsen said the series is \"About how one woman's search for a lost child opens Pandora's box; revealing the terrible lies and secrets in the little village of Redwater\". Writer Matthew Graham said, \"Kathleen Moon is an unwitting bomb in \"Redwater\" and creating the debris from her explosive arrival is what drew me to this project.\" He also said: \"Everything [Kathleen] does comes out of the fact she doesn't think much of herself. So, her humour and her in-your-face qualities all come out of a place of insecurity. She doesn't think she's good enough. That's what I use when I'm writing Kat.\"\n\nWallace was given a makeover for her part in \"Redwater\", different to how Kat looks in \"EastEnders\". Wallace explained that Kat's different look is because she has \"mellowed\" since leaving Walford and travelling to Spain, which she described as a \"softer side to Kat than we've seen before\", but said she still has a \"fiery side to her, just not as much as we've seen in \"EastEnders\". Wallace described Kat as a \"colourful person\" with \"a lot of layers to her\" and said that after playing her for 16 years \"means there's plenty underneath to bring to the surface.\" She said that Kat wants \"peace and to settle down with no more drama in her life.\" In the series, the character is called \"Kathleen\" by all characters except Alfie, who calls her \"Kat\".\n\nOn 20 December 2017, it was announced Jessie Wallace would reprise her role as Kat in Spring 2018. Her return was masterminded by interim producer John Yorke, who created the Slaters in 2000, and Kat will return alongside her grandmother Mo Harris (Laila Morse), and Jean Slater (Gillian Wright). Yorke commented: \"The Slaters are one of the all-time great families in \"EastEnders\" and Albert Square has never felt quite the same since they scattered to different ends of the country, and in some cases beyond. It has been a real joy to find a way to bring them back together and we’re incredibly excited about where we are taking them next. It won’t just be familiar Slaters either as there are a couple of twists and characters to add fresh spice to an iconic creation.\" Wallace added: \"I am thrilled to be returning to \"EastEnders\" next year and knowing what John Yorke has in store for the Slaters is incredibly exciting. I love Kat and Walford dearly and I cannot wait to get started – watch out Walford, Kat’s coming home.\"\n\nWallace praised Yorke for returning to family orientated drama and for revitalising the Slaters, a family he introduced, stating that there is \"hustle and bustle\" within the family. Wallace explained that upon her return, Kat has \"got debris to clear up, all the damage\" caused by the news of her death imparted by Mo, but her \"fun side\" has returned, but wants Kat to remain single. With regard to other interactions, Kat could \"clash\" with Karen Taylor (Lorraine Stanley), matriarch of the newly established Taylor family.\n\nWallace has won multiple awards for her portrayal of Kat. At the National Television Awards, she was named \"Most Popular Newcomer\" in 2001 and \"Most Popular Actress\" in 2003. She also received \"Most Popular Actress\" nominations in 2002, 2004 and 2005. At The British Soap Awards, Wallace won \"Best Newcomer\" in 2001. The following year, \"EastEnders\" won \"Best Single Episode\" for the episode in which Zoe learns Kat is her mother. Wallace was additionally nominated for the \"Best Actress\", \"Best Dramatic Performance\" and \"Hero of the Year\" awards in 2002, and Zoe's maternity was nominated \"Best Storyline\". She was again nominated \"Best Actress\" from 2003 to 2006 consecutively, and shared \"Best On-Screen Partnership\" and \"Best Exit\" nominations with Richie in 2004 and 2006 respectively. She was further nominated in 2011 for 'Best Actress'. The \"Inside Soap\" Awards named Wallace \"Best Newcomer\" in 2001, Zoe's maternity \"Best Storyline\" in 2002, and Kat and Alfie \"Best Couple\" in 2004. A 2009 poll by \"Inside Soap\" magazine named Kat as the UK's favourite drama queen in a soap opera. Wallace was named \"Best Soap Actress\" at the 2003 \"TV Quick\" Awards. Following Kat's suicide attempt, Wallace received the 2002 Mental Health Media Award in the \"Soaps and Continual Drama\" category. The character's 2018 return storyline was nominated for \"Most Bizarre Soap Storyline\" at the 2018 \"Digital Spy\" Reader Awards. \n\nA 2010 poll by \"Just Eat\" to find the \"most desired dinner companions\" from \"EastEnders\" put Kat in second place. After the announcement of Jessie Wallace playing the role of Kat, Steve Hendry from the \"Sunday Mail\" referred to Kat as a \"stunner\". In February 2011, following Kat's return to \"EastEnders\", Wallace was nominated for Best Actress at the 2011 All About Soap Bubble Awards for her portrayal of Kat, and was also nominated alongside Richie for Best Comeback. She won the Television and Radio Industries Club (TRIC) Award for \"TV Soap Personality\" in March 2011. Also in February, the scenes revealing Kat as Zoe's mother has become \"one of the most iconic moments in the history of EastEnders\". In September 2011, Kat and Andy's wedding was voted as a \"wedding from hell\" by \"Yahoo!\". After the announcement that Kat is to have a miscarriage, Tony Stewart from the \"Daily Mirror\" said that after the baby swap storyline, this is perhaps \"too much agony for Kat to bear\". An \"EastEnders\" source added that \"It is a cruel thing to happen to them after everything that they've already been through this year\". Laura-Jayne Tyler of \"Inside Soap\" enjoyed Kat's 2018 reintroduction and said that Wallace returned \"on full gas, giving nothing less than her trademark powerhouse performances\". She felt that Kat's return gave the show \"the vital spark [it has] been missing.\" She added, \"You can take the girl out of Walford, but you'll never take Walford out of the girl...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1118424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118424", "title": "Keiji Nishitani", "text": "Keiji Nishitani\n\nHe held the principal Chair of Philosophy and Religion at Kyoto University from 1943 until becoming emeritus in 1964. He then taught philosophy and religion at Ōtani University. At various times Nishitani was a visiting professor in the United States and Europe.\n\nAccording to James Heisig, after being banned from holding any public position by the United States Occupation authorities in July 1946, Nishitani refrained from drawing \"practical social conscience into philosophical and religious ideas, preferring to think about the insight of the individual rather than the reform of the social order.\"\n\nIn James Heisig's \"Philosophers of Nothingness\" Nishitani is quoted as saying \"The fundamental problem of my life … has always been, to put it simply, the overcoming of nihilism \"through\" nihilism.\"\n\nOn Heisig's reading, Nishitani's philosophy had a distinctive religious and subjective bent, drawing Nishitani close to existentialists and mystics, most notably Søren Kierkegaard and Meister Eckhart, rather than to the scholars and theologians who aimed at systematic elaborations of thought. Heisig further argues that Nishitani, \"the stylistic superior of Nishida,\" brought Zen poetry, religion, literature, and philosophy organically together in his work to help lay the difficult foundations for a breaking free of the Japanese language, in a similar way to Blaise Pascal or Friedrich Nietzsche. Furthermore, Heisig argues that, unlike Nishida, who had supposedly focused on building a philosophical system and who, towards the end of his career, began to focus on political philosophy, Nishitani focused on delineating a standpoint \"from which he could enlighten a broader range of topics,\" and wrote more on Buddhist themes towards the end of his career. In works such as \"Religion and Nothingness\" Nishitani focuses on the Buddhist term sunyata (emptiness/nothingness) and its relation to Western nihilism. To contrast with the Western idea of nihility as the absence of meaning Nishitani; sunyata relates to the acceptance of anatta, one of the three Right Understandings in the Noble Eight fold Path and the rejection of the ego in order to recognize the Pratītyasamutpāda, to be one with everything. Stating: \"All things that are in the world are linked together, one way or the other. Not a single thing comes into being without some relationship to every other thing.\"\n\nHowever, Nishitani always wrote and understood himself as a \"philosopher\" akin in spirit to Nishida insofar as the teacher—always bent upon fundamental problems of ordinary life—sought to revive a path of life walked already by ancient predecessors, most notably in the Zen tradition. Nor can Heisig's reading of Nishitani as \"existentialist\" convince in the face of Nishitani's critique of existentialism—a critique that walked, in its essential orientation, in the footsteps of Nishida's \"Investigation of the Good\" (Zen no Kenkyū).\n\nAmong the many works authored by Nishitani in Japanese, are the following titles: \"Divinity and Absolute Negation\" (Kami to zettai Mu; 1948), \"Examining Aristotle\" (Arisutoteresu ronkō; 1948); \"Religion, Politics, and Culture\" (Shūkyō to seiji to bunka; 1949); \"Modern Society's Various Problems and Religion\" (Gendai shakai no shomondai to shūkyō; 1951); \"Regarding Buddhism\" (Bukkyō ni tsuite; 1982); \"Nishida Kitaro: The Man and the Thought\" (Nishida Kitarō, sono hito to shisō; 1985); \"The Standpoint of Zen\" (Zen no tachiba; 1986); \"Between Religion and Non-Religion\" (Shūkyō to hishūkyō no aida; 1996). His written works have been edited into a 26-volume collection \"Nishitani Keiji Chosakushū\" (1986-1995). A more exhaustive list of works is accessible on the Japanese version of the present wikipage.\n\nMonographs\nNishitani Keiji. 1982. \"Religion and Nothingness\". Translated by Jan Van Bragt. Berkeley: University of California Press. ()\nNishitani Keiji. 1990. \"The Self-Overcoming of Nihilism\". Translated by Graham Parkes and Aihara Setsuko. Albany: State University of New York Press.\nNishitani Keiji. 1991. \"Nishida Kitarō\". Translated by Yamamoto Seisaku and James W. Heisig. Berkeley: University of California Press.\nNishitani Keiji. 2006. \"On Buddhism\". Translated by Yamamoto Seisaku and Robert E. Carter. Albany: State University of New York Press.\nNishitani Keiji. 2012. \"The Philosophy of Nishitani Keiji 1900-1990 - Lectures on Religion and Modernity\". Translated by Jonathan Morris Augustine and Yamamoto Seisaku. New York: The Edwin Meller Press. ()\n\nArticles\nNishitani Keiji. 1960. ”The Religious Situation in Present-day Japan.” \"Contemporary Religions in Japan\", 7-24.\nNishitani Keiji. 1984. ”Standpoint of Zen.” Translated by John C. Maraldo. \"The Eastern Buddhist\" 17/1, 1–26.\nNishitani Keiji. 1989. ”Encounter with Emptiness.” In \"The Religious Philosophy of Nishitani Keiji\" (edited by Taitetsu Unno). Jain Publishing Company. 1-4.\nNishitani Keiji. 1990. \"Religious-Philosophical Existence in Buddhism.\" Translated by Paul Shepherd. \"The Eastern Buddhist\" (New Series) 23, 1-17.\nNishitani Keiji. 2004a. ”The Awakening of Self in Buddhism.” In \"The Buddha Eye - An Anthology of the Kyoto School and Its Contemporaries\" (edited by Frederick Franck). World Wisdom: Bloomington, Indiana. 11–20.\nNishitani Keiji. 2004b. ”The I-Thou Relation in Zen Buddhism.” In \"The Buddha Eye - An Anthology of the Kyoto School and Its Contemporaries\" (edited by Frederick Franck). World Wisdom: Bloomington, Indiana. 39–53.\nNishitani Keiji. 2004c. ”Science and Zen.” In \"The Buddha Eye - An Anthology of the Kyoto School and Its Contemporaries\" (edited by Frederick Franck). World Wisdom: Bloomington, Indiana. 107–135.\nNishitani Keiji. 2008. ”My Views on ”Overcoming Modernity”.\" In \"Overcoming Modernity - Cultural Identity in Wartime Japan\" (translated and edited by Richard Calichman). New York: Columbia University Press. 51-63.\n\n"}
{"id": "19755250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19755250", "title": "Laura Lederer", "text": "Laura Lederer\n\nLaura J. Lederer (born 1951) is a pioneer in the work to stop human trafficking. She is a legal scholar and former Senior Advisor on Trafficking in Persons in the Office for Democracy and Global Affairs of the United States Department of State. She has also been an activist against human trafficking, prostitution, pornography, and hate speech. Lederer is founder of The Protection Project, a legal research institute at Johns Hopkins University devoted to combating trafficking in persons.\n\nLederer was born in the Detroit area, to parents Natalie and Creighton Lederer, a civil engineer and later Detroit Commissioner of Buildings and Safety in the Coleman Young administration. She was born into a multifaith household, with a Jewish father and Lutheran mother who were practicing Unitarian Universalists, and studied comparative religion as an undergraduate at University of Michigan. As part of her undergraduate work, she spent two years studying under and working for David Noel Freedman, and graduated with a BA \"magna cum laude\" in 1975.\n\nIn the mid-1970s she was an activist and leader in the violence against women movement. In 1977 she helped found and then directed the first women's anti-pornography organization in the country. Also in 1977, became an associate of the Women's Institute for Freedom of the Press (WIFP). WIFP is an American nonprofit publishing organization. The organization works to increase communication between women and connect the public with forms of women-based media. She founded and directed The Protection Project, a legal research and human rights institute at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1997. There, she collected and translated foreign national law on involuntary servitude, slavery, trafficking in persons and related issues and created an international database housing over 3,000 statutes from 190 countries. She also tracked global routes, patterns, and trends in human trafficking and published the first Human Rights Report on Trafficking in Persons. In 2000, she moved The Protection Project to Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), where it is housed today.\n\nDuring the drafting of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, from 1998 to 2000, she served as a witness in hearings held by Representatives Chris Smith and Sam Gjendenson in the House of Representatives International Subcommittee on Human Rights and the late Senator Paul Wellstone and Sam Brownback in the Senate, testifying on the global nature and scope of the problem of trafficking in persons. She brought trafficking victims from over a dozen countries to testify in Congress. In 1998, she also played a vital role in bringing together a new bi-partisan anti-trafficking coalition of women's groups such as Equality Now, and faith-based groups such as The Salvation Army, and the National Association of Evangelicals. This coalition played an important role in the passage of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.\n\nIn 2001, as Deputy Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State she helped stand up the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the U.S. Department of State. In From 2002 – 2007, she served as Senior Advisor on Trafficking in Persons to Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs, Paula J. Dobriansky. In that capacity she advised the Under Secretary on policy formulation and development, program creation and implementation, and long-range planning for the Office for Global Affairs. She represented the Under Secretary at high-level national and international meetings, spoke extensively as a recognized expert at governmental, inter-governmental, non-governmental, academic and other conferences, seminars, and meetings. She also advised the Ambassador-at-Large on Trafficking in Persons and other key governmental officials, as well as serving as liaison to civil society.\n\nCurrently Laura Lederer is affiliated with the anti-trafficking NGOs Global Centurion and Triple S Network.\n\nShe is also an Adjunct Professor of Law at Georgetown Law Center where teaches (with Professor Mohamad Mattar) a course entitled, \"International Trafficking in Persons,\" a JD/LLM class that covers U.S federal and state law on human trafficking; foreign national anti-trafficking law; and international instruments addressing human trafficking. The course also examines the global scope of the trafficking problem including trafficking routes and patterns; the similarities and differences between sex and labor trafficking; the relationship of human trafficking to drug and arms trafficking; trafficking and terrorism; the public health implications of trafficking; child sex tourism; trafficking and international migration; transnational issues in trafficking such as international peacekeeping, corruption, money-laundering, international adoption, and more.\n\nIn late 1976, she accompanied a friend to a San Francisco conference on violence against women. A display at the conference included images from magazine advertising, softcore pornography, and hardcore pornography, including child pornography. Lederer stated in a later interview: \"You saw the influence of the really hard-core images, back through the soft-core to the mainstream. Images were repeated. That's how I got involved. It kind of clicked.\" Several participants in the conference proposed to keep meeting and form an organization devoted to protesting violent images of women. In January 1977, this organization was started, which after several name changes became Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media (WAVPM). Lederer signed on as the organization's national coordinator and editor of its newsletter.\n\nAs coordinator of WAVPM, Lederer helped organize protests and boycotts against companies such as Max Factor and Finnair whose advertising the organization felt encouraged violence against women. She also organized educational tours of pornographic businesses in San Francisco's red light districts, a tactic later emulated by Women Against Pornography. Lederer worked closely with then-Supervisor Dianne Feinstein on a San Francisco anti-pornography zoning ordinance targeting sex-related businesses. Lederer was aided in this effort by the fact that her father, in the role of Building Commissioner in Detroit, had worked vigorously for shaping and enforcing a similar zoning ordinance in that city. Lederer traveled to Detroit to research the ordinance there, and passed the results along to Feinstein. Though the zoning ordinance faced stiff opposition (notably from the San Francisco ACLU and from Harvey Milk), a milder version of this ordinance was passed in 1978.\n\nIn the summer of 1978, Lederer brought on Lynn Campbell to help organize WAVPM and together they helped organize Feminist Perspectives on Pornography, the first national anti-pornography feminist conference held in San Francisco on November 17–19, 1978. The conference drew many well known feminist speakers, notably Gloria Steinem, Robin Morgan, Phyllis Chesler, Kathleen Barry, Susan Brownmiller and Andrea Dworkin. This conference was significant in that it served as a galvanizing event for the anti-pornography feminist movement in the United States. The final event of the conference was the first Take Back the Night march, which converged on the Broadway red light district. The talks given during the event were later collected in the anthology \"\"—a work which was compiled and edited by Lederer and would go on to stand as a key document in the emerging feminist anti-pornography movement.\n\nIn 1994, Lederer founded The Protection Project, a legal research institute dedicated to tracking and combating human trafficking. There, she created a database of foreign national law on involuntary servitude, slavery, trafficking in persons and related issues. In 1998 Lederer oversaw the project's transition to the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, where she remained for three years (1998 – 2001). A core component of this work centered on the publication of the first Human Rights Report on Trafficking in Persons, a document pre-dating the U.S. government TIP Report that tracked and evaluated in 194 countries the global routes, patterns, and trends in human trafficking as well as laws, law enforcement, and case law addressing it.\n\nDuring the drafting of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act, from 1998 to 2000, she served as a witness in Senate Foreign Relations Committee and House International Relations Committee hearings held by Representatives Chris Smith and Sam Gejdenson and the late Senator Paul Wellstone and Senator Sam Brownback, testifying on the global nature and scope of the problem of trafficking in persons. She was instrumental in bringing trafficking victims from over a dozen countries to testify in Congress. In 1998, she also helped bring together a new bi-partisan anti-trafficking coalition of women's groups and faith-based groups. This coalition played a role in the passage of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.\n\nIn 2001, as Deputy Senior Advisor to the Secretary of State she helped set up the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the U.S. Department of State. In From 2002–2009, she served as Senior Advisor on Trafficking in Persons to Under Secretary of State for Democracy and Global Affairs, Paula J. Dobriansky. In that capacity she advised the Under Secretary on policy formulation and development, program creation and implementation, and long-range planning for the Office for Global Affairs.\n\nLederer was Senior Advisor on Human Trafficking at the U.S. Department of State during the administration of George W. Bush. She was responsible for designing specialized anti-trafficking programs, including \"TIP and New Technologies,\" \"The Economics of Trafficking,\" \"The Health Implications of Trafficking,\" and a new program to research the impact of sex selection and gender imbalance on human trafficking. In addition to her duties as Senior Advisor, she was instrumental in creating the Senior Policy Operating Group on Trafficking in Persons, for which she was Executive Director from 2001–2009. This high-level interagency policy group staffs the cabinet-level President's Interagency Task Force on Trafficking in Persons. She is also an Adjunct Professor of Law at the Georgetown University Law Center.\n\nAs of 2010, Lederer is actively involved in combating human trafficking. Both in her role as President of Global Centurion, a Washington DC based NGO which seeks to eradicate child sex trafficking by focusing on the demand for trafficked children; and as founder and coordinator of Triple S Network, a group of nearly 100 NGOs active against sex trafficking.\n\n\nLederer engaged in designing grant programs for philanthropic organizations. She served as an officer at the Skaggs Foundation beginning in 1979 and was a founding member of the Global Fund for Women in 1987. In 1989, she began her legal education at University of San Francisco before transferring after one year to DePaul University College of Law, where she earned a Juris Doctor in 1994.\nShe served as Program Officer for Community Concerns at the L.J. and Mary C. Skaggs Foundation, during which times she created a special International Women's Program\n\nShe received her B.A. magna cum laude in comparative religions from the University of Michigan. After 10 years in philanthropy as director of community and social concerns at a private foundation, she continued her education at the University of San Francisco Law School and DePaul College of Law and received her Juris Doctorate in June 1994. She received scholarships from the University of San Francisco Law School's Alumni Women's Association and was Mansfield Fellow of Law at DePaul College of Law in 1992. In 1997, she received the Gustavus Meyers Center for Study of Human Rights Annual Award for Outstanding Work on Human Rights for her work on harmful speech issues. She served on the Peer Review Advisory Committee, U.S. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the research project, \"Sexual Exploitation and Family Violence,\" 1984-1986, and was the youngest member of the National Task Force on Missing Children Advisory Council, U.S. Office of Juvenile Justice, in 1985. \n\nI am happy to be here, on Law Day, to talk with you about human trafficking. For the past few years I have been calling human trafficking ... a contemporary form of slavery. When I first made the comparison, I took some heat. Critics said that \"slavery\" was too strong a term. That it referenced a particular period in our country's history ... that true slavery doesn't exist today. [However] as I examined it further, I became convinced that the comparison was apt. In a previous century, Africans labored in the tobacco fields, and slaves were bred for strength and endurance. The fields have been replaced by brothels and sex shops, and the new trade is in young women and children. Yet even with these changes, the similarities are striking:\nUnlike drugs ... human beings can be sold over and over again. ... The problem has always been marginalized, but it is so great that it can't be ignored any longer.\n\nWe started by bringing trafficking victims from Russia, the Ukraine, Nepal, India, and Mexico to the U.S. House and Senate to testify at Congressional hearings, because we knew that if American citizens heard their terrible stories we would be successful in passing a new law. We organized education and awareness campaigns on sex trafficking and labor trafficking in the U.S. and abroad. And, perhaps most important, we dared to challenge a subtext in the mainstream human rights movement, a subtext that said, \"If we can only get AIDS, STDs, violence, exploitation and rape, drug addiction and drug trafficking, international organized crime and other horrible elements out of prostitution, then it could be a legitimate career option for young women.\nIn addition to the three Ps (Prevention, Prosecution, and Protection) we also need the four Rs: rescue, rehabilitation, restoration, and reintegration.\nHuman trafficking ... must be fought on three fronts: Supply, demand, distribution. You have to address all three at one time instead of just one or the other. Preventive campaigns without interdiction, without the high penalties that make it high risk, will not work. Likewise, it is important to address the demand side: the customers who purchase trafficked humans. There is explosive growth of child prostitution worldwide, often linked to trafficking. [T]he phenomenon is fueled by Western demand, and the U.S. increasingly is addressing demand.\nVictims of trafficking often endure brutal conditions that result in serious physical and mental health problems. These include HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases, as well as other serious communicable diseases such as hepatitis and tuberculosis. Rape, assault, battery, and other forms of violence are also common. Victims of human trafficking also have reproductive problems such as pelvic inflammatory disease, forced abortion, and/or abortion related complications. Unwanted pregnancies are common. Many trafficking victims become addicted to alcohol or other drugs, used to numb the physical pain of long-standing abuse. Finally, the health implications of sex trafficking extend not only to victims and their children, but also to the customers/users, who can be infected or become carriers and transmitters of these diseases. In the U.S., victims are being trafficked from countries as disparate as India, Thailand, Russia, Cameroon, Mexico, Honduras, and many more. Most often, they are from resource poor countries with more than their share of serious health problems. Some of these countries have a thriving sex industry make them epicenters for epidemics. And where people are being moved vast distances around the globe to do someone else's bidding for someone else's gain, the epidemics are moving with them, thereby having a direct impact on the health of the destination country.\nMedia reports would have us believe that commercial sexual exploitation is confined to a few poor regions of the world. But new evidence demonstrates that every country, rich or poor, North or South, produces its own child sexual abusers. Laws and law enforcement to prevent child sexual exploitation are hopelessly inadequate. Around the world, the definition of a child varies so widely as to make it impossible to have a cooperative effort protecting children from sexual exploitation. In Tanzania and the Philippines, the age of majority is 12; in a dozen other countries, it is 14: over 100 countries set the age of majority at 18. But these same countries have variations on age of consent to sexual relations. Thus, what may be illegal sexual relations or statutory rape in England may be legal in a Southeast Asian country. A country that prohibits child prostitution but makes the age of majority 12 has no protection for a teenage child targeted by an adult exploiter. . Countries must examine their definitions of child and the age of consent for sexual relations. As much as possible, nations should regularize these definitions, taking into account what we already know about the universal physical, psychological and emotional development of a human being. Only an international campaign can make cooperation among law enforcement agencies feasible.\"\nSurvivors have a great deal to offer in the realm of anti-trafficking work. They are the ones who have real-life experience with trafficking. They have a knowledge and expertise that cannot be gained from any textbook or course of training. We need to make our programs more survivor-centered, not out of pity for the survivors, but because every aspect of our programs, whether prevention, prosecution, or protection, will be strengthened, and ultimately more successful, if we do incorporate survivors. For example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844096", "title": "Limhi", "text": "Limhi\n\nIn the Book of Mormon, Limhi () was the third and final king of the second Nephite habitation of the land of Lehi-Nephi. He succeeded his father, Noah. Led by Ammon, he escaped from the Lamanites with his people to Zarahemla.\n\nAccording to the Brigham Young University, \"Lim\" might mean people/nation and \"hi\" might mean alive/live in Hebrew. So the name might mean: \"the people live,\" that is, \"the people are preserved alive.\"\n\nKing Limhi identified for his subjects three results of bondage. According to Monte S. Nyman, these three results were apparently all drawn from their scriptures, the Brass Plates, since he was quoting the Lord. Abbreviated, the results are:\n\n\nThe last result needs a little explanation. In Palestine, from which the Brass Plates came, the east wind brings in the hot temperatures from the desert, resulting in drought and famine. In contrast, the winds from the west bring in the rains from the Mediterranean Sea, resulting in good crops.\n\nAccording to Blake Ostler, the clearest examples of covenant renewal festivals are found at the time King Benjamin gave his speech (see -) and at the time of King Limhi's gathering (). Although King Limhi gathered his people just three years after King Benjamin's speech and assembly, Limhi's people had been separated from the rest of the Nephites for many years.\n\nJohn Gee said about him: \"The Book of Mormon implies that Limhi knew his scriptures (in the broadest and most basic sense of the word: writing in general). Limhi, as a passionate scripturist, was the first to want to read the record of a lost people contained in twenty-four golden plates, that matter engaging his attention () even before he attempted to rescue his people (–) or get out of the fifty-percent tax bracket (; ; contrast ; ). Limhi's passionate interest in records and scriptures might also explain why he was righteous in spite of the wickedness of his father (; ), the court (; ; ; ), and the people in general (; ). Furthermore, unlike Noah and his priests (; ), Limhi takes these things seriously (; ). We need look no further than Limhi for reasons to be serious about studying our scriptures.\"\n\nL. Tom Perry compared the people of Limhi with the people of Alma the Elder and said: \"What was the difference between the people of Alma and the people of King Limhi? Obviously, there were several differences: the people of Alma were peaceful and more righteous; they had already been baptized and entered into a covenant with the Lord; they humbled themselves before the Lord even before their tribulations started. All these differences made it appropriate and fair that the Lord would deliver them quickly in a miraculous way from the hand which kept them in bondage. These scriptures teach us of the Lord's power of deliverance.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47614117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47614117", "title": "List of Vogue Korea cover models", "text": "List of Vogue Korea cover models\n\nThis list of Vogue Korea cover models is a catalog of cover models who have appeared on the cover of \"Vogue Korea\", the Korean edition of \"Vogue\" magazine, starting with the magazine's first issue in August 1996.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8338783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8338783", "title": "List of organ transplant donors and recipients", "text": "List of organ transplant donors and recipients\n\nThis list of notable organ transplant donors and recipients includes people who were the first to undergo certain organ transplant procedures or were people who made significant contributions to their chosen field and who have either donated or received an organ transplant at some point in their lives, as confirmed by public information.\n\nSurvival statistics depend greatly on the age of donor, age of recipient, skill of the transplant center, compliance of the recipient, whether the organ came from a living or deceased donor and overall health of the recipient. Median survival rates can be quite misleading, especially for the relatively small sample that is available for these organs. Survival rates improve almost yearly, due to improved techniques and medications. This example is from the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS), the USA umbrella organization for transplant centers. Up-to-date data can be obtained from the UNOS website.\n"}
{"id": "41271254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41271254", "title": "List of recipients of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany", "text": "List of recipients of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany\n\nThis is a list of notable recipients of the top two classes Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.\n\n\nThe president receives the Grand Cross Special Class ex officio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883", "title": "Lists of people", "text": "Lists of people\n\nLists of people by characteristics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32042100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32042100", "title": "Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca", "text": "Lucie Olbrechts-Tyteca\n\nLucie Olbrechts-Tyteca (1899 - 1987) was a Belgian academic and longtime co-worker of the philosopher Chaïm Perelman. She volunteered in 1948 to support his work and developed several aspects of the \"New Rhetoric\" independently in later years.\n\nOlbrechts-Tyteca was born into an important family of Brussels in 1899 and studied several humanities and social scientific methods at the university of Brussels without seeking a career. She married the statistician Raymond Olbrechts, eleven years older than herself, and lived an academical and social quiet life until she met Perelman in 1948.\n\nOlbrechts-Tyteca and Perelman worked together between 1948 and 1984. During this time they worked out an influential contribution to argumentation theory. Their opus magnum \"Traité de l'argumentation : La nouvelle rhétorique.\" led - together with a book of Toulmin, published in the same year - to the end of argumentative Logicism. The concrete contribution of Olbrechts-Tyteca to this and the other joined works is disputed among scholars but prevailing opinion is that she contributed the vast illustrative part, while Perelman outlined the abstract-theoretical aspects.<br>\nThe Belgian academic established herself as an independent scholar with a work on rhetoric and comics, \"Le Comique du Discours\", in 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42352387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42352387", "title": "Mabel May", "text": "Mabel May\n\nHenrietta Mabel May (September 11, 1877 – October 8, 1971) was a Canadian artist in the early 20th century and an organizer of women artists. Based in Quebec early in her career, and later in Vancouver, she was a well-known painter and member of multiple important Canadian artist groups, including the Art Association of Montreal, the Beaver Hall Group and the Canadian Group of Painters. Her works have been displayed at the Canadian War Memorial, National Gallery, the Vancouver Art Gallery and many smaller galleries throughout Quebec. She has been commonly referred to as the \"Emily Carr of Montreal\" due to her interest in landscape and nature. Her art was influenced by her avid interest in French Impressionism.\n\nMay was born to Evelyn Henriette Walker and Edward May. Her date of birth is often reported as 1884, but she was in fact born on September 11, 1877. Her father, Edward May was a self-made man and became the mayor of Verdun, a borough on the outskirts of Montreal. He later became a successful real estate developer and moved her and the rest of her family to a more prosperous neighbourhood in Montreal called Westmount.\n\nThough May displayed an active interest in art throughout her early years, she did not pursue formal education until she was in her mid-twenties. She delayed her education in order to help take care of her nine younger brothers and sisters while her parents worked trying to provide for them. In 1902 she became one of the first female students enrolled in the Art Association of Montreal (1909 – 1912) under teachers Alberta Cleland and William Brymner. There she was awarded scholarships twice. During this time, she exhibited small watercolours as part of the 1910 Art Association of Montreal Annual Spring Exhibition. Cleland was a female artist from Montreal that worked with a broad range of subjects and tools. Brymner was an important influence on May’s style of art, and taught her from 1909 until the end of her studies in 1912. May was influenced by Brymner’s teachings of French modernism, including Impressionism and Post-Impressionism, and his encouragement for students to find their own individual style. These influences took her to France, England and Holland alongside artist and peer Emily Coonan after her graduation in 1912. There she traveled, visited galleries, studied and painted until her return to Quebec in 1916. During her travels she studied with James Wilson Morrice, who strongly influenced her style of painting. In 1916 she would move back in with her family, there she would practice her painting technique in a small cottage while her career began to take off.\n\nThe years following her education brought May a series of remarkable achievements and work opportunities. In 1913 the National Gallery bought three of her art works and would eventually buy two more before 1924. In 1916 after May returned to Montreal to her family she became an Associate of the Royal Academy. There she would join multiple other female artists who worked on commissioned pieces specifically of women and their involvement in the First World War. One of her major works was a detailed six-by-seven foot canvas entitled \"Women Making Shells\" (1919) depicting female munitions workers in a factory. During May’s commissioned employment with the Royal Academy she was making 250 dollars per month, an outstandingly high wage for a female artist in her time and a lot of money to May, who had struggled financially her entire life.\n\nIn 1920, May was a founding member of the Beaver Hall Group in Montreal, which supported the local Montreal art community and organized exhibits of their work. Lacking funds, the group dissolved two years later. May and nine other women artists continued a lasting friendship and working relationship that would later become widely recognized as the Beaver Hall Group. The group continued to exhibit, often including the painters Prudence Heward, Kathleen Morris and Ethel Seath.\n\nDirectly after her involvement and association with the Royal Academy, May, along with Randolph Hewton, Edwin Holgate and Lilias Torrance Newton, Mabel Lockerby and many others founded the Beaver Hall Hill Group. The Beaver Hall Group was a tight selection of talented painters from Montreal; most of them had attended the Art Association of Quebec and/or studied under William Brymner. The Beaver Hall Group was extremely progressive at the time for allowing women to join and hold up important roles and positions. Though the group is rumoured to have disbanded around 1924, slowly losing more and more members, a majority of the female members continued to do artistic work afterwards, nearly all of them sacrificing having children or getting married to do so. Many of the women, who May actually stayed in touch with, continued to work with and exhibit with each other. Of those women were Lilias Torrance Newton, Mabel Lockerby, Anne Savage, Sarah Robertson, Nora Collyer, Kathleen Morris and Ethel Seath.\n\nIn the winter of 1924, May traveled to Baie St. Paul, where she painted with A.Y. Jackson of the Group of Seven. In 1927 May, along with three other women from the Beaver Hall Group, met with the British Columbian painter Emily Carr.\n\nShortly after the Beaver Hall Group had drifted apart, May founded a new group; The Canadian Group of Painters, which officially began in 1933. The groups had their first exhibition the same year of their founding in Atlantic City, New Jersey, followed by another exhibition in Toronto a few months later. The group was the successor of the Group of Seven. May’s involvement with The Canadian Group of Painters lasted a few years, but, while she was in that group financial issues within her family were rising. After leaving the group she began learning to teach and in 1938 she was appointed leader of children’s classes at the National Gallery of Canada. She taught for 12 years until 1950 when she retired to Vancouver, British Columbia.\n\nHenrietta Mabel May's primary medium was painting and she followed the impressionistic technique as her main focus was landscapes. Her paint strokes were very strong and pleasing to the eye as the colours flowed together softly. The colours she used were not straight from the tube but blended for more of a naturalistic approach. While May traveled to France, England, and Holland with Emily Coonan to visit galleries and study various paintings she spent a majority of the time painting and sketching new works. She was inspired by the culture of Paris, which was incorporated into her work.\n\nDuring the time she spent at her family’s cottage in Hudson every summer, she painted the views around her, creating some of her most successful works. In 1913 her paintings began garnering a lot of recognition and attention. She sold four of her works to the National Gallery and continued to sell several more in the following years.She was elected as an associate of the Royal Canadian Academy in 1915. May was a bold painter who painted unusual scenes which shocked society. For instance, her large canvas \"Women Making Shells\" was a powerful painting conveying a scene where women were working in a factory along with men, a novel scene at that time.\n\nSoon after that in 1920 she became one of the founders of the Beaver Hall Group, along with Anne Savage, Sarah Robertson and Nora Collyer who shared May's passion for impressionistic painting. As the years went on May's naturalistic approach of colours as soothing rhythmic brushstrokes developed greatly. After 1920 her art exhibited more realism showing a greater understanding of light and the atmosphere in her landscapes. She began to take on the style of the Group of Seven by whom she was heavily influenced. She also took on a whole new approach which is widely thought to have been influenced by the religious group she joined in the late 1930s. The group was called I AM and believed that one should avoid dark colors because they had negative effects. This is when May’s art was noticed to change more in the direction of stylized landscape rather than impressionism. May’s \"Melting Snow\" (1925) was a reflection of the dancing waters and lyrical mountains surrounded by flat colours and hills. May’s sympathy towards the Group of Seven was expressed through the symbolic treatment of the loose brushstrokes in the sky. May was very involved with her art and taught many classes throughout her life. During 1937 to 1947 May was a supervisor of many art classes that were held in the National Gallery of Canada which was in Ottawa.\n\n\"The Regatta\" (1914) and \"Street Scene, Montreal\" (1914) are both part of the permanent collection at the National Gallery of Canada.\n\nMay exhibited frequently throughout her life. Upon her retirement to Vancouver at the age of 50, she held a retrospective of her work at the Dominion Gallery. This show resulted in the sale of 100 of her paintings. A posthumous exhibition of her work along with other works from the Beaver Hall Group occurred at the Sir George Williams Art Galleries in October 1982.\n\nMay remained single her entire life. After the dissolution of the Beaver Hall Group's studios, she retained close personal friendships with the remaining female artists, including Lilias Torrance Newton, Mabel Lockerby, Anne Savage, Sarah Robertson, and Nora Collyer.\n"}
{"id": "42815177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42815177", "title": "Makarand Dave", "text": "Makarand Dave\n\nMakarand Dave, sometimes referred as Sai Makarand Dave, is a Gujarati language poet and author from India.\n\nHe was born in Gondal, Rajkot district, Gujarat on November 13, 1922 to Vajeshankar Dave. After completing his school education in Gondal, he joined Dharamsinhji College, Rajkot in 1940. He left studies in 1942 to participate in Quit India movement of Indian independence movement. In early life, he came into contact with his spiritual teacher, Nathalal Joshi. He married to Kundanika Kapadia who was also an author, in 1968. He moved to Mumbai later.\nHe served as the editor of \"Kumar\" (1944–45), \"Urmi Navrachna\" (1946), \"Sangam\", \"Parmarthi\" magazines and \"Jai Hind\" daily.\n\nAlong with his wife, he moved from Mumbai to Dharampur near Valsad in 1987 and established \"Nandigram\" for the welfare of Adivasi people and as a spiritual centre.\nHe was referred as Sai by Swami Anand. He was awarded Ranjitram Suvarna Chandrak in 1979. He also received Sahitya Gaurav Puraskar (1997), Narsinh Mehta Award, Aurobindo Award for philosophical and other works.\nHe died on January 31, 2005 at Nandigram, Valsad, Gujarat.\n\nHe wrote poetry, philosophy and on spirituality extensively.\n\nIn Gujarati:\n\n\nin Gujarati:\n\n\nin Gujarati\n\n\nIn English\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50349816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50349816", "title": "Mary Evelyn Hitchcock", "text": "Mary Evelyn Hitchcock\n\nMary Evelyn Hitchcock (pen names, Mary Doyle and Mrs. Roswell D. Hitchcock; March 10, 1849 - April 6, 1920) was an American author and explorer. She was part of the Floradora Company in the early 20th century, and also worked from the New York \"World\" as a reporter.\n\nMary Evelyn Higgins was born in Virginia, March 10, 1849. She was the daughter of Capt. Thomas A. (of Norfolk, Virginia) and Cecelia (Fitzgerald) Higgins. She was educated at Lawrence Academy, where she received academic honors.\n\nShe married Commander Roswell D. Hitchcock, USN, (son of Roswell Dwight Hitchcock) and they had one daughter, Harriet Bradford Hitchcock Harriman (1872-1939). Hitchcock accompanied her husband to the Vienna Exposition, 1873, Paris Exposition, 1878, to Japan, 1882, where his ship remained two years; and again in 1892, when he was captain of USS \"Alert\". After the death of the husband, she made a tour of the world. \n\nIn 1898, she went to Klondike with her friend Edith Van Buren, embarking from San Francisco on a steamer. Their luggage included multiple pets and an early motion picture device called an animatoscope. Hitchcock climbed Skagway Pass on foot before the days of the railroad. She subsequently wrote the book, \"Two Women in the Klondike\", which described this visit to the Yukon.\n\nHitchcock was so impressed with the mining and agricultural possibilities of the Yukon that she spread the knowledge she had gained through lectures, which added largely to funds for churches and hospitals. She returned to the north, where she staked more than 100 claims and because so deeply interested financially that she spent the greater part of five years there. \n\nIn 1904, Hitchcock organized and was president of The Entertainment Club, in New York City. She was also a Fellow of the National Geographic Society, as well as a member of the Daughters of the Confederacy.\n\n\"Two women in the Klondike: the story of a journey to the gold-fields of Alaska\" (New York, G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1899) describes the adventures of Hitchcock and Edith Van Buren, a grandniece of President Van Buren, during a perilous and eventful journey taken in the summer of 1898. Owing to the waters of the Yukon River being low, the two women were delayed for some time at Dawson City where they located miner's claims and lived as squatters. Besides the interesting incidents of travel included, the book included graphic descriptions of the Klondike region, and accounts of local customs and superstitions, as well as mining methods. She died April 6, 1920 and is buried at Oak Grove Cemetery, Fall River, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2770094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2770094", "title": "Mary Everest Boole", "text": "Mary Everest Boole\n\nMary Everest Boole (11 March 1832 in Wickwar, Gloucestershire – 17 May 1916 in Middlesex, England) was a self-taught mathematician who is best known as an author of didactic works on mathematics, such as \"Philosophy and Fun of Algebra\", and as the wife of fellow mathematician George Boole. Her progressive ideas on education, as expounded in \"The Preparation of the Child for Science\", included encouraging children to explore mathematics through playful activities such as curve stitching. Her life is of interest to feminists as an example of how women made careers in an academic system that did not welcome them.\n\nShe was born in England, the daughter of Reverend Thomas Roupell Everest, Rector of Wickwar, and Mary \"nee\" Ryall. Her uncle was George Everest, the surveyor and geographer after whom Mount Everest was named. She spent the first part of her life in France where she received an education in mathematics from a private tutor. On returning to England at the age of 11, she continued to pursue her interest in mathematics through self-instruction. Self-taught mathematician George Boole tutored her, and she visited him in Ireland where he held the position of professor of mathematics at Queen's College Cork. Upon the death of her father in 1855, they married and she moved to Cork. Mary greatly contributed as an editor to Boole's \"The Laws of Thought\", a work on algebraic logic. She had five daughters by him.\n\nShe was widowed in 1864, at the age of 32, and returned to England where she was offered a post as a librarian at Queen's College, London. She also tutored privately in mathematics and developed a philosophy of teaching that involved the use of natural materials and physical activities to encourage an imaginative conception of the subject. Her interest extended beyond mathematics to Darwinian theory, philosophy and psychology and she organised discussion groups on these subjects among others. At Queen's College, against the approval of the authorities, she organised discussion groups of students with the unconventional James Hinton, a promulgator of polygamy. This in part led to her mental breakdown and the dispersal of her children.\nIn later life, she belonged to the circle of the Tolstoyan pacifist publisher, C. W. Daniel; she chose the name \"The Crank\" for his magazine because, she said, 'a crank was a little thing that made revolutions'.\n\nMary took an active interest in politics, introducing her daughter Ethel to the Russian anti-tsarist cause under Sergei Stepniak. After the Boer war 1899-1902 she became more outspoken in her writings against imperialism, organised religion, the financial world and the tokenism she felt that Parliament represented. She opposed suffrage and probably for this reason has not generally been regarded as a feminist. She died in 1916, at the age of 84.\n\nMary first became interested in mathematics and teaching through her tutor in France, Monsieur Deplace. He helped her understand mathematics through questioning and journal writing. After marrying George Boole she began contributing to the scientific world by advising her husband in his work while attending his lectures, both of which were unheard of for a woman to do in that time period. During this time she also shared ideas with Victoria Welby, another female scholar and dear friend. They discussed everything from logic and mathematics, to pedagogy, theology, and science.\n\nHer teaching first began while working as a librarian. Mary would tutor students with new methods; using natural objects, such as sticks or stones. She theorized that using physical manipulations would strengthen the unconscious understanding of materials learned in a classroom setting. One of her most notable contributions in the area of physical manipulations is curve stitching with the use of sewing cards, which she discovered as a form of amusement as a child. This helped to encourage the connections of mathematical concepts to outside sources.\n\nHer book \"Philosophy and Fun of Algebra\" explained algebra and logic to children in interesting ways, starting with a fable, and including bits of history throughout. She references not only history, but also philosophy and literature, using a mystical tone to keep the attention of children. Mary encouraged the use of mathematical imagination with critical thinking and creativity. This, along with reflective journal writing and creating one's own formulas, was essential in strengthening comprehension and understanding. Cooperative learning was also important because students could share discoveries with each other in an environment of peer tutoring and develop new ideas and methods.\n\nShe worked on promoting her husband's works, with great attention to mathematical psychology. George Boole's main focus was on psychologism, and Mary provided a more ideological view of his work. She supported the idea that arithmetic was not purely abstract as many believed, but more anthropomorphic. Pulsation was also important in her works and could be described as a sequence of mental attitudes, with her attention being analysis and synthesis.\n\nBoole was interested in parapsychology and the occult, and was a convinced spiritualist. She was the first female member of the Society for Psychical Research which she joined in 1882. However, being the only female member at the time, she resigned after six months.\n\nBoole was the author of the book \"The Message of Psychic Science for Mothers and Nurses\". She revealed the manuscript to Frederick Denison Maurice who objected to its controversial ideas and this resulted in her losing her job as librarian at Queens College. The book was not published until 1883. It was later republished as \"The Message of Psychic Science to the World\" (1908).\n\nBoole was a practitioner of homeopathic medicine.\n\nHer five daughters made their marks in a range of fields. Alicia Boole Stott (1860–1940) became an expert in four-dimensional geometry. Ethel Lilian (1864–1960) married the Polish revolutionary Wilfrid Michael Voynich and was the author of a number of works including \"The Gadfly\". Mary Ellen married mathematician Charles Hinton and Margaret (1858–1935) was the mother of mathematician G. I. Taylor. Lucy Everest (1862–1905) was a talented chemist and became the first woman Fellow of the Institute of Chemistry.\n\nMary Everest Boole's husband fell ill in 1864, after he had walked two miles in the drenching rain and then lectured wearing his wet clothes. He developed a severe cold and high fever. Mary put her husband to bed and - since she believed in the principle of analogies and \"like cures like\" - thought pouring buckets of water over him might help. Tragically, this made him worse; on 8 December 1864, he died of fever-induced pleural effusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34982053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34982053", "title": "Mewa Singh", "text": "Mewa Singh\n\nMewa Singh (born 11 April 1951 in Maler Kotla), is an Indian primatologist, ethologist, and conservation biologist. He is a professor of ecology and animal behavior at University of Mysore Biopsychology Department in Mysore, Karnataka.\n\nA new night frog \"Nyctibatrachus mewasinghi\" has been named after him which is endemic to the Western Ghats. It is generally referred to as Mewa Singh's Night frog.\n\nSingh's research centers on primate social behavior, including conflict resolution, cooperation, inequity aversion, and food-sharing. He is the author of the book \"Primate Societies\" and co-author of \"Macaque Societies: A Model for the Study of Social Organization\". He has published more than 100 research articles on several animal species. Singh also studies the viability of primate populations and is frequently quoted in the media as an expert in this area.\n\nHe is a fellow of all three Science Academies of India: Indian Academy of Sciences Bangalore; Indian National Science Academy New Delhi; National Academy of Sciences Allahabad. He is also a Ramanna Fellow, DST and a Fellow of the National Academy of Psychology, India.\n\n"}
{"id": "30029120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30029120", "title": "Military career of José de San Martín in Spain", "text": "Military career of José de San Martín in Spain\n\nJosé de San Martín was an Argentine-born general who moved to Spain during his childhood. He served in the Spanish army from 1789 to 1811. During that time he fought among Spanish forces under siege by Moors, in a naval battle against the British navy and in the Peninsular War. In 1795 he was promoted to second lieutenant and during the Peninsular War he reached the rank of Lieutenant Colonel. However, San Martin ended up resigning his position and moved briefly to Britain, and then to Buenos Aries. In 1811, he participated in the Spanish American wars of independence.\n\nJosé de San Martín was born in Yapeyú, Corrientes, son of Juan de San Martín and Gregoria Matorras del Ser. The exact year of Martín's birth is unknown, and historians are divided between 1777 and 1778. An officer in the military, Juan de San Martín requested a new deployment, and in 1781, he moved his family from Yapeyu to Buenos Aires. In 1783, the family moved to Madrid, where Juan made several requests for military promotion. In 1785, they moved to Málaga. Three years later, José de San Martín reached the age to join the army.\n\nJosé de San Martín joined Murcia's Infantry Regiment of Line on July 15, 1789. The minimum age to join the army was 16 years old, unless the person was the son of an official. In that case, the minimum age was 12 years old. In his incorporation, he declares being the son of an official, of a Christian family and twelve years old.\n\nHe was destined to Melilla, an African Spanish city, the following year. In June 1791, he was among the Spanish forces under siege by Moors in Orán. The siege lasted for 33 days, and he was promoted to grenadier. In June 1793, he was promoted to second sublieutenant, in July 1794 to first sublieutenant, and in May 1795 to second lieutenant. His father Juan died in 1796, and by that time he had his baptism of fire in a naval battle, against the British navy. He joined the staff of the \"Santa Dorotea\" in 1798, disembarking at Toulon. He learned a bit of the French language, and became aware of the French Revolution. Oral tradition says that Napoleón Bonaparte passed review of the Spanish troops, and when he passed near San Martín, he saw his jacket and read \"Murcia!\" aloud. The ship was captured by the British ship HMS \"Lion\", and he was prisoner of the British for some time.\n\nThe following reports of San Martín are found months later, then fighting against Portugal. He was attacked by thieves on his way from Valladolid to Salamanca, receiving great injures in his chest and throat. He received medical aid in a nearby village.\n\nThe Spanish monarchy entered crisis during the Abdications of Bayonne, when the Mutiny of Aranjuez forced king Charles IV to abdicate and give the throne to his son, Ferdinand VII. Napoleon Bonaparte, whose troops were in Spain en route to Portugal, forced Ferdinand to abdicate as well, ending Bourbon rule and appointing his brother Joseph Bonaparte as monarch. This was the start of the Peninsular War, the Spanish resistance to the French invasion. Spain was already divided between the enlightenment and the absolutists, but the French invasion divided the ideas even more. The Enlightenment was based in the ideas of the French revolution, but it was the French themselves who were invading the country. The Spanish afrancesados supported the French invasion as a way to remove the absolutist Spanish monarchy and replace it with a liberal monarchy, even if a foreign one. A higher portion of the enlightened Spanish rejected such a perspective, and opposed both the French invasion and an absolutist restoration. San Martín was part of this group.\n\nBy this time, San Martín was second to Francisco María Solano Ortiz de Rosas, governor of Andalucía and a close friend. Solano, influenced as well by the enlightenment ideas, had doubts about using his army to back the Dos de Mayo Uprising, even when requested by the Junta of Seville. Some historians consider him an afrancesado, others just hesitant. A popular uprising overran the barracks, killed him and dragged his corpse in the streets. San Martín was nearly killed as well during the uprising. He would keep an image of him for years, because of their friendship, although he fully supported the popular uprising. He would say years later that \n\nAfter those events, San Martín became involved into the democratic revolution that moves across Europe. Cádiz was by then a very active city, with discussions about Jovellanos, Flórez Estrada, the French and British democratic advances, popular intervention in politics, the role of the Juntas and the military leaders. They initiated planned revolutionary steps within lodges, while the war against the French occupation continued. San Martín joined the army of Andalucía, and moved first to Sevilla and then to Jaén. In June 1808, he joined a force combining regiments and militias, organized by Juan de la Cruz Mourgeón, thus learning further ways to wage war beyond the classic military discipline. This would influence him in the future to have a good opinion of Güemes and Artigas. By this time, San Martín was becoming a renowned military leader. Spanish historian Barcia y Trelles considers that San Martín is a new man since May 1808, but this turning point of his life was overlooked by both the Argentine and Spanish historians. Argentine historians talk in little detail about San Martín's military career is Spain, because they were unrelated with the Argentine War of Independence, and the Spanish ones would not be much interested in him because he departed to America in the middle of the war.\n\nSan Martín took part in the combat of Arjonilla, being promoted to First Captain for his brave actions. In the battle, a French officer nearly killed him with his sword, but he was saved by Sargeant Juan de Dios, who died in the effort. The following July 19 he took part in the Battle of Bailén, where 14,000 Spanish defeated 10,000 French. San Martín was promoted to lieutenant colonel, and his prestige continued to rise. This victory gave new hopes to the Spanish front, forcing Joseph Bonaparte to leave Madrid and allowing later the liberation of Andalucía. However, San Martín is forced to take a license, because of a pulmonary affection.\n\nHe resumed service in Catalonia, under the command of the marquis of Coupigny. He helped Torres Vedras at Portugal, and returned to Cádiz. By this point, San Martín joined the Lodge of Rational Knights. However, Napoleón Bonaparte gave new strength to the French forces, leading them personally, and Joseph returned to Madrid. Despite of the Spanish victory at the Battle of Albuera, where San Martín fought next to William Carr Beresford, France prevailed and conquered most of the Iberian Peninsula, with the exception of Cádiz. San Martín would leave the Peninsular War by this point, but the exact nature of his resignation is unknown because it was lost from the Spanish records, and San Martín himself did not keep a copy of it among his documents. He moved briefly to Britain, and then to Buenos Aires.\n\nThe reasons that San Martin left Spain in 1811 to join the Spanish American wars of independence as a patriot remain contentious among historians. The action would seem contradictory and out of character, because if the patriots were waging an independentist and anti-Hispanic war, then that would turn him into a traitor or deserter. There are a variety of answers and explanations by different historians.\n\nBartolomé Mitre, one of the earliest historians of San Martín, wrote that \"the American criollo had paid with usury his debt to the mother country, joining her during her conflicting days, and could consequently separate himself from her without deserting during an hour of need, leaving her protected by the powerful aegis of Great Britain that guaranteed the definitive triumph under the command of the future victor of Waterloo. Then, he turned his eyes to South America, whose independence he had presaged [...] and decided to return to his distant nation, which he had always loved as a true mother, to offer her his sword and devote her his life\". Besides extrapolating future events (the defeat of Napoleon and the independence of South America), Mitre provided a long-standing explanation: San Martín returned because he missed South America, and the war of independence justified changing sides to support it. This perspective was held by mitrist historians, rosist revisionists and socialists. Those groups shared a common perspective about the revolutions and rebellions that took place in the Americas between 1809 and 1811: they considered that they were, from this early stage, separatist wars, intending to create new countries apart from Spain.\n\nLater historians, such as Norberto Galasso, Oriol Anguerra or Rodolfo Terragno, consider this to be unlikely. San Martín was thirty-five years old by then, and left America when just seven years old. He was completely Spanish, and ideas such as \"the call of the jungle\" or the \"telluric forces\" have no room in modern psychology to explain a change like this. They consider instead, that the wars in the Americas were not initially separatist, but instead wars between supporters of absolutism and liberalism. This fight took place in both Spain and the Americas, and became independentist when Ferdinand VII returned to the throne and started the absolutist restoration. Under this logic, those historians consider that San Martín's move to the Americas to continue a fight about to be lost in Spain would make complete sense. Other historians like Tulio Halperín Donghi or Ricardo Levene hinted the similarities of both fights, but avoid giving clear or deep explanations in order to avoid a conflict with the Mitrist perspective. Most Spanish historians, with a deeper understanding of the conflicts of the Peninsular War, endorse this point of view. José de San Martín moved to Buenos in the \"George Canning\" ship, with other American born generals like Carlos María de Alvear or José Matías Zapiola, but also with Spanish born generals like Francisco Chilavert and Eduardo Kailitz, for whom the \"telluric forces\" would bear absolutely no value.\n\nThere are writings of San Martín that may clarify those reasons, but whose terms allow either interpretation. José Pacífico Otero found a report of a speech of San Martín to his soldiers, where he said that \"I knew of the revolution in my country and, when I left my fortunes and my hopes, I only regretted not having anything else to sacrifice to the desire of contributing to the freedom of my country\". For the Mitrist perspective, \"revolution\" and \"freedom\" mean emancipation from Spain, for the later one, they mean the revolution against the absolutist status quo. Similarly, his resignation as head of the Army of the Andes says \"\"...I had the first news of the general movement at both Americas and that their original purpose was to emancipate themselves from the Peninsular Tyranic Government.\" [note: with capital letters in the original] \"From that moment on, I decided to employ my short services to either point that stand insurgent: I preferred to return to my native country where I had been employed at anything within my reach, my nation has rewarded my short services giving me plenty of honours that I do not deserve.\" Here, San Martín does not talk about emancipation from Spain itself, but from its government, capitaling \"tyranic\". He also mentions that, even if preferred returning to his native country, he could have been destined to either South or Central America. An 1848 letter to the president of Perú Ramón Castilla says \"In a meeting of Americans in Cádiz, knowing about the first steps taken in Caracas, Buenos Aires, etc; we decided to return each one to our native countries, to offer them our services in the struggle that we calculated would be waged soon\". This quote is more strange, as it does not mention an ongoing conflict, but a conflict that would be waged soon (but not by then). Such a conflict may be a possible absolutist restauration, which took place when Ferdinand VII returned to the throne, but could also happen if the Regency Council prevailed over the Junta of Seville.\n\nThe similarity between San Martín's military campaign and the British Maitland Plan may suggest that San Martín was actually a British agent or spy. This perspective was first proposed by Ricardo Piccirilli in 1957, and supported by Carlos Steffens Soler or J.C.J.Metford. This perspective, however, fails to give an explanation for the hostility between San Martín and the anglophil Bernardino Rivadavia, or his support to Juan Manuel de Rosas during his conflicts with Britain. Patricia Pasquali pointed similar causes but arriving to a different conclusion: San Martín may have moved to South America in order to get higher military promotions, which would be more difficult to get at the Peninsular War. However, the author does not include the promotions (including promotions to national government) that were actually rejected by San Martín in her essay.\n"}
{"id": "3089635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3089635", "title": "Mina Crandon", "text": "Mina Crandon\n\nMina \"Margery\" Crandon (1888–November 1, 1941) was a well known psychical medium who claimed that she channeled her dead brother, Walter Stinson. Investigators who studied Crandon concluded that she had no genuine paranormal ability, and others detected in her outright deception.\n\nShe was the wife of a wealthy Boston surgeon and socialite, Dr. Le Roi Goddard Crandon.\n\nCrandon grew up on a farm in Princeton, Ontario, Canada, but moved to Boston as a young woman. While working as a secretary of a local church in Boston, she met and married Earl Rand, a grocer. They had one son. She later met Dr. Crandon when she entered a Dorchester, Massachusetts, hospital for an unspecified operation, possibly appendicitis. Dr. Crandon was her surgeon. She and Dr. Crandon crossed paths again later that year when Dr. Crandon served as a lieutenant commander and head of surgical staff in a New England Naval hospital during the First World War and she served as a civilian volunteer ambulance driver who transported casualties to the hospital. Mina sued for divorce from Earl P. Rand in January 1918 and became Dr. Crandon's 3rd wife a few months later. She moved to Dr. Crandon's house at 10 Lime Street, with her son. Dr. Crandon later adopted her son and changed his name to John Crandon.\n\nCrandon began experimenting with séances as a hobby, possibly to distract her older husband from a morbid obsession with mortality. On July 23, 1924, her name was submitted as a candidate for a prize offered by \"Scientific American\" magazine to any medium who could demonstrate telekinetic ability under scientific controls. With a doctor as husband, Crandon was well prepared for the challenge, and her charm and lack of interest in personal monetary reward made her seem honest to the public eye. Her séance circles included members of the middle class as well as luminary members of the Boston upper class and Ivy League elite. Famous supporters such as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle gave her significant credibility. She became so popular that her prayers were read by the US Army. The Scientific American prize committee consisted of William McDougall, professor of psychology at Harvard; Harry Houdini, the famous professional magician and escape artist; Walter Franklin Prince, American psychical researcher; Dr. Daniel Frost Comstock, who introduced technicolor to film; and Hereward Carrington, amateur magician, psychical researcher, author, and manager for the Italian medium Eusapia Palladino.\n\nMr. J. Malcolm Bird, an employee of \"Scientific American\" (not on the Prize Committee) notified Houdini of the possibility that \"Margery\" might win the prize. Houdini and other prize committee members attended two séances in Boston at Margery (and her husband's) home on July 23 and 24, 1924, and claimed to have observed Crandon's tricks. According to Houdini, Crandon had escaped control and stretched her foot to ring a bell in the séance room. Houdini told the committee about the fraud and gave a practical demonstration; however, Bird in an article for \"Scientific American\" praised Margery's abilities and newspapers supported Bird's declarations.\n\nThey visited again on August 23, 1924, for a few days. On the August visit, Houdini exposed the mechanics used during the séance, along with other people involved in creating the noises during the séance. Houdini asked her to wear an apparatus which prevented her from using her legs. The apparatus was a large cabinet-box leaving only her head and hands sticking out. On August 25 with Dr. Comstock and Houdini in a séance Crandon was placed in the cabinet. A box with a bell was placed on a table in front of the cabinet. During the séance the bell made a noise but when the lights were turned on it was revealed the lid of the cabinet-box had been forced open. Houdini claimed Crandon had cheated and had rung the bell herself. \n\nThere was much disagreement among the committee, and in the end, only Carrington voted in favor of Crandon. However, committee Secretary Malcolm Bird leaked to the press that the committee was leaning toward a positive vote. Incensed, committee member Harry Houdini returned from abroad to submit his dissenting vote. His efforts to discredit Crandon became a part of his stage act, and he reproduced her effects for audiences as well as published a pamphlet that described how she achieved some of her more basic effects.\n\nOn August 27, the investigator Dr. Comstock asked her to wear a similar device called, a \"median control\". The device consisted of a box into which Crandon and an investigator would put their feet. Connecting to the box was a board which was locked on top of the knees, preventing withdrawal of the feet. Crandon's hands were held by the investigator and the box with the bell was placed outside the control-box. Crandon agreed to be tested and, because of the strict control, no paranormal phenomena in the séance were observed. Margery did not win the prize money.\n\nDuring a séance with the cabinet-box, Crandon requested that the sides be closed so she could move her hands freely inside the cabinet. A collapsible ruler was later found in the cabinet, Houdini suggested that Crandon had used the ruler with her neck to ring the bell. In response, Crandon accused Houdini and his assistant Jim Collins of placing the ruler inside the cabinet to discredit her. Houdini and Collins were both questioned about the incident and denied placing the ruler in the cabinet.\n\nIn 1959, author William Lindsay Gresham accused Collins of placing the ruler and quoted him as saying \"I chucked it in the box meself. The Boss told me to do it. He wanted to fix her good\". However, doubts have been raised about this statement. Magic historian Milbourne Christopher dismissed the alleged statement as \"sheer fiction\". According to Christopher the source of the quotation was a rival magician to Houdini, Fred Keating, and is unreliable. In 2003, Massimo Polidoro noted that \"the incident remains doubtful to this day.\"\n\nBy 1925 due to the investigation of Crandon the American Society for Psychical Research (ASPR) had been taken over by a spiritualist faction. The ASPR championed Crandon and suppressed any reports unfavorable to her. In response, Walter Franklin Prince who was the Society's research officer resigned to establish the Boston Society for Psychical Research. Prince was accused by supporters of Crandon of being biased against paranormal phenomena.\n\nCrandon's husband was known for displaying nude photographs of her in her mediumship sessions. Mina Crandon was described as a very beautiful lady whom men found \"too attractive for her own good.\" It was suggested that the psychical investigator J. Malcolm Bird actively conspired with the Crandons in stage-managing the séances in an attempt to have a sexual relationship with Mina. Reports, however, suggest that Mina found Bird repulsive. Instead she had amorous feelings for the psychical researcher Hereward Carrington, with whom she had an affair. Carrington also borrowed money he was unable to repay from Crandon. Critics have written that it is easy to imagine these factors could have biased his judgement regarding her mediumship.\nCrandon performed many of her séances in the nude, and was reported to throw herself onto the laps of her male sitters. She was also described as an alcoholic. During séances, Eric Dingwall told Crandon to take off her clothes and sit in the nude. Crandon would also sometimes sprinkle luminous powder on her breasts and because of such activities William McDougall and other psychical researchers criticized Dingwall for having improper relations with Crandon.\n\nHistorian Ruth Brandon has noted that as Bird, Carrington and Dingwall were all personally involved with Crandon, they were biased and unreliable witnesses. Magician Fred Keating who had observed Crandon at her house suggested Carrington pretended some of her phenomena baffled him in an attempt to get financial backing for his own psychical laboratory.\n\nA review by the father of modern parapsychology, Dr. Joseph Banks Rhine, lent further insight into Crandon's performances. Dr. Rhine was able to observe some of her trickery in the dark when she used luminous objects. Rhine claimed to have observed Crandon committing fraud in a séance in 1926. According to Rhine, during the séance she was free from control and kicked a megaphone to give the impression it was levitating.\n\nRhine's report documenting the fraud was refused by the ASPR, so he published it in the \"Journal of Abnormal Social Psychology\". In response, defenders of Crandon attacked Rhine. Arthur Conan Doyle published an article in a Boston newspaper claiming \"J. B. Rhine is an Ass.\"\n\nCrandon continued to conduct séances and the English teacher, Grant Code, became a frequent visitor to the Crandon home and was enthralled by Crandon's later performances. Ultimately, he too was able to duplicate them. Code's exchange of letters with psychic investigator Walter Franklin Prince regarding Margery is currently held in the archives of the ASPR.\n\nAn elaborate investigation was held by a committee of Harvard scholars. Finally, the Harvard committee also pronounced Crandon as fraudulent. On 30 June 1925, one of the Harvard investigators saw Crandon draw three objects from her lap. One object was shaped like a glove or flat hand, one resembled a baby's hand, and the third was described but not identified.\n\nThe American Society for Psychical Research wanted further investigation. In 1926, a committee of three professors (Knight Dunlap, Henry C. McComas and Robert Williams Wood) was sent to Boston. Crandon had a luminous star attached to her forehead, identifying the location of her face in the dark. After a few minutes, a narrow dark rod appeared over a luminous checkerboard which had been placed on the table opposite Crandon. It moved from side to side and picked up an object. As it passed in front of Wood he lightly touched it with the tip of his finger and followed it back to a point very near Crandon's mouth. Wood thought it probable she was holding the rod by her teeth. He took hold of the tip and very quietly pinched it. It felt like a knitting needle covered with one or two layers of soft leather. Though the committee had been warned that touching the ectoplasm could result in the illness or death of the medium, neither Crandon nor the \"ectoplasm\" rod showed any reaction to Wood's actions. At the end of the sitting, Wood dictated his actions to the stenographer. Upon hearing this, Crandon gave a shriek and fainted. She was carried out of the room and the committee was asked to depart. Wood was never invited again.\n\nThe committee that consisted of Dunlap, McComas and Wood considered the phenomena to be fraudulent. They concluded that the rod was an animal intestine that had been \"stuffed with cotton and stiffened with wire\". In 1939, Crandon's husband died and Crandon, an alcoholic, went into a deep depression. At one of her last séances she attempted to jump off the roof of the house.\n\nCrandon's \"teleplasmic hand\" that allegedly appeared in photographs was said to resemble animal tissue and trachea, cut and sewn together. Allegations were made by some conjuring historians of Houdini and mediumship that her surgeon husband had altered her genitalia and this was where she concealed her teleplasmic hand. The \"hand\" did not move after its appearance on the table before her. It lay still as if it were dead and then supposedly vanished. She refused to wear tights, or to be internally searched, but no proof that Crandon had been surgically altered has ever been published. The \"hand\" appeared only when Crandon sat next to her husband, who held or controlled her right hand.\n\nThere are photos of the alleged teleplasmic hand and its position. It appeared to be coming from Crandon's groin. Various members of the audience in the séances touched the hand and described it as dead. It was also suggested that Crandon's husband may have sneaked it into the séance room. The \"teleplasmic hand\" was later exposed as a trick when biologists examined the hand and found it to be made of a piece of carved animal liver.\n\nCrandon used a trick in an attempt to fool psychical researchers that the \"spirit\" voices in her séances did not come from her own mouth. According to magician John Booth this was performed by Crandon filling her mouth with water before the séance had started and when the lights were turned off, swallowing the water. Before the end of the séance she would refill her mouth with water from a corked test tube. Crandon's reputation was also damaged when a fingerprint left on wax ostensibly by her channeled spirit, her deceased brother, Walter, was discovered to belong to her dentist Frederick Caldwell by a member of the Boston Society for Psychical Research. Her dentist divulged that he had taught her how to make these prints.\n\nIn 1934, Walter Franklin Prince described the Crandon case as \"the most ingenious, persistent, and fantastic complex of fraud in the history of psychic research.\" Crandon continued to perform until her early death in 1941, at about the age of 53.\n\nItalian skeptic investigator Massimo Polidoro has written an entire history of Crandon's mediumship and documented her tricks.\n\nIn 1933, Walter Franklin Prince wrote an article for the \"Scientific American\" that claimed J. Malcolm Bird intended to publish a confession in the ASPR in 1930 admitting that an act of fraud had taken place to trick Houdini in 1924. According to Prince the report \"has not been printed and very few of the believers in Europe or America know of its existence.\" Part of Bird's (rejected) report to the ASPR read:\n\nHoudini had suspected Bird as an accomplice for Crandon in the \"Scientific American\" investigation in 1924. Bird resigned from the investigation after Houdini announced on a radio program: \"I publicly denounce here Malcolm Bird as being an accomplice of Margery!\".\n\nJoseph Banks Rhine, who caught Crandon free from control and kicking a megaphone during a séance, wondered why Bird, with three years of experience, did not expose any of her tricks. Rhine suspected that Bird was a confederate of the medium. The psychical researcher William Henry Salter speculated that Crandon's husband may have been an accomplice and that blackmail may have been involved, he also noted that Hereward Carrington admitted to having a several months long affair with Crandon and, although she found Malcolm Bird \"disgusting looking\", he also claimed to have had a romance with her.\n\nRuth Brandon also suspected Crandon's husband and wrote that he was \"colluding with his wife in her frauds.\"\n\nBooks\n\n\nPapers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12786916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12786916", "title": "Minister of the Naval Service (Canada)", "text": "Minister of the Naval Service (Canada)\n\nThe Minister of the Naval Service (Canada) was the federal government minister charged with oversight of the Royal Canadian Navy.\n\nIn 1923 the National Defence Act merged the position of Minister of Militia and Defence with the Minister of the Naval Service.\n\nThe position was re-established during World War II as the Minister of National Defence for Naval Services (Canada).\n\n\nBallantyne was Commanding Officer of the 1st Battalion of Grenadier Guards from 1916 to 1917.\n"}
{"id": "57874191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57874191", "title": "Mutafukaz", "text": "Mutafukaz\n\nIn Dark Meat City (DMC), a young woman, carrying an infant, is chased by black suited men lead by Bruce Macchabe. The woman and her infant are saved by a dog who spouts tentacles with Bruce referring to it as a \"traitor\". The woman leaves the infant in a dumpster where it is found by the dog and the woman is captured and killed by Bruce.\n\nYears later, the infant, now a grown young adult named Angelino, lives in a run down apartment with his flaming skull headed friend Vinz and their numerous cockroaches who act as their \"pets\". While making a delivery, Angelino spots Luna, a beautiful young woman, and is suddenly struck by a truck, resulting in him losing his job. The next day while hanging out with their cat-like friend Willy, Angelino begins experiencing headaches and visions with certain people displaying misshapen tentacle shadows. The trio realize they are being chased by men in black and manage to defeat and outrun them.\n\nLater, a SWAT team storms Angelino's and Vinz's apartment, which triggers Angelino to unleash a hidden power and defeat them. The cockroaches also leave to search for Angelino while a Luchador tells his fellow comrades about a vision he had about a potential evil they must combat. Willy gives Angelino and Vinz a house to stay in though they are later found by the men in black, who engage the local gangs in a gun fight. Angelino and Vinz escape by stealing an ice cream truck, while one of the men in black, Agent Crocodile, vows revenge.\n\nAngelino and Vinz make it to the restaurant they frequent by and run into Luna who appears to sympathize with them. However, it is revealed that she is involved with the men in black and they are captured. Angelino meets Luna's father, Mr. K, who reveals that he is part of an extraterrestrial race called the Macho who have already invaded earth and have many members in authoritative roles. Their plan is to inflict global warming in an attempt to terraform the planet as they cannot withstand cold temperatures. Angelino is the result of a human woman and a Macho father whose eloping was considered treasonous. Mr. K tries to convince Angelino to accept his Macho side by killing Vinz but Luna starts to sympathize with Angelino after having a vision of his mother's sacrifice.\n\nThe cockroaches, who have managed to find Angelino, are followed by the Luchadores who have begun believing the visions. Angelino fights his urge to kill Vinz and they escape their confines. However, Angelino falls unconscious, but he and Vinz are rescued by the Luchadores who have also freed a scientist named Professor Fagor. They make it to a secluded shack in the desert where the Luchadores and Fagor have begun building a rocket while Angelino and Vinz escape.\n\nCrocodile arrives at Willy's house and holds him hostage. Feeling bad for their friend, Angelino and Vinz decide to go and help him, unaware of the trap set for them. Angelino rescues Willy while a helicopter crushes Crocodile. The Luchadores and Fagor launch the rocket, triggering it to snow across the country, freezing and killing all of the hidden Macho. Angelino, being half Macho, begins freezing, but is rescued by Luna's kiss. Bruce arrives to kill Angelino but the local gangs gun down Bruce. As Angelino comes to, he realizes that Luna has disappeared.\n\nTwo months later, everything goes back to \"normal\" with people forgetting about the incident. Willy gets a record contract, though Angelino believes it will not last long, Vinz finally gets a job at the restaurant that they frequent and Angelino has been writing letters to Luna, despite not knowing where she lives, though it is shown that she is still living somewhere in DMC. Mr. K is shown to have survived and has set up base on the moon where he begins sending UFOs to potentially invade earth.\n\n\n\"Mutafukaz\" had its world premiere on June 13, 2017 at the Annecy International Animation Film Festival. The film was released in France on May 23, 2018. Parco released the film in Japan on October 12, 2018. GKIDS released the English dub of the film in a limited theatrical run in North America and Canada on October 11 and October 16, 2018.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a score of 47% based on 15 reviews with an average rating of 5.2/10.\n"}
{"id": "393593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393593", "title": "Paul Kagame", "text": "Paul Kagame\n\nPaul Kagame (; born 23 October 1957) is a Rwandan politician and former military leader. He is currently the President of Rwanda, having taken office in 2000 when his predecessor, Pasteur Bizimungu, resigned. Kagame previously commanded the rebel force that ended the 1994 Rwandan genocide. He was considered Rwanda's \"de facto\" leader when he served as Vice President and Minister of Defence from 1994 to 2000. He was re-elected in August 2017 with an official result of nearly 99% in an election criticized for numerous irregularities. He has been described as the \"most impressive\" and \"among the most repressive\" African leaders. \n\nKagame was born to a Tutsi family in southern Rwanda. When he was two years old, the Rwandan Revolution ended centuries of Tutsi political dominance; his family fled to Uganda, where he spent the rest of his childhood. In the 1980s, Kagame fought in Yoweri Museveni's rebel army, becoming a senior Ugandan army officer after Museveni's military victories carried him to the Ugandan presidency. Kagame joined the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), which invaded Rwanda in 1990. RPF leader Fred Rwigyema died early in the war and Kagame took control. By 1993, the RPF controlled significant territory in Rwanda and a ceasefire was negotiated. The assassination of Rwandan President Juvénal Habyarimana set off the genocide, in which Hutu extremists killed an estimated 500,000 to 1,000,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutu. Kagame resumed the civil war, and ended the genocide with a military victory.\n\nDuring his vice presidency, Kagame controlled the national army and maintained law and order, while other officials began rebuilding the country. Many RPF soldiers carried out retribution killings. Kagame said he did not support these killings but failed to stop them. A small number of these soldiers were later put on trial. Hutu refugee camps formed in Zaire and other countries. These camps were given food and medical aid by several western governments and aid agencies. The RPF attacked the camps in 1996, forcing many refugees to return home, but insurgents continued to attack Rwanda. The attack on the refugee camps killed an estimated 200,000 people. As part of the invasion, Kagame sponsored two controversial rebel wars in Zaire. The Rwandan- and Ugandan-backed rebels won the first war (1996–97), installing Laurent-Désiré Kabila as president in place of dictator Mobutu and renaming the country as the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The second war was launched in 1998 against Kabila, and later his son Joseph, following the DRC government's expulsion of Rwandan and Ugandan military forces from the country. The war escalated into a conflict that lasted until a 2003 peace deal and ceasefire.\n\nAs president, Kagame has prioritized national development, launching a programme to develop Rwanda as a middle income country by 2020 (Vision 2020). As of 2013, the country is developing strongly on key indicators, including health care and education; annual growth between 2004 and 2010 averaged per year. Kagame has had mostly good relations with the East African Community and the United States; his relations with France were poor until 2009. Relations with the DRC remain tense despite the 2003 ceasefire; human rights groups and a leaked United Nations report allege Rwandan support for two insurgencies in the country, a charge Kagame denies. Several countries suspended aid payments in 2012 following these allegations. Kagame is popular in Rwanda and with some foreign observers; human rights groups accuse him of political repression. He won an election in 2003, under a new constitution adopted that year, and was elected for a second term in 2010. Kagame was elected again in 2017, and due to yet another change in the constitution, he could potentially be President until 2034. His role in the assassination of exiled political opponents has been controversial. In 2018, Kagame began a one-year term as Chairperson of the African Union.\n\nKagame was born on 23 October 1957, the youngest of six children, in Tambwe, Ruanda-Urundi, a village located in what is now the Southern Province of Rwanda. His father, Deogratias, was a member of the Tutsi ethnic group, from which the royal family had been derived since the eighteenth century or earlier. Deogratias had family ties to King Mutara III, but he pursued an independent business career rather than maintain a close connection to the royal court. Kagame's mother, Asteria Rutagambwa, descended from the family of the last Rwandan queen, Rosalie Gicanda. At the time of Kagame's birth, Rwanda was a United Nations Trust Territory; long-time colonial power Belgium still ruled the territory, but with a mandate to oversee independence. Rwandans were made up of three distinct groups: the minority Tutsi were the traditional ruling class, and the Belgians had long promoted their supremacy, while the majority Hutu were agriculturalists. The third group, the Twa, were a forest-dwelling pygmy people descended from Rwanda's earliest inhabitants, who formed less than of the population.\n\nTension between Tutsi and Hutu had been escalating during the 1950s, and culminated in the 1959 Rwandan Revolution. Hutu activists began killing Tutsi, forcing more than 100,000 to seek refuge in neighboring countries. Kagame's family abandoned their home and lived for two years in the far northeast of Rwanda and eventually crossing the border into Uganda. They moved gradually north, and settled in the Nshungerezi refugee camp in the Toro sub-region in 1962. It was around this time that, as young boys, Kagame and his future comrade, Fred Rwigyema, first met one another.\n\nKagame began his primary education in a school near the refugee camp, where he and other Rwandan refugees learned English and began to integrate into Ugandan culture. At the age of nine he moved to the respected Rwengoro Primary School, around 16 kilometres (10 mi) away, graduating with the best grades in the district. He subsequently attended Ntare School, one of the best schools in Uganda. It is also the alma mater of future Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni. The death of Kagame's father in the early 1970s, and the departure of Rwigyema to an unknown location, led to a decline in his academic performance and an increased tendency to fight those who belittled the Rwandan population. He was eventually suspended from Ntare and completed his studies without distinction at Old Kampala Secondary School.\n\nAfter finishing his schooling Kagame made two visits to Rwanda, in 1977 and 1978. He was initially hosted by family members of his former classmates, but upon arrival in Kigali he made contact with members of his own family. He kept a low profile on these visits, believing that his status as a well-connected Tutsi exile could lead to arrest. On his second visit he entered the country through Zaire rather than Uganda to avoid suspicion. Kagame used his time in Rwanda to explore the country, familiarise himself with the political and social situation, and make connections that would prove useful to him in his later activities.\n\nIn 1978, Fred Rwigyema returned to western Uganda and reunited with Kagame. During his absence, Rwigyema had joined the rebel army of Yoweri Museveni. Based in Tanzania, it aimed to overthrow the Ugandan government of Idi Amin. Rwigyema returned to Tanzania and fought in the 1979 war during which Museveni's army, allied with the Tanzanian army and other Ugandan exiles, defeated Amin. After Amin's defeat, inspired by Rwigyema, Kagame and other Rwandan refugees pledged allegiance to Museveni, a cabinet member in the transition government. Kagame trained under United States Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth in Kansas.\n\nFormer incumbent Milton Obote won the 1980 Ugandan general election. Museveni disputed the result, and he and his followers withdrew from the new government in protest. In 1981, Museveni formed the rebel National Resistance Army (NRA); Kagame and Rwigyema joined as founding soldiers, along with thirty-eight Ugandans. The army's goal was to overthrow Obote's government, in what became known as the Ugandan Bush War.\n\nKagame and Rwigyema joined the NRA primarily to ease conditions for Rwandan refugees persecuted by Obote. They also had a long-term goal of returning with other Tutsi refugees to Rwanda; military experience would enable them to fight the Hutu-dominated Rwandan army. In the NRA, Kagame specialized in intelligence-gathering, and he rose to a position close to Museveni's. The NRA, based in the Luwero Triangle, fought the Ugandan army for the next five years, even after Obote was deposed in a 1985 coup d'état and the start of peace talks.\n\nIn 1986, the NRA captured Kampala with a force of 14,000 soldiers, including 500 Rwandans, and formed a new government. After Museveni's inauguration as president he appointed Kagame and Rwigyema as senior officers in the new Ugandan army; Kagame was the head of military intelligence. In addition to their army duties, Kagame and Rwigyema began building a covert network of Rwandan Tutsi refugees within the army's ranks, intended as the nucleus for an attack on Rwanda. In 1989 Rwanda's President Habyarimana and many Ugandans in the army began to criticise Museveni over his appointment of Rwandan refugees to senior positions, and he demoted Kagame and Rwigyema.\n\nKagame and Rwigyema remained \"de facto\" senior officers, but the change caused them to accelerate their plans to invade Rwanda. They joined an organisation called the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), a refugee association which had been operating under various names since 1979. Rwigyema became the RPF leader shortly after joining and, while still working for the Ugandan army, he and Kagame completed their invasion plans.\n\nIn October 1990, Rwigyema led a force of over 4,000 RPF rebels into Rwanda at the Kagitumba border post, advancing south to the town of Gabiro. Kagame was not present at the initial raids, as he was in the United States, attending the Command and General Staff College in Fort Leavenworth. Rwigyema was killed on the third day of the attack, throwing the RPF into confusion. France and Zaire deployed forces in support of the Rwandan army, and by the end of October, the RPF had been pushed back into the far north east corner of the country.\n\nKagame returned to Africa and took command of the RPF forces, which had been reduced to fewer than 2,000 troops. Kagame and his soldiers moved west, through Uganda, to the Virunga Mountains, a rugged high-altitude area where the terrain worked in their favor. From there he re-armed and reorganized the army, and carried out fundraising and recruitment from the Tutsi diaspora. Kagame restarted combat in January 1991, with an attack on the northern town of Ruhengeri. Benefiting from the element of surprise, the RPF captured the town and held it for a day before retreating back into the forests.\n\nFor the next year, the RPF waged a classic hit-and-run guerrilla war, capturing some border areas but not making significant gains against the Rwandan army. Following the June 1992 formation of a multi-party coalition government in Kigali, Kagame announced a ceasefire and initiated negotiations with the Rwandan government in Arusha, Tanzania. In early 1993 groups of extremist Hutu formed and began campaigns of large-scale violence against the Tutsi. Kagame responded by suspending peace talks temporarily and launching a major attack, gaining a large swathe of land across the north of the country.\n\nPeace negotiations resumed in Arusha, and the resulting set of agreements, known as the Arusha Accords, were signed in August 1993. The RPF were given positions in a broad-based transitional government (BBTG) and in the national army. The United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR), a peacekeeping force, arrived and the RPF were given a base in the national parliament building in Kigali to use during the establishment of the BBTG.\n\nOn 6 April 1994, Rwandan President Habyarimana's plane was shot down near Kigali Airport, killing both Habyarimana and the President of Burundi, Cyprien Ntaryamira, as well as their entourage and three French crew members. The attackers remain unknown. Historian Gérard Prunier, in a book written shortly after the incident, concluded that it was most likely a coup d'état carried out by extreme Hutu members of Habyarimana's government, and was a planned part of the genocide. This theory was disputed in 2006 by French judge Jean-Louis Bruguière, and in 2008 by Spanish judge Fernando Andreu. Both alleged that Kagame and the RPF were responsible.\n\nFollowing Habyarimana's death, a military committee led by Colonel Théoneste Bagosora took immediate control of the country. Under the committee's direction, the Hutu militia Interahamwe and the Presidential Guard began to kill Hutu and Tutsi opposition politicians and other prominent Tutsi figures; within 24 hours they had killed all moderate leaders, including Prime Minister Agathe Uwilingiyimana. The killers then began targeting the entire Tutsi population, as well as moderate Hutu, beginning the Rwandan genocide. Over the course of approximately 100 days, between 500,000 and 1 million Tutsi and politically moderate Hutu were killed in well-planned attacks.\n\nOn 7 April, Kagame warned the committee and UNAMIR that he would resume the civil war if the killing did not stop. The next day, the Rwandan government forces attacked the national parliament building from several directions, but the RPF troops stationed there successfully fought back; Kagame began an attack from the north on three fronts, seeking to link up quickly with the troops isolated in Kigali. An interim government was set up but Kagame refused to talk to it, believing that it was just a cover for Bagosora's rule. Over the next few days, the RPF advanced steadily south, capturing Gabiro and large areas of countryside to the north and east of Kigali. They avoided attacking Kigali or Byumba at this stage, but conducted manoeuvres designed to encircle the cities and cut off supply routes. The RPF allowed Tutsi refugees from Uganda to settle behind the front line in the RPF-controlled areas.\n\nThroughout April there were numerous attempts by UNAMIR to establish a ceasefire, but Kagame insisted each time that the RPF would not stop fighting unless the killings stopped. In late April, the RPF secured the whole of the Tanzanian border area and began to move west from Kibungo, to the south of Kigali. They encountered little resistance, except around Kigali and Ruhengeri. By 16 May, they had cut the road between Kigali and Gitarama, the temporary home of the interim government, and by 13 June, they had taken Gitarama, following an unsuccessful attempt by the Rwandan government forces to reopen the road. The interim government was forced to relocate to Gisenyi in the far north west. As well as fighting the war, Kagame was recruiting heavily to expand the army. The new recruits included Tutsi survivors of the genocide and refugees from Burundi, but were less well trained and disciplined than the earlier recruits.\n\nHaving completed the encirclement of Kigali, Kagame spent the latter half of June fighting to take the city. The government forces had superior manpower and weapons, but the RPF steadily gained territory, as well as conducting raids to rescue civilians from behind enemy lines. According to Roméo Dallaire, the force commander of UNAMIR, this success was due to Kagame being a \"master of psychological warfare\"; he exploited the fact that the government forces were concentrating on the genocide rather than the fight for Kigali, and capitalised on the government's loss of morale as it lost territory. The RPF finally defeated the Rwandan government forces in Kigali on 4 July, and on 18 July took Gisenyi and the rest of the north west, forcing the interim government into Zaire and ending the genocide. At the end of July 1994, Kagame's forces held the whole of Rwanda except for a zone in the south west, which had been occupied by a French-led United Nations force as part of \"Opération Turquoise\".\n\nOn 10 June 1989 in Uganda, Kagame married Jeannette Nyiramongi, a Tutsi exile living in Nairobi, Kenya. Kagame had asked his relatives to suggest a suitable marriage and they recommended Nyiramongi. Kagame travelled to Nairobi and introduced himself, persuading her to visit him in Uganda. Nyiramongi was familiar with the RPF, and its goal of returning refugees to Rwanda. She held Kagame in high regard. The couple have four children. Their first child, a son they named Ivan Cyomoro Kagame, was born in 1990. Since then, a daughter, Ange Kagame, and sons Ian and Brian have been born.\n\nThe post-genocide Rwandan government took office in Kigali in July 1994. It was based loosely on the Arusha Accords, but Habyarimana's party, MRND was outlawed. The positions it had been assigned were taken over by the RPF. The military wing of the RPF was renamed as the Rwandan Patriotic Army (RPA), and became the national army. Paul Kagame assumed the dual roles of Vice President of Rwanda and Minister of Defence while Pasteur Bizimungu, a Hutu who had been a civil servant under Habyarimana before fleeing to join the RPF, was appointed president. Bizimungu and his cabinet had some control over domestic affairs, but Kagame remained commander-in-chief of the army and was the \"de facto\" ruler of the country.\n\nThe infrastructure and economy of the country had suffered greatly during the genocide. Many buildings were uninhabitable, and the former regime had carried with them all currency and moveable assets when they fled the country. Human resources were also severely depleted, with over of the population having been killed or fled. Many of the remainder were traumatised: most had lost relatives, witnessed killings or participated in the genocide. The army, controlled by Kagame, maintained law and order while the government began the work of rebuilding the country's structures.\n\nNon-governmental organisations began to move back into the country, but the international community did not provide significant assistance to the new regime, and most international aid was routed to the refugee camps which had formed in Zaire following the exodus of Hutu from Rwanda. Kagame strove to portray the government as inclusive and not Tutsi-dominated. He directed removal of ethnicity from citizens' national identity cards, and the government began a policy of downplaying the distinctions between Hutu, Tutsi, and Twa.\n\nDuring the genocide and in the months following the RPF victory, RPF soldiers killed many people they accused of participating in or supporting the genocide. Many of these soldiers were recent Tutsi recruits from within Rwanda who had lost family or friends and sought revenge. The scale, scope, and source of ultimate responsibility of these killings is disputed. Human Rights Watch, as well as scholars such as Prunier, allege that the death toll might be as high as 100,000, and that Kagame and the RPF elite either tolerated or organised the killings. In an interview with journalist Stephen Kinzer, Kagame acknowledged that killings had occurred but stated that they were carried out by rogue soldiers and had been impossible to control. The RPF killings gained international attention with the 1995 Kibeho massacre, in which soldiers opened fire on a camp for internally displaced persons in Butare Province. Australian soldiers serving as part of UNAMIR estimated at least 4,000 people were killed, while the Rwandan government claimed that the death toll was 338.\n\nShortly after taking power, the Rwandan government began prosecuting crimes committed during the genocide. The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, operating under a United Nations mandate, was set up in Arusha to judge the most senior leaders responsible for the genocide. In addition, the Rwandan government determined to prosecute all suspected perpetrators, including the many ordinary citizens who had taken part in the killings, in order to end the \"culture of impunity\" that it blamed for the genocide. Between 1994 and 2000, 120,000 suspects were arrested. The prisons were overcrowded and the courts could not process all the cases. By 2006 only 10,000 of those arrested had been tried. The government introduced \"Gacaca\", a village court system based on traditional Rwandan justice. The Gacaca process allowed for faster processing of cases, but lacked many safeguards and principles of international criminal law.\n\nThe unity government suffered a partial collapse in 1995. The continuing violence, along with appointing of local government officials who were almost exclusively RPF Tutsi, caused serious disagreement between Kagame and senior Hutu government members, including prime minister Faustin Twagiramungu and interior minister Seth Sendashonga. Twagiramungu resigned in August, and Kagame fired Sendashonga and three others the next day. Pasteur Bizimungu remained president but the makeup of the new government was predominantly RPF Tutsi loyal to Kagame. Twagiramungu and Sendashonga moved abroad to form a new opposition party shortly after leaving the government.\n\nFollowing the RPF victory, approximately two million Hutu fled to refugee camps in neighboring countries, particularly Zaire, fearing RPF reprisals for the Rwandan genocide. The camps were set up by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), but were effectively controlled by the army and government of the former Hutu regime, including many leaders of the genocide. This regime was determined to return to power in Rwanda and began rearming, killing Tutsi residing in Zaire, and launching cross-border incursions in conjunction with the \"Interahamwe\" paramilitary group. By late 1996, the Hutu militants represented a serious threat to the new Rwandan regime, and Kagame launched a counteroffensive.\n\nKagame first provided troops and military training to aid a rebellion against Zaire by the Banyamulenge, a Tutsi group living near Bukavu in the Zairian South Kivu province. With Rwandan army support, the Banyamulenge defeated local security forces and began attacking the Hutu refugee camps in the area. At the same time, Kagame's forces joined with Zairian Tutsi around Goma to attack two of the camps there. Most refugees from the attacked camps moved to the large Mugunga camp. In November 1996 the Rwandan army attacked Mugunga, causing an estimated 800,000 refugees to flee. Many returned to Rwanda despite the presence of the RPF; others ventured further west into Zaire.\n\nDespite the disbanding of the camps, the defeated forces of the former regime continued a cross-border insurgency campaign into Rwanda from North Kivu. The insurgents maintained a presence in Rwanda's north western provinces and were supported by the predominantly Hutu population, many of whom had lived in the refugee camps before they were attacked. In addition to supporting the wars in the Congo, Kagame began a propaganda campaign to bring the Hutu to his side. He integrated former soldiers of the deposed genocidal regime's military into the RPF-dominated national army and appointed senior Hutu to key local government positions in the areas hit by insurgency. These tactics were eventually successful; by 1999, the population in the north west had stopped supporting the insurgency and the insurgents were mostly defeated.\n\nAlthough his primary reason for military action in Zaire was the dismantling of the refugee camps, Kagame also began planning a war to remove long-time dictator President Mobutu Sese Seko from power. Mobutu had supported the \"genocidaires\" based in the camps, and was also accused of allowing attacks on Tutsi people within Zaire. Together with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, Kagame supported the newly created Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo (ADFL), an alliance of four rebel groups headed by Laurent-Désiré Kabila, which began waging the First Congo War. The ADFL, helped by Rwandan and Ugandan troops, took control of North and South Kivu provinces in November 1996 and then advanced west, gaining territory from the poorly organised and demotivated Zairian army with little fighting. By May 1997, they controlled almost the whole of Zaire except for the capital Kinshasa; Mobutu fled and the ADFL took the capital without fighting. The country was renamed as the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Kabila became the new president. The Rwandan Defence Forces and the ADFL were accused of carrying out mass atrocities during the First Congo War, with as many as 222,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees declared missing.\n\nKagame and the Rwandan government retained strong influence over Kabila following his inauguration, and the RPA maintained a heavy presence in Kinshasa. Congolese in the capital resented this, as did many in the eastern Kivu provinces, where ethnic clashes increased sharply. In July 1998, Kabila fired his Rwandan chief-of-staff, James Kabarebe, and ordered all RPA troops to leave the country. Kagame accused Kabila of supporting the ongoing insurgency against Rwanda from North Kivu, the same accusation he had made about Mobutu. He responded to the expulsion of his soldiers by backing a new rebel group, the Rally for Congolese Democracy (RCD), and launching the Second Congo War. The first action of the war was a blitzkrieg by the RCD and RPA, led by Kabarebe. These forces made quick gains, advancing in twelve days from the Kivu provinces west to within of Kinshasa. The capital was saved by the intervention of Angola, Namibia and Zimbabwe on Kabila's side. Following the failure of the blitzkrieg, the conflict developed into a long-term conventional war, which lasted until 2003 and caused millions of deaths and massive damage. According to a report by the International Rescue Committee (IRC), this conflict led to the loss of between 3 million and 7.6 million lives, many through starvation and disease accompanying the social disruption of the war.\n\nAlthough Kagame's primary reason for the two wars in the Congo was Rwanda's security, he was alleged to gain economic benefit by exploiting the mineral wealth of the eastern Congo. The 2001 United Nations \"Report of the Panel of Experts on the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources and Other Forms of Wealth of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\" alleged that Kagame, along with Ugandan President Museveni, were \"on the verge of becoming the godfathers of the illegal exploitation of natural resources and the continuation of the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\". The report also claimed that the Rwandan Ministry of Defence contained a \"Congo Desk\" dedicated to collecting taxes from companies licensed to mine minerals around Kisangani, and that substantial quantities of coltan and diamonds passed through Kigali before being resold on the international market by staff on the Congo Desk. International NGO Global Witness also conducted field studies in early 2013. It concluded that minerals from North and South Kivu are exported illegally to Rwanda and then marketed as Rwandan. Kagame dismissed these allegations as unsubstantiated and politically motivated; in a 2002 interview with newsletter \"Africa Confidential,\" Kagame said that if solid evidence against Rwandan officers was presented, it would be dealt with very seriously. In 2010, the United Nations released a report accusing the Rwandan army of committing wide scale human rights violations and crimes against humanity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo during the First and Second Congo Wars, charges denied by the Rwandan government.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Kagame began to disagree publicly with Bizimungu and the Hutu-led government in Rwanda. Kagame accused Bizimungu of corruption and poor management, while Bizimungu felt that he had no power over appointments to the cabinet and that the National Assembly was acting purely as a puppet for Kagame. Bizimungu resigned from the presidency in March 2000. Historians do not agree on the precise circumstances of Bizimungu's departure; American author Stephen Kinzer contends that \"one of the president's friends called Kagame with the startling news that the president was preparing to resign\" while Prunier states that Bizimungu was forced to resign, having denounced the National Assembly and attempted to sow discord within the RPF. Following Bizimungu's resignation, the Supreme Court ruled that Kagame should become acting president until a permanent successor was chosen.\n\nKagame had been \"de facto\" leader since 1994, but had focused more on military, foreign affairs and the country's security than day-to-day governance. By 2000, the threat posed by cross-border rebels was much reduced and when Bizimungu resigned, Kagame decided to seek the presidency himself. The transitional constitution was still in effect, which meant the president was elected by government ministers and the national assembly rather than by a direct election.\n\nThe RPF selected two candidates, Kagame and RPF secretary general Charles Murigande; the ministers and parliament elected Kagame by eighty-one votes to three. Kagame was sworn in as president in April 2000. Several Hutu politicians, including the prime minister Pierre-Célestin Rwigema, left the government at around the same time as Bizimungu, leaving a cabinet dominated by those close to Kagame. Bizimungu started his own party following his resignation, but this was quickly banned for \"destabilising the country\". He was subsequently arrested and convicted of corruption and inciting ethnic violence. He was imprisoned until 2007, when he was pardoned by Kagame.\n\nBetween 1994 and 2003, Rwanda was governed by a set of documents combining President Habyarimana's 1991 constitution, the Arusha Accords, and some additional protocols introduced by the transitional government. As required by the accords, Kagame set up a constitutional commission to draft a new permanent constitution. The constitution was required to adhere to a set of fundamental principles including equitable power sharing and democracy. The commission sought to ensure that the draft constitution was \"home-grown\", relevant to Rwanda's specific needs, and reflected the views of the entire population; they sent questionnaires to civil groups across the country and rejected offers of help from the international community, except for financial assistance.\n\nThe draft constitution was released in 2003; it was approved by the parliament, and was then put to a referendum in May of that year. The referendum was widely promoted by the government; ultimately, of eligible adults registered to vote and the turnout on voting day was . The constitution was overwhelmingly accepted, with voting in favour. The constitution provided for a two-house parliament, an elected president serving seven-year terms, and multi-party politics. The constitution also sought to prevent Hutu or Tutsi hegemony over political power. Article 54 states that \"political organizations are prohibited from basing themselves on race, ethnic group, tribe, clan, region, sex, religion or any other division which may give rise to discrimination\". According to Human Rights Watch, this clause, along with later laws enacted by the parliament, effectively make Rwanda a one-party state, as \"under the guise of preventing another genocide, the government displays a marked intolerance of the most basic forms of dissent\".\n\nFollowing the adoption of the new constitution in May 2003, the government set dates for the first elections to be held under the new law. The presidential poll was set for 25 August 2003. In May, the parliament voted to ban the Republican Democratic Movement (MDR), following a parliamentary commission report accusing the MDR of \"divisive\" ideology. The MDR had been one of the coalition parties in the transitional government of national unity, and was the second largest party in the country after the RPF. Amnesty International criticised this move, claiming that \"the unfounded allegations against the individuals mentioned in the report appear to be part of a government-orchestrated crackdown on the political opposition\".\nThe RPF selected Kagame as its presidential candidate, to run for his first full term following his three-year transitional presidency. His main challenger was Faustin Twagiramungu, who had been prime minister from 1994 to 1995, when he resigned and moved to Brussels after a disagreement with Kagame. Twagiramungu had intended to run as the candidate for the MDR, but instead sought the presidency as an independent following the party's banishment. Twagiramungu returned to the country in June 2003 and began campaigning in August. Two other candidates also ran: Alvera Mukabaramba, a medical doctor and former MDR member running for the newly formed Party for Progress and Concord (PPC), and Jean Nepomuscene Nayinzira, an independent and former member of parliament who cited belief in God as a central part of his campaign. Mukabaramba pulled out one day before the election, accusing Twagiramungu of ethnic propaganda and advising her supporters to vote for Kagame. The election went ahead on 25 August with Kagame, Twagiramungu and Nayinzira as candidates.\n\nKagame declared victory in the election on 26 August, after partial results showed he had an almost insurmountable lead, and his win was later confirmed by the National Electoral Commission. The final results showed that Kagame received of the vote, Twagiramungu , and Nayinzira ; the voter turnout was . The campaign, election day, and aftermath were largely peaceful, although an observer from the European Union (EU) raised concerns that opposition supporters may have been intimidated by the RPF. Twagiramungu rejected the result of the election and also questioned the margin of victory, saying \"Almost 100 per cent? That's not possible\". Twagiramungu filed a petition at the Supreme Court to nullify the result, but was unsuccessful. The EU observer also questioned the result, citing \"numerous irregularities\", but praised the election overall, describing it as a \"positive step\". Kagame himself, in an interview with journalist Stephen Kinzer, acknowledged that the opposition had been weak, but he believed the result was genuine. He told Kinzer \"they wanted security first of all. Even people who didn't know the RPF program in detail saw us as the party that would guarantee that\". Kagame was sworn in on 12 September to begin his seven-year term.\n\nKagame's first term expired and new elections were held in 2010. Having served one term as elected president, Kagame was entitled to serve for one further term. The election campaign began publicly in January 2010 when Victoire Ingabire, a Hutu who had been living abroad for some years, returned to Rwanda and announced her candidacy for the presidency. This failed as she was arrested and accused of threatening state security. Ingabire caused some controversy in the country following her arrival, with comments relating to the genocide. The government accused her of breaking the country's strict laws regarding genocide denial, and she was arrested in April 2010. She was released on bail, but was prohibited from running in the election. In October 2012 she was sentenced to fifteen years imprisonment by the High Court of Kigali, which is heavily criticized by Amnesty International.\n\nIn May, Kagame was officially endorsed as the RPF's candidate for the election at the party's national congress. Kagame then became the first candidate to be accepted when he presented his electoral papers in July. Three other candidates registered successfully for the election; they were Jean Damascene Ntawukuriryayo of the Social Democratic Party, Prosper Higiro of the Liberal Party, and Alvera Mukabaramba of the Party for Progress and Concord. Two other contenders failed to get official documents through and did not get accepted into the race. Human Rights Watch described Kagame's three opponents as \"broadly supportive of the RPF\", and claimed that most Rwandans would not describe them as \"real\" opposition, while those who criticised the RPF were barred from the election.\n\nIn the run-up to the election, there was some violence and several incidents involving prominent opposition and media figures. In February, there was a grenade attack in Kigali which killed two people. Rwandan prosecutors blamed Kayumba Nyamwasa, a dissident General who had become a critic of Kagame. Nywamwasa fled to Johannesburg, South Africa, and in June he survived a shooting in the city. Nyamwasa alleged that it was an assassination attempt, a charge Rwanda denied. Days later, journalist Jean-Léonard Rugambage, who claimed to have uncovered the regime's responsibility in the attempted murder, was shot dead. In July, the vice president of the Democratic Green Party, André Kagwa Rwisereka, was beheaded in Butare. There is no concrete evidence linking Kagame with the attacks, but it was sufficient for the United Nations to demand an investigation.\n\nKagame was declared the winner of the election, according to results released by the National Electoral Commission on . Kagame received of the vote, with second placed Ntawukuriryayo polling . The turnout was of registered voters. Opposition and human rights groups later said that the election was tainted by repression, murder, and lack of credible competition. Kagame responded by saying \"I see no problems, but there are some people who choose to see problems where there are not.\" The election was largely peaceful, although there was a further grenade attack in Kigali hours after the election commission announced Kagame's victory, injuring about 20 people. Media reports indicated the attack may have been politically motivated and connected to earlier attacks in the same area.\n\nAs Kagame's second term progressed, he began to hint that he might seek to rewrite the term-limit clause of the Rwandan constitution, to allow him to run for a third term in the 2017 elections. Earlier in his presidency he had ruled it out, but in a 2014 speech at Tufts University in the United States, Kagame said that he did not know when he would leave office, and that it was up to the Rwandan people to decide. He told delegates \"...let's wait and see what happens as we go. Whatever will happen, we'll have an explanation.\" The following year a protest occurred outside parliament, and a petition signed by 3.7 million people—more than half of the electorate—was presented to lawmakers asking for Kagame to be allowed to stay in office. The parliament responded by passing an amendment to the constitution in November 2015, with both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate voting unanimously in favour. The motion passed kept the two-term limit in place, and also reduced the length of terms from 7 years to 5 years, but it made an explicit exception for Kagame, who would be permitted to run for a third 7-year term followed by two further 5-year terms, if he so desired. After the amendment was passed in parliament, a referendum was required for it to come into effect.\n\nThe referendum took place in 18 December 2015, with Rwandans overseas voting on 17 December. The amendment was approved by the electorate, with 6.16 million voters saying yes, approximately 98% of the votes. The electoral commission stated that the vote had been peaceful and orderly. The Democratic Green Party, the most prominent domestic group opposing the change, protested that it had not been permitted to campaign openly against the amendment. Human Rights Watch executive director Ken Roth announced on Twitter that he did not believe the election to be free and fair, saying there was \"no suspense in Rwanda referendum when so many dissidents silenced, civil society stifled.\" The amendment itself was criticised by the European Union and also the United States, which released a statement saying that Kagame should respect the previous term limits and \"foster a new generation of leaders in Rwanda\". Kagame responded that it was not his own decision to seek a third term, but that the parliament and the people had demanded it.\n\nIn accordance with the constitutional change, a presidential election was held on 4 August 2017, in which Kagame was re-elected to a third term with 98.79% of the vote. Kagame was sworn in for another seven-year term on 18 August.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Kagame began actively planning methods to achieve national development. He launched a national consultation process and also sought the advice of experts from emerging nations including China, Singapore and Thailand. Following these consultations, and shortly after assuming the presidency, Kagame launched an ambitious programme of national development called Vision 2020. The major purposes of the programme were to unite the Rwandan people and to transform Rwanda from a highly impoverished into a middle income country. The programme consists of a list of goals which the government aims to achieve before the year 2020. These include reconstruction, infrastructure and transport improvements, good governance, improving agriculture production, private sector development, and health and education improvements.\n\nIn 2011, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning issued a report indicating the progress of the Vision 2020 goals. The report examined the stated goals of the programme and rated each one with a status of \"on-track\", \"on-watch\" or \"off-track\". Of 44 goals, it found that were on-track, were on-watch, and were off-track. The major areas identified as off-track were population, poverty and the environment. An independent review of Vision 2020, carried out in 2012 by academics based in Belgium, rated progress as \"quite encouraging\", mentioning development in the education and health sectors, as well as Kagame's fostering of a favourable business environment. The review also raised concerns about the policy of \"maximum growth at any cost\", suggesting that this was leading to a situation in which the rich prospered while the rural poor saw little benefit.\n\nIn November 2013, Kagame told This Is Africa \"Our thinking is based on people. In national budgets, we focus on education, health, we look at technology, skills, innovation, creativity. We are always thinking about people, people, people.\"\n\nRwanda's economy has grown rapidly under Kagame's presidency, with per-capita gross domestic product (purchasing power parity) estimated at $1,592 in 2013, compared with $567 in 2000. Annual growth between 2004 and 2010 averaged per year. Kagame's economic policy is based on liberalising the economy, privatising state owned industries, reducing red tape for businesses, and transforming the country from an agricultural to a knowledge-based economy. Kagame has stated that he believes Rwanda can emulate the economic development of Singapore since 1960, and achieving middle income country status is one of the central goals of the Vision 2020 programme. Kagame's economic policy has been praised by many foreign donors and investors, including Bill Clinton and Starbucks chairman Howard Schultz. The DRC government and human rights groups have accused Rwanda of illegally exploiting Congolese minerals, which the London \"Daily Telegraph\" describes as an \"important part\" in the success of Rwanda's economy.\n\nRwanda is a country of few natural resources, and the economy is heavily dependent on subsistence agriculture, with an estimated of the working population engaged in farming. Under Kagame's presidency, the service sector has grown strongly. In 2010, it became the country's largest sector by economic output, contributing of the country's GDP. Key tertiary contributors include banking and finance, wholesale and retail trade, hotels and restaurants, transport, storage, communication, insurance, real estate, business services, and public administration, including education and health. Information and communications technology (ICT) is a Vision 2020 priority, with a goal of transforming Rwanda into an ICT hub for Africa. To this end, the government has completed a fibre-optic telecommunications network, intended to provide broadband services and facilitate electronic commerce. Tourism is one of the fastest-growing economic resources and became the country's leading foreign exchange earner in 2011. In spite of the genocide's legacy, Kagame's achievement of peace and security means the country is increasingly perceived internationally as a safe destination; in the first half of 2011, of foreign visitors arrived from outside Africa. The country's mountain gorillas attract thousands of visitors per year, who are prepared to pay high prices for permits.\n\nRwanda ranks highly in several categories of the World Bank's ease of doing business index. In 2005, after the country was ranked 158th on the Ease of Doing Business Index, Kagame set up a special unit to analyze the economy and provide solutions to easing business. As a result, the country topped the list of reformers in 2009. In 2012, the country's overall ease of doing business index ranking was 52nd out of 185 countries worldwide, and third out of 46 in Sub-Saharan Africa. It was eighth on the 2012 rankings for ease of starting a business; the Rwanda Development Board asserts that a business can be authorised and registered in 24 hours. The business environment and economy also benefit from relatively low corruption in the country; in 2010, Transparency International ranked Rwanda as the eighth cleanest out of 47 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa and sixty-sixth cleanest out of 178 in the world.\n\nKagame has made education for youth in Rwanda a high priority for his administration, allocating of the annual budget to the sector. The Rwandan government provides free education in state-run schools for twelve years: six years in primary and six in secondary school. The final three years of free education were introduced in 2012 following a pledge by Kagame during his 2010 re-election campaign. Kagame credits his government with improvements in the tertiary education sector; the number of universities has risen from 1 in 1994 to 29 in 2010, and the tertiary gross enrollment ratio increased from in 2008 to in 2011. From 1994 until 2009, secondary education was offered in either French or English; since 2009, due to the country's increasing ties with the East African Community and the Commonwealth of Nations, English has been the sole language of instruction in public schools from primary school grade 4 onward. The country's literacy rate, defined as those aged 15 or over who can read and write, was in 2009, up from in 1978 and in 1991.\n\nRwanda's health profile is dominated by communicable diseases, including malaria, pneumonia, and HIV/AIDS. Prevalence and mortality rates have sharply declined in the past decade but the short supply or unavailability of certain medicines continues to challenge disease management. Kagame's government is seeking to improve this situation as one of the Vision 2020 priorities. It has increased funding, with the health budget up from of national expenditure in 1996 to in 2008. It also set up training institutes, including the Kigali Health Institute (KHI), and in 2008 effected laws making health insurance mandatory for all individuals; by 2010, over of the population was covered. These policies have contributed to a steady increase in quality of healthcare and improvement in key indicators during Kagame's presidency. In 2010, 91 children died before their fifth birthday for every 1000 live births, down from 163 under five deaths for every 1000 live births in 1990. Prevalence of some diseases is declining, including the elimination of maternal and neonatal tetanus and a sharp reduction in malaria morbidity, mortality rate, and specific lethality. In response to shortages in qualified medical personnel, in 2011 the Rwandan government launched an eight-year US$151.8 million initiative to train medical professionals.\n\nThe Second Congo War, which began in 1998, was still raging when Kagame assumed the presidency in 2000. Namibia, Angola, Zimbabwe, and Chad had committed troops to the Congolese government side, while Rwanda, Uganda, and Burundi were supporting rebel groups. The rebel group Rally for Congolese Democracy (RCD) had split in 1999 into two factions: the RCD-Goma, supported by Rwanda, and the RCD-Kisangani, which was allied to Uganda. Uganda also supported the Movement for the Liberation of the Congo (MLC), a rebel group from the north. All these rebel groups were at war with Kabila's government in Kinshasa, but were also increasingly hostile to each other. Various peace meetings had been held, culminating in the July 1999 Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement which was signed by Kabila, Kagame and all the other foreign governments. The rebel groups were not party to the agreement, and fighting continued. The RPA continued to be heavily involved in the Congo War during 2000, fighting battles against the Ugandan army in Kisangani and against Kabila's army in Kasai and Katanga.\n\nIn January 2001, Kabila was shot dead inside his palace. The Congolese government claimed Kabila had been killed by a rogue bodyguard, who was himself killed at the scene. According to a report published in French newspaper \"Le Monde\", Kabila was killed by the \"kadogo\", an army of child soldiers he was known to have assembled during the First Congo War. The \"kadogo\" had suffered badly during the battles in Kasai and Katanga, were poorly paid, and had become alienated by Kabila. Kabila's son Joseph was appointed president and immediately began asserting his authority by dismissing his father's cabinet and senior army commanders, assembling a new government, and engaging with the international community. The new government provided impetus for renewed peace negotiations, and in July 2002 a peace agreement was reached between Rwanda, Congo, and the other major participants, in which all foreign troops would withdraw and RCD-Goma would enter a power-sharing transitional government with Joseph Kabila as interim president until elections could be held. By the end of 2002, all uniformed Rwandan troops had left Congolese territory.\n\nDespite the agreement and subsequent ceasefire, relations between Kagame and the Congolese government have remained tense. A 2003 United Nations report alleged that Rwanda was using demobilised soldiers to continue its illegal exploitation of Congolese minerals. Meanwhile, Kagame blamed Kabila for failing to suppress Hutu rebels in North and South Kivu provinces. Two major insurgencies have occurred in the eastern provinces: the first, from 2005 to 2009, was led by Congolese Tutsi Laurent Nkunda, while the second, carried out by the March 23 Movement (M23) under leader Bosco Ntaganda, began in 2012; Ntaganda gave himself up to the International Criminal Court in early 2013, and peace talks have taken place, but as of May 2013 the conflict is at risk of resuming. Human Rights Watch alleges that both insurgencies were supported by Rwanda, a charge Kagame denies. A leaked United Nations report in 2012 also alleges Rwandan support for M23; this report cites Kagame's defence minister James Kabarebe as being effectively the commander of the movement.\n\nKagame spent most of his childhood and young adult years living in Uganda, and has a personal relationship with President Yoweri Museveni dating back to the late 1970s; they fought together in the Ugandan Bush War, and Kagame was appointed head of military intelligence in Museveni's national army following the NRA victory in 1986. When the RPF soldiers abandoned the Ugandan army and invaded Rwanda in 1990, Museveni did not explicitly support them, but according to Prunier it is likely that he had prior knowledge of the plan. Museveni also allowed the RPF safe passage through Ugandan territory to the Virunga mountains after their early defeats in the war, and revealed in a 1998 heads of state meeting that Uganda had helped the RPF materially during the Rwandan Civil War. Following the RPF victory, the two countries enjoyed a close political and trade relationship.\n\nRwanda and Uganda were allies during the First Congo War against Zaire, with both countries being instrumental in the setting up of the AFDL and committing troops to the war. The two nations joined forces again at the beginning of the Second Congo War, but relations soured in late 1998 as Museveni and Kagame had very different priorities in fighting the war. In early 1999, the RCD rebel group split into two, with Rwanda and Uganda supporting opposing factions, and in August the Rwandan and Ugandan armies battled each other with heavy artillery in the Congolese city of Kisangani. The two sides fought again in Kisangani in May and June 2000, causing the deaths of 120 soldiers and around 640 Congolese civilians. Relations slowly thawed in the 2000s, and by 2011 the two countries enjoyed a close friendship once more.\n\nIn 2007, Rwanda joined the East African Community, an intergovernmental organisation for the East Africa region comprising Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Burundi, and Rwanda. The country's accession required the signing of various agreements with the other members, including a defence intelligence sharing pact, a customs union, and measures to combat drug trafficking. The countries of the Community established a common market in 2011, and plan further integration, including moves toward political federation and a possible single currency.\n\nFrance maintained close ties with President Habyarimana during his years in power, as part of its \"Françafrique\" policy. When the RPF launched the Rwandan Civil War in 1990, Habyarimana was immediately granted assistance from the President of France, François Mitterrand. France sent 600 paratroopers, who effectively ran the government's response to the invasion and were instrumental in regaining almost all territory the RPF had gained in the first days of the war. France maintained this military presence throughout the war, engaging Kagame's RPF forces again in February 1993 during the offensive that doubled RPF territory. In the later stages of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, France launched \"Opération Turquoise\", a United Nations mandated mission to create safe humanitarian areas for protection of displaced persons, refugees, and civilians in danger; many Rwandans interpreted it as a mission to protect Hutu from the RPF, including some who had participated in the genocide. The French remained hostile to the RPF, and their presence temporarily stalled Kagame's advance in south western Rwanda.\n\nFrance continued to shun the new RPF government following the end of the genocide and the withdrawal of \"Opération Turquoise\". Diplomatic relations were finally reestablished in January 1995, but remained tense as Rwanda accused France of aiding the \"genocidaires\", while France defended its interventions. In 2006, French judge Jean-Louis Bruguière released a report on the assassination of President Habyarimana which concluded that Kagame had ordered the shooting of the plane. Bruguière subsequently issued arrest warrants for nine of Kagame's close aides. Kagame denied the charges and immediately broke off diplomatic relations with France. Relations began to thaw in 2008, and diplomacy was resumed in late 2009. In 2010, Nicolas Sarkozy became the first French president to visit Rwanda since the genocide, admitting for the first time that France made \"grave errors of judgment\". Kagame reciprocated with an official visit to Paris in 2011.\n\nWhile speaking on the 2017 presidential elections in France, Kagame said in an interview to ‘’Jeune Afrique’’ that the possible election of candidate Alain Juppé , then French Foreign Affairs minister during the genocide and failed to win the election, would likely end all possible relations between France and Rwanda. \n\nSince the end of the Rwandan genocide in 1994, Rwanda has enjoyed a close relationship with the English speaking world, in particular the United States (US) and United Kingdom (UK). The two countries have been highly supportive of the RPF programme of stabilisation and rebuilding, with the UK donating large sums each year in budget support, and the US providing military aid as well as supporting development projects. As president, Kagame has been critical of the West's lack of response to the genocide, and the UK and US have responded by admitting guilt over the issue: Bill Clinton, who was President of the United States during the genocide, has described his failure to act against the killings as a \"personal failure\". During the 2000s, Clinton and UK prime minister Tony Blair praised the country's progress under Kagame, citing it as a model recipient for international development funds, and Clinton referred to Kagame as \"one of the greatest leaders of our time\". Both Clinton and Blair have maintained support for the country beyond the end of their terms of office, Clinton via the Clinton Global Initiative and Blair through his role as an unpaid advisor to the Rwandan government.\n\nAs part of his policy of maintaining close relations with English speaking countries, Kagame sought membership of the Commonwealth of Nations, which was granted in 2009. Rwanda was only the second country, after Mozambique, to join the Commonwealth having never had colonial links to the British Empire. Kagame attended the subsequent Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Perth, Australia, addressing the Business Forum. Rwanda also successfully applied for a rotating seat on the United Nations Security Council in 2012, taking over the presidency of that organisation in April 2013.\n\nKagame's relations with the US and UK have come under strain in the early 2010s, following allegations that Rwanda is supporting the M23 rebel movement in Eastern Congo. The UK suspended its budgetary aid programme in 2012, freezing a £21 million donation. The US has also frozen some of its military aid programme for Rwanda, although it stopped short of suspending aid altogether.\n\nChina has been investing in Rwandan infrastructure since 1971, with early projects including hospitals in Kibungo and Masaka. Under Kagame's presidency, trade between the two countries has grown rapidly. The volume of trade increased five-fold between 2005 and 2009, and it doubled again in the following three years, being worth US$160 million in 2012. Projects completed include the renovation of the Kigali road network, funded using a Chinese government loan and undertaken by China Road and Bridge Corporation; the Kigali City Tower, which was built by China Civil Engineering Construction; and a pay television service operated by Star Media.\n\nKagame has been vocal in his praise of China and its model for relations with Africa, saying in a 2009 interview that \"the Chinese bring what Africa needs: investment and money for governments and companies.\" This is in contrast to Western countries, whom Kagame accuses of focussing too heavily on giving aid to the continent rather than building a trading relationship; he also believes that they keep African products out of the world marketplace by the use of high tariffs. China does not involve itself in the domestic affairs of the countries with which it trades, hence has not followed the West in criticising Kagame's alleged involvement in the war in the Congo.\n\nKagame's ultimate goal in international relations is to shift Rwanda from a country dependent on donor aid and loans towards self-sufficiency, trading with other countries on an equal footing. In a 2009 article, Kagame wrote that \"the primary purpose of aid should ultimately be to work itself out\", and should therefore focus on self-sufficiency and building private sector development. Kagame cited an example of donor countries providing free fertilisers to farmers; he believes this to be wrong because it undercuts local fertiliser businesses, preventing them from growing and becoming competitive. In 2012, Kagame launched the Agaciro Development Fund, following proposals made at a national dialogue session in 2011. Agaciro is a solidarity fund whose goal is to provide development finance sourced within Rwanda, supplementing aid already received from overseas. The fund invites contributions from Rwandan citizens, within the country and in the diaspora, as well as private companies and \"friends of Rwanda\". The fund will allocate its funds based on consultations with the populace, as well as financing projects contributing to the Vision 2020 programme.\n\nFormer Rwandan officials have alleged that President Kagame has ordered the murder and disappearance of political opponents. In a 2014 report titled \"Repression Across Borders,\" Human Rights Watch documented at least 10 cases involving attacks or threats against critics outside Rwanda since the late 1990s. The organization asserts the victims were likely targeted due to criticisms of the Rwandan government, the RPF or President Paul Kagame. After the murder of former intelligence chief Patrick Karegeya in South Africa on December 31, 2013, President Kagame made remarks condoning his killing: \"Whoever betrays the country will pay the price. I assure you.\" In 2015, a former Rwandan military officer testified before the U.S. Congress that the Rwandan government had offered him $1 million to assassinate Karegeya as well as Kagame critic General Kayumba Nyamwasa. After his testimony, this officer himself faced threats in Belgium as did a Canadian journalist. In December 2017, a South African court found that the Rwandan government continued to plot the assassination of its critics overseas.\n\nKagame was sworn in as Chairperson of the African Union on 28 January 2018. As Chair, Kagame has made it a goal to launch a Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM) and also make the whole continent of Africa a Continental Free Trade Area which would also bar the need for Travel visas.\n\nMost observers describe Kagame's personality as one of seriousness and intelligence. Richard Grant, writing in London's \"Daily Telegraph\", described Kagame as radiating \"a quality of intense seriousness that is both impressive and intimidating\". Roméo Dallaire, commander of the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda during the Rwandan genocide, described Kagame as having a \"studious air that didn't quite disguise his hawk-like intensity\". Kagame has a highly dominant personality, which he uses to enforce his rule and to ensure that his vision for the country is followed. American journalist Stephen Kinzer, who wrote the biography \"A Thousand Hills\" in collaboration with Kagame himself, describes him as \"one of the most intriguing leaders in Africa\". Kinzer credits Kagame with leadership skills that have fostered Rwanda's rebirth following the genocide, but also cites a personality of \"chronic impatience, barely suppressed anger, and impulsive scorn for critics\". In his interview with Grant, Kagame claimed he sleeps for only four hours per night, devoting the remainder of his day to work, exercise, family, and reading academic texts and foreign newspapers.\n\nIn Rwanda, Kagame's RPF is seen as a Tutsi-dominated party, and in the years following the 1994 genocide, it was deeply unpopular with the Hutu, who constitute of the population. Approximately two million Hutu lived as refugees in neighbouring countries until 1996, when Kagame forced them to return home. Many Hutu also supported the late 1990s cross-border insurgency against Kagame by defeated forces of the former regime. By 1999, when the RPF had weakened the insurgents and the north west became peaceful, the Hutu population became broadly supportive of Kagame. Since becoming president in 2000, Kagame has won three disputed presidential elections with over of the vote each time. Despite criticisms over opposition repression during these elections, and accusations that the figures were inflated, Kagame does receive genuine support from the population, who credit him with ensuring continued peace, stability, and economic growth.\n\nKagame's image amongst international observers is varied. Human rights organisations, including Amnesty International and Freedom House, claim that Kagame hamstrings his opposition by restricting candidacies in elections to government-friendly parties, suppressing demonstrations, and arresting opposition leaders and journalists. Human Rights Watch and Freedom House have accused Kagame of using strict laws criminalizing \"divisionism\" (ethnic hatred) and genocide ideology to silence his critics, to the point that Rwanda is a \"de facto\" one-party state. It has praised some aspects of Kagame's rule, such as the progress made in the delivery of justice and the abolition of the death penalty. Other progressive initiatives include supporting a UN declaration on LGBT rights, as well as the world's highest representation of women in parliament. Kagame's image amongst foreign leaders was very positive until the late 2000s. He was credited with ending the genocide, bringing peace and security to Rwanda, and achieving development. Since 2010, the international community has increasingly criticized Kagame following a leaked United Nations report alleging Rwanda's support for the rebel M23 movement in Congo. In 2012, the United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands and several other countries suspended programmes of budget support to Rwanda, with many redirecting their aid to project-based assistance.\n\nKagame promotes the Internet as a means of communication between leadership and ordinary people. In addition to his personal website, which contains a personal blog, he has accounts on Flickr, YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. In 2011, he argued with British journalist Ian Birrell on Twitter following a tweet by Birrell about media freedom in Rwanda.\n\nKagame has received many honours and accolades during his presidency. These include honorary degrees from the American University of the Pacific, Oklahoma Christian University, and the University of Glasgow, the Andrew Young Medal for Capitalism and Social Progress by Georgia State University, and a Clinton Global Citizen Award. Kagame has also received the highest awards bestowed by the countries of Liberia and Benin, the Distinction of the Grand Cordon in the Most Venerable Order of the Knighthood of Pioneers, and the Grand Cross of the National Order of Merit respectively. In September 2010, the British political magazine \"New Statesman\" named Kagame one of its 50 most influential figures for that year, placing him in 49th place. The Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations football tournament has been named the Kagame Interclub Cup since 2002, due to Kagame's sponsorship of the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "25793214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25793214", "title": "Satish Shetty", "text": "Satish Shetty\n\nSatish Shetty (21 July 1970 – 13 January 2010), popularly known as \"Satish\", was an Indian social activist, noted for exposing many land scams in Maharashtra. He had used the Right to Information Act to expose irregularities in Government offices in the last five years. He was killed on 13 January 2010, by unknown attackers in Talegaon.\n\nIn recent years, Shetty had used the RTI Act to expose large scale land scams involving the leading real estate firm IRB Infrastructure and its subsidiary Aryan. In 2009, he filed a complaint that forged documents had been used by these firms to acquire large swathes of land in the Taje and Pimploli villages off the Pune-Mumbai highway. After investigations, 90 sale deeds were cancelled, and sub-registrar Ashwini Kshirsagar was suspended. The company blamed land brokers for the irregularities, and the planned IRB township project was eventually scrapped.\n\nAfter this episode, Shetty started getting threat calls. In November 2009, he filed a request with the Pune rural police seeking protection. In the request, he said that he had been receiving threats allegedly originating with Virendra Mhaiskar, chairman of IRB Infrastructure. Protection was not granted.\n\nIn January 2010, Shetty was knifed by several people while he was \nat a kiosk reading a paper after his morning walk.\n\nThe subsequent police investigations proposed a different theory for the murder, ignoring the IRB infrastructure association. Eventually the case was transferred to the CBI.\n\nIn Oct 2012, CBI raided the offices of IRB Infrastructure \n\nHe was given posthumously the Sajag Nagrik Award, which was received by his brother Sandeep at a function held in Pune\n\nNational RTI Forum has honoured his martyrdom by naming an award after him as Satish Shetty RTI Gallantry award.\n\nIn 2011 he was posthumously awarded the NDTV Indian of the Year's LIC Unsung Hero of the Year Award with other RTI activists Amit Jethwa, Dattatreya Patil, Vishram Dodiya and Vitthal Gite\n\n"}
{"id": "54596263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54596263", "title": "Scaea", "text": "Scaea\n\nIn Greek mythology, Scaea (Ancient Greek: Σκαιήν means \"left, on the left hand\"), was one of the Danaids.\n\nScaea was the daughter of Danaus, king of Libya and of Europe, a queen. She was the full sister of other Danaids namely Automate, Amymone and Agave. Scaea was married to Daiphron, son of Aegyptus and later to Archander of whom she had begotten a son, Metanastes.\n\nScaea like her other sisters, except Hypermnestra, killed their husbands on their wedding night at the behest of their father Danaus. Because of the murder, later on, Scaea and her sisters were punished in afterlife, being forced to carry a jug to fill a bathtub (pithos) without a bottom (or with a leak) to wash their sins off. The water was always leaking that they would forever try to fill the tub.\n\nIn some accounts, Scaea remarried Archander while her sister Automate took as husband his brother Architeles. These two were sons of Achaeus, coming from Phthiotis to settle in Argos.\n"}
{"id": "24138899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24138899", "title": "T. S. Arthanari", "text": "T. S. Arthanari\n\nT. S. Arthanari was an Indian politician and former Member of the Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu. He was elected to the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly as a Communist Party of India candidate from Tiruchengode constituency in 1952 election.\n"}
{"id": "12164253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12164253", "title": "Tiffany Case", "text": "Tiffany Case\n\nTiffany Case is a fictional character in the 1956 James Bond novel \"Diamonds Are Forever\" and its 1971 film adaptation. A \"Bond girl\", she was portrayed by Jill St. John in the film. In the novel, the story of her name is that when she was born, her father Case was so embittered she was not a boy that he gave her mother a thousand dollars and a powder case from Tiffany’s and walked out. In the film it is stated that she was named after her accidental preterm birthplace, Tiffany & Co., where her parents were going through a choice of wedding bands, to which Bond dryly jokes that she was lucky that it had not happened at Van Cleef & Arpels.\n\nIn Ian Fleming's novel, she is an American diamond smuggler working as a fence for The Spangled Mob, a ruthless American gang that is smuggling diamonds from Africa through an international pipeline. Bond contacts her in London posing as petty crook Peter Franks, using her professionally as a gateway into the pipeline even as he develops a personal interest in her. Felix Leiter, familiar with Tiffany's background, acquaints Bond with the fact that she was gang-raped as a teenager and, as a result, has developed a hatred of men. She is nevertheless attracted to Bond, and the two ultimately become lovers.\n\nTiffany turns against her former partners, and helps Bond escape from their clutches. In the novel, she is later kidnapped by Wint & Kidd on the \"Queen Elizabeth\", but she is in turn rescued by Bond.\n\nAfter this adventure, the two briefly live together, but, like many of Bond's women, she is out of his life by the next novel, \"From Russia, with Love\". In this novel, Fleming writes that Tiffany found Bond too difficult to live with and returned to the United States with an American military officer, apparently intending to marry him.\n\nThe 1971 film adaptation of \"Diamonds are Forever\" substantially revised the plot and, with it, Tiffany's character. In the film, she is a small-time smuggler unwittingly working for Bond's nemesis Ernst Stavro Blofeld and his terrorist organisation, SPECTRE. Posing as gangster Peter Franks, Bond arranges a partnership with her, but this time it is to investigate her role in Blofeld's latest criminal scheme. She initially believes that she and \"Franks\" are going to make millions, but gets caught up in much more than she bargained for as Blofeld's henchmen, Mr. Wint and Mr. Kidd, begin eliminating all the links in the smuggling chain. When they accidentally kill Bond's casino conquest Plenty O'Toole after mistaking her for Tiffany, she helps Bond follow the path of the smuggled diamonds to Blofeld.\n\nBy the end of the film, Tiffany has helped Bond defeat Blofeld, and the two depart America on a romantic cruise together. On the first evening they are interrupted by an assassination attempt by Wint and Kidd, but Bond foils it, and the two continue their cruise, conscious that Blofeld's diamond-encrusted satellite, now non-functional, is above them in space. Tiffany wonders aloud how they might get the diamonds back to earth again.\n\nIn an attempt to leave Las Vegas with the diamonds, Tiffany hires a red Ford Mustang Mach 1, which is later driven by Bond.\n"}
{"id": "32130521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32130521", "title": "Tony Momoh", "text": "Tony Momoh\n\nPrince Tony Momoh (born 27 April 1939) is a Nigerian journalist and politician who was Nigerian Minister of Information and Culture (1986–1990) during the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida.\n\nMomoh was born on 27 April 1939 in Auchi, Edo state, of Edo origin.\nHe was the 165th child of King Momoh I of Auchi.\nHe attended Government School Auchi (1949–1954) and Anglican School Okpe (1954).\nMomoh was Pupil Teacher at the Anglican School, Auchi (January–December 1955) and Headmaster at the Anglican School, Ubuneke, Ivbiaro, Owan Local Government (January 1958 – December 1959).\nHe went to the Provincial Teachers Training College, Abudu, Edo State and Government Teachers College, Abraka in Western Region (1960–1961).\n\nLater, while working at the \"Daily Times\" or on sabbatical, he attended the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (September 1964 – October 1966) where he earned a degree in Mass communication, and then the University of Lagos where he studied Law.\nHe attended the Nigerian Law School, Lagos (October 1974 – May 1975), and was called to the bar in June 1975.\n\nMomoh started his journalism career as a sub-editor at the \"Daily Times\" in October 1962, rising steadily through the ranks to become Editor and deputy general manager (June 1976 – May 1980).\nIn June 1979, during the lead-up to the transition from military to civilian rule at the start of the Second Nigerian Republic, Momoh said of the five presidential candidates: \"They are all the same ... It's going to turn into a personality contest\".\nIn 1981 the Senate led by Joseph Wayas summoned Momoh for contempt. This caused a major legal battle in which Momoh successfully argued that as a journalist he was empowered by the constitution to hold government accountable at all times.\nIn \"Tony Momoh v. Speaker, House of Representatives\" (1982) it was held that a person had the right to refuse to disclose their source of information.\nHowever, in \"Senate v. Tony Momoh\" (1983) the Court of Appeals held that the press is not a fourth arm of government. A newspaper publisher has no special immunity and the press can be ordered to disclose its sources in some cases.\n\nMomoh was general manager of the \"Times\" from June 1984 to Sept 1986.\n\nMomoh was appointed Minister of Information and Culture by General Ibrahim Babangida, holding this position from September 1986 until 1990.\nHe was Chairman of the African Conference of Information Ministers from 1988 to 1990.\nIn 1983 the editor of \"Newswatch\", Dele Giwa, was detained for a week by police for publishing what they called \"classified material\". On 17 October 1986 Giwa was accused by Colonel A.K. Togun of the State Security Services (SSS) of anti-government activities including attempting to import arms to foment insurrection. On 19 October 1986 Giwa was killed by a parcel bomb. At first, Momoh pledged that there would be a government probe of the incident. He soon backed down, saying \"a special probe would serve no useful purpose\".\n\nSpeaking at a seminar in Lagos in 1987, Momoh said that radio, television and newspapers should be seen as tools \"for the promotion of national unity and integration\".\nIn 1988 Momoh announced that the government was trying to find radio sets that could only receive approved broadcasts from the federal and state radio stations. This was \"as a means of ensuring that information about the country was adequately disseminated\".\n\nIn a February 1990 interview published in \"Ebony magazine\" Momoh talked about the rich and diverse Nigerian culture. He stated that British-style parliamentary democracy and the American-style presidential system had both failed in Nigeria because they were not compatible with these local cultures. He said that Nigeria was now establishing a system of grass-roots democracy in a two-party system.\nIn May 1990 party elections were held for local ward positions using an \"open ballot\", where voters showed their preference by standing in front of a photograph of the candidate. Party elections were then scheduled for the state and national elections. Momoh said the government would not interfere in the inner workings of parties. Soon after, all the National Republican Convention candidates for national offices were disqualified on the grounds that there were irregularities in their application forms.\n\nBabangida followed a policy of donating money, vehicles, offices and so on to local governments, political parties and others on the basis that this would keep them free of influence by the rich and powerful. As Minister for Information Momoh justified the practice, saying of Democracy that it \"is not as expensive as people are thinking in relation to the alternative. The alternative is allowing one man to dictate to the whole Nigeria because you don't want it to be expensive. If money is not spent on democracy and a one-man dictatorship emerges ... it is the same Nigerians who are talking of expensiveness now that will shout that one man is a dictator\".\n\nBabangida was tough on the press at times, but tried to avoid open conflict. When the press began calling for Momoh's dismissal he was slow to respond, since Momoh was intelligent and reflective, and had experience from his own days as a newspaper editor. However, he finally dismissed Momoh and replaced him by Alex Akinyele, who had previously been in the customs services and had been a director at \"Newswatch\".\n\nMomoh was Chairman of the board of directors of Nigerian Airways from 1991 to 1993.\nHe was appointed a Member of the Edo State Economic Advisory Committee in 1991, and a member of the Nigerian Press Council in December 1992.\nAs of 1996 Momoh was one of the directors of the Newswatch magazine, said to have a circulation of 150,000 copies in Africa, Europe and North America.\nMomoh was Director of the Alex Ekwueme Presidential Campaign Organization in 1999.\nHe was chairman, Media and Publicity of the All Nigeria People's Party (ANPP) Campaign Organisation in the 2003 and 2007 elections.\nHe was also Chairman of the Political Committee of the Muhammadu Buhari Organisation.\n\nIn January 2011 Momoh was appointed Chairman of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) in the lead-up to the April 2011 national elections, with Buba Galadima appointed the National Secretary.\nSoon after being appointed, Momoh said the CPC would bar any of its aspirants to become candidates if they were to engage in corrupt practices or thuggery during the primaries.\nFollowing disappointing results in the April 2011 elections, Momoh asserted that massive rigging had taken place. However, he described the CPC as a mass movement that was bound to grow and achieve the high goals of its founders.\n\n"}
{"id": "2943846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2943846", "title": "Trial of Saddam Hussein", "text": "Trial of Saddam Hussein\n\nThe Trial of Saddam Hussein was the trial of the deposed President of Iraq Saddam Hussein by the Iraqi Interim Government for crimes against humanity during his time in office.\n\nThe Coalition Provisional Authority voted to create the Iraqi Special Tribunal (IST), consisting of five Iraqi judges, on 9 December 2003, to try Saddam Hussein and his aides for charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide.\n\nCritics viewed the trial as a show trial that did not meet international standards on the right to a fair trial. Amnesty International stated that the trial was \"unfair,\" and Human Rights Watch judged that Saddam's execution \"follows a flawed trial and marks a significant step away from the rule of law in Iraq.\" Several months before the trial took place, Salem Chalabi, the former head of the Iraq Special Tribunal (which was established to try Hussein), accused interim Iraqi Prime Minister Iyad Allawi of pushing for a hasty show trial and execution, stating: \"Show trials followed by speedy executions may help the interim government politically in the short term but will be counterproductive for the development of democracy and the rule of law in Iraq in the long term.\"\n\nSaddam was captured by U.S. forces on 13 December 2003. He remained in custody by United States forces at Camp Cropper in Baghdad, along with eleven senior Ba'athist officials. Particular attention was paid during the trial to activities in violent campaigns against the Kurds in the north during the Iran–Iraq War, against the Shiites in the south in 1991 and 1999 to put down revolts, and in Dujail after a failed assassination attempt on 8 July 1982, during the Iran–Iraq War. Saddam asserted in his defense that he had been unlawfully overthrown, and was still the president of Iraq.\n\nThe first trial began before the Iraqi Special Tribunal on 19 October 2005. At this trial Saddam and seven other defendants were tried for crimes against humanity with regard to events that took place after a failed assassination attempt in Dujail in 1982 by members of the Islamic Dawa Party (see also human rights abuses in Iraq under Saddam Hussein). A second and separate trial began on 21 August 2006, trying Saddam and six co-defendants for genocide during the Anfal military campaign against the Kurds of northern Iraq.\n\nOn 5 November 2006, Saddam was sentenced to death by hanging. On 26 December, Saddam's appeal was rejected and the death sentence upheld. No further appeals were taken and Saddam was ordered executed within 30 days of that date. The date and place of the execution were secret until the sentence was carried out. Saddam Hussein was executed by hanging on 30 December 2006. With his death, all other charges were dropped.\n\nThe 67-year-old, President Saddam Hussein appeared confident and defiant throughout the 46-minute hearing. Alternating between listening to and gesturing at the judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin, he questioned the legitimacy of the tribunal set up to try him. He called the court a \"play\" aimed at Bush's chances of winning the US presidential elections. He emphatically rejected charges against him. \"This is all theater. The real criminal is Bush\", he stated. When asked by the judge to identify himself in his first appearance before an Iraqi judge (three of the five judges and the prosecutor were never identified nor photographed for security reasons), he answered, \"You are an Iraqi, you know who I am.\"\n\nAlso during the arraignment, Saddam defended Iraq's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait and referred to Kuwaitis as \"dogs\" who were trying to turn the women of Iraq into \"two penny whores\", which led to an admonition from the judge for using coarse language in court. Later on 1 July, Kuwait's information minister Abul-Hassan said crude language was \"expected\" of Saddam. \"This is how he was raised\", said the minister.\n\nAlthough no attorneys for Saddam were present at the 1st of July hearing, his first wife, Sajida Talfah, hired a multinational legal team of attorneys, headed by Jordanian Mohammad Rashdan and including Ayesha Gaddafi (Libya), Curtis Doebbler (United States), Emmanuel Ludot (France) and Marc Henzelin (Switzerland). Towards the end of the first hearing, the deposed president refused to sign the legal document confirming his understanding of the charges.\n\nIn a leaked transcript of a February 2003 meeting between Bush and Spanish Prime Minister Jose Aznar, Bush expressed a willingness to have Saddam tried at the International Tribunal of Justice in The Hague.\n\nIn December 2004, Clive Stafford Smith prepared a 50-page brief for the defense team arguing that Saddam Hussein should be tried in the US under US criminal law.\n\nThe London-based Arab-language daily newspaper \"Al-Quds Al-Arabi\" reported in early May 2005 that during a meeting with Donald Rumsfeld, \"known only to a few Iraqi officials in Jordan\", Saddam refused an offer of release if he made a televised request to armed groups for a ceasefire with allied forces. The British \"Daily Telegraph\" newspaper, quoting an unnamed senior UK government source, had reported two weeks before that Iraqi insurgents were being offered a \"deal\" whereby the President of Iraq would receive a more lenient sentence if they gave up their attacks.\n\nOn 17 June 2005, former Malaysian prime minister Mahathir Mohamad, former US Attorney General Ramsey Clark, former minister of Foreign Affairs of France Roland Dumas and former President of Algeria Ahmed Ben Bella announced the formation, under their joint chairmanship, of an international Emergency Committee for Iraq, with a main objective of ensuring fair trials for Saddam and the other former Ba'ath Party officials being tried with him.\n\nOn 18 July 2005, Saddam was charged by the Special Tribunal with the first of an expected series of charges, relating to the mass killings of the inhabitants of the village of Dujail in 1982 after a failed assassination attempt against him.\n\nOn 8 August 2005, Saddam's family announced that they had dissolved the Jordan-based legal team and that they had appointed Khalil al-Duleimi, the only Iraq-based member, as the sole legal counsel. In an interview broadcast on Iraqi television on 6 September 2005, Iraqi president Jalal Talabani said that he had directly extracted confessions from your predecessor, Saddam that he had ordered mass killings and other \"crimes\" during his regime and that he deserved to die. Two days later, Saddam's lawyer denied that he confessed.\n\nSaddam's defense repeatedly argued for a delay in the proceedings, insisting that it had not been given evidence secured by the prosecution, had not been given sufficient time to review any prosecution documents, but these submissions received no response from the court. International human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and UN bodies such as the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention and the High Commissioner for Human Rights stated that the Iraqi Special Tribunal and its legal process did not meet international standards for a fair trial. The United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan declined to support the proceeding, expressing similar concerns over fairness as well as over the possibility of a death sentence in the case.\n\nIraqi authorities put Saddam and seven other former Iraqi officials on trial on 19 October 2005, four days after the 15 October 2005 referendum on the new Iraqi constitution. The tribunal specifically charged the defendants with the killing of 148 Shiites from Dujail, in retaliation for the failed assassination attempt of 8 July 1982. Supporters of Saddam protested against the trial in Tikrit. After the charges were read to them, all eight defendants pleaded not guilty. While initially open to the public, the trial was closed to them on 15 March 2006, after Saddam began making political statements on the stand and an argument began between him and the presiding judge.\n\nSaddam's co-defendants were:\n\nAs in his pre-trial appearance, at the opening of the 19 October Trial Saddam appeared defiant. He rejected the tribunal's legitimacy and independence from the control of the foreign occupation. \"I do not respond to this so-called court, with all due respect to its people, and I retain my constitutional right as the president of Iraq\", Saddam declared. He added, \"Neither do I recognize the body that has designated and authorized you, nor the aggression because all that has been built on false basis is false.\" When the judge asked for his name, Saddam refused, stating \"I am the president of the Iraq\". He returned the question, asking Kurdish judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin, \"Who are you? I want to know who you are.\" When Amin addressed Saddam as \"the former president\", Saddam objected emphatically, saying he was still the President of the Republic of Iraq and had not been deposed.\n\nThe first session of Saddam's trial lasted three hours. The court adjourned the case until 28 November 2005, as some of the witnesses were too frightened to attend, and to allow the defense more time to study evidence. During an interview with the Arab news agency al-Arabiya following the opening of the trial, Saddam's eldest daughter Raghad branded the court a \"farce\" and claimed that her father behaved like a \"lion\" during the proceedings. \"He would be a lion even when caged. Every honest person who knows Saddam knows that he is firm and powerful.\"\n\nThe trial was adjourned on 28 November 2005 by Chief Judge Rizgar Mohammed Amin to allow time to find replacement lawyers for several of the defendants; Attorney Saadoun Sughaiyer al-Janabi, charged with the defense of Awad Hamed al-Bandar, was abducted from his office by gunmen on 20 October 2005, and found shot dead near his office a few hours later. On 8 November 2005, attorney Adel al-Zubeidi, who had been representing Vice President Taha Yassin Ramadan and Abdullah Kazim Ruwayyid, was killed by three gunmen in Baghdad. Barazan Ibrahim's lawyer Thamer Hamoud al-Khuzaie was also wounded in the attack.\n\nThere were several incidents during the trial where Saddam showed defiance against the court's authority. At one point, Saddam's legal defense team stormed out of the court after questioning the tribunal's legitimacy, and asking about return of defence papers seized by US Army troops and security issues regarding the protection of the defense. Saddam, along with his co-defendants, railed against Chief Judge Amin and the tribunal. The next day, after listening to hours of testimony against him, he lashed out at the judge. He said that he was exhausted, he did not intend on returning to the trial, and to \"go to hell\". Later, on 7 December 2005, Saddam refused to enter court, complaining of the conditions in which he was being held and the conduct of the trial. Saddam's complaints included, among other things, that he had not been able to change his clothes for four days. On 12 December 2005, instead of cross-examining witnesses, Saddam accused his American captors of torturing him, saying, \"I have been beaten on every place of my body, and the signs are all over my body.\"\n\nOn 29 January 2006, the trial was thrown in disarray after a courtroom session in which Saddam's half-brother Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti was dragged away by guards, the defense team walked out, and Saddam was ejected following a slanging match with chief judge Rauf Rashid Abd al-Rahman, who had replaced former chief judge Rizgar Amin, who resigned after complaining of government interference.\n\nChief Prosecutor Jaafar al-Moussawi called for the death penalty for Saddam and four other defendants including Barzan al-Tikriti, Saddam's half-brother, Taha Yassin Ramadan, former Iraqi Vice President and Awad Hamed al-Bander, former chief judge of Saddam's Revolutionary Court. The suspects faced execution by hanging if convicted and sentenced to death.\n\nFollowing the assassination of his chief defense lawyer, Khamis al-Obeidi, Saddam began a hunger strike, protesting against the lack of international protection for lawyers, On 23 June 2006, it was reported that Saddam ended his hunger strike, having missed one meal. On 27 June 2006, two of Saddam Hussein's lawyers, Ramsey Clark, a former US Attorney-General, and Curtis Doebbler, held a press conference at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C., to call for immediate security for all the Iraqi defense lawyers and to complain in a written statement that the trial was unfair, and was being conducted by the American authorities using Iraqis as a front. The two lawyers claimed that the United States had refused to provide adequate protection for the defense lawyers despite repeated requests that were made and that the United States was intentionally ensuring an unfair trial.\n\nOn 5 November 2006, Saddam Hussein was sentenced to death by hanging for the killing of 148 Shiites from Dujail, in retaliation for the assassination attempt of 8 July 1982. When the judge announced the verdict, Saddam shouted, \"Long live the people. Long live the Arab nation. Down with the spies. God is great.\" Chief defense lawyer Khalil al-Dulaimi later quoted a statement from Saddam Hussein given just before the Court issued its verdict. He said that Saddam urged his countrymen to \"unify in the face of sectarian strife\". Al-Dulaimi added that Saddam's message to the people was to \"pardon and do not take revenge on the invading nations, its civilians\". An appeal, mandated by the Iraqi judicial system, followed. There was speculation that the appeals could last years, postponing his actual execution. However, on 26 December, Saddam's appeal was rejected and the death sentence was given. No further appeals were possible and Saddam had to be executed within 30 days of that date. The decision still had to be ratified by the Iraqi President but could not be commuted. Judge Arif Shaheen, one of the nine appeal judges, said, \"It cannot exceed 30 days. As from tomorrow the sentence could be carried out at any time. The appeals court has issued its verdict. What we have decided today is compulsory.\"\n\nOn 30 December 2006 at approximately 6:05 am Baghdad time, Saddam Hussein's sentence was carried out and he was executed by hanging.\n\nAmong Saddam's co-defendants, Barzan Ibrahim al-Tikriti, his half-brother and Iraq's intelligence chief at the time of the Dujail killings, and Awad Hamed al-Bandar, who issued death sentences to Dujail residents as head of a Revolutionary Court, were also sentenced to death by hanging. They were executed on 15 January 2007. The former Iraqi vice-president Taha Yassin Ramadan was sentenced to life in prison. However, on 12 February 2007, the sentence was changed to death by hanging, and Ramadan was executed on 20 March 2007.\n\nFormer Ba'ath party officials in the Dujail region Abdullah Kadhem Roweed Al-Musheikhi, his son Mizher Abdullah Roweed Al-Musheikhi, and Ali Daeem Ali were sentenced to 15 years in prison. Mohammed Azawi Ali, also a Ba'ath party official in Dujail region, was acquitted due to a lack of evidence.\n\nSaddam was executed by hanging after being convicted of crimes against humanity following his trial and conviction for the illegal killings of 148 Shi'as in the town of Dujail in 1982. He was hanged on the first day of an important Islamic holiday, Eid ul-Adha, 30 December 2006, at approximately 06:05 AM local time (03:05 UTC). The execution was carried out at \"Camp Justice,\" an Iraqi army base in Kazimain, a neighborhood of northeast Baghdad.\n\nCritics, including Saddam's legal counsel Khalil al-Dulaimi, alleged that American officials had a heavy influence on the court. In a statement, Khalil said, \"this court is a creature of the US military occupation, and the Iraqi court is just a tool and rubber stamp of the invaders.\"\n\nKhalil al-Dulaimi and various international commentators alleged that the date on which the verdict was read live to the world, 5 November 2006, was deliberately selected by the Bush Administration in order to influence the US midterm elections which occurred two days later. This has been called a November Surprise. The verdict was expected to be on 16 October 2006, but was postponed to consider recalling some of the witnesses. Even as the verdict was released verbally on 5 November, the written, final verdict was not released until days later.\n\n\"The Washington Post\" reported that \"Americans have drafted most of the statutes under which Hussein and his associates are being tried\". It also reported that \"A US official in Baghdad confirmed last weekend that only the United States and Britain had contributed experts to advise the court on how to prosecute governments for war crimes and other such matters\".\n\nThe human rights organization Amnesty International criticized the death sentence and said the trial was \"deeply flawed and unfair.\" The process was marred by \"serious flaws that call into question the capacity of the tribunal,\" Malcolm Stuart, director of Amnesty's Middle East and North Africa program, said. \"In particular, political interference undermined the independence and impartiality of the court.\" The specific concerns raised by Amnesty International included the status of the trial as a \"Special Trial\" (unconstitutional according to the Iraqi Constitution), political interference in trial proceedings by the removal of a judge mid-trial, exclusion of members of the defense team at points in the trial, assassination of multiple members of the defence team, and the closure of the trial before the defence team had completed presenting its legal case.\n\nIn the opening statement of the Jury of Conscience of the World Tribunal on Iraq, keynote speaker Arundhati Roy retorted, \"Saddam Hussein is being tried as a war criminal even as we speak. But what about those who helped to install him in power, who armed him, who supported him—and who are now setting up a tribunal to try him and absolve themselves completely?\"\n\nJournalist Mohamad Bazzi wrote in 2014 that Hussein's trial and execution deepened sectarianism in Iraq:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3409950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3409950", "title": "Vatroslav Lisinski", "text": "Vatroslav Lisinski\n\nVatroslav Lisinski (Zagreb, 8 July 1819 – Zagreb, 31 May 1854) was a Croatian composer.\n\nLisinski was born Ignatius Fuchs to a German Jewish family. He would later change his name to Vatroslav Lisinski, which is a Croatian calque of his original name. For a time he worked as a clerk at the Tabula Banalis in Zagreb.\n\nLisinski composed the first Croatian opera, \"Love and Malice\" (Ljubav i zloba, 1846), which he wrote at the urging of Alberto Ognjen Štriga, and \"Porin\" (1851) as well as numerous works for orchestra, choir and soloists. The Vatroslav Lisinski Concert Hall is named after him.\n\nHe was also one of the founders of Illyrism, a movement that advocated the importance of Croatian and more generally South Slavic cultural heritage, as a reaction to Magyarisation during the Austro-Hungarian rule.\n\nLisinski died in Zagreb on 31 May 1854 and was buried at the Mirogoj Cemetery.\n\nThe international train EN 498/499 connecting Zagreb and Munich is named Lisinski.\n\n"}
