{"id": "5830446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5830446", "title": "AP Russian Language and Culture", "text": "AP Russian Language and Culture\n\nAP Russian Language and Culture is a proposed Advanced Placement course and examination, in development since 2005. It is being developed through the American Council of Teachers of Russian, in collaboration with the College Board and with funding from the U.S. Department of Education and the National Security Education Program.\n\nAP Russian Language is equivalent to a second-year college-level Russian language course. Students enrolling in AP Russian Language and Culture are typically in their fourth or fifth year of language study, or have had equivalent experience with the language.\n\nThe exam is reported with a score of 1 to 5. A prototype exam was administered to students in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "36915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36915", "title": "Arabesque", "text": "Arabesque\n\nThe arabesque is a form of artistic decoration consisting of \"surface decorations based on rhythmic linear patterns of scrolling and interlacing foliage, tendrils\" or plain lines, often combined with other elements. Another definition is \"Foliate ornament, used in the Islamic world, typically using leaves, derived from stylised half-palmettes, which were combined with spiralling stems\". It usually consists of a single design which can be 'tiled' or seamlessly repeated as many times as desired. Within the very wide range of Eurasian decorative art that includes motifs matching this basic definition, the term \"arabesque\" is used consistently as a technical term by art historians to describe only elements of the decoration found in two phases: Islamic art from about the 9th century onwards, and European decorative art from the Renaissance onwards. Interlace and scroll decoration are terms used for most other types of similar patterns.\n\nArabesques are a fundamental element of Islamic art but they develop what was already a long tradition by the coming of Islam. The past and current usage of the term in respect of European art can only be described as confused and inconsistent. Some Western arabesques derive from Islamic art, but others are closely based on ancient Roman decorations. In the West they are essentially found in the decorative arts, but because of the generally non-figurative nature of Islamic art, arabesque decoration is there often a very prominent element in the most significant works, and plays a large part in the decoration of architecture.\n\nClaims are often made regarding the theological significance of the arabesque, and its origin in a specifically Islamic view of the world; however these are without support from written historical sources as, like most medieval cultures, the Islamic world has not left us documentation of their intentions in using the decorative motifs they did. At the popular level such theories often appear uninformed as to the wider context of the arabesque. In similar fashion, proposed connections between the arabesque and Arabic knowledge of geometry remains a subject of debate; not all art historians are persuaded that such knowledge had reached, or was needed by, those creating arabesque designs, although in certain cases there is evidence that such a connection did exist. The case for a connection with Islamic mathematics is much stronger for the development of the geometric patterns with which arabesques are often combined in art. Geometric decoration often uses patterns that are made up of straight lines and regular angles that somewhat resemble curvilinear arabesque patterns; the extent to which these too are described as arabesque varies between different writers.\n\nArabesque is a French term that derived from the Italian word Arabesco, and it means Arabic style. \n\nThe development of this and related terms in the main European languages is complicated, and described in \"Western arabesque\" below.\n\nThe arabesque developed out of the long-established traditions of plant-based scroll ornament in the cultures taken over by the early Islamic conquests. Early Islamic art, for example in the famous 8th century mosaics of the Great Mosque of Damascus, often contained plant-scroll patterns, in that case by Byzantine artists in their usual style. The plants most often used are stylized versions of the acanthus, with its emphasis on leafy forms, and the vine, with an equal emphasis on twining stems. The evolution of these forms into a distinctive Islamic type was complete by the 11th century, having begun in the 8th or 9th century in works like the Mshatta Facade. In the process of development the plant forms became increasing simplified and stylized. The relatively abundant survivals of stucco reliefs from the walls of palaces (but not mosques) in Abbasid Samarra, the Islamic capital between 836 and 892, provide examples of three styles, Styles A, B, and C, though more than one of these may appear on the same wall, and their chronological sequence is not certain. \nThough the broad outline of the process is generally agreed, there is a considerable diversity of views held by specialist scholars on detailed issues concerning the development, categorization and meaning of the arabesque. The detailed study of Islamic arabesque forms was begun by Alois Riegl in his formalist study \"Stilfragen: Grundlegungen zu einer Geschichte der Ornamentik\" (\"Problems of style: foundations for a history of ornament\") of 1893, who in the process developed his influential concept of the \"Kunstwollen\". Riegl traced formalistic continuity and development in decorative plant forms from ancient Egyptian art and other ancient Near Eastern civilizations through the classical world to the Islamic arabesque. While the \"Kunstwollen\" has few followers today, his basic analysis of the development of forms has been confirmed and refined by the wider \"corpus\" of examples known today. Jessica Rawson has recently extended the analysis to cover Chinese art, which Riegl did not cover, tracing many elements of Chinese decoration back to the same tradition; the shared background helping to make the assimilation of Chinese motifs into Persian art after the Mongol invasion harmonious and productive.\n\nMany arabesque patterns disappear at (or \"under\" as it often appears to a viewer) a framing edge without ending, and thus can be regarded as infinitely extendable outside the space they actually occupy; this was certainly a distinctive feature of the Islamic form, though not without precedent. Most but not all foliage decoration in the preceding cultures terminated at the edge of the occupied space, although infinitely repeatable patterns in foliage are very common in the modern world in wallpaper and textiles.\n\nTypically, in earlier forms there is no attempt at realism; no particular species of plant is being imitated, and the forms are often botanically impossible or implausible. \"Leaf\" forms typically spring sideways from the stem, in what is often called a \"half-palmette\" form, named after its distant and very different looking ancestor in ancient Egyptian and Greek ornament. New stems spring from leaf-tips, a type often called honeysuckle, and the stems often have no tips, winding endlessly out of the space. The early Mshatta Facade is recognisably some sort of vine, with conventional leaves on the end of short stalks and bunches of grapes or berries, but later forms usually lack these. Flowers are rare until about 1500, after which they appear more often, especially in Ottoman art, and are often identifiable by species. In Ottoman art the large and feathery leaves called \"saz\" became very popular, and were elaborated in drawings showing just one or more large leaves. Eventually floral decoration mostly derived from Chinese styles, especially those of Chinese porcelain, replaces the arabesque in many types of work, such as pottery, textiles and miniatures.\n\nThe arabesques and geometric patterns of Islamic art are often said to arise from the Islamic view of the world (see above). The depiction of animals and people is generally discouraged, which explains the preference for abstract geometric patterns.\n\nThere are two modes to arabesque art. The first recalls the principles that govern the order of the world. These principles include the bare basics of what makes objects structurally sound and, by extension, beautiful (i.e. the angle and the fixed/static shapes that it creates—esp. the truss). In the first mode, each repeating geometric form has a built-in symbolism ascribed to it. For example, the square, with its four equilateral sides, is symbolic of the equally important elements of nature: earth, air, fire and water. Without any one of the four, the physical world, represented by a circle that inscribes the square, would collapse upon itself and cease to exist. The second mode is based upon the flowing nature of plant forms. This mode recalls the feminine nature of life giving. In addition, upon inspection of the many examples of Arabesque art, some would argue that there is in fact a third mode, the mode of Islamic calligraphy.\n\nInstead of recalling something related to the 'True Reality' (the reality of the spiritual world), Islam considers calligraphy a visible expression of the highest art of all; the art of the spoken word (the transmittal of thoughts and of history). In Islam, the most important document to be transmitted orally is the Qur'an. Proverbs and complete passages from the Qur'an can be seen today in Arabesque art. The coming together of these three forms creates the Arabesque, and this is a reflection of unity arising from diversity; a basic tenet of Islam.\n\nThe arabesque may be equally thought of as both art and science. The artwork is at the same time mathematically precise, aesthetically pleasing, and symbolic. Due to this duality of creation, the artistic part of this equation may be further subdivided into both secular and religious artwork. However, for many Muslims there is no distinction; all forms of art, the natural world, mathematics and science are seen to be creations of God and therefore reflections of the same thing: God's will expressed through his creation. In other words, man can discover the geometric forms that constitute the arabesque, but these forms always existed before as part of God's creation, as shown in this picture.\n\nThere is great similarity between arabesque artwork from very different geographic regions. In fact, the similarities are so pronounced that it is sometimes difficult for experts to tell where a given style of arabesque comes from. The reason for this is that the science and mathematics that are used to construct Arabesque artwork are universal. Therefore, for most Muslims, the best artwork that can be created by man for use in the Mosque is artwork that displays the underlying order and unity of nature. The order and unity of the material world, they believe, is a mere ghostly approximation of the spiritual world, which for many Muslims is the place where the only true reality exists. Discovered geometric forms, therefore, exemplify this perfect reality because God's creation has been obscured by the sins of man.\n\nMistakes in repetitions may be intentionally introduced as a show of humility by artists who believe only Allah can produce perfection, although this theory is disputed.\nArabesque art consists of a series of repeating geometric forms which are occasionally accompanied by calligraphy. Ettinghausen et al. describe the arabesque as a \"vegetal design consisting of full...and half palmettes [as] an unending continuous pattern...in which each leaf grows out of the tip of another.\" To the adherents of Islam, the Arabesque is symbolic of their united faith and the way in which traditional Islamic cultures view the world.\n\nThe term arabesque was first used in the West in Italian, where \"rabeschi\" was used in the 16th century as a term for \"pilaster ornaments featuring acanthus decoration\", specifically \"running scrolls\" that ran vertically up a panel or pilaster, rather than horizontally along a frieze. The book \"Opera nuova che insegna a le donne a cuscire … laqual e intitolata Esempio di raccammi\" (A New Work that Teaches Women how to Sew … Entitled \"Samples of Embroidery\"), published in Venice in 1530, includes \"groppi moreschi e rabeschi\", Moorish knots and arabesques.\n\nFrom there it spread to England, where Henry VIII owned, in an inventory of 1549, an agate cup with a \"fote and Couer of siluer and guilt enbossed with Rebeske worke\", and William Herne or Heron, Serjeant Painter from 1572 to 1580, was paid for painting Elizabeth I's barge with \"rebeske work\". Unfortunately the styles so described can only be guessed at, although the design by Hans Holbein for a covered cup for Jane Seymour in 1536 (see gallery) already has zones in both Islamic-derived arabesque/moresque style (see below) and classically derived acanthus volutes.\n\nAnother related term is moresque, meaning \"Moorish\"; Randle Cotgrave's \"A Dictionarie of the French and English Tongues\" of 1611 defines this as: \"a rude or anticke painting, or carving, wherin the feet and tayles of beasts, &c, are intermingled with, or made to resemble, a kind of wild leaves, &c.\" and \"arabesque\", in its earliest use cited in the OED (but as a French word), as \"Rebeske work; a small and curious flourishing\". In France \"arabesque\" first appears in 1546, and \"was first applied in the latter part of the 17th century\" to grotesque ornament, \"despite the classical origin of the latter\", especially if without human figures in it - a distinction still often made, but not consistently observed,\n\nOver the following centuries the three terms grotesque, moresque and arabesque were used largely interchangeably in English, French and German for styles of decoration derived at least as much from the European past as the Islamic world, with \"grotesque\" gradually acquiring its main modern meaning, related more to Gothic gargoyles and caricature than to either Pompeii-style Roman painting or Islamic patterns. Meanwhile, the word \"arabesque\" was now being applied to Islamic art itself, by 1851 at the latest, when John Ruskin uses it in \"The Stones of Venice\". Writers over the last decades have attempted to salvage meaningful distinctions between the words from the confused wreckage of historical sources.\n\nPeter Fuhring, a specialist in the history of ornament, says that (also in a French context): The ornament known as moresque in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries (but now more commonly called arabesque) is characterized by bifurcated scrolls composed of branches forming interlaced foliage patterns. These basic motifs gave rise to numerous variants, for example, where the branches, generally of a linear character, were turned into straps or bands. ... It is characteristic of the moresque, which is essentially a surface ornament, that it is impossible to locate the pattern's beginning or end. ... Originating in the Middle East, they were introduced to continental Europe via Italy and Spain ... Italian examples of this ornament, which was often used for bookbindings and embroidery, are known from as early as the late fifteenth century.\n\nFuhring notes that grotesques were \"confusingly called arabesques in eighteenth century France\", but in his terminology \"the major types of ornament that appear in French sixteenth century etchings and engraving... can be divided into two groups. The first includes ornaments adopted from antiquity: grotesques, architectural ornaments such as the orders, foliage scrolls and self-contained elements such as trophies, terms and vases. A second group, far smaller than the first, comprises modern ornaments: moresques, interlaced bands, strapwork, and elements such as cartouches...\", categories he goes on to discuss individually.\n\nThe moresque or arabesque style was especially popular and long-lived in the Western arts of the book: bookbindings decorated in gold tooling, borders for illustrations, and printer's ornaments for decorating empty spaces on the page. In this field the technique of gold tooling had also arrived in the 15th century from the Islamic world, and indeed much of the leather itself was imported from there. Small motifs in this style have continued to be used by conservative book designers up to the present day.\n\nAccording to Harold Osborne, in France, the \"characteristic development of the French arabesque combined bandwork deriving from the moresque with decorative acanthus foliage radiating from C-scrolls connected by short bars\". Apparently starting in embroidery, it then appears in garden design before being used in Northern Mannerist painted decorative schemes \"with a central medallion combined with acanthus and other forms\" by Simon Vouet and then Charles Lebrun who used \"scrolls of flat bandwork joined by horizontal bars and contrasting with ancanthus scrolls and palmette.\" More exuberant arabesque designs by Jean Bérain the Elder are an early \"intimation\" of the Rococo, which was to take the arabesque into three dimensions in reliefs.\n\nThe use of \"arabesque\" as an English noun first appears, in relation to painting, in William Beckford's novel \"Vathek\" in 1786.\nArabesque is also used as a term for complex freehand pen flourishes in drawing or other graphic media. The \"Grove Dictionary of Art\" will have none of this confusion, and says flatly: \"Over the centuries the word has been applied to a wide variety of winding and twining vegetal decoration in art and meandering themes in music, but it properly applies only to Islamic art\", so contradicting the definition of 1888 still found in the \"Oxford English Dictionary\": \"A species of mural or surface decoration in colour or low relief, composed in flowing lines of branches, leaves, and scroll-work fancifully intertwined. Also fig[uratively]. As used in Moorish and Arabic decorative art (from which, almost exclusively, it was known in the Middle Ages), representations of living creatures were excluded; but in the arabesques of Raphael, founded on the ancient Græco-Roman work of this kind, and in those of Renaissance decoration, human and animal figures, both natural and grotesque, as well as vases, armour, and objects of art, are freely introduced; to this the term is now usually applied, the other being distinguished as Moorish Arabesque, or Moresque.\"\n\nA major use of the arabesque style has been artistic printing, for example of book covers and page decoration. Repeating geometric patterns worked well with traditional printing, since they could be printed from metal type like letters if the type was placed together; as the designs have no specific connection to the meaning of a text, the type can be reused in many different editions of different works. Robert Granjon, a French printer of the sixteenth century, has been credited with the first truly interlocking arabesque printing, but other printers had used many other kinds of ornaments in the past. The idea was rapidly used by many other printers. After a period of disuse in the nineteenth century, when a more minimal page layout became popular with printers like Bodoni and Didot, the concept returned to popularity with the arrival of the Arts and Crafts movement, Many fine books from the period 1890-1960 have arabesque decorations, sometimes on paperback covers. Many digital serif fonts include arabesque pattern elements thought to be complementary to the mood of the font; they are also often sold as separate designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16499920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16499920", "title": "Barbadian National Heroes", "text": "Barbadian National Heroes\n\nBarbadian National Heroes are the designees of the Order of National Heroes Act, as passed by the Parliament of Barbados in 1998. The act formally recognised the stature of ten major figures in the history of Barbados.\n\nThe first National Heroes Day was celebrated on 28 April 1998, the centenary of the birth of Sir Grantley Adams.\n\nNational Heroes are styled as \"The Right Excellent\". The ten National Heroes are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40846635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40846635", "title": "Better Out Than In", "text": "Better Out Than In\n\nBetter Out Than In was a residency undertaken by pseudonymous graffiti artist and political activist Banksy in New York City during October 2013. Banksy unveiled at least one work of art daily, documenting it on both a dedicated website and an Instagram account. The majority of the works were stencil graffiti and chiefly political, a distinctive characteristic of Banksy. Other pieces and multimedia exhibits toyed with dark humor and satire.\n\nThe unpredictability of the show and Banksy's elusive nature stirred excitement amongst fans, while defacement from competing street artists and vandals became an imminent problem. While Banksy's works were inherently illegal, no official complaints were reported to the police; most property owners praised the art and some took measures to protect it. The month-long residency drew controversy amongst some locals for its more politically strong pieces, and received mixed reviews from critics. \n\nAn HBO documentary film covering this period and residency titled \"Banksy Does New York\" was released in 2014.\n\nOn 1 October 2013, Banksy announced on his website that he would be attempting to host a show in New York City for the entire month. This came after posters promoting an October event started showing up in Los Angeles.\n\nThe title \"Better Out Than In\" is a reference to a quote by impressionist Paul Cézanne, \"All pictures painted inside, in the studio, will never be as good as those done outside.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"The Village Voice\", Banksy said \"New York calls to graffiti writers like a dirty old lighthouse. We all want to prove ourselves here,\" and that he chose it for the high foot traffic and hiding places.\n\nThe works Banksy has included in \"Better Out Than In\" primarily consist of stencil graffiti, much of which are political in nature. His first installment, which he captioned \"the street is in play\", depicted a child reaching for a bottle of spray paint on a sign reading \"graffiti is a crime\". The sign was stolen and later replaced by Queens-based graffiti group Smart Crew with a new sign that read \"street art is a crime\". Like most of his other works, the piece has audio accompaniment that can be heard either on the website or by calling a toll-free 800 number.\n\nIn the East Village, Banksy's fifth work was housed in a delivery truck as a \"mobile garden,\" which included theatrical property showing a rainbow, waterfall, and butterflies. The following day Banksy posted a photo of a tracking device he found under the vehicle.\n\nBanksy's installments are located all across the five boroughs, with some being purely multimedia exhibits. On 6 October, as a way to have made an installment in Dumbo, Brooklyn, a primary arts district of the city, Banksy posted a video featuring the Walt Disney character Dumbo being shot down by Syrian rebels, the meaning behind which puzzled many.\n\nOn 9 October, Banksy unveiled one of the more elaborate and politically strong pieces of the series. It featured armed soldiers and horses spray-painted on a car and trailer in an empty lot in the Lower East Side. Instead of commentary about the work, the accompanying audio was that of a classified video from the July 12, 2007 Baghdad airstrike. After being dismantled, the car was towed away to prevent further defacement.\n\nDay 11 saw an elaborate political display questioning the \"casual cruelty\" of the meat industry. Entitled \"Sirens of the Lambs\", Banksy drove around a military-style cargo truck filled with squealing, stuffed animatronic livestock. The truck fittingly made its debut in Meatpacking District, Manhattan, but toured the rest of the city in the following weeks.\n\nOn 13 October, Banksy made headlines when it was revealed that the art an older man was selling outside Central Park was actually authentic, signed Banksy canvases, sold for only $60 each. Having not announced this beforehand, tourists and park goers were unaware of the value the paintings had, which the BBC estimated could be upwards of $32,000 each. Banksy posted a video on his website chronicling the surprise sale, which revealed that a total of seven paintings were sold for $420 taking.\n\nBanksy unveiled one of his most controversial pieces of the series on 15 October, with a depiction of the Lower Manhattan skyline featuring the former Twin Towers, with a burnt-orange chrysanthemum in place where one of the hijacked airplanes struck the North Tower. The silhouette appeared on the side of a building in TriBeCa, with an identical depiction along the Brooklyn Heights Promenade, facing the downtown skyline. The Brooklyn Heights piece was eventually buffed out by the city, requiring chemicals and a high-powered pressure washer. The removal followed a taunt Banksy had directed toward the city on his website. Meanwhile, the sister piece in TriBeCa served as a shrine, people placing flowers next to it, as well as a letter asking no one to touch the painting. Acrylic glass was eventually installed to protect the piece, before someone painted over it.\n\nBanksy extended his work beyond the canvas and city street with other political statements, including on 16 October, when he crafted a giant fiberglass sculpture of Ronald McDonald, with a real live Banksy assistant shining its shoes. It was unveiled in the Bronx but was moved outside of a different McDonald's restaurant across the city around lunch time for several days. The work criticized the \"heavy labor required to sustain the polished image of a mega-corporation\", as the narrator of the audio accompaniment put it.\n\nOn 18 October there was a pair of paintings that Banksy collaborated on with Os Gemeos depicting a single soldier amongst masked citizens and vice versa. \"The audio commentary Banksy provided suggests that this piece functions both as situational criticism of the art world as well as a tribute to the Occupy movement. Yet it also recognizes that the installation may be unsuccessful at actually advancing any agenda\".\n\nBanksy's second trip to the South Bronx was on 21 October and resulted in a piece depicting a child spray-painting the words \"Ghetto 4 Life\" on a wall, while a butler waited on him with a platter of spray paints. The work immediately drew a crowd from fans, despite angering many residents, who found the message offensive.\n\nThe Sphinx sculpture appeared on a worksite in Willets Point on 22 October, entitled \"Everything but the kitchen sphinx\", and was quickly swarmed by eager Banksy fans. The attention caught the workers interest, who were reportedly selling bricks for $100 each, and onlookers watched as it was loaded into a truck and taken away. The fate of this piece was heavily chronicled by the HBO documentary \"Banksy Does New York\" (2014). The piece was taken from its original site, kept in a garage and later appeared in the Art Miami New York modern art fair.\n\nThe 23rd installment was cancelled due to police activity, according to Banksy's official website, which stirred rumors that he had come under arrest. That same day, an outlined canvas with the caption \"Better Out Than In #AnonymousGuestbook\" appeared on a building in Red Hook. The idea of an open-canvas collaborative piece was presented to Banksy two weeks prior by a community art director. The story then led many to believe the \"anonymous guestbook\" was outlined by Banksy himself, however this was later debunked to have been the work of a group under the name Anonymous Guestbook.\n\n\"Waiting in Vain\" was the show's 24th installment. Located outside a strip club in Hell's Kitchen, it illustrated a man in a tuxedo holding flowers, presumably jilted by his date. After some of the club's entertainers posed in front of the piece, the owner had it carefully cut from the shutter gate before vandals could deface it. It is planned to go on permanent display inside the club.\n\nThe 25th piece came suitably Halloween-themed. Located on the Bowery, it exhibited a Grim Reaper riding a bumper car in circles to an elaborate light show, fog machine and Blue Öyster Cult's \"(Don't Fear) The Reaper.\" The accompanying audio guide offered a self-mocking interpretation, with Banksy stating that often \"the role of art is to remind us of our mortality,\" implying that with this mounted art show that goes on \"for so long we wish we were dead already.\" The site of the exhibit was once that of an antique shop, some remains of which were placed in a coffin that occupied the lot for months. This prompted other interpretations of the installation's message, paying homage to the \"ghosts of Bowry,\" as the antique store owner suggested.\n\nThe 27 October piece was a message on a wall in Greenpoint that read \"This site contains blocked messages.\" It made reference to an unpublished column Banksy had submitted to \"The New York Times\". The controversial essay criticized the city's decision in approving the One World Trade Center, which he described as \"vanilla\" and looking like \"something they would build in Canada.\" In what became his second reference to the September 11 attacks, Banksy argued the building was a betrayal to everyone who lost their lives that day, and that its blandness is a sign the terrorist won.\n\nThe final piece of the month-long series was a group of balloons that together read \"BANKSY!\", tied to the wall of a building alongside the Long Island Expressway in Queens. Banksy included the message \"Save 5pointz\" in the caption for the piece on his website, referring to 5 Pointz, a nearby outdoor art exhibit considered to be a focal point of such culture that had recently been approved by the New York City Department of City Planning to be demolished to make way for condominiums.\n\nMost of the works that make up the \"Better Out Than In\" series were defaced, some just hours after the piece was unveiled. At least one defacement was identified as done by a competing artist, OMAR NYC, who spray-painted over Banksy's red mylar balloon piece in Red Hook. OMAR NYC also defaced some of Banksy's work in May 2010.\n\nAs a result of the continued defacement, fans rushed to the sites of the installments as soon as they are announced. A group of men took advantage of this and threatened to deface a stencil painting of a beaver in East New York, charging money for people to take photographs. Some took matters into their own hands by guarding the works, others restoring them once defaced. In part because of the defacement, but also because of the great value of the artworks, property owners have also gone to extreme measures to protect the art. Some hired security guards, others covered the art with acrylic glass, and yet others installed metal roll-down gates.\n\nThe month-long show was widely publicized and covered by the media. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, while supporting the arts, criticized Banksy's work, calling him a vandal, contending that defacing property was not his definition of art.\n\nOn 17 October the \"New York Post\" wrote under the front-page headline \"Get Banksy!\" that police were pursuing Banksy, but noted the hunt is difficult because he has never been positively identified in public. In response Banksy posted an image of the front page on his website with the caption \"I don't read what i believe in the papers.\" The NYPD later denied they were actively looking for Banksy as no property owners had filed any formal complaints.\n\nBronx Borough President Rubén Díaz, Jr. called Banksy a \"modern-day Picasso\" and praised him for choosing to unveil his 16 October Ronald McDonald replica in the South Bronx. This came before Banksy's 21 October piece, which brought discontent to the President and other residents. The piece featured a child spray-painting the words \"Ghetto 4 Life\" on a wall. Díaz stated it reinforced \"outdated negative stereotypes,\" and defended that Banksy should become aware that graffiti art and culture originated in the Bronx. The owner of the graffitied wall and his partner, however, praised the work and its message, calling it \"beautiful\" and owning its preservation to the artist's fame.\n\nBanksy's op-ed article about One World Trade Center, posted on his website on 27 October, came as an insult to many across the city. Former FDNY Deputy Chief Jim Riches wrote that it was a \"disgrace to New York City and all the families who lost loved ones on 9/11.\" Sally Regenhard, a leading voice for families of 11 September victims, expressed concerns about Banksy's 15 October depiction of the Twin Towers in TriBeCa, saying the piece was \"horrific\" and that the placed flower looked more like an explosion. A Century 21 department store near Ground Zero had planned to show Banksy's work on 29 October, but cancelled due to the controversy.\n\nBanksy's \"Better Out Than In\" series has received mixed reviews. Many fans raved over his work, flocking to each site everyday of the show.\n\n\"New York\" magazine art critic Jerry Saltz wrote Banksy's well-executed work stood out from other graffiti, but that the meaning behind the pieces aren't as deep as fans like to believe. \"No other graffiti artist has a PR machine remotely like Banksy's,\" he writes, arguing Banksy is more of a \"promo man\" than an artist.\n\nWill Ellsworth-Jones, author of \"Banksy: The Man Behind the Wall\" writes that \"Better Out Than In\" shows Banksy's range of mediums has grown to incorporate multi-media and performance-based works. He pointed out the \"wonderful commentary on money and art\" displayed with hiring an anonymous salesman to sell Banksy paintings in Central Park for $60.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38468305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38468305", "title": "Blonde versus brunette rivalry", "text": "Blonde versus brunette rivalry\n\nOne aspect of how women are portrayed in popular culture is a purported rivalry between blondes and brunettes. The rivalry is a cultural phenomenon found in many countries that have significant populations of both blondes and brunettes. In the United States, evidence of a blonde versus brunette rivalry is common in the popular media and especially in television and film.\n\nAn example of a competitive event are the blonde vs. brunette chess matches that began in 2011 as part of the World Chess Tournament held in Moscow. The match was hosted by the Botvinnik Central Chess Club and featured two teams of young girls, blondes dressed in light colors and brunettes dressed in dark colors. This division is a play on the fact that chess is a game played using light and dark pieces. All of the contestants had to prove a degree of expertise to participate. The 2011 match, which was the first in the series, was won by the brunettes. The 2012 re-match was won by the blondes who defeated the brunettes, 36.5-24.5. A third blonde vs. brunette chess match, also held at the Central Chess Club on April 1, 2013, resulted in a tie score.\n\nThe girls were motivated, exchanging punches round after round, but when the dust has cleared the overall score was a 50:50 tie! The claim of supremacy will be postponed until the next meeting.\"\n\nThe existence of the blonde vs. brunette rivalry in American society dates back to at least 1875 when the first female professional baseball players were assigned to teams according to their hair color. Baseball historian John Thorn notes that blonde and brunette baseball teams barnstormed the country in the late 1800s. A 1924 newspaper article referenced a female swimming meet and listed, among the many events, a \"blonde vs. brunette\" relay race, that was \"Won by the blondes.\" A more contemporary example is the gridiron football game called blondes vs. brunettes powderpuff football, a charity event that raises money for the Alzheimer's Association. The annual contests were started in the fall of 2005, in Washington D.C. The games have received considerable publicity to include feature articles in \"The Washington Post\" and are now played in 16 cities around the United States.\n\nIn some cases, blondes and brunettes on the same team may compete against each other. Anson Dorrance the women’s soccer coach at the University of North Carolina is known for dividing his team into blondes and brunettes and then having them compete against each other. Losers have been forced to stand in front of the goal facing the rear of the net while the winners take penalty shots against their posteriors. Dorrance, in his years of coaching female athletes, claims to have learned that women are motivated differently from males and that his “blondes vs. brunettes drill” worked with his female team because it was a “matter of pride.” \n\nThe most enduring blonde vs. brunette rivalry in American culture may exist in the comic book industry where blonde Betty Cooper and brunette Veronica Lodge have been engaged in a mostly friendly competition for over 70 years. The teenage girls form two-thirds of a blonde vs. brunette love triangle that is completed by their high school classmate and object of their affection, Archie Andrews. As Archie’s next door neighbor in the fictional town of Riverdale, the blonde and blue-eyed Betty Cooper is portrayed in the comic book series as a wholesome, popular, middle class girl. Her high school friend and chief competitor for Archie's affection is the vain, spoiled, upper class brunette Veronica Lodge. Despite their rivalry they remain good friends. Other comics have used a similar construct where two girls compete for the affections of a young man and the blonde girl is the \"good girl, while her brunette rival is the bad girl.\" The comic book industry's blonde vs. brunette rivalry over a male has been replicated in other forms of media, including television.\nIn a November 16, 2011 article titled \"Blondes vs. Brunettes: TV Shows with Betty and Veronica-Style Love Triangles\", media critic Tucker Cummings cited several TV shows that featured a \"classic war between blonde and brunette love interests.\" Typically, she wrote, \"... the blonde (is) stable, and typifies the 'girl next door,' while (the) ... brunette, is haughty, and a bit more exotic.\" Shows cited by Cummings that feature blondes and brunettes competing for a man include: \"The Office\" (where lighter haired Pam Beesly competes with brunette Karen Filipelli for the attention of Jim Halpert), \"Suits\" (where blonde Jenny Griffith competes with brunette Rachel Zane for the attention of Mike Ross), and \"Dexter\" (where blonde Rita Bennent and brunette Lila West compete for the affections of Dexter Morgan, the main character).\n\n\"Three's Company\", an ABC sitcom that ran from 1977-1984 also featured a blonde and brunette triangle. The blonde, Chrissy Snow, was played by Suzanne Somers and the brunette, Janet Wood, was played by Joyce DeWitt. The man in the middle, Jack Tripper, was played by John Ritter. Somers and DeWitt were continually faced with media stories that described both an on and off-screen \"rivalry\" between the two co-stars. Both women repeatedly denied the stories and attempted to dispel \"...the myth that women, especially blondes and brunettes, can’t get along in Hollywood.\"\n\nA different perspective on the Hollywood blonde vs. brunette rivalry was offered up by the dark-haired Teri Hatcher in a 1994 interview while she was starring in , \"I love that there are no blondes on our show. You see so many shows with so many blondes, and isn't everyone\nsick of that?\"\n\nAt the same time ABC was running the \"Three's Company\" sitcom, it was also running \"Dynasty\", a night time soap opera. The show starred John Forsythe as Blake Carrington, an oil tycoon embroiled in a love triangle that featured his blonde wife Krystle Carrington (Linda Evans) and his ex-wife, brunette Alexis Carrington Colby (Joan Collins). During the show's 10-year run the women had a number of fights. The spectacle of two middle aged woman engaged in a catfight during prime time boosted the show's ratings considerably. Feminist author and cultural critic Susan J. Douglas believed that the shows emphasis on the male lead character, highlighted by women fighting over him, confirmed the traditional patriarchal role of men in society. Notwithstanding, Douglas and other feminists were not only huge fans of the show but were captivated by the sight of two women engaged in a catfight. Douglas even suggested that in popular culture, the \"purest\" form of a catfight was between a blonde and a brunette.\"Dynasty upped the ante ... On one side was the blonde stay at home Krystal Carrington ... in the other corner was the most delicious bitch ever seen on television, the dark haired, scheming, career vixen, Alexis Carrington Colby ... Krystal just wanted to make her husband happy; Alexis wanted to control the world. How could you not love a catfight between these two?\"\n\nDuring \"Dynasty\"s run, Collins co-hosted \"Blondes vs. Brunettes\" for ABC. The show featured a number of skits that gently poked fun at popular culture's blonde vs. brunette rivalry. The final skit featured Collins and co-host Morgan Fairchild in their elderly years offering a toast to each other.\n\nPitting blondes and brunettes against each other, especially as romantic rivals, is a Hollywood technique that extends back to at least the early 1930s. In a 1932 interview with an Australian newspaper, Hollywood director Dorothy Arzner stated that lead women and women in supporting roles must always have different hair color to accentuate the contrasting beauty of each type. Arzner also stated that blondes were usually cast as the fickle types while brunettes are cast as the more serious and emotional types. Using hair color in the casting process, has sometimes resulted in Hollywood altering versions of established characters found in other media forms. As an example, in the 1936 Flash Gordon serial, blonde Jean Rogers was cast as Dale Arden who had been portrayed as a brunette in the Flash Gordon comic strips. However, since the producers had already cast brunette Priscilla Lawson as Dale Arden's nemesis, Princess Aura, the decision was made to cast a blonde in the role of Arden to help the audience differentiate between the two women.\n\nArraying blondes against brunettes, is not unique to the American film industry. The British film company Hammer Films produced a 1967 movie that took the blonde vs. brunette concept to an extreme. The film \"Slave Girls\" (also released under the title \"Prehistoric Women\") starred Martine Beswick in the role of Kari, the queen of a tribe of brunettes who had enslaved a tribe of blondes. Their existence was disrupted by the arrival of a male explorer who discovered the two tribes by means of a time portal. Witnessing the brunette’s cruel treatment of the blondes, he rejected Beswick's advances and was subsequently enslaved himself. He soon discovered a group of men who were also held in bondage. He eventually led a rebellion where the blondes overwhelmed the brunettes, Beswick was killed, and the explorer managed to escape back through the portal. The production has been described as one of the most bizarre films ever released.\n\n\"An eccentric and unloved Hammer film that uses a blondes vs. brunettes scenario.\" -- \"The Hammer Vault\"\n\n\"Idiotic Hammer Film in which the Great White Hunter stumbles into a lost Amazon civilization where blondes have been enslaved by brunettes. Honest! Nevertheless it has developed a cult following due to Beswick’s commanding, sensual performance as the tribe’s leader.\" -- \"Leonard Maltin's 2010 Movie Guide\"\n\nThe French reality TV program \"\" featured 10 young bikini-clad women wrestling each other in oil, divided into teams of blondes and brunettes.\n\nAlthough many countries have used the blonde vs. brunette construct in the media and entertainment industries, the French daily newspaper \"Le Monde\" believes that the phenomenon is more prevalent in the United States. In a 2012 article, \"Le Monde\" argued that American TV has almost, without exception, characterized blonde women as having the positive values of purity, goodness, and sincerity, frequently at the expense of their brunette counterparts. The article provided several examples:\nThe article argues that in recent years, the American TV industry has begun to move away from the positive blonde stereotype and has begun to portray brunettes in a more favorable manner.\nOther notable movies and TV shows that used an obvious blonde vs. brunette setup or was perceived as using such by the media include:\n\n\n\nA number of studies have been conducted over the years to measure society’s attitude toward blondes and brunettes.\nMany of the studies have shown that men, especially those of European descent, find blonde women more attractive than brunettes, redheads, or women of other races who had darker hair, eyes, or complexion. Other studies have supported the findings by examining behavior shown in public settings. As an example, a Cornell University study showed that blonde waitresses receive larger tips than brunettes, even when controlling for other variables such as age, breast size, height and weight.\n\nIn a 2012 interview with NBC News, Dr. Lisa Walker, Sociology Department Chair at the University of North Carolina said that hair colour \"absolutely\" plays a role in the way people are treated and claimed that numerous studies had shown that blonde women were paid higher salaries than other women.\n\n\"Most people would tell you, if asked, that it doesn't matter what your hair colour is. What style your hair is in. They would say whatever is best for your face,\" explained Walker. \"But from a very young age these stereotypes appear. In cartoons and children's programming, we see the way women are portrayed based on their hair. The associations continue through childhood into adulthood.”\n\nThe local NBC news affiliate in Charlotte tested Walker’s theory by asking a natural blonde to walk around the Charlotte business area, drop a scarf and keep going. The volunteer did it 20 times as a blonde and then 20 times wearing a brunette wig. As a blonde, every time she dropped the scarf a bystander picked it up for her, but when wearing a dark haired wig, people simply mentioned that the scarf was dropped or ignored it altogether.\n\nA well publicised 2011 University of Westminster study evaluated how men perceived women who entered a London nightclub as a blonde or a brunette. The study, published in the \"Scandinavian Journal of Psychology\", used the same woman and had her dye her hair a different colour for each visit. After spending some time in the club, she departed and then researchers entered to club and interviewed the men who had engaged her in conversation. The results showed that, as a blonde, she was more likely to be approached for conversation than as a brunette. However, when the researchers interviewed the men who spoke to her, the men rated her more intelligent and attractive as a brunette than as a blonde. Many news organizations covered the story as evidence that blondes were not preferred over brunettes.\n\nIn March 2016 a study by the Ohio State University was published in the \"Economics Bulletin\". According to Jay Zagorsky, author of the study, the results show that: \"the average IQ of blondes was actually slightly higher than those with other hair colors, but that finding isn’t statistically significant.\" He adds:\"I don’t think you can say with certainty that blondes are smarter than others, but you can definitely say they are not any dumber.\" \n\nIn Russia, according to a 2011 survey by the Southern Federal University, brunettes are considered more attractive than blondes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1460996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1460996", "title": "Casa de Isla Negra", "text": "Casa de Isla Negra\n\nCasa de Isla Negra was one of Pablo Neruda's three houses in Chile. It is located at Isla Negra, a coastal area of El Quisco commune, located about 45 km south of Valparaíso and 96 km west of Santiago. It was his favorite house and where he and his third wife, Matilde Urrutia, spent the majority of their time in Chile. Neruda, a lover of the sea and all things maritime, built the home to resemble a ship with low ceilings, creaking wood floors, and narrow passageways. A passionate collector, every room has a different collection of bottles, ship figureheads, maps, ships in bottles, and an impressive array of shells, which are located in their own \"Under the Sea\" room.\n\nNeruda fell in love with the house upon visiting the area and requested an advance from his original publisher Carlos George-Nascimento, who provided him with the money to effect the purchase. Neruda originally intended the house to be used as a meeting point for writers, and dedicated the place to Nascimento as a token of his gratitude.\n\nNeruda and Urrutia are buried there.\n\nIn English, \"Isla Negra\" means \"Black Island,\" which refers to a rock outcropping nearby, however Isla Negra is not, in fact, an island. During the winter, the area is subject to heavy rains, which inspired Neruda to write his \"Oda a la Tormenta\" (\"Ode to the Storm\"). Isla Negra was also Neruda's inspiration for many other poems.\n\nThe house is now a writer's home museum, managed by the Pablo Neruda Foundation, and has become a popular tourist destination.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20319000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20319000", "title": "Deep End (short story)", "text": "Deep End (short story)\n\n\"Deep End\" is a short story written in 1961 by British author J. G. Ballard. It first appeared in the May 1961 edition of \"New Worlds\" (Volume 36, Number 106) and then in the 1962 collection \"The Voices of Time and Other Stories\" followed by \"\" in 2006. The tale is typical of Ballard's dystopian science fiction.\n\nIn either a near-future or alternate present reality, the Earth lies nearly desolate after extensive overuse of its resources in order to colonise other planets. The oceans had undergone 'oxygen mining' to electrolytically provide oxygen for the atmospheres for the new planets, and in doing so had left only the hydrogen extract from the water, which escaped the Earth and stripped the Earth's hospitable atmosphere to about a mile high, and ensuring the extinction of most life. As a result, the remaining inhabitants that have not emigrated are forced to live on the drained ocean floors, and have become nocturnal so as to avoid the scorching heat and radiation of the Sun during the day. The last orbiting launch pads are falling out of the sky to the salt dunes and corals towers that were once the ocean bed, and after the last have fallen, the Earth is truly abandoned.\n\nThe two central characters are Holliday and Granger, who live in a ‘town‘ near the Bermuda archipelago. Holliday is of unspecified age (though it is said he is younger than fifty). He decides not to migrate on one of the last voyages to Mars, and instead decides to remain on Earth with Granger, an older man who was once a marine biologist decades ago when there was still some form of sea left on the planet. Holliday comes to terms with the fact that he and Granger may be the only two people left on Earth in ten years time (the remaining others being elderly), but he cannot shake his urge to stay, and watch over what remains of the Earth's life before its inevitable extinction. \n\nOne day Holliday and Granger are in a saloon fittingly called the Neptune, when they see the crash of one of the decadent launch pads falling from the sky. They decide to visit the site, a nexus of saline pools and the only remnants of the Atlantic ocean - now named Lake Atlantic. Whilst inspecting the large wreckage of the launch station, they come across a Dogfish struggling in the shallow waters. Granger fails to see any importance in it, but Holliday immediately becomes attached to it, and using his salt-plough builds it a deeper pool to live in comfortably. When Granger asks of his fascination, Holliday explains that the shark is like an image of themselves staying behind and equates the situation with primordial evolution. Holliday vows to look after the shark, and what he considers to be the epitome of remaining life on the planet.\n\nWhilst bringing the shark food the next day, they come across the pool drained and the shark dying after being tormented by young hoodlums before they leave Earth. Granger tries to comfort an enraged and disturbed Holliday and suggests that he stuff the dead fish to keep with him. Holliday reacts angrily to this, replying: “Have it stuffed? Are you crazy? Do you think I want to make a dummy of myself, fill my own head with straw?”.\n\nThe story ends with Holliday’s disillusionment with what he considers the true death of the planet.\n"}
{"id": "804964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804964", "title": "Dehumanization", "text": "Dehumanization\n\nDehumanization or an act thereof can describe a behavior or process that undermines individuality of and in others. Behaviorally, dehumanization describes a disposition towards others that debases the others' individuality as either an \"individual\" species or an \"individual\" object, e.g. someone who acts inhumanely towards humans. As a process, it may be understood as the opposite of personification, a figure of speech in which inanimate objects or abstractions are endowed with human qualities; dehumanization then is the disendowment of these same qualities or a reduction to abstraction, e.g. \"Technology revolutions cause the dehumanization of labor markets to the point of antiquation.\"\n\nIn almost all contexts, dehumanization is used pejoratively along a disruption of social norms, with the former applying to the actor(s) of behavioral dehumanization and the latter applying to the action(s) or processes of dehumanization. As social norms define what humane behavior is, reflexively these same social norms define what human behavior is not, or what is inhumane. Dehumanization differs from inhumane behaviors or processes in its breadth to include the emergence of new competing social norms. This emergence then is the action of dehumanization until the old norms lose out to the competing new norms, which will then redefine the action of dehumanization. If the new norms lose acceptance then the action remains one of dehumanization and its severity is comparative to past examples throughout history. However, dehumanization's definition remains in a reflexive state of a type-token ambiguity relative to both scales individual and societal.\n\nBiologically, dehumanization can be described as an introduced species marginalizing the human species or an introduced person/process that debases other persons inhumanely.\n\nIn political science and jurisprudence, the act of dehumanization is the inferential alienation of human rights or denaturalization of natural rights, a definition contingent upon presiding international law rather than social norms limited by human geography. In this context, specialty within species need not apply to constitute global citizenship or its inalienable rights; these both are inherit by human genome.\n\nIt is theorized to take on two forms: \"animalistic dehumanization\", which is employed on a largely intergroup basis, and \"mechanistic dehumanization\", which is employed on a largely interpersonal basis. Dehumanization can occur discursively (e.g., idiomatic language that likens certain human beings to non-human animals, verbal abuse, erasing one's voice from discourse), symbolically (e.g., imagery), or physically (e.g., chattel slavery, physical abuse, refusing eye contact). Dehumanization often ignores the target's individuality (i.e., the creative and interesting aspects of their personality) and can hinder one from feeling empathy or properly understanding a stigmatized group of people.\n\nDehumanization may be carried out by a social institution (such as a state, school, or family), interpersonally, or even within the self. Dehumanization can be unintentional, especially on the part of individuals, as with some types of \"de facto\" racism. State-organized dehumanization has historically been directed against perceived political, racial, ethnic, national, or religious minority groups. Other minoritized and marginalized individuals and groups (based on sexual orientation, gender, disability, class, or some other organizing principle) are also susceptible to various forms of dehumanization. The concept of dehumanization has received empirical attention in the psychological literature. It is conceptually related to infrahumanization, delegitimization, moral exclusion, and objectification. Dehumanization occurs across several domains; is facilitated by status, power, and social connection; and results in behaviors like exclusion, violence, and support for violence against others.\n\n“Dehumanisation is viewed as a central component to intergroup violence because it is frequently the most important precursor to moral exclusion, the process by which stigmatized groups are placed outside the boundary in which moral values, rules, and considerations of fairness apply.”\n\nDavid Livingstone Smith, director and founder of The Human Nature Project at the University of New England, argues that historically, human beings have been dehumanizing one another for thousands of years.\n\nIn Herbert Kelman's work on dehumanization, humanness has two features: \"identity\" (i.e., a perception of the person \"as an individual, independent and distinguishable from others, capable of making choices\") and \"community\" (i.e., a perception of the person as \"part of an interconnected network of individuals who care for each other\"). When a target's agency and community embeddedness are denied, they no longer elicit compassion or other moral responses, and may suffer violence as a result.\n\nIn Nick Haslam's review of dehumanization, he differentiates between uniquely human (UH) characteristics, which distinguish humans from non-human animals, and human nature (HN), characteristics that are typical of or central to human beings. His model suggests that different types of dehumanization arise from the denial of one sense of humanness or the other. Language, higher order cognition, refined emotions, civility, and morality are uniquely human characteristics (i.e., traits humans have that non-human animals do not). Cognitive flexibility, emotionality, vital agency, and warmth are central to human nature. Characteristics of human nature are perceived to be widely shared among groups (i.e., every human has these traits), while uniquely human characteristics (e.g., civility, morality) are thought to vary between groups.\n\nAccording to Haslam, the animalistic form of dehumanization occurs when uniquely human characteristics (e.g., refinement, moral sensibility) are denied to an outgroup. People that suffer animalistic dehumanization are seen as amoral, unintelligent, and lacking self-control, and they are likened to animals. This has happened to Jewish people during The Holocaust, and indigenous people subject to colonization and slavery. While usually employed on an intergroup basis, animalistic dehumanization can occur on an interpersonal basis as well.\n\nThe mechanistic form occurs when features of human nature (e.g., cognitive flexibility, warmth, agency) are denied to targets. Targets of mechanistic dehumanization are seen as cold, rigid, interchangeable, lacking agency, and likened to machines or objects. Mechanistic dehumanization is usually employed on an interpersonal basis (e.g., when a person is seen as a means to another's end).\n\nSeveral lines of psychological research relate to the concept of dehumanization. Infrahumanization suggests that individuals think of and treat outgroup members as \"less human\" and more like animals; while Irenaus Eibl-Eibesfeld uses the term \"pseudo-speciation\", a term that he borrowed from the psychoanalyst Erik Erikson, to imply that the dehumanized person or persons are being regarded as not members of the human species. Specifically, individuals associate secondary emotions (which are seen as uniquely human) more with the ingroup than with the outgroup. Primary emotions (those that are experienced by all sentient beings, both humans and other animals) and are found to be more associated with the outgroup. Dehumanization is intrinsically connected with violence. Often, one cannot do serious injury to another without first dehumanizing him or her in one's mind (as a form of rationalization.) Military training is, among other things, a systematic desensitization and dehumanization of the enemy, and servicemen and women may find it psychologically necessary to refer to the enemy as animal or other non-human beings. Lt. Col. Dave Grossman has shown that without such desensitization it would be difficult, if not impossible for someone to kill another human, even in combat or under threat to their own lives.\n\nDelegitimization is the \"categorization of groups into extreme negative social categories which are excluded from human groups that are considered as acting within the limits of acceptable norms and/or values.\"\n\nMoral exclusion occurs when outgroups are subject to a different set of moral values, rules, and fairness than are used in social relations with ingroup members. When individuals dehumanize others, they no longer experience distress when they treat them poorly. Moral exclusion is used to explain extreme behaviors like genocide, harsh immigration policies, and eugenics, but can also happen on a more regular, everyday discriminatory level. In laboratory studies, people who are portrayed as lacking human qualities have been found to be treated in a particularly harsh and violent manner.\n\nMartha Nussbaum (1999) identified seven components of objectification: \"instrumentality\", \"denial of autonomy\", \"inertness\", \"fungibility\", \"violability\", \"ownership\", and \"denial of subjectivity\".\n\nIn Psychology higher-order cognitive processes like social cognition may occur between a human and human, or human and non-human, human and object. The assigning that occurs in social cognition suggests a non-human target can have projected internal life, or conscious emotional and cognitive experiences. Mental states projected onto objects and non-human forms of life can occur without intention. Studies by Heberlein, Adolphs, Tranel & Damasio, Heberlein AS, Adolphs R, Tranel D, Damasio H. Cortical regions for judgments of emotions and personality traits from point-light walkers explore the constants of biological motion perception within areas of the human brain, where participants would infer intent among objects which do not have any emotion or cognitions. It is also possible for subjects to anthropomorphize a spectrum of inanimate objects and non-human life forms. In children there is a common pattern of projecting the imaginary other, both humanlike and not, and a child is able to interact with the imaginary other without much effort as if the projected other exists. With the ease of anthropomorphic projection, children's lack of social cognition unto human counterparts is surprising. Dehumanized perception often means a cognitive bias experienced through lack of consideration for thoughts, feelings, and general mental contents of a social target's cognition. This dehumanized perception can occur when the target has elicited disgust or further negative responses when in contact with the dehumanizing subject. Humans seen as having certain lower social standings such as people suffering from addictions and homeless persons are often perceived as being low in cognitive warmth and low in social competency reliability. This often elicits more frequent disgust compared to certain higher social standings when projected cognitions by the dehumanizing subject. Humans can suddenly consider the mental cognitions of those persons who experience emotions of a social variety, linking in-groups of positive social figures to pride, connecting in-groups of wealthy and the upper class feelings of envy, and experiencing pity towards in-groups of the disabled and the elderly. Through a study by Fiske, Cuddy, & Glick in 2007, a stereotype content model showed that social targets such as the elderly and wealthy were trustworthy, friendly, and of capable ability due to perceived competence and warmth. However, in-groups of the disabled, poor, persons with addictions, and immigrants were recorded as disgust-inducing due to projected low warmth and incompetence.\n\nDehumanized perception has been indicated to occur when a subject experiences low frequencies of activation within their social cognition neural network. This includes areas of neural networking such as the superior temporal sulcus and the medial prefrontal cortex. A study by Frith & Frith in 2001 suggests the criticality of social interaction within a neural network has tendencies for subjects to dehumanize those seen as disgust-inducing leading to social disengagement. Tasks involving social cognition typically activate the neural network responsible for subjective projections of disgust-inducing perceptions and patterns of dehumanization. \"Besides manipulations of target persons, manipulations of social goals validate this prediction: Inferring preference, a mental-state inference, significantly increases MPFC and STS activity to these otherwise dehumanized targets.\" A 2007 study by Harris, McClure, van den Bos, Cohen & Fiske suggest a subject's mental reliability towards dehumanizing social cognition due to the decrease of neural activity towards the projected target, replicating across stimuli and contexts.\n\nWhile social distance from the outgroup target is a necessary condition for dehumanization, some research suggests that it is not sufficient. Psychological research has identified high status, power, and social connection as additional factors that influence whether dehumanization will occur. If being an outgroup member was all that was required to be dehumanized, dehumanization would be far more prevalent. However, only members of high status groups associate humanity more with ingroup than the outgroup. Members of low status groups exhibit no differences in associations with humanity. Having high status makes one more likely to dehumanize others. Low status groups are more associated with human nature traits (warmth, emotionality) than uniquely human traits, implying that they are closer to animals than humans because these traits are typical of humans but can be seen in other species. In addition, another line of work found that individuals in a position of power were more likely to objectify their subordinates, treating them as a means to one's own end rather than focusing on their essentially human qualities. Finally, social connection, thinking about a close other or being in the actual presence of a close other, enables dehumanization by reducing attribution of human mental states, increasing support for treating targets like animals, and increasing willingness to endorse harsh interrogation tactics. This is surprising because social connection has documented benefits for personal health and well-being but appears to impair intergroup relations.\n\nNeuroimaging studies have discovered that the medial prefrontal cortex—a brain region distinctively involved in attributing mental states to others—shows diminished activation to extremely dehumanized targets (i.e., those rated, according to the stereotype content model, as low-warmth and low-competence, such as drug addicts or homeless people).\n\nDehumanization often occurs as a result of conflict in an intergroup context. Ethnic and racial others are often represented as animals in popular culture and scholarship. There is evidence that this representation persists in the American context with African Americans implicitly associated with apes. To the extent that an individual has this dehumanizing implicit association, they are more likely to support violence against African Americans (e.g., jury decisions to execute defendants). Historically, dehumanization is frequently connected to genocidal conflicts in that ideologies before and during the conflict link victims to rodents/vermin. Immigrants are also dehumanized in this manner. In the 1900s, the Australian Constitution and British Government partook in an Act to federate the Australian states. Section 51 (xxvi) and 127 were two provisions that dehumanised Aboriginals.\n51. The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to:\n(xxvi) The people of any race, other than the Aboriginal people in any state, for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws. \n127. In reckoning the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth, or of a state or other part of the Commonwealth, Aboriginal natives shall not be counted.\nIn 1902 the Commonwealth Franchise Act was passed, this categorically denied Aboriginals from the right to vote. Indigenous Australians were not allowed social security benefits e.g. Aged pensions and maternity allowances. However, these benefits were provided to other non-Indigenous Australians by the Commonwealth Government. Aboriginals in rural areas were discriminated and controlled as to where and how they could marry, work, live, and their movements were restricted.\n\nFredrickson and Roberts argued that the sexual objectification of women extends beyond pornography (which emphasizes women's bodies over their uniquely human mental and emotional characteristics) to society generally. There is a normative emphasis on female appearance that causes women to take a third-person perspective on their bodies. The psychological distance women may feel from their bodies might cause them to dehumanize themselves. Some research has indicated that women and men exhibit a \"sexual body part recognition bias\", in which women's sexual body parts are better recognized when presented in isolation than in the context of their entire bodies, whereas men's sexual body parts are better recognized in the context of their entire bodies than in isolation. Men who dehumanize women as either animals or objects are more liable to rape and sexually harass women and display more negative attitudes toward female rape victims.\n\nSociologists and historians often view dehumanization as essential to war. Governments sometimes represent \"enemy\" civilians or soldiers as less than human so that voters will be more likely to support a war they may otherwise consider mass murder. Dictatorships use the same process to prevent opposition by citizens. Such efforts often depend on preexisting racist, sectarian, or otherwise biased beliefs, which governments play upon through various types of media, presenting \"enemies\" as barbaric, as undeserving of rights, and as threats to the nation. Alternatively, states sometimes present an enemy government or way of life as barbaric and its citizens as childlike and incapable of managing their own affairs. Such arguments have been used as a pretext for colonialism.\n\nThe Holocaust during World War II and the Rwandan Genocide have both been cited as atrocities facilitated by a government sanctioned dehumanization of its citizens. In terms of the Holocaust, government proliferated propaganda created a culture of dehumanization of the Jewish population. Crimes like lynching (especially in the United States) are often thought of as the result of popular bigotry and government apathy.\n\nAnthropologists Ashley Montagu and Floyd Matson famously wrote that dehumanization might well be considered \"the fifth horseman of the apocalypse\" because of the inestimable damage it has dealt to society. When people become things, the logic follows, they become dispensable, and any atrocity can be justified.\n\nDehumanization can be seen outside of overtly violent conflicts, as in political debates where opponents are presented as collectively stupid or inherently evil. Such \"good-versus-evil\" claims help end substantive debate (see also thought-terminating cliché).\n\nNon-state actors—terrorists in particular—have also resorted to dehumanization to further their cause and assuage pangs of guilt. The 1960s terrorist group Weather Underground had advocated violence against any authority figure, and used the \"police are pigs\" idea to convince members that they were not harming human beings, but simply killing wild animals. Likewise, rhetoric statements such as \"terrorists are just scum\", is an act of dehumanization.\n\nA study investigating racialized law enforcement violence is using virtual simulators to investigate \"shoot or don't shoot\" responses. The studies conducted that participants' responses were affected by racial bias. When the simulator presented an armed Black man, participants shot faster and more accurately compared to an armed White man. In response to the \"don't shoot\", command of an unarmed Black man participant's reaction time was slower and less accurate compared to an unarmed White man. The Center of Disease Control statistics on law enforcement killings between 1999 and 2011 showed that American youth of African ancestry between the ages of 15 and 19 are 2.8 times more likely to be killed by law enforcement than the national average of all races and age groups. A study conducted with predominately White female undergraduates as well as predominately White male law enforcement found that participants overestimated the age of American children of African ancestry by 4.59 years, translating to boys of thirteen and a half years of age would be misperceived as legal adults. Annually, 250,000 children are processed through to adult correctional facilities; this is at the impairment of their physical and mental health. In comparison to children at juvenile facilities, children sentenced as adults are, five times as likely to be sexually assaulted, twice as likely to be assaulted by a correctional officer, and eight times as likely to commit suicide. Implied dehumanization estimated the inclination of excessive force used by law enforcement against American suspect of African ancestry compared to other races. The work of Herbert Kelman, \"Violence without moral restraint: Reflections on the dehumanization of victims and victimizes\", illustrates how the above dehumanization of Americans with African ancestry is occurring. The apprehension towards murdering human beings is so overwhelming that the victim must be removed from their human status if systematic murdering is to occur. The victims are then dehumanized by placing them \"outside the boundary in which moral values, rules, and considerations of fairness apply\", the principle of mortality is no longer applicable. To establish others as entirely human, signify the sorrow from their death, despite racial background, as well as our individual relationship with the person. When referring to identity, the death is individualized; when referring to community, the death is experienced personally. The involvement of the bureaucratic apparatus is one of dehumanization.\n\nIn the United States of America, Americans of African ancestry were dehumanised via the classification of being deemed as a primate, not a human. The United States of America Constitution that took place in 1787 stated when collecting census data \"all other persons\" in reference to enslaved Africans will be counted as three-fifths of a human being. In the 1990s reportedly California State Police classified incidents involving young men of African ancestry as no humans involved. A California police officer who was also involved in the Rodney King beating described a dispute between an American couple with African ancestry as \"something right out of gorillas in the mist\". Franz Boas and Charles Darwin hypothesized that there may be an evolution process among primates. Monkeys and apes were least evolved, then savage and/ or deformed anthropoids which referred to people of African ancestry, to Caucasians as most evolved.\n\nRelatively recent history has seen the relationship between dehumanization and science result in unethical scientific research. The Tuskegee syphilis experiment and the Nazi human experimentation on Jewish people are two such examples. In the former, Africans Americans with syphilis were recruited to participate in a study about the course of the disease. Even when treatment and a cure were eventually developed, they were withheld from the Black participants so that researchers could continue their study. Similarly, Nazi scientists conducted horrific experiments on Jewish people during the Holocaust. This was justified in the name of research and progress which is indicative of the far reaching affects that the culture of dehumanization had upon this society. When this research came to light, efforts were made to protect participants of future research, and currently institutional review boards exist to safeguard individuals from being taken advantage of by scientists.\n\nIn a medical context, the passage of time has served to make some dehumanizing practices more acceptable, not less. While dissections of human cadavers was seen as dehumanizing in the Dark Ages (see History of anatomy), the value of dissections as a training aid is such that they are now more widely accepted. Dehumanization has been associated with modern medicine generally, and specifically, has been suggested as a coping mechanism for doctors who work with patients at the end of life. Researchers have identified six potential causes of dehumanization in medicine: deindivudating practices, impaired patient agency, dissimilarity (causes which do not facilitate the delivery of medical treatment), mechanization, empathy reduction, and moral disengagement (which could be argued, do facilitate the delivery of medical treatment).\n\nFrom the patient point of view, in some states in America, controversial legislation requires that a woman view the ultrasound image of her fetus before being able to have an abortion. Critics of the law argue that simply seeing an image of the fetus humanizes it, and biases women against abortion. Similarly, a recent study showed that subtle humanization of medical patients appears to improve care for these patients. Radiologists evaluating X-rays reported more details to patients and expressed more empathy when a photo of the patient's face accompanied the X-rays. It appears that inclusion of the photos counteracts the dehumanization of the medical process.\n\nDehumanization has applications outside traditional social contexts. Anthropomorphism (i.e., perceiving in nonhuman entities mental and physical capacities that reflect humans) is the inverse of dehumanization, which occurs when characteristics that apply to humans are denied to other humans. Waytz, Epley, and Cacioppo suggest that the inverse of the factors that facilitate dehumanization (e.g., high status, power, and social connection) should facilitate anthropomorphism. That is, a low status, socially disconnected person without power should be more likely to attribute human qualities to pets or electronics than a high-status, high-power, socially connected person.\n\nResearchers have found that engaging in violent video game play diminishes perceptions of both one's own humanity and the humanity of the players who are targets of the violence in the games. While the players are dehumanized, the video game characters that play them are likely anthropomorphized.\n\nDehumanization has occurred historically under the pre-tense of \"progress in the name of science\". During the St. Louis World's fair in 1904 human zoos exhibited several natives from independent tribes around the globe, most notably a young Congolese man, Ota Benga. Benga's imprisonment was put on display as a public service showcasing “a degraded and degenerate race”. During this period religion was still the driving force behind much political and scientific action, and because of this, eugenics were widely supported among the most notable US scientific communities, political figures, and industrial elites. After allocating to New York in 1906, public outcry led to the permanent ban and closure of human zoos in the United States.\n\nIn Martin Luther King Jr.'s book on civil rights \"Why We Can't Wait\", he explains \"Our nation was born in genocide when it embraced the doctrine that the original American, the Indian, was an inferior race.\"\n\nMi'kmaq elder and human rights activist Daniel N. Paul has researched written extensively of historic accounts of atrocious acts of violence against First Nations peoples in North America. His work states European colonialism in Canada and America was a subjugation of the indigenous peoples and is an unequivocal violent series of crimes against humanity which has been unparalleled historically. Tens of millions First Nations died at the hands of European invaders in an attempt to appropriate the entirety of the land. Those hundreds of diverse civilizations and communities who thrived across North America millions of years before the exploits of Christopher Columbus were ultimately destroyed. Dehumanization occurred in the form of barbaric genocidal processes of murder, rape, starvation, enslavement, allocation, and germ warfare. Of the myriad of ways the English performed ethnic cleansing, one of the most frequent was the practice of bounty hunting and scalping—where colonial conquerors would raid communities and remove the scalps of children and adults. This war crime of scalping was most prevalent when maritime colonialists repeatedly attempted to eradicate Daniel N. Paul's ancestors, the Mi'kmaq. Scalping was common practice in many United States areas all the way until the 1860s in attempt to completely wipe out the remaining First Nations.\n\nCompton's cafeteria riot predates the stonewall riots of 1969 and marks one of the first times in American history that non-hetero-normative peoples denied their oppressors taking agency by demanding human rights. This incident was a result of the rampant discrimination, abuse, and ultimately, dehumanizing acts of violence against the LGBT community in the tenderloin district of San Francisco. Up until the Compton cafeteria riot, the act of dressing in non-gender binary clothing was considered a criminal offence, and police would respond to \"cross-dressers\" with frequent violence and misconduct. Accounts of frequent sexual assault, police brutality, abuse of power, and constant arrests by local law enforcement towards those seeking refuge in the ghettos of the tenderloin have been told in the documentary \"Screaming Queens: The Riot at Compton’s Cafeteria.\"\n\nGerman philosopher and anthropologist of law Axel Montenbruck wrote that dehumanization is inextricably linked with both the \"techniques of neutralization\" (David Matza/Gresham Sykes) and to the obedience aspects of the Milgram experiment and in a wider sense with Philip Zimbardo's Stanford prison experiment.\n\nMontenbruck continues that—in light of our common Western civilization—dehumanization is based on political Humanism, in terms of both human rights and Western democracy. Each of them are grounded in the \"dignity of man\" aspect. Therefore, its \"negation\" might be seen as dehumanization in our common Western sense. Furthermore, in light democracy, criminal law might be reduced to the simple formula: violating a person means an act of dehumanization by taking \"freedom, unfairly and inhumanely\". The reaction of a civilized Western society ought to be \"taking freedom as well, but fair and humane\".\n\nDehumanization and dehumanized perception can occur as a result of language used to describe groups of people. Words such as migrant, immigrant, and expatriate are assigned to foreigners based on their social status and wealth, rather than ability, achievements, and political alignment. Expatriate has been found to be a word to describe the privileged, often light-skinned people newly residing in an area and has connotations which suggest ability, wealth, and trust. Meanwhile, the word immigrant is used to describe people coming to a new area to reside and infers a much less desirable meaning. Further, \"immigrant\" is a word that can be paired with \"illegal\", which harbours a deeply negative connotation to those projecting social cognition towards the other. The misuse and perpetual misuse of these words used to describe the other in the English language can alter the perception of a group in a derogatory way. \"Most of the time when we hear [illegal immigrant] used, most of the time the shorter version 'illegals' is being used as a noun, which implies that a human being is perpetually illegal. There is no other classification that I’m aware of where the individual is being rendered as illegal as opposed to the actions of that individuals.\"\n\nA series of examinations of language sought to find if there was a direct relation between homophobic epithets and social cognitive distancing towards a group of homosexuals, a form of dehumanization. These epithets (e.g., \"faggot\") were thought to function as dehumanizing labels because of their tendency to act as labels of deviance. In both studies, subjects were shown a homophobic epithet, its labelled category, or unspecific insult. Subjects were later prompted to associate words of animal and human connotations to both heterosexuals and homosexuals. The results found that the malignant language, when compared to the unspecific insult and categorized labels, subjects would not connect the human connotative words with homosexuals. Further, the same assessment was done to measure effects the language may have on the physical distancing between the subject and homosexuals.Similarly to the prior associative language study, it was found that subjects became more physically distant to the homosexual, indicating the malignant language could encourage dehumanization, cognitive and physical distancing in ways that other forms of malignant language does not.\n\nFrancisco Goya, famed Spanish painter and printmaker of the romantic period often depicted subjectivity involving the atrocities of war and brutal violence conveying the process of dehumanization. In the romantic period of painting martyrdom art was most often a means of deifying the oppressed and tormented, and it was common for Goya to depict evil personalities performing these unjust horrible acts. But it was revolutionary the way the painter broke this convention by dehumanizing these martyr figures. \"…one would not know whom the painting depicts, so determinedly has Goya reduced his subjects from martyrs to meat.\"\n\nThe propaganda model of Edward S. Herman and Noam Chomsky argues that corporate media are able to carry out large-scale, successful dehumanization campaigns when they promote the goals (profit-making) that the corporations are contractually obliged to maximise. In both democracies and dictatorships, state media are also capable of carrying out dehumanization campaigns, to the extent with which the population is unable to counteract the dehumanizing memes.\n\n"}
{"id": "5847489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5847489", "title": "Diamond Cut Diamond (fairy tale)", "text": "Diamond Cut Diamond (fairy tale)\n\nDiamond Cut Diamond is a Pakistani fairy tale. Andrew Lang included it in \"The Olive Fairy Book\" (1907), describing as a Punjabi story collected by Major Campbell in Feroshepore.\n\nA merchant, after many years of poverty and hard work was forced to move to a distant region and then grew rich. He decided to go home and tell his wife. On the way he met a man that told him that his road was beset by thieves, and the merchant left with his box of jewels with him until he could get men of his own family to accompany him. On the way there he was robbed and the only thing left was his box of jewels. When he returned the man at the gate denied that it had ever happened, and threw him out of the shop. The merchant was angry. \n\nRemington Ram saw him laying dusty on the ground on the road, and asked him what had happened. Then he sat up and told him to go back the next day, and ask for his box when someone gave him a signal. While he was waiting, a donkey with a man on top arrived, and the man was told that a lady wished to leave her boxes of jewels with him, for safety. While the talk was still going on, the merchant received the signal and came to ask. The man decided that it would put off the lady, and handed over the box. The merchant started to dance in the street and then was arrested. A messenger arrived and told the wife that her husband had been arrested, so she went to the prison to get her husband out. Then Remington Ram burst out of the chest on the side of the donkey and joined the merchant. Then the man joined them.\n\nSomeone said that the merchant had recovered his jewels, that Remington Ram had tricked him, later that day Remington was arrested. He said that he had thought he had learned every way to trick people, but now he knew another. Remington was sentenced to 5 years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "17450598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17450598", "title": "Encyclopedia Talmudit", "text": "Encyclopedia Talmudit\n\nThe Encyclopedia Talmudit ( \"entsiyklopediah talmudiyt\") is a Hebrew language encyclopedia that aims to summarize the halakhic topics of the Talmud in alphabetical order. It began in 1942 and is still an active project , with 39 volumes (plus several index volumes) published so far. Over half of the project is complete, and it is hoped to finish it in the following decade with the publishing of thirty more volumes. An English translation, the \"Encyclopedia Talmudica\" began to be published in 1969.\nIt is published by the Torah literature publishing group , named after Rabbi Yitzhak HaLevi Herzog, in Jerusalem.\n\nThe project began at the initiative of Rabbi Meir Bar-Ilan (Berlin) (1880–1949), the son of the Netziv. The concept was first described in a 1921 lecture by Chief Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, who outlined several projects for Torah scholars, including a work \"that elucidates the essence of Torah principles, organized by encyclopedic entries.\" Bar-Ilan organized a group of notable editors. The purpose was to summarize all the Talmudic discussions and all the opinions of Rishonim and Acharonim in encyclopedia articles in alphabetical order.\n\nThe first edition of the first volume was published in 1947. This volume included 219 articles in an organized format of summaries. The same volume was reprinted three more times: in 1947, 1951, and 1955. After Bar-Ilan died in 1949, it was republished in a newly revised and expanded edition.\n\nIn 1947 \"Encyclopedia Talmudit\" won the city prize of Tel Aviv for Torah literature to honor the memory of Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook.\n\nMajor Torah scholars, both Hasidim and Mitnagdim, supported the project. Supporters included Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, Rabbi Moshe Feinstein, Rabbi Yosef Shalom Eliashiv, Rabbi Yochanan Sofer, and others.\n\nThe administrator of the encyclopedia from its founding was Rabbi (1910–2009), who succeeded in securing the initiative with stable financial backing, thanks to his connections with leaders of the Mizrachi movement.\n\nThe first editor-in-chief was Rabbi Shlomo Yosef Zevin (1886–1978). The first editors were Rabbi Benjamin Rabinovitz-Teomim, Rabbi Shimon Stralitz, Rabbi Yonah Martzebach and Rabbi Alter Hilevitz.\n\nIn later years tens of Torah scholars joined the editorial board, among them Rabbi Eliezer Waldenberg, the author of Tzitz Eliezer; Rabbi Isaac Epstein, the judge in the Tel Aviv Beit Din; Rabbi Yehuda Gershoni; Rabbi Shmuel Kroyzer; Rabbi Refael Shmulevitz, the Rosh Yeshiva of the Mir yeshiva (Jerusalem); Rabbi Azriel Levi, the chief editor of the Oz VeHadar version of the Talmud; and others.\n\nThe current editor-in-chief is Rabbi Zalman Nehemiah Goldberg. In late 2006 Professor Avraham Steinberg took on the role of administrative director.\n\nRabbi Zevin's style was to abbreviate and summarize wherever possible. In the first two volumes he followed an extremely brief format under the influence of Rabbi Bar-Ilan, but in later volumes published after Rabbi Bar-Ilan died the volumes are more encompassing, and include not only the essence of the article but also many of its details and branched topics.\n\nRabbi Zevin established the listing of primary and secondary articles and the system of halakhic analysis of the encyclopedia. He edited the volumes that were published during his lifetime, and prepared other volumes until the end of letter Heth (ח).\n\nThe articles are organized in the following order: definition, sources, reasons and derivations, and various opinions. The first article was Aleph (א) and the last to date has been Kitvei ha-Qodesh (כ). The extent of development in the articles has expanded over time.\n\nThere are two volumes of indexes, including an index of topics and of citations from the Babylonian Talmud.\n\n\"Encyclopedia Talmudit\" is also published on a computer version on a compact disc as part of the searchable Bar Ilan Responsa Project. (See Torah database.)\n\nEncyclopedia Talmudica is an English translation, commenced 1969.\nThe founding editors of the translation were Isidore Epstein and Harry Freedman.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56007286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56007286", "title": "Ethel Sturges Dummer", "text": "Ethel Sturges Dummer\n\nEthel Sturges Dummer (1866–1954) was a Chicago-based progressive activist, author, and philanthropist whose interests encompassed child labor laws, prison reform, education, psychology, and conservation. Born in Chicago in 1866 to Mary (Delafield) Sturges and George Sturges, she graduated in 1885 from the Kirkland School, a high school, in Chicago. She married William Francis Dummer (1851–1928), a prominent Chicago banker, in 1888. The couple had four daughters—Marion, Ethel, Katharine, and Frances—and a son who died in infancy.\n\nAlthough she had no formal education beyond secondary school and never held a paid job, she played a significant role in the Chicago school of sociology and in professional sociology in general, according to sociologist Jennifer Platt. Dummer funded projects she considered important and encouraged professionals to work on them. She often provided to these professionals relevant data gathered by networks of social reformers, many of them women. In a review of Dummer's autobiography, \"Why I Think So – The Autobiography of an Hypothesis\" (1937), Thomas Eliot of Northwestern University, said, \"Mrs. Dummer is best recognized in her intellectual enthusiasms, and in her generous tributes and contributions (spiritual and material) to the work of others.\"\n\nIn 1905, she joined the National Child Labor Committee and the Chicago Juvenile Protective Association, and in 1908, she became a founder and trustee of the Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy, later the University of Chicago School of Social Service Administration. She extended financial support to entities such as the Juvenile Psychopathic Institute and to prominent psychologists, psychiatrists, and sociologists including Adolf Meyer, Thomas Eliot, William Alanson White, Trigant Burrow, Katharine Anthony, Jessie Taft, and others. She funded research, writing, and administrative projects undertaken by Miriam Van Waters, a well-known prison reformer. She helped found the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene and served on the boards of the City Club of Chicago, and the National Probation Association.\n\nAmong Dummer's published work are prefaces to \"The Unadjusted Girl\" by William I. Thomas (1923), a prominent sociologist and author. Concerned about the unequal treatment of women and men involved in what were known as sexual vice crimes, Dummer paid Thomas $5,000 a year for two years to research and analyze cases involving female prostitutes and unmarried mothers. Drawn to the work of Mary Boole and her husband, mathematician George Boole, Dummer supported publication of Mary Boole's collected works in 1931 and wrote a pamphlet, \"Mary E. Boole: A Pioneer Student of the Unconscious\" in 1945.\n\nDummer's wide-ranging interests included biology, psychiatry, anthropology, and economics. \"The Unconscious: A Symposium (1928)\"; \"The Evolution of a Biological Faith\" (1943), and \"What is Thought?\" (1945) were among her other published works.\n\nAfter 1947, Dummer lived with her daughter Katharine Dummer Fisher in Winnetka, Illinois. She died in Winnetka in 1954; memorial services were held at the Institute for Juvenile Research in Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "39812734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39812734", "title": "Falkland Islands status", "text": "Falkland Islands status\n\nFalkland Islands status is a legal status in the Falkland Islands (the Falklands form of belonger status) defined by section 22(5) of the Falkland Islands Constitution and the Falkland Islands Status Ordinance, 2007 and is considered to be the closest thing to citizenship that the Falkland Islands can grant. The Executive Council of the Falkland Islands considers applications for Status four times a year in January, April, July and October and advises the Governor as to whether or not they may be granted. If the application is unsuccessful, the applicant has the right to appeal to the Supreme Court of the Falkland Islands.\n\nAccording to the 2012 census, a majority of those with Falkland Islands Status are British Citizens, with 11% coming from 58 other countries (including 18 Argentine nationals).\n\nBefore the current Falkland Islands Constitution came into force on 1 January 2009, Falkland Islands Status was defined by the 1985 Constitution, under which a person was eligible for Falkland Islands Status if they were:\n\nUnder section 22(5) of the current Falkland Islands Constitution, a person is entitled to Falkland Islands status if they are:\n\nSince 2007, all new applicants for Falkland Islands Status, if their application is successful, must attend a Status Ceremony and make a pledge to the Falkland Islands, as follows:\nCeremonies, which are presided over by the Governor of the Falkland Islands, normally take place within one month of approval of an application. The first ceremony took place on 17 August 2007.\n"}
{"id": "596257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=596257", "title": "Fiction based on World War II", "text": "Fiction based on World War II\n\nMany types of fiction have involved events in the World War II time period. This list is a chronological collection of significant events from such fiction. It includes events that were set in World War II but have never occurred. Many of these works are key examples of the war novel genre.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52520672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52520672", "title": "Goge Africa", "text": "Goge Africa\n\nGoge Africa (GA) is an award-winning pan-African tourism and cultural programme, which was founded in the year 1999. It was conceptualized and anchor by a Nigerian couple, Isaac and Nneka Moses. The program is watched by over 40millions television (TV) viewers across the globe.\n\nOn 1 October 1999, GA premiered on Nigerian TV ;African Independent Television (AIT), Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Channel 10, and Degue Broadcasting Network (DBN).It was later aired on MNET AFRICA MAGIC.\n\nThe recording of GA started in Nigeria and moved to Benin Republic,South Africa and Egypt with the plan to cover all countries in Africa.The show was established to showcase the richness of African culture, dance, food, clothes and tourism.\n\nIn the year 2016, the Nigerian Broadcasters Merit award (NBMA) inducted the two presenters of the program into Nigerian Broadcasters Hall of Fame. In 2005, the organization launched GA foundation with the aim of mentoring Nigerian youths.\n\nGoge Africa was founded by the duo of Isaac and Nneka Moses as a pan African cultural project. The program was conceptualized with aim of promoting African culture, music, food and her ways of life through television, radio and magazines. The name \"Goge Africa\", was culled from a musical instrument common among musicians from Northern part of Nigeria called Goge.\n\nAccording to AIT, goge Africa... \"Goge Africa, every tribe, every African culture and tradition is brought to light in a celebratory and joyous manner. Africa has never looked more beautiful than it does on this wonderful show.\".\n\nThe TV version of the program started in the year 1999 when African programs were not popular on Nigerian TV.\n\nThe show is watched by over 40millions television viewers across the globe. In 2016, the two presenters of the show were inducted into the Hall of Fame by NBMA.\n\n"}
{"id": "32716513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32716513", "title": "Gomba language", "text": "Gomba language\n\nGomba is an unclassified language of Ethiopia. It may be Afro-Asiatic. \n\n"}
{"id": "33452367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33452367", "title": "Guild (video game series)", "text": "Guild (video game series)\n\nThe is a compilation of video games produced by Level-5 for the Nintendo 3DS in cooperation with various game designers. The first compilation, , consists of four games and was released at retail in Japan on May 31, 2012. Three of the titles have been announced for individual release on the Nintendo eShop in Western territories during Fall 2012. All four of them were released individually on the Japanese eShop not long after. A second compilation, , which features three games designed by Keiji Inafune, Kazuya Asano, Takemaru Abiko and Kaz Ayabe, was released on the Nintendo eShop in Japan during March 2013 and began releasing in Western territories in May 2013.\n\n\"Guild01\" was released as a compilation for Nintendo 3DS in Japan on May 31, 2012 and consists of four completely distinct games, designed by Goichi Suda, Yoot Saito, Yasumi Matsuno and Yoshiyuki Hirai of comedy duo America Zarigani. The game was bundled with a playable demo of Level-5's game, \"Time Travelers\". They were later released on the Nintendo eShop in late 2012, with the exception of 'Weapon Shop de Omasse,' which was released in February 2014.\n\n is a simulation game directed by Yoot Saito. The player is in charge of an airport, and their goal is to manage baggage quickly and ensure that the airplanes are able to depart on time. If the player is successful, their airport's rating will grow, gaining them more money and passengers as well as allowing them to purchase new airplanes and expand their airport. The game was released in North America, Europe and Australasia on November 29, 2012 and individually in Japan on December 5, 2012.\n\n is a traditional adventure RPG created by Yasumi Matsuno, developed internally at Level-5 alongside Nex Entertainment. The player is a \"Chaser\", someone who is an expert at searching for people. The game is set 1,000 years in the past in a world without magic, and the story details how magic became commonplace in its world. The game was released on the Nintendo eShop in Japan on November 28, 2012 and in North America, Europe and Australasia on December 13, 2012. The game features music by Hitoshi Sakimoto's company, Basiscape, with music from him, Mitsuhiro Kaneda, Azusa Chiba, Kimihiro Abe, and Masaharu Iwata.\n\n is a fantasy rhythm RPG written by Yoshiyuki Hirai, in which the main characters are a father and son pair who craft weapons for heroes. The player uses rhythmic gameplay to forge weapons which are rented by heroes for their quests; the weapon chosen will affect whether or not the hero is successful. The game was released individually on the Japanese Nintendo eShop on November 21, 2012. Originally, this was the only title not to be announced for Western release, with the publisher citing the high degree of translation required and debatable audience size for the game for a localization to be produced. In January 2014, a classification of the game was posted by the Australian Classification Board under the title, \"Weapon Shop de Omasse\", suggesting that the game would receive a localization. The game was released on February 20, 2014 after the announcement during a Nintendo Direct on February 13, 2014.\n\nA follow-up title, titled \"Guild02\", was announced on May 24, 2012. The compilation features three games designed by Keiji Inafune, Kazuya Asano, Takemaru Abiko and Kaz Ayabe. The compilation has not been announced for a retail release. These games were released on the Nintendo eShop in Japan in March 2013, and in North America, Europe and Australasia in May 2013. Each \"Guild02\" game has bonus content which can be accessed if save data for any \"Guild01\" game is detected.\n\n is a life simulation game designed by Kaz Ayabe, who is known in Japan for the popular \"Boku no Natsuyasumi\" series. The game follows a boy named Sohta who lives in a town where monsters and superheroes from 1970s tokusatsu shows appear every Friday. The game was released in Japan on March 13, 2013 and in North America, Europe and Australasia on July 18, 2013.\n\n is a tank action game designed by Keiji Inafune. The game sees players take the role of various World War II tanks piloted by Nazi soldiers that have been shrunk down to miniature size in order to fight against various bugs and insects. The game was released in Japan on March 19, 2013 and in North America, Europe and Australasia on June 20, 2013.\n\n is a first-person perspective survival horror game designed by Kazuya Asano and Takemaru Abiko. The game throws players into a suspenseful environment with no tutorials or hints to guide them. The game was released in Japan on March 27, 2013 and in North America, Europe and Australasia on May 16, 2013.\n\n\"Famitsu\" gave \"Guild01\" a score of 34/40. In an import review, ComputerAndVideoGames.com gave the game a score of 7.5, saying that whilst the individual games have a lot of charm, the differences between them are too great for them to work as a single package.\n\n"}
{"id": "46189838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46189838", "title": "Guyanese Sign Language", "text": "Guyanese Sign Language\n\nGuyanese Sign Language is the deaf sign language of Guyana. Little information is available. Since American Sign Language is used for education in Guyana, \"Guyanese Sign Language\" may simply be the local name for ASL.\n"}
{"id": "41853322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41853322", "title": "Herr Gurka", "text": "Herr Gurka\n\nHerr Gurka (\"Mr. Cucumber\") is a 1947 Swedish children's song with lyrics by Lennart Hellsing and music by pianist Knut Brodin.\n"}
{"id": "27634656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27634656", "title": "Hispanic Review", "text": "Hispanic Review\n\nHispanic Review is a peer-reviewed academic journal which focuses on research in Hispanic and Luso-Brazilian literature and culture. The journal was created in 1933 to replace the French journal \"\" that had just stopped publication. Since its creation the journal has been edited by the Department of Romance Languages at the University of Pennsylvania. The journal is published quarterly by the University of Pennsylvania Press. It is available online through Project MUSE and JSTOR. The current general editor is Román de la Campa (University of Pennsylvania). Russell P. Sebold has been the longest-serving editor, having directed the journal for over twenty-nine years. Ignacio Javier López, Barbara Fuchs, and Michael Solomon have served as editors in the past.\n\nCurrent issues of the journal are available electronically through Project MUSE; earlier issues can be found through JSTOR.\n\n"}
{"id": "347713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347713", "title": "Huia", "text": "Huia\n\nThe huia (; \"Heteralocha acutirostris\") is an extinct species of New Zealand wattlebird, endemic to the North Island of New Zealand. The last confirmed sighting of a huia was in 1907, although there were credible sightings as late as the early 1960s.\n\nIts extinction had two primary causes. The first was rampant overhunting to procure huia skins for mounted specimens and their tail feathers for hat decorations. The second major cause was the widespread deforestation of the lowlands of the North Island by European settlers to create pasture for agriculture. Most of these forests were ancient, ecologically complex primary forests, and huia were unable to survive in regenerating secondary forests.\n\nIt was already a rare bird before the arrival of Europeans, confined to the Ruahine, Tararua, Rimutaka and Kaimanawa mountain ranges in the south-east of the North Island. It was remarkable for having the most pronounced sexual dimorphism in bill shape of any bird species in the world. The female's beak was long, thin and arched downward, while the male's was short and stout, like that of a crow. Males were long, while females were larger at . The sexes were otherwise similar, with orange wattles and predominantly black plumage with a green sheen. The huia was a bird of deep metallic, bluish-black plumage with a greenish iridescence on the upper surface, especially about the head. The tail feathers were unique among endemic birds in having a broad white band across the tips.\n\nThe birds lived in forests at both montane and lowland elevations – they are thought to have moved seasonally, living at higher elevation in summer and descending to lower elevation in winter. Huia were omnivorous and ate adult insects, grubs and spiders, as well as the fruits of a small number of native plants. Males and females used their beaks to feed in different ways: the male used his bill to chisel away at rotting wood, while the female's longer, more flexible bill was able to probe deeper areas. Even though the huia is frequently mentioned in biology and ornithology textbooks because of this striking dimorphism, not much is known about its biology; it was little studied before it was driven to extinction.\n\nThe huia is one of New Zealand's best-known extinct birds because of its bill shape, its sheer beauty and special place in Māori culture and oral tradition. The bird was regarded by Māori as \"tapu\" (sacred), and the wearing of its skin or feathers was reserved for people of high status.\n\nThe genus name, \"Heteralocha\", derives from Ancient Greek \"ἕτερος\" \"different\" and \"ἄλοχος\" \"wife\". It refers to the striking difference in bill shape between male and female. The specific name, \"acutirostris\", derives from Latin \"acutus\", meaning \"sharp pointed\", and \"rostrum\", meaning \"beak\", and refers to the beak of the female.\n\nJohn Gould described the huia in 1836 as two species: \"Neomorpha acutirostris\" based on a female specimen, and \"N. crassirostris\" based on a male specimen—the epithet \"crassirostris\" derives from the Latin \"crassus\", meaning \"thick\" or \"heavy\", and refers to the male's short bill. In 1840, George Robert Gray proposed the name \"N. gouldii\", arguing that neither of Gould's names was applicable to the species. In 1850, Jean Cabanis replaced the name \"Neomorpha\", which had been previously used for a cuckoo genus, with \"Heteralocha\". In 1888 Sir Walter Buller wrote: \"I have deemed it more in accordance with the accepted rules of zoological nomenclature to adopt the first of the two names applied to the species by Mr Gould; and the name \"Neomorpha\" having been previously used in ornithology, it becomes necessary to adopt that of \"Heteralocha\", proposed by Dr Cabanis for this form.\"\n\nThe huia appears to be a remnant of an early expansion of passerines in the country of New Zealand, and is the largest of the three members of the family Callaeidae, the New Zealand wattlebirds; the others are the saddleback and the kōkako. The only close relative to the family is the stitchbird; their taxonomic relationships to other birds remain to be determined. A molecular study of the nuclear RAG-1 and c-mos genes of the three species within the family proved inconclusive, the data providing most support for either a basally diverging kōkako or huia.\n\nThe huia had black plumage with a green metallic tinge and distinctive rounded bright orange wattles at the gape. In both sexes, the eyes were brown; the beak was ivory white, greyish at the base; the legs and feet were long and bluish grey while the claws were light brown. Huia had twelve long glossy black tail feathers, each tipped for with a broad band of white. Immature huia had small pale wattles, duller plumage flecked with brown, and a reddish-buff tinge to the white tips of the tail feathers. The beak of the young female was only slightly curved. Māori referred to certain huia as \"huia-ariki\", \"chiefly huia\". The \"huia-ariki\" had brownish plumage streaked with grey, and the feathers on the neck and head were darker. This variant may have been a partial albino, or perhaps such birds were simply of great age. Several true albino huia were recorded. A white specimen painted by John Gerrard Keulemans around 1900 may have been the result of progressive greying or leucism, rather than albinism; the current whereabouts of this specimen are unknown. \n\nAlthough sexual dimorphism in bill shape is found in other birds, such as the riflebirds, sicklebills and other wood-excavating birds including some species of woodpecker, it was most pronounced in the huia. The beak of the male was short at approximately and slightly arched downwards and robust, very similar to that of the closely related saddleback, while the female's beak was finer, longer at around , and decurved (curved downward) like that of a hummingbird or honeyeater. The difference was not only in the bone; the rhamphotheca grew way past the end of the bony maxilla and mandible to produce a pliable implement able to deeply penetrate holes made by wood-boring beetle larvae. The skulls and mandibles of the huia and saddleback are very similar, the latter essentially miniatures of the former.\n\nThere are two possible explanations for the evolution of this sexual difference in bill shape. The most widely supported is that it allowed birds of different sexes to utilise different food sources. This divergence may have arisen because of a lack of competitors in these foraging niches in the North Island forest ecosystems. The other idea is that the ivory-coloured bill, which contrasted sharply with the bird's black plumage, may have been used to attract a mate. In animals that use sexually dimorphic physical traits to attract a mate, the dimorphic feature is often brightly coloured or contrasts with the rest of the body, as with the huia. It has been suggested that as the female was the main provider of food for the chicks by regurgitation, this sex evolved the longer bill to obtain the protein-rich invertebrate diet required for the chicks.\n\nAnother, less obvious aspect of the huia's sexual dimorphism was the minor size difference between the sexes. Males were long, while females were larger at . Additionally, the tail of the male was about in length and the wingspan was between , while the female's tail was and the female's wingspan was .\n\nSubfossil deposits and midden remains reveal that the huia was once widespread in both lowland and montane native forest throughout the North Island, extending from the northernmost tip at Cape Reinga to Wellington and the Aorangi Range in the far south. Only a few huia are known from the extensive pitfall deposits in the karst of the Waitomo Caves area and they are also rare or absent in fossil deposits in the central North Island and Hawke's Bay; it seems to have preferred habitats that are not well sampled by the deposits known at present. The huia vanished from the northern and western North Island following Māori settlement in the 14th century, due to over-hunting, forest clearance, and introduced kiore preying on nests. By the time of European settlement in the 1840s it was only found only south of a line from the Raukumara Range in the east, across the Kaimanawa Range, to the Turakina River in the Rangitikei in the west. In the south, its range extended to the Wairarapa and the Rimutaka Range east of Wellington. Reports collected by Walter Buller and a single \"waiata\" (Māori song) suggest that the huia was once also found in the Marlborough and Nelson districts of the South Island; however, it has never been identified in the rich fossil deposits south of Cook Strait, and there is no other evidence of the species' presence.\n\nThe huia inhabited both of the two principal forest types in New Zealand. They were primarily found in broadleaf-podocarp forests where there was a dense understorey, but occasionally also in southern beech (\"Nothofagus\") forest. The species was observed in native vegetation including mataī (\"Prumnopitys taxifolia\"), rimu (\"Dacrydium cupressinum\"), kahikatea (\"Dacrycarpus dacrydioides\"), northern rātā (\"Metrosideros robusta\"), maire (\"Nestegis\"), hinau (\"Elaeocarpus dentatus\"), totara (\"Podocarpus totara\"), rewarewa (\"Knightia excelsa\"), mahoe (\"Melicytus ramiflorus\"), and taraire (\"Beilschmiedia tarairi\"), and at sea level in karaka (\"Corynocarpus laevigatus\") trees at Cape Turakirae. It was never seen in burnt forest or land cleared for farming.\n\nThe huia's movements are little known, but it was most likely sedentary. The huia is thought to have undertaken seasonal movements, living in montane forests in the summer and moving down into lowland forests in the winter to avoid the harsher weather and cold temperatures of higher altitudes. Like the surviving New Zealand wattlebirds, the saddleback and the kōkako, the huia was a weak flier and could only fly for short distances, and seldom above tree height. More often it would use its powerful legs to propel it in long leaps and bounds through the canopy or across the forest floor, or it would cling vertically to tree trunks with its tail spread for balance.\n\nThe huia, with the previously endangered saddleback, were the two species of classic bark and wood probers in the arboreal insectivore guild in the New Zealand avifauna. Woodpeckers do not occur east of Wallace's line; their ecological niche is filled by other groups of birds that feed on wood-boring beetle larvae, albeit in rotting wood. The woodpecker-like role was taken on by two species in two different families in the New Zealand mixed-podocarp and \"Nothofagus\" forests; one was the huia and the other was the kaka.\n\nThe huia foraged mainly on decaying wood. Although it was considered a specialist predator of the larvae of the nocturnal huhu beetle (\"Prionoplus reticularis\"), it also ate other insects—including weta—insect larvae, spiders, and fruit.\n\nInsects and spiders were taken from decaying wood, from under bark, mosses and lichens, and from the ground. Huia foraged either alone, in pairs, or in small flocks of up to five, which were probably family groups. The sexual dimorphism of the bill structure gave rise to feeding strategies that differed radically between the sexes. The male used its adze-like bill to chisel and rip into the outer layers of decaying wood, while the female probed areas inaccessible to the male, such as the burrows of insect larvae in living wood. The male had well-developed cranial musculature allowing rotten wood to be chiselled and pried apart by \"gaping\" motions. There are corresponding differences in the structure and musculature of the head and neck between males and females. Huia had very well developed depressor jaw muscles, and an occipital crest that provided extra surface for muscle attachment, allowing the jaw to be opened with considerable force. Once the bird had secured a meal, it flew to a perch with the insect in its feet. The huia stripped its meal of any hard parts, then tossed the remainder up, caught, and swallowed it.\nPairs did not cooperate in feeding, at least not in a strict sense. All such reports are based on misunderstanding of an account by ornithologist Walter Buller of a pair kept in captivity obtaining wood-boring beetle larvae. According to this misunderstanding, which has become part of ecological folklore, the male would tear at the wood and open larval tunnels, thus allowing the female to probe deeply into the tunnels with her long, pliant bill. Rather, the divergent bills represent an extreme example of niche differentiation, reducing intraspecific competition between the sexes. This allowed the species to exploit a wide range of food sources in different microhabitats.\n\nThe New Zealand forest relies heavily on frugivorous birds for seed dispersal: about 70% of the woody plants have fruits that are probably dispersed by birds, which included the huia. The range of fruits eaten by the huia is difficult to establish: hinau (\"Elaeocarpus dentatus\"), pigeonwood (\"Hedycarya arborea\") and various species of \"Coprosma\" are recorded by Buller, and they were also recorded as eating the fruits of kahikatea (\"Dacrycarpus dacrydioides\"). The extinction of the huia and other frugivorous New Zealand bird species including the moa and piopio, and the diminishing range of many others, including the kiwi, weka, and kōkako, has left few effective seed dispersers in the New Zealand forest. For plants with fruit greater than 1 cm in diameter, kereru are the sole remaining dispersers in the ecosystem, and they are rare or extinct in some areas. This depletion of avifauna in the forest ecosystem may be having major impacts on processes such as forest regeneration and seed dispersal.\n\nLike so many other aspects of its biology, the vocalisations of the huia are not well known, and present knowledge is based on very few accounts. The calls were mostly a varied array of whistles, \"peculiar and strange\", but also \"soft, melodious and flute-like\". An imitation of the bird's call survives as a recording of 1909 huia search team member Henare Hamana whistling the call (see \"External links\"). Huia were often silent. When they did vocalise, their calls could carry considerable distances – some were audible from up to away through dense forest. The calls were said to differ between sexes, though there are no details. Calls were given with the bird's head and neck stretched outward and its bill pointing 30 to 45 degrees from the vertical. Most references describe huia calls as heard in the early morning; one records it as the first bird to sing in the dawn chorus, and captive birds were known to \"wake the household\". Like the whitehead, huia behaved unusually before the onset of wet weather, being \"happy and in full song\". The bird's name is onomatopoeic: it was named by Māori for its loud distress call, a smooth, unslurred whistle rendered as \"uia, uia, uia\" or \"where are you?\". This call was said to be given when the bird was excited or hungry. Chicks had a \"plaintive cry, pleasant to the ear\", would feebly answer imitations by people, and were very noisy when kept in tents.\n\nA species of parasitic phtilopterid louse, \"Rallicola extinctus\", was only known to live on the huia, and apparently became extinct with its host. In 2008, a new species of feather mite, \"Coraciacarus muellermotzfeldi\", was described from dried corpses found in the feathers of a huia skin held by a European museum. While the genus \"Coraciacarus\" has a wide range of hosts globally, the presence of a representative of the genus on a passerine bird was an \"enigmatic phenomenon\". The discoverers suggested the mite could have been horizontally transferred from one of the two native, migratory species of cuckoo (Cuculiformes).\n\nA quiet, social bird, the huia was monogamous, and pairs probably paired for life. The bird was usually found in breeding pairs, although sometimes groups of four or more were encountered. Walter Buller records that a tame pair would always keep close to each other, constantly uttering a \"low affectionate twitter\", even when in captivity. There are records of this same pair and a further, wild pair \"hopping from branch to branch and fanning their tails, then meeting to caress each other with their bills\" and uttering these noises. The male is said to have fed the female in courtship. It is thought that these behaviours may have been a sexual display. The claim that the male fed the female while she was incubating and on the nest \"lacks evidence\". When the male of this captive pair was accidentally killed, the female \"manifesting the utmost distress pined for her mate and died 10 days afterwards\". A Māori man in the 19th century recalled: \"I was always told by my old people that a pair of huia lived on most affectionate terms ... If the male died first, the female died soon after of grief\". The huia had no fear of people; females allowed themselves to be handled on the nest, and birds could easily be captured by hand.\n\nLittle is known about the huia's reproduction, as only two eggs and four nests were ever described. The only known huia egg to still exist is in the collection of the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa. The breeding season for mating, building nests, laying eggs and raising young is thought to have been late spring (October–November). It is thought they nested solitarily; pairs are said to have been territorial and the birds would remain on their territories for life. Huia appear to have raised just one brood per season; the number of eggs in a clutch is variously described as being 3–5, 4, 2–4 and 1–4. These eggs were greyish with purple and brown speckles, and measured . Incubation was mostly by the female, though there is evidence that the male also had a small role, as rubbed-bare brooding patches that were smaller than those of females were discovered on some males in November. The incubation period is unknown. Eggshells were apparently removed from the nest by adults. The brood size was usually one or two, though there was the odd record of up to three chicks in a single nest. Nests were constructed in varying places: in dead trees, the crooks of large branches, tree hollows, on branches, or \"on or near the ground\", and some nests were covered with hanging vegetation or vines. The nest itself was a large saucer-shaped structure, up to 350 mm in diameter and 70 mm deep, with thick walls of dry grass, leaves and \"withered stems of herbaceous plants\". A central small, shallow cup of soft materials such as grass and fine twigs cushioned and insulated the eggs. After hatching, young remained in the family group and were fed by the adults for three months, by which time they appeared adult.\n\nIn Māori culture, the \"white heron and the Huia were not normally eaten but were rare birds treasured for their precious plumes, worn by people of high rank\". The bold and inquisitive nature of the huia made it particularly easy to capture. Māori attracted the huia by imitating its call and then captured it with a \"tari\" (a carved pole with a noose at the end) or snare, or killed it with clubs or long spears. Often they exploited the strong pair bond by capturing one of a pair, which would then call out, attracting its mate, which could be easily captured. Opinion on the quality of huia meat as food varied wildly; although not usually hunted for this purpose, the huia was considered \"good eating\" in pies or curried stew by some, but a \"tough morsel\" and \"unfit to eat\" by others.\n\nAlthough the huia's range was restricted to the southern North Island, its tail feathers were valued highly and were exchanged among tribes for other valuable goods such as pounamu and shark teeth, or given as tokens of friendship and respect. Through this trade, the feathers reached the far north and the far south of New Zealand. They were stored in intricately carved boxes called \"waka huia\", which were hung from the ceilings of chiefs' houses. Huia feathers were worn at funerals and used to decorate the heads of the deceased. The \"marereko\", described by Edward Robert Tregear as an \"ancient war-plume\", consisted of twelve huia feathers. The highly valued \"pōhoi\" was an ornament made from the skin of the huia: the bird was skinned with the beak, skull and wattles attached and the legs and wings removed, carefully dried, and the resulting ornament worn from the neck or ears. Dried huia heads were also worn as pendants called \"ngutu huia\". A captured huia would be kept in a small cage so that its tail feathers could be plucked as they grew to full size.\n\nThe bird was also kept by Māori as a pet, and like the tui, it could be trained to say a few words. There is also a record of a tame huia kept by European settlers in a small village in the Forty-Mile Bush in the 19th century.\n\nNew Zealand has released several postage stamps portraying the huia, and the New Zealand sixpence circulated from 1933 to 1966 featured a female huia on the reverse.\n\nThe degree to which the huia was known and admired in New Zealand is reflected in the large number of suburban and geographical features which are named after the species. There are several roads and streets named after the huia in the North Island, with several in Wellington (including Huia Road in Days Bay – not far from where one of the last sightings of this species occurred in the early 1920s in the forests of East Harbour Regional Park) and also in Auckland, where there is even a Huia suburb in Waitakere. A river on the west coast of the South Island and the Huiarau Ranges in the central North Island are also named after the bird. The species was once found living in great abundance in the forests of these mountains: \"Huiarau\" means \"a hundred huia\". Businesses include the public swimming pool in Lower Hutt, a Marlborough winery, and Huia Publishers, which specialises in Māori writing and perspectives. The name was first given to a child in the late 19th century, to the son of members of a lower North Island \"iwi\" concerned about the bird's rapid decline, and although uncommon, it is still used today in New Zealand as a name for girls and more rarely for boys (e.g. Huia Edmonds), of both European and Māori descent.\n\nTail feathers of the extinct huia are very rare and they have become a collectors' item. In June 2010 a single huia tail feather sold at auction in Auckland for NZ$8,000, much higher than the $500 the auctioneers had expected, making it the most expensive feather ever. The previous record price for a single feather was $US2,800 (NZ$4,000) achieved by a bald eagle feather at auction in the United States.\n\nIn the 2016 New Zealand film \"Hunt for the Wilderpeople\" two of the characters encounter a huia, and eventually set out to obtain proof of their sighting.\n\nThe huia was found throughout the North Island before humans arrived in New Zealand. Māori are estimated to have arrived around 750 years ago, and by the arrival of European settlers in the 1840s, habitat destruction, hunting, and introduced rats had reduced the bird's range to the southern North Island. However, Māori hunting pressures on the huia were limited to some extent by traditional protocols. The hunting season was from May to July when the bird's plumage was in prime condition, while a \"rāhui\" (hunting ban) was enforced in spring and summer. After European settlement the huia's numbers began to decline more quickly, due mainly to two well-documented factors: widespread deforestation and over hunting.\n\nLike the extinctions of other New Zealand birds such as the piopio in the 19th century, the decline of the huia was poorly studied. Massive deforestation occurred in the North Island at this time, particularly in the lowlands of southern Hawkes Bay, the Manawatu and the Wairarapa, as land was cleared by European settlers for agriculture. The huia was particularly vulnerable to this as it could only live in old-growth forest where there were abundant rotting trees filled with wood-boring insect larvae. It seems it could not survive in regenerating, secondary forests. Although the mountainous part of its former range was not deforested, the lowland forests of the valleys below were systematically destroyed. The destruction of this part of its habitat would have undoubtedly had a severe impact on huia populations, but its removal would have been particularly dire if they did in fact descend to the lowlands as a winter refuge to escape snow at higher altitudes as some researchers including Oliver have surmised.\n\nIt appears that predation by invasive mammalian species including ship rats, cats, and mustelids was an additional factor in the decline in huia numbers – introduction of these animals by New Zealand acclimatisation societies peaked in the 1880s and coincided with a particularly sharp decline in huia populations. Because it spent a lot of time on the ground, the huia would have been particularly vulnerable to mammalian predators. Another hypothetical cause of extinction is exotic parasites and disease introduced from Asia with the common myna.\n\nHabitat destruction and the predations of introduced species were problems faced by all New Zealand birds, but in addition the huia faced massive pressure from hunting. Due to its pronounced sexual dimorphism and its beauty, huia were sought after as mounted specimens by wealthy collectors in Europe and by museums all over the world. These individuals and institutions were willing to pay large sums of money for good specimens, and the overseas demand created a strong financial incentive for hunters in New Zealand. This hunting was initially by naturalists. Austrian taxidermist Andreas Reischek took 212 pairs as specimens for the natural history museum in Vienna over a period of 10 years, while New Zealand ornithologist Walter Buller collected 18 on just one of several expeditions to the Rimutaka Ranges in 1883. Others keen to profit soon joined in. Buller records that also in 1883, a party of 11 Māori obtained 646 huia skins from the forest between the Manawatu Gorge and Akitio. Several thousand huia were exported overseas as part of this trade. Infrastructure development within lowland forest did not help the situation: hundreds of huia were shot around road and rail construction camps. \n\nThe rampant and unsustainable hunting was not just financially motivated: it also had a more philosophical, fatalistic aspect. The conventional wisdom among New Zealand Europeans in the 19th century was that things colonial, whether they were plants, animals or people, were inferior to things European. It was widely assumed that the plants and animals of New Zealand's forest ecosystems would be quickly replaced by more vigorous and competitive European species. This assumption of inevitable doom led to a conclusion that the conservation of native biota was pointless and futile; Victorian collectors instead focused their efforts on acquiring a good range of specimens before the rare species disappeared altogether.\n\nThere were some attempts to conserve the huia, but they were few, poorly organised and poorly enforced legally: the conservation movement in New Zealand was still very much in its infancy. There were successive sharp declines in numbers of huia in the 1860s and in the late 1880s, prompting the chiefs of the Manawatu and the Wairarapa to place a rāhui on the Tararua Range. In February 1892, the Wild Birds Protection Act was amended to include the huia, making it illegal to kill the bird, but enforcement was not taken seriously. Island sanctuaries were set up for endangered native birds after this act, but the new bird sanctuaries, including Kapiti Island, Little Barrier Island and Resolution Island, were never stocked with huia. Although attempts were made to capture birds for transfer, no huia were ever transferred. The Kapiti Island attempt is documented as being particularly poorly managed. A live pair destined to be transferred to the island in 1893 was instead appropriated by Buller, who bent the law to take them back to England as a present for Lord Rothschild, along with the last collected live pair of laughing owls.\n\nThe Duke and Duchess of York (later George V and Queen Mary) visited New Zealand in 1901. At an official Māori welcome in Rotorua, a guide took a huia tail feather from her hair and placed it in the band of the Duke's hat as a token of respect. Many people in England and New Zealand wanted to emulate this royal fashion and wear huia feathers in their hats. The price of tail feathers was soon pushed to £1, making each bird worth £12, and some feathers sold for as much as £5. Female huia beaks were also set in gold as jewellery. Shooting season notices ceased listing the huia as a protected species in 1901, and a last-ditch attempt to reinforce government protection failed when the solicitor general ruled that there was no law to protect feathers.\n\nThe decline of the huia over the southern half of the North Island occurred at markedly different rates in different locations. Areas where dramatic declines were observed in the 1880s included the Puketoi Range, the Hutt Valley and Tararuas, and the Pahiatua-Dannevirke area. The species was abundant in a few places in the early 20th century between Hawke's Bay and the Wairarapa; a flock of 100–150 birds was reported at the summit of the Akatarawa–Waikanae track in 1905; they were still \"fairly plentiful\" in the upper reaches of the Rangitikei River in 1906 – and yet, the last confirmed sighting came just one year later.\n\nThe last official, confirmed huia sighting was made on 28 December 1907 when W. W. Smith saw three birds in the forests of the Tararua Ranges. Unconfirmed, \"quite credible\" reports suggest that extinction for the species came a little later. A man familiar with the species reported seeing three huia in Gollans Valley behind York Bay (between Petone and Eastbourne on Wellington Harbour), an area of mixed beech and podocarp forest well within the bird's former range, on 28 December 1922. Sightings of the huia were also reported there in 1912 and 1913. Despite this, naturalists from the Dominion Museum in Wellington did not investigate the reports. The last credible reports of huia come from the forests of Te Urewera National Park, with one from near Mt Urutawa in 1952 and final sightings near Lake Waikareiti in 1961 and 1963. The possibility of a small huia population still surviving in the Urewera ranges has been proposed by some researchers, but is considered highly unlikely. No recent expeditions have been mounted to find a living specimen.\n\nStudents at Hastings Boys' High School organised a conference in 1999 to consider cloning the huia, their school emblem. The tribe Ngāti Huia agreed in principle to support the endeavour, which would be carried out at the University of Otago, and a California-based Internet start-up volunteered $100,000 of funding. However, Sandy Bartle, curator of birds at the Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa, said that the complete huia genome could not be derived from museum skins because of the poor state of the DNA, and cloning was therefore unlikely to succeed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40222914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40222914", "title": "List of fictional immortals", "text": "List of fictional immortals\n\nThis is a list of notable fictional immortals. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5705758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5705758", "title": "List of languages by first written accounts", "text": "List of languages by first written accounts\n\nThis is a list of languages arranged by the approximate dates of the oldest existing texts recording a complete sentence in the language. It does not include undeciphered scripts, though there are various claims without wide acceptance, which, if substantiated, would push backward the first attestation of certain languages. It also does not include inscriptions consisting of isolated words or names from a language.\nIn most cases, some form of the language had already been spoken (and even written) considerably earlier than the dates of the earliest extant samples provided here.\n\nA written record may encode a stage of a language corresponding to an earlier time, either as a result of oral tradition, or because the earliest source is a copy of an older manuscript that was lost. An oral tradition of epic poetry may typically bridge a few centuries, and in rare cases, over a millennium. An extreme case is the Vedic Sanskrit of the \"Rigveda\": the earliest parts of this text may date to 1500 BC, while the oldest known manuscripts date to 1040 AD.\nSimilarly the oldest Avestan texts, the \"Gathas\", are believed to have been composed before 1000 BC, but the oldest Avestan manuscripts date from the 13th century AD.\n\nFor languages that have developed out of a known predecessor, dates provided here follow conventional terminology. For example, Old French developed gradually out of Vulgar Latin, and the Oaths of Strasbourg (842) listed are the earliest text that is classified as \"Old French\".\n\nWriting first appeared in the Near East at the beginning of the 3rd millennium BC. A very limited number of languages are attested in the area from before the Bronze Age collapse and the rise of alphabetic writing:\nIn East Asia towards the end of the second millennium BC, the Sino-Tibetan family was represented by Old Chinese.\n\nThere are also a number of undeciphered Bronze Age records:\nEarlier symbols, such as the Jiahu symbols, Vinča symbols and the marks on the Dispilio tablet, are believed to be proto-writing, rather than representations of language.\n\nThe earliest known alphabetic inscriptions, at Serabit el-Khadim ( 1500 BC), appear to record a Northwest Semitic language, though only one or two words have been deciphered.\nIn the Early Iron Age, alphabetic writing spread across the Near East and southern Europe. With the emergence of the Brahmic family of scripts, languages of India are attested from after about 300 BC.\n\nThere is only fragmentary evidence for languages such as Iberian, Tartessian, Galatian, Thracian and Messapian.\nThe North Picene language of the Novilara Stele from 600 BC has not been deciphered.\nThe earliest examples of the Central American Isthmian script date from 500 BC, but a proposed decipherment remains controversial.\n\nFrom Late Antiquity, we have for the first time languages with earliest records in manuscript tradition (as opposed to epigraphy). Thus, Old Armenian is first attested in the Armenian Bible translation.\n\nThe Vimose inscriptions (2nd and 3rd centuries) in the Elder Futhark runic alphabet appear to record Proto-Norse names. Some scholars interpret the Negau helmet inscription ( 100 BC) as a Germanic fragment.\n\nAttestation by major language family:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42560364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42560364", "title": "List of shoe styles", "text": "List of shoe styles\n\nThis is a list of shoe styles and designs. A shoe is an item of footwear intended to protect and comfort the human foot while doing various activities. Shoes are also used as an item of decoration. The design of shoes has varied enormously through time and from culture to culture, with appearance originally being tied to function. Additionally, fashion has often dictated many design elements, such as whether shoes have very high heels or flat ones. Contemporary footwear varies widely in style, complexity and cost. Shoemaking is the process of making footwear. Originally, shoes were made one at a time by hand. Traditional handicraft shoemaking has now been largely superseded in volume of shoes produced by industrial mass production of footwear, but not necessarily in quality, attention to detail, or craftsmanship.\n\nShoe designers have described a very large number of shoe styles, namely :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1833034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1833034", "title": "Mad Gasser of Mattoon", "text": "Mad Gasser of Mattoon\n\nThe Mad Gasser of Mattoon (also known as the \"Anesthetic Prowler,\" the \"Phantom Anesthetist,\" or simply the \"Mad Gasser\") was the name given to the person or people believed to be responsible for a series of apparent gas attacks that occurred in Mattoon, Illinois, during the mid-1940s. More than two dozen separate cases of gassings were reported to police over the span of two weeks, in addition to many more reported sightings of the suspected assailant. The gasser's supposed victims reported smelling strange odors in their homes which were soon followed by symptoms such as paralysis of the legs, coughing, nausea and vomiting.\n\nPolice remained skeptical of the accounts throughout the entire incident. No physical evidence was ever found, and many reported gassings had simple explanations, such as spilled nail polish or odors emanating from animals or local factories. Victims made quick recoveries from their symptoms and suffered no long-term effects. Nevertheless, local newspapers ran alarmist articles about the reported attacks and treated the accounts as fact.\n\nThe attacks are widely considered to be simply a case of mass hysteria. However, others maintain that the Mad Gasser actually existed, or that the perceived attacks have another explanation, such as industrial pollution.\n\nMost contemporary descriptions of the Mad Gasser are based on the testimony of Mr. and Mrs. Bert Kearney of 1408 Marshall Avenue, the victims of the first Mattoon case to be reported by the media. They described the gasser as being a tall, thin man dressed in dark clothing and wearing a tight-fitting cap. Another report, made some weeks later, described the gasser as being a female dressed as a man. The Gasser had also been described as carrying a flit gun, an agricultural tool for spraying pesticide, which he purportedly used to expel the gas.\n\nThe first of the 1944 gasser incidents occurred at a house on Grant Ave., Mattoon, on August 31, 1944. Urban Raef was awakened during the early hours of the morning by a strange odor. He felt nauseated and weak, and suffered from a fit of vomiting. Suspecting that he was suffering from domestic gas poisoning, Raef's wife tried to check the kitchen stove to see if there was a problem with the pilot light, but found that she was partially paralyzed and unable to leave her bed.\n\nLater that night (some contemporary accounts refer to the time as the morning of the following day), a similar incident was also reported by a young mother living close by. She was awakened by the sound of her daughter coughing but found herself unable to leave her bed.\n\nThe next day, September 1, there was a third reported incident. A Mrs. Kearney, of Marshall Avenue, Mattoon, reported smelling a strong, sweet odor around 11:00 pm. At first she dismissed the smell, believing it to be from flowers outside of the window, but the odor soon became stronger and she began to lose feeling in her legs. Mrs. Kearney panicked and her calls attracted her sister, Mrs. Ready, who was in the house at the time. Mrs. Ready also noticed the odor, and determined that it was coming from the direction of the bedroom window, which was open at the time. The police were contacted, but no evidence of a prowler was found. At around 12:30 am, Bert Kearney, Mrs. Kearney's husband (a local taxi driver who had been absent during the time of the attack), returned home to find an unidentified man hiding close to one of the house's windows. The man fled and Kearney was unable to catch him. Kearney's description of the prowler was of a tall man dressed in dark clothing, wearing a tight fitting cap. This description was reported in the local media, and became the common description of the gasser throughout the Mattoon incident. After the attack, Mrs. Kearney reported suffering from a burning sensation on her lips and throat, which were attributed to the effects of the gas.\n\nInitially, it was suspected that robbery was the primary motive for the attack. At the time of the incidents, the Kearneys had a large sum of money in the house, and it was surmised that the prowler could have seen Mrs. Kearney and her sister counting it earlier that evening. Local newspapers incorrectly reported this incident as being the first gasser attack.\n\nIn the days following the Kearney attack, there were half a dozen similar attacks (See table), though none of the purported victims were able to provide a clear description of the prowler, and no clues were found at the scene of the attacks. The first specimen of physical evidence was found on the night of September 5, when Carl and Beulah Cordes of North 21st Street returned home around 10:00 pm. After spending a few minutes in the house they noticed a piece of white cloth, slightly larger than a man's handkerchief, sitting on their porch next to the screen door. Beulah Cordes picked up the cloth and smelled it. As soon as she inhaled, she became violently ill. She described the effect as being similar to an electric shock. Her face quickly began to swell, she experienced a burning sensation in her mouth and throat, and began to vomit. As with other victims, she also reported feeling weak and experiencing partial paralysis of her legs. Beulah Cordes later hypothesized that the cloth had been left on the porch in order to knock out the family dog, which usually slept there, so that the prowler could gain access to the house unnoticed.\n\nIn addition to the cloth, a skeleton key, described as looking \"well used,\" was reportedly found on the sidewalk adjacent to the porch, along with a large, almost empty, tube of lipstick. The cloth was analyzed by the authorities, but they found no chemicals on it that could explain Beulah Cordes' reaction.\n\nThe same night a second incident was reported, this time in North 13th Street, at the home of Mrs. Leonard Burrell. She reported seeing a stranger break in through her bedroom window and then attempt to gas her.\n\nPublic concern over the alleged gassings quickly rose, the FBI became involved, and the local police issued a statement calling on residents to avoid lingering in residential areas, and warning that groups set up to patrol for the gasser should be disbanded for reasons of public safety. Chief of Police C.E. Cole also warned concerned citizens to exercise due restraint when carrying or discharging firearms.\n\nDuring this period, there was also an increase in physical evidence of attacks being reported, ranging from footprints allegedly being discovered underneath windows to tears being found in window screens.\n\nBy September 12, local police had received so many false alarms (mostly from citizens believing that they smelled gas, or that they had seen a prowler) that they reduced the priority afforded to gasser reports and announced that the entire incident was likely the result of explainable occurrences exacerbated by public fears, and a sign of the anxiety felt by women while local men were on war service.\n\nAfter the police announcement, gasser reports declined. The only incident of arguable note after that date was the case of Bertha Burch, who claimed she saw a gasser who was a woman dressed as a man.\n\n(List incomplete) \n\nThere are three primary theories about the Mattoon Mad Gasser incident: mass hysteria, industrial pollution, or an actual physical assailant. The events have also been written about by authors on the paranormal.\n\nAlmost two weeks after the Mattoon attacks began, the local Commissioner of Public Health, Thomas V. Wright, announced that there had undoubtedly been a number of gassing incidents, but that many instances were likely due to hysteria: residents hearing of alarming events, and then panicking when confronted by an out-of-place odor or a shadow at the window; Wright stated:\n\nOn September 12, local Chief of Police C. E. Cole took Wright's hypothesis a step further, announcing that there had likely been no gas attacks at all, and that the reported incidents had probably been triggered by chemicals carried on the wind from nearby industrial facilities and then exacerbated by public panic.\n\nWright and Cole's diagnosis was given further validity in 1945 when the \"Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology\" published \"The 'phantom anesthetist' of Mattoon: a field study of mass hysteria\" by Donald M. Johnson, which documented the Mattoon incident as a case study in mass hysteria. In 1959, his opinion was seconded by psychologist James P. Chaplin, and went on to form the basis for several subsequent studies of the phenomena of mass hysteria.\n\nMost of the physical symptoms recorded during the Botetourt and Mattoon incidents (including choking, swelling of mucus membranes, and weakness/temporary paralysis) have all been suggested symptoms of hysteria.\nSome experts believe that the mass hysteria was fueled by the headline in the \"Mattoon Journal-Gazette\", \"Mrs. Kearney and Daughter First Victims,\" which assumed there would be more attacks.\n\nOn September 12, Chief of Police Cole told a press conference that odors and symptoms reported may have been the result of pollutants or toxic waste released by nearby industrial plants, and speculated that carbon tetrachloride or trichloroethylene, both of which have a sweet odor and can induce symptoms similar to those reported by purported gasser victims, may have been the substance released.\n\nIn response to Cole's statement, Atlas-Imperial, the primary company implicated in this affair, released a statement of its own saying that their facility had only five gallons of carbon tetrachloride in stock, which was contained in firefighting equipment. Atlas-Imperial officials also denied that any quantities of trichloroethylene (an industrial solvent used by Atlas) could be responsible for sickness in the town, reasoning that it would have taken significant quantities of the chemical to sicken the townspeople, and that factory workers would have experienced similar symptoms long before anybody outside of the factory was affected.\n\nAt the time of the gassing, the Atlas plant had been certified as safe by the State Department of Health.\n\nAfter analyzing events, some researchers have concluded that at least some of the gasser incidents were the work of an actual attacker who carried out a series of gassings as reported by witnesses.\n\nSome writers on the paranormal have covered the events. Clark (1993) describes an illustration of the Gasser from Loren Coleman's \"Mysterious America\": \"[the artist] depicts him as a not-quite-human, possibly extraterrestrial, being\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23956012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23956012", "title": "Meditative poetry", "text": "Meditative poetry\n\nMeditative poetry combines the religious practice of meditation with verse. It occurs in many cultures, especially in Asian, European and Hindu cultures. Especially Buddhist and Hindu writers have developed extensive theories and phase models for meditation (Bevis 1988;73-88).\n\nIn Christianity, meditation became a major devotional practice during the Middle Ages, closely associated with the life in monasteries. Definitions vary, but there were various attempts to distinguish meditation from contemplation. While meditation focuses the mind on a text, preferably from the Bible, contemplation will take a concrete object, such as a candle, to concentrate the thoughts of the mind. Both, contemplation and meditation had the same end, to seek unity with God.\n\nDuring the Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation, Jesuits like Ignatius of Loyola formalized the process of meditation, as a channeling of memory, understanding and will. His method of meditation fell into three main parts: A) prayer and composition of place; B) the examination of points (analysis); the colloquies (the dialogue with God as a climax) (Martz 1962, 27-32). Jesuits brought this practice to England (Daly 1978: 72). Calvinist and other Protestants adapted meditation to Bible studies.\n\nPuritan meditation emphasized self-examination, applying Bible verses to contemporary, everyday life. In 1628, Thomas Taylor wrote a Puritan handbook \"Meditation from the Creatures\", recommending to include images from the sensible world (metaphorical of God's glory). In colonial New England, Thomas Hooker defined meditation in \"The Souls Preparation for Christ\" (1632) as follows: \"It is a settled exercise for two ends: first to make a further inquiry of the truth: and secondly, to make the heart affected therewith.\"\n\nIn 1648, the \"Shorter Catechism of the Westminster Assembly\" made meditation a duty for Puritans, and in 1649/50 Richard Baxter's \"The Saints' Everlasting Rest\" became the standard Puritan text, at its core prescribing meditation. Like Taylor and Hooker, Baxter admitted the use of the senses, that is, he included contemplation with meditation, based on figural correspondences with the Bible. By including contemplation with meditation, the Puritans laid the foundation for a rich tradition of verse meditation in the USA from its colonial beginnings to the twenty-first century (Daly 1978, 74-76, 79-81; Martz 1962).\n\nSoon Puritan ministers like Edward Taylor began to write meditations in verse, based on lines from the Bible and on sense perceptions, both allegorical of the greater glory of God. Anne Bradstreet provided the first published meditations purely based on the senses, celebrating nature's beauties as the creation of God. Using the analogy of Nature as God's second book, poetic meditations gradually secularized, replacing the early allegoric technique with a more symbolic reading of nature and affirming the self-reliant individual (Pearce 1961, 42-57). \n\nRalph Waldo Emerson's essay \"Nature\" (1836) freed the meditation from its theological underpinnings and its reliance on the Bible. He encouraged poets to view nature as a storehouse of symbols that they could use simply relying on their imagination. Walt Whitman and Emily Dickinson took meditation into this direction and paved the way for Modernist and Postmodernist practices in poetry (Lawson 1994).\n\nThe method of the three main steps (composition of place, examination of points, colloquies) had survived into the twentieth century in many poems, as had the devotional practice of verse meditation. Leading modernist poets like T. S. Eliot and Wallace Stevens began to fragmentarize the process, blending thoughts and sense perceptions in a sort of spiritual diary (Parini 1993,12). Postmodernist poets like John Ashbery deconstruct the contemplative aspect, the reference of the poem to an object outside itself, dissolving narrative or episodic structures of the spiritual diary in an ironic and open association (Bevis 1988:280-90), and thereby turning the poem itself into the object the reader can use for contemplation or meditation. \n\nMeditative poetry has often been correlated to Relaxation Through Poetry, which is simply using poetry to relax or relieve stress whenever someone is in need. It can also be seen in group visualization sessions where a speaker tries to get the audience to forget all about their stress by the use of calm and relaxing poetry.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "406083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406083", "title": "Middle Dutch", "text": "Middle Dutch\n\nMiddle Dutch is a collective name for a number of closely related West Germanic dialects whose ancestor was Old Dutch and was spoken and written between 1150 and 1500. Until the advent of Modern Dutch after 1500, there was no overarching standard language, but all dialects were mutually intelligible. During the period, a rich Medieval Dutch literature developed, which had not yet existed during Old Dutch. The various literary works of the time are often very readable for speakers of Modern Dutch since Dutch is a rather conservative language. Nonlinguists often refer to Middle Dutch as Diets.\n\nSeveral phonological changes occurred leading up to the Middle Dutch period.\n\nThe consonants of Middle Dutch differed little from those of Old Dutch. The most prominent change is the loss of dental fricatives. The sound was also phonemicised during this period, judging from loanwords that retain to this day.\n\nFor descriptions of the sounds and definitions of the terms, follow the links on the headings.\n\nNotes:\n\n\nMost notable in the Middle Dutch vowel system, when compared to Old Dutch, is the appearance of phonemic rounded front vowels, and the merger of all unstressed short vowels.\n\n\nLong vowels and diphthongs cannot be clearly distinguished in Middle Dutch, as many long vowels had or developed a diphthongal quality, while existing diphthongs could also develop into monophtongs. Sometimes, this occurred only in restricted dialects, other developments were widespread.\n\n\nMany details of the exact phonetics are uncertain, and seemed to have differed by dialect. The overall system is clear, however, as almost all the vowels remain distinct in modern Limburgish: , , , and appear in modern Limburgish as , , , and respectively.\n\nThe vowels , and developed from Old Dutch opening diphthongs, but their exact character in Middle Dutch is unclear. The following can be said:\n\nThe vowels , and , termed \"sharp-long\" and denoted with a circumflex \"ê\" \"ô\", developed from Old Dutch long vowels. The opening diphthong pronunciation was probably widespread, and perhaps once universal, as it is nowadays still found in both West Flemish and in Limburgish, at opposite ends of the Middle Dutch language area. In the general area in between, including standard Dutch, the vowels merged with the \"soft-long\" vowels during the early modern Dutch period.\n\nThe vowels , and , termed \"soft-long\" and denoted with a macron \"ē\" \"ō\", developed through the lengthening of Old Dutch short vowels in open syllables, but also frequently before . They were simple monophthongs in all Middle Dutch dialects, with the exception of western Flanders where later developed into . They might have been close-mid but also perhaps open-mid , and , as in modern Limburgish.\n\nThere were two open vowels, with \"sharp-long\" \"â\" developed from the Old Dutch long \"ā\", and \"soft-long\" \"ā\" being the result of lengthening. These two vowels were distinguished only in Limburgish and Low Rhenish at the eastern end, and in western Flemish and coastal Hollandic on the western end. The relative backness of the two vowels was opposite in the two areas that distinguished them.\n\nThe closing diphthong remained from the corresponding Old Dutch diphthong. It occurred primarily in umlauting environments, with appearing otherwise. Some dialects, particularly further west, had in all environments (thus \"cleene\" next to \"cleine\"). Limburgish preserved the diphthong wherever it was preserved in High German.\n\nThe closing diphthong has two different origins. In the vast majority of the Middle Dutch area, it developed through l-vocalization from older and followed by a dental consonant. In the eastern area, Limburg in particular, it was a remnant of the older diphthong as in High German, which had developed into elsewhere. L-vocalization occurred only in the modern period in Limburgish, and the distinction between and was preserved, being reflected as \"ów\" and \"aa\" respectively.\n\nPhonological changes that occurred during Middle Dutch:\n\n\nMiddle Dutch was not a single homogenous language. The language differed by area, with different areas having a different pronunciation and often using different vocabulary. The dialect areas were affected by political boundaries. The sphere of political influence of a certain ruler also created a sphere of linguistic influence, with the language within the area becoming more homogenous. Following, more or less, the political divisions of the time, several large dialect groups can be distinguished. However, the borders between them were not strong, and a dialect continuum existed between them, with spoken varieties near the edges of each dialect area showing more features of the neighbouring areas.\n\nBrabantian was spoken primarily in the Duchy of Brabant. It was an influential dialect during most of the Middle Ages, during the so-called \"Brabantian expansion\" in which the influence of Brabant was extended outwards into other areas. Compared to the other dialects, Brabantian was a kind of \"middle ground\" between the coastal areas on one hand, and the Rhineland and Limburg on the other. Brabantian Middle Dutch has the following characteristics compared to other dialects:\n\n\nFlemish, consisting today of West and East Flemish and Zealandic, was spoken in the County of Flanders. Though due to their intermediary position between West Flemish and Brabantian, the East Flemish dialects have also been grouped with the latter. Flemish had been influential during the earlier Middle Ages (the \"Flemish expansion\") but lost prestige to the neighbouring Brabantian in the 13th century. Its characteristics are:\n\n\nHollandic was spoken in the County of Holland. It was less influential during most of the Middle Ages but became more so in the 16th century during the \"Hollandic expansion\", during which the Eighty Years' War took place in the south. It shows the following properties:\n\n\nLimburgish was spoken by the people in the provinces of modern Dutch and Belgian Limburg. It was not clearly tied to one political area, instead being divided among various areas, including the Duchy of Limburg (which was south of modern Limburg). It was also the most divergent of the dialects.\n\n\nRhinelandic (\"Kleverlands\") was spoken around the area of the Duchy of Cleves, around the Lower Rhine. It represented a transitional dialect between Limburgish and Middle Low German.\n\n\nMiddle Dutch was written in the Latin alphabet, which was not designed for writing Middle Dutch so different scribes used different methods of representing the sounds of their language in writing. The traditions of neighbouring scribes and their languages led to a multitude of ways to write Middle Dutch. Consequently, spelling was not standardised but was highly variable and could differ by both time and place as various \"trends\" in spelling waxed and waned. Furthermore, a word could be found spelled differently in different occurrences within the same text. There was the matter of personal taste, and many writers thought it was more aesthetic to follow French or Latin practice, leading to sometimes rather unusual spellings.\n\nThe spelling was generally phonetic, and words were written based on how they were spoken rather than based on underlying phonemes or morphology. Final-obstruent devoicing was reflected in the spelling, and clitic pronouns and articles were frequently joined to the preceding or following word. Scribes wrote in their own dialect, and their spelling reflected the pronunciation of that particular scribe or of some prestige dialect by which the scribe was influenced. The modern Dutch word \"maagd\" (\"maiden\") for example was sometimes written as \"maghet\" or \"maegt\", but also \"meget\", \"magt\", \"maget\", \"magd\", and \"mecht\". Some spellings, such as \"magd\", reflect an early tendency to write the underlying phonemic value. However, by and large, spelling was phonetic, which is logical as people usually read texts out loud.\n\nModern dictionaries tend to represent words in a normalised spelling to form a compromise between the variable spellings on one hand and to represent the sounds of the language consistently. Thus, normalised spellings attempt to be a general or \"average\" spelling but still being accurate and true to the language.\n\nThe general practice was to write long vowels with a single letter in an open syllable and with two letters in a closed syllable. Which two letters were used varied among texts. Some texts, especially those in the east, do not do so and write long vowels with a single letter in all cases (as is the predominant rule in modern German).\n\nMiddle Dutch nouns inflected for number as well as case. The weakening of unstressed syllables merged many different Old Dutch classes of nominal declension. The result was a general distinction between strong and weak nouns. Eventually even these started to become confused, with the strong and weak endings slowly beginning to merge into a single declension class by the beginning of the modern Dutch period.\n\nThe strong nouns generally originated from the Old Dutch a-stem, i-stem and u-stem inflections. They mostly had a nominative singular with no ending, and a nominative plural in \"-e\" or, for some neuter nouns, with no ending. Most strong nouns were masculine or neuter. Feminines in this class were former i-stems, and could lack an ending in the dative singular, a remnant of the late Old Dutch inflection. In some rare occasions, the genitive singular was also endingless. Some nouns ended in \"-e\" in the singular also; these were primarily former ja-stems, which were masculine or neuter. A few were former i-stems with short stems. Nouns of this type tended to be drawn into the weak inflection by analogy.\n\nThe following table shows the inflection of the masculine noun \"day\", feminine \"deed\" and neuter \"bread\".\n\nWeak nouns were characterised by the ending \"-en\" throughout the plural. The singular ended in \"-e\".\n\nThe following table shows the inflection of the masculine noun \"bow, arc\".\n\nMiddle Dutch adjectives inflected according to the gender, case and number of the noun they modified.\n\nThe Germanic distinction between strong and weak, or indefinite and definite inflection, was fairly minimal in Middle Dutch, appearing only in the masculine and neuter nominative singular. These forms received an \"-e\" ending when a definite word (demonstrative, article) preceded, and had no ending otherwise. Adjectives were uninflected when connected through a copula. Thus, even for feminine nouns, no ending appeared: \"die vrouwe is goet\" \"the lady is good\".\n\nSome adjectives, namely the former ja-stems, had an \"-e\" even in the strong and copular form, e.g. \"die vrouwe is cleine\" \"the lady is small\".\n\nMiddle Dutch pronouns differed little from their modern counterparts. The main differences were in the second person with the development of a T-V distinction. The second-person plural pronoun \"ghi\" slowly gained use as a respectful second-person singular form. The original singular pronoun \"du\" gradually fell out of use during the Middle Dutch period. A new second person plural pronoun was created by contracting \"gij/jij\" and \"lui\" ('people') forming \"gullie/jullie\" (which this literally means 'you people').\nNote: There are several other forms.\n\nDefinite Article<BR>\n\nMiddle Dutch mostly retained the Old Dutch verb system. Like all Germanic languages, it distinguished strong, weak and preterite-present verbs as the three main inflectional classes. Verbs were inflected in present and past tense, and in three moods: indicative, subjunctive and imperative.\n\nThe weakening of unstressed vowels affected the distinction between the indicative and subjunctive moods, which had largely been determined by the vowel of the inflectional suffix in Old Dutch. In Middle Dutch, with all unstressed vowels merging into one, the subjunctive became distinguished from the indicative only in the singular but was identical to it in the plural, and also in the past tense of weak verbs. That led to a gradual decline in the use of the subjunctive, and it has been all but lost entirely in modern Dutch.\n\nThe seven classes of strong verb common to the Germanic languages were retained. The four principal parts were the present tense, first- and third-person singular past tense, remaining past tense, and the past participle.\n\nIn classes 6 and 7, there was no distinction between the two different vowels of the past tense. In classes 4 and 5, the difference was primarily one of length, since \"ā\" and \"â\" were not distinguished in most dialects. The difference between \"ê\" and \"ē\", and between \"ô\" and \"ō\", found in classes 1 and 2, was a bit more robust, but also eventually waned in the development to modern Dutch. Consequently, the distinction was mostly lost. Class 3, which retained a clear distinction that did not rely on vowel length, was levelled in favour of the \"o\" of the plural.\n\nIn classes with a lengthened vowel in the present, the singular imperative often appears with a short vowel instead, e.g. \"les\", \"drach\". An alternative form, with final \"-e\" by analogy with the weak verbs, also occurs.\n\nThe eastern dialects occasionally show \"i\" in the second- and third-person singular present indicative forms, instead of \"e\". This is a remnant of older i-mutation in these forms. Umlaut is also sometimes found in the past subjunctive in the east.\n\nMiddle Dutch retained weak verbs as the only productive class of verbs. While Old Dutch still had two different classes of weak verbs (and remnants of a third), this distinction was lost in Middle Dutch with the weakening of unstressed syllables.\n\nThe past tense was formed with a suffix \"-ed-\", which generally lost its \"e\" through syncope and thus came to be directly attached to the preceding stem. This triggered voicing assimilation, so that \"t\" appeared whenever the preceding stem ended in a voiceless consonant. This phenomenon remains in modern Dutch. Unsyncopated forms, which retain the fuller suffix \"-ed-\", are sometimes found, especially with stems ending in a labial or velar consonant.\n\nSome former class 1 weak verbs retained so-called \"Rückumlaut\". These verbs had undergone umlaut in the present tense, but the umlaut-triggering vowel was syncopated in the past tense already in Old Dutch, preventing umlaut from taking hold there. Thus, \"senden\" had the first- and third-person singular past tense \"sande\". These verbs tended to be reinterpreted as strong verbs in later Middle Dutch; \"sande\" itself gave rise to the modern \"zond\", mirroring strong class 3.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1237050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1237050", "title": "Music of Guam", "text": "Music of Guam\n\nThe music of Guam encompasses the works of many Chamorro popular musicians, including KACY, Flora Baza Quan, Daniel De Leon Guerrero, singer-songwriter J. D. Crutch, who is on the local Napu Records and who released a best-selling local album with \"Guinaifen Manglo\". The state song of Guam is \"Guam Hymn\" by Ramon Sablan, adopted in 1919. Flora Baza Quan is especially notable throughout the territory, and is known as the \"Queen of Chamorro Music\".\n\nModern music from Guam includes elements of American, Spanish, Filipino and Polynesian music. The Spanish and Mexicans contributed a type of song called \"serenatas\" to the culture of Guam. Some traditional Catholic songs in the Spanish language, including \"Mil Albricias\", \"Pastores a Belen\", \"Santa Maria de la Merced\" or \"Nochebuena Noche Santa\" and some traditional love songs including \"A mi morena\", \"Ay que triste desventura\", \"Cancion de Antonio Acosta\" or \"Te quiero amar\" are preserved.\n\nMusic institutions in Guam include the University of Guam's Fine Arts Department, Guam Symphony Society, Guam Choristers, Cantate Guam, and the Gregorian Institute of Guam. The Guam Symphony Society was founded in 1967, and hosts concerts such as the Symphony Seaside Concert and the Musikan Famagu'on for children. The two major local record labels are Napu Records and StelStar Records. In addition to the previously stated, there is the government sponsored Guam Territorial Band. The Guam territorial band hosts concerts yearly often free to the public, as well as representing Guam music on an international stage.\n\nTraditional Chamorro instruments include the belembaotuyan, a hollow gourd stringed instrument, and the nose flute. Kantan singing is also popular. It is a kind of work song, begun by one person teasing another in verse form, and then continuing through a group one individual in turn.\n\nChamorro chants and Kantan Chamorrita (\"Chamorrita singing\"), a kind of Chamorro poetry, are also important elements of Guamanian music. Kantan Chamorrita is a kind of improvised poetry with a call and response format that is documented back to 1602 and remains a vital part of Chamorro culture. In Kantan Chamorrita, individuals and groups trade witty remarks at each other as part of a debate. These songs are \"ancient folk songs, arranged in quatrains of two octosyllabic couplets, which, according to some writers, are composed on a single melody, the variations depending on the individual style of performance. The distinctive features are spontaneous improvisation and a dialogue performance between two or more people, depending on the occasion and function.\"\n\nThe musical duo Gus and Doll (Agusto Quichocho and his wife Josephine Sablan Quichocho) were prominent performers of Chamorro music, active until the late 1980s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52787464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52787464", "title": "New Theatre Quarterly", "text": "New Theatre Quarterly\n\nNew Theatre Quarterly (NTQ) is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering theatre studies. It is published by Cambridge University Press. \"New Theatre Quarterly\" succeeds Theatre Quarterly (1971–81). Over the years, \"NTQ\" has developed a reputation for a \"down-to-earth approach\" to theatre studies.\n\nIts general editors are Maria Shevtsova of Goldsmiths, University of London, and Simon Trussler of Rose Bruford College. Shevtsova replaced Clive Barker, who died in 2005. Trussler and Barker were the journals founding editors.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "22547720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22547720", "title": "Niuean literature", "text": "Niuean literature\n\nWritten Niuean literature (as distinct from oral literature) does not have an established tradition. The island's one notable writer is the poet and novelist John Pule, author of the novels \"The Shark that Ate the Sun\" (\"Ko E Mago Ne Kai E La\", 1992), \"Burn My Head in Heaven\" (\"Tugi e ulu haaku he langi\", 2000) and \"Restless people\" (\"Tagata kapakiloi\", 2004), as well as of a number of poems.\n\n"}
{"id": "52141528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52141528", "title": "Novoland", "text": "Novoland\n\nNovoland (), is a fictional universe, with a known world of 3 continents and 9 provinces; divided into the prosperous Eastern Land and the nomadic Eight Tribes. It spans a history of 10000 years divided into 10 eras and about 16 dynasties.\n\nThere are 30 books written for this universe, with 7 principal authors writing novels for it. The project was started in early 2000s, inspired by the film \"Lord of the Rings\".\n\n\nThe Shang Province is located in the West of the Northern Continent, and the land is mostly occupied by Titans. Shang is bounded on two sides by sea (Huan Sea & _), and to the North is the vast snow-capped mountains of an ice cold continent; on the eastern border is the Han province and the Fire and Thunder Plains. It has an area of 25000km. Shang can be split into three main terrains: Shang Plains in the North, Mangu mountain ranges in the East, and Tianchi mountain ranges in the West. The Mangu mountain ranges are the tallest in the Northern Continent, with an average altitude of over 10000 chi (1 chi = 1/3 metre).\n\nThe Central and Eastern areas of Shang are mostly flat, and long periods of erosion have formed many vast and smoothly rolling plains with some small hills scattered throughout. The Western area is a volcanic belt, collectively named the Ice and Fire Earthsea, and has tens of large active volcanoes and many more smaller or dormant volcanoes. Even further West are volcanic island groups located in the Boundless Ocean.\n\nThis is a land of ice and fire, and the corresponding climates are changeable too. The Shang Plains have a cold climate, with low temperatures in summer and lots of rain. No matter if it is winter or summer, it can still rain or snow. The plains are not suitable for trees to grow, so shrubs and tundra and plants are the most common vegetation. The South-Western areas have plenty of geothermal energy, visible woody plants make up small forests, and weed meadows grow near hot springs and places protected form the wind. The climate of plains in the Central-Eastern area of Shang is slightly more complicated than the Han province, with mostly coniferous forests and little broadleaf trees. Forest steppes and grasslands are distributed along the Han border.\n\nThe Shang Prefecture is ruled by the Giants, long time enemies of the humans.\n\nHan is frequently translated as sorrow, spite, rancor, regret, resentment or grief, among many other attempts to explain a concept that has no English equivalent. The Han Province reflects this by being a barren and desolate land with only a small fertile area in the middle. The entrance / exit between the Han Province and Tianqi City of the Zhong Prefecture is protected by a fortress at the Shangyang Pass.\n\nRuled by the humans, its Capital is Tianqi City. The seven dynasties so far have been Zhao, Xi, Yin, Xie, Ben, Cheng, and Duan.\n\n\nThere are 12 primary stars in the universe of Novoland.\n\n\n\n\nUnlike other authors, he focuses on commoner’s tales rather than heroes and monarchs.\n\nHe wrote mostly short novels telling a single event rather than long epics.\n"}
{"id": "2806649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2806649", "title": "Prime (film)", "text": "Prime (film)\n\nPrime is a 2005 American romantic comedy-drama film starring Uma Thurman, Meryl Streep, and Bryan Greenberg. It was written and directed by Ben Younger. The film grossed $67,937,503 worldwide.\n\nRafi is a recently divorced, 37-year-old career woman from Manhattan who becomes romantically involved with David, a talented 23-year-old painter from the Upper West Side. Rafi shares all her secrets with her therapist Lisa who, unbeknownst to Rafi, is David's mother. Lisa is supportive of Rafi's relationship with a younger man before she learns who he is, discovers the connection and finds herself not only faced with the ethical and moral dilemma of counselling David's girlfriend, but also the reality that she feels differently about the relationship now that she knows her son is involved. Lisa consults her own therapist, and they decide that it is in the best interest of her patient Rafi for Lisa to continue treatment, as long as the relationship remains the \"fling\" it appears to be.\n\nHowever, Lisa soon realizes that the relationship is serious, and tells Rafi that she is David's mother. Feeling embarrassed and betrayed, Rafi ends her treatment with Lisa. Their differences causing problems between them, Rafi and David break up. A couple of weeks later, David is enjoying a night on the town with his best friend; he gets drunk and ends up sleeping with Sue, Rafi's friend from work. The same day, after bumping into each other at the supermarket and going back to David's place, David and Rafi start seeing each other again. They also try to make the relationship stronger by going to a Friday night dinner with David's family. The rift between Rafi and Lisa is patched up, although Rafi brings up the possibility of her and David having children, to which Lisa reacts strongly. A few days later, Rafi discovers that David had slept with Sue, and David and Rafi fight. After sulking for some time, David goes to seek Lisa's help as both his mother and as a therapist. She advises him to do what he can to keep the relationship, because it was through Rafi that Lisa was able to understand David's career as an artist. David goes back to Rafi to apologize and offer to give her a child because that is what she wants the most. Rafi realizes how deep David's love must be for him to make such a sacrifice. Somehow, they both conclude that love is not enough to keep a relationship going, and they break up.\n\nA year later, David and his friend are seen leaving the first restaurant where he and Rafi had their first proper date. Going back to retrieve his forgotten hat, David spots Rafi but she does not see him; he gets his hat, rushes out the door, and hides. He defrosts the glass a bit to watch her, and she turns around and sees him. They share a smile before parting.\n\nThe role of Rafi was originally going to be played by Sandra Bullock. Bullock completed rehearsals with Younger and Greenberg, but pulled out just before filming began, because she wanted major script changes, and the director was not willing to change the script.\n\nBryan Greenberg's trip to New York to film this movie is documented as part of HBO's semi-reality series \"Unscripted\".\n\nThe soundtrack is a mix of different music genres such as jazz and pop.\nThe composer of this soundtrack is Ryan Shore.\n\n\nRotten Tomatoes gave the film score of 50% based on 117 reviews.\nMetacritic gave the film a weighted mean score of 58% based on 32 reviews\n\nThe film opened at #3 at the U.S. box office, making $6,220,935 USD in its opening weekend, behind \"The Legend of Zorro\" and \"Saw II\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2391239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2391239", "title": "Revolving stage", "text": "Revolving stage\n\nA revolving stage is a mechanically controlled platform within a theatre that can be rotated in order to speed up the changing of a scene within a show. A fully revolving set was an innovation constructed by the hydraulics engineer Tommaso Francini for an elaborately produced pageant, \"Le ballet de la délivrance de Renaud\", which was presented for Marie de Medici in January 1617 at the Palais du Louvre and noted with admiration by contemporaries. Such a stage is also commonly referred to as a turntable.\n\nThe first major use of revolving stages began in Japan during Kabuki performances. In the 1750s, Namiki Shōzō, previously just known for his work as a theatrical dramatist in Japan, introduced a stage design known as a \"mawari butai\". The literal English translation is \"revolving stage\"; however, the denotation is quite different from the modern understanding of the word. Initially, the stages were wheeled circular platforms that were fixed on a stage and turned manually. A wall running through the diameter of the circle allowed a quick reveal of other Kabuki performers and chanters. Although the platform did indeed revolve, the problems of visual scenic changers still hindered the spectacle. Through trial and error methods involving the issues still at hand in the Kabuki theatre, the platform eventually became flush with the immobile sections of the stage. This in turn placed the mechanism below the stage and hid the manual labor. After this downward shift, the manual technology only increased. One circle, in the 1820s in Japan, was placed inside another circle and was used for various transitions. Some special effects included one boat passing another by the two rings turning against each other. This was just an example of many tricks that the Kabuki theatre developed. Revolving stages were a huge step towards the stylized form Kabuki theatre is known for today. They made it possible to depict supernatural transformations and use more creative entrances and exits. Modern Kabuki theatre companies still employ a rotating stage but in a much smaller capacity. For the most part, the wall on the circle is flush with the wall behind the chanters, and a rotation is used to allow new head chanters to be revealed seamlessly.\n\nThe first revolving stage in the western world was built by Karl Lautenschläger (1843–1906) in 1896 in Munich, Germany. Lautenschläger studied under Carl Brandt at the court theatre in Darmstad. From there he went to Munich, where he worked for 22 years and became the head machinist at the Royal theatre. He is known for his revolving stage, sometimes called the Lautenschläger stage, which later acquired the legacy of being called the new Shakespeare stage. The stage was installed at the Residenz Theatre for a performance of \"Don Giovanni\", an opera by Wolfgang Mozart. The revolve at the Residenz Theatre was fifty feet in diameter and was raised slightly off of the regular stage floor. With the proscenium, a little less than a fourth of the revolve was visible to the audience. Lautenschläger used electricity to power the turntable, with the table turning on rollers, which ran on a circular track. This particular revolve was split into quarter sections and allowed four scenes to be set at the top of the show. The rotating stage allowed for depth, like landscapes with views in the distance and a more three-dimensional set in front of the walls of the revolve.\n\nFor theatres like the Dresden, that did not have an underside to their stage, each sector of the revolve would have two wheels operating directly on the stage floor and propelled by a small motor fixed to the underside of the turntable. Some revolves had only two separate sections while some had as many as seven. Not all sections had to be split into equal proportions. Sections could be very shallow or very deep, according to what the scene required. Rectangular sections were even used many times for indoor scenes. Some revolves had sections that connected to each other to give the appearance of travel and help give the set perspective. Eventually traps, elevators and rotating stages combined in some theatres. The individual sections of the turntable could be lowered and raised to and from underneath the stage to make scene changes even more efficient.\n\nIn 1889 the Munich court theatre hired Lautenschläger to design a stage that was more efficient for Shakespearean productions, which required many changes of scenery. His rotating stage seemed to be the perfect solution. Other theatres and other companies performing Shakespeare quickly began to use the rotating stage, and it started to become known as the new Shakespeare stage. This was probably the biggest role for the rotating stage in its history.\n\n\n\nToday rotating stages are still in use, but benefit from the rise of automation in scenic design. \"Les Misérables\" is one of the most notable modern uses of a rotating stage. It was recorded to have made sixty-three rotations in each performance during its original run in London. After being scrapped for the 25th anniversary revival, it has been reintroduced in the West End production. \"Hamilton\" is also notable in its use of a double rotating stage, known as a concentric revolve, with one revolving stage inside of the other. This allows for more flexibility by having each rotate in different directions or at different speeds.\n\nThe revolving stage is also sometimes used at concerts and music festivals, especially larger ones, to allow one band to set up and check their equipment while another opening band is performing. This allows for a much faster transition between an opening band and the next one on the lineup.\n\nIt is common practice to reverse the rotation of a rotating stage as frequently as possible to prevent cables from becoming twisted, and eventually breaking.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14945059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14945059", "title": "Reykjavík Theatre Company", "text": "Reykjavík Theatre Company\n\nThe Reykjavík Theatre Company (RTC) was founded in 1897 when two existing companies in Reykjavík combined, performing in the then newly built Iðnó (Craftsmens' House). With Indriði Einarsson (1851-1939) as its Director, RTC became the fertile ground in which Iceland's professional theatre developed. Einarsson's dedication to professional theatre champion Sigurður Guðmundsson's (1833-1874) vision of a permanent National Theatre was key in the evolution of Iceland's professional theatre.\n\nRTC was the birthplace of Icelandic theatre, eventually giving rise to Iceland's National Theatre in 1950. Some of Iceland's most renowned talent, like Stefanía Guðmundsdóttir (1876-1926), played the RTC stage. RTC has had many Directors over the years, including Einar H. Kvaran (1859-1938), Sigurjónsson, Indridi Waage (1902-1963), Lárus Pálsson (1914-1968), Gerd Grieg, Stephensen, Brynjólfur Jóhannesson (1897-1974) and Sveinn Einarsson (b. 1934). Einarsson took RTC into its modern professional era between 1963 and 1972, becoming Director of The National Theatre of Iceland in 1972. In 1989, RTC moved to the new City Theatre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56324270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56324270", "title": "Riddle-tales (ancient and medieval)", "text": "Riddle-tales (ancient and medieval)\n\nRiddle-tales (stories featuring riddle-contests) frequently provide the context for the preservation of ancient riddles for posterity, and as such have both been studied as a narrative form in their own right, and for the riddles they contain. Such contests are a subset of wisdom contests more generally. They tend to fall into two groups: testing the wisdom of a king or other aristocrat; and testing the suitability of a suitor. Correspondingly, the Aarne–Thompson classification systems catalogue two main folktale-types including riddle-contests: AT 927, Outriddling the Judge, and AT 851, The Princess Who Can Not Solve the Riddle. Such stories invariably include answers to the riddles posed: 'the audience cannot be left dangling'.\n\nThe earliest example of a wisdom contest between kings is the Sumerian epic \"Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta\", from the first half of the second millennium BC, closely followed by the Egyptian \"The Quarrel of Apophis and Seqenenre\", fragmentarily attested in a thirteenth-century BC papyrus about the Pharaoh Apophis and Seqenenre Tao. \"The Quarrel of Apophis and Segenenre\" is echoed in the later \"Tale of Setne Khamwas and Si-Osire\", attested on papyrus in the Roman period, showing that this type of story continued to circulate in Egypt. However, these tales do not involve riddles as such.\n\nThese Egyptian stories, probably via lost Greek material, seem to have been an inspiration for the account of a wisdom-contest between Pharaoh Amasis II and the king of Ethiopia, in which the sage Bias of Priene helps the Pharaoh by solving the riddles, in Plutarch's first- or second-century AD \"Convivium Septem Sapientium\". At least one of Plutarch's sources was probably shared by the \"Aesop Romance\", which originated around the fourth century BC (chs 102-8, 111–23). The \"Aesop Romance\" also drew on similar stories of wisdom contests in various versions of the \"Story of Ahikar\".\n\nThe following list is based on the survey by Goldberg.\n"}
{"id": "19269621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19269621", "title": "Risk inclination model", "text": "Risk inclination model\n\nRisk inclination (RI) is defined as a mental disposition (i.e., confidence) toward an eventuality (i.e., a predicted state) that has consequences (i.e., either loss or gain). The risk inclination model (RIM) is composed of three constructs: confidence weighting, restricted context, and the risk inclination formula. Each of these constructs connects an outside observer with a respondent’s inner state of risk taking toward knowledge certainty.\n\nThe confidence weighting (CW) construct is concerned with indices that connect an outside observer to the respondent’s inner state of knowledge certainty toward specific content. Underpinning the CW construct of the risk inclination model is the individual's experience of coherence or rightness. It is used to calibrate the relationship between a respondent’s objective and observable measures of risk taking (i.e., weighted indices toward answer selections) with his or her subjective inner feelings of knowledge certainty (i.e., feelings of rightness).\n\nThe restricted context (RC) construct is based on Jean Piaget’s theory of equilibration and allows the outside observer to measure the way a respondent manages competing inner states of knowledge certainty during the application of confidence weights among items within the restricted total point value (TPV) context of the test. RC sets the parameters where risk taking toward knowledge certainty occurs. These parameters are important because they allow an observer to scale and thereby measure the respondent’s inner state of equilibration among related levels of knowledge certainty. Equilibration is defined as a self-regulatory process that reflects the biological drive to produce an optimal state of balance between a person’s cognitive structures (i.e., inner state) and their environment.\n\nThe risk inclination formula (RIF) construct is based upon Varignon's theorem and quantifies feelings of rightness toward knowledge certainty. RIF uses the Principle of Moments or Varignon’s Theorem to calculate the first factorial moment of probability in order to define this center point of balance among all confidence weights (i.e., the point of Risk Equilibration). The formal derivation of the RIF is divided into three separate calculations: (1) calculation of the first factorial moment, (2) calculation of inclination, and (3) calculation of the risk inclination score.\n"}
{"id": "36314624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36314624", "title": "Rum ration", "text": "Rum ration\n\nThe rum ration (also called tot) was a daily amount of rum given to sailors on Royal Navy ships. It was abolished in 1970 after concerns that regular intakes of alcohol would lead to unsteady hands when working machinery.\n\nThe rum ration, or \"tot\", consisted of of rum at 95.5 proof (54.6% ABV), given out to every sailor at midday. Senior ratings (petty officers and above) received their rum neat, whilst for junior ratings it was diluted with two parts of water to make of grog. The rum ration was served from one particular barrel, also known as the \"Rum Tub\", which was ornately decorated and was made of oak and reinforced with brass bands with brass letters saying \"The Queen, God Bless Her\".\n\nNot all sailors necessarily drew their rum: each had the option to be marked in the ship's books as \"G\" (for Grog) or \"T\" (for Temperance, if they were members of the Temperance Movement). Sailors who opted to be \"T\" were given three pence (3d) a day instead of the rum ration, although most preferred the rum. \n\nThe time when the rum ration was distributed was called \"Up Spirits\", which was between 11 am and 12 noon. A common cry from the sailors was \"Stand fast the Holy Ghost\". This was in response to the bosun's call \"Up Spirits\". Each mess had a \"Rum Bosun\" who would collect the rum from the officer responsible for measuring the right number of tots for each mess. The officers did not get a rum ration. \n\nTot glasses were kept separate from any other glasses. They were washed on the outside, but never inside, in the belief that residue of past tots would stick to the side of the glass and make the tot even stronger. Sailors under 20 were not permitted a rum ration, and were marked on the ship's books as \"UA\" (Under Age).\n\nA sailor's ration of alcohol was originally beer with a daily ration of one gallon (i.e. eight pints). This official allowance continued until after the Napoleonic Wars. When beer was not available, as it would often spoil easily, it could be substituted by a pint of wine or half a pint of spirits depending on what was locally available. In later years, the political influence of the West Indian planters led to rum being given the preference over arrack and other spirits. The half pint of spirits was originally issued neat; it is said that sailors would \"prove\" its strength by checking that gunpowder doused with rum would still burn (thus verifying that rum was at least 57% ABV). \n\nThe practice of compulsorily diluting rum in the proportion of half a pint to one quart of water (1:4) was first introduced in the 1740s by Admiral Edward Vernon (known as Old Grog, because of his habitual grogram cloak). The ration was also split into two servings, one between 10 am and noon and the other between 4 and 6 pm. In 1756 Navy regulations required adding small quantities of lemon or lime juice to the ration, to prevent scurvy. The rum itself was often procured from distillers in Jamaica, Trinidad & Tobago and the British Virgin Islands. Rations were cut in half in 1823 and again in half, to the traditional amount, in 1850.\nThe abolition of the rum ration had been discussed in Parliament in 1850 and again in 1881 however nothing came of it. In 1970, Admiral Peter Hill-Norton abolished the rum ration as he felt it could have led to sailors failing a breathalyser test and being less capable to manage complex machinery. This decision to end the rum ration was taken after the Secretary of State for Defence had taken opinions from several ranks of the Navy. Ratings were instead allowed to purchase beer, and the amount allowed was determined, according to the MP David Owen, by the amount of space available for stowing the extra beer in ships. The last rum ration was on 31 July 1970 and became known as Black Tot Day as sailors were unhappy about the loss of the rum ration. There were reports that the day involved sailors throwing tots into the sea and the staging of a mock funeral in a training camp. In place of the rum ration, sailors were allowed to buy three cans of beer a day and improved recreational facilities. While the rum ration was abolished, the order to \"splice the mainbrace\", awarding sailors an extra tot of rum for good service, remained as a command which could only be given by the Monarch and is still used to recognise good service. Rum rations are also given on special occasions: in recent years, example included the 100th anniversary of the Canadian Royal Navy in 2010 and after the Queen's Diamond Jubilee celebrations in 2012.\n\nIn the United States Navy, the daily ration was of distilled spirits until 1842, when it was reduced to . It was abolished in 1862. \n\nWhile the Royal Australian Navy never issued the rum ration, their sailors were entitled to the rum ration when they were on Royal Navy ships until 1921. \n\nThe Royal Canadian Navy abolished the rum ration in 1972, and the last navy to issue the rum ration regularly, the Royal New Zealand Navy, abolished the practice on 28 February 1990.\n\n"}
{"id": "52673644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52673644", "title": "Sandars Lectures", "text": "Sandars Lectures\n\nThe Sandars Readership in Bibliography is an annual lecture series given at Cambridge University. Instituted in 1895 at the behest of Mr Samuel Sandars of Trinity College (1837–1894), who left a £2000 bequest to the University, the series has continued down to the present day. Together with the Panizzi Lectures at the British Library and the Lyell Lectures at Oxford University, it is considered one of the major British bibliographical lecture series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665637", "title": "Santa Muerte", "text": "Santa Muerte\n\nNuestra Señora de la Santa Muerte () (Spanish for Our Lady of Holy Death), often shortened to Santa Muerte, is a female deity or folk saint in Mexican and Mexican-American folk Catholicism. A personification of death, she is associated with healing, protection, and safe delivery to the afterlife by her devotees. Despite condemnation by leaders of the Catholic Church, her religion has become increasingly prominent since the turn of the 21st century.\n\nSince the pre-Columbian era Mexican culture has maintained a certain reverence towards death, which can be seen in the widespread commemoration of the Day of the Dead. Elements of that celebration include the use of skeletons to remind people of their mortality. The worship of Santa Muerte is condemned by the Catholic Church in Mexico as invalid, but it is increasingly firmly entrenched in Mexican culture.\n\nSanta Muerte generally appears as a skeletal female figure, clad in a long robe and holding one or more objects, usually a scythe and a globe. Her robe can be of any color, as more specific images of the figure vary widely from devotee to devotee and according to the rite being performed or the petition being made.\n\nAs the worship of Santa Muerte was clandestine until the 20th century, most prayers and other rites have been traditionally performed privately at home. Since the beginning of the 21st century, worship has become more public, especially in Mexico City after a believer called Enriqueta Romero initiated her famous Mexico City shrine in 2001. The number of believers in Santa Muerte has grown over the past ten to twenty years, to an estimated 10-20 million followers in Mexico, the United States, and parts of Central America. Santa Muerte has similar male counterparts in the Americas, such as the skeletal folk saints San La Muerte of Paraguay and Rey Pascual of Guatemala.\n\nThe deity's Spanish name, \"Santa Muerte\", can be translated into English as either \"Sacred Death\" or \"Holy Death\", although religious studies scholar R. Andrew Chesnut believed that the former was a more accurate translation because it \"better reveals\" her identity as a folk saint. A variant of this is \"Santísima Muerte\", which is translated as \"Most Holy Death\" or \"Most Saintly Death\", and devotees often call her \"Santisma Muerte\" during their rituals.\n\nSanta Muerte is also known by a wide variety of other names: the Skinny Lady (\"la Flaquita\"), the Bony Lady (\"la Huesuda\"), the White Girl (\"la Niña Blanca\"), the White Sister (\"la Hermana Blanca\"), the Pretty Girl (\"la Niña Bonita\"), the Powerful Lady (\"la Dama Poderosa\"), the Godmother (\"la Madrina\"), \"Señora de las Sombras\" (\"Lady of Shadows\"), \"Señora Blanca\" (\"White Lady\"), \"Señora Negra\" (\"Black Lady\"), \"Niña Santa\" (\"Holy Girl\"), \"Santa Sebastiana\" (\"Saint Sebastienne\", i.e. \"Holy Sebastian\") or \"Doña Bella Sebastiana\" (\"Beautiful Lady Sebastienne\") and \"La Flaca\" (\"The Skinny Woman\").\n\nAlthough the origins of the worship of Our Lady of Holy Death are subject to debate, it is most likely a syncretism between pre-Columbian Mesoamerican religion and Spanish culture. Mesoamerica had always maintained a certain reverence towards death, which manifested itself among the religious practices of ancient Mexico, including in the Aztec religion. Death was personified in Aztec and other cultures in the form of humans with half their flesh missing, symbolizing the duality of life and death. From their ancestors the Aztecs inherited the gods Mictlantecuhtli and Mictecacihuatl, the lord and lady of Mictlan, the realm of those dead who died of natural causes. In order for the deceased to be accepted into Mictlan, offerings to the lord and lady of death were necessary. In European Christian tradition, many paintings employed skeletons to symbolize human mortality.\n\nINAH researcher Elsa Malvido Miranda notes that the worship of skeletal figures has precedent in Europe during times of epidemics. They would be dressed up as royalty with scepters and crowns, and be seated on thrones to symbolize the triumph of death. In Latin America, the human skeleton was used to remind Catholics of the need for a \"holy death,\" (\"muerte santa\") fully confessed of sins. As relics, bones are also associated with certain saints, such as San Pascual Bailón in Guatemala and Chiapas.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, the worship of death diminished but was never eradicated. John Thompson of the University of Arizona's Southwest Center has found references dating to 18th-century Mexico. According to one account, recorded in the annals of the Spanish Inquisition, indigenous people in central Mexico tied up a skeletal figure, whom they addressed as \"Santa Muerte,\" and threatened it with lashings if it did not perform miracles or grant their wishes. Another syncretism between Pre-Columbian and Christian beliefs about death can be seen in Day of the Dead celebrations. During these celebrations, many Mexicans flock to cemeteries to sing and pray for friends and family members who have died. Children partake in the festivities by eating chocolate or candy in the shape of skulls.\n\nIn contrast to the Day of the Dead, overt veneration of Santa Muerte remained clandestine until the middle of the 20th century. When it went public in sporadic occurrences, reaction was often harsh, and included the desecration of shrines and altars. At the beginning of the 20th century, José Guadalupe Posada created a similar, but secular figure by the name of Catrina, a female skeleton dressed in fancy clothing of the period. Posada began to evoke the idea that the universality of death generated a fundamental equality amongst man. His paintings of skeletons in daily life and that La Catrina were meant to represent the arbitrary and violent nature of an unequal society.\n\nModern artists began to reestablish Posada's styles as a national artistic objective to push the limits of upper-class tastes; an example of Posada's influence is Diego Rivera's mural painting \"Dream of a Sunday Afternoon in the Alameda Central\", which features La Catrina. The image of the skeleton and the Day of the Dead ritual that used to be held underground became commercialized and domesticated. The skeletal images became that of folklore, encapsulating Posada's viewpoit that death is an equalizer.\n\nSkeletons were put in extravagant dresses with braids in their hair, altering the image of Posada's original La Catrina. As opposed to being the political message Posada intended, the skeletons of equality became skeletal images which were appealing to tourists and the national folkloric Mexican identity.\nVeneration of Santa Muerte was documented in the 1940s in working-class neighborhoods in Mexico City such as Tepito. Other sources state that the revival has its origins around 1965 in the state of Hidalgo. At present Santa Muerte can be found throughout Mexico and also in parts of the United States and Central America. There are videos, web sites, and music composed in honor of this folk saint. The religion of Santa Muerte first came to widespread popular attention in Mexico in August 1998, when police arrested notorious gangster Daniel Arizmendi López and discovered a shrine to the saint in his home. Widely reported in the press, this discovery inspired the common association between Santa Muerte, violence, and criminality in Mexican popular consciousness.\n\nSince 2001, there has been a \"meteoric growth\" in the size of the Santa Muerte beliefs, largely due to her reputation for performing miracles.\nWorship has been made up of roughly two million adherents, mostly in the State of Mexico, Guerrero, Veracruz, Tamaulipas, Campeche, Morelos, and Mexico City, with a recent spread to Nuevo León. In the late 2000s, the founder of Mexico City's first Santa Muerte church, David Romo, estimated that there were around 5 million devotees in Mexico, constituting approximately 5% of the country's population.\n\nBy the late 2000s Santa Muerte had become Mexico's second-most popular saint, after Saint Jude, and had come to rival the country's \"national patroness\", the Virgin of Guadalupe. The religion's rise was controversial, and in March 2009 the Mexican army demolished 40 roadside shrines near the U.S. border. Circa 2005, the Santa Muerte religion was brought to the United States by Mexican and Central American migrants, and by 2012 had tens of thousands of followers throughout the country, primarily in cities with high Latino populations. , the religion of Santa Muerte is said to be one of the fastest growing new religious movements in the world, with an estimated 10 to 12 million followers.\n\nOur Lady of Holy Death is a personification of death. Unlike other saints who originated in Mexican folk religion, Santa Muerte is not, herself, seen as a dead human being. She is associated with healing, protection, financial wellbeing, and assurance of a path to the afterlife.\n\nAlthough there are other death saints in Latin America, such as San La Muerte, Santa Muerte is the only female saint of death in either of the Americas. Iconographically, Santa Muerte is a skeleton dressed in female clothes or a shroud, and carrying both a scythe and a globe. Santa Muerte is marked out as female not by her figure but by her attire and hair. The latter was introduced by a believer named Enriqueta Romero.\n\nThe two most common objects that Santa Muerte holds in her hands are a globe and a scythe. The scythe can symbolize the cutting of negative energies or influences. As a harvesting tool, a scythe may also symbolize hope and prosperity. Her scythe reflects her origins as the Grim Reaper (\"la Parca\" of medieval Spain), and can represent the moment of death, when it is said to cut a silver thread. The scythe has a long handle, indicating that it can reach anywhere. The globe represents Death's vast power and dominion over the earth, and may be seen as a kind of a tomb to which we all return.\n\nOther objects associated with Santa Muerte include scales, an hourglass, an owl, and an oil lamp. The scales allude to equity, justice, and impartiality, as well as divine will. An hourglass indicates the time of life on earth and also the belief that death is not the end, as the hourglass can be inverted to start over. The hourglass denotes Santa Muerte's relationship with time as well as with the worlds above and below. It also symbolizes patience. An owl symbolizes her ability to navigate the darkness and her wisdom. The owl is also said to act as a messenger. A lamp symbolizes intelligence and spirit, to light the way through the darkness of ignorance and doubt. Some followers of Santa Muerte believe that she is jealous and that her image should not be placed next to those of other saints or deities, or there will be consequences.\n\nRites dedicated to Our Lady of Holy Death include processions and prayers with the aim of gaining a favor. Some believers of Santa Muerte remain members of the Catholic Church, while millions are cutting ties with the Catholic Church and founding independent Santa Muerte churches and temples. Altars of Santa Muerte temples generally contain one or multiple images of the lady, generally surrounded by any or all of the following: cigarettes, flowers, fruit, incense, water, alcoholic beverages, coins, candies and candles.\n\nAccording to popular belief, Santa Muerte is very powerful and is reputed to grant many favors. Her images are treated as holy and can give favors in return for the faith of the believer, with miracles playing a vital role. As Señora de la Noche (\"Lady of Night\"), she is often invoked by those exposed to the dangers of working at night, such as taxi drivers, bar owners, police, soldiers, and prostitutes. As such, devotees believe she can protect against assaults, accidents, gun violence, and all types of violent death.\nThe image is dressed differently depending on what is being requested. Usually, the vestments of the image are differently colored robes, but it is also common for the image to be dressed as a bride (for those seeking a husband) or in European medieval nun's garments similar to female Catholic saints. The colors of Our Lady of Holy Death's votive candles and vestments are associated with the type of petitions made.\n\nWhite is the most common color and can symbolize gratitude, purity, or the cleansing of negative influences. Red is for love and passion. It can also signify emotional stability. The color gold signifies economic power, success, money, and prosperity. Green symbolizes justice, legal matters, or unity with loved ones. Amber or dark yellow indicates health. Images with this color can be seen in rehabilitation centers, especially those for drug addiction and alcoholism. Black represents total protection against black magic or sorcery, or conversely negative magic or for force directed against rivals and enemies. Blue candles and images of the saint indicate wisdom, which is favored by students and those in education. It can also be used to petition for health. Brown is used to invoke spirits from beyond while purple, like yellow, usually symbolizes health.\n\nDevotees may present her with a polychrome seven-color candle, which Chesnut believed was probably adopted from the seven powers candle of Santería, a syncretic faith brought to Mexico by Cuban migrants. Here the seven colors are gold, silver, copper, blue, purple, red, and green. In addition to the candles and vestments, each devotee adorns their own image in their own way, using U.S. dollars, gold coins, jewelry, and other items.\n\nSanta Muerte also has a \"saint's day\", which varies from shrine to shrine. The most prominent is November 1, when the believer Enriqueta Romero celebrates her at her historic Tepito shrine where the famous effigy is dressed as a bride. Others celebrate her day on August 15.\n\nAccording to Chesnut, the religion of Our Lady of Holy Death is \"generally informal and unorganized\".\nSince worship of this image has been, and to a large extent still is, clandestine, most rituals are performed in altars constructed at the homes of devotees. Recently shrines to this image have been mushrooming in public. The one on Dr. Vertiz Street in Colonia Doctores is unique in Mexico City because it features an image of Jesús Malverde along with Santa Muerte. Another public shrine is in a small park on Matamoros Street very close to Paseo de la Reforma.\n\nShrines can also be found in the back of all kinds of stores and gas stations. As veneration of Santa Muerte becomes more accepted, stores specializing in religious articles, such as botánicas, are carrying more and more paraphernalia related to the religion. Historian R. Andrew Chesnut has discovered that many botanicas in both Mexico and the U.S. are kept in business by sales of Santa Muerte paraphernalia, with numerous shops earning up to half of their profits on Santa Muerte items. This is true even of stores in very well known locations such as Pasaje Catedral behind the Mexico City Cathedral, which is mostly dedicated to store selling Catholic liturgical items. Her image is a staple in esoterica shops.\n\nThere are those who now call themselves Santa Muerte priests or priestesses, such as Jackeline Rodríguez in Monterrey. She maintains a shop in Mercado Juárez in Monterrey, where tarot readers, curanderos, herbal healers and sorcerers can also be found.\n\nThe establishment of the first public shrine to the image began to change how Santa Muerte was venerated. The veneration has grown rapidly since then, and others have put their images on public display, as well.\n\nIn 2001, Enriqueta Romero decided to take a life-sized statue of Santa Muerte in her home in Mexico City and build a shrine for it, visible from the street. The shrine does not hold Catholic masses or occult rites, but people come here to pray and to leave offerings to the image. The effigy is dressed in garbs of different colors depending on the season, with the Romero family changing the dress every first Monday of the month. This statue of the saint features large quantities of jewelry on her neck and arms, which are pinned to her clothing. It is surrounded by offerings left to it, including: flowers, fruits (especially apples), candles, toys, money, notes of thanks for prayers granted, cigarettes, and alcoholic beverages that surround it.\n\nEnriqueta Romero considers herself the chaplain of the shrine, a role she says she inherited from her aunt, who began the practice in the family in 1962. The shrine is located on 12 Alfarería Street in Tepito, Colonia Morelos. For many, this Santa Muerte is the patron saint of Tepito. The house also contains a shop that sells amulets, bracelets, medallions, books, images, and other items; the most popular item sold there is votive candles.\n\nOn the first day of every month Enriqueta Romero or one of her sons lead prayers and the saying of the Santa Muerte rosary, which lasts for about an hour and is based on the Catholic rosary. On the first of November the anniversary of the altar to Santa Muerte constructed by Enriqueta Romero is celebrated. This Santa Muerte is dressed as a bride and wears hundreds of pieces of gold jewelry given by the faithful to show gratitude for favors received, or to ask for one.\n\nThe celebration officially begins at the stroke of midnight of November 1. About 5,000 faithful turn out to pray the rosary. For purification, the smoke of marijuana is used rather than incense, which is traditionally used for purification by Catholics. Food such as cake, chicken with mole, hot chocolate, coffee, and atole are served during the celebrations, which features performances by mariachis and marimba bands.\n\nThe religion of Santa Muerte is present throughout the strata of Mexican society, although the majority of devotees are from the urban working class. Most are young people, aged in their teens, twenties, or thirties, and are also mostly female.\nA large following developed among Mexicans who are disillusioned with the dominant, institutional Catholic Church and, in particular, with the inability of established Catholic saints to deliver them from poverty.\n\nThe phenomenon is based among people with scarce resources, excluded from the formal market economy, as well as the judicial and educational systems, primarily in the inner cities and the very rural areas. Devotion to Santa Muerte is what anthropologists call a \"cult of crisis\". Devotion to the image peaks during economic and social hardships, which tend to affect the working classes more. Santa Muerte tends to attract those in extremely difficult or hopeless situations but also appeals to smaller sectors of middle class professionals and even the affluent. Some of her most devoted followers are those who commit petty economic crimes, often committed out of desperation, such as prostitutes, and petty thieves.\n\nThe worship of Santa Muerte also attracts those who are not inclined to seek the traditional Catholic Church for spiritual solace, as it is part of the \"legitimate\" sector of society. Many followers of Santa Muerte live on the margins of the law or outside it entirely. Many street vendors, taxi drivers, vendors of counterfeit merchandise, street people, prostitutes, pickpockets, petty drug traffickers and gang members who are part of the religion are not practicing Catholics or Protestants, but neither are they atheists.\n\nIn essence they have created their own new religion that reflects their realities, identity, and practices, especially since it speaks to the violence and struggles for life that many of these people face. Conversely both police and military in Mexico can be counted among the faithful who ask for blessings on their weapons and ammunition.\n\nWhile worship is largely based in poor neighborhoods, Santa Muerte is also venerated in affluent areas such as Mexico City's Condesa and Coyoacán districts. However, negative media coverage of the worship and condemnation by the Catholic Church in Mexico and certain Protestant denominations have influenced public perception of the religion of Santa Muerte. With the exception of some artists and politicians, some of whom perform rituals secretly, those in higher socioeconomic strata look upon the veneration with distaste as a form of superstition.\n\nSanta Muerte is also seen as a protector of homosexual, bisexual, and transgender communities in Mexico, since many are considered to be outcast from society. Many LGBT people ask her for protection from violence, hatred, disease, and to help them in their search for love.\n\nHer intercession is commonly invoked in same-sex marriage ceremonies performed in Mexico. The Iglesia Católica Tradicional México-Estados Unidos, also known as the Church of Santa Muerte, recognizes gay marriage and performs religious wedding ceremonies for homosexual couples.\n\nIn the Mexican and U.S. press, the Santa Muerte religion is often associated with violence, criminality, and the illegal drug trade. She is a popular deity in prisons, both among inmates and staff, and shrines dedicated to her can be found in many cells.\n\nAltars with images of Santa Muerte have been found in many drug houses in both Mexico and the United States. Among Santa Muerte's more famous devotees are kidnapper Daniel Arizmendi López, known as \"El Mochaorejas\", and Gilberto García Mena, one of the bosses of the Gulf Cartel. In March 2012, the Sonora State Investigative Police announced that they had arrested eight people for murder for allegedly having performed a human sacrifice of a woman and two ten-year-old boys to Santa Muerte (see: Silvia Meraz).\n\nIn December 2010, the self-proclaimed bishop David Romo was arrested on charges of banking funds of a kidnapping gang linked to a cartel. He continues to lead his sect from his prison, but it is unfeasible for Romo or anyone else to gain dominance over the Santa Muerte religion. Her faith is spreading rapidly and \"organically\" from town to town, so that is easy to become a preacher or messianic figure. Drug lords, like that of La Familia Cartel, take advantage of \"gangster foot soldiers'\" vulnerability and enforced religious obedience to establish a holy meaning to their cause that would keep their soldiers disciplined.\n\nSanta Muerte is a multifaceted saint, with various symbolic meanings and her devotees can call upon her a wide range of reasons. In herbal shops and markets one can find a plethora of Santa Muerte paraphernalia like the votive candles that have her image on the front and in a color representative of its purpose. On the back of the candles are prayers associated with the color's meaning and may sometimes come with additional prayer cards.\n\nThe candles are placed on altars and devotees turn to specific colored candles depending on their circumstance. Some keep the full range of colored candles while others focus on one aspect of Santa Muerte's spirit. Santa Muerte's image as satanic or evil has been derived from her association with drug trafficking and the dead bodies found at her altar, however, the specific colors for the candles indicate that Santa Muerte's devotees stem from many walks of life beyond crime, violence, and the drug trade. Santa Muerte is called upon for matters of the heart, health, money, wisdom, and justice. There is the brown candle of wisdom, the white candle of gratitude and consecration, the black candle for protection and vengeance, the red candle of love and passion, the gold candle for monetary affairs, the green candle for crime and justice, the purple candle for healing.\n\nThe black votive candle is lit for prayer in order to implore La Flaca's protection and vengeance. It is the lowest selling candle due to its association with \"black magic\" and witchcraft. It is not regularly seen at devotional sites, and is usually kept and lit in the privacy of one's home. To avert from calling upon official Catholic saints for illegal purpose, drug trafficker will light Santa Muerte's black candle to ensure protection of shipment of drugs across the border.\n\nBlack candles are presented to Santa Muerte's altars that drug traffickers used to ensure protection from violence of rival gangs as well as ensure harm to their enemies in gangs and law enforcement. As the drug war in Mexico escalates, Santa Muerte's veneration by drug bosses increases and her image is seen again and again in various drug houses. Ironically, the military and police officers that are employed to dismantle the White Lady's shrines make up a large portion of her devotees. Furthermore, even though her presence in the drug world is becoming routine, the sale of black candles pales in comparison to top selling white, red, and gold candles.\n\nOne of Santa Muerte's more popular uses is in matters of the heart. The red candle that symbolizes love is helpful in various situations having to do with love. Her initial main purpose was in that of love magic during the colonial era in Mexico, which may have been derived from the love magic being brought over from Europe. Her origins are still unclear but it is possible that the image of the European Grim Reaper combined with the indigenous celebrations of death are at the root of La Flaca's existence, in so that the use of love magic in Europe and that of pre-Columbian times that was also merging during colonization may have established the saint as manipulator of love.\n\nThe majority of anthropological writing on Santa Muerte discuss her significance as provider of love magic and miracles. The candle can be lit for Santa Muerte to attract a certain lover and ensure their love. In contrast though, the red candle can be prayed to for help in ending a bad relationship in order to start another one. These love miracles require specific rituals to increase their love doctors power. The rituals require several ingredients including red roses and rose water for passion, binding stick to unite the lovers, cinnamon for prosperity, and several others depending on the specific ritual.\n\nThe Vatican has condemned the \"cult\" of Santa Muerte in Mexico as blasphemous and satanic, calling it a \"degeneration of religion\". Latin American Protestant churches have condemned it too, as black magic and trickery. Mexico's Catholic Church has accused Santa Muerte devotees—many of whom were baptized in the Catholic religion despite the difference of belief and the fact that Santa Muerte churches and temples have instituted a separate baptism practice—of having turned to devil-worship.\n\nCatholics say that Santa Muerte is an idol, the worship of which has been rejected by Yahweh in the Old Testament. Veneration of this or any other idol can be a form of inadvertent devil-worship, because regardless of the intent of the worshipers, the devil can trick people into doing such things. Priests regularly chastise parishioners, telling them that death is not a person but rather a phase of life. However, the Church stops short of labeling such followers as heretics, instead accusing them of heterodoxy.\n\nOther reasons the Mexican Catholic Church has officially condemned the worship of Santa Muerte is that most of her rites are modeled after Catholic liturgy, and some Santa Muerte devotees eventually split from the Catholic Church and began vying for control of church buildings.\n\nThe Santa Muerte religion was established in the United States circa 2005, brought to the country by Mexican and Central American migrants. Chesnut suggests that there were tens of thousands of devotees in the U.S. by 2012. This religion is primarily visible in cities with high populations, such as New York City, Chicago, Houston, San Antonio, Tucson, and Los Angeles, although it has also been located in cities with small Latino communities like Richmond, Virginia. There are fifteen religious groups dedicated to her in Los Angeles alone, which include the Temple of Santa Muerte.\n\nIn some places, such as Northern California and New Orleans, her popularity has spread beyond the Latino community. For instance, the Santisima Muerte Chapel of Perpetual Pilgrimage is maintained by a woman of Danish descent, while the New Orleans Chapel of the Santisima Muerte was founded in 2012 by a European-American devotee.\n\nAs in Mexico, some elements of the Catholic Church in the United States are trying to combat Santa Muerte worship, in Chicago particularly. Compared to the Catholic Church in Mexico, the official reaction in the U.S. is mostly either nonexistent or muted. The U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops has not issued an official position on this relatively new phenomenon in the country. Opposition to the veneration of Santa Muerte took an unprecedented violent turn in late January, 2013, when vandal(s) smashed a controversial statue of the folk saint, which had appeared in the San Benito, Texas, municipal cemetery at the beginning of the month.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16998086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16998086", "title": "Seat filler", "text": "Seat filler\n\nA seat filler is a person who fills in an empty seat during an event. There are two types of seat fillers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14554121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14554121", "title": "Social inequity aversion", "text": "Social inequity aversion\n\nInequity is injustice or unfairness or an instance of either of the two. Aversion is \"a feeling of repugnance toward something with a desire to avoid or turn from it; a settled dislike; a tendency to extinguish a behavior or to avoid a thing or situation and especially a usually pleasurable one because it is or has been associated with a noxious stimulus\". The given definition of inequity aversion is \"the preference for fairness and resistance to inequitable outcomes\".\n\nTo better understand and breakdown the concept of social inequity aversion would be to use the study done by Sarah Brosnan (as well as with Frans B. M. de Waal), who specializes in social behavior and social cognition. In their experiment, \"Monkeys Reject Unequal Pay\" five female capuchin monkeys were used and given an unequal distribution of rewards by the human experimenter. The female monkeys alternated in pairs under four different conditions with the experimenter. Of the female monkeys, two received the same reward, one female received a superior reward, one female received a superior reward without exchange (for example without work), and a single female observed a superior reward in the absence of a partner. The females were much less likely to complete a trade with the human experimenter when their corresponding partner received a food item of higher value item (a grape; the lower item was a cucumber), and when that partner received the higher food item with no exchange of work of any kind, the likelihood of not completing a trade intensified. All of these refusals of exchange included both passive and active rejections ranging from refusing to take the awards to throwing the reward, respectively. These negative responses of situation made with the monkeys support the early evolutionary origin of inequity aversion and thus helps (in combination with the definitions of inequity and aversion) give an overall idea of what social inequity aversion is: the tendency to reject or avoid situations in which there is social inequality, unfairness, or injustice.\n\nIt is important to note that the experiment was done with capuchin monkeys and not humans, and because humans are not the only cooperative animals (monkeys being one of many examples), we cannot assume that inequity aversion is an exclusive human trait or nature. There have been other experiments done with humans to test the validity of the inequity aversion theory proposed by Brosnan and de Waal. An experiment performed by Urs Fischbacher, Christina M. Fong, and Ernst Fehr called \"Fairness, Errors, and the Power of Competition\" consisted of a multi-lateral ultimatum game where one contestant was put up against multiple ones. In this experiment when the responders accepts the offer from the person giving the reward (say the 'provider'), the person giving the reward (the provider) gets his full pay. The key to this experiment is that the ability of one responder to affect the pay of the provider is lessened by all of the other responders' willingness to accept the reward. As a result, the concept of inequity aversion is followed, which says that the responders' willingness to reject the reward is lessened as well as the providers' offers. (This is because in order to evade inequality or injustice due to unequal pay, all of the participants reduce their amounts to reduce the chance of unfairness). What's most important to realize in this experiment is that the outcome does not seem to agree with those of Brosnan and de Waal's capuchin experiment; humans will not reject the offer unless it affects others reward and/or pay. So for humans, the original Fehr-Schmidt inequity aversion model, which was cited by Brosnan and de Waal in their capuchin experiment saying that the capuchin monkeys should always eat the lower value food, seems to hold validity. By not rejecting the reward offered, the humans decreased the amount of inequality. This was the opposite for the capuchins as they rejected the lower value food (cucumbers) when they couldn't get the higher value food (grapes) thus increasing the inequality, especially when the capuchins who received the grapes stole the discarded cucumbers, leaving the other monkeys with nothing. That increased the amount of inequality among the capuchins—The humans would only reject the reward if it reduced the reward of the individual who received the most.\n\nAccording to Sarah Brosnan, \"human beings have a similar approach, we do not live in a world of absolute values but one in which we are constantly comparing ourselves with those about us and, like a capuchin, we can tell when we are being short changed\". This can directly be connected to social inequality in that we as humans know what social inequality is and can identify it as an injustice; it is how we know that something such as unequal pay based on socioeconomic status is social inequality. However, according to the concept of social inequity aversion, we will not reject what is offered to us unless we realize that by rejecting what we are offered we will reduce another person's earnings or the earnings of the person who is giving to us, thus making our earnings closer to theirs, thus lessening the inequality.\n\nOne key example that links these two concepts could be that of the Neoclassical labor-market theory. Based on several important facts, this theory is based on the supposition that \"(1) a relatively free and open market exists in which individuals compete for position. (2) Position in that markets depends heavily on the individual's efforts, abilities, experience, training, or 'human capital.' (3) There are automatic mechanisms that operate in the marketplace to ensure that imbalances between one's input (human capital) and one's rewards (wages) are corrected in a way to restore balance\" (Hurst 231). This concept is interesting in that the third fact that is assumed to be true in a labor-market theory would apply greatly to the concept of social inequity aversion. This is because it would seem that in order to get the reward that is expected we as people will take what is given to us for our skill. But when it becomes possible that our fellow citizen can get more than us, or that the company that is providing us with the reward (payments) gets more money from our labor/skill, then we as people in this labor market theory will reject the payments, and try to obtain a better one. We do this by trying to attain better resources for ourselves, such as \"education, training, skills, and intelligence\" (Hurst 231). So take for example an African American woman, she will take the payment that all African American women are receiving. But once another African American woman begins to get better payment: via her better resources, other African American women will reject their current position as well as resources and seek more to in order to, maybe not directly lessen the payment that other African American woman, but to get more for themselves. This greatly illustrates the social inequity aversion concept when it comes to humans and how it crosses with the neoclassical labor market theory. However, because it is a continuous process in which different opportunities open up doors for individuals based on their life changes and access to better resources, an imbalance is made and a gap develops, thus separating individuals and creating ongoing social inequality (Hurst 231).\n\n"}
{"id": "21792999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21792999", "title": "Surame", "text": "Surame\n\nThe ancient city of Surame is a Nigerian national monument located in the Sokoto State of northwestern Nigeria. It was created in the 16th Century by Muhammadu Kanta Sarkin Kebbi, who controlled an empire in the region. The town was abandoned in about 1700 when the capital moved to Birnin Kebbi.\n\nCovering an area of 9 km, the site includes the foundation remains of human settlements, walls, wells and potsherds. There exist defensive walls created from stone and mortar immediately around the settlements, as well as ditches dug around the greater area and filled in with thorny bushes as a defensive means.\n\nThe ancient Kingdom of Surame was in power from the 15th to the 16th centuries.\n\nSurame was declared an ancient national monument on 15 August 1964.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on October 8, 2007 in the Mixed (Cultural + Natural) category.\n"}
{"id": "39985182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39985182", "title": "The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences", "text": "The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences\n\nThe Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences was convened by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences at the request of Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee) and Mark Warner (R-Virginia) and Representatives Tom Petri (R-Wisconsin) and David Price (D-North Carolina).\n\nOn June 19, 2013, the Commission issued its initial report \"The Heart of the Matter,\" along with a companion film created specially with the aid of Ken Burns and George Lucas.\n\nThe Commission was chaired by Richard H. Brodhead, President of Duke University, and John W. Rowe, retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Exelon Corporation. Other Commission members included university, college, and community college presidents, museum directors, public servants, corporate executives, humanists, social scientists, and artists.\n\nThe Commission’s report has received wide press coverage and statements of support from at least fifteen national and state organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "57937855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57937855", "title": "The Death of Sophonisba (Preti)", "text": "The Death of Sophonisba (Preti)\n\nThe Death of Sophonisba or Sophonisba Taking Poison is a 1670s painting by Mattia Preti of the suicide of Sophonisba. It is now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon.\n\n"}
{"id": "697747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=697747", "title": "The Rape of Lucrece", "text": "The Rape of Lucrece\n\nThe Rape of Lucrece (1594) is a narrative poem by William Shakespeare about the legendary Lucretia. In his previous narrative poem, \"Venus and Adonis\" (1593), Shakespeare had included a dedicatory letter to his patron, the Earl of Southampton, in which he promised to compose a \"graver labour\". Accordingly, \"The Rape of Lucrece\" has a serious tone throughout.\n\nThe poem begins with a prose dedication addressed directly to the Earl of Southampton, which begins, \"The love I dedicate to your Lordship is without end.\" It refers to the poem as a pamphlet, which describes the form of its original publication of 1594.\n\nThe dedication is followed by \"The Argument\", a prose paragraph that summarizes the events preceding the start of the poem, which begins \"in media res\".\n\nThe poem contains 1,855 lines, divided into 265 stanzas of seven lines each. The meter of each line is iambic pentameter. The rhyme scheme for each stanza is ABABBCC, a format known as \"rhyme royal\", which has been used by Geoffrey Chaucer, John Milton and John Masefield.\n\nThe poem is set just before the establishment of the Roman Republic in 509 BC. The poem's locations are Rome, Ardea, twenty-four miles south of Rome, and Collatium, ten miles east of Rome.\n\n\nOne evening, at the town of Ardea, where a battle is being fought, two leading Roman soldiers, Tarquin and Collatine, are talking. Collatine describes his wife, Lucrece, in glowing terms—she is beautiful and chaste. The following morning, Tarquin travels to Collatine's home. Lucrece welcomes him. Tarquin entertains her with stories of her husband's deeds on the battlefield.\n\nTarquin spends the night, and is torn by his desire for Lucrece. His desire overcomes him, and he goes to Lucrece's chamber, where she is asleep. He reaches out and touches her breast, which wakes her up. She is afraid. He tells her that she must give in to him, or else he will kill her. He also threatens to cause her dishonor by murdering a slave and placing the two bodies in each other's arms, and then he would claim that he killed her because he discovered them in this embrace. If she would give in to him, Tarquin promises to keep it all secret. Lucrece pleads with him to no avail. He rapes her.\n\nFull of shame and guilt, Tarquin sneaks away. Lucrece is devastated, furious and suicidal. She writes a letter to her husband, asking him to come home. When Collatine gets home, Lucrece tells him the whole story, but doesn't say who did it. Collatine demands to know. Before she tells him, Lucrece gets the soldiers, who are also there, to promise to avenge this crime. She then tells her husband who did it, and she immediately pulls out a knife, stabs herself and dies. Collatine's grief is great—he wants to kill himself, as well. His friend, Brutus, suggests that revenge is a better choice. The soldiers carry Lucrece's body through the streets of Rome. The citizens, angered, banish Tarquin and his family.\n\n\"The Rape of Lucrece\" was entered into the Stationers' Register on 9 May 1594, and published later that year, in a quarto printed by Richard Field for the bookseller John Harrison (\"the Elder\"); Harrison sold the book from his shop at the sign of the White Greyhound in St. Paul's Churchyard. The title given on the title page was simply \"Lucrece\", though the running title throughout the volume, as well as the heading at the beginning of the text is \"The Rape of Lucrece\". Harrison's copyright was transferred to Roger Jackson in 1614; Jackson issued a sixth edition (O5) in 1616. Other octavo editions followed in 1624, 1632 and 1655. The poem went through eight editions before 1641.\n\n\"The Rape of Lucrece\" draws on the story described in both Ovid's \"Fasti\" and Livy's history of Rome. Both authors were writing a few centuries after the events occurred, and their histories are not accepted as strictly accurate, partly because Roman records were destroyed by the Gauls in 390 B.C., and the histories prior to that have been mixed with legends.\n\nThe Roman king was Lucius Tarquinus, or Tarquin. Because of his arrogance and his tyranny, he is also known as \"Tarquinius Superbus\" (Tarquin the Proud). His son, Sextus Tarquinius, heir to the throne, is the rapist of the story. At the beginning of the poem the Roman army is waging war on a tribe known as the Volscians, who had claimed territory south of Rome. The Romans are laying siege to Ardea, a Volscian city 20 miles south of Rome.\n\nIn 509 BC, Sextus Tarquinius, son of the king of Rome, raped Lucretia (Lucrece), wife of Collatinus, one of the king's aristocratic retainers. As a result, Lucrece committed suicide. Her body was paraded in the Roman Forum by the king's nephew. This incited a full-scale revolt against the Tarquins led by Lucius Junius Brutus, the banishment of the royal family, and the founding of the Roman Republic.\n\nShakespeare retains the essence of the classic story, incorporating Livy's account that Tarquin's lust for Lucrece sprang from her husband's own praise of her. Shakespeare later used the same idea in the late romance \"Cymbeline\" (circa 1609–1610). In this play, Iachimo bets Posthumus (Imogen's husband) that he can make Imogen commit adultery with him. He does not succeed. However, Iachimo convinces Posthumus otherwise using information about Imogen's bedchamber and body. Iachimo hid in a trunk which was delivered to Imogen's chamber under the pretence of safekeeping some jewels, a gift for her father, King Cymbeline. The scene in which he emerges from the trunk (2.2) mimics the scene in \"The Rape of Lucrece.\" Indeed, Iachimo compares himself to Tarquin in the scene: \"Our Tarquin thus, / Did softly press the rushes ere he waken'd / The chastity he wounded\" (2.2.12–14).\n\n\"The Rape of Lucrece\" is also closely related to the early Roman tragedy \"Titus Andronicus\" (circa 1590–94). In this revenge play, when the raped and mutilated Lavinia reveals the identity of her rapists, her uncle Marcus invokes the story of Lucrece to urge an oath to revenge the crime: \"And swear with me—as, with the woeful fere / And father of that chaste dishonoured dame, / Lord Junius Brutus swore for Lucrece' rape— / That we will prosecute by good advice / Mortal revenge upon these traitorous Goths, / And see their blood, or die with this reproach\" (4.1.89–94).\n\nThe rapist Tarquin is also mentioned in Macbeth's soliloquy from Act 2 Scene 1 of \"Macbeth\": \"wither'd Murther ... With Tarquin's ravishing strides, towards his design / Moves like a ghost\" (2.1.52–56). Tarquin's actions and cunning are compared with Macbeth's indecision—both rape and regicide are unforgivable crimes.\n\nIn \"The Taming of the Shrew\" Act 2, Scene 1, Petruchio promises Baptista, the father of Katherine (the Shrew), that once he marries Katherine \"for patience she will prove second Grisel, / And Roman Lucrece for her chastity\" (2.1.292–3). \n\nIn \"Twelfth Night\", Maria's letter in Olivia's handwriting designed to gull Malvolio reads: \"I may command where I adore; but silence, like a Lucrece knife, With bloodless stroke my heart doth gore: M, O, A, I, doth sway my life.\" As Malvolio interprets the \"fustian riddle\", Olivia's inability or unwillingness to speak of her love for him is killing her, like the literal knife of Lucretia's suicide. Malvolio also notes that Olivia uses an image of Lucrece as a personal seal, and it is this that convinces him the letter is from Olivia\n\n\"The Rape of Lucrece\", one of Shakespeare's earliest works, was published one year after \"Venus and Adonis\". It is seen as a tragic narrative poem, that is extremely rich in poetic images, fancies, and metaphors. It tells a moralistic tale of a bad deed, what caused it, how it occurred, and the tragic result.\n\nIn a post-structuralist analysis of the poem, Joel Fineman argues that \"The Rape of Lucrece\", like Shakespeare's sonnets, deconstructs the traditional poetics of praise. Fineman observes that the tragic events of the poem are set in motion precisely by Collatine's hyperbolic praise of Lucrece; it is his \"boast of Lucrece' sov'reignty\" (29) that kindles Tarquin's profane desire. It is not the fact of Lucrece's chastity, but rather the fact that her husband praises her with the \"name of 'chaste'\" that inspires Tarquin's crime: \"Haply, that name of 'chaste' unhapp'ly set / This bateless edge on his keen appetite\" (8–9). Collatine's praise paradoxically creates the circumstances that will ruin both the woman that he praises and the integrity of the rhetoric of praise itself. Furthermore, the poem itself draws attention to its own complicity in Collatine's fatal rhetoric of praise: \"the poem itself performs or activates this same praising word of which it speaks.\" by citing, in the first line of the second stanza, its own use of \"chaste\" in the last line of the first stanza: \"Collatine's fair love, Lucrece the chaste\" (7). To Fineman, the poem's initial self-citation is just one example of how the \"poem's own rhetoricity is... performatively implicated in the rape it reports\". In other words, the opening of the poem highlights an intrinsic link between the language of poetic praise and sexual violence. In these same opening stanzas, \"The Rape of Lucrece\" also acknowledges how its own poetic rhetoric is part of this larger literary tradition which yokes praise and violence.\n\nJane Newman's feminist analysis of the poem focuses on its relationship to the myth of Philomel and Procne from Book VI of the \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid. In Newman's reading, the tradition of violent female revenge for rape represented by the myth of Philomel is repressed in Shakespeare's \"The Rape of Lucrece\". Shakespeare's poem faintly alludes to Ovid's myth, but does not present Procne and Philomel's method of revenge as an authentic option for Lucrece. Although Lucrece maintains the ability to speak after the rape (in contrast to the mutilated Philomela who loses all speech), Newman argues that the poem actually limits Lucrece's ability to act precisely by celebrating her self-sacrifice: \"The apparent contrast of a silent Philomela, robbed of the potential for such an impact on the political moment to which she belongs, effectively casts Lucretia's suicide as the only form of political intervention available to women.\" Ironically, Lucrece's rhetorical eloquence blocks the possibility that she herself could seek out a more active, violent retribution on Tarquin, her rapist, and the monarchical regime that he represents. Instead, her revenge must be carried out by male agents acting in her name, particularly Brutus, the founder of the Roman Republic, who imitates Lucrece's self-sacrificing rhetoric as he leads the rebellion against Tarquin's father, the king of Rome.\n\n\n\n\n\"\n"}
{"id": "1273586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1273586", "title": "The Tales of Hoffmann (film)", "text": "The Tales of Hoffmann (film)\n\nThe Tales of Hoffmann is a 1951 British Technicolor film adaptation of Jacques Offenbach's opera \"The Tales of Hoffmann\", written, produced and directed by the team of Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger working under the umbrella of their production company, The Archers.\n\nThe opera film stars Robert Rounseville, Moira Shearer, Robert Helpmann and Léonide Massine, and features Pamela Brown, Ludmilla Tchérina and Ann Ayars. Only Rounseville and Ayars sang their own roles.\n\nIt uses a soundtrack recorded for the film conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham; principal singers apart from Rounseville and Ayars were Dorothy Bond, Margherita Grandi, Monica Sinclair and Bruce Dargavel; the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra plays. The film's production team includes cinematographer Christopher Challis and production and costume designer Hein Heckroth, who was nominated for two 1952 Academy Awards for his work.\n\n\nThough the original French libretto is presented in English translation, the film is relatively faithful to the traditional adaptations of Offenbach's last opera, and incorporates his unfinished score with the thread of the plot. However, certain important changes were made in the process of adapting the story to film: \n\nIn the later years of their partnership, Powell became interested in what he termed \"a composed film\", a marriage of image to operatic music. The finale of \"Black Narcissus\" and the ballet sequence of \"The Red Shoes\" were earlier steps toward his goal.\n\n\"The Tales of Hoffmann\" is an achievement of this ideal, as the entire opera was pre-recorded to create the soundtrack, and the movie was edited to the rhythms of the music. The production is completely without dialogue and, with the exception of Robert Rounseville and Ann Ayars, none of the actors did their own singing. Some of the singers had established careers in Britain at the time. Grahame Clifford, for example, had been a leading comedian with the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company for several years, and Monica Sinclair was fast becoming an audience favourite at Covent Garden; she would later become one of the company's most popular artists of the next two decades. The acting (especially by Helpmann) is highly stylised and similar to that of the silent film era.\n\nEach tale is marked by its own individual primary colour, denoting its theme. \"The Tale of Olympia\", set in Paris, has yellow contours highlighting the farcical nature and tone of the first act. \"The Tale of Giulietta\" is a hellish depiction of Venice, where dark colours, especially red, are used. The final tale, set in Greece, uses different shades of blue, alluding to its sad nature. The set design is deliberately made to look artificial with the costumes similarly stylised. The opening scene of the \"Tale of Giulietta\" (where Giulietta performs the \"Barcarolle\", the most famous theme of the opera) is staged on a gondola which moves through deliberately artificial Venetian canals, although it does not seem to actually move on the water.\n\n\"The Tales of Hoffmann\" was in production from 1–16 July 1950 at Shepperton Studios in Shepperton, Surrey, in the UK\n\nFollowing its world premiere in New York City, Bosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" wrote:\n[D]espite its opulence, coupled with a brilliant rendering of the score by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra under Sir Thomas Beecham's bristling baton and some masterly singing of the libretto (in English) by a host of vocal cords, this film version of the opera is, \"in toto\", a vastly wearying show. And that is because it sates the senses without striking any real dramatic fire ... The inevitable question about this picture is how close does it come to matching the beauty and excitement of the same producers \"The Red Shoes\"? Although the two films are basically different, a comparison is fair to this extent: \"The Red Shoes\" had warmth and vitality, \"Tales of Hoffmann\" is splendid and cold.\n\nReportedly, Cecil B. DeMille sent a letter to Powell and Pressburger, saying, \"For the first time in my life, I was treated to Grand Opera where the beauty, power and scope of the music was equally matched by the visual presentation.\"\n\nFor the 2002 \"Sight & Sound\" poll, George A. Romero called it his \"favourite film of all time; the movie that made me want to make movies\". Three years earlier, Romero had introduced the film as part of the \"Dialogues: Talking with Pictures\" programme at the . Romero later taped an interview for the Criterion Collection edition of the film, discussing his love of the film and its influence on his career. Additionally, Martin Scorsese, an ardent fan of Powell and Pressburger, provides an audio commentary track on the Criterion edition.\n\nIn a book on the British cinema, André Bazin is quoted as saying:\nThe cinema thus creates here a new artistic monster: the best legs adorned by the best voice. Not only is opera liberated from its material constraints but also from its human limitations. Lastly, dance itself is renewed by the photography and the editing, which allows a kind of choreography of the second degree where the rhythm of the dance is served by that of the cinema.\n\nAt the 24th Academy Awards, \"The Tales of Hoffmann\" received two nominations, both for Hein Heckroth, for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Color and Best Costume Design, Color; the awards in both cases went to the crew of \"An American in Paris\".\n\nPowell and Pressburger were nominated for the Grand Prize of the 1951 Cannes Film Festival, and won the Exceptional Prize. They also won the Silver Bear award for \"Best Musical\" at the 1st Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nThe soundtrack was recorded at Shepperton Studios between May and September 1950, conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham. Decca obtained permission from London Films to release the soundtrack on LP. In response, Beecham sued: he had not approved the release, because the soundtrack did not truly represent his interpretation of the opera, due to the changes made for the film. On 20 March 1951 he failed to obtain a High Court injunction to prevent the release, but received assurances that it would be clearly labelled as taken from the soundtrack.\n\nIn March 2015, the 4K restoration of the film, produced by Martin Scorsese's The Film Foundation, the British Film Institute, and Studiocanal, was released in the U.S. by Rialto Pictures. The restored version runs 136 minutes, including a final credits sequence of all the performers and singers, not seen in any previous releases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12069006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12069006", "title": "Theologia mythologica", "text": "Theologia mythologica\n\nTheologia mythologica is a 1532 book by Georg Pictorius. It was one of the first treatises of Classical mythology in the German Renaissance. Pictorius interprets the Greek pantheon as allegory, e.g. Cybele as the Earth, her chariot wheels as symbolizing the rotation of the Earth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40321354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40321354", "title": "Thierry Baudet", "text": "Thierry Baudet\n\nThierry Henri Philippe Baudet (born 28 January 1983) is a Dutch politician, jurist, columnist and historian who founded and leads the political party Forum for Democracy (FvD, ).\n\nBorn in Heemstede to a family of partial French and Indonesian origin, Baudet is a eurosceptic and opposed to multiculturalism. Baudet is an advocate for a return to nation states; his party set up the Dutch Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement referendum, 2016 with the GeenStijl website and the Burgercomité EU association, in which Baudet voted no. In 2014 he gave a speech at the Flemish nationalist event IJzerwake. He also spoke at several Vlaams Belang conferences. Baudet maintains that his conservative political convictions have been largely influenced by two events in his first year as a history undergraduate in Amsterdam: the September 11 attacks and the assassination of Pim Fortuyn. In November 2016 Baudet co-signed a letter initiated by the German journalist Billy Six which requested Donald Trump to press for a new investigation regarding MH17.\n\nBaudet features regularly in both print and visual media in Europe. As a journalist he has had a permanent column in \"NRC Handelsblad\", and is published in \"Le Monde\", PressEurope and European Ideas. Recently he has been active as a commentator in Studio PowNed on the Dutch public television. As an academic teacher and researcher Baudet focuses on questions of law, history and political philosophy through a multidisciplinary approach. The opening words of his first parliamentary speech were Latin.\n\nIn the general election of 2017 his newly founded party won two seats in the House of Representatives, Baudet being elected alongside Theo Hiddema.\n\nIn February 2018 Baudet was confronted with the question whether there is a relation between IQ and race in a debate with Femke Halsema. Hiddema and the number two on Baudet's party list for the Dutch municipal elections, 2018 in Amsterdam, Yernaz Ramautarsing, stated they believed it to be true while Baudet refused to answer the question. Deputy Prime Minister Kajsa Ollongren stated that Forum for Democracy is a bigger threat than the PVV and that members have an unhealthy fascination for race differences; Baudet made a complaint for defamation at an Amsterdam police station. Hiddema supported him as his advocate. In a debate a few days later, he no longer refused to answer the question and mentioned he shares Ramautarsing's opinion on the subject.\n\nBaudet is a national conservative and eurosceptic, advocating for both Netherlands' exit from the European Union and its eventual dissolution. He is against further unskilled immigration into the Netherlands. In a speech he spoke about immigration causing a homeopathic dilution and in an interview he said he prefers a dominant white and cultural Europe as it is. He is opposed to Ukraine joining the European Union.\n\nBaudet has a strong opinion on arts, the topic of his book \"Oikofobie\", and considers non-Western art and Western post-1900 modernism in visual arts inferior to Western Realism, encourages education and programmation of tonal music opposed to atonal music and dislikes modern post-1950 architecture.\n\nBaudet frequently speaks about the perceived existence of a \"party cartel\", in which the main ruling parties of the country divide power among themselves and conspire towards the same goals, despite claiming to be competitors. Baudet is not religious, but he is sympathetic with Christian values. In an interview, he called himself an \"agnostic cultural Christian.\"\n\nSince Baudet entered the States General with his political party, he became a hot topic in the Dutch media with daily new analytic articles, background checks, gossip, and interviews. His broad international network is a prominent re-occurring chapter in the debate whether his political position is extreme right, racist, or fascistic. He had contact with Jared Taylor, Milo Yiannopoulos, Jean-Marie Le Pen and Filip Dewinter. He speaks about non-Western immigrants as the cause of an \"homeopathic dilution\" of Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2623187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2623187", "title": "Torricelli languages", "text": "Torricelli languages\n\nThe Torricelli languages are a family of about fifty languages of the northern Papua New Guinea coast, spoken by only about 80,000 people. They are named after the Torricelli Mountains. The most populous and best known Torricelli language is the Arapesh, with about 30,000 speakers.\n\nThe most promising external relationship for the Torricelli family is the Sepik languages. In reconstructions of both families, the pronouns have a plural suffix \"*-m\" and a dual suffix \"*-p\".\n\nThe Torricelli languages occupy three geographically separated areas, evidently separated by migrations of Sepik-language speakers several centuries ago.\n\nWilhelm Schmidt linked the Wapei and Monumbo branches, and the coastal western and eastern extremes of the family, in 1905. The family was more fully established by David Laycock in 1965. Most recently, Ross broke up Laycock and Z’graggen's (1975) Kombio branch, placing the Kombio language in the Palei branch and leaving Wom as on its own, with the other languages (Eitiep, Torricelli (Lou), Yambes, Aruek) unclassified due to lack of data. Usher tentatively separates Monumbo, Marienberg, and the Taiap (Gapun) isolate in a 'Sepik Coast' branch, separated from the rest of the family.\n\n\"Ethnologue\" also lists Bragat in the Palei branch.\n\nThe Torricelli languages are unusual among Papuan languages in having a basic clause order of SVO (subject–verb–object). (In contrast, most Papuan languages have SOV order.) It was previously believed that the Torricelli word order was a result of contact with Austronesian languages, but it is now thought more likely that SVO order was present in the Torricelli proto-language. \n\nThe pronouns Ross reconstructs for proto-Torricelli are\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59955", "title": "Trojan Horse", "text": "Trojan Horse\n\nThe Trojan Horse is a story from the Trojan War about the subterfuge that the Greeks used to enter the independent city of Troy and win the war. In the canonical version, after a fruitless 10-year siege, the Greeks constructed a huge wooden horse, and hid a select force of men inside including Odysseus. The Greeks pretended to sail away, and the Trojans pulled the horse into their city as a victory trophy. That night the Greek force crept out of the horse and opened the gates for the rest of the Greek army, which had sailed back under cover of night. The Greeks entered and destroyed the city of Troy, ending the war.\n\nMetaphorically a \"Trojan Horse\" has come to mean any trick or stratagem that causes a target to invite a foe into a securely protected bastion or place. A malicious computer program which tricks users into willingly running it is also called a \"Trojan horse\" or simply a \"Trojan\".\n\nThe main ancient source for the story is the \"Aeneid\" of Virgil, a Latin epic poem from the time of Augustus. The event is also referred to in Homer's \"Odyssey\". In the Greek tradition, the horse is called the \"wooden horse\" (δουράτεος ἵππος \"dourateos hippos\" in Homeric/Ionic Greek (\"Odyssey\" 8.512); δούρειος ἵππος, \"doureios hippos\" in Attic Greek).\n\nAccording to Quintus Smyrnaeus, Odysseus thought of building a great wooden horse (the horse being the emblem of Troy), hiding an elite force inside, and fooling the Trojans into wheeling the horse into the city as a trophy. Under the leadership of Epeius, the Greeks built the wooden horse in three days. Odysseus's plan called for one man to remain outside the horse; he would act as though the Greeks had abandoned him, leaving the horse as a gift for the Trojans. An inscription was engraved on the horse reading: \"For their return home, the Greeks dedicate this offering to Athena\". Then they burned their tents and left to Tenedos by night. Greek soldier Sinon was \"abandoned\", and was to signal to the Greeks by lighting a beacon. In Virgil's poem, Sinon, the only volunteer for the role, successfully convinces the Trojans that he has been left behind and that the Greeks are gone. Sinon tells the Trojans that the Horse is an offering to the goddess Athena, meant to atone for the previous desecration of her temple at Troy by the Greeks, and ensure a safe journey home for the Greek fleet. Sinon tells the Trojans that the Horse was built to be too large for them to take it into their city and gain the favor of Athena for themselves.\n\nWhile questioning Sinon, the Trojan priest Laocoön guesses the plot and warns the Trojans, in Virgil's famous line \"Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes\" (\"I fear Greeks, even those bearing gifts\"), Danai ( \"Danaos\") or Danaans (Homer's name for the Greeks) being the ones who had built the Trojan Horse. However, the god Poseidon sends two sea serpents to strangle him and his sons Antiphantes and Thymbraeus before any Trojan heeds his warning. According to Apollodorus the two serpents were sent by Apollo, whom Laocoon had insulted by sleeping with his wife in front of the \"divine image\". In the \"Odyssey\", Homer says that Helen of Troy also guesses the plot and tries to trick and uncover the Greek soldiers inside the horse by imitating the voices of their wives, and Anticlus attempts to answer, but Odysseus shuts his mouth with his hand. King Priam's daughter Cassandra, the soothsayer of Troy, insists that the horse will be the downfall of the city and its royal family. She too is ignored, hence their doom and loss of the war.\nThis incident is mentioned in the \"Odyssey\":\n\nThe most detailed and most familiar version is in Virgil's \"Aeneid\", Book II (trans. A. S. Kline).\n\nBook II includes Laocoön saying: \"Equo ne credite, Teucri. Quidquid id est, timeo Danaos et dona ferentes.\" (\"Do not trust the horse, Trojans! Whatever it is, I fear the Greeks, even bringing gifts.\")\n\nWell before Virgil, the story is also alluded to in Greek classical literature. In Euripides' play \"Trojan Women\", written in 415 BC, the god Poseidon proclaims: \"For, from his home beneath Parnassus, Phocian Epeus, aided by the craft of Pallas, framed a horse to bear within its womb an armed host, and sent it within the battlements, fraught with death; whence in days to come men shall tell of 'the wooden horse,' with its hidden load of warriors.\"\n\nThirty of the Achaeans' best warriors hid in the Trojan horse's belly and two spies in its mouth. Other sources give different numbers: The \"Bibliotheca\" 50; Tzetzes 23; and Quintus Smyrnaeus gives the names of 30, but says there were more. In late tradition the number was standardized at 40. Their names follow:\nThere has been speculation that the Trojan Horse may have been a battering ram or other sort of siege engine resembling, to some extent, a horse, and that the description of the use of this device was then transformed into a myth by later oral historians who were not present at the battle and were unaware of that meaning of the name. Assyrians at the time used siege machines with animal names, often covered with dampened horse hides to protect against flaming arrows; it is possible that the Trojan Horse was such. Pausanias, who lived in the 2nd century AD, wrote in his book \"Description of Greece\" \"That the work of Epeius was a contrivance to make a breach in the Trojan wall is known to everybody who does not attribute utter silliness to the Phrygians\" where, by Phrygians, he means the Trojans.\n\nSome authors have suggested that the gift might also have been a ship, with warriors hidden inside. It has been noted that the terms used to put men in the horse are those used by ancient Greek authors when describing the embarkation of men on a ship, and that there are analogies between the building of ships by Paris at the beginning of the Trojan saga and the building of the horse at the end; ships are called \"sea-horses\" once in the Odyssey. This view has recently gained support from naval archaeology: ancient text and images show that a Phoenician merchant ship type decorated with a horse head, called \"hippos\" (=horse) by Greeks, became very diffuse in the Levant area around the beginning of the first millennium BC, being used to trade precious metals, and sometimes to pay tribute after the end of a war; it is suggested therefore that the original story viewed the Greek soldiers hiding inside the hull of such a vessel, possibly disguised as a tribute, and that at some time this term was misunderstood in the oral transmission of the story, giving origin the Trojan horse myth.\n\nA more speculative theory, originally proposed by Fritz Schachermeyr, states that the Trojan Horse is a metaphor for a destructive earthquake that damaged the walls of Troy and allowed the Greeks in. In his theory, the horse represents Poseidon, who as well as being god of the sea was also god of horses and earthquakes. This theory is supported by the fact that archaeological digs have found that Troy VI was heavily damaged in an earthquake, but is hard to square with the mythological claim that Poseidon himself built the walls of Troy in the first place.\n\nPictorial representations of the Trojan Horse earlier than, or contemporary to, the first literary appearances of the episode can help clarify what was the meaning of the story as perceived by its contemporary audience. There are few ancient (before 480 BC) depictions of the Trojan Horse surviving. The earliest is on a Boeotian fibula dating from about 700 BC. Other two are on relief pithos vases from the adjoining Grecian islands Mykonos and Tinos, both generally dated between 675 and 650 BC, the one from Mykonos (see figure) being known as the Mykonos vase. (Historian Michael Wood, however, dates the Mykonos vase to the 8th century BC, before the written accounts attributed by tradition to Homer; and concludes from that evidence that the story of the Trojan Horse existed before those accounts were written.) Other archaic representations of the Trojan horse are found on a Corinthian aryballos dating back to 560 BC (see figure), on a vase fragment to 540 BC (see figure), and on an Etruscan carnelian scarab.\n\n"}
{"id": "921858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921858", "title": "World cinema", "text": "World cinema\n\nWorld cinema is not the sum-total of all films made around the world. Its use is analogous to the use of the term \"world literature\". Goethe used the concept of \"Weltliteratur\" (world literature) in several of his essays in the early decades of the nineteenth century to describe the international circulation and reception of literary works in Europe, including works of non-Western origin. An interest in \"world cinema\" suggests an awareness of high-quality films made outside the Hollywood studio system which dominates international viewership. However, some people use the term to refer to the film and film industries of non-English-speaking countries in English-speaking countries. Equating the dominant form of cinema with the dominant language (English) can be inherently problematic.There are many countries such as Canada, England, South Africa and even Asian countries like India, where films are made in English but they are part of \"world cinema\" due to their marginal status in terms of access or viewership. It can be argued that an understanding of \"world cinema\" centering around Hollywood cinema suggests an Eurocentric view. \"World cinema\" is often used interchangeably with the term foreign film. \"Foreign\" is also a relative term, suggesting a Western viewpoint. One person's national cinema can be another person's foreign film. In fact, American independent cinema may be considered part of \"world cinema\" as it does not have adequate access. \n\nTechnically, \"foreign film\" does not mean the same as \"foreign language film\", but the inference is that a foreign film is not only foreign in terms of the country of production, but also in terms of the language used. As such, the use of the term \"foreign film\" for films produced in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Canada or other English-speaking countries would be uncommon within other English-speaking countries. \n\nWorld cinema has an unofficial implication of films with \"artistic value\" as opposed to \"Hollywood commercialism.\" Foreign language films are often grouped with \"art house films\" and other independent films in DVD stores, cinema listings etc.\nUnless dubbed into one's native language, foreign language films played in English-speaking regions usually have English subtitles. Few films of this kind receive more than a limited release and many are never played in major cinemas. As such the marketing, popularity and gross takings for these films are usually markedly less than for typical Hollywood blockbusters. The combination of subtitles and minimal exposure adds to the notion that \"World Cinema\" has an inferred artistic prestige or intelligence, which may discourage less sophisticated viewers. Additionally, differences in cultural style and tone between foreign and domestic films affects attendance at cinemas and DVD sales.\n\nForeign language films can be commercial, low brow or B-movies. Furthermore, foreign language films can cross cultural boundaries, particularly when the visual spectacle and style is sufficient to overcome people's misgivings. Films of this type became more common in the early 2000s, as \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\", \"Amélie\", \"Brotherhood of the Wolf\", \"Y Tu Mama Tambien\" and \"Talk to Her\" enjoyed great successes in United States cinemas and home video sales. The first foreign and foreign language film to top the North American box office was \"Hero\" in August 2004. \"The rule for foreign-language films is that if you've done $5 million or better (in United States cinemas), you've had a very nice success; if you do $10 (million) or better (in United States cinemas), you're in blockbuster category,\" Warner Independent Pictures ex-president Mark Gill said.\n\nOn the other hand, English-dubbed foreign films rarely did well in United States box office (except Anime films). The 1982 United States theatrical release of Wolfgang Peterson’s \"Das Boot\" was the last major release to go out in both original and English-dubbed versions, and the film's original version actually grossed much higher than the English-dubbed version. Later on, English-dubbed versions of international hits like \"Un indien dans la ville\", \"Godzilla 2000\", \"Anatomy\", \"Pinocchio\" and \"High Tension\" flopped at United States box office. When Miramax planned to release the English-dubbed versions of \"Shaolin Soccer\" and \"Hero\" in the United States cinemas, their English-dubbed versions scored badly in test screenings in the United States, so Miramax finally released the films in United States cinemas with their original language.\n\nForeign language films that are particularly successful in international markets may be taken on by the large film distribution companies for DVD releases. At the other end of the scale, many foreign language films are never given a DVD release outside of their home markets. The majority of those DVDs that are given an international release, come out on specialist labels. These labels include:\n\n\n"}
