{"id": "39849257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39849257", "title": "Behavioral analytics", "text": "Behavioral analytics\n\nBehavioral analytics is a recent advancement in business analytics that reveals new insights into the behavior of consumers on eCommerce platforms, online games, web and mobile applications, and IoT. The rapid increase in the volume of raw event data generated by the digital world enables methods that go beyond typical analysis by demographics and other traditional metrics that tell us what kind of people took what actions in the past. Behavioral analysis focuses on understanding how consumers act and why, enabling accurate predictions about how they are likely to act in the future. It enables marketers to make the right offers to the right consumer segments at the right time.\n\nBehavioral analytics utilizes the massive volumes of raw user event data captured during sessions in which consumers use application, game, or website, including traffic data like navigation path, clicks, social media interactions, purchasing decisions and marketing responsiveness. Also, the event-data can include advertising metrics like click-to-conversion time, as well as comparisons between other metrics like the monetary value of an order and the amount of time spent on the site. These data points are then compiled and analyzed, whether by looking at session progression from when a user first entered the platform until a sale was made, or what other products a user bought or looked at before this purchase. Behavioral analysis allows future actions and trends to be predicted based on the collection of such data.\n\nWhile business analytics has a more broad focus on the who, what, where and when of business intelligence, behavioral analytics narrows that scope, allowing one to take seemingly unrelated data points in order to extrapolate, predict and determine errors and future trends. It takes a more holistic and human view of data, connecting individual data points to tell us not only what is happening, but also how and why it is happening.\n\nData shows that a large percentage of users using a certain eCommerce platform found it by searching for “Thai food” on Google. After landing on the homepage, most people spent some time on the “Asian Food” page and then logged off without placing an order. Looking at each of these events as separate data points does not represent what is really going on and why people did not make a purchase. However, viewing these data points as a representation of overall user behavior enables one to interpolate how and why users acted in this particular case.\nBehavioral analytics looks at all site traffic and page views as a timeline of connected events that did not lead to orders. \nSince most users left after viewing the “Asian Food” page, there could be a disconnect between what they are searching for on Google and what the “Asian Food” page displays. Knowing this, a quick look at the “Asian Food” page reveals that it does not display Thai food prominently and thus people do not think it is actually offered, even though it is.\n\nBehavioral analytics is becoming increasingly popular in commercial environments. Amazon.com is a leader in using behavioral analytics to recommend additional products that customers are likely to buy based on their previous purchasing patterns on the site. Behavioral analytics is also used by Target to suggest products to customers in their retail stores, while political campaigns use it to determine how potential voters should be approached. In addition to retail and political applications, behavioral analytics is also used by banks and manufacturing firms to prioritize leads generated by their websites. Behavioral analytics also allow developers to manage users in online-gaming and web applications.\n\nIBM and Intel are creating ecosystems of connected solutions and advanced analytics. In retail, this is the Internet of Things (IoT) for tracking shopping behaviors.\n\n\nAn ideal behavioral analytics solution would include:\n"}
{"id": "37613387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37613387", "title": "Beverly Bond", "text": "Beverly Bond\n\nBeverly Bond (born December 19, 1970) is an American former Wilhemenia model, DJ, business woman, mentor, producer, writer and founder of Black Girls Rock!. Bond is best known for her organization, Black Girls Rock! which recognizes the success of African American women.\n\nBond was born on December 19, 1970, in New York City, New York. Bond was raised by her mother, Mary Burroughs.\n\nAs a child, Bond lived in several homes throughout the state of Maryland. Bond attended a different school every year of her childhood from kindergarten to tenth grade, and sometimes two schools in one year. Her mother collected music and told her about many genres of music, including hip-hop, and world beat, blues, jazz, soul, funk, and old school. Bond started to collect her own hip-hop records, and became a serious record collector.\n\nAt the age of seventeen, Bond moved to New York to pursue a modeling career. Her first agency was Elite New Faces, where because of her 5’9 frame she was booked for jobs that were mainly for athletic brands.\n\nBonds signed with Wilhelmina Models and was booked for campaigns and commercials for Diesel Jeans, Guess, Nike, and Nordstroms.\n\nIn November 1999, Bond bought a set of turntables, with aspirations of using her extensive record collection to become a DJ. She started deejaying at local clubs in New York. As she secured more DJ work, she gradually stopped attending modelling auditions.\n\nBond spun and mixed for gatherings of high-profile celebrities like Prince, Jay-Z, Sean “Puffy” Combs, Sarah Jessica Parker, Kimora Lee Simmons, Alicia Keys, Hugo Boss, Andre Harrell and Veronica Webb, and Playboy. She spun for singer D’Angelo's \"Voodoo\" album release party. She toured with Sunshine Anderson and Musiq Soulchild for the Courvoisier tour where she was the official DJ for Erykah Badu, The Roots, Amerie, and others.\n\nBond has also spun at The Glamour Fashion Awards, the VH1 Fashion Awards, ESPN's X-Games Awards, The CFDA Awards, the Chanel parties (during New York Fashion Week), and the NY Planet Hollywood opening. She has appeared on BET's Rap City “The Basement” and has also appeared as a celebrity DJ at Eileen Fords “Super Model of the World” contest in Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 2012 Bond was honored at the ASCAP 4th Annual Women Behind the Music gathering in New York.\n\nRead More: Beverly Bond Honored at ASCAP 4th Annual Women Behind the Music Series | http://theboombox.com/beverly-bond-ascap/?trackback=tsmclip\n\nIn 2013 Bond spun at New York nightclubs, and contributed regularly to Russell Simmons' OneWorld magazine and Essence.\n\nBond is the founder of the organization Black Girls Rock! This started out with a T-shirt imprint in 2006 and grew into a mentorship program for young women promoting self-worth and empowerment.\n\nIn 2006 Bond created the BLACK GIRLS ROCK AWARDS. In 2010 she partnered with BET to broadcast the show on a national platform. Bond was the creator and executive producer of the show, which honors the accomplishments of women of color in categories that included acting, politics, music, and more. The show also has entertainment throughout the night. The premier garnered an impressive 2.7 million viewers, and the awards won an NAACP Image Award for outstanding Variety Series or Special in 2013 and 2014. The show has now reached 10 million viewers annually, and In 2015 she has initiated an associated organization, \"Black Girls Rock! Africa\".\n\nAt the 2016 awards show, Bond was thanked by Hillary Clinton for her promotion of black women. In May Bond was presented with a Women Who Care award in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "6501451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501451", "title": "Business engineering", "text": "Business engineering\n\nBusiness engineering (BE) is the development and implementation of business solutions, from business model to business processes and organizational structure to information systems and information technology (cf.).\n\nBusiness engineering focuses on developing innovative business solutions that take a sociotechnical systems (STS) approach. The STS approach addresses an enterprise as a total system in the same manner as an airplane system or an industrial facility, since they possess a similar level of complexity.\n\nBusiness engineering combines knowledge in the fields of business administration, Industrial Engineering, as well as information technology and connects it to all aspects of transformation, from means of presentation to process models to cultural and political considerations (cf. Baumöl/Jung).\n\nBusiness engineering focuses on challenges arising from the transformation of the industrial society into an information society (cf. Winter), that is the digitization of enterprises, economy, administration and society. Through the ongoing consumerization digital services for individuals have also become a crucial part of research (cf. Hess/Legner). Because of the major importance of information technology, business engineering is often held to be a subfield of Business Informatics, although it is also sometimes regarded as a form of Organization Development for its emphasis on Change Management.\n\nEngineering Management is a very close discipline which overlaps significantly with Business Engineering; the main differences are that Industrial Engineering focuses primarily on the goods sector (less on services), on technical systems and the interface between those systems as well as the users from a production point of view.\n\nÖsterle/Blessing characterize business engineering as follows:\n\n\nAt the Business Engineering Forum in St. Gallen, experts from science and business annually discuss new developments within the discipline.\n\nThe ARIS concept (cf. Scheer) distinguishes between views and levels of description. The views are the organizational, data, performance, functional and control view of processes. For every description view there are three distinct levels of description. These are the technical concept, the data processing concept and the implementation level.\nThrough this framework, specific methods can be used to describe individual elements of the model. Those methods help depict and improve business processes, from fundamental business questions to the implementation on the IT level.\n\nThe St. Gallen approach to Business Engineering comprises fundamentals and methods for different kinds of transformation projects. It distinguishes between the design level strategies, organization and information systems within the transformation process and, thus, reduces the complexity of the transformation.\n\n\nThe St. Gallen approach to Business Engineering has already been applied in more than 1.000 consultancy projects (S&T 2008). Moreover, it receives support from renowned software tools such as the ARIS toolset (Scheer 2001, S. 18), ADOben (Aier et al. 2008) or Semtalk.\n\nThe (cf. Ferstl/Sinz) provides a framework for the conceptual modeling of system types. The modeling concept differentiates three levels of such systems: The strategic business plan; the operational business process models which focus on process types; and the specifications for implementing application systems. These levels can also be regarded as constituting perspectives on the system. They correspond to the external, internal, and resource perspectives. Subsequently, the levels of the model undergo a further conceptual division according to the organizational architecture, the process model, the principles of coordination or the object system.\n\nThe Open Group Architecture Framework (TOGAF) (cf. Weinberger) presents a structure for organizational architectures which offers a holistic approach to designing, planning, implementing and maintaining information architectures and, thus, covers an important section, albeit not the entire scope, of BE. \nWhen applying TOGAF, the enterprise architecture is usually modeled in the three domains: business architecture, information systems architecture (consisting of application architecture and data architecture), and technology architecture.\n\nVan Meel and Sol (1996) define business engineering as an „integral design of organizational architectures and information systems\". Dynamic modeling as well as simulation constitute the key components of their approach.\n\nWith a specific focus on the demands of small business, The3rdgears' Business Engineering system has proven to be effective and relatively easy to implement for small to medium-sized businesses. Unique in that it involves the use of a specialised customisable software platform that integrates key business structures and operational performance processes. While The3rdgear system encapsulates the key areas of Strategy, Business Process, Technology and People, it has been proven to provide unusually consistent, predictable outcomes for small businesses due to the SME specific design of its improvement processes and software applications. This, combined with its ease of use for business owners and managers has made The3rdgear model popular within the SME marktet place.\n\nThere has been another notion and approach put forth since 2005 by the Institute of Business Engineers (IBE) while sharing the common vision and advocacy of multi-disciplinary and holistic business view, and targeting the addressed issues in business practice and education.\n\nThe IBE put forth some principles and framework addressing the modeling of the business in a holistic, concise and structural manner. The model abstracts distinct, clearly defined key elements, processes, functions and relations from the complex, vague and loosely coupled business concepts. With the emphasis of holistic and integrative system view, it helps structurally and concisely capture a specific circumstance of business in four tiers, which are in turn composed of smaller constituents, for strategic planning and implementation:\n\n\nFurthermore, to a certain extent, this model is claimed to provide a generic framework for filling the gap of other business engineering approaches in specifying business circumstances, serving as one of key pieces of puzzle in the full picture of business engineering.\n\nIn France, Télécom École de Management (or Telecom Business School) offers a master's degree in International Business Engineering that contains business administration, marketing, economics, finances, and IT.\n\nIn Belgium, there are numerous institutions offering bachelor and master programs in business engineering, among them the Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management (Université Libre de Bruxelles and Vrije Universiteit Brussel), the ICHEC Brussels Management School, the Louvain School of Management (Université catholique de Louvain, Université de Namur), the HEC Management School - University of Liège, the KU Leuven, the Ghent University, the University of Antwerp and the University of Hasselt. The programs contain both management methodology, business administration, economics, mathematics, and technical elements and computer science.\n\nIn Finland, the University of Oulu offers a diploma program in Business Engineering for which a master's degree in Engineering is required.\n\nIn Mexico, there are two main colleges that offers a professional Business Engineering program Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM) seek the following competencies:\n\nIn the other hand the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) program contains business administration, mathematics, marketing, economics, finances, and IT and computer science. Students focus in entrepreneurship and business consulting.\n\nIn Germany, the Steinbeis University offers a master’s program in Business Engineering. The contents of the degree course held in English include, similar to Belgium, management methodologies as well as fundamentals of business administration and economics. As in Finland, an academic degree in Engineering is required in order to be eligible for admission.\n\nIn Switzerland, professionals can receive the degree of Executive MBA in Business Engineering at the University of St. Gallen or at the PHW Hochschule Wirtschaft Bern. The program at the University of St. Gallen lasts 18 months and includes two modules in the USA (Santa Clara University) and China (Shanghai Jiao Tong University) where students learn about the local dynamics, culture and differences in management methods compared to Europe. The program’s main focus lies on providing practical knowledge in the areas of business strategy/business model, business processes/organizational structure, information systems/information technology, and the political and cultural dimensions of economic activity. The systematic exchange of experience among the students complements the educational concept. At the end of the program, the newly received Business Engineers are qualified to actively and holistically transform their businesses and take over executive positions within their organizations. To be eligible for admission, professionals must have an academic degree and about 5 years of work experience.\nThe program at the PHW Hochschule Wirtschaft Bern can be completed in 4 semesters and focuses on strategies of internationalization, technology management, business models and value added concepts, information management and systems, value-centered corporate governance and turnaround management.\n\nThe University of Chile offers a master’s program in Business Engineering (M. Sc.) since 2003. As in Germany and Belgium the program combines management theory, business administration, finance, economics, science and technology. The program consists of a theoretical as well as a practical part during which the students develop a project for an organization in the private or public sector. The program is designed to be completed in four semesters. Hundreds of projects have been developed since 2003, producing a validation of the proposed approach to design and a generation of knowledge that has been formalized and applied in new projects. Graduates are awarded with the academic degree \"Master of Science in Business Engineering\" (MBE) after taking the courses of the program and successfully completing their projects.\n\nThe University of the Pacific offers an academic degree in business engineering since 2008. The students deepen their knowledge in the three areas of Process Engineering, Project Engineering and Information Technology Engineering while additionally being able to choose from a wide variety of subjects to complement their studies, e.g. mathematics, physics, informatics, economics, philosophy, sociology etc.\n\nThe Escuela Superior de Economia y Negocios (ESEN) initiated a business engineering program for professionals in 2009 which focuses on the systems perspective, the modeling and analysis of complex relationships between resources, employees and information, as well as the integration of engineering expertise with a quantitative and qualitative business understanding. The program combines elements of different disciplines, e.g. business administration, economics, management, innovation and information technology. The career has a duration of 5 years with the possibility that in the third cycle of the 4th year, the student can study in Germany, Chile, United States and Mexico as long as your CUM is up 8.0.\n\nThe Ateneo de Naga University offers a bachelor program in business administration (B. Sc.) with the possibility to specialize in business engineering. The four-year program aims at training young technology-based founders and students who want to pursue a career in technology-related industries. Practice-oriented projects encourage the creativity and innovative energy needed to conceptualize and implement products and ideas while advancing the socio-economic development of the Bicol region at the same time. Moreover, the university maintains close relations to entrepreneurs and businessmen in order to enable the students to learn from \"best practices\".\n\nThe National University of Engineering in Nicaragua (UNI) offers the career \"System Engineer\" since the 90's, it focuses on the administrative field, organization, human resources management, production costs control, service marketing, project formulation and follow-up as well as other disciplines with the main objective of doing a correct and successful financial control at the private enterprise; it also gives the students the main skills and knowledge on informatics, design, data base management and information modeling to use the technology as a tool to solve problems at the companies and for the society. The career has a duration of 5 years with different completing options to get the degree of \"System Engineer\" or \"Ingeniero(a) en Sistemas\".\n\nThe Institute of Business Engineers (IBE) has been offering executive education programs on Business Engineering in Hong Kong SAR and China since 2008. This course is designed to establish a holistic and integrative business mindset for senior executives and to build up their reasoning logics with key business components for judging and decision making in the business environment. The Business Engineering course has also been offered as a major elective course to the non-business undergraduate programs of Sun Yat-San University and as an elective course to the MBA program of South China Normal University of GuangDong province from 2007 to 2008. Recently, the course “From CPA to CPA Plus” crafted under the principles of the Business Engineering of IBE has been offered for building up the systematic business mindset of the accounting professionals of HKICPA (Hong Kong Institute of Certified Professional Accountants) since 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342977", "title": "Business process", "text": "Business process\n\nA business process or business method is a collection of related, structured activities or tasks by people or equipment that in a specific sequence produces a service or product (serves a particular business goal) for a particular customer or customers. Business processes occur in all organizantional level and it may or may not be visible to customers. A business process may often be visualized (modeled) as a flowchart of a sequence of activities with interleaving decision points or as a process matrix of a sequence of activities with relevance rules based on data in the process. The benefits of using business processes include improved customer satisfaction and improved agility for reacting to rapid market change. Process-oriented organizations break down the barriers of structural departments and try to avoid functional silos.\n\nA business process begins with a mission objective (an external event) and ends with achievement of the business objective of providing a result that provides customer value. Additionally, a process may be divided into subprocesses (process decomposition), the particular inner functions of the process. Business processes may also have a process owner, a responsible party for ensuring the process runs smoothly from start to finish. \n\nBroadly speaking, business processes can be organized into three types, according to von Rosing \"et al.\":\n\n\nA slightly different approach to these three types is offered by Kirchmer:\n\n\nA complex business process may be decomposed into several subprocesses, which have their own attributes but also contribute to achieving the overall goal of the business. The analysis of business processes typically includes the mapping or modeling of processes and sub-processes down to activity/task level. Processes can be modeled through a large number of methods and techniques. For instance, the Business Process Modeling Notation is a business process modeling technique that can be used for drawing business processes in a visualized workflow. While decomposing processes into process types and categories can be useful, care must be taken in doing so as there may be crossover. In the end, all processes are part of a largely unified outcome, one of \"customer value creation.\" This goal is expedited with business process management, which aims to analyze, improve, and enact business processes.\n\nAn important early (1776) description of processes was that of economist Adam Smith in his famous example of a pin factory. Inspired by an article in Diderot's Encyclopédie, Smith described the production of a pin in the following way:\n\n”One man draws out the wire; another straights it; a third cuts it; a fourth points it; a fifth grinds it at the top for receiving the head; to make the head requires two or three distinct operations; to put it on is a peculiar business; to whiten the pins is another ... and the important business of making a pin is, in this manner, divided into about eighteen distinct operations, which, in some manufactories, are all performed by distinct hands, though in others the same man will sometimes perform two or three of them.”\n\nSmith also first recognized how the output could be increased through the use of labor division. Previously, in a society where production was dominated by handcrafted goods, one man would perform all the activities required during the production process, while Smith described how the work was divided into a set of simple tasks, which would be performed by specialized workers. The result of labor division in Smith’s example resulted in productivity increasing by 24,000 percent (sic), i.e. that the same number of workers made 240 times as many pins as they had been producing before the introduction of labor division.\n\nIt is worth noting that Smith did not advocate labor division at any price and \"per se\". The appropriate level of task division was defined through experimental design of the production process. In contrast to Smith's view which was limited to the same functional domain and comprised activities that are in direct sequence in the manufacturing process, today's process concept includes cross-functionality as an important characteristic. Following his ideas, the division of labor was adopted widely, while the integration of tasks into a functional, or cross-functional, process was not considered as an alternative option until much later.\n\nAmerican engineer, Frederick Winslow Taylor greatly influenced and improved the quality of industrial processes in the early twentieth century. His Principles of Scientific Management focused on standardization of processes, systematic training and clearly defining the roles of management and employees. His methods were widely adopted in the United States, Russia and parts of Europe and led to further developments such as “time and motion study” and visual task optimization techniques, such as Gantt charts.\n\nIn the latter part of the twentieth century, management guru Peter Drucker focused much of his work on simplification and decentralization of processes, which led to the concept of outsourcing. He also coined the concept of the \"knowledge worker — as differentiated from manual workers — and how knowledge management would become part of an entity's processes.\n\nDavenport (1993) defines a (business) process as:\n\n”a structured, measured set of activities designed to produce a specific output for a particular customer or market. It implies a strong emphasis on how work is done within an organization, in contrast to a product focus’s emphasis on what. A process is thus a specific ordering of work activities across time and space, with a beginning and an end, and clearly defined inputs and outputs: a structure for action. ... Taking a process approach implies adopting the customer’s point of view. Processes are the structure by which an organization does what is necessary to produce value for its customers.”\n\nThis definition contains certain characteristics a process must possess. These characteristics are achieved by a focus on the business logic of the process (how work is done), instead of taking a product perspective (what is done). Following Davenport's definition of a process we can conclude that a process must have clearly defined boundaries, input and output, that it consists of smaller parts, activities, which are ordered in time and space, that there must be a receiver of the process outcome- a customer - and that the transformation taking place within the process must add customer value.\n\nHammer & Champy’s (1993) definition can be considered as a subset of Davenport’s. They define a process as:\n\n”a collection of activities that takes one or more kinds of input and creates an output that is of value to the customer.”\n\nAs we can note, Hammer & Champy have a more transformation oriented perception, and put less emphasis on the structural component – process boundaries and the order of activities in time and space.\n\nRummler & Brache (1995) use a definition that clearly encompasses a focus on the organization’s external customers, when stating that\n\n”a business process is a series of steps designed to produce a product or service. Most processes (...) are cross-functional, spanning the ‘white space’ between the boxes on the organization chart. Some processes result in a product or service that is received by an organization's external customer. We call these primary processes. Other processes produce products that are invisible to the external customer but essential to the effective management of the business. We call these support processes.”\nThe above definition distinguishes two types of processes, primary and support processes, depending on whether a process is directly involved in the creation of customer value, or concerned with the organization’s internal activities. In this sense, Rummler and Brache's definition follows Porter's value chain model, which also builds on a division of primary and secondary activities. According to Rummler and Brache, a typical characteristic of a successful process-based organization is the absence of secondary activities in the primary value flow that is created in the customer oriented primary processes. The characteristic of processes as spanning the white space on the organization chart indicates that processes are embedded in some form of organizational structure. Also, a process can be cross-functional, i.e. it ranges over several business functions.\n\nJohansson et al. (1993). define a process as:\n\n”a set of linked activities that take an input and transform it to create an output. Ideally, the transformation that occurs in the process should add value to the input and create an output that is more useful and effective to the recipient either upstream or downstream.”\n\nThis definition also emphasizes the constitution of links between activities and the transformation that takes place within the process. Johansson et al. also include the upstream part of the value chain as a possible recipient of the process output. Summarizing the four definitions above, we can compile the following list of characteristics for a business process:\n\n\nFrequently, identifying a process owner, (i.e., the person responsible for the continuous improvement of the process) is considered as a prerequisite. Sometimes the process owner is the same person who is performing the process.\n\nWorkflow is the procedural movement of information, material, and tasks from one participant to another. Workflow includes the procedures, people and tools involved in each step of a business process. A single workflow may either be sequential, with each step contingent upon completion of the previous one, or parallel, with multiple steps occurring simultaneously. Multiple combinations of single workflows may be connected to achieve a resulting overall process.\n\nBusiness process re-engineering (BPR) was originally conceptualized by Hammer and Davenport as a means to improve organizational effectiveness and productivity. It consisted of starting from a blank slate and completely recreating major business processes as well as the use of information technology for significant performance improvement. The term unfortunately became associated with corporate \"downsizing\" in the mid-1990s.\n\nThough the term has been used contextually to mixed effect, \"business process management\" (BPM) can generally be defined as a discipline involving a combination of a wide variety of business activity flows (e.g., business process automation, modeling, and optimization) that strives to support the goals of an enterprise within and beyond multiple boundaries, involving many people, from employees to customers and external partners. A major part of BPM's enterprise support involves the continuous evaluation of existing processes and the identification of ways to improve upon it, resulting in a cycle of overall organizational improvement.\n\nKnowledge management is the definition of the knowledge that employees and systems use to perform their functions and maintaining it in a format that can be accessed by others. The Duhon and the Gartner Group have defined it as \"a discipline that promotes an integrated approach to identifying, capturing, evaluating, retrieving, and sharing all of an enterprise's information assets. These assets may include databases, documents, policies, procedures, and previously un-captured expertise and experience in individual workers.\"\n\nTotal quality management (TQM) emerged in the early 1980s as organizations sought to improve the quality of their products and services. It was followed by the Six Sigma methodology in the mid-1980s, first introduced by Motorola. Six Sigma consists of statistical methods to improve business processes and thus reduce defects in outputs. The \"lean approach\" to quality management was introduced by the Toyota Motor Company in the 1990s and focused on customer needs and reduction of wastage.\n\nAdvances in information technology over the years, have changed business processes within and between business enterprises. In the 1960s, operating systems had limited functionality, and any workflow management systems that were in use were tailor-made for the specific organization. The 1970s-1980s saw the development of data-driven approaches, as data storage and retrieval technologies improved. Data modeling rather than process modeling was the starting point for building an information system. Business processes had to adapt to information technology because process modeling was neglected. The shift towards process-oriented management occurred in the 1990s. Enterprise resource planning software with workflow management components such as SAP, Baan, PeopleSoft, Oracle and JD Edwards emerged, as did business process management systems (BPMS) later.\n\nThe world of e-business created a need to automate business processes across organizations, which in turn raised the need for standardized protocols and web services composition languages that can be understood across the industry. The Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN) and Business Motivation Model (BMM) are widely used standards for business modeling. The Business Modeling and Integration Domain Task Force (BMI DTF) is a consortium of vendors and user companies that continues to work together to develop standards and specifications to promote collaboration and integration of people, systems, processes and information within and across enterprises.\n\nThe most recent trends in BPM are influenced by the emergence of cloud technology, the prevalence of social media, mobile technology, and the development of analytical techniques. Cloud-based technologies allow companies to purchase resources quickly and as required independent of their location. Social media, websites and smart phones are the newest channels through which organizations reach and support their customers. The abundance of customer data collected through these channels as well as through call center interactions, emails, voice calls, and customer surveys has led to a huge growth in data analytics which in turn is utilized for performance management and improving the ways in which the company services its customers.\n\nBusiness processes comprise a set of sequential sub-processes or tasks with alternative paths, depending on certain conditions as applicable, performed to achieve a given objective or produce given outputs. Each process has one or more needed inputs. The inputs and outputs may be received from, or sent to other business processes, other organizational units, or internal or external stakeholders.\n\nBusiness processes are designed to be operated by one or more business functional units, and emphasize the importance of the “process chain” rather than the individual units.\n\nIn general, the various tasks of a business process can be performed in one of two ways:\n\n\nTypically, some process tasks will be manual, while some will be computer-based, and these tasks may be sequenced in many ways. In other words, the data and information that are being handled through the process may pass through manual or computer tasks in any given order.\n\nThe above improvement areas are equally applicable to policies, processes, detailed procedures (sub-processes/tasks) and work instructions. There is a cascading effect of improvements made at a higher level on those made at a lower level.\n\nFor example, if a recommendation to replace a given policy with a better one is made with proper justification and accepted in principle by business process owners, then corresponding changes in the consequent processes and procedures will follow naturally in order to enable implementation of the policies.\n\nBusiness processes must include up-to-date and accurate reports to ensure effective action. An example of this is the availability of purchase order status reports for supplier delivery follow-up as described in the section on effectiveness above. There are numerous examples of this in every possible business process.\n\nAnother example from production is the process of analysis of line rejections occurring on the shop floor. This process should include systematic periodical analysis of rejections by reason, and present the results in a suitable information report that pinpoints the major reasons, and trends in these reasons, for management to take corrective actions to control rejections and keep them within acceptable limits. Such a process of analysis and summarisation of line rejection events is clearly superior to a process which merely inquires into each individual rejection as it occurs.\n\nBusiness process owners and operatives should realise that process improvement often occurs with introduction of appropriate transaction, operational, highlight, exception or M.I.S. reports, provided these are consciously used for day-to-day or periodical decision-making. With this understanding would hopefully come the willingness to invest time and other resources in business process improvement by introduction of useful and relevant reporting systems.\n\nThe span of control is the number of subordinates a supervisor manages within a structural organization. Introducing a business process concept has a considerable impact on the structural elements of the organization and thus also on the span of control.\n\nLarge organizations that are not organized as markets need to be organized in smaller units – departments – which can be defined according to different principles.\n\nInformation management, and the organization infrastructure strategies related to it, are a theoretical cornerstone of the business process concept, requiring \"a framework for measuring the level of IT support for business processes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34126477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34126477", "title": "Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences", "text": "Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences\n\nCanadian Journal of Administrative Sciences (French: \"Revue Canadienne des Sciences de l'Administration\") is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Administrative Sciences Association of Canada. , the editor-in-chief is Michel Laroche (Concordia University). The journal publishes articles in both English and French in all key disciplines of business. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2015 impact factor is 0.405, ranking it 109 out of 120 journals in the category \"Business\" and 179 out of 192 journals in the category \"Management\".\n\nThe following persons have been or currently are editors of the journal:\n"}
{"id": "50008120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50008120", "title": "Cholzer Chancy", "text": "Cholzer Chancy\n\nCholzer Chancy (born 16 February 1967) is a Haitian politician. He was Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies between 11 January 2016 and 11 January 2018. He is a member of the political party Haiti in Action.\n\nChancy was born on 16 February 1967 in Ennery, Artibonite. His parents were both farmers and Chancy aspired a career in agriculture. Chancy did however not manage to enter the faculty of agriculture at university and instead went to the \"l'Institut national d'administration, de gestion et des hautes études internationales\" (INAGHEI) in 1991. After studying Chancy became a businessman and owned a Texaco petrol station.\n\nChancy ran as a candidate of the party \"l'espace de concertation\" for the Chamber of Deputies in the 2000 parliamentary elections, he however retracted his candidacy for the second round. He was elected in the 2006 elections for the party Haiti in Action. Chancy was re-elected in the 2010 elections. During this term he served as President of the Finance commission.\n\nOn 11 January 2016 Chancy won the election of Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies, he obtained 46 votes while his opponent Jerry Tardieu of the Truth party obtained 44 votes. After his election Chancy was involved in seeking a solution to the political crisis in Haiti that occurred after the Presidential term of Michel Martelly had expired, and no new President was elected yet. After a vote in the Chamber of Deputies on 14 February Chancy declared Jocelerme Privert acting President.\n\nIn January 2017 Chancy was reelected as Speaker. He was succeeded as Speaker by Gary Bodeau on 11 January 2018.\n"}
{"id": "22622487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22622487", "title": "Community business development corporation", "text": "Community business development corporation\n\nThe Community Business Development Corporation (CBDC) (French: La Corporation de développement communautaire) is a federal and provincially funded not-for-profit organization. CBDCs assist in the creation of small businesses and in the expansion and modernization of existing small businesses by providing financial and technical services to entrepreneurs.\n\nThe organisation was founded in the 1970s and currently holds 41 offices throughout Atlantic Canada. The 41 offices are autonomous corporations but each work with their respective Provincial Association office. The Provincial Association offices are located in; Alberton, PEI; Elmsdale, NS; Mount Pearl, NL; and Bathurst, NB. These 4 offices work with the Atlantic Association of CBDCs to constantly improve the services offered by the CBDC network. The CBDCs are a member of the Community Futures Network of Canada.\n\nCBDCs operate under the guidance of a local Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is representative of the area served by the CBDC, and all members of the board are community business leaders and volunteers. This organizational structure permits the CBDC to play a direct and active role in employment development within their jurisdiction. The Board of Directors is complemented by a professional staff, varying in size depending on the level of activity within the region served and resources made available to it by the Government of Canada. CBDCs act as a delivery agent for several governmental financing programs for small business. They have options available to help individuals establish a new business, expand an existing one, or to stabilize/modernize their current business.\n\nCBDC offers financial assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees and equity financing to existing and aspiring entrepreneurs. It puts a high priority to the advisory role of its mandate by focusing on providing business counselling and advice to its clients. CBDC provides entrepreneurship development and training to individuals and small business owners. It can also advocate on behalf of its clients to other lending establishments or regulatory agencies. Typically CBDC targets its services to entrepreneurs who require customized financing not available from traditional sources.\n\nSome of the custom financing options offered include but are not limited to; CBDC Social Enterprise Loan, CBDC First-Time Entrepreneur Loan, CBDC General Business Loan, CBDC Youth Loan, CBDC Innovation Loan, Self Employment Assistance Program and the Consultant Advisory Services Program.\n\nThe CBDCs are dedicated to the development of small business and job creation and enhancement in rural Atlantic Canada. CBDCs are subject to Treasury Board of Canada regulations.\n"}
{"id": "37551679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37551679", "title": "Country attractiveness", "text": "Country attractiveness\n\nCountry attractiveness is a multidisciplinary concept at the crossroads of development economics, financial economics, comparative law and political science: it aims at tracking and contrasting the relative appeal of different territories and jurisdictions competing for “scarce” investment inflows, by scoring them quantitatively and qualitatively across \"ad hoc\" series of variables such as GDP growth, tax rates, capital repatriation … etc.\n\nThere are multiple factors determining host country attractiveness in the eyes of large foreign direct institutional investors, notably pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Research conducted by the World Pensions Council (WPC) suggests that perceived legal/political stability over time and medium-term economic growth dynamics constitute the two main determinants\n\nSome development economists believe that a sizeable part of Western Europe has now fallen behind the most dynamic amongst Asia’s emerging markets, notably because the latter adopted policies more propitious to long-term investments: “Successful countries such as Singapore, Indonesia and South Korea still remember the harsh adjustment mechanisms imposed abruptly upon them by the IMF and World Bank during the 1997-1998 ‘Asian Crisis’ […] What they have achieved in the past 10 years is all the more remarkable: they have quietly abandoned the “Washington consensus” [the dominant Neoclassical perspective] by investing massively in infrastructure projects […] this pragmatic approach proved to be very successful.”\n"}
{"id": "25369525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25369525", "title": "Data Applied", "text": "Data Applied\n\nData Applied is a software vendor headquartered in Washington. Founded by a group of former Microsoft employees, the company specializes in data mining, data visualization, and business intelligence environments.\n\nData Applied implements a collection of visualization tools and algorithms for data analysis and data mining. The product supports several types of analytical tasks, including visual reporting, tree maps, time series forecasting, correlation analysis, outlier detection, decision trees, association rules, clustering, and self-organizing maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "16290354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16290354", "title": "Dividends received deduction", "text": "Dividends received deduction\n\nThe dividends-received deduction (or \"DRD\"), under U.S. federal income tax law, is a tax deduction received by a corporation on the dividends it receives by other corporations in which it has an ownership stake.\n\nThis deduction is designed to reduce the consequences of alleged triple taxation. Otherwise, corporate profits would be taxed to the corporation that earned them, then to the corporate shareholder, and then to the individual shareholder. While Congress allowed for double taxation on corporations, it did not intend a triple - and potentially infinitely-tiered - tax to apply to corporate profits at every level of their distribution. \nThe dividends-received deduction complements the consolidated return regulations, which allow affiliated corporations to file a single consolidated return for U.S. federal income tax purposes.\n\nGenerally, if a corporation receives dividends from another corporation, it is entitled to a deduction of 50 percent of the dividend it receives. If the corporation receiving the dividend owns 20 percent or more, then the amount of the deduction increases to 65 percent. If, on the other hand, the corporation receiving the dividend owns more than 80 percent of the distributing corporation, it is allowed to deduct 100 percent of the dividend it receives.\n\nNote that in order for the deduction to apply, the corporation paying the dividend must also be liable for tax (\"i.e.\", it must be subject to the double taxation that the deduction is intended to prevent).\n\n\"The Taxable Income Limitation -\"\nThe dividends received deduction is limited with regard to the corporate shareholder’s taxable income. Per §246(b) of the IRC, a corporation with the rights to a seventy percent dividends received deduction, can deduct the dividend amount only up to seventy percent of the corporation’s taxable income. Furthermore, a corporation with the rights to an eighty percent dividends received deduction can deduct the dividend amount only up to eighty percent of the corporation’s taxable income. There are two exceptions to The Taxable Income Limitation. No taxable income restriction is placed on a corporation with a one-hundred percent dividends received deduction. Second, if the dividends received deduction increases or creates a net operating loss, the limitation does not apply.\n\nFor purposes of determining the appropriate dividends received deduction, a corporate shareholder’s taxable income should be computed without including net operating losses (NOL’s), capital loss carrybacks, and the dividends received deduction.\n\n\"The Holding Period Limitation –\"\nIn order to receive the tax benefit of a dividends received deduction, a corporate shareholder must hold all shares of the distributing corporation’s stock for a period of more than 45 days. Per §246(c)(1)(A), a dividends received deduction is denied under §243 with respect to any share of stock that is held by the taxpayer for 45 days or less.\n\nThe complexity of this limitation is amplified per §246(c)(4). Section 246(c)(4) states that the stock’s holding period is reduced for any period in which the taxpayer has an option to sell, is under a contractual obligation to sell, or has made a short sale of substantially identical securities. In revenue ruling 94-28, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) explains that the principle behind §246(c)(4) is to deny credit toward the 45-day holding period for any period during which the taxpayer is protected from the risk of loss inherent in the ownership of an equity interest.\n\n\"Debt-financed Dividends Received Limitation –\"\nCode Section 246A disallows the benefit of the dividends received deduction for debt financed purchases of corporate portfolio stock. As stated by the Joint Committee on Taxation, the provision reduces the deduction for dividends received on debt-financed portfolio stock. Therefore, the dividends received deduction is available only with respect to dividends “attributable” to stock financed through other means besides debt. A simple ratio is computed to determine what percentage of an investment is debt-financed. As a result, the dividends received deduction is reduced by the percentage of the investment funded by debt.\n\n"}
{"id": "55797066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55797066", "title": "Dmitry Lukashenko", "text": "Dmitry Lukashenko\n\nDmitry Lukashenko (, , Dzmitry Lukashenka, born March 23, 1980) is a Belarusian businessman and son of Alexander Lukashenko, the authoritarian president of Belarus.\n\nDmitry Lukashenko graduated from the International Relations faculty of the Belarusian State University. He served in the Border Guard Service of Belarus.\n\nHe is the head of the Presidential Sports Club.\n\nIn 2011, after the wave of repressions that followed the 2010 presidential election in Belarus, Dmitry Lukashenko became subject to an EU travel ban and asset freeze as part of a sanctions list of 208 individuals responsible for political repressions, electoral fraud and propaganda. The sanctions were lifted in 2016.\n\nIn the EU Council's decision, Dmitry Lukashenko has been described as \"Businessman, with active participation in financial operations involving the Lukashenka family.”\n\nBesides that, Dmitry Lukashenko remains one of the few people on the sanctions list of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "20053969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20053969", "title": "Dolf Kessler", "text": "Dolf Kessler\n\nGeldolph Adriaan \"Dolf\" Kessler (2 April 1884 – 20 August 1945) was a Dutch footballer and industrialist. Kessler – along with brother Boeli and cousins Tonny and Dé – played club football for amateur side HVV Den Haag. Kessler also won three caps for the Dutch national side between 1905 and 1906.\n\nKessler was born in a very wealthy family from The Hague, the oldest son of six children. His father Jean Baptiste August Kessler (1853–1900) was the first director of the Koninklijke Maatschappij tot exploitatie van Petroleumbronnen in Nederlandsch-Indië (K.N.M.E.P.) (\"Royal Dutch Society for the exploitation of Petroleumsources in the Dutch East-Indies\"), which would eventually turn into the Koninklijke Nederlandse Petroleum Maatschappij (\"Royal Dutch Petroleum Company\"), now named Royal Dutch Shell.\n\nDolf made his debut as a football player at seventeen years of age, at the Hague football club HVV. At first he stood leftback, later he was a right winger. At HVV he became national champion four times between 1901 and 1905. On 30 April 1905 he was captain during the first official interland of the Dutch national team. They beat Belgium with a 4–1 score. The second interland and first home match also saw Kessler leading the team. For his third and last interland in 1906 Dolf had passed the captaincy on to Kees Bekker. Kessler seriously considered a career in football until later that year he dislocated his knee, ending his career in football. Sports, however, remained important to him.\n\nIn 1907 Kessler graduated from the Technische Hogeschool Delft (\"Delft University of Technology\"), as a mechanical engineer. He got a job as secretary for Henri Deterding, who had succeeded Dolf's father as the director of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company. He worked for the company until 1915, when he left to look for a different job. As Joost Jonker and Jan Luiten van Zanden write in \"A History of the Royal Dutch Shell\", his fiancée, Elizabeth \"Bep\" Stoop (herself a daughter of a prominent oil explorer, Adriaan Stoop), \"put his love for her to the test by asking him to choose between her and the Group.\" His younger brother Jean Baptiste August \"Guus\" Kessler Jr., who had married Bep's cousin, Anna Francoise \"Ans\" Stoop, continued with the Royal Dutch and eventually rose to head their father's company.\n\nIn 1918 Dolf joined the committee for the funding of the Hoogovens (\"Dutch Blast Furnaces\"). In 1920 he became economical director and from 1924 on he was also the director-general. He was considered a very innovative manager, steering the company through the difficult economic environment of the Great Depression; he also believed it was necessary to provide fair wages and establish a pension plan—unusual for that time. \"His drive, entrepreneurship, imagination and leadership secured Hoogovens a firm foothold in a very competitive industry at a very difficult time.\" Dolf and his brother Guus, as leading figures in two major Dutch business concerns, at one point formed a joint venture between the Hoogovens and Royal Dutch Shell to combat a perceived threat to the oil business by IG Farben.\n\nKessler would remain the director of Hoogovens until his death from a brain tumor in 1945, with a short break during the Second World War, when the Germans kept him hostage in camp Beekvliet in Sint-Michielsgestel.\n\nDolf and his wife Bep (1891–1968) had four sons and two daughters. Their home, known as Slingerduin or the Villa Kessler, was built and designed in 1929 by the prominent Dutch architect Hendrik Wouda (1885–1946), a follower of Frank Lloyd Wright. They owned of one of the few known paintings by Hercules Seghers (1589/90–1637/38)--\"River Valley\" (1620)--which now is displayed by the Mauritshuis Museum (Royal Picture Galley) in The Hague.\n\nKessler was an uncle of the Dutch diplomat and historian Max Kohnstamm (1914–2010), with whom he was interned at camp Beekvliet in Sint-Michielsgestel; they became quite close there despite the difference in age. The American journalist Glenn Kessler is one of his grandchildren.\n\nIn 2016, the Rijksmuseum published, as part of its Studies in Photography series, \"Around the World in 87 Photographs: Dolph Kessler's Grand Tour, 1908,\" by Mickey Hoyle. Kessler took photographs while traveling on business for Royal Dutch Shell with Deterding. His photographs, and the commentary he wrote to his mother, are described as an early example of a photographic travel journal, as very few people at that time were privileged to make such a journey.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7967131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7967131", "title": "Dépeçage", "text": "Dépeçage\n\nIn law, dépeçage is a conflict of laws where different issues within a case may be governed by the laws of different states. In common law countries \"dépeçage\" usually means a single contract which provides that different parts of the contract shall be governed by different laws. In the United States, \"depecage choice of law theory\" is where the court considers disagreement among states over which rule of law is applicable to each issue.\n\nThe concept originated in civil law countries, but has also been adopted in common law countries such as the United Kingdom and Ireland pursuant to the Rome Convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Article 3(1)).\n\nIn practice, it is relatively rare for a contract to have more than one expressly chosen governing law. Two examples of such situations are:\n"}
{"id": "38732269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38732269", "title": "EVR Periyar Salai", "text": "EVR Periyar Salai\n\nThe road, particularly along its eastern end, has some of the most impressive civic institutions and heritage structures of the city, including the Ripon Building (the seat of civic body), the Victoria Public Hall (the city's Town Hall), the Central train station, the Moore Market (razed in the late 20th century), Madras Medical College, and St Andrew’s Kirk.\n\nIt connects two of the vital transport installations of the city, viz. Chennai Central railway station and the CMBT. The road has more hospitals than any other roads in the city and is popularly known as the city's 'Med street'. The road is named after the noted Social activist and politician Periyar E. V. Ramasamy.\n\nPoonamallee High Road, the city’s longest road, was built to connect Fort St. George to a British military installation some 23 kilometers west of the city.\n\nEVR Periyar Salai is wide in most stretches, except for the stretch between Koyambedu and Anna Nagar Arch, which has only four lanes. The width of the road varies from two to nine lanes or from . The road narrows at the stretches between Ripon Building and Government Fine Arts College, Pachaiyappa's College and Shenoy Nagar junction, and DG Vaishnav College and Koyambedu. The road has not been widened since the 1980s. The road is used by more than 185,000 vehicles every day. Heavy containers from and to the Chennai Port use this road at night, making it one of the heavily worn roads of the city and necessitating regular re-laying. As of 2008, about 11,000 passenger cars cross any given point of the road every hour. As of 2013, this has been projected to 19,000 passenger cars, more than five times the designed capacity of the road.\n\nIn 2011, the bridge across Cooum river at Aminjikkarai was widened at a cost of 69 million.\n\nIn 2013, a new and wider bridge on the road across the Cooum river near Ampa Skywalk was planned at an estimated cost of 80 million under the Chennai Metropolitan Development Programme (CMDP). The 47-m-long bridge with 10 lanes, which will be the third \"high-level bridge\" over the river, will be broader than the road with 6 lanes. The bridge, at road level, will be at a height of 9.5 m from the riverbed. The bridge will have the same design as the old one abutting it, with two abutments and two piers.\n\nWith several hospitals, clinics, pharmacies and diagnostic laboratories dotting its entire length, EVR Periyar Salai is often called Chennai's 'med street', similar to London's Harley Street. The establishment of two of the major government-run hospitals, the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital, remains a significant reason behind the road's morphing into a medical destination. The stretch is also home to Pandalai Nursing Home, one of the earliest private hospitals in the city, established in 1932, prior to which all hospitals were run by either the British or missionaries. Many private healthcare centres were opened since then, such as Sundaravadanan Nursing Home in 1934 and Ramarau Polyclinic in 1938, which had one of the earliest X-ray units. The stretch also has about 25 standalone pharmacies.\n\nAs of 2014, the arterial stretch carries around 250,000 vehicles a day, of which two-wheelers constituted 60 percent, cars 30 percent, and buses and other heavy vehicles the remaining.\n\nMajor landmarks dotting the road include the following:\n\n\nIn May 2013, a 300-m stretch of the road at Shenoy Nagar near Aminjikarai which acted as a bottleneck was widened, following a Madras High Court ruling. Officials of the state highways department cleared the encroachments that had reduced the width of the road.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) conceived an idea of a 6.5-km stretch connecting the two arterial stretches of Poonamallee High Road and Anna Salai in the city. The idea is to create a traffic corridor connecting Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road through the congested neighbourhoods of Chetpet, Nungambakkam and T. Nagar. In 2014, the Corporation modified the original alignment to create two corridors, namely, a 3.5-km stretch from Anna Salai to Mahalingapuram and a 3-km flyover connecting Thirumalai Pillai Road and Poonamallee High Road (covering five traffic bottlenecks in Chetpet junction, Sterling Road junction, Tank Bund Road junctions and Valluvar Kottam High Road junction).\n\nIn 2014, the highways department fixed the alignment of a 5.18-km-long, 4-laned elevated corridor that will take off at Raja Muthiah Salai, near Ripon Buildings, and descend near Pulla Reddy Avenue in Shenoy Nagar. The project has been estimated to cost 4,500 million.\n"}
{"id": "29723359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29723359", "title": "Enterprise bus matrix", "text": "Enterprise bus matrix\n\nThe Enterprise Bus Matrix is a data Warehouse planning tool and model created by Ralph Kimball, and is part of the Data Warehouse Bus Architecture. The Matrix is the logical definition of one of the core concepts of Kimball’s approach to Dimensional Modeling – Conformed dimensions.\n\nThe Bus Matrix defines part of the Data Warehouse Bus Architecture and is an output of the Business Requirements phase in The Kimball Lifecycle. It is applied in the following phases of dimensional modeling and development of the Data Warehouse . The matrix can be categorized as a hybrid model, being part technical design tool, part project management tool and part communication tool\n\nThe Enterprise Bus Matrix stems from the issue of how one goes about creating the overall Data Warehouse environment. Historically there has been the structure of the centralized and planned approach and the more loosely defined, department specific, solutions developed in a more independent matter. Autonomous projects can result in a range of isolated stove pipe data marts. Naturally each approach has its issues; the overall visionary approach often struggles with long delivery cycles and lack of reaction time as the formalities and scope issues is evident. On the other hand, the development of isolated data marts, leading to Stovepipe systems that lacks synergy in development. Over time this approach will lead to a so-called data-mart-in-a-box architecture where interoperability and lack of cohesion is apparent, and can hinder the realization of an overall enterprise Data Warehouse. As an attempt to handle this matter Ralph Kimball introduced the enterprise bus.\n\nThe bus matrix purpose is one of high abstraction and visionary planning on the Data Warehouse architectural level. By dictating coherency in the development and implementation of an overall Data Warehouse the Bus Architecture approach enables an overall vision of the broader enterprise integration and consistency while at the same time dividing the problem into more manageable parts – all in a technology and software independent manner .\n\nThe bus matrix and architecture builds upon the concept of conformed dimensions - creating a structure of common dimensions that ideally can be used across the enterprise by all business processes related to the DW and the corresponding fact tables from which they derive their context. According to Kimball and Margy Ross's article “Differences of Opinion” \"\"The Enterprise Data warehouse built on the bus architecture ”identifies and enforces the relationship between business process metrics (facts) and descriptive attributes (dimensions)\"”.\n\nThe concept of a bus is well known in the language of Information Technology, and is what reflects the conformed dimension concept in the Data Warehouse, creating the skeletal structure where all parts of a system connect, ensuring interoperability and consistency of data, and at the same time considers future expansion. This makes the conformed dimensions act as the integration ‘glue’, creating a robust backbone of the enterprise Data Warehouse.\n\nFigure 1 shows the base for a single document planning tool for the whole of the DW implementation - a graphical overview of the enterprises core business processes or events each correspond to a measurement table of facts, that typically is complemented by a major source system in the horizontal rows. In the vertical columns the groups of contextual data is found as the common, conformed dimensions.\n\nIn this way the shared dimensions are defined, as each process indicates what dimensions it applies to through the cells figure 2. By this definition and coordination of conformed dimensions and processes the development of the overall data DW bus architecture is realized. The matrix identifies the shared dimensions related to processes and fact tables, and can be a tool for planning, prioritizing what needs to be approached, coordinating implementation and communicating the importance for conformed dimensions .\n\nKimball extends the matrix bus in detail as seen in figure 3 by introducing the other steps of the Datawarehouse Methodology; The Fact tables, Granularity, and at last the description of the needed facts. description of the fact tables, granularity and fact instances of each process, structuring and specifying what is needed across the enterprise in a more specific matter, further exemplifying how the matrix can be used as a planning tool.\n"}
{"id": "31512279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31512279", "title": "Financial Markets Authority (New Zealand)", "text": "Financial Markets Authority (New Zealand)\n\nThe Financial Markets Authority (FMA) is the New Zealand government agency responsible for financial regulation. It is responsible for regulating all financial market participants, exchanges and the setting and enforcing of financial regulations.\n\nThe authority was established on the 1st of May 2011 as part of the \"Financial Markets (Regulators and KiwiSaver) Bill\" which was passed by the New Zealand parliament on the 7 April 2011. It was established in a wake of criticism over the failure of the previous regulatory regime to halt the failure of a large number of finance companies and to stem investor losses in the period between 2006 and 2010. It was introduced by Commerce Minister Simon Power as a \"super regulator\" whose purpose was to restore investor confidence battered by the finance company meltdown and global financial crisis. \"This move is at the centre of the Government's drive to restore the confidence of mum and dad investors in our financial markets,\" he said.\n\nThe Authority took over the functions of the Securities Commission of New Zealand and Government Actuary which were disestablished, and consolidates other regulatory functions which were fragmented across the Ministry of Economic Development (New Zealand) the Companies Office and its National Enforcement Unit.\n\nThe FMA is controlled by a board appointed by the Minister of Commerce and run by chief executive Rob Everett. The board comprises chairman Murray Jack and members Arthur Grimes, Campbell Stuart, Mark Todd, Mary Holm, Shelley Cave, Vanessa Stoddart, and William Stevens.\n\nThe FMA's official website says its key statutory objective is \"to promote and facilitate the development of fair, efficient, and transparent financial markets\" and that it \"will use the full range of its enforcement powers, targeting conduct that presents the greatest likelihood of harm to the function of open, transparent and efficient capital markets.\" Since it was established in 2011, it has been involved in legal action against Bridgecorp, KA Trustee Ltd, Perpetual, Hanover Finance, Lombard Finance, Sean Wood, Nathans Finance, Bernard Whimp and David Ross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16728015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16728015", "title": "Financial Stability Forum", "text": "Financial Stability Forum\n\nThe Financial Stability Forum (FSF) was a group consisting of major national financial authorities such as finance ministries, central bankers, and international financial bodies. It was first convened in April 1999 in Washington. At the 2009 G20 London summit, the G20 nations established an FSF successor called the Financial Stability Board with an expanded membership and broadened mandate.\n\nThe Forum was founded in 1999 to promote international financial stability. Its founding resulted from discussions among Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors of the G7 countries, and a study which they commissioned. The Forum facilitated discussion and cooperation on supervision and surveillance of financial institutions, transactions and events. FSF was managed by a small secretariat housed at the Bank for International Settlements in Basel, Switzerland. The FSF membership included about a dozen nations who participate through their central banks, financial ministries and departments, and securities regulators, including: the United States, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada, Australia, the Netherlands and several other industrialized economies as well as several international economic organizations.\n\nAt the G20 summit on November 15, 2008, it was agreed that the membership of the FSF will be expanded to include emerging economies, such as China. The 2009 G-20 London summit decided to establish a successor to the FSF, the Financial Stability Board. The FSB includes members of the G20 who were not members of FSF.\n\nThe Financial Stability Forum met in Rome on 28–29 March 2008 in connection with the Bank for International Settlements. Members discussed current challenges in financial markets, and various policy options to address them from this point forward.\n\nAt this meeting, the FSF discussed a report to be delivered to G7 Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors in April 2008. it identifies key weaknesses underlying current financial turmoil, and recommends actions to improve market and institutional resilience. The FSF discussed work underway at the IMF and OECD with regard to sovereign wealth funds (SWFs). The IMF is working closely with SWFs to identify a set of voluntary best practice guidelines, and is focusing on the governance, institutional arrangements and transparency of SWFs.\n\nOn April 12, 2008, the FSF delivered a report to the G7 Finance Ministers which details out its recommendations for enhancing the resilience of the financial markets and financial institutions. These are in five areas:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39379160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379160", "title": "Fluorochemical industry", "text": "Fluorochemical industry\n\nThe global market for chemicals from fluorine was about US$16 billion per year as of 2006. The industry was predicted to reach 2.6 million metric tons per year by 2015. The largest market is the United States. Western Europe is the second largest. Asia Pacific is the fastest growing region of production. China in particular has experienced significant growth as a fluorochemical market and is becoming a producer of them as well. Fluorite mining (the main source of fluorine) was estimated in 2003 to be a $550 million industry, extracting 4.5 million tons per year.\n\nMined fluorite is separated into two main grades, with about equal production of each. \"Acidspar\" is at least 97% CaF; \"metspar\" is much lower purity, 60–85%. (A small amount of the intermediate, \"ceramic\", grade is also made.) Metspar is used almost exclusively for iron smelting. Acidspar is primarily converted to hydrofluoric acid (by reaction with sulfuric acid). The resultant HF is mostly used to produce organofluorides and synthetic cryolite.\n\nAbout 3 kg (6.5 lb) of metspar grade fluorite, added directly to the batch, are used for every metric ton of steel made. The fluoride ions from CaF lower the melt's temperature and viscosity (make the liquid runnier). The calcium content has a tangential benefit in removing sulfur and phosphorus, but other additives such as lime are still needed. Metspar is similarly used in cast iron production and for other iron-containing alloys.\n\nFluorite of the acidspar grade is used directly as an additive to ceramics and enamels, glass fibers and clouded glass, and cement, as well as in the outer coating of welding rods. Acidspar is primarily used for making hydrofluoric acid, which is a chemical intermediate for most fluorine-containing compounds. Significant direct uses of HF include pickling (cleaning) of steel, cracking of alkanes in the petrochemical industry, and etching of glass.\n\nOne third of HF (one sixth of mined fluorine) is used to make synthetic cryolite (sodium hexafluoroaluminate) and aluminium trifluoride. These compounds are used in the electrolysis of aluminium by the Hall–Héroult process. About 23 kg (51 lb) are required for every metric ton of aluminium. These compounds are also used as a flux for glass.\n\nFluorosilicates are the next most significant inorganic fluorides formed from HF. The most common one, that of sodium, is used for water fluoridation, as an intermediate for synthetic cryolite and silicon tetrafluoride, and for treatment of effluents in laundries.\n\nMgF and, to a lesser extent, other alkaline earth difluorides are specialty optical materials. Magnesium difluoride is widely used as an antireflection coating for spectacles and optical equipment. The compound is also a component in newly devised constructions (negative index metamaterials) which are the subject of \"invisibility\" research. The layered structures can curve light around objects.\n\nOther inorganic fluorides made in large quantities include cobalt difluoride (for organofluorine synthesis), nickel difluoride (electronics), lithium fluoride (a flux), sodium fluoride (water fluoridation), potassium fluoride (flux), and ammonium fluoride (various). Sodium and potassium bifluorides are significant to the chemical industry.\n\nMaking organic fluorides is the main use for hydrofluoric acid, consuming over 40% of it (over 20% of all mined fluorite). Within organofluorides, refrigerant gases are still the dominant segment, consuming about 80% of HF. Even though chlorofluorocarbons are widely banned, the replacement refrigerants are often other fluorinated molecules. Fluoropolymers are less than one quarter the size of refrigerant gases in terms of fluorine usage, but are growing faster. Fluorosurfactants are a small segment in mass but are significant economically because of very high prices.\n\nTraditionally chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) were the predominant fluorinated organic chemical. CFCs are identified by a system of numbering that explains the amount of fluorine, chlorine, carbon and hydrogen in the molecules. The term Freon has been colloquially used for CFCs and similar halogenated molecules, though strictly speaking this is just a DuPont brand name, and many other producers exist. Brand neutral terminology is to use \"R\" as the prefix. Prominent CFCs included R-11 (trichlorofluoromethane), R-12 (dichlorodifluoromethane), and R-114 (1,2-dichlorotetrafluoroethane).\n\nProduction of CFCs grew strongly through the 1980s, primarily for refrigeration and air conditioning but also for propellants and solvents. Since the end use of these materials is banned in most countries, this industry has shrunk dramatically. By the early 21st century, production of CFCs was less than 10% of the mid-1980s peak, with remaining use primarily as an intermediate for other chemicals. The banning of CFCs initially depressed the overall demand for fluorite but 21st century production of the source mineral has recovered to 1980s levels.\n\nHydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) now serve as replacements for CFC refrigerants; few were commercially manufactured before 1990. Currently more than 90% of fluorine used for organics goes into these two classes (in about equal amounts). Prominent HCFCs include R-22 (chlorodifluoromethane) and R-141b (1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane). The main HFC is R-134a (1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane).\n\nA bromofluoroalkane, \"Halon\" (bromotrifluoromethane) is still widely used in ship and aircraft gaseous fire suppression systems. Because Halon production has been banned since 1994, systems are dependent on the pre-ban stores and on recycling.\n\nA new type of Fluorine refrigerant, that is scoped to replace the high Global Warming Potential HFC compounds, are Hydrofluoroolefins (HFO).\n\nFluoropolymers are less than 0.1% of all polymers produced in terms of weight. Compared to other polymers, they are more expensive and their consumption is growing at a higher rate. As of about 2006–2007, estimates of the global fluoropolymer production varied from over 100,000 to 180,000 metric tons per year. Yearly revenue estimates ranged from over $2.5 billion to over $3.5 billion.\n\nPolytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is 60–80% of the world's fluoropolymer production on a weight basis. The term Teflon is sometimes used generically for the substance, but is a Chemours Company and Dupont brand name—other PTFE producers exist and Chemours sometimes uses the Teflon brand for other materials. PTFE gets its fluorine without the need for fluorine gas: chloroform (trichloromethane) is treated with HF to make chlorodifluoromethane (R-22, an HFC); this chemical when heated makes tetrafluoroethylene (abbreviated TFE), the monomer of PTFE.\n\nThe largest application for PTFE is in electrical insulation. It is an excellent dielectric and very chemically stable. It is also used extensively in the chemical process industry where corrosion resistance is needed: in coating pipes, in tubing, and gaskets. Another major use is architectural fabric (PTFE-coated fiberglass cloth used for stadium roofs and such). The major consumer application is non-stick cookware.\n\nWhen stretched with a jerk, a PTFE film makes a fine-pored membrane: expanded PTFE (ePTFE). The term \"Gore-Tex\" is sometimes used generically for this material, but that is a specific brand name. W.L. Gore & Associates is not the only producer of ePTFE and furthermore \"Gore-Tex\" often refers to more complicated multi-layer membranes or laminated fabrics. ePTFE is used in rainwear, protective apparel and liquids and gas filters. PTFE can also be formed into fibers which are used in pump packing seals and bag house filters for industries with corrosive exhausts.\n\nOther fluoropolymers tend to have similar properties to PTFE—high chemical resistance and good dielectric properties—which leads to use in the chemical process industry and electrical insulation. They are easier to work with (to form into complex shapes), but are more expensive than PTFE and have lower thermal stability. Fluorinated ethylene propylene (FEP) is the second most produced fluoropolymer. Films from two different fluoropolymers serve as glass-replacements in solar cells.\n\nFluorinated ionomers (polymers that include charged fragments) are expensive, chemically resistant materials used as membranes in certain electrochemical cells. Nafion, developed in the 1960s, was the first example and remains the most prominent material in the class. The initial Nafion application was as a fuel cell material in spacecraft. Since then, the material has been transforming the 55 million tons per year chloralkali industry; it is replacing hazardous mercury-based cells with membrane cells that are also more energy efficient. While older technology plants continue to run, new plants typically use membrane cells. By 2002, more than a third of the global capacity for the industry was membrane-cell based. Recently, the fuel cell application has reemerged; significant research is being conducted and investments made related to getting proton exchange membrane (PEM) fuel cells into vehicles.\n\nFluoroelastomers are rubber-like substances that are composed of crosslinked mixtures of fluoropolymers. Viton is a prominent example. Chemical-resistant O-rings are the primary application. Fluoroelastomers tend to be more stiff than conventional elastomers, but with superior chemical and heat resistance.\n\nFluorinated surfactants are small organofluorine molecules, principally used in durable water repellent (DWR). Fluorosurfactants form a large market, over $1 billion per year as of 2006. Scotchgard is a prominent brand, with over $300 million revenue in 2000. Fluorosurfactants are expensive chemicals, comparable to pharmaceutical chemicals: $200–2000 per kilogram ($90–900 per pound).\n\nFluorosurfactants make a very small part of the overall surfactant market, most of which is hydrocarbon based and much cheaper. Some potential applications (e.g. low cost paints) are unable to use fluorosurfactants because of the price impact of compounding in even small amounts of fluorosurfactant. Use in paints was only about $100 million as of 2006.\n\nDWR is a finish (very thin coating) put on fabrics that makes them lightly rain resistant, that makes water bead. First developed in the 1950s, fluorosurfactants were 90% of the DWR industry by 1990. DWR is used with garment fabrics, carpeting, and food packaging. DWR is applied to fabrics by \"dip-squeeze-dry\" (immersion in DWR-water bath, pressing water out, and then drying).\n\nFor countries with available data (free-market countries), about 17,000 metric tons of fluorine are produced per year by 11 companies, all G7-resident. Fluorine is relatively inexpensive, costing about $5–8 per kilogram ($2–4 per pound) when sold as uranium hexafluoride or sulfur hexafluoride. Because of difficulties in storage and handling, the price of pure fluorine gas is much higher. Processes demanding large amounts of fluorine gas generally vertically integrate and produce the gas onsite for direct use.\n\nThe largest application for elemental fluorine is the preparation of uranium hexafluoride, which is used in the production of nuclear fuels. To obtain the compound, uranium dioxide is first treated with hydrofluoric acid, to produce uranium tetrafluoride. This compound is then further fluorinated by direct exposure to fluorine gas to make the hexafluoride. Fluorine's monoisotopic natural occurrence makes it useful in uranium enrichment, because uranium hexafluoride molecules will differ in mass only because of mass differences between uranium-235 and uranium-238. These mass differences are used to separate uranium-235 and uranium-238 via diffusion and centrifugation. Up to 7,000 metric tons per year of fluorine gas are used for this application. As of 2013, 686,500 metric tons of UF6, containing about 470,000 metric tons of depleted uranium (the remainder being fluorine), were stored at the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant, the USEC's Piketon site, Ohio and the East Tennessee Technology Park (formerly known as the K-25 Site).\n\nThe second largest application for fluorine gas is sulfur hexafluoride, which is used as a dielectric medium in high voltage switching stations. SF gas has a much higher dielectric strength than air. It is extremely inert and, compared to oil-filled switchgear, has no hazardous polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). Sulfur hexafluoride is also used in soundproof windows, in the electronics industry, as well as niche medical and military applications. The compound can be made without using fluorine gas, but the reaction between pure sulfur and pure fluorine gas, first developed by Henri Moissan, remains the commercial practice. About 6,000 metric tons per year of fluorine gas are consumed.\n\nSeveral compounds made from elemental fluorine serve the electronics industry. Rhenium and tungsten hexafluorides are used for chemical vapor deposition of thin metal films onto semiconductors. Tetrafluoromethane, is used for plasma etching in semiconductor manufacturing, flat panel display production, and microelectromechanical systems fabrication. Nitrogen trifluoride is increasingly used for cleaning equipment at display manufacturing plants. Elemental fluorine, itself, is used sometimes for cleaning equipment.\n\nFor making niche organofluorines and fluorine-containing pharmaceuticals, direct fluorination is usually too hard to control. Preparation of intermediate strength fluorinators from fluorine gas solves this problem. The halogen fluorides ClF, BrF, and IF provide gentler fluorination, with a series of strengths. They are also easier to handle. Sulfur tetrafluoride is used particularly for making fluorinated pharmaceuticals.\n\nUnited States and Soviet space scientists in the early 1960s studied elemental fluorine as a possible rocket propellant because of the higher specific impulse generated when fluorine replaced oxygen in combustion. The experiments failed because fluorine proved difficult to handle, and its combustion product (typically hydrogen fluoride) was extremely toxic and corrosive.\n\nCommercial producers of fluorine gas continue to use the method of electrolysis pioneered by Moissan, with some modifications in the cell design. Owing to the gas's corrosiveness, special containment materials and handling precautions are required. Chemical routes to the elemental form were published in 1986.\n\nSeveral thousand metric tons of elemental fluorine are produced annually by electrolysis of potassium bifluoride in hydrogen fluoride. Potassium bifluoride forms spontaneously from potassium fluoride and the hydrogen fluoride:\n\nA mixture with the approximate composition KF•2HF melts at 70 °C (158 °F) and is electrolyzed between 70 °C and 130 °C (160–265 °F). Potassium bifluoride increases the electrical conductivity of the solution and provides the bifluoride anion, which releases fluorine at the anode (negative part of the cell). If HF alone is electrolyzed, hydrogen forms at the cathode (positive part of the cell) and the fluoride ions remain in solution. After electrolysis, potassium fluoride remains in solution.\n\nThe modern version of the process uses steel containers as cathodes, while blocks of carbon are used as anodes. The carbon electrodes are similar to those used in the electrolysis of aluminium. An earlier version of fluorine production process, by Moissan, uses platinum group metal electrodes and carved fluorite containers. The voltage for the electrolysis is between 8 and 12 volts.\n\nPure fluorine gas may be stored in steel cylinders where the inside surface is passivated by a metal fluoride layer that resists further attack. Passivated steel will withstand fluorine provided the temperature is kept below 200 °C (400 °F). Above that temperature, nickel is required. Regulator valves are made of nickel. Fluorine piping is generally made of nickel or Monel (nickel-copper alloy). Care must be taken to passivate all surfaces frequently and to exclude any water or greases. In the laboratory, fluorine gas can be used in glass tubing provided the pressure is low and moisture is excluded, although some sources recommend systems made of nickel, Monel, and PTFE.\n\nIn 1986, when preparing for a conference to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the discovery of fluorine, Karl O. Christe discovered a purely chemical preparation of fluorine gas; however, he stated in his work that the basics were known 50 years before the actual reaction. The main idea is that some metal fluoride anions do not have a neutral counterpart (or those are very unstable) and their acidifying would result in chemical oxidation, rather than formation of the expected molecules. Christe lists the following reactions as a possible way:\n\nThis synthetic route is a rare chemical preparation of elemental fluorine, a reaction not previously thought possible.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33665013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33665013", "title": "Francisco Uriburu", "text": "Francisco Uriburu\n\nFrancisco Uriburu (July 13, 1837 - February 10, 1906) was an Argentine businessman and politician, member of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies for Salta province from 1872 to 1876.\n"}
{"id": "16403515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16403515", "title": "Genesee Scientific", "text": "Genesee Scientific\n\nGenesee Scientific Corporation is a manufacturer and distributor of products to global life science research markets. With thousands of products available, its markets include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, colleges, universities and secondary education institutions, medical research institutions, hospitals and reference labs and quality control, process control and research and development laboratories.\n\n\nThe company has innovated the UPrep column used in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) purification. The idea behind the UPrep column, is that most, if not all, nucleic acid purification or clean-up kits come equipped with 10-15% more reagent volume than is actually needed for the number of columns the kit contains. This means that for a kit with 100 columns, you end up with enough reagent for another 10 to 15 preps after you run out of columns. Normally, this excess reagent is tossed out. UPrep columns allow you to use this extra reagent for additional preps.\n\nGenesee Scientific has also been responsible for developing Blue Devil autoradiography film which produces exceptional clarity and sharpness with extremely low backgrounds. Blue Devil Film is used for blotting, sequencing, chemiluminescent autoradiography (ecl) and gel shift analysis. It is designed for use with 14C, 35S, 32P, and 125I.\n\nGenesee Scientific is the world leader in innovation for and supply to the \"Drosophila\" (fruit fly) research community. \"Drosophila\" are widely used as a model organism in the field of genetics.\n\nGenesee Scientific has been awarded three patents by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for its revolutionary \"Drosophila\" vial racking system (patent numbers D673,296 S; 8,136,679 B2; and 8,430,251 B2). This \"Drosophila\" vial racking system significantly decreases time spent racking vials and is more environmentally friendly compared to traditional vial packaging configurations.\n\nGenesee Scientific has also developed the first atlas of \"Drosophila\" phenotypic markers available on mobile devices. Genesee the \"Drosophila\" App is a free tool providing researchers with a quick reference to various \"Drosophila\" phenotypes and is a valuable teaching tool for new \"Drosophila\" researchers.\n\n\n\n\"Following is a list of links to articles published in scientific journals that cite Genesee Scientific:\"\n"}
{"id": "57841466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57841466", "title": "Honey Ogundeyi", "text": "Honey Ogundeyi\n\nOyindamola Honey Ogundeyi is the founder of Fashpa.com, a Nigerian e-commerce site that designs and sells its products online and in store and also sells fashion and lifestyle brands from the international market to Nigerians. She launched an entrepreneurial vlog \"Side Hustle to Empire\" in 2017 where she gives tips on how she started and runs her business.\n\nShe started her secondary education at Queens College Yaba, Lagos and finished her secondary education in Alexandra College in Dublin, Ireland. She then proceeded to the University of Birmingham and graduated with a BSc in Public Policy and Management.\n\nOgundeyi was an associate with UBA Group from 2004 to 2006. She later worked for companies including McKinsey & Company, where she worked in consulting in Brussels and Johannesburg. After her spell with McKinsey & Company, she worked with Ericsson as Head of Brand Management for Sub-Saharan Africa and then proceeded to Google as an Industry Manager.\n\nOgundeyi launched Fashpa.com in April 2014. She founded the company after she was unable to get shoes she wanted from Balogun Market in Lagos Island, Nigeria.\n\nIn 2016, Ogundeyi was listed by the World Economic Forum as one of the top 10 innovators in Africa as well 10 most influential young Nigerians under 40 in Technology. In 2014, she was listed by Forbes as one of the Top 10 women emerging entrepreneurs to watch in Africa. She has also been recognised as a One Young World Ambassador representing Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "6324689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6324689", "title": "IQVIA", "text": "IQVIA\n\nIQVIA, formerly Quintiles and IMS Health, Inc., is an American multinational company serving the combined industries of health information technologies and clinical research. It is a provider of biopharmaceutical development and commercial outsourcing services, focused primarily on Phase I-IV clinical trials and associated laboratory and analytical services, including consulting services. They have a network of more than 50,000 employees in approximately 100 countries. As of 2017, IQVIA was reported to be one of the world’s largest contract research organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24455636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24455636", "title": "Ivan Rikard Ivanović", "text": "Ivan Rikard Ivanović\n\nDr. Ivan Rikard Ivanović (1880-1949) was a Croatian industrialist, politician and one of the founders of the Croatian National Progressive Party (NNS).\n\nIvan Rikard Mendel Kraus was born in 1880 in Osijek, Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, Austria-Hungary, the son of Bettina and Ivan Mendel Kraus. His father was the owner of a construction business in Osijek, and was responsible for erecting a number of buildings in his hometown, among which was the first steam-powered flour mill. When Ivan was a young boy his parents changed the family name to Ivanović and converted to Catholicism, along with many other Jews at the time.\n\nAfter completing his early studies his parents sent him to Vienna where he became a Doctor of Law. In 1905 he became one of the founders of the Croatian National Progressive Party (, NNS). In the Croatian parliamentary election, 1908, Ivanović was elected a member of the Croatian Parliament for the city of Osijek. In July 1912, he married Milica Popović, the youngest sister of Dr Dušan Popović, a leading Serb in Croatian political life. He was also elected in the Croatian parliamentary election, 1913.\n\nIn 1918, as a member of the National Assembly of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes he helped to form the state.\n\nIn 1929, Ivanović built an oil refinery in Osijek named \"IPOIL\". In 1936, he started building the first aluminum factory in the Balkans in the town of Lozovac near Šibenik, consulted by Elektrokemisk, now known as \"IVANAL\" d.d.\n\nDuring the Second World War he was arrested and imprisoned for three years. His first factory, IPOIL, was confiscated by the Independent State of Croatia. His second factory, IVANAL, was confiscated by the Italian occupying forces. In 1946, the Communists accused him of being a \"capitalist bourgeois\" and in a plotted political process, the Supreme Court of Croatia in Zagreb (case No. K-645/45 of 9 January) condemned both him and his wife and confiscated all the property of the company, including all the immovables and factory buildings. Ivanović was stripped of his civil rights and sent to a forced labor camp. After being released, he fled to Italy where he died in Genoa in 1949 aged 68.\n\nHe and Milica Popovic had three children together, Ivan, Daška and Vladimir. He had a third son named Dimitar with his second wife Jelka Muačević. In 1948, his third wife, Štefica Kastelic, gave birth to his fourth son, Marko, who became his legal successor.\n\nHis granddaughter is socialite Tessa Kennedy and his great-grandchildren include actor Cary Elwes and producer Cassian Elwes.\n\n"}
{"id": "17027621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17027621", "title": "John Clarence Drinkle", "text": "John Clarence Drinkle\n\nJohn Clarence Drinkle (born 1878 in Waverley, Ontario) was one of Saskatoon’s foremost boomtown entrepreneurs. He arrived in 1903 at age 25 with less than $500 and quickly made himself possibly the richest man in town.\n\nJohn Clarence Drinkle was born in Waverly, Ontario in 1878 where he received his early business training as a retail clerk. He moved to Winnipeg in 1898, where a disastrous business venture early in his career drained his capital and left him in debt. From 1901 to 1903 he worked as a salesman for Salada Tea Company to pay off his debts. At age 25 he teamed up with F.E. Kerr, a business school friend, and with a combined total capital of $500 they set off for Saskatoon, Saskatchewan to set up a real estate office.\n\nDuring Saskatoon’s first boom period everyone was speculating in real estate. The relatively poor were often made wealthy in a very short time - Drinkle may have been the most extreme example. He arrived in 1903 at age 25 with less than $500, when Saskatoon was a dirt street town of barely 500 people. Only ten years later it had a population of 28,000 and was described as \"the fastest growing city in the world\". By then Drinkle was a multi-millionaire and probably the richest man in town.\n\nDrinkle was married twice during his early Saskatoon years, then was married again in the 1940s. He is said to have spent so much time on business that he had limited time for family. One marriage reportedly ended with his wife returning home to New York after having had an affair with Drinkle’s chauffeur. Beginning in 1911 Drinkle and his wife, Jane Godden, lived primarily in London, England where they had four children. They travelled extensively, steaming around the world three times, and were reported to have lived in a very high style. It was during this time that Drinkle began selling many of his Saskatoon properties, including his mansion on Avenue A in 1912.\n\nDrinkle loved technology and was one of Saskatoon’s most innovative early leaders. He installed Saskatoon’s first automatic telephone system in 1907, one of the first on the continent. He started Saskatoon’s first modern steam laundry, and oversaw the \"largest and finest furniture store West of Winnipeg\". Drinkle has been credited with bringing the first car to Saskatoon, which he used to show real estate to prospective clients. He built the \"first substantial business block fit for a large metropolis\", complete with the first elevator, and built for himself a modern house described as \"one of the most beautiful homes in the entire province\". His company was one of the first to buy vast tracts of land on speculation for resale to farmers, and this was the early base of his fortune.\n\nDrinkle startled the community in 1906 when he commenced the erection of the first large brick office building in town. Saskatoon’s architecture at the time was humble, but Drinkle’s design was worthy of a large metropolis. It was designed by W.W. LaChance, Saskatoon’s first resident architect.\n\nThe building was completed in 1909, and was located on the Southwest corner of 2nd Avenue and 21st Street, which was the former site of his Great West Furniture Store. The four-storey concrete and brick structure had Saskatoon’s first lift elevator. It was called the \"mercantile mansion\" and the \"grandest building West of Winnipeg:. Drinkle moved his furniture store into the building as its first tenant, occupying . The top floor was used as the first home for the University of Saskatchewan for two years, before the campus was built. Students boasted that theirs was the only university in Canada with a lift elevator.\n\nDrinkle No. 1 was consumed by fire on January 24, 1925. It housed MacMillan Department Store at the time. The janitor, Thomas Simmons, nearly lost his life making a heroic effort to rescue his wife who perished in the blaze. He was rescued by fire chief John Faithfull after falling unconscious from the fumes. Two days later the last flames were extinguished, but the search for his wife’s body could not be resumed until the remaining walls were knocked down.\n\nCompleted in July, 1913, at the end of the boom period, Drinkle No. 2 was designed by Robert S. Byers and constructed by Frid-Lewis Contractors at a reported cost of $60,000. Over the years it housed many street level stores including: Colliers Music, Brown’s Delicatessen, Sherwin Williams, Meedwill Radio, National Cash Register, and The Crown and Anchor bar. Drinkle No. 2 caught fire on the night of May 19, 1986. When the fire department arrived flames were already coming through the roof and windows. Unable to get inside, the firefighters were limited to using equipment to prevent the fire from spreading to either the Saskatoon Credit Union or the Ross Block next to it to the south. No one was injured in the fire, but the businesses that occupied it lost their stock and were forced to relocate.\n\nKnown as Regent Plaza since 1976, Drinkle No. 3 was Drinkle’s most ambitious project. When the boom was in full stride, all eyes were on 3rd Avenue. The street was described as the site of \"probably the greatest development ever seen at one time on any street in Canada\". The city founders envisioned 3rd Avenue as Saskatoon’s greatest metropolitan street. Drinkle envisioned this building, then named Drinkle No. 3, as his greatest achievement and the tallest, finest building in the city. Ultimately, both visions were only half fulfilled. It was designed as a fireproof five story steel-reinforced concrete and brick office building, complete with high speed elevators and marble corridors trimmed with quarter-cut oak. In 1913, after five floors had been built, Drinkle announced his intention to add an additional five floors, making it the tallest building in Saskatoon. Its architects intended the façade of the top two floors to be treated with decorative terra cotta to draw one’s eye to the grand cornice. Drinkle planned a rooftop garden similar to one he had admired in a Vancouver building. The projected cost of the ten story structure was $450,000. The construction of the additional five floors was delayed in the winter of 1913, reportedly due to a shortage of steel. The onset of \"the bust\" eventually put a stop to construction and the remaining five floors, cornice, decorative terra cotta, and the marble lined corridors were never built. The building was never used for offices and was converted to residential use in 1919.\n\nIn 1923 Drinkle 3 was expanded to approximately 100 suites, and then was remodeled in the 1980s to have 60. Commercial tenants through the years have included Buckwold’s, General Motors, Firestone, Gassy Jax, The Gazebo, Custom Stereo, Macho, The Partnership, Lucci’s, Sardi’s, Muffin Break, Lee’s Vietnamese, Tarragon, and The Publican. In 1977 the building nearly burned when a fire at Gassy Jax caused $400,000 damage, killing palms and canaries housed in the store.\n\nDrinkle continued at least two entrepreneurial endeavors in Saskatoon in the years after the bust, but neither were successful. Perhaps his temperament was ill-suited for the post-war business and political climate, which was so different from the exuberance of the boom years. Although Drinkle lost his Saskatoon assets to receivership, he seems to have preserved some of his wealth, possibly due to his having liquidated many of his properties starting two years before the bust. He is reported to have lived in an extravagant lifestyle in London for ten years after the bust. It is unclear what his activities in London were during that time, but in 1920 he and his family returned to Saskatoon broke and ready to start over. He took over the Saskatoon Pure Milk Company, with the support of his brother William, and adapted its operation to conform with new pasteurization regulations. However, this business went into receivership in 1926, and led to a falling out with his brother. It appears that Drinkle left Saskatoon not long after and did not return until about 1939 when he established the Drinkle Canning and Preserving Company at 215 22nd St W, near the site of his original laundry. This company operated in relative obscurity until the early 1940s when he married his third wife, Loretta Rose, and moved to Ottawa. With the help of his wife, he managed to secure a military contract to provide marmalade to Canadian forces during WWII. He was unable to source ingredients during wartime and reportedly had to adapt by making marmalade from cabbage. He was still making commercial jams, from the basement of his home in Ottawa, when he died at age 73.\n\nDrinkle died in his home in 1951 and his remains were interred at Waverly Ontario, his childhood home. His body arrived there by train, unbeknownst to his remaining distant relatives, who were required to pay the freight before collecting the remains. Today a large monument marks his grave.\n\n"}
{"id": "28180745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180745", "title": "Labor market area", "text": "Labor market area\n\nA labor market area is a geographic area or region defined for purposes of compiling, reporting, and evaluating employment, unemployment, workforce availability, and related topics. It can be defined as an economically integrated region within which residents can find jobs within a reasonable commuting distance or can change their employment without changing their place of residence. \n\nCommuting flows are a primary consideration in defining and delineating labor market areas. The extent to which workers are willing and able to commute between two places indicates the degree of economic integration between those places.\n\nIn the United States, the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) maintains standard definitions of labor market areas for the purpose of standardization and to promote comparability of the labor force information used by various government programs. Definitions are updated annually, and the entire system of definitions is reevaluated once each decade based on decennial census data. BLS uses metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, including metropolitan divisions, as its principal basis for defining labor market areas. In New England, labor market area definitions are based on New England city and town areas rather than the county-based statistical areas used in other parts of the country. For geographic areas outside of metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas, the BLS identifies labor market areas based primarily on commuting data, with a requirement that all components of a labor market area be contiguous.\n\n"}
{"id": "54924500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54924500", "title": "Lawrence Valenstein", "text": "Lawrence Valenstein\n\nLawrence Valenstein (1899-1982) was an American advertising executive who founded the Grey Advertising Agency.\n\nValenstein was born to a Jewish family in 1899. On August 1, 1917, at the age of 18, Valenstein borrowed $100 and started his own company located at 309 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. He named the company the Grey Agency because the walls of the office were grey. The company's original focus was to publish direct mailings for the furrier industry which morphed into a magazine named \"Furs and Fashions\". In 1925, the firm, renamed the Grey Advertising Agency, became a full-fledged advertising agency and differentiated itself from its competitors by using a team approach to advertising that closely worked with its customers and conducted extensive marketing research. Valenstein focused on developing a brand through pre-selling and building a market for it. In the 1930s the firm focused on soft goods. In the 1940s, the firm was billing $1 million per year. In 1947, after winning Gruen watch account, billings reached $10 million. In 1955, after winning the Block Drug account, Grey's billings reached $30 million. In 1956, Valenstein became chairman of the board and Arthur C. Fatt (hired in 1921 at the age of seventeen) became president. In 1957, Grey developed the widely successful \"Leaving now for Trenton, Philadelphia and Cucamonga!\" campaign for Greyhound Bus with the tagline \"Go Greyhound and leave the driving to us.\"\n\nIn 1961, billings reached $59 million and Valenstein became chairman of the executive committee; Fatt was named chairman and Herbert D. Strauss its president. In 1961, the firm expanded by opening an office in Los Angeles; and he expanded internationally by opening offices in London in 1962 and Japan in 1963. In 1964, billings reached $100 million. In 1965, the firm went public trading on the Nasdaq exchange and the firm also expanded into the use of psychographics (the analysis of consumer lifestyles). In 1965, Valenstein retired and was named founder/chairman.\n\nValenstein and fellow Jews, Albert D. Lasker and Milton H. Biow, are widely credited with opening the advertising industry to a new generation of Jewish advertising professionals including: Arthur C. Fatt, Herbert D. Strauss, William Bernbach, Norman B. Norman, Maxwell Dane, Julian Koenig, Frederic S. Papert, Maxwell B. Sackheim; David R. Altman, Ernest Dichter, Stanley Arnold, and Monroe Green.\n\nValenstein was married to Alice Starr; they had two children: John Valenstein; and Linda Valenstein Elkind. In 1959, his daughter married engineer Jerome I. Elkind in a Jewish ceremony in Scarsdale. In 1971, his son married Karen Wishnew who was one of the first women to become an investment banker.\n"}
{"id": "32468627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32468627", "title": "Lebanese Association of Certified Public Accountants", "text": "Lebanese Association of Certified Public Accountants\n\nThe Lebanese Association of Certified Public Accountants (LACPA), in the Republic of Lebanon, was created by the Accountancy Profession Act No. 364/1994 to become the sole organization in Lebanon representing more than 1710 members of the CPA profession as of May 2011. LACPA is an active member of (IFAC) International Federation of Accountants, (FIDEF) Federation Internationale des Experts-Comptables Francophone and (AFAA) Arab Federation for Accountants and Auditors a federation of the Joint Arab Economic Action Charter of the Arab League.\n\nLACPA and through its acting Committees formed by a Council of 10 professionals elected every 2 years, establishes national standards on ethics, auditing, accounting education and accounting practices. It also issues guidance to encourage high quality performance by professional accountants.\n\nLACPA Council is composed of 10 members headed by the chairman elected every 2 years. Council Chairpersons since 1994 were: Mouaffaq Yafi, George Abu Mansour, Farid Gebran, Hikmat Sleem, Antoine Gholam, Gebran Barghoud, Gina Chammas, Amin Saleh, Elie Abboud, Selim Abdel Baki & Sarkis Sakr. \n\nLACPA administrative and technical body is headed by a Secretary General. Secretary generals since 1994: Claude Boustany, David Kazzi, Fares Aboujaoude & Nadine Aoun.\n\n"}
{"id": "42064948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42064948", "title": "Lessor (leasing)", "text": "Lessor (leasing)\n\nLessor is a participant of the lease who takes possession of the property and provides it as a leasing subject to the lessee for temporary possession. For example, in leasehold estate, the landlord is the lessor and the tenant is the lessee. The lessor may be the owner of the property or an agent authorized on the owner's behalf. Commercial banks, credit non-bank organizations, leasing companies often act as lessors.\n\nA lessor can be both legal entity and individual. Nevertheless, the term “leasing company” sometimes is used as a synonym to the term “lessor”.\n\nThe Seller of the property and the lessor can be one and the same person.\n\nThe process of interaction of the lessor with other participants of the Leasing Contract is as follows:\n\nFor the whole time period of the Leasing Contract the property is in the ownership of the lessor.\nIn case of failure of reimbursements of lease payments under the schedule specified in the contract the lessor has the right to exempt the property from the Lessee. In case of bankruptcy of the Lessee the lessor has the priority right for payments.\n\nIf the lessor contrary to the contract has interfered with the choice of the seller or leasing subject, he bears the responsibility for non-delivery of the equipment, personal injury of citizens while using the leasing subject, damage which is caused to the property of the Lessee and the third Parties. There are however exceptions from this norm.\n\nIn case of implementation of a high-priced project the lessor may involve into the transaction additional sources of financial assets (through banks, insurance companies, investment funds, etc.).\n\nOfficial leasing provider (dealer) is a special type of lessor. This is the official supplier of specialized machinery, transport and equipment directly to the final consumer or through a leasing company. Official leasing operator cooperates with manufacturers (subsidiary offices) of prime machinery under the operator (dealer) agreement.\n\nFor the leasing company the official leasing operator acts as:\n\nFor consumers, the official leasing operator acts as: \n\nRights and obligations of the lessor in the Russian Federation are regulated by the contract, under the Federal Law “On financial rent (leasing)”, the Tax Code of the Russian Federation, the Civil Code, and others, in Ukraine – by the Law “On Financial Leasing” and many others, in Uzbekistan – by Chapter 34 of the Civil Code of Uzbekistan and others. International leasing contracts are regulated under the UNIDROIT Convention on International Financial Leasing.\n\n"}
{"id": "10475347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10475347", "title": "Lightning Source", "text": "Lightning Source\n\nLightning Source is a business unit of Ingram Content Group. The company is a printer and distributor of print-on-demand books. Originally incorporated in 1996 as Lightning Print Inc., the company is headquartered in La Vergne, Tennessee. Its UK operations are based in Milton Keynes. They also have operations in Maurepas, France and Melbourne, Australia.\n\nIngramSpark is a service operated by Lightning Source to cater for the needs of independent publishers and authors. Since it launched in 2013, IngramSpark has registered more than 7 million books, with 4,000 new books added each day. \n\nThe Espresso Book Machine 2.0 is a compact ( wide by deep by high) book-printing kiosk that can be installed in a bookshop or public place to print, bind and cut books on demand while the customer waits. The EBM 2.0 can download encrypted book files from Lightning Source (LS). Publishers must specifically give permission in order for their titles to be included in the scheme.\n\nThe EBM project can theoretically allow faster access to LS print-on-demand books in regions where there is no existing LS plant, and where shipping times would otherwise create significant supply delays. It also allows large bookshops to offer their customers almost immediate access to a wider range of titles than could be held onsite. However, to date, uptake of the Espresso Book Machine system has been low.\n\nLightning Source has an e-book supply system that can serve up protected PDF copies of books from their library through a vendor's site, if a publisher chooses to participate.\n\nAlthough the scheme originally allowed electronic LS editions to be sold on Amazon alongside \"conventional\" print-on-demand editions, Amazon withdrew from the scheme. Lightning Source still offer their e-book on demand service to publishers who have a suitable vendor website, and supply eBooks to their retail partners Powells.com, Ebookmall.com, Diesel-ebooks.com, Fictionwise.com, Booksonboard.com and eBooksAboutEverything.com, but have no online retail outlet themselves to sell eBooks.\n\nIn March 2010 Ingram Digital (a wholesaler part of the same group) warned its customers it might not be able to sell them e-books, as most large publishers were moving from the wholesale model (publishers offer wholesale discounts, and the final price is determined by retailers) to the agency model (publishers set the retail price and offer agents a commission, so retailers earn more by buying direct from the publisher rather than via a wholesaler). This was triggered by the eBook pricing dispute between Amazon and Macmillan, and the imminent launch of the iPad. However, in April 2012 the U.S. Department of Justice sued Apple, Macmillan, and others on the basis that the agency model was anti-competitive and a form of collusion used to fix the price of e-books. As of April 2012, Ingram Digital was still supplying e-books via its CoreSource programme.\n"}
{"id": "40063514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40063514", "title": "Maxim Demin", "text": "Maxim Demin\n\nMaxim Victorovich Demin, born October 1969, is a Russian businessman. In 2011, Demin became co-owner of then Football League side A.F.C. Bournemouth with Eddie Mitchell, reportedly paying £850,000 for his share of the club. Subsequently in 2015 the club were promoted to the Premier League. In 2015, he sold a 25% share in the club to Peak 6 Investments, although he remains the majority shareholder.\n\nDemin has been involved in the petrochemicals industry and as a trader.\n\nDemin spent £5 million on a mansion in Sandbanks (Dorset), which he then demolished and employed Eddie Mitchell to rebuild a state of the art house.\n"}
{"id": "14135848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14135848", "title": "Methodological advisor", "text": "Methodological advisor\n\nA methodological advisor or consultant provides methodological and statistical advice and guidance to clients interested in making decisions regarding the design of studies, the collection and analysis of data, and the presentation and dissemination of research findings. Trained in both methods and statistics and communication skills, advisors may work in academia, industry, or the public sector.\n\nMethodological advisors generally have post-graduate training in statistics, as well as relevant practical experience. In addition, advisors may also have significant education and experience in the particular field they work in. Some universities offer specific graduate programmes in fields such as biostatistics, psychological methods, or methodology and statistics for the medical, behavioural, and social sciences.\n\nMethodological consultants primarily find work in academia and industry. In the private sector, consultants may be part of an organisation, employed by a consultancy firm, or self-employed. Many universities offer in-house methodological advice for researchers, as well as, in some cases, services for outside clients. The advisors may also be researchers of their own right and be deeply involved with particular projects. Project statisticians, in particular, are embedded with research groups and often developed a deep understanding not just of statistics, but also of the research topics themselves. In contrast, independent advisors are often only consulted on specific questions, and may be less involved with the project as a whole.\n\nDisciplines in which methodological advice is sought stretch the entire width of the quantitative sciences, but may in particular include the medical sciences, biology, psychological research, and business studies. Advisors are also consulted in public administration, where they may be involved at all levels of governance. In the legal system, consultants may be called upon as expert witnesses, in particular in cases that involve statistical considerations.\n\nThe role of a methodological advisors varies from project to project, but can include any point in the research cycle. While \"cross-sectional consulting\" may only occur at one point during a project, \"longitudinal consulting\" may mean that the advisor stays with the project from beginning to end. Hence, advice is not limited to statistical questions. Broadly speaking, questions may concern the design of studies, choice or construction of measurement instruments, analysis of data, and presentation of results. In particular, common questions include:\n\n\nGiving methodological advice can mean answering specific questions or performing mundane data analyses, but may often go beyond that. In particular when clients have little understanding of research methods and statistics, consultants may have to clarify substantive questions and to translate them into methodological and statistical procedures. In private companies, the form of consultancy does not necessarily depend on the understanding of the client. Different companies may offer different forms of consulting, ranging from providing a quick fix for specific problems, provide extensive explanations to the client or even running the whole analyses.\n\nIn some cases, this may also entail profound ethical considerations. The client's occupation may form a constraint for the form in which consultancy can be offered. For example, running data-analyses for companies may not be a problem, where doing this for a bachelors or masters student can be considered fraud.\n\nAlthough statisticians were traditionally trained largely on a technical skill set, recent times have brought a realisation that advisors need to be proficient in communication, teamwork, and problem-solving skills just as well as in methodological questions. As such, they have to be able to elicit explanations from clients and to give clear explanations of methods and statistics themselves. Because in some cases the implications of methodological advice may be profound (e.g., it may not be possible to conduct certain experiments, or to gain certain insights from data already collected), consultants also have to be able to communicate such ramifications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27245025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27245025", "title": "Michael Fingleton", "text": "Michael Fingleton\n\nMichael Fingleton is a former chief executive of Irish Nationwide Building Society. He joined the building society in 1971 and retired in April 2009 as the effects of the 2008–2012 Irish banking crisis became apparent. He is known as \"Fingers\" in the banking community.\n\nMichael Fingleton was born in Tubbercurry, Co. Sligo in 1938, the son of a local Garda. He attended St Nathy's school in Ballaghaderreen, and in later years UCD, TCD and Kings Inns. He attended a seminary, but quit before taking his vows.\n\nIn the early Sixties, he joined Allied Irish Finance and simultaneously began studying commerce. On earning his degree, he went to the Dairy Disposal Agency, a state body that took over defunct creameries in the west of Ireland. During this period, he studied at night to become a chartered accountant.\n\nFollowing this, he joined aid agency Concern and from 1969 he spent a number of years organising food supplies to the Republic of Biafra, the short-lived secessionist state in southeastern Nigeria. He eventually became chairman of Concern.\n\nIn 1971, he became the secretary of the Irish Independent Building Society, founded in 1873. At the time he was not a homeowner. The building society had five employees and assets of €2 million. In his first year at the helm, the company made a profit of just €12,000 and Fingleton had to wait three years for his first company car.\n\nIn 1973 he was called to the bar, the same year that Dick Spring, Michael McDowell and Adrian Hardiman were also called, although he never practised as a barrister.\n\nThe building society changed its name to Irish Nationwide in 1975 and began to expand. The key to its expansion was marketing, using the media to build the profile of the business. The emphasis was on the use of agents rather than opening branches. Fingleton built it up into a network of 50 branches and 40 branch agents, helped by the takeover of the Garda Building Society, Irish Mutual and Metropolitan Building Society and enacted a flexible mortgage policy in the 1980s. Fingleton cultivated relationships with the press and benefitted by receiving free publicity. Many journalists in the 1980s received mortgages from the Irish Nationwide. Fingleton always stressed that these were all above board. During the 1980s, when he was at the height of his media profile, he sent journalists a Christmas card portraying himself as Santa Claus.\n\nFingleton drew a salary of €1.3m in 2005, including a €500,000 bonus making his earnings on a par with chief executives of the larger banks. He began to look for demutualisation legislation in 2001 with the change in the law coming through in August 2006. In 2007, after failed talks with Germany's HypoVereinsbank and GE Money, he almost sold the building society to Iceland's Landsbanki. Fingleton set Irish Nationwide's asset value close to €1.3 billion to reflect the equity he expected to be released from any deals. Fingleton expected to earn up to €15 million from the deal. Landsbanki who were initially attracted by Irish Nationwide's deposit book, backed off, unnerved by the level of the society's commercial lending. The Icelandic bank collapsed nine months later.\n\nFingleton had a reputation as an autocrat and effectively ran a one-man lending department with loans of over €500,000 being personally approved by him. In 2002 it emerged that he had an affair with a subordinate who was provided with a £200,000 settlement after she took her case to the Employment Appeals Tribunal. When Irish Nationwides home loans manager Brian Fitzgibbon sued to stop the building society from sacking him in 2007, it reinforced the impression that Fingleton totally dominated the institution. In his evidence, Fitzgibbon alleged that Fingleton over-ruled his decision not to lend money to rogue solicitors Micheal Lynn and Thomas Byrne to whom the building society loaned over €10m each. Fitzgibbon went on to allege that the Nationwide's lending decisions \"were entirely informal and controlled by Michael Fingleton\". Fitzgibbon also stated that many loans issued by the Irish Nationwide had not been approved by its credit committee, which existed only to satisfy the requirements of the Central Bank of Ireland. Fingleton said the society took \"adequate provisions\" in 2007 for loans to the rogue solicitors as it booked a total loan loss charge of €48.8m.\n\nBy the end of 2007, Irish Nationwide had become a major financial institution with pre-tax profits of €390m for 2006 and gross assets of €16.1bn. He had managed to bring the group's cost-to-income ratio down to 10pc from 14.4pc the previous year. The same year, Fingleton transferred a €27.6m pension fund from the society.\n\nAs well as arranging loans for journalists, Fingleton arranged loans for other political and public figures. In December 2009, after interviewing Olivia Greene, a former home loans supervisor at Irish Nationwide, Prime Time reported that former Minister for Finance Charlie McCreevy was loaned €1.6m for a €1.5m property by Irish Nationwide, when the building society wasn't supposed to be providing 100 per cent loans. He also provided a loan for Celia Larkin, the ex-partner of former taoiseach Bertie Ahern, without requiring any proof of income. John Mara, the son of former Fianna Fáil director of elections PJ Mara, was also named in court as having drawn down big loans, including a €1.5 million loan for which Fingleton did not seek any additional security.\n\nGreene also said current Fianna Fáil Senator Francis O'Brien and former FF Senator Don Lydon were given fast-track loans of €7m and €3m\n\nThe performance of the building society crashed in 2008 as bad loans spiralled. Irish Nationwide made a pretax loss of €280 million for the year, after writing off €464 million on bad loans, a 10-fold increase on the 2007 figure. The state was eventually forced to inject €2.7 billion into the society to shore up its balance sheet and prevent the collapse of a government-guaranteed institution.\n\nIn the run-up to the 2008 annual board meeting, with Fingleton approaching 70, when he would be required to retire as a director, the board considered tabling a motion that would permit him to stay on for another two years. The idea was abandoned and Fingleton refused to stay on as the chief executive unless he was paid the same amount as in 2007, when he had received a €1m bonus. At the end of April 2009, Fingleton retired, buffeted by criticism for receiving the €1m \"bonus\" in 2008. He left Irish Nationwide relying on the continued support of the Irish government through the guarantee scheme to raise funding from bond investors to keep the institution in business. Losses from 2009 of €2.5bn effectively wiped out all profits made by the society since its inception as Irish Nationwide. Fingleton received €221k in pay for the final four months of his employment, up to April 2009. This amount, calculated on an annual basis, exceeded the cap of €500k imposed by the Government for top bankers.\n\nAs the depth of the society's problems became apparent, Fingleton came under public and political pressure to return the €1m bonus. In April 2010 he offered to give it to charity, but this proposal was rejected by the Irish government. As of December 2010 there was no evidence that the money had been returned.\n\nMichael Fingleton is married to his wife, Eileen. They live in Shankill in South Dublin. He enjoys horse racing and frequently attends racing festivals. They have four children. Their son, Michael Fingleton jnr, is a former employee of Irish Nationwide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46523974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46523974", "title": "Milan Platovsky", "text": "Milan Platovsky\n\nMilan Platovsky Stein (1922 – 2012) was a Czech-Chilean businessman and a Holocaust survivor.\n\nHe was born into a Jewish family in Prague. His father was a businessman while his mother was a woman of senior Czech bourgeoisie. He lived a carefree childhood. At age 17, in the middle of systematic harassment suffered as a result of Nazi policies, he was subjected to forced labour and various humiliations. Already underway World War II, he was taken to various units of extermination, such as Auschwitz and Sachsenhausen. This experience, like others of his life, would make public in texts, most notably \"Sobrevivir: Memorias de un resiliente\", 1997.\n\nHe arrived in Chile from France in 1950, escaping from communism, which was gaining ground in Europe.\n"}
{"id": "24360998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24360998", "title": "Notional profit", "text": "Notional profit\n\nNotional Profit\n\nA contract usually takes several years to get itself completed. If the profit on such contracts is recorded only after their completion, then wide fluctuations may be noted in the profit figures of contractors from year to year. To avoid these fluctuations in the reported profits and to reflect the revenue in the accounting period during which the activity is undertaken, the profit in respect of each contract in progress is transferred to the profit and loss account of the year by calculating the notional profit. The portion of notional profit to be transferred to the profit and loss account depends on the stage of completion of a contract.\n\nNotional profit = work in progress - cost incurred to date\n"}
{"id": "17572634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17572634", "title": "Patents Court", "text": "Patents Court\n\nThe Patents Court is a specialist court within the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales. It deals with disputes relating to intellectual property, including patents and registered designs. It also hears appeals against decisions of the Comptroller General of Patents.\nIf a case is deemed suitable to be heard at county court level, it can be heard in the Central London County Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "3763158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3763158", "title": "Port of Decatur", "text": "Port of Decatur\n\nThe Port of Decatur is a transshipment port on the Tennessee River, in the city of Decatur, Alabama, United States of America. The port was founded in 1971.\n\nPort facilities include intermodal transfer points for switches between barge, road and rail, storage facilities for bulk liquids, dry bulk and general cargo and of open storage. Serviceable quay length is , with a year-round draft of nine metres.\n\nThe port is directly connected to the Norfolk Southern and CSX railroads and to interstate and regional highway networks.\n\nPort throughput is dominated by imports of industrial and agricultural commodities including sand, asphalt, grains and fertilizers, coal, and steel piping. From 2005 the port also began handling poultry feed products for nationwide poultry firm Golden Kist. \n\nExports are limited by the cost-efficiency of road and rail distribution networks, forcing many barges accessing the port to return empty. Shipping times to New Orleans are approximately two weeks from loading.\n\n"}
{"id": "16080060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16080060", "title": "Raja Pervaiz Ashraf", "text": "Raja Pervaiz Ashraf\n\nRaja Pervaiz Ashraf (; born 26 December 1950), is a businessman, agriculturist, and politician who served as 19th Prime Minister of Pakistan from 22 June 2012 until completing his designated term on 16 March 2013. He currently resides in Sanghar House,Gujar Khan.\n\nPrior to be elevated as Prime minister, he previously served as the Minister for Water and Power in the Yousaf Raza Gillani-led government from March 2008 to February 2011. A senior-ranking leader in the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) from Rawalpindi District, Ashraf assumed premiership on 22 June 2012 after Yousaf Raza Gillani was disqualified over contempt of court charges. Shortlisted by the PPP as a candidate for the post, he was eventually elected based on a 211–89 vote in the National Assembly. Tackling the corruption scandals, one of the major achievements during his premiership was his interest to develop and implement hydro projects in particular Neelum-Jhelum project of 970 MW.\n\nThe project had received a big jolt when the Chinese Exim Bank refused to release $448 million loan linking it to the restoration of the Safe City Project in Islamabad which has been stopped by the Supreme Court of Pakistan. During his tenure Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) had launched a number of mega and medium-sized projects in Gilgit–Baltistan.\n\nRaja Pervaiz Ashraf was born on 26 December 1950 in Sanghar, interior Sindh. He graduated from the University of Sindh in 1970 and was involved in agriculture before entering politics. He is married to Nusrat Pervaiz Ashraf and has four children, which include two sons and two daughters. Ashraf belongs to the Minhas clan of Pakhral and is originally from Gujar Khan, an industrial town in the Rawalpindi District of the Potohar region in northern Punjab. The Potohar region is home to numerous prominent political and military personalities. Ashraf comes from a middle class Potohari-speaking family of landowners who have had a traditional background in politics. An uncle of his served as a minister in the cabinet of Ayub Khan during the 1960s. His parents owned agricultural land in the town of Sanghar in Sindh, where he was Born and brought up. Ashraf is multilingual and can fluently speak English, Urdu, Punjabi and Potwari and Sindhi.\n\nHe is regarded as an important PPP loyalist and leader in the Rawalpindi region. He contested parliamentary elections in 1990, 1993 and 1997. He won in elections held in 2002 and then in 2008, following which he was appointed as federal minister for water, and as power minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani.\nAshraf has been twice elected Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan (MNA) from his constituency of Gujar Khan, Rawalpindi District. He won re-election in the February 2008 elections. During his time as an MNA, he served as a member of the Standing Committee on Kashmir and the Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Human Rights. Before his ascendance to the post of prime minister, he was also the secretary general of the PPP.\n\nHe became the head of the Water and Power Ministry in the coalition government of PPP, PML-N, ANP, JUI-F and MQM formed after the 2008 elections. During his tenure as power minister, there was a chronic shortage of electricity generation throughout the country and power cuts (load shedding) remained frequent. In the position, he faced heavy criticism for repeatedly promising the country's power crisis would be over \"by 2008\" as the country suffered regular blackouts. He became one of the most sought after ministers in the National Assembly, by legislators who demanded answers for the power crisis.\nAccording to a report on his parliamentary performance, the water and power ministry while Ashraf was in-charge received as many as 1,147 official questions and queries, of which only 60% were responded to.\n\nThe report opined that Ashraf's performance as minister was \"tainted by failures to overcome the power shortfall that continued to aggravate even after he was replaced\" and that his actions and responses both inside and outside the National Assembly had \"not been translated into actions\" Nevertheless, about 3,570 megawatts of power was added to the national grid during the PPP government, a major portion of which came during Ashraf's term in office. His term is said to have overseen relatively more megawatts being added to the national grid when compared to other ministers of power and energy since Benazir Bhutto's last government. He was accused of receiving kickbacks in the rental power projects, and of using illegal money to buy foreign property. Ashraf denied the charges, and as of June 2012, was defending himself before the Supreme Court. No official charges have been framed against him as no evidence could be presented so far.\n\nOne of the main reasons for power crisis, which have never received due attention and focus is the circular debt and which continued to increase over the years. The government has time and again tried to clear the circular debt, however it comes again. This is because of the structural issues including power theft, poor recovery from other government departments, difference between cost of generation and actual cost charged to customer. During Ashraf`s government prioritised hydro power projects in particular Neelum Jhelum 970 MW. During his term, WAPDA initiated several hydro projects in Gilgit Baltistan (GB) including the Satpara Dam having 17 MW power generation capacity and 0.093 million acre feetwater storage capacity and Diamer-Bhasha Dam having 4,500 MW power generation capacity and 8.1 million acre feet water storage capacity, along with hydropower projects of 7,100 MW Bunji, 34 MW Harpo, 80 MW Phandar and 40 MW Basho.\n\nHydro power is the cheapest energy source and as Minister and PM he gave special attention, however hydro power projects take long time to complete and the electricity from the projects will be available after 10 years. In order to resolve short term energy crisis, Ashraf implemented power project on rental basis, following the rental policy approved in Mushrrafs tenure. However the projects became controversial.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani was convicted of being in contempt of court for refusing to bring charges against President Asif Ali Zardari. On 19 June 2012, Gillani was retroactively ruled ineligible to hold the office by the Supreme Court. The ruling Pakistan People's Party nominated textile minister Makhdoom Shahabuddin to replace Gillani, but the nomination failed when the Anti-Narcotics Force issued a warrant for Shahabuddin's arrest on drug charges. Ashraf was then selected as the party's next option.\n\nOn 22 June 2012, Raja Pervez Ashraf was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan by a 211–89 vote. Ashraf and his cabinet were sworn in on the same day. His selection as Prime Minister restored the country's government after several days of turmoil where officially the country was without a government. The Associated Press said Ashraf's election was \"unlikely to calm the tensions roiling the country\" and noted that many observers expected him be eventually be ousted like his predecessor. Political analyst Raza Rumi said Ashraf was likely chosen by the PPP because they knew he would not last long. On 24 July 2012, the Government informed the Supreme Court, one day before expiry of the court's deadline, that it has not taken a decision on reopening of the graft cases against President Zardari.\n\nImmediately after his election, Ashraf said that the economy, inflation, and the country's power crisis would be his top concerns. \"Our country cannot afford politics of confrontation at this time,\" he said. Within 24 hours of being elected, Ashraf held a meeting to resolve the energy crisis in the country and directed the Ministry of Petroleum to ensure the supply of 28,000 tonnes of fuel daily to power plants, so as to add 1200 mega watts to the national grid system. There were power protests erupting throughout the country for continual load shedding. The Pakistan Economy Watch (PEW) was critical of this renewed focus on energy, calling it a \"useless effort\" with the president of PEW, Murtaza Mughal, remarking that load shedding had only \"increased in the harrowing summer\", making life difficult for the ordinary citizen; Mughal further noted that the announcement of adding more fuel into independent power producers had been portrayed positively, despite the fact that the actual problem did not lie in scarcity of fuel but rather in non-payment of dues. Businesspeople and economists in Pakistan had a mixed response to Ashraf's appointment; while some appreciated the prime minister's focus on the energy crisis and hoped for greater cooperation between key institutions and political parties as being good for economic stability, others questioned his reputation related to rental power and expressed anxiety over the government's ongoing clash with the judiciary which could cause uncertainty and scare businesses away. A government official praised the smooth transition of power and said that the country's economic policy would stay the same, adding that the government's economic team will carry on with implementing the budget and other economic functions as present before Gillani's disqualification.\n\nAs an initiative to overcome the energy crises, Ashraf announced his intention to build several small dams across the country. He said that these projects would start from his native Potohar plateau, as part of a development programme for the Potohar region. Apart from energy, he identified the deteriorating law and order situation of Karachi, especially with regards to target killings, as a second major challenge.\n\nIn September 2012, during his maiden trip to Gilgit-Baltistan, Ashraf announced a Rs. 2 billion development package for the region.\n\nOn 12 July 2012, The Supreme Court in its NRO implementation case order has ruled that Prime Minister Raja Pervaiz Ashraf must write the letter to Swiss authorities to reopen graft cases against President Asif Ali Zardari.\n\nOn 25 July 2012, The Supreme Court gave Raja Pervaiz Ashraf to 8 August 2012 to implement its order by writing a letter to Swiss authorities to reopen graft cases against President Asif Ali Zradari.\n\nOn 8 August 2012, the supreme court adjourned the hearing till 18 September 2012\n\nThree days after his election, Ashraf visited Nine Zero and met with leaders of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement in Karachi. He also visited the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (F). The visits were seen as part of a fresh move to reaffirm ties with coalition political parties.\nThe first significant milestone Ashraf performed after taking charge of his office was an approval for the creation of a post of Deputy Prime Minister of Pakistan to fulfill a demand of the coalition party Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q). The post was inaugurated on 25 June and Chaudhry Pervez Elahi of PML-Q was appointed as the first deputy prime minister of the country. However, the position is largely symbolic and has no legal constitutional duties.\n\nOn 27 June 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan gave prime minister Ashraf two weeks to indicate whether he would ask Swiss authorities to reopen corruption cases against president Zardari. However, Ashraf stated that his position on the issue was no different from that of previous prime minister Gillani. In the first week of July, he directed attention on the Balochistan conflict and called for a high-level meeting to discuss the issue of missing persons in the province. In the first week of July, Ashraf announced the government's plans to establish legislation which would remove the bar on dual nationality holders from contesting in elections. If passed, the legislation would enable Overseas Pakistanis holding dual nationalities eligible to participate in elections and hold public office. The enforcement of such a legislation remains a controversial issue. He made a visit to Peshawar a few days later, where he met local politicians, during which he expressed his views on the parliament being \"the mother of all institutions\". He has praised the role of democracy in creating an \"independent media, judiciary and parliament.\" He further paid tribute to the Pakistan Army in its role in the War on Terror and military operations in the troubled northwestern areas.\n\nIn the fraud case against Asif Ali Zardari, he indicated in September 2012 that he would be willing to open the pending fraud cases.\n\nWhen commenting on foreign policy after assuming premiership, Ashraf said that he wanted to deal with the United States on \"an equal footing\". However, he will likely have to deal with the court's demands to charge Zardari before doing much else. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India congratulated Ashraf shortly after his election, and anticipated greater progress in bilateral relations between the two countries during Ashraf's term. The Chinese government greeted Ashraf and pledged closer ties with Pakistan to strengthen their \"all-weather friendship\". Other notable messages of congratulation came from U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Afghan president Hamid Karzai.\n\nOn 24 June 2012, several Tehrik-i-Taliban militants from Afghanistan entered Pakistan's bordering tribal areas killing 13 Pakistani troops, of which seven were beheaded. During the conflict, Pakistani troops killed fourteen of the raiding militants. The attack, one of several such cross-border skirmishes, was strongly condemned with Raja Pervaiz Ashraf stating that the matter would be directly taken to Afghan president Hamid Karzai.\n\nRegarding his stand on the Kashmir conflict with India, Ashraf has categorically stated that Pakistan would continue providing moral, political, and diplomatic support to the Kashmiri people of Jammu and Kashmir until a solution was to be reached for the issue in accordance with UN resolutions and Kashmiri aspirations.\n\nAshraf is expected to visit Kabul, Afghanistan, to hold talks with the Afghan leadership on the peace process in Afghanistan amidst the ongoing Afghan war and to discuss the status of Afghan-led reconciliation with the Afghan Taliban. The visit comes at a time when Pakistan's relations with the United States have improved in the aftermath of the 2011 NATO attack. On 15 July, he performed a two-day state visit to Saudi Arabia, his first official tour since becoming prime minister. During the visit, he would perform Umrah, meet with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, discuss the status of relations between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and also meet members of the Pakistani community in Saudi Arabia.\n\nOn his visit to Kabul, Afghanistan, in late July 2012, Ashraf met with Karzai government officials and engaged in talks with the two main opposition leaders Abdullah Abdullah from the National Coalition of Afghanistan and Ahmad Zia Massoud from the National Front of Afghanistan. Among other things they discussed the need for increased and regular dialogue between leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nOn 30 March, the apex court had directed the National Accountability Bureau to proceed against those who were in the post of minister for water and power from 2006 till the next general elections. As a result, on 20 April, NAB issued arrest warrants for 33 persons, including Ashraf.\n\nOn 15 January 2013, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ordered the arrest of Raja Pervaiz Ashraf for alleged corruption as Ashraf was accused of kickbacks from rental power plants that were part of a project intended to serve as part of the solution to Pakistan's power problems. The media derided Raja Pervaiz Ashraf as \"Rental Raja\". The arrest order came at the same time as the Long March culminated in the national capital of Islamabad. None of the accused in the rental case has been convicted so far. The rental power case is pending with independent Supreme court for nearly four years and no conviction has been made. Ashraf has time and again demanded clearance of his name and denies all the charges. Ashraf in his appearance in the Supreme Court categorically denied such charges and offered his complete cooperation with all authorities and courts. A member of the ruling Pakistan People's Party referred to the arrest order as \"a conspiracy\" while Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik, claimed that \"Even after this order, (Ashraf) is the prime minister and, God willing, he will continue as prime minister.\" The accountability court in Islamabad indicted former Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf and six others in the rental power case on 16 January 2014.\nRaja Pervez Ashraf appointed his son-in-law Raja Azeem in World Bank (Executive Director-Pakistan and others) in violation of rules and an example of Nepotism prevalent in Pakistani political elite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1061100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061100", "title": "Renato M. E. Sabbatini", "text": "Renato M. E. Sabbatini\n\nRenato Marcos Endrizzi Sabbatini (born 20 February 1947, Campinas) is a retired professor at the Department of Biomedical Engineering and at the State University of Campinas Institute of Biology. He received a B.Sc. in Biomedical Sciences from Medical School of the University of São Paulo and a doctorate in behavioral neuroscience in 1977, followed by postdoctoral work at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry's Primate Behavior Department. He founded the Center for Biomedical Informatics,\nand helped create the Brazilian Society for Health Informatics.\n\nSabbatini received the 1992 Prêmio José Reis de Divulgação Científica award for popular science writing,\nand was named one of Info Exame Magazine's \"50 Champions of Innovation\" for 2007. He is currently president of the Edumed Institute for Education in Medicine and Health, a \"not-for-profit educational, research and development institution.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39623574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623574", "title": "Rudy Provoost", "text": "Rudy Provoost\n\nRudy Provoost (born 16 October 1959) is a Belgian businessman and entrepreneur.\n\nProvoost holds a Master's degree in Psychology from Ghent University (1982), and a Master's degree in Business Management from the Vlerick Business School (1983) in Belgium.\n\nProvoost started his career at Procter & Gamble in 1984, before moving to Canon in 1987.\n\nIn 1992, he joined Whirlpool Corporation as Managing Director for Belgium and was later promoted to Vice-President, Consumer Services for Europe (based in Germany). He became Vice-President, Group Sales, Whirlpool Europe, Senior Officer and Member of the Chairman’s Council of Whirlpool Corporation in 1994 (based in Italy). In 1996, Rudy Provoost moved on to become Vice-President, Group Marketing, Europe, and a member of Whirlpool Corporation’s Brand Council. In early 1999, he was promoted to Vice-President, Whirlpool Brand Group, Europe.\n\nIn 2000, Provoost joined Royal Philips to lead the European Philips Consumer Electronics business (based in The Netherlands).\n\nIn 2004 he was appointed CEO of Philips Consumer Electronics, and in 2006 became a member of the Management Board of Royal Philips. Under his tenure, the consumer electronics division was restructured \nwith a focus on innovation.\nIn 2008, Provoost became CEO of the Philips Lighting division launching the “Simply Enhancing Life with Light” strategy to position the company as a leader in innovative and sustainable lighting solutions.\n\nAs Chairman of the Sustainability Board at Royal Philips, Rudy Provoost was the executive sponsor of the global Ecovision5 program, which integrated a green and social innovation agenda across the Group’s lighting, healthcare and consumer lifestyle divisions and provided a roadmap for sustainability at Philips.\n\nProvoost joined Rexel in October 2011 and became CEO and Chairman of the Management Board at the beginning of 2012 (based in France).\nShortly after joining Rexel, he announced the “Energy in Motion” company plan.\n\nIn May 2013, Rudy Provoost became Chairman of the Rexel Foundation for a better energy future, which was launched under the auspices of the Fondation de France.\n\nIn May 2014, Rudy Provoost was named Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Rexel. At the end of June 2016, Rudy Provoost relinquished his positions of Chairman and CEO.\n\nProvoost is the Founder and Managing Director of YquitY, a company delivering advisory, consultancy and business development, investment and management services.\n\nHe is currently a Member of the Supervisory Board and the Strategic Committee of Randstad, as well as a Member of the Board of Directors of Elia. He is also a Member of the Board of Directors of the Vlerick Business School.\n\nHe was a Member of the Board of Directors of the TCL Corporation (headquartered in China) between 2007 and 2009, and Chairman of the Board of Directors of LG.Philips LCD (later renamed LG Display, headquartered in South Korea) between 2006 and 2008. \nFrom 2008 until 2010, he was a Member of the Board of the European Federation of Quality Management (EFQM). \nRudy Provoost also served as President and Chairman of the Executive Board of DIGITALEUROPE (formerly called EICTA, the European Information & Communications Technology Industry Association).\n\nProvoost is a contributing author to the book \"The balancing act of innovation\" as well as the \"Knowledge@Wharton\" series.\n\nHe is also author of \"Energy 3.0\", a book which discusses the digital transformation of the energy world. The book is published in English and French by Cherche Midi.\n"}
{"id": "38777019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38777019", "title": "SAI Global", "text": "SAI Global\n\nSAI Global is a risk management, standards compliance and information business. It was floated on the Australian Stock Exchange on 17 December 2003, with the initial shareholding 40% retained by parent organisation Standards Australia having been progressively sold down to zero. It was part of the ASX 200.\n\nSAI Global provides a commercial database of Australian standards, called \"SAI Global - Standards Online\", including drafts and auxiliary material, which is available in many Australian libraries.\n\nThe company also administers the Australian Business Excellence Awards which are the national quality awards of Australia.\n\nIt is now owned by Baring Private Equity Asia. \n"}
{"id": "45238049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45238049", "title": "School Enterprise Challenge", "text": "School Enterprise Challenge\n\nThe School Enterprise Challenge is an international competition for schools to establish profitable student-led businesses. \n\nIt aims to develop young people’s business and soft skills to better prepare them for the world of work and to develop their capacities as socially responsible entrepreneurs. The income generated from these businesses moreover can provide a useful additional source of funds for less well-resourced schools in developing countries, or can be used to support social projects in the community by better resourced schools.\n\nThe competition since its launch in 2011 has benefited over 80,000 young people directly from over 90 countries and has been recognized internationally for its positive social impact, including as one of the WISE Awards 2014 finalists.\n\n"}
{"id": "31696946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31696946", "title": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva", "text": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva\n\nSociedad anónima deportiva (\"Public limited sports company\") is a special type of public limited company in Spain. The new legal status was introduced in 1990 to improve financial management and transparency in sports clubs. Many Spanish football and basketball clubs add the suffix S.A.D. to the end of their official name, e.g. Club Atlético de Madrid, S.A.D..\n\nEvery club which plays in Segunda División or Liga ACB and remains in the league is obliged to convert to S.A.D. status.\n\nFor historical reasons, Athletic Club, FC Barcelona, Real Madrid and Osasuna were allowed to retain their status as non-commercial sports associations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "364393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364393", "title": "Stefano Casiraghi", "text": "Stefano Casiraghi\n\nStefano Casiraghi (8 September 1960 – 3 October 1990) was an Italian speedboat racer, socialite, and businessman. He was the son of Giancarlo Casiraghi and Fernanda Biffi, and became the second husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco. He was famous for having set a speed record in speedboat racing and was at the time of his death in a racing accident, the world champion of offshore powerboat racing.\n\nThe son of Giancarlo Casiraghi (d. 1998), a businessman and Fernanda (née Biffi), Stefano Casiraghi grew up in the Casiraghi family's estate, Villa Cigogne, in Fino Mornasco. He had two brothers, Marco and Daniele (died in 2016), and one sister, Rosalba. He also developed an early passion for the speedboat races on Lake Como. He followed the course of his brothers by enrolling at Milan's Bocconi University. However, his eagerness to work in business was stronger than his wish to have a degree, or his skills to obtain one, and he left the university after only two years of study, to begin to work for his father and his oldest brother, Marco.\n\nHe was involved in the real estate and retail export enterprises of the family business that his father had built up. His obituary in \"The New York Times\" described him as a financier and said, at his death, Casiraghi was Chairman of \"Cogefar France\" (a construction subsidiary of Fiat). The same source said he had a majority interest in Engeco, a Monaco-based construction company which he founded in 1984. At the time of his first child's birth, it was said that he was the director of the Christian Dior boutique in Monte Carlo.\n\nA self-styled \"throttle man,\" Casiraghi participated in eighty offshore races during his lifetime. Over a 20-year career, he won a dozen of those competitions and, at the time of his death, was the world champion of offshore speedboat racing, including the World Championship held off the coast of Atlantic City in 1989. Casiraghi had set the record (since broken) for 277 km/h on Lake Como in 1984. It is a very dangerous sport, but as Casiraghi once said, \"There are more dangerous sports and I believe one should live life to the fullest.\"\n\nOn 29 December 1983 in Monaco, he and Princess Caroline married in a civil ceremony in the Hall of Mirrors of the Monegasque Princely Palace. They were not able to have a Catholic ceremony because Caroline had been divorced from Philippe Junot, and an annulment had not yet been obtained. However, as Caroline was over three months pregnant, the couple did not want to wait any longer.\n\nHer father, Prince Rainier III was by all accounts initially suspicious of his new son-in-law as were many others. The Italian papers called Casiraghi \"Carolino\" and portrayed him as a mere plaything for his wife.\n\nThe couple had three children: Andrea (born 8 June 1984), Charlotte (born 3 August 1986), and Pierre (born 5 September 1987). The children are, respectively, fourth, eighth and eleventh in the line of succession to the Monegasque throne, after their twin cousins and their mother. Despite their parents' not having married in the Church as required for legitimacy under church (but not Monagasque) law, they were legitimised by Pope John Paul II in February 1993, eight months after their mother's marriage to Junot was annulled in June 1992.\n\nCasiraghi was killed in an offshore powerboat racing accident off the coast of Monaco near Cap Ferrat on 3 October 1990 while defending his world offshore title. He was 30 years old and had planned to retire after the race. Only weeks earlier, he had escaped death when his boat blew up off the coast of Guernsey.\n\nThere were three to four-foot wave conditions on the race course, which caused Casiraghi's 42-foot catamaran, \"Pinot di Pinot\", to flip. Traveling at ca. 150 km/h, it did not have a full canopy, and experts who studied the accident have said that Casiraghi would most likely have survived the accident had the boat been equipped with such a canopy. As a result of his death, safety laws became more stringent; a safety harness and closed hull became compulsory, as was a twin hull design for boats. Races nowadays take place close to the harbor where waves are gentler, which is policed off for safety reasons as boats are no longer allowed to drive near the course.\n\nOf the tragedy, Anne Edwards wrote that Casiraghi and his copilot, Patrice Innocenti, had been \"trying to make up for time they had lost earlier in the race when they had stopped to rescue a pilot whose vessel had caught fire.\"\n\nPatrice Innocenti, survived the accident. He was pulled from the water and taken to Monaco's Princess Grace Hospital.\n\nThe funeral Mass was held in Monaco's Cathedral of St. Nicholas exactly eight years after Princess Grace's funeral in the same place.\n\nStefano Casiraghi is buried in the Chapelle de la Paix in Monaco, which is also the resting place of his wife's paternal grandfather, Prince Pierre of Monaco.\n\n"}
{"id": "32776196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32776196", "title": "Sulaiman Al-Habib", "text": "Sulaiman Al-Habib\n\nDr. Sulaiman bin Abdulaziz Al-Habib (; born on the 20th century in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia) is the founder and the Chairman of Dr. Sulaiman Al-Habib Medical Group which owns and operates a number of hospitals and medical centers in Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Kingdom of Bahrain. Dr. Sulaiman Al-Habib, M.R.C.P.\n(UK), D.C.H. (London), is a Pediatric Consultant.\nHe has practiced in the United Kingdom and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. He is also a co-owner and board member of Mohammad Al Habib Real Estate Co., a company which owns a number of real estate projects in KSA.\n\nWork experience and key positions:\n"}
{"id": "12252243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12252243", "title": "Taxation of private equity and hedge funds", "text": "Taxation of private equity and hedge funds\n\nPrivate equity funds and hedge funds are private investment vehicles used to pool investment capital, usually for a small group of large institutional or wealthy individual investors. They are subject to favorable regulatory treatment in most jurisdictions from which they are managed, which allows them to engage in financial activities that are off-limits for more regulated companies. Both types of fund also take advantage of generally applicable rules in their jurisdictions to minimize the tax burden on their investors, as well as on the fund managers. As media coverage increases regarding the growing influence of hedge funds and private equity, these tax rules are increasingly under scrutiny by legislative bodies. Private equity and hedge funds choose their structure depending on the individual circumstances of the investors the fund is designed to attract.\n\nA private equity or hedge fund located in the United States will typically be structured as a limited partnership, due to the lack of an entity-level tax on partnerships and other flow-through entities under the U.S. tax system. The limited partners will be the institutional and individual investors. The general partner will be an affiliate of the manager of the fund. Typically, the manager of the hedge fund is compensated with a fee based on 2% of the gross assets of the fund, and a profits interest entitling the manager (or, more typically, its affiliated general partner) to 20% of the fund's return (subject, in many cases, to minimum guaranteed returns for the limited partners).\n\nBecause the manager is compensated with a profits interest in the fund, the bulk of its income from the fund is taxed, not as compensation for services, but as a return on investment. Typically, when a partner receives a profits interest (commonly referred to as a \"carried interest\"), the partner is not taxed upon receipt, due to the difficulty of ascertaining the present value of an interest in future profits. Instead, the partner is taxed as the partnership earns income. In the case of a hedge fund, this means that the partner defers taxation on the income that the hedge fund earns, which is typically ordinary income (or possibly short-term capital gains), due to the nature of the investments most hedge funds make. Private equity funds, however, typically invest on a longer horizon, with the result that\nincome earned by the funds is long-term capital gain, taxable to individuals at a maximum 20% rate. Because the 20% profits share typically is the bulk of the manager’s compensation, and because this compensation can reach, in the case of the most successful funds, enormous figures, concern has been raised, both in Congress and in the media, that managers are taking advantage of tax loopholes to receive what is effectively a salary without paying the ordinary 39.6% marginal income tax rates that an average person would have to pay on such income. To address this concern, Congressman Sander M. Levin introduced , which would eliminate the ability of persons performing investment adviser or similar services to partnerships to receive capital gains tax treatment on their income. However, the Treasury Department has suggested, both in testimony before the Senate Finance\nCommittee and in public speaking engagements, that altering the tax treatment of a single industry raises tax policy concerns, and that changing the way partnerships in general are taxed is something that should only be done after careful consideration of the potential impact.\n\nCongressman Charles B. Rangel included a revised version of H.R. 2834 as part of the \"Mother of All Tax Reform\" and the 2007 House extenders package. A line item on taxing carried interest at ordinary income rates was included in the Obama Administration's 2008 Budget Blueprint. On April 2, 2009, Congressman Levin introduced a new and substantially revised version of the carried interest legislation as . On May 28, 2010, the House approved carried interest legislation as part of amendments to the Senate-passed version of . On February 14, 2012, Congressman Levin introduced .\n\nIn mid-2007, the Blackstone group, a major private equity fund, went public. Ordinarily, a publicly traded partnership is taxed as a corporation. There is, however, an exception for publicly traded partnerships earning only “passive-type” income, such as interest and dividends. Although the investments made by a private equity fund are actively managed, Blackstone took the position that the investments they engaged in fell squarely within literal language of this exception to the usual treatment for publicly traded partnerships. To address what they viewed as a loophole in the law, Senators Baucus and Grassley introduced S. 1624, which would remove the ability for publicly traded partnerships performing asset-management and related services to avoid being taxed as\ncorporations. The result of this bill would be to change the tax treatment of private equity and hedge funds from a single level of taxation at a 15% rate (or 35% in the case of most hedge funds) to a corporate-level tax of 35%, plus a 15% tax on dividends when distributed. While acknowledging that there are concerns with the current treatment of publicly traded partnerships, Treasury Secretary Paulson has declined to endorse the treatment that would be provided under S. 1624.\n\nThe House extenders package included a carried interest provision that would apply to publicly traded partnerships beginning in tax years after 31 December 2009.\n\nVarious private equity and hedge fund managers followed Fortress, the first fund manager to go public as a PTP. The funds include Oaktree, Blackstone Group, Och-Ziff, KKR, Apollo Global Management, and Carlyle Group.\n\nAlthough a partnership structure is advantageous for most investors due to the elimination of an entity-level tax, it is not the desired form for all investors. In particular, foreign investors and domestic tax-exempt organizations both have reasons to prefer to interpose a corporation in the private equity or hedge fund structure.\n\nForeign investors are generally not required to file tax returns unless they have “effectively connected income,” derived from the active conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Passive investment in a corporation does not give rise to a U.S. trade or business. However, active investment management of the type performed by private equity funds or hedge funds typically does. Because partners in a partnership are treated as engaged in whatever business the partnership itself is engaged in, this means that if a foreign investor invests in a hedge fund or private equity fund, it will generally be forced to file a U.S. tax return. To avoid this requirement, a foreign investor will often invest through a blocker corporation (usually located in the Cayman Islands or another offshore jurisdiction). The corporation itself will be required to file U.S. tax returns, and will pay taxes at the normal U.S.\ncorporate tax rate, but the foreign investor will receive only dividends or capital gains from the blocker, and will therefore not be required to file a U.S. return. As an alternative to the “blocker” structure, hedge funds seeking to attract foreign investors can also structure as partnerships, but simply restrict themselves to activities that are not treated as a U.S. trade or business. For example, U.S. tax law provides that trading in securities for the taxpayer’s own account will not constitute a U.S. trade or business. Thus foreign hedge funds formed as corporations do not generally pay corporate income tax.\n\nDomestic tax-exempt entities face similar concerns when investing in funds structured as partnerships. While tax-exempt on income related to their tax-exempt purpose, tax exempt entities are required to file tax returns and pay income tax on “unrelated business taxable income,” commonly referred to as UBTI. Because the activities of an entity structured as a partnership flow through to its investors, if the partnership receives income that would be UBTI in the hands of the tax-exempt investor, the investor is forced to file an income-tax return and pay unrelated business income tax. To avoid this requirement, tax exempt entities use offshore blocker corporations in much the same way foreign investors do. To date, no bill has been introduced to change this treatment, although concerns over the tax gap have led to increased scrutiny of business structures involving offshore corporations in general. For example, in May 2007, the Senate Finance Committee held a hearing about offshore structures\nused for tax evasion.\n"}
{"id": "1114155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114155", "title": "Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy", "text": "Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy\n\nThe Uniform Domain-Name Dispute-Resolution Policy (UDRP) is a process established by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) for the resolution of disputes regarding the registration of internet domain names. The UDRP currently applies to all generic top level domains (.com, .net, .org, etc...), some country code top-level domains, and some older top level domains in specific circumstances.\n\nWhen ICANN was first set up, one of the core tasks assigned to it was \"The Trademark Dilemma\", the use of trade marks as domain names without the trademark owner's consent. By the late 1990s, such use was identified as problematic and likely to lead to consumers being misled. In the United Kingdom, the Court of Appeal described such domain names as \"an instrument of fraud\".\n\nOne of ICANN's first steps was to commission the United Nations World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) to produce a report on the conflict between trademarks and domain names. Published on 30 April 1999, the WIPO Report recommended the establishment of a \"mandatory administrative procedure concerning abusive registrations\", which would allow for a \"neutral venue in the context of disputes that are often international in nature.\" The procedure was not intended to deal with cases with competing rights, nor would it exclude the jurisdiction of the courts. It would, however, be mandatory in the sense that \"each domain name application would, in the domain name agreement, be required to submit to the procedure if a claim was initiated against it by a third party\n\nThe WIPO Report sets out the now familiar three stage test of the UDRP.\n\nFollowing adoption by ICANN, the UDRP was launched on 1 December 1999, and the first case determined under it by WIPO was \"World Wrestling Federation Entertainment, Inc v. Michael Bosman\", involving the domain name worldwrestlingfederation.com\n\nProviders of the UDRP are:\n\n\nWhen a registrant chooses a domain name, the registrant must \"represent and warrant\", among other things, that registering the name \"will not infringe upon or otherwise violate the rights of any third party\", and agree to participate in an arbitration-like proceeding should any third party assert such a claim.\n\nA complainant in a UDRP proceeding must establish three elements to succeed:\n\n\nIn a UDRP proceeding, a panel will consider several non-exclusive factors to assess bad faith, such as:\n\n\nThe goal of the UDRP is to create a streamlined process for resolving such disputes. It was envisioned that this process would be quicker and less expensive than a standard legal challenge. The costs to hire a UDRP provider to handle a complaint often start around US$1,000 to $2,000.\n\nIf a party loses a UDRP proceeding, in many jurisdictions it may still bring a lawsuit against the domain name registrant under local law. For example, the administrative panel's UDRP decision can be challenged and overturned in a U.S. court of law by means of e.g. the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act. If a domain name registrant loses a UDRP proceeding, it must file a lawsuit against the trademark holder within ten days to prevent ICANN from transferring the domain name.\n\nThe UDRP process has already been used in a number of well-known cases, such as \"Madonna Ciccone, p/k/a Madonna v. Dan Parisi and \"Madonna.com\"\". In this case, the arbitration panel found against the defendant registrant based on all three of the above factors and ordered the domain name turned over to Madonna.\n\nOften there is contention over similar but not identical domain names, in which the offended party files a court action claiming trademark or copyright infringement. For example, actor Robert De Niro has claimed ownership of all domain names incorporating the text \"Tribeca\" for domain names with any content related to film festivals. In particular, he has a dispute with the owner of the website http://tribeca.net.\n\nIn 2012, ICANN launched a process to create new generic top-level domains. Over 1,900 applications were made. As part of the expansion of the domain name system, ICANN introduced a number of new brand protection mechanisms. Opinions differ as to whether or not these new processes will be effective. Industry commentators predict that the UDRP will continue to be used, and that there will be a \"substantial increase in cybersquatting\". Evidence from previous expansions of the namespace, however, indicates the continued dominance of .com both in size and as the first-choice domain for cybersquatting (based on number of disputes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6476816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6476816", "title": "Unissued stock", "text": "Unissued stock\n\nUnissued stock is stock that has been authorized in a company's charter, but has never been sold. It differs from Treasury stock (in the UK, Treasury shares, as treasury stock means something else), in that treasury stock has been issued, and bought back by the company, whereas unissued stock has never been issued.\n"}
{"id": "31566960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31566960", "title": "Urs Sonderegger", "text": "Urs Sonderegger\n\nUrs \"Ursinho\" Sonderegger (born 28 April 1964 in Glarus) is a Swiss entrepreneur and racing driver. He currently competes in the World Touring Car Championship, driving a BMW 320 TC for the Wiechers-Sport team. Sonderegger runs an architecture and property firm called Atelier2000 Look GmbH.\n\nSonderegger began his racing career in 2006. In 2007 he began competing in the SEAT León Supercopa in both Germany and Spain. In 2008 he began competing in the SEAT León Eurocup.\n\nIn 2011 he began racing in the World Touring Car Championship, driving a BMW 320 TC for the Wiechers-Sport team.\n\nUrs and the Wiechers team agreed to part company part way through the 2011 WTCC season.\n\n"}
{"id": "38907483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38907483", "title": "Valdemar Glückstadt", "text": "Valdemar Glückstadt\n\nValdemar Josef Glückstadt (25 February 1868 in Christiania - 11 November 1942) was a Danish businessman and Consul-General.\n\nHe was the son of prominent banker Isak Glückstadt og Juliette Sophie Raffel, and belonged to a prominent Jewish family from Denmark. His brother was Emil Glückstadt.\n\nHe was a Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog, and the Consul-General of Italy to Denmark.\n\nHe was married to Julie Emilie (born 1875, died 1952), daughter of Edvard Rée. Their daughter Ella Glückstadt (b. 1899) was married in 1920 to Count Erik Moltke of Nør (died 1922) og secondly to Thorleif Paus.\n\n"}
