{"id": "22883449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22883449", "title": "Africa (Toto song)", "text": "Africa (Toto song)\n\n\"Africa\" is a song by the American rock band Toto. It was included on their fourth studio album \"Toto IV,\" and released as a single on September 30, 1982. It reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart on February 5, 1983 (the band's only Billboard number one), and number three on the UK Singles Chart the same month. The song was written and composed by the band members David Paich and Jeff Porcaro.\n\nThe song saw a resurgence in popularity via social media during the 2010s. In the midst of the song's growing popularity, the band Weezer recorded a cover version in 2018 that peaked at number 51 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number one on the \"Billboard\" Alternative Songs chart. In the U.S., the single was initially certified gold by the RIAA in 1991. However, since its renewed popularity, sales of both the original Toto single and the Weezer cover have surged, with the original single certified platinum in 2017, and most recently 4x Platinum in October 2018.\n\nThe initial idea and lyrics for the song came from David Paich. Jeff Porcaro explains the idea behind the song: \"A white boy is trying to write a song on Africa, but since he's never been there, he can only tell what he's seen on TV or remembers in the past.\"\n\nPaich said:\n\nAt the beginning of the '80s I watched a late night documentary on TV about all the terrible death and suffering of the people in Africa. It both moved and appalled me, and the pictures just wouldn't leave my head. I tried to imagine how I'd feel about if I was there and what I'd do.\n\nIn 2015, Paich explained that the song is about a man's love of a continent, Africa, rather than just a personal romance. In 2018, Paich explained the song is about a person flying in to meet a lonely missionary.\nAs a child, Paich attended a Catholic school. Several of the teachers had done missionary work in Africa, and this became the inspiration behind the line \"I bless the rains down in Africa.\"\n\nPaich was playing around with a new keyboard and found the brassy sound that became the opening riff. He started humming a melody and by the chorus, the words just came to him.\n\nMusically, the song took quite some time to assemble, as Paich and Porcaro explain:\n\nPorcaro also acknowledged that he was influenced by the sounds created by fellow Los Angeles session musicians Milt Holland and Emil Richards. He also described the influence of the drummers at the Africa pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair and a National Geographic Special. I was about 11 when the New York World's Fair took place, and I went to the African pavilion with my family. I saw the real thing ... It was the first time I witnessed somebody playing one beat and not straying from it, like a religious experience, where it gets loud, and everyone goes into a trance.\n\nDuring an appearance on the radio station KROQ-FM, Steve Porcaro and Steve Lukather described the song as \"dumb\" and \"an experiment\" and some of the lyrics as \"goofy\" that were just placeholders. It was also the last song recorded and barely made the album. The band was more focused on the album's lead single \"Rosanna\" instead.\n\nThe music video was directed by Steve Barron. In the video, a researcher in a library (portrayed by band member David Paich) tries to match a scrap of a picture of a shield to the book from which it was torn out. As he continues his search, a librarian (Jenny Douglas-McRae) working at a nearby desk takes occasional notice of him, while natives in the surrounding jungle begin to close in on the library. When the researcher finds a book titled \"Africa,\" the native throws a spear (the shield the native carries is the same as the one in the picture), toppling stacks of books. \"Africa\" falls open to the page from which the scrap was torn, but a lantern lands on it and sets it on fire, after which the librarian's eyeglasses are shown falling to the floor. The scenes are intercut with shots of a spinning globe and the band performing atop a stack of giant hardcover books, in which \"Africa\" is the topmost.\n\nThis video also features Mike Porcaro on bass, replacing David Hungate, who had already left the band before the video was made. Lenny Castro is also featured in the video on percussion.\n\nAlthough the song was popular upon its release, hitting No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 in February 1983, the song has retained cultural popularity throughout the 21st century in the U.S. The song has been utilized in many internet memes, as well as making appearances in popular television shows, such as \"Stranger Things\" and \"South Park\", and being used by CBS during their coverage of the funeral of former South African president Nelson Mandela, albeit not without controversy. In 2012, \"Africa\" was listed by music magazine \"NME\" in 32nd place on its list of \"50 Most Explosive Choruses.\"\n\n\n\nWeezer covered the song, following a fan-initiated social media campaign; it was released on May 29, 2018.\n\nIn December 2017, Twitter user \"@WeezerAfrica,\" run by a 14-year-old Cleveland, Ohio resident Mary Klym, tweeted, \"\"@RiversCuomo it's about time you bless the rains down in Africa\".\" After much back-and-forth between Mary and Weezer's drummer, Patrick Wilson, the band released a cover of \"Rosanna\" in response to the popularity of the song. Weezer released \"Africa\" on May 29, 2018. It was the band's first Hot 100 hit since 2009. \"Africa\" peaked at number-one on the \"Billboard\" Alternative Songs chart in August 2018, becoming the band's first number-one single since \"Pork and Beans\" in 2008.\n\nA limited edition 7-inch vinyl pressing was released by Weezer in July 2018 and sold exclusively through Urban Outfitters. The pressing was limited to 1500 copies, with \"Africa\" as the A-side and \"Rosanna\" as the B-side. The cover artwork features a background of palm fronds with the tweet that inspired the song in the center of the cover.\n\nShortly after the song's release, Weezer appeared on \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" along with keyboardist Steve Porcaro of Toto to promote the single. On August 9, 2018, Toto responded by releasing a cover of Weezer's 2001 single \"Hash Pipe\", after debuting it in concert a week prior.\n\nWeezer released a music video of their \"Africa\" cover in September 2018, styled as a parody of the video for their earlier single \"Undone – The Sweater Song.\" Stand-ins for the band members perform the song on a soundstage, with \"Weird Al\" Yankovic replacing singer/guitarist Rivers Cuomo, with his band members replacing Weezer. Yankovic had previously appeared onstage during the band's tour to perform \"Africa\" with them.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3641082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3641082", "title": "Agha Bozorg Mosque", "text": "Agha Bozorg Mosque\n\nAgha Bozorg mosque ( \"Masjed-e Āghā Bozorg\") is a historical mosque in Kashan, Iran. The mosque was built in the late 18th century by master-mi'mar Ustad Haj Sa'ban-ali. The mosque and theological school (\"madrasah\") is located in the center of the city.\n\nAgha Bozorgh Mosque was constructed for prayers, preaching and teaching sessions held by Molla Mahdi Naraghi II also known as Mulla Mohammad Naraqi, known famously by his title of \"Āghā Bozorgh\" (literally meaning big or great lord) given to him by the Shah himself. Molla Mahdi Naraghi II was the son of the legendary Mulla Ahmad Naraqi (also spelled sometimes as Naraghi) who was the second strongest person in Iran after the king himself, Fath-Ali Shah Qajar. Mulla Ahmad Naraqi is well known for rallying the Iranian forces against the Russian invasion of northern Iran and declaring \"jihad\" or \"holy war\" against the invading Russians. He was successfully able to reconquer the Iranian lands that the invading Russian forces had captured during that offensive. Mulla Ahmad Naraqi, his brothers, his sons, and his father Mulla Muhammad Mahdi Naraqi famously known as Muhaqqiq Naraqi; are some of the most prominent Shi'a clerics as well as some of the most famous Islamic Iranian scientists of their time. Mulla Ahmad Naraqi and his father Muhaqqiq Naraqi are especially well known and honored to this day in Iran as the leading Islamic leaders of their time. It being the first time in Shi'a Twelver Islam that the helm of leadership of the faith was passed from father to son. Mulla Ahmad Naraqi was so accomplished in jurisprudence at the time of his father's passing (1209 AH/1795 CE) that it was agreed upon in a general consensus by the other leading figures of the time, to have Mulla Ahmad Naraqi as the next leader of the faith. Muhaqqiq Naraqi and Mulla Ahmad Naraqi's status in society at the time as leaders in both politics, jurisprudence, and faith can best be compared to the power and position held by Popes in the Catholic Church. They were in essence the leaders of the entire Twelver Shi'a world. With Mulla Ahmad Naraqi's passing in 1229 AH/1829 CE he was honored by being interred in the Shrine of Ali. His legacy holds as one of the most important and renowned Muslims in the past 1100 years and one of only a handful of Muslims who have been honored throughout history by being laid to rest in the Shrine of Imam Ali. \n\nThe mosque has been described as \"the finest Islamic complex in Kashan and one of the best of the mid-19th century\". Noted for its symmetrical design, it consists of two large iwans, one in front of the mihrab and the other by the entrance. The courtyard has a second court in the middle which comprises a garden with trees and a fountain. The iwan in front of mehrab has two minarets with a brick dome. It was here where Ustad Ali Maryam as a pupil started his career as an architect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588564", "title": "Authorial intent", "text": "Authorial intent\n\nIn literary theory and aesthetics, authorial intent refers to an author's intent as it is encoded in his or her work. Authorial intentionalism is the view, according to which an author's intentions should constrain the ways in which it is properly interpreted.\n\nNew Criticism, as espoused by Cleanth Brooks, W. K. Wimsatt, T. S. Eliot, and others, argued that authorial intent is irrelevant to understanding a work of literature. Wimsatt and Monroe Beardsley argue in their essay \"The Intentional Fallacy\" that \"the design or intention of the author is neither available nor desirable as a standard for judging the success of a work of literary art\". The author, they argue, cannot be reconstructed from a writing—the text is the primary source of meaning, and any details of the author's desires or life are secondary. Wimsatt and Beardsley argue that even details about the work's composition or the author's intended meaning and purpose that might be found in other documents such as journals or letters are \"private or idiosyncratic; not a part of the work as a linguistic fact\" and are thus secondary to the trained reader's rigorous engagement with the text itself.\n\nWimsatt and Beardsley divide the evidence used in making interpretations of poetry (although their analysis can be applied equally well to any type of art) into three categories:\n\n\n\nThus, a text's internal evidence—the words themselves and their meanings—is open for literary analysis. External evidence—anything not contained within the text itself, such as statements made by the poet about the poem that is being interpreted—does not belong to literary criticism. Preoccupation with the authorial intent \"leads away from the poem.\" According to Wimsatt and Beardsley, a poem does not belong to its author but rather \"is detached from the author at birth and goes about the world beyond his power to intend about it or control it. The poem belongs to the public.\"\n\nIn psychoanalytic criticism, the author's biography and unconscious state were seen as part of the text, and therefore the author's intent could be revived from a literary text—although the intent might be an unconscious one.\n\nThe Cambridge School of contextualist hermeneutics, a position most elaborated by Quentin Skinner, in the first instances distinguishes linguistic meaning from speech-acts: that is to say, things which the performance of an utterance \"does\". Consider the following. Typically, the ceremony of marriage concludes upon the exchange of the utterance \"I do\". In such a case, to utter \"I do\" is not merely to report an internal disposition, but to perform an action, namely, to \"get\" married. The intended force of \"I do\" in such a circumstance is only ever retrievable through understanding something about the complex social activity of marriage. Indeed, to understand a speech-act is to understand what conventions are regulating its significance. Since actions are always publicly legible—they are done by the speech itself—this presupposes no knowledge about the author's mental states. The task is always thus: with as much contextual information as possible, can we establish which conventions a text was interacting with, and by inference to the best explanation, what the author's intent was.\n\nIn post-structuralism, there are a variety of approaches to authorial intent. For some of the theorists deriving from Jacques Lacan, and in particular theories variously called \"écriture féminine\", gender and sex predetermine the ways that texts will emerge, and the language of textuality itself will present an argument that is potentially counter to the author's conscious intent.\n\nFor Marxist literary theorists, the author's intent is always a code for a particular set of ideologies in the author's own day. For Marxists (especially those of the Soviet realism type), authorial intent is manifest in the text and must be placed in a context of liberation and the materialist dialectic. However, Marxist-derived theorists have seen authorial intent in a much more nuanced way. Raymond Williams, for example, posits literary productions always within a context of emerging, resistant, and synthetic ideological positions. The author's intent is recoverable from the text, but there are always encoded within it several separate positions. The author might be arguing consciously for empire, but hidden within that argument will be a response to a counterargument and a presentation of an emerging synthesis. Some members of the reception theory group (Hans Robert Jauss, in particular) have approximated the Marxist view by arguing that the forces of cultural reception reveal the ideological positions of both author and readership.\n\nReader response critics view the authorial intent variously. In general, they have argued that the author's intent itself is immaterial and cannot be fully recovered. However, the author's intent will shape the text and limit the possible interpretations of a work. The reader's \"impression\" of the author's intent is a working force in interpretation, but the author's actual intent is not.\n\nWeak intentionalism combines intentionalism with insights from reader response. Mark Bevir in \"The Logic of the History of Ideas\" sees meanings as necessarily intentional but suggests that the relevant intentions can be those of readers as well as those of authors. Weak intentionalists privilege intentionality to emphasize that texts do not have meanings in themselves. They believe that meanings are always meanings for people—albeit the relevant people, whether authors or readers.\n\nAuthorial intention is of great practical concern to some textual critics. These are known as intentionalists and are identified with the Bowers-Tanselle school of thought. Their editions have as one of their most important goals the recovery of the author's intentions (generally final intentions). When preparing a work for the press, an editor working along the principles outlined by Fredson Bowers and G. Thomas Tanselle will attempt to construct a text that is close to the author's final intentions. For transcription and typesetting, authorial intentionality can be considered paramount.\n\nAn intentionalist editor would constantly investigate the documents for traces of authorial intention. On one hand, it can be argued that the author always intends whatever the author writes and that at different points in time the same author might have very different intentions. On the other hand, an author may in some cases write something he or she did not intend. For example, an intentionalist would consider for emendation the following cases:\n\n\nIn cases such as these where the author is living, they would be questioned by the editor who would then adhere to the intention expressed. In cases where the author is deceased, an intentionalist would attempt to approach authorial intention. The strongest voices countering an emphasis on authorial intent in scholarly editing have been D. F. McKenzie and Jerome McGann, proponents of a model that accounts for the \"social text,\" tracing material transformations and embodiments of works while not privileging one version over another.\n\n"}
{"id": "31961763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31961763", "title": "Biography in literature", "text": "Biography in literature\n\nWhen studying literature, biography and its relationship to literature is often a subject of literary criticism, and is treated in several different forms. Two scholarly approaches use biography or biographical approaches to the past as a tool for interpreting literature: literary biography and biographical criticism. Additionally, two genres of fiction rely heavily on the incorporation of biographical elements into their content, biographical fiction and autobiographical fiction.\n\nA literary biography is the biographical exploration of the lives of writers and artists. Biographies about artists and writers are sometimes some of the most complicated forms of biography. Not only does the author of the biography have to write about the subject of the biography but also must incorporate discussion of the individual's literary works into the biography itself. Literary biographers must balance the weight of commentary on the individual works against the biographical content to create a coherent narrative. This balance is affected by the degree of biographical elements in an author's literary works. The close relationship between writers and their work relies on ideas that connect human psychology and literature and can be examined through psychoanalytic theory.\n\nLiterary biography tends to have a plethora of autobiographical sources. Elizabeth Longford, a biographer of Wilfrid Blunt, noted, \"Writers are articulate and tend to leave eloquent source material which the biographer will be eager to use.\" However, some authors and artists go out of their way to discourage the writing of their biographies, as was the case with Kafka, Eliot, Orwell and Auden. Auden said, \"Biographies of writers whether written by others or themselves are always superfluous and usually in bad taste... His private life is, or should be, of no concern to anybody except himself, his family and his friends.\"\n\nWell-received literary biographies include Richard Ellmann's \"James Joyce\" and George Painter's \"Marcel Proust\".\n\nBiographical criticism is the deliberate use of biographical information to shed light on the difference created by experience between an author and his audience, and so provide insight into how to understand that particular work.\n\nBiographical fiction is a type of historical fiction that takes a historical individual and recreates elements of his or her life, while telling a fictional narrative, usually in the genres of film or the novel. The relationship between the biographical and the fictional may vary within different pieces of biographical fiction. It frequently includes selective information and self-censoring of the past. The characters are often real people or based on real people, but the need for \"truthful\" representation is less strict than in biography. \n\nThe various philosophies behind biographical fiction lead to different types of content. Some asserts itself as a factual narrative about the historical individual, like Gore Vidal's \"Lincoln\". Other biographical fiction creates two parallel strands of narrative, one in the contemporary world and one focusing on the biographical history, such as Malcolm Bradbury's \"To the Hermitage\" and Michael Cunningham's \"The Hours\". No matter what style of biographical fiction is used, the novelist usually starts the writing process with historical research.\n\nBiographical fiction has its roots in late 19th and early 20th-century novels based loosely on the lives of famous people, but without direct reference to them, such as George Meredith's \"Diana of the Crossways\" (1885) and Somerset Maugham's \"The Moon and Sixpence\" (1919). During the early part of the 20th century this became a distinct genre, with novels that were explicitly about individuals' lives.\n\nAutobiographical fiction, or autofiction, is fiction that incorporates the author's own experience into the narrative. It allows authors to both rely and reflect on their own experience. However, the reading of the autobiographical fiction need not always be associated with the author. Such books may be treated as distinct fictional works.\n\n"}
{"id": "3778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3778", "title": "Book", "text": "Book\n\nA book is both a usually portable physical object and the body of immaterial representations or intellectual object whose material signs—written or drawn lines or other two-dimensional media—the physical object contains or houses. \n\nAs a physical object, a book is a stack of usually rectangular pages (made of papyrus, parchment, vellum, or paper) oriented with one side (either left or right, depending on the direction in which one reads a script) tied, sewn, or otherwise fixed together and then bound to the flexible spine of a protective cover of heavier, relatively inflexible material so that, when the opened front cover has received a massy enough stack of sheets, the book can lie flat. The technical term for this physical arrangement is \"codex\" (in the plural, \"codices\"). In the history of hand-held physical supports for extended written compositions or records, the codex replaces its immediate predecessor, the scroll. \n\nAs an intellectual object, a book is prototypically a composition of such great length that it takes a considerable investment of time to compose and a still considerable, though not so extensive, investment of time to read. This sense of book has a restricted and an unrestricted sense. In the restricted sense, a book is a self-sufficient section or part of a longer composition, a usage that reflects the fact that, in antiquity, long works had to be written on several scrolls, and each scroll had to be identified by the book it contained. So, for instance, each part of Aristotle's \"Physics\" is called a book, as of course the Bible encompasses many different books. In the unrestricted sense, a book is the compositional whole of which such sections, whether called books or chapters or parts, are parts.\n\nBut the intellectual content in a physical book need not be a composition, or can be called a book. Books can consist only of drawings, engravings, or photographs, or such things as crossword puzzles or cut-out dolls. In a physical book the pages can be left blank or can feature an abstract set of lines as support for on-going entries, i.e., an account book, an appointment book, a log book, an autograph book, a notebook, a diary or day book, or a sketch book. Some physical books are made with pages thick and sturdy enough to support other physical objects, like a scrapbook or photograph album. \n\nBooks may be distributed in electronic form as e-books and other formats. In its \"Revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Statistics on the Production and Distribution of Books, Newspapers and Periodicals\" of 1 November 1985, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) stated that it was \"convinced that it is desirable that the national authorities responsible for collecting and reporting statistics relating to the production and distribution of printed publications should be guided by certain standards in the matter of definitions, classification and presentation,\" and so \"in order to improve the international comparability of statistics,\" it defined a book as \"a non-periodic publication of at least 49 pages exclusive of the cover pages, published in the country and made available to the public\" (11(a)), so that books statistics could be collected on \"(a) Government publications, i.e., publications issued by public administrations or their subsidiary bodies, except for those which are confidential or designed for internal distribution only; (b) School textbooks, books prescribed for pupils receiving education at the first and second level as defined in the revised Recommendation concerning the International Standardization of Educational Statistics adopted by the General Conference; (c) University theses; (d) Offprints, i.e., reprints of a part of a book or a periodical already published, provided that they have a title and a separate pagination and that they constitute a distinct work; (e) Publications which form part of a series, but which constitute separate bibliographical units; (f) Illustrated works: (i) Collections of prints, reproductions of works of art, drawings, etc., when such collections form complete, paginated volumes and when the illustrations are accompanied by an explanatory text, however short, referring to these works or to the artists themselves; (ii) Albums, illustrated books and pamphlets written in the form of continuous narratives, with pictures illustrating certain episodes; (iii) Albums and picture-books for children; (iv) Comic books\" (9-10). A single sheet in a codex is a leaf, and each side of a leaf is a page.\n\nAlthough in ordinary academic parlance a monograph is understood to be a specialist academic work, rather than a reference work on a single scholarly subject, in library and information science \"monograph\" denotes more broadly any non-serial publication complete in one volume (book) or a finite number of volumes (even a novel like Proust's seven-volume \"In Search of Lost Time\"), in contrast to serial publications like a magazine, journal, or newspaper. An avid reader or collector of books or a book lover is a bibliophile or colloquially, \"bookworm\". A shop where books are bought and sold is a bookshop or bookstore. Books are also sold elsewhere. Books can also be borrowed from libraries. Google has estimated that as of 2010, approximately 130,000,000 distinct titles had been published. In some wealthier nations, the sale of printed books has decreased because of the use of e-books, though sales of e-books declined in the first half of 2015.\n\nThe word book comes from Old English \"bōc\", which in turn comes from the Germanic root \"*bōk-\", cognate to \"beech\". Similarly, in Slavic languages (for example, Russian, Bulgarian, Macedonian) \"буква\" (bukva—\"letter\") is cognate with \"beech\". In Russian and in Serbian and Macedonian, the word \"букварь\" (bukvar') or \"буквар\" (bukvar) refers specifically to a primary school textbook that helps young children master the techniques of reading and writing.\nIt is thus conjectured that the earliest Indo-European writings may have been carved on beech wood. Similarly, the Latin word \"codex\", meaning a book in the modern sense (bound and with separate leaves), originally meant \"block of wood\".\n\nWhen writing systems were created in ancient civilizations, a variety of objects, such as stone, clay, tree bark, metal sheets, and bones, were used for writing; these are studied in epigraphy.\n\nA tablet is a physically robust writing medium, suitable for casual transport and writing. Clay tablets were flattened and mostly dry pieces of clay that could be easily carried, and impressed with a stylus. They were used as a writing medium, especially for writing in cuneiform, throughout the Bronze Age and well into the Iron Age. Wax tablets were pieces of wood covered in a thick enough coating of wax to record the impressions of a stylus. They were the normal writing material in schools, in accounting, and for taking notes. They had the advantage of being reusable: the wax could be melted, and reformed into a blank.\n\nThe custom of binding several wax tablets together (Roman \"pugillares\") is a possible precursor of modern bound (codex) books. The etymology of the word \"codex\" (block of wood) also suggests that it may have developed from wooden wax tablets.\n\nScrolls can be made from papyrus, a thick paper-like material made by weaving the stems of the papyrus plant, then pounding the woven sheet with a hammer-like tool until it is flattened. Papyrus was used for writing in Ancient Egypt, perhaps as early as the First Dynasty, although the first evidence is from the account books of King Nefertiti Kakai of the Fifth Dynasty (about 2400 BC). Papyrus sheets were glued together to form a scroll. Tree bark such as lime and other materials were also used.\n\nAccording to Herodotus (History 5:58), the Phoenicians brought writing and papyrus to Greece around the 10th or 9th century BC. The Greek word for papyrus as writing material (\"biblion\") and book (\"biblos\") come from the Phoenician port town Byblos, through which papyrus was exported to Greece. From Greek we also derive the word tome (), which originally meant a slice or piece and from there began to denote \"a roll of papyrus\". \"Tomus\" was used by the Latins with exactly the same meaning as \"volumen\" (see also below the explanation by Isidore of Seville).\n\nWhether made from papyrus, parchment, or paper, scrolls were the dominant form of book in the Hellenistic, Roman, Chinese, Hebrew, and Macedonian cultures. The more modern codex book format form took over the Roman world by late antiquity, but the scroll format persisted much longer in Asia.\n\nIsidore of Seville (d. 636) explained the then-current relation between codex, book and scroll in his Etymologiae (VI.13): \"A codex is composed of many books; a book is of one scroll. It is called codex by way of metaphor from the trunks (\"codex\") of trees or vines, as if it were a wooden stock, because it contains in itself a multitude of books, as it were of branches.\" Modern usage differs.\n\nA codex (in modern usage) is the first information repository that modern people would recognize as a \"book\": leaves of uniform size bound in some manner along one edge, and typically held between two covers made of some more robust material. The first written mention of the codex as a form of book is from Martial, in his Apophoreta at the end of the first century, where he praises its compactness. However, the codex never gained much popularity in the pagan Hellenistic world, and only within the Christian community did it gain widespread use. This change happened gradually during the 3rd and 4th centuries, and the reasons for adopting the codex form of the book are several: the format is more economical, as both sides of the writing material can be used; and it is portable, searchable, and easy to conceal. A book is much easier to read, to find a page that you want, and to flip through. A scroll is more awkward to use. The Christian authors may also have wanted to distinguish their writings from the pagan and Judaic texts written on scrolls. In addition, some metal books were made, that required smaller pages of metal, instead of an impossibly long, unbending scroll of metal. A book can also be easily stored in more compact places, or side by side in a tight library or shelf space.\n\nThe fall of the Roman Empire in the 5th century AD saw the decline of the culture of ancient Rome. Papyrus became difficult to obtain due to lack of contact with Egypt, and parchment, which had been used for centuries, became the main writing material. Parchment is a material made from processed animal skin and used—mainly in the past—for writing on.\nParchment is most commonly made of calfskin, sheepskin, or goatskin. It was historically used for writing documents, notes, or the pages of a book. Parchment is limed, scraped and dried under tension. It is not tanned, and is thus different from leather. This makes it more suitable for writing on, but leaves it very reactive to changes in relative humidity and makes it revert to rawhide if overly wet.\n\nMonasteries carried on the Latin writing tradition in the Western Roman Empire. Cassiodorus, in the monastery of Vivarium (established around 540), stressed the importance of copying texts. St. Benedict of Nursia, in his \"Rule of Saint Benedict\" (completed around the middle of the 6th century) later also promoted reading. The \"Rule of Saint Benedict\" (Ch. ), which set aside certain times for reading, greatly influenced the monastic culture of the Middle Ages and is one of the reasons why the clergy were the predominant readers of books. The tradition and style of the Roman Empire still dominated, but slowly the peculiar medieval book culture emerged.\nBefore the invention and adoption of the printing press, almost all books were copied by hand, which made books expensive and comparatively rare. Smaller monasteries usually had only a few dozen books, medium-sized perhaps a few hundred. By the 9th century, larger collections held around 500 volumes and even at the end of the Middle Ages, the papal library in Avignon and Paris library of the Sorbonne held only around 2,000 volumes.\n\nThe \"scriptorium\" of the monastery was usually located over the chapter house. Artificial light was forbidden for fear it may damage the manuscripts. There were five types of scribes:\nThe bookmaking process was long and laborious. The parchment had to be prepared, then the unbound pages were planned and ruled with a blunt tool or lead, after which the text was written by the scribe, who usually left blank areas for illustration and rubrication. Finally, the book was bound by the bookbinder.\nDifferent types of ink were known in antiquity, usually prepared from soot and gum, and later also from gall nuts and iron vitriol. This gave writing a brownish black color, but black or brown were not the only colors used. There are texts written in red or even gold, and different colors were used for illumination. For very luxurious manuscripts the whole parchment was colored purple, and the text was written on it with gold or silver (for example, Codex Argenteus).\n\nIrish monks introduced spacing between words in the 7th century. This facilitated reading, as these monks tended to be less familiar with Latin. However, the use of spaces between words did not become commonplace before the 12th century. It has been argued that the use of spacing between words shows the transition from semi-vocalized reading into silent reading.\n\nThe first books used parchment or vellum (calfskin) for the pages. The book covers were made of wood and covered with leather. Because dried parchment tends to assume the form it had before processing, the books were fitted with clasps or straps. During the later Middle Ages, when public libraries appeared, up to the 18th century, books were often chained to a bookshelf or a desk to prevent theft. These chained books are called \"libri catenati\".\n\nAt first, books were copied mostly in monasteries, one at a time. With the rise of universities in the 13th century, the Manuscript culture of the time led to an increase in the demand for books, and a new system for copying books appeared. The books were divided into unbound leaves (\"pecia\"), which were lent out to different copyists, so the speed of book production was considerably increased. The system was maintained by secular stationers guilds, which produced both religious and non-religious material.\n\nJudaism has kept the art of the scribe alive up to the present. According to Jewish tradition, the Torah scroll placed in a synagogue must be written by hand on parchment and a printed book would not do, though the congregation may use printed prayer books and printed copies of the Scriptures are used for study outside the synagogue. A sofer \"scribe\" is a highly respected member of any observant Jewish community.\n\nPeople of various religious (Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians, Muslims) and ethnic backgrounds (Syriac, Coptic, Persian, Arab etc.) in the Middle East also produced and bound books in the Islamic Golden Age (mid 8th century to 1258), developing advanced techniques in Islamic calligraphy, miniatures and bookbinding. A number of cities in the medieval Islamic world had book production centers and book markets. Yaqubi (d. 897) says that in his time Baghdad had over a hundred booksellers. Book shops were often situated around the town's principal mosque as in Marrakesh, Morocco, that has a street named \"Kutubiyyin\" or book sellers in English and the famous Koutoubia Mosque is named so because of its location in this street.\n\nThe medieval Muslim world also used a method of reproducing reliable copies of a book in large quantities known as check reading, in contrast to the traditional method of a single scribe producing only a single copy of a single manuscript. In the check reading method, only \"authors could authorize copies, and this was done in public sessions in which the copyist read the copy aloud in the presence of the author, who then certified it as accurate.\" With this check-reading system, \"an author might produce a dozen or more copies from a single reading,\" and with two or more readings, \"more than one hundred copies of a single book could easily be produced.\" By using as writing material the relatively cheap paper instead of parchment or papyrus the Muslims, in the words of Pedersen \"accomplished a feat of crucial significance not only to the history of the Islamic book, but also to the whole world of books\".\n\nIn woodblock printing, a relief image of an entire page was carved into blocks of wood, inked, and used to print copies of that page. This method originated in China, in the Han dynasty (before 220 AD), as a method of printing on textiles and later paper, and was widely used throughout East Asia. The oldest dated book printed by this method is \"The Diamond Sutra\" (868 AD).The method (called \"Woodcut\" when used in art) arrived in Europe in the early 14th century. Books (known as block-books), as well as playing-cards and religious pictures, began to be produced by this method. Creating an entire book was a painstaking process, requiring a hand-carved block for each page; and the wood blocks tended to crack, if stored for long. The monks or people who wrote them were paid highly.\n\nThe Chinese inventor Bi Sheng made movable type of earthenware c. 1045, but there are no known surviving examples of his printing. Around 1450, in what is commonly regarded as an independent invention, Johannes Gutenberg invented movable type in Europe, along with innovations in casting the type based on a matrix and hand mould. This invention gradually made books less expensive to produce, and more widely available.\n\nEarly printed books, single sheets and images which were created before 1501 in Europe are known as incunables or \"incunabula\". \"A man born in 1453, the year of the fall of Constantinople, could look back from his fiftieth year on a lifetime in which about eight million books had been printed, more perhaps than all the scribes of Europe had produced since Constantine founded his city in AD 330.\"\n\nSteam-powered printing presses became popular in the early 19th century. These machines could print 1,100 sheets per hour, but workers could only set 2,000 letters per hour. Monotype and linotype typesetting machines were introduced in the late 19th century. They could set more than 6,000 letters per hour and an entire line of type at once. There have been numerous improvements in the printing press. As well, the conditions for freedom of the press have been improved through the gradual relaxation of restrictive censorship laws. See also intellectual property, public domain, copyright. In mid-20th century, European book production had risen to over 200,000 titles per year.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, libraries have faced an ever-increasing rate of publishing, sometimes called an information explosion. The advent of electronic publishing and the internet means that much new information is not printed in paper books, but is made available online through a digital library, on CD-ROM, in the form of e-books or other online media. An on-line book is an e-book that is available online through the internet. Though many books are produced digitally, most digital versions are not available to the public, and there is no decline in the rate of paper publishing. There is an effort, however, to convert books that are in the public domain into a digital medium for unlimited redistribution and infinite availability. This effort is spearheaded by Project Gutenberg combined with Distributed Proofreaders. There have also been new developments in the process of publishing books. Technologies such as POD or \"print on demand\", which make it possible to print as few as one book at a time, have made self-publishing (and vanity publishing) much easier and more affordable. On-demand publishing has allowed publishers, by avoiding the high costs of warehousing, to keep low-selling books in print rather than declaring them out of print.\n\nThe methods used for the printing and binding of books continued fundamentally unchanged from the 15th century into the early 20th century. While there was more mechanization, a book printer in 1900 had much in common with Gutenberg. Gutenberg's invention was the use of movable metal types, assembled into words, lines, and pages and then printed by letterpress to create multiple copies. Modern paper books are printed on papers designed specifically for printed books. Traditionally, book papers are off-white or low-white papers (easier to read), are opaque to minimise the show-through of text from one side of the page to the other and are (usually) made to tighter caliper or thickness specifications, particularly for case-bound books. Different paper qualities are used depending on the type of book: Machine finished coated papers, woodfree uncoated papers, coated fine papers and special fine papers are common paper grades.\n\nToday, the majority of books are printed by offset lithography. When a book is printed, the pages are laid out on the plate so that after the printed sheet is folded the pages will be in the correct sequence. Books tend to be manufactured nowadays in a few standard sizes. The sizes of books are usually specified as \"trim size\": the size of the page after the sheet has been folded and trimmed. The standard sizes result from sheet sizes (therefore machine sizes) which became popular 200 or 300 years ago, and have come to dominate the industry. British conventions in this regard prevail throughout the English-speaking world, except for the USA. The European book manufacturing industry works to a completely different set of standards.\n\nModern bound books are organized according to a particular format called the book's \"layout\". Although there is great variation in layout, modern books tend to adhere to as set of rules with regard to what the parts of the layout are and what their content usually includes. A basic layout will include a \"front cover\", a \"back cover\", and the book's content which is called its \"body copy\" or \"content pages\". The front cover often bears the book's title (and subtitle, if any) and the name of its author or editor(s). The \"inside front cover\" page is usually left blank in both hardcover and paperback books. The next section, if present, is the book's \"front matter\", which includes all textual material after the front cover but not part of the book's content— such things as a forward, a dedication, and a table of contents as well as publisher data such as the book's edition or printing number and place of publication. Between the body copy and the back cover goes the \"end matter\" which would include any indices, sets of tables, or diagrams, glossaries, or lists of cited works (though an edited book with multiple contributing authors usually places cited works at the end of each authored chapter). The \"inside back cover\" page, like that inside the front cover, is usually blank. The \"back cover\" itself is the usual place for the book's ISBN, and maybe a photograph of the author(s)/ editor(s), perhaps with a short introduction to them. Also here often appear plot summaries, barcodes, and excerpted reviews of the book.\n\nSome books, particularly those with shorter runs (i.e. fewer copies) will be printed on sheet-fed offset presses, but most books are now printed on web presses, which are fed by a continuous roll of paper, and can consequently print more copies in a shorter time. As the production line circulates, a complete \"book\" is collected together in one stack, next to another, and another A web press carries out the folding itself, delivering bundles of \"signatures\" (sections) ready to go into the gathering line. Note that the pages of a book are printed two at a time, not as one complete book. Excess numbers are printed to make up for any spoilage due to make-readies or test pages to assure final print quality.\n\nA \"make-ready\" is the preparatory work carried out by the pressmen to get the printing press up to the required quality of impression. Included in make-ready is the time taken to mount the plate onto the machine, clean up any mess from the previous job, and get the press up to speed. As soon as the pressman decides that the printing is correct, all the make-ready sheets will be discarded, and the press will start making books. Similar make readies take place in the folding and binding areas, each involving spoilage of paper.\n\nAfter the signatures are folded and gathered, they move into the bindery. In the middle of last century there were still many trade binders – stand-alone binding companies which did no printing, specializing in binding alone. At that time, because of the dominance of letterpress printing, typesetting and printing took place in one location, and binding in a different factory. When type was all metal, a typical book's worth of type would be bulky, fragile and heavy. The less it was moved in this condition the better: so printing would be carried out in the same location as the typesetting. Printed sheets on the other hand could easily be moved. Now, because of increasing computerization of preparing a book for the printer, the typesetting part of the job has flowed upstream, where it is done either by separately contracting companies working for the publisher, by the publishers themselves, or even by the authors. Mergers in the book manufacturing industry mean that it is now unusual to find a bindery which is not also involved in book printing (and vice versa).\n\nIf the book is a hardback its path through the bindery will involve more points of activity than if it is a paperback. Unsewn binding, is now increasingly common. The signatures of a book can also be held together by \"Smyth sewing\" using needles, \"McCain sewing\", using drilled holes often used in schoolbook binding, or \"notch binding\", where gashes about an inch long are made at intervals through the fold in the spine of each signature. The rest of the binding process is similar in all instances. Sewn and notch bound books can be bound as either hardbacks or paperbacks.\n\n\"Making cases\" happens off-line and prior to the book's arrival at the binding line. In the most basic case-making, two pieces of cardboard are placed onto a glued piece of cloth with a space between them into which is glued a thinner board cut to the width of the spine of the book. The overlapping edges of the cloth (about 5/8\" all round) are folded over the boards, and pressed down to adhere. After case-making the stack of cases will go to the foil stamping area for adding decorations and type.\n\nRecent developments in book manufacturing include the development of digital printing. Book pages are printed, in much the same way as an office copier works, using toner rather than ink. Each book is printed in one pass, not as separate signatures. Digital printing has permitted the manufacture of much smaller quantities than offset, in part because of the absence of make readies and of spoilage. One might think of a web press as printing quantities over 2000, quantities from 250 to 2000 being printed on sheet-fed presses, and digital presses doing quantities below 250. These numbers are of course only approximate and will vary from supplier to supplier, and from book to book depending on its characteristics. Digital printing has opened up the possibility of print-on-demand, where no books are printed until after an order is received from a customer.\n\nIn the 2000s, due to the rise in availability of affordable handheld computing devices, the opportunity to share texts through electronic means became an appealing option for media publishers. Thus, the \"e-book\" was made. The term e-book is a contraction of \"electronic book\"; it refers to a book-length publication in digital form. An e-book is usually made available through the internet, but also on CD-ROM and other forms. E-Books may be read either via a computing device with an LED display such as a traditional computer, a smartphone or a tablet computer; or by means of a portable e-ink display device known as an e-book reader, such as the Sony Reader, Barnes & Noble Nook, Kobo eReader, or the Amazon Kindle. E-book readers attempt to mimic the experience of reading a print book by using this technology, since the displays on e-book readers are much less reflective.\n\nBook design is the art of incorporating the content, style, format, design, and sequence of the various components of a book into a coherent whole. In the words of Jan Tschichold, book design \"though largely forgotten today, methods and rules upon which it is impossible to improve have been developed over centuries. To produce perfect books these rules have to be brought back to life and applied.\" Richard Hendel describes book design as \"an arcane subject\" and refers to the need for a context to understand what that means. Many different creators can contribute to book design, including graphic designers, artists and editors.\n\nThe size of a modern book is based on the printing area of a common flatbed press. The pages of type were arranged and clamped in a frame, so that when printed on a sheet of paper the full size of the press, the pages would be right side up and in order when the sheet was folded, and the folded edges trimmed.\n\nThe most common book sizes are:\n\nSizes smaller than 16mo are:\n\nSmall books can be called \"booklets\".\n\nSizes larger than quarto are:\n\nThe largest extant medieval manuscript in the world is Codex Gigas 92 × 50 × 22 cm. The world's largest book is made of stone and is in Kuthodaw Pagoda (Burma).\n\nA common separation by content are fiction and non-fiction books. This simple separation can be found in most collections, libraries, and bookstores.\n\nMany of the books published today are fiction, meaning that they are in-part or completely untrue. Historically, paper production was considered too expensive to be used for entertainment. An increase in global literacy and print technology led to the increased publication of books for the purpose of entertainment, and allegorical social commentary. Most fiction is additionally categorized by genre.\n\nThe novel is the most common form of fiction book. Novels are stories that typically feature a plot, setting, themes and characters. Stories and narrative are not restricted to any topic; a novel can be whimsical, serious or controversial. The novel has had a tremendous impact on entertainment and publishing markets. A novella is a term sometimes used for fiction prose typically between 17,500 and 40,000 words, and a novelette between 7,500 and 17,500. A short story may be any length up to 10,000 words, but these word lengths vary.\n\nComic books or graphic novels are books in which the story is illustrated. The characters and narrators use speech or thought bubbles to express verbal language.\n\nIn a library, a reference book is a general type of non-fiction book which provides information as opposed to telling a story, essay, commentary, or otherwise supporting a point of view. An almanac is a very general reference book, usually one-volume, with lists of data and information on many topics. An encyclopedia is a book or set of books designed to have more in-depth articles on many topics. A book listing words, their etymology, meanings, and other information is called a dictionary. A book which is a collection of maps is an atlas. A more specific reference book with tables or lists of data and information about a certain topic, often intended for professional use, is often called a handbook. Books which try to list references and abstracts in a certain broad area may be called an index, such as \"Engineering Index\", or abstracts such as chemical abstracts and biological abstracts.\nBooks with technical information on how to do something or how to use some equipment are called instruction manuals. Other popular how-to books include cookbooks and home improvement books.\n\nStudents typically store and carry textbooks and schoolbooks for study purposes. Elementary school pupils often use workbooks, which are published with spaces or blanks to be filled by them for study or homework. In US higher education, it is common for a student to take an exam using a blue book.\n\nThere is a large set of books that are made only to write private ideas, notes, and accounts. These books are rarely published and are typically destroyed or remain private. Notebooks are blank papers to be written in by the user. Students and writers commonly use them for taking notes. Scientists and other researchers use lab notebooks to record their notes. They often feature spiral coil bindings at the edge so that pages may easily be torn out.\n\nAddress books, phone books, and calendar/appointment books are commonly used on a daily basis for recording appointments, meetings and personal contact information.\n\nBooks for recording periodic entries by the user, such as daily information about a journey, are called logbooks or simply logs. A similar book for writing the owner's daily private personal events, information, and ideas is called a diary or personal journal.\n\nBusinesses use accounting books such as journals and ledgers to record financial data in a practice called bookkeeping.\n\nThere are several other types of books which are not commonly found under this system. Albums are books for holding a group of items belonging to a particular theme, such as a set of photographs, card collections, and memorabilia. One common example is stamp albums, which are used by many hobbyists to protect and organize their collections of postage stamps. Such albums are often made using removable plastic pages held inside in a ringed binder or other similar holder. Picture books are books for children with pictures on every page and less text (or even no text).\n\nHymnals are books with collections of musical hymns that can typically be found in churches. Prayerbooks or missals are books that contain written prayers and are commonly carried by monks, nuns, and other devoted followers or clergy.\n\nA leveled book collection is a set of books organized in levels of difficulty from the easy books appropriate for an emergent reader to longer more complex books adequate for advanced readers. Decodable readers or books are a specialized type of leveled books that use decodable text only including controlled lists of words, sentences and stories consistent with the letters and phonics that have been taught to the emergent reader. New sounds and letters are added to higher level decodable books, as the level of instruction progresses, allowing for higher levels of accuracy, comprehension and fluency.\n\nHardcover books have a stiff binding. Paperback books have cheaper, flexible covers which tend to be less durable. An alternative to paperback is the glossy cover, otherwise known as a dust cover, found on magazines, and comic books. Spiral-bound books are bound by spirals made of metal or plastic. Examples of spiral-bound books include teachers' manuals and puzzle books (crosswords, sudoku).\n\nPublishing is a process for producing pre-printed books, magazines, and newspapers for the reader/user to buy.\n\nPublishers may produce low-cost, pre-publication copies known as galleys or 'bound proofs' for promotional purposes, such as generating reviews in advance of publication. Galleys are usually made as cheaply as possible, since they are not intended for sale.\n\nPrivate or personal libraries made up of non-fiction and fiction books, (as opposed to the state or institutional records kept in archives) first appeared in classical Greece. In the ancient world, the maintaining of a library was usually (but not exclusively) the privilege of a wealthy individual. These libraries could have been either private or public, i.e. for people who were interested in using them. The difference from a modern public library lies in the fact that they were usually not funded from public sources. It is estimated that in the city of Rome at the end of the 3rd century there were around 30 public libraries. Public libraries also existed in other cities of the ancient Mediterranean region (for example, Library of Alexandria). Later, in the Middle Ages, monasteries and universities had also libraries that could be accessible to general public. Typically not the whole collection was available to public, the books could not be borrowed and often were chained to reading stands to prevent theft.\n\nThe beginning of modern public library begins around 15th century when individuals started to donate books to towns. The growth of a public library system in the United States started in the late 19th century and was much helped by donations from Andrew Carnegie. This reflected classes in a society: The poor or the middle class had to access most books through a public library or by other means while the rich could afford to have a private library built in their homes. In the United States the Boston Public Library 1852 \"Report of the Trustees\" established the justification for the public library as a tax-supported institution intended to extend educational opportunity and provide for general culture.\n\nThe advent of paperback books in the 20th century led to an explosion of popular publishing. Paperback books made owning books affordable for many people. Paperback books often included works from genres that had previously been published mostly in pulp magazines. As a result of the low cost of such books and the spread of bookstores filled with them (in addition to the creation of a smaller market of extremely cheap used paperbacks) owning a private library ceased to be a status symbol for the rich.\n\nIn library and booksellers' catalogues, it is common to include an abbreviation such as \"Crown 8vo\" to indicate the paper size from which the book is made.\n\nWhen rows of books are lined on a book holder, bookends are sometimes needed to keep them from slanting.\n\nDuring the 20th century, librarians were concerned about keeping track of the many books being added yearly to the Gutenberg Galaxy. Through a global society called the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), they devised a series of tools including the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD). Each book is specified by an International Standard Book Number, or ISBN, which is unique to every edition of every book produced by participating publishers, worldwide. It is managed by the ISBN Society. An ISBN has four parts: the first part is the country code, the second the publisher code, and the third the title code. The last part is a check digit, and can take values from 0–9 and X (10). The EAN Barcodes numbers for books are derived from the ISBN by prefixing 978, for Bookland, and calculating a new check digit.\n\nCommercial publishers in industrialized countries generally assign ISBNs to their books, so buyers may presume that the ISBN is part of a total international system, with no exceptions. However, many government publishers, in industrial as well as developing countries, do not participate fully in the ISBN system, and publish books which do not have ISBNs. A large or public collection requires a catalogue. Codes called \"call numbers\" relate the books to the catalogue, and determine their locations on the shelves. Call numbers are based on a Library classification system. The call number is placed on the spine of the book, normally a short distance before the bottom, and inside. Institutional or national standards, such as ANSI/NISO Z39.41 - 1997, establish the correct way to place information (such as the title, or the name of the author) on book spines, and on \"shelvable\" book-like objects, such as containers for DVDs, video tapes and software.\nOne of the earliest and most widely known systems of cataloguing books is the Dewey Decimal System. Another widely known system is the Library of Congress Classification system. Both systems are biased towards subjects which were well represented in US libraries when they were developed, and hence have problems handling new subjects, such as computing, or subjects relating to other cultures. Information about books and authors can be stored in databases like online general-interest book databases. Metadata, which means \"data about data\" is information about a book. Metadata about a book may include its title, ISBN or other classification number (see above), the names of contributors (author, editor, illustrator) and publisher, its date and size, the language of the text, its subject matter, etc.\n\n\nAside from the primary purpose of reading them, books are also used for other ends:\n\nOnce the book is published, it is put on the market by the distributors and the bookstores. Meanwhile, his promotion comes from various media reports. Book marketing is governed by the law in many states.\n\nIn recent years, the book had a second life in the form of reading aloud. This is called public readings of published works, with the assistance of professional readers (often known actors) and in close collaboration with writers, publishers, booksellers, librarians, leaders of the literary world and artists.\n\nMany individual or collective practices exist to increase the number of readers of a book. Among them:\n\nThis form of the book chain has hardly changed since the eighteenth century, and has not always been this way. Thus, the author has asserted gradually with time, and the copyright dates only from the nineteenth century. For many centuries, especially before the invention of printing, each freely copied out books that passed through his hands, adding if necessary his own comments. Similarly, bookseller and publisher jobs have emerged with the invention of printing, which made the book an industrial product, requiring structures of production and marketing.\n\nThe invention of the Internet, e-readers, tablets, and projects like Wikipedia and Gutenberg, are likely to strongly change the book industry in the years to come.\n\nPaper was first made in China as early as 200 BC, and reached Europe through Muslim territories. At first made of rags, the industrial revolution changed paper-making practices, allowing for paper to be made out of wood pulp. Papermaking in Europe began in the 11th century, although vellum was also common there as page material up until the beginning of the 16th century, vellum being the more expensive and durable option. Printers or publishers would often issue the same publication on both materials, to cater to more than one market.\n\nPaper made from wood pulp became popular in the early 20th century, because it was cheaper than linen or abaca cloth-based papers. Pulp-based paper made books less expensive to the general public. This paved the way for huge leaps in the rate of literacy in industrialised nations, and enabled the spread of information during the Second Industrial Revolution.\n\nPulp paper, however, contains acid which eventually destroys the paper from within. Earlier techniques for making paper used limestone rollers, which neutralized the acid in the pulp. Books printed between 1850 and 1950 are primarily at risk; more recent books are often printed on acid-free or alkaline paper. Libraries today have to consider mass deacidification of their older collections in order to prevent decay.\n\nStability of the climate is critical to the long-term preservation of paper and book material. Good air circulation is important to keep fluctuation in climate stable. The HVAC system should be up to date and functioning efficiently. Light is detrimental to collections. Therefore, care should be given to the collections by implementing light control. General housekeeping issues can be addressed, including pest control. In addition to these helpful solutions, a library must also make an effort to be prepared if a disaster occurs, one that they cannot control. Time and effort should be given to create a concise and effective disaster plan to counteract any damage incurred through \"acts of God\" therefore an emergency management plan should be in place.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37239367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37239367", "title": "Broad Avenue", "text": "Broad Avenue\n\nBroad Avenue is a street and arts district in Memphis, Tennessee, known for its transformation from a collection of vacant storefronts to a vibrant arts district in less than a decade.\n\nBroad Avenue was originally the main street of Binghampton, a small railroad town chartered in 1895. In 1919, the city was annexed by Memphis, and Broad Avenue gradually fell into disrepair. In the mid-2000s, various efforts were organized to bring the street back into use. From 2007 to 2012, the street became a vibrant arts district as local businesses began to occupy the then-vacant storefronts. For example, in 2010 a two-day \"demonstration\" was arranged in which the still vacant storefronts along Broad were temporarily filled with local vendors and stores in order to show what the street had the potential to become.\n\nIn May 2011, French artist Guillaume Alby painted a large 1,800-square-foot geometrically styled mural on the 2500 block of Broad Avenue. A series of other art projects followed. These included another mural on a warehouse wall facing the street and the lighting-up of the iconic watertower which identifies Broad Avenue, among many others.\n\nIt is also home to a bi-annual art walk, in which local artists display their wares along the street. The event is accompanied by free music and food from local restaurants and bakeries.\n\nBroad Avenue is currently the home of the Memphis Greenline (cycling path) headquarters, and was used as an early demonstration of proposed bike lanes for the city of Memphis. The demonstration, which proved to be a success (resulting in the permanent addition of bike lanes) was arranged by Livable Memphis. In June 2011, it was proposed as a connector for cyclists between Overton Park and Shelby Farms Park, two key locations in Memphis.\n\n"}
{"id": "57666526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57666526", "title": "C++/WinRT", "text": "C++/WinRT\n\nC++/WinRT is the officially supported, modern C++ language projection for Microsoft's Windows Runtime platform, designed to provide you with first-class access to the modern Windows API. The C++/WinRT language projection is \"not\" an extension to the C++ language; rather, it's implemented as an entirely standard modern ISO C++17 header-file-based library. With C++/WinRT, you can author and consume Windows Runtime APIs using any standards-compliant C++17 compiler.\n\nC++/WinRT ships as part of the Microsoft Windows SDK. It was introduced in version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803) of the SDK. There is also Microsoft Visual Studio support for C++/WinRT, by means of project and item templates, as well as MSBuild properties and targets. Visual Studio support is provided in the form of the C++/WinRT Visual Studio Extension (VSIX), which you can download and install from the Visual Studio Marketplace.\n\nC++/WinRT was originally released in 2015 by Kenny Kerr. Shortly afterward, the technology and Kerr's expertise were brought in-house to Microsoft. C++/WinRT is now Microsoft's recommended replacement for both the Windows Runtime C++ Template Library (WRL), and for C++/CX.\n\nMicrosoft's Windows Runtime is based on Component Object Model (COM) APIs, and it's designed to be accessed through \"language projections\". A language projection hides the COM details, and provides a more natural programming experience for a given language. For C++ developers, C++/WinRT is the officially supported, modern C++ language projection.\n\nAs of version 10.0.17134.0 (Windows 10, version 1803), the Microsoft Windows SDK contains a header-file-based standard C++ library for consuming first-party Windows APIs (that is, Windows Runtime APIs in Windows namespaces). C++/WinRT also ships with the codice_1 tool, which you can point at a Windows Runtime metadata (.winmd) file to generate a header-file-based standard C++ library that \"projects\" the APIs described in the metadata for consumption from C++/WinRT code. Windows Runtime metadata (.winmd) files provide a canonical way of describing a Windows Runtime API surface. By pointing the codice_1 tool at metadata, you can generate a library for use with any runtime class implemented in a second- or third-party Windows Runtime component, or implemented in your own application.\n\nWith C++/WinRT, you can also implement your own runtime classes using standard C++, without resorting to COM-style programming. For a runtime class, you describe your types in a MIDL file (.idl), and from that file the codice_3 and codice_1 tools generate your implementation boilerplate source code files for you, ready for you to add your implementation. You can alternatively just implement interfaces by deriving from a base class that's part of the C++/WinRT header library. These techniques employ the curiously recurring template pattern for convenient and performant function-calling via static dispatch. In general, C++/WinRT makes clever and efficient use of a host of modern ISO C++11 (and later) language features to the benefit of developer productivity and run-time performance. Features that were not available when C++/WinRT's predecessors (WRL and C++/CX) were designed.\n\nYou use standard C++ data types, algorithms, and keywords when you use C++/WinRT. The projection does have its own custom data types, but in most cases you don't need to learn them because they provide appropriate conversions to and from standard types. That way, you can continue to use the standard C++ language features that you're accustomed to using, and the source code that you already have. C++/WinRT makes it extremely easy to call Windows Runtime APIs in any C++ application, from Win32 to UWP.\n\nC++/WinRT performs better and produces smaller binaries than any other language option for the Windows Runtime. It even outperforms handwritten code using the application binary interface (ABI) directly. That's because the abstractions use modern C++ idioms that the Visual C++ compiler is designed to optimize. This includes magic statics, empty base classes, strlen elision, as well as many newer optimizations in the latest version of Microsoft Visual C++ targeted specifically at improving the performance of C++/WinRT.\n\nDesign and development of C++/WinRT was begun in 2014 by the then-independent software developer Kenny Kerr. At the time, the prevailing way for developers to call Windows Runtime APIs using C++ was with the C++/CX language projection. C++/CX adds non-standard extensions to the C++ language, such as the codice_5 and codice_6 (hat) notation inherited from C++/CLI. It hadn't been fully appreciated then that advances in ISO C++ language features meant that it had become possible to design a Windows Runtime language projection for pure standard C++, without extensions. \"There are a lot of very experienced C++ developers at Microsoft who have spent decades-long careers working with C++ and COM,\" Kerr says. \"I think it took someone who didn't realize that it was impossible to just try it anyway and show that it works.\"\n\n\"I had had some previous experience projecting COM APIs into modern C++, so I decided to see whether I could apply those same techniques to the Windows Runtime.\" One early challenge in developing C++/WinRT was managing the trade-offs that the Windows Runtime makes to support projections for JavaScript and managed .NET languages out of the box. The complexity in the way that generic collections work across language projections is another example of these design challenges, as was coming up with an efficient way for standard C++ to handle the Windows Runtime's interface-versioning model. \"It really pushed my understanding of C++ at that time, and it's since pushed the Microsoft Visual C++ compiler to more efficiently handle such techniques at this scale.\"\n\nThere is good reason for C++/WinRT's name to reference the Windows Runtime (WinRT), rather than the Universal Windows Platform (UWP). This is because you can call Windows Runtime APIs (and, therefore, you can benefit from C++/WinRT) in any C++ application, from Win32 to UWP.\n\n"}
{"id": "55811518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55811518", "title": "Candace Chong Mui Ngam", "text": "Candace Chong Mui Ngam\n\nCandace Chong Mui Ngam () is a Chinese playwright from Hong Kong who has written scripts for play such as The \"French Kiss (2005)\", \"Murder in San José (2009)\" and \"The Wild Boar (2012)\". She has won the Hong Kong Drama Award four times in the category of Best Script and in 2010 was given the title best drama artist by the Hong Kong Arts Development Council.\n\nChong was born in Hong Kong in 1976 and attended St. Paul's Co-educational College before deciding to study psychology at the Chinese University of Hong Kong. After graduating in 1999 she majored in play-writing at the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts and then traveled to London to complete her master's degree at Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nAfter completing her formal education, Chong joined the Chung Ying Theatre Company where she wrote her award-winning plays \"Alive in the Mortuary (2003)\", \"Shall We Go to Mars? (2005)\", \"French Kiss (2005)\", \"Murder in San José (2009)\" and \"The Wild Boar (2012)\". In 2011 she worked with American composer Huang Ruo to write a libretto for an opera about \"Dr. Sun Yat-sen\". The completed work premiered at the National Centre for the Performing Arts in Beijing and later was adapted worldwide after it was well received.\n"}
{"id": "32924850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32924850", "title": "Carnation (painting)", "text": "Carnation (painting)\n\nCarnation (Latin, caro, carnis, “flesh”), in painting, refers to the representation of color of flesh. It is also used in describing a painting or drawing to signify the undraped parts of a figure.\n\nThe use of carnation requires very attentive study and great skill in the painter. It varies with the sex of the individual, with the classes and countries to which the subjects belong, with the passions, the state of the health, etc. The cheeks are, in a healthy subject, of a lively red; the breast, neck and upper part of the arms of a soft white; the belly yellowish. At the extremities the color becomes colder, and at the points assumes a violet tint, on account of the transparency of the skin. All these shades require to be softly blended. Two faults in carnation are chiefly to be avoided: hardness, the fault of the masters of the 15th century, and too great weakness. Guido Reni not infrequently painted his flesh so that it appeared almost bloodless. The French school has gone farthest in this respect. The flesh of the followers of this school often looks like porcelain or wax. Titian and Rubens are unrivaled in their rendering of carnation.\n"}
{"id": "912397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912397", "title": "Ceremonial drum", "text": "Ceremonial drum\n\nCeremonial drums are used in a ritual context by indigenous peoples around the world, often accompanied by singing or chanting.\n\nIn the circumpolar regions the drums have been classified by traits such as the knob, frame design, size, membrane motifs, ornaments, etc. There are therefore two main groups of drums: those with internal and those with external knobs. Drums with internal knobs are found amongst the Tjuktjer in Asia and among North American Inuit. Drums with external knobs are more widespread and are divided into four types:\n\nThe historical Saami drum, sometimes termed rune drum, belonged to the South Siberian kind, Sajano-Yeniseic subtype. (Those are, however, very similar to the Sjoric subtypes.) The Sami word for drum is 'goavddis', 'goabdes ' or 'gievrie' and the Altaic term is 'komus'. The Sami drum-stick term is 'bállin'; the Altaic term is 'orba'. \n\n"}
{"id": "22507174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22507174", "title": "Concord watch", "text": "Concord watch\n\nConcord Watch Company is a Swiss luxury goods company that is part of the Movado group, which produces and distributes Movado, Ebel, Coach, and Hugo Boss-branded watches. Founded in 1908, Concord was purchased in 1970 by the North American Watch Company, which also distributed the Piaget and Corum lines of watches. From the late 1970s to the late 1980s, Concord produced what would become some of the most marketed and respected luxury quartz watches on the market. Concord watches became recognized in large cities as status symbols and were noted for their innovation and design. Flagship quartz models such as the Concord Centurion and Concord Delirium ranged from $2,000 to $20,000, surpassing the price of base automatic Rolex, Cartier and Omega wristwatches. By the 1990s, Concord watches fell out of style and grew obsolete amidst the rebranding of the company. While the brand still exists today, it never regained its market position nor visibility that it once had.\n\nFounded in 1908 in Biel, Switzerland, the brand was created to design watches with the American market in mind. Concord has made several innovations in its history, such as being one of the first “private label” luxury watches to incorporate precious metals and gems in its watches. It was also the first company to make a wristwatch made of coins.\n\nIn 1915, Concord started working with companies like Van Cleef & Arpels, Tiffany & Co. and Cartier (jeweler) on providing them with high quality watches made out of precious metals and gems. In 1942, President Truman gifted Concord watches to Stalin and Churchill during World War II peace talks, solidifying their position as a leading luxury watch.\n\nIn 1970, Concord was purchased by the North American Watch Company. While the company struggled initially, it transitioned into a luxury quartz watch company, and during the quartz crisis it attained a large market share despite other competitors like Rolex. Throughout the 1980s, Concord watches became some of the most recognizable watches on the American luxury watch market, seeing massive sales in luxury stores throughout the Americas. While the majority of Swiss watch makers were in financial trouble due to the quartz crisis Concord took advantage of the situation by producing some of the most expensive quartz watches on the market. By the early 1980s, the North American Watch Company had the largest advertising budget of any Swiss watch company, spending over $14 million annually to attract celebrity endorsements from Jimmy Connors, Bjorn Borg, Joe Montana, Tom Landry and Martha Graham in such expensive publications like the New York Magazine, Texas Monthly, Architectural Digest, Town and Country and Business Week while appearing on TV shows such as Miami Vice, Charlie's Angels, The Love Boat, Dynasty and Hill Street Blues. \n\nIn 1979, it had a major breakthrough with the invention of the Delirium Watch which was the thinnest watch ever made at the time at 1.98 mm thick. Subsequently, a Delirium 2 was released which was even thinner at 1.5 mm. Another notable watch was the Concord Centurion, an ultra-thin sports watch introduced in 1979 that bore a resemblance to the Piaget Polo, the latter billed as the most expensive mass-produced luxury watch.\n\nBy the 1990s, Concord watches began to fade as the quartz crisis came to a close and the bold Concord look fell out of favor. In addition the parent of Concord, the North American Watch Company sought to focus more on mid- to high-range watches suited to middle class Americans, as opposed to luxury watches for the select few. The company faced a setback when in 1996, the North American Watch Company rebranded as Movado, a mid range watch company that had been purchased in 1984 by the North American Watch Company. This robbed the company of their exclusive luxury watch branding. Further turmoil happened in 2004 when Movado purchased financially troubled luxury Swiss watch maker Ebel, causing Concord to be shunned in favor of their new acquisition.\n\nIn 2007, the company made a drastic change in its vision. It closed most of its existing dealerships as sluggish sales and lack of a specific market created a huge grey market that hurt the company’s reputation. The launch of the C1 was highly touted and targeted the ever-popular luxury sport market. The style and pricing were designed to compete with watches such as Panerai, Audemars Piguet and Hublot. With only a couple of hundred dealers worldwide Concord was hoping for a grand relaunch into the Luxury sector. In 2008, watches ranged from between $3,500 to $30,000 in pricing.\n\nIn 2008, Concord created two new C1 pieces. The C1 worldtimer and the C1 Gravity Tourbillion. The later won the prestigious “Grand Prix d’Horlogerie de Geneve” as “Best design of the year 2008”. Whether this success will lead to ultimate success remains to be seen.\n\nIn 2009, Alex Grinberg was appointed as the worldwide CEO of Concord.\n\nPre 1996\n1996-2007\n\n\n2007–Present\n\nMovado\nSwiss Made\n\n"}
{"id": "58969905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58969905", "title": "Console (heraldry)", "text": "Console (heraldry)\n\nA console in heraldry is a decorative frame or support surrounding a heraldic shield or escutcheon. \n\nThe term derives from the compound Latin verb \"consolor\" \"to alleviate, lighten\", from the verb \"solor\", \"to assuage, soothe, relieve, mitigate\", plus the preposition \"con/com/cum\", \"with\". It thus serves to add interest to and mitigate the harshness of the stark outline of the shield, were used primarily for decorative purposes, rather than for its original purpose of identifying a knight in battle. The term \"console\" in architecture is generally used for elements which provide support, such as corbels on a console table.\n"}
{"id": "55074799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55074799", "title": "Death in ancient Greek art", "text": "Death in ancient Greek art\n\nThe theme of death within ancient Greek art has continued from the Early Bronze Age all the way through to the Hellenistic period. The Greeks used architecture, pottery, and funerary objects as different mediums through which to portray death. These depictions include mythical deaths, deaths of historical figures, and commemorations of those who died in war. This page includes various examples of the different types of mediums in which death is presented in Greek art.\n\nGreek heroa were tombs dedicated to both mythological and actual heroes of the Ancient Greek world. These tombs contained the remains of the hero and acted as a place where citizens of the polis where the tomb was located could hold feasts as a hero cult in order to honor the hero. They were built in a variety of different styles, were located in many different polis across Greece, and their legacy was continued by the Romans.\n\nThe heroon at Nemea is an example of a hero shrine, the resting place of the late Ophletes and a place for Greeks to worship. The heroon was a way to memorialize the infant and transform his legacy from that of a mere mortal to that of a hero. Ophletes' death elevated him above the status of other humans and made him more divine, and thus his final resting place became a sacred space to Greeks. The ancient Greeks would use this space and the surrounding land to host the Nemean Games in Ophletes' honor, as well as practice magic and other cult activities.\n\nThe grave monument from Kallithea is an example of a funerary monument from the Hellenistic period. They were for wealthy people and families that served to remind the living of the power and wealth of the dead by exhibiting conspicuous consumption. This monument was for a non Greek family from Romania, who became prominent in Athens in the 300s. The grave monument had a podium, pedestal, a frieze, and a naiskos with statues of two family members and a slave inside. These grave monument largely disappeared in Attica after an austerity law that banned them.\n\nThe tombs at Xanthos, Lycia, are funerary architecture that display the cultural synthesis enacted by a Lycian Dynasty. The tombs at Xanthos primarily take the form of pillar tombs, which were composed of a stone burial chamber on top of a stone pillar. The decorative motifs surrounding many of the elevated burial chambers depicts Near Eastern imagery, with roots in Persia. However, the Lycian rulers employed Greek artisans to carve the relief sculptures, primarily in the Archaic style. Thus, the monumentalization of the dead rulers is accompanied by regionally-specific visual motifs that bring together both Greek and Near Eastern influences.\n\nBrasidas was a successful Spartan General who won a major battle in Amphipolis during the second Peloponnesian War. After Brasidas died, the people of Amphipolis monumentalized him by cremating him, placing his ashes in a silver ossuary with a gold wreath, and burying him in a cist grave within the city walls. Sparta also dedicated a cenotaph in his honor. His legacy was remembered and celebrated with these things and contributes to the theme of monumentalization of important Greek figures after death.\n\nThe Pelike of Odysseus and Elpenor is a jar from Attika in 440 B.C. It portrays Elpenor begging Odysseus to give him a proper burial. Elpenor had drunkenly fallen off the roof of a boat and his death went unnoticed which means he did not get his burial rights and could not proceed through his journey in the underworld. Hermes stands next to Odysseus watching over the scene as he a guide for the dead.\n\nThe Thanatos Painter is a lekythoi painter from Athens, Greece in the 5th century BCE. The lekythoi attributed to the Thanatos Painter are all white-ground that is specifically used in the funerary context. These lekythoi also had depiction of death on them and thanatos is the Greek word for death. They were used as grave markers and would hold special oil used for funerals.\n\nAnother example of pottery being used in funerary contexts is the Eleusis Amphora by the Polyphemos painter, which is a neck amphora that dates back to the Middle Protoattic (ca. 650-625 B.C.E.). The amphora's decoration reflects the pottery of the Orientalizing period (ca. 710-600 B.C.E.), a style in which human and animal figures depict mythological scenes. It was used as an urn, as it was found to contain the remains of a young boy.\n\nAncient Greek funerary vases were made to resemble vessels used for elite male drinking parties, called symposiums. Funerary vases were often painted with symposiums, or Greek tragedies that involved death. There are many types of funerary vases including amphorae, kraters, oinochoe, and kylix cups. Funerary scenes show us how the Greeks treated the deceased. Such ritualistic practices included laying out the body for mourners to see, called prothesis. An example of this was painted on the Dipylon amphora. Next, was the ekphora, which is the moving of the body to a cemetery, usually in a procession. If cremation was practiced, then the ashes of the deceased would be placed inside the funerary vase, and buried.\n\nThe Odysseus in the Underworld krater is a Lucanian kalyx-krater decorated in the red-figure style dating to dating to ca. 380 BC - ca. 360 BC. Side A of the krater depicts Homer's story of Odysseus's visit to the Underworld to consult the dead seer Teiresias. This meeting is known as a nekuomanteion or “consultation with the dead”. Side B depicts the judgment of Paris where Hermes asks Paris, the Trojan prince, to arbitrate the contest between Aphrodite, Hera, and Athena and determine who is the most beautiful.\n\nThe suicide of Ajax vase was made by Exekias during the Archaic Period. The scene depicts Ajax preparing for his suicide in black-figure on a neck amphora. Ajax is bent over his sword, which he is placing in the ground. There is a tree to one side of him and his suit of armor on the other side. This scene is unusual in Greek art because it depicts the moment right before the death, rather than the violence of the actual death.\n\nThe Dipylon krater from Athens displays representations of funerary rituals for death and burial. The prothesis was a public \"laying out\" of the deceased similar to a modern wake, and the ekphora was a transportation of the body to the grave for burial. These rituals coincided with intense grief and extravagance, as those closest to the deceased attempted to mourn and celebrate his death.\n\nDepictions of the death of Iphigenia are mostly on pottery. She was a young girl who was to be the sacrifice for Agamemnon's mistake. Pottery depictions of this mythological story are of two different versions. One where she dies, and the other is where her body is replaced with the corpse of an animal by Artemis, who saves her. The pottery depictions are mostly by the black-figure and red-figure techniques. They are also mostly amphoras and kraters. In my page, I wanted to include depictions of Iphigenia from all artistic aspects, not only pottery. Mosaic and plays have been made for Iphigenia.\n\nThe stelai which mark the burials in Grave Circles A and B in Mycenae demonstrate burial practices during the Late Bronze Age. Some of the stelai feature relief sculpture, including chariot scenes, hunting scenes, and spiral motifs. These scenes could potentially indicate a desire for display and conspicuous consumption and hint at the presence of warfare and social stratification at Mycenae.\n\nThe death masks of Mycenae are a collection of golden masks placed on male dead bodies entombed within circular grave sites located at the city of Mycenae. They are designed to represent the features of the deceased, immortalizing them after death. They also display the status of the deceased through conspicuous consumption, due to their valuable materials.\n\nAfter finding a phenomenal amount of gold grave goods at Grave Circles A and B at Mycenae, the location earned the nickname \"Golden Mycenae\". It was a successful and wealthy area during the Bronze Age and the families buried in the shaft graves there memorialized their status using gold grave goods. They also distinguished which graves were for men and which were for women using grave goods. Generally, the men were buried with gold inlaid weapons while the women had gold jewelry, and both boasted their family's wealth.\n\nThe hellenistic stelai from Demetrias used art styles and sculpting techniques from the Hellenistic period to commemorate the deceased. Marble and stone stele were decorated with full and diverse colors which were used to depict both scenes from life and scenes from myth. By looking at grave stele such as \"Aphrodeisia, Daughter of Theudotos,\" we can learn what life and art for Greeks during the hellenistic period was like.\n\n"}
{"id": "3167381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3167381", "title": "Diaconicon", "text": "Diaconicon\n\nThe diaconicon (; Slavonic: \"diakonik\") is, in Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic churches, the name given to a chamber on the south side of the central apse of the church, where the vestments, books, etc., that are used in the Divine Services of the church are kept (the sacred vessels are kept in the Prothesis, which is on the north side of the sanctuary).\n\nThe diaconicon contains the \"thalassidion\" (piscina), a sink that drains into an honorable place where liquids such as the water used to wash holy things may be poured, and where the clergy may wash their hands before serving the Divine Liturgy. The diaconicon will usually have cabinets or drawers where the vestments and church hangings (antependia) may be safely stored. Here will also be kept the reserved charcoal, and a place for heating the \"zeon\" (boiling water that is poured into the chalice before Communion). Towels and other necessary items will be kept here also.\n\nOnly bishops or priests may sit in the sanctuary; however, deacons and altar servers may sit in the diaconicon when they are not needed for the service. Because the diaconicon is located behind the Iconostasis it is considered to be a holy place, and only those who have a specific liturgical duty to perform should go in, and any regulations pertaining to entry into the sanctuary apply here as well.\n\nDuring the reign of Justin II (565–574), owing to a change in the liturgy, the Diaconicon and Prothesis came to be located in separate apses at the east end of the Sanctuary. Before that time there was only one apse.\n\nIn the churches in central Syria of slightly earlier date, the diaconicon is rectangular, the side apses at Kalat-Seman having been added at a later date.\n\nIt can also refer to the liturgical book specifying the functions of the deacon.\n\n"}
{"id": "15668491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15668491", "title": "Early Modern literature", "text": "Early Modern literature\n\nThe history of literature of the Early Modern period (16th, 17th and partly 18th century literature), or Early Modern literature, succeeds Medieval literature, and in Europe in particular Renaissance literature.\n\nIn Europe, the Early Modern period lasts roughly from 1550 to 1750, spanning the Baroque period and ending with the Age of Enlightenment and the wars of the French Revolution. The Early Modern period in Persia corresponds to the rule of the Safavid dynasty. In Japan, the \"Early Modern period\" (Edo period) is taken to last down to 1868 (the beginning of Industrialization during the Meiji period). In India, the Mughal era lasts until the establishment of the British Raj in 1857. The Ottoman Empire underwent various attempts of modernization from 1828 (Tanzimat).\n\nChinese literature of the Qing dynasty remains mostly unaffected by European influence, and effects of modernization that would lead up to the New Culture Movement became apparent only from the Late Qing period in the 1890s.\n\nA new spirit of science and investigation in Europe was part of a general upheaval in human understanding, which began with the discovery of the New world in 1492 and continues through the subsequent centuries, even up to the present day.\n\nThe form of writing now commonplace across the world—the novel—originated from the early modern period and grew in popularity in the next century. Before the modern novel became established as a form there first had to be a transitional stage when \"novelty\" began to appear in the style of the epic poem.\n\nPlays for entertainment (as opposed to religious enlightenment) returned to Europe's stages in the early modern period. William Shakespeare is the most notable of the early modern playwrighters, but numerous others made important contributions, including Pierre Corneille, Molière, Jean Racine, Pedro Calderón de la Barca, Lope de Vega and Christopher Marlowe. From the 16th to the 18th century commedia dell'arte performers improvised in the streets of Italy and France. Some Commedia dell'arte plays were written down. Both the written plays and the improvisation were influential upon literature of the time, particularly upon the work of Molière. Shakespeare drew upon the arts of jesters and strolling players in creating new style comedies. All the parts, even the female ones, were played by men (\"en travesti\") but that would change, first in France and then in England too, by the end of the 17th century.\n\nThe earliest work considered an opera in the sense the work is usually understood dates from around 1597. It is \"Dafne\", (now lost) written by Jacopo Peri for an elite circle of literate Florentine humanists who gathered as the \"Camerata\".\n\nMiguel de Cervantes's \"Don Quixote de la Mancha\" has been called \"the first novel\" by many literary scholars (or the first of the modern European novels). It was published in two parts. The first part was published in 1605 and the second in 1615. It might be viewed as a parody of \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" (and other examples of the chivalric romance), in which case the novel form would be the direct result of poking fun at a collection of heroic folk legends. This is fully in keeping with the spirit of the age of enlightenment which began from about this time and delighted in giving a satirical twist to the stories and ideas of the past. It is worth noting that this trend toward satirising previous writings was only made possible by the printing press. Without the invention of mass-produced copies of a book it would not be possible to assume the reader will have seen the earlier work and will thus understand the references within the text. In the 18th century Daniel Defoe and Jonathan Swift wrote famous novels.\n\nThe 16th century saw outstanding epic poems of Torquato Tasso and Luís de Camões. Later the most well-known poets were Juana Inés de la Cruz, John Milton and Alexander Pope. In turn Jean de La Fontaine and Charles Perrault are appreciated for their fables.\n\nThe two primary streams of Ottoman written literature are poetry and prose. Of the two, poetry—specifically, Divan poetry—was by far the dominant stream. Moreover, until the 19th century, Ottoman prose did not contain any examples of fiction; that is, there were no counterparts to, for instance, the European romance, short story, or novel (though analogous genres did, to some extent, exist in both the Turkish folk tradition and in Divan poetry).\n\nOttoman Divan poetry was a highly ritualized and symbolic art form. From the Persian poetry that largely inspired it, it inherited a wealth of symbols whose meanings and interrelationships—both of similitude (مراعات نظير \"mura'ât-i nazîr\" / تناسب\n\"tenâsüb\") and opposition (تضاد \"tezâd\")—were more or less prescribed.\n\nUntil the 19th century, Ottoman prose never managed to develop to the extent that contemporary Divan poetry did. A large part of the reason for this was that much prose was expected to adhere to the rules of \"sec\" (سجع, also transliterated as \"seci\"), or rhymed prose, a type of writing descended from the Arabic \"saj'\" and which prescribed that between each adjective and noun in a sentence, there must be a rhyme.\n\nNevertheless, there was a tradition of prose in the literature of the time. This tradition was exclusively nonfictional in nature—the fiction tradition was limited to narrative poetry.\n\nRegarding the tradition of Persian love poetry during the Safavid era, Persian historian Ehsan Yarshater notes, \"As a rule, the beloved is not a woman, but a young man. In the early centuries of Islam, the raids into Central Asia produced many young slaves. Slaves were also bought or received as gifts. They were made to serve as pages at court or in the households of the affluent, or as soldiers and bodyguards. Young men, slaves or not, also, served wine at banquets and receptions, and the more gifted among them could play music and maintain a cultivated conversation. It was love toward young pages, soldiers, or novices in trades and professions which was the subject of lyrical introductions to panegyrics from the beginning of Persian poetry, and of the ghazal.\"\n\nAfter the 15th century, the \"Indian style\" of Persian poetry (sometimes also called \"Isfahani\" or \"Safavi\" styles) took over. This style has its roots in the Timurid era and produced the likes of Amir Khosrow Dehlavi, and Bhai Nand Lal Goya\n\nClassical Sanskrit literature went into decline in the High Middle Ages, to the benefit of Middle Indic vernaculars such as Old Hindi, notably in use for Late Medieval Bhakti poetry. The Mughal era sees the development of various literary dialects such as \"Dakkhini\" or \"Urdu\", the latter showing heavy Persian influence.\nThe earliest examples of Khariboli can be seen in some of Kabir and Amir Khusro's lines. More developed forms of Khariboli can be seen in some mediocre literature produced in early 18th century. Examples are \"Chand Chhand Varnan Ki Mahima\" by Gangabhatt, \"Yogavashishtha\" by Ramprasad Niranjani, \"Gora-Badal ki katha\" by Jatmal, \"Mandovar ka varnan\" by Anonymous, a translation of Ravishenacharya's \"Jain Padmapuran\" by Daulatram (dated 1824).\n\n\nLiterature during the largely peaceful Edo Period, in large part to the rise of the working and middle classes in the new capital of Edo (modern Tokyo), developed forms of popular drama which would later evolve into kabuki.\nThe joruri and kabuki dramatist Chikamatsu Monzaemon became popular at the end of the 17th century. Matsuo Bashō wrote \"Oku no Hosomichi\" (奥の細道, 1702), a travel diary. Hokusai, perhaps Japan's most famous woodblock print artist, also illustrated fiction as well as his famous 36 Views of Mount Fuji.\n\nMany genres of literature made their début during the Edo Period, helped by a rising literacy rate among the growing population of townspeople, as well as the development of lending libraries. Although there was a minor Western influence trickling into the country from the Dutch settlement at Nagasaki, it was the importation of Chinese vernacular fiction that proved the greatest outside influence on the development of Early Modern Japanese fiction. Ihara Saikaku might be said to have given birth to the modern consciousness of the novel in Japan, mixing vernacular dialogue into his humorous and cautionary tales of the pleasure quarters. Jippensha Ikku wrote \"Tōkaidōchū Hizakurige\", which is a mix of travelogue and comedy. Tsuga Teisho, Takebe Ayatari, and Okajima Kanzan were instrumental in developing the \"yomihon\", which were historical romances almost entirely in prose, influenced by Chinese vernacular novels such as Three Kingdoms and \"Shui hu zhuan\". Two \"yomihon\" masterpieces were written by Ueda Akinari: \"Ugetsu monogatari\" and \"Harusame monogatari\".\n"}
{"id": "3878526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3878526", "title": "Emma Cons", "text": "Emma Cons\n\nEmma Cons (4 March 1838 – 24 July 1912) was a British social reformer, educationalist and theatre manager.\n\nBorn in St. Pancras, London, she trained as an artist and joined the Ladies' Co-operative Art Guild in London, run by Caroline Hill, mother of the future housing reformer and founder of the National Trust, Octavia Hill. As Cons's father Frederick Cons was suffering from ill health, she needed to work and the Guild helped her get work as an illuminator as well as restoring manuscripts for John Ruskin. Cons also tried working as a watch engraver, and as a stained glass designer but experienced harassment from men who resented a woman working amongst them.\n\nFrom 1864, Cons worked for Octavia Hill as a rent collector, starting work at Barrett's Court, Oxford Street. Later Cons moved to South London, and in 1879 she established the South London Dwellings Company around Surrey Lodge, Lambeth, near to Waterloo station.\n\nIn 1889, Cons became the first female alderman on the London County Council (LCC), working alongside the first elected women members Jane Cobden (elected for Bow and Bromley) and Lady Sandhurst (elected for Brixton). The elections were challenged by anti-suffragists, but as Cons had not been elected, she had been asked by the LCC Progressives to become an alderman, and it was difficult to challenge her position.\n\nWhen she voted, however, she became liable for a fine: De Souza v. Cobden, which reached the Court of Appeal in 1891, ruled Cobden and Cons could legally be members of the council but could not vote. After this, Cons' commitment to the cause of women's suffrage was energetic, and she served on the Committee for the Return of Women as Councillors, became Vice-President of the Women's Local Government Society, and Vice President of the Women's Liberal Federation.\n\nCons also helped found Swanley Horticultural College (which amalgamated with Wye College later part of Imperial College London, a part of University of London before closure in 2009), in 1892, the first such college for women, and she founded Morley College for working men and women, aided by money donated by Bristol based millionaire manufacturer and philanthropist, Samuel Morley.\n\nCons also founded the Working Girls Home, a hostel in Drury Lane, London, and she established various crèches and clinics for women including what was described as 'the Home for Feeble-Minded girls' at Bodmin.\n\nIn 1880, Emma Cons, re-opened what is now the Old Vic Theatre in Lambeth, south London, as the \"Royal Victoria Coffee and Music Hall\". It was \"a cheap and decent place of amusement on strict temperance lines\". Through this initiative, she brought the plays of William Shakespeare and also opera to working class people.\n\nIn 1882, Samuel Morley began to take an interest in the affairs of the theatre, and in 1884 he joined the executive committee. He contributed a large amount of money to the scheme, and his business advice was of value. Morley College developed from the lectures given at the Old Vic.\n\nIn 1896, Cons devoted her autumn holiday in Cyprus to trying to help refugee Armenians, who had fled from persecution in Turkey. In 1908, Cons became the first woman to speak at the Institute of Directors, on behalf of the South London Dwellings Company.\n\nEmma Cons died on 24 July 1912, of a cerebral haemorrhage, at Chippen's Bank, Hever, Kent, home of her friend, Ethel Everest.\n\nHer niece, Lilian Baylis (1874–1937), assisted in running the Old Vic. Her sister, Ellen Cons (1840–1920), was also closely associated with many philanthropic schemes, and was one of the governors of the Old Vic.\n\nPlaques honouring Emma Cons are displayed outside the Old Vic on the corner with Waterloo Road and in the basement area bar. Another round blue plaque was put up by the Greater London Council, on the street wall of 136 Seymour Place, Marylebone, where she lived and worked. Today, the building is WLM Seymour Place.\n\n"}
{"id": "917175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=917175", "title": "Flip book", "text": "Flip book\n\nA flip book or flick book is a book with a series of pictures that vary gradually from one page to the next, so that when the pages are turned rapidly, the pictures appear to animate by simulating motion or some other change. Flip books are often illustrated books for children, but may also be geared towards adults and employ a series of photographs rather than drawings. Flip books are not always separate books, but may appear as an added feature in ordinary books or magazines, often in the page corners. Software packages and Websites are also available that convert digital video files into custom-made flip books.\n\nRather than \"reading\" left to right, a viewer simply stares at the same location of the pictures in the flip book as the pages turn. The book must also be flipped with enough speed for the illusion to work, so the standard way to \"read\" a flip book is to hold the book with one hand and flip through its pages with the thumb of the other hand. The German word for flip book—\"Daumenkino\", literally \"thumb cinema\"—reflects this process.\n\nIt has sometimes been assumed that the relatively simple flip book has been around since long before the invention of the more complicated 19th century animation devices like the phenakistiscope (1832) and the zoetrope (1866), but no conclusive evidence has been found. There are some medieval illuminated books with sequential images, such as \"Sigenot\" (circa 1470). The illustrations in \"Sigenot\" are consistently framed and have short intervals between different phases of action, but the images can not produce the illusion of a fluent motion. The necessary notion of instances smaller than a second would not really develop before the 19th century. \n\nThe oldest known documentation of the flip book appeared in September 1868, when it was patented by John Barnes Linnett under the name \"kineograph\" (\"moving picture\"). They were the first form of animation to employ a linear sequence of images rather than circular (as in the older phenakistoscope). The German film pioneer, Max Skladanowsky, first exhibited his serial photographic images in flip book form in 1894, as he and his brother Emil did not develop their own film projector until the following year. In 1894, Herman Casler invented a mechanized form of flip book called the Mutoscope, which mounted the pages on a central rotating cylinder rather than binding them in a book. The mutoscope remained a popular attraction through the mid-twentieth century, appearing as coin-operated machines in penny arcades and amusement parks. In 1897, the English filmmaker Henry William Short marketed his \"Filoscope\", which was a flip book placed in a metal holder to facilitate flipping.\n\nFlip books are now largely considered a toy or novelty for children, and were once a common \"prize\" in cereal and Cracker Jack boxes. However, in addition to their role in the birth of cinema, they have also been an effective promotional tool since their creation for such decidedly adult products as automobiles and cigarettes. They continue to be used in marketing today, as well as in art and published photographic collections. Vintage flip books are popular among collectors, and especially rare ones from the late 19th to early 20th century have been known to fetch thousands of dollars in sales and auctions.\n\nSince 2007, Walt Disney Animation Studios has started its films with a production logo that initially evokes a flip book. It starts with a view of an empty page of paper, then as the pages start to turn, details are drawn in to reveal Mickey Mouse in \"Steamboat Willie\".\n\nThe first international flip book festival was held in 2004, by the Akademie Schloss Solitude in Stuttgart. Another international flip book festival was held in Linz, Austria in 2005.\n\nIn 2010 Hungary postal services released a flip book of stamps depicting a moving gömböc. The Israel Philatelic Federation released an \"Israeli Animation Stamp Booklet\" in November 2010 with 15 stamps designed by Mish to be animated when flipping the pages. It commemorated the 50th anniversary of ASIFA, the 25th anniversary of ASIFA Israel and the \"Flip Book 250th Anniversary\". \n\nThe Finnish passport design released in 2012 contains a flipbook of a walking moose.\n\n"}
{"id": "52722478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52722478", "title": "Fractal expressionism", "text": "Fractal expressionism\n\nThe term fractal expressionism was coined by physicist-artist Richard Taylor and co-authors to distinguish fractal art generated directly by artists from fractal art generated using mathematics and/or computers. Fractals are patterns that repeat at increasingly fine scales and are prevalent in natural scenery (examples include clouds, rivers, and mountains). Fractal expressionism implies a direct expression of nature's patterns in an art work.\n\nThe initial studies of fractal expressionism focused on the poured paintings by the American artist Jackson Pollock (1912-1956), whose work has traditionally been associated with the abstract expressionist movement. Pollock’s patterns had previously been referred to as “natural” and “organic”, inviting speculation by author John Briggs in 1992 that Pollock's work featured fractals. In 1997, Taylor built a pendulum device called the Pollockizer which painted fractal patterns bearing a similarity to Pollock’s work. Computer analysis of Pollock's work published by Taylor et al. in a 1999 Nature article found that Pollock's painted patterns have characteristics that match those displayed by nature's fractals (specifically, they demonstrate a statistical self-similarity quantified by a non-integer dimension over a magnification range of 1.5-2 orders of magnitude). This analysis supported clues (see below) that Pollock's patterns are fractal and reflect \"the fingerprint of nature\".\n\nTaylor noted several similarities between Pollock's painting style and the processes used by nature to construct its landscapes. For instance, he cites Pollock's propensity to revisit paintings that he had not adjusted in several weeks as being comparable to cyclic processes in nature, such as the seasons or the tides. Furthermore, Taylor observed several visual similarities between the patterns produced by nature and those produced by Pollock as he painted. He points out that Pollock abandoned the use of a traditional frame for his paintings, preferring instead to roll out his canvas on the floor; this, Taylor asserts, is more compatible with how nature works than traditional painting techniques because the patterns in nature's scenery are not artificially bounded.\n\nThe perceived similarities between the processes and patterns involved in Pollock's paintings and those of nature compelled Taylor to posit that the same \"basic trademark\" of nature's pattern construction also appears in Pollock's work. Since some natural fractals are generated by a process known as \"chaos\", including fractals in human physiology, Taylor believed that Pollock's painting process might also have been chaotic, and could therefore leave behind a fractal pattern. Taylor's hypothesis seems to be reflected in Pollock's statement \"I am nature\", which he made when asked if nature was a source of inspiration for his work. Furthermore, Pollock is also quoted as stating \"No chaos, damn it\", in response to a Time magazine article that referred to his paintings as \"chaotic\". However, chaos theory was not understood until after Pollock's death, so he could not have been referring to the chaotic systems in nature but rather its common usage to mean disorder. In the famous film footage of Hans Namuth, Pollock says his paintings are no accident, and that he was able to control the flow of paint onto the canvas.\n\nTaylor points to two aspects of Pollock's painting process that have the potential to introduce fractal patterns. The first is Pollock's motion as he moved around the canvas, which Taylor hypothesized followed a Levy flight, a type of chaotic motion that is known to leave behind a fractal pattern. More specifically, a number of studies have shown that the motions associated with human balance have fractal characteristics. The second source of chaos could be introduced through Pollock's pouring technique. Falling fluid has the capability of changing from a non-chaotic to a chaotic flow, meaning that Pollock could have introduced a chaotic flow of paint as he dripped it onto the canvas. Although the fractal characteristics of human balance and falling liquid are generated on Pollock's painting time and length scales, physicist Predrag Cvitanovic notes that it would be quite an artistic challenge to control them: such parameters \"are in no sense observable and measurable on the length-scales and time-scales dominated by chaotic dynamics\".\n\nSince Taylor's initial Pollock analysis in 1999, more than ten research groups have used various forms of fractal analysis to successfully quantify Pollock’s work. In addition to analyzing Pollock's work for fractal content, some groups such as that of computer scientist Bruce Gooch, have used computers to generate Pollock-like images by varying their fractal characteristics. Mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot (who invented the term fractal) and art theorist Francis O’Connor (the chief Pollock scholar) are well known advocates of fractal expressionism.\n\nFractal expressionism is related to fractal fluency because the latter provides an appealing motivation for why artists such as Pollock might aspire to Fractal Expressionism. Fractal fluency is a neuroscience model that proposes that, through exposure to nature’s fractal scenery, people’s visual systems have adapted to efficiently process fractals with ease. This adaptation occurs at many stages of the visual system, from the way people’s eyes move to which regions of the brain get activated. Fluency puts the viewer in a ‘comfort zone’ so inducing an aesthetic experience. Neuroscience experiments have shown that Pollock’s paintings induce the same positive physiological responses in the observer as nature’s fractals and mathematical fractals.\n\nIn light of fractal fluency and the associated aesthetics, other artists might be expected to display fractal expressionism. One year before Taylor’s publication, mathematician Richard Voss quantified Chinese art using fractal analysis. Subsequently, other groups have used computer analysis to identify fractal content in a number of Western and Eastern artists, most recently in Pollock’s colleague Willem De Kooning’s work.\n\nIn addition to the above analyzed works, symbolic representations of fractals can be found in cultures across the continents spanning several centuries, including Roman, Egyptian, Aztec, Incan and Mayan civilizations. They frequently predate patterns named after the mathematicians who subsequently developed their visual characteristics. For example, although von Koch is famous for developing The Koch Curve in 1904, a similar shape featuring repeating triangles was first used to depict waves in friezes by Hellenic artists (300 B.C.E.). In the 13th century, repetition of triangles in Cosmati Mosaics generated a shape later known in mathematics as The Sierpinski Triangle (named after Sierpinski’s 1915 pattern). Triangular repetitions are also found in the 12th century pulpit of The Ravello Cathedral in Italy. The lavish artwork within The Book of Kells (circa 800 C.E.) and the sculpted arabesques in The Jain Dilwara Temple in Mount Abu, India (1031 C.E.) also both reveal stunning examples of exact fractals. The artistic works of Leonardo da Vinci and Katsushika Hokusai serve as more recent examples from Europe and Asia, each reproducing the recurring patterns that they saw in nature. Da Vinci’s sketch of turbulence in water, The Deluge (1571–1518), was composed of small swirls within larger swirls of water. In The Great Wave off Kanagawa (1830–1833), Hokusai portrayed a wave crashing on a shore with small waves on top of a large wave. Other woodcuts from the same period also feature repeating patterns at several size scales: The Ghost of Kohada Koheiji shows fissures in a skull and The Falls At Mt. Kurokami features branching channels in a waterfall.\n\nVoss's 1998 study of Chinese art was the first demonstration of using fractal analysis to distinguish between the works of different artists. Following Taylor's 1999 Pollock publication, Art conservator Jim Coddington proposed that fractal analysis should be explored as a technique to help authenticate Pollock paintings. In 2005, Taylor and colleagues published a fractal analysis of 14 authentic and 37 imitation Pollocks suggesting that, when combined with other techniques, fractal analysis might be useful for authenticating Pollock's work. In the same year, The Pollock-Krasner Foundation requested a fractal analysis to be used for the first time in an authenticity dispute, The analysis identified “significant deviations from Pollock’s characteristics.” Taylor cautioned that the results should be “coupled with other important information such as provenance, connoisseurship and materials analysis.” Two years later, materials scientists showed that pigments on the paintings dated from after Pollock’s death.\nIn 2006, the use of fractals to authenticate Pollocks stirred controversy. This controversy was triggered by physicists Katherine Jones-Smith and Harsh Mathur who claimed that the fractal characteristics identified by Taylor et al. are also present in crude sketches made in Adobe Photoshop, and deliberately fraudulent poured paintings made by other artists Thus, according to Jones-Smith and Mathur, labeling Pollock's paintings as \"fractal\" is meaningless, because the same characteristics are found in other non-fractal images. However, Taylor's rebuttal published in Nature showed that Taylor's group's fractal analysis could distinguish between Pollock paintings and the crude sketches, and identified further limitations in Jones-Smith and Mathur's analysis.\n\nJones-Smith and Mathur raised a valid concern applicable to all forms of fractal expressionism: are art works too small for the painted patterns to repeat over sufficient magnifications to assume the visual characteristics of fractals? In the case of Pollock paintings, the largest range used by Taylor et al. to determine each fractal parameter in a Pollock painting is less than two orders of magnitude in magnification. Nature's fractals repeat over limited magnification ranges (typically just over one order of magnitude), prompting scientists to debate what range is required to reliably establish fractal behavior.<ref name=\"Ave/Man\">[Avnir, David, Ofer Biham, Daniel M. Lidar, and Ofer Malcai. \"Is the Geometry of Nature Fractal?\" Science 279.5347 (1998): 39-40. Print.]</ref> Mandelbrot refused to include a required magnification range in his definition of fractals and instead noted that it is the range necessary to generate the properties associated with fractal repetition. In the case of Pollock's work, this would be the magnification range necessary for the patterns to generate the fractal aesthetics. Neuroscience experiments have shown that this magnification range is less than two orders and that Pollock’s paintings do indeed induce the same physiological responses as nature’s fractals and mathematical fractals Mandelbrot concluded \"I do believe that Pollocks are fractal.\"\n\nAt the time of the controversy, Coddington summarized as follows: “Fractal geometry has begun to play an important role in the authentication of the work of Jackson Pollock. We believe such analyses are necessary for pushing the field forward.” The most recent results, In 2015, by computer scientist Lior Shamir showed that, when combined with other pattern parameters, fractal analysis can be used to distinguish between real and imitation Pollocks with 93% accuracy. He found that the fractal parameters were the most powerful contributors to the detection accuracy\n"}
{"id": "27867584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27867584", "title": "Frisian house", "text": "Frisian house\n\nThere are several types of Frisian houses in the Netherlands as well as in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "12576808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12576808", "title": "Futurama: Into the Wild Green Yonder", "text": "Futurama: Into the Wild Green Yonder\n\nFuturama: Into the Wild Green Yonder is a 2009 American direct-to-video adult animated science fiction comedy-adventure film serving as the fourth and final Futurama film. The film was written by Ken Keeler, based on a story by Keeler and David X. Cohen, and directed by Peter Avanzino. Guest stars include Phil Hendrie, Penn Jillette (credited with Teller), Snoop Dogg and Seth MacFarlane, who sings the theme song. In the movie, Leela becomes an outlaw when she and a group of ecologically-minded feminists attempt to save an asteroid of primitive life forms and the Violet Dwarf star from being destroyed, while Fry joins a secret society and attempts to stop a mysterious species known as the \"Dark Ones\" from destroying all life in the universe. The title itself is a reference to the U.S. Air Force Song, the main chorus of which describes reaching \"Into the wild blue yonder\".\n\nThe DVD and Blu-ray were released by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment on February 23, 2009, while the film itself premiered on February 6, 2009 at New York Comic Con. It made its broadcast premiere on Comedy Central on August 30, 2009. The film and its predecessors together comprise season five of \"Futurama\", with each film being separated into four episodes of the broadcast season. It won the 2009 Annie Award for Best Home Entertainment Production, and 20th Century Fox and Comedy Central cited sales of \"Into the Wild Green Yonder\" and the other \"Futurama\" direct-to-DVD movies as one reason Comedy Central decided to renew the \"Futurama\" television series in 2009.\n\nThe Planet Express crew visits Amy's parents, Leo and Inez, who are destroying the \"old\" Mars Vegas and constructing a more extravagant one. A group of eco-feminists (calling themselves \"eco-feministas\") led by Frida Waterfall protest the destruction of the environment, leading to an accident that leaves Frida's necklace lodged inside Fry's brain. The destruction upsets Leela, but Leo has bribed Professor Farnsworth to rubber stamp the project as environmentally friendly. Leela saves a Martian muck leech, the last of its species, from the site.\n\nIn New Mars Vegas, Fry starts to go mad when he cannot stop hearing the thoughts of everyone around him. He meets Hutch, a transient who advises Fry to wear a tin foil hat to keep others' thoughts out of his head. Hutch warns Fry never to reveal his powers and to beware the \"Dark Ones\".\n\nWhile golfing with the crew, Leo reveals plans to build the universe's largest miniature golf course, destroying 12% of the Milky Way in the process. Farnsworth and the crew survey the site and discover an asteroid in a violet dwarf star system teeming with primordial life. Despite this, Farnsworth approves Leo’s project. Disgusted, Leela joins the eco-feminists, who begin sabotaging the project.\nHutch introduces Fry to the \"Legion of Mad Fellows\", a secret society of tin-foil-hat-wearing telepaths led by the Number 9 man. No. 9 tells Fry a story of two species that worked together to survive, until one broke the cycle and caused an \"evolutionary arms race\", both species evolving to defeat the other. One became the extinct \"Encyclopods\" who evolved to preserve the DNA of endangered species so they could be restored should they become extinct. The other became the \"Dark Ones\", who want to destroy all life. Fry learns that the violet dwarf is the only surviving egg of the Encyclopods. Due to a resurgence in the life-giving force \"Chi\", the Encyclopod will soon be reborn. As Fry is immune to the Dark Ones' psionic powers he alone can save it from Leo Wong's plans to turn it into a golf course, and from the Dark Ones, who have evolved to the point that no one knows what they look like.\n\nTo end the sabotage, Leo enlists Zapp Brannigan and Kif Kroker, who in turn hire Bender to track down the eco-feministas. Fry infiltrates Leo's empire as a security guard. Amy is angered by her father's sexist jokes and joins Leela, while Bender bugs Fry's phone in case he communicates with Leela. Fry runs into Frida and has her take a message of support to Leela, but an unseen Dark One murders Frida.\n\nFarnsworth prepares to close Planet Express; with their delivery team missing they cannot continue. Leo Wong hires them to put up a fence around the construction site. Farnsworth cancels the closing and goes with Zoidberg and Hermes to do the job. They are captured by the eco-feminists, who commandeer the Planet Express ship. When the eco-feministas suspect Fry of murdering Frida, Fry and Leela arrange a rendezvous. They are ambushed by the \"Nimbus\", which was tipped off by Bender. The eco-feministas are sent to prison.\n\nAt a Legion meeting, No. 9 explains that Fry must stop the implosion of the violet dwarf and thwart the Dark One who is sure to be present. Though no one knows the Dark One's form, its mind cannot be read, allowing Fry to identify it. No. 9 gives Fry the Omega Device, which can temporarily disable the Dark One at close range.\n\nBender frees the eco-feministas from prison in order to uphold his record for most crimes committed at once. Hermes, Zoidberg, Scruffy, and a repentant Farnsworth rescue them.\n\nAt the ceremony, Fry cannot locate an unreadable mind; he concludes that he himself (having an unreadable mind) must be the Dark One. The eco-feministas disrupt the ceremony, but Fry convinces Leela to let him proceed. Fry activates the Omega Device, which creates a small dome around the two that appears to have no effect. Leela's leech falls to the ground and reveals itself as the final Dark One. The violet dwarf system forms a giant sperm and flies into the star, creating an Encyclopod embryo which quickly matures, taking the form of a giant manta ray-like creature. The Dark One kills Hutch, whose dying act is to pull Frida's necklace out of Fry's forehead, causing Fry to lose his telepathy. The Encyclopod kills the Dark One. No. 9 convinces the Encyclopod to preserve the Dark One's DNA, but Zoidberg eats the remains before it can. The Encyclopod preserves Hutch's DNA before leaving.\n\nZapp attempts to apprehend the escaped prisoners, but the crew of the Planet Express ship and the Eco-feminists escape along with Kif. Fry and Leela profess their love for each other as the \"Nimbus\" chases the Planet Express ship toward a wormhole, which the Professor warns could take them trillions of light years away. Everyone agrees to go for it. Fry and Leela kiss as the ship enters the wormhole.\n\nThe ending refers to the uncertain future of the show. The makers were not sure if the show would return to TV, so if it did not, it is implied that the ship was in fact taken trillions of light years away. The show was picked up by Comedy Central, and it is revealed in the next episode \"Rebirth\" that the wormhole sent the ship directly back to Earth.\n\n\nThe film draws upon several major and minor running themes of the \"Futurama\" series. As in previous environmentally-minded episodes such as \"The Problem with Popplers\", \"A Taste of Freedom\" and \"The Birdbot of Ice-Catraz\", the Waterfall family makes an appearance, with Frida Waterfall reappearing along with a new member, Hutch (identifying himself as Frida's brother by removing her jewelry from Fry's head as Hutch dies), and in keeping with tradition both Frida and Hutch Waterfall meet an untimely end. The Encyclopod's decision to preserve Hutch's DNA defines it as Hutch's successor and serves as a warning about the fragility of the existence of the human species. With dark matter now useless as fuel the Planet Express ship has been modified to run on whale oil, an alternative introduced in \"Bendin' in the Wind\".\n\nFry was originally frozen and brought to the future by Nibbler because a Nibblonian prophecy foresaw that he and his unique, Delta-wave-deficient mind (a consequence of him being his own grandfather) would be required to save the universe. In \"Yonder\" Fry is once again appointed for such a task (though by the Legion of Mad Fellows instead of the Nibblonians), due to his immunity from the Dark Ones' psionic attacks.\n\nThe No. 9 man, a recurring background character throughout the series, is given a significant role in the film, though quite different from the role in the series for which he was originally conceived.\n\nAs fan service, the climactic scene of the film features a scene with up to 200 characters on screen at once; most minor characters from Futurama's history can be seen (Unit 2013 appearing twice) with the exception of the children (like Dwight and Cubert), who were removed when the production team realized that Morbo mentions that there are no children present. In the DVD commentary, producer David X. Cohen notes that Rough Draft Korea, \"Futurama\"'s overseas animation studio, charged a significant premium because of the difficulty of animating this scene.\n\nIn the final scene of the film, Amy and Kif are reunited . After years of Fry trying to win her over, Leela finally returns Fry's love in full; Cohen notes that there was considerable debate among the \"Futurama\" writers about how to end the movie, and that \"Futurama\" creator Matt Groening himself pushed for the actual conclusion.\n\nThe film was initially intended to end the series. After \"Futurama\" was renewed, its creators were unsure if the storylines in the film would be continued. Groening stated that he wanted to ignore the film's ending and move on with the show. Cohen felt differently, stating that the revelations at the end should be resolved, even if the resolutions were brief, which they were in the premiere of the new season.\n\nThe \"Futurama\" staff began working on the film in 2006, and at two different points labor issues affected the production process. According to producer Lee Supercinski, the studio realized that they were going to receive the animatic of the film from Rough Draft Studios two weeks before the deadline for the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. As a result, the writers were forced to make revisions to the script without having completely reviewed the animatic; no writing was done during the strike. The \"Futurama\" studio then received the colored film in June 2008, weeks before a proposed Screen Actors Guild strike deadline, again forcing the writers to revise the script without completely reviewing the picture.\n\nAware that \"Into the Wild Green Yonder\" could have been the final \"Futurama\" episode at the time of writing, the writers inserted numerous references to that fact. The title screen displays the message \"The Humans Shall Not Defeat Us\" in Alien Language 1; according to Cohen, the message is a defiant statement regarding the possible end of the series. Midway through the movie, a shot of the exterior of the Planet Express building draped with a banner reading \"Going Out Of Business Forever! Again!\" is shown, a reference to the original series' previous cancellation in 2003. The scene where Professor Farnsworth removes Zoidberg's and Hermes's career chips and the countdown scene at the violet dwarf implosion ceremony both reference events from the pilot episode, \"Space Pilot 3000\" and also \"The Cryonic Woman\". The cliffhanger nature of the final scene in the movie was devised so that it could conclude the series on an emotional note but also provide a point of departure for a series renewal, according to Cohen.\n\nThe script contains several detailed scientific references, such as the Keeler Gap in the rings of Saturn, the asteroid 2261 Keeler and the Keeler crater on Mars, all named after astronomer James Edward Keeler. In the movie the violet dwarf star is located at \"galactic coordinates 167.84, -58.03, Mark 948\", and Cohen mentions in the DVD commentary that the first two coordinates refer to another astronomical object. In addition, the Martian muck leech is given the scientific name \"Cyprinodon martius\". Writer Ken Keeler adapted the name from \"Cyprinodon salinus\", the scientific name of the Death Valley pupfish, which like the Martian muck leech lives in the desert and is nearly extinct.\n\nThe opening musical theme is a Frank Sinatra-style number sung by \"Family Guy\" and \"American Dad!\" creator Seth MacFarlane as the Planet Express ship flies around the casinos of Mars Vegas.\nOverall the film has received mixed reviews. Alynda Wheat of \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a grade of B, saying that it catered to established fans. Scott Collura of IGN rated the film itself 5/10, praising the use of both major and minor characters from the series and the science fiction content, but criticizing the film for being disjointed and for its \"underwhelming climax\" and concluding that it \"never fully captures the greatness of the original series.\" Collura rated the DVD 7/10, noting the high quality of the video transfer, the image detail and depth, and the use of surround sound and low-frequency effects. Martin Liebman of Blu-ray.com rated the movie 2.5/5 and the Blu-ray release 3.5/5 overall. Liebman praised the film for its development of the primary characters in a way that would appeal to longtime fans and new viewers, but criticized the messy plot and haphazard pacing of the movie. Liebman lauded the Blu-ray release for its crisp images, resolution of detail in the animation, lossless soundtrack and use of surround sound. Bruce Kirkland of Sun Media Corporation wrote that the movie was \"just as good as \"\"\", praising its send-ups of Las Vegas and science fiction themes and writing that it \"nicely handles its environmental message with trenchant wit\". Jeffrey Kauffman of DVD Talk rated the film four stars out of five, calling it \"a fun and frenetic windup to a perhaps undervalued television gem\".\n\nAccording to the-numbers.com, the DVD sold approximately 83,000 units for a total of $1.6 million during its initial week of release, placing it 20th in sales across the USA. As of April 19, 2009, estimated DVD sales in the USA stand at approximately 159,000 units for a total of $3.03 million. Comedy Central cited sales of the DVD as one reason it decided to renew the \"Futurama\" television series.\n\n"}
{"id": "12835428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12835428", "title": "Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition", "text": "Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition\n\nGiordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition is a 1964 non-fiction book by British historian Frances A. Yates. The book delves into the history of Hermeticism and its influence upon Renaissance philosophy and Giordano Bruno.\n\nWith the publication of \"Giordano Bruno and the Hermetic Tradition\", Yates transformed Renaissance historiography. In it, she revealed the hermeticism with which the Renaissance was imbued, and the revived interest in mysticism, magic and Gnosticism of Late Antiquity that survived the Middle Ages. In the face of longstanding conventional interpretations, Yates suggested that the itinerant Catholic priest Giordano Bruno was burned at the stake in 1600 for espousing the Hermetic tradition rather than his affirmation of heliocentricity.\n\nThe book is cited by the bestselling British author Philip Pullman, as a central inspiration for his own writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1006227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1006227", "title": "Glossary of sculpting", "text": "Glossary of sculpting\n\nThis page describe terms and jargon related to sculpture and sculpting.\n\n(Italian) A small terracotta sketch of a sculpture: see \"maquette\".\n\n (often misspelled as )\n\n (also patinate, patination)\n\nSee Direct carving\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47138926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47138926", "title": "Green Thumb Theatre", "text": "Green Thumb Theatre\n\nGreen Thumb Theatre (also known as the Green Thumb Theatre for Young People and simply as Green Thumb) is a Canadian children's theatre company based in Vancouver, British Columbia that was founded by Dennis Foon and Jane Howard Baker in 1975. The couple then went on to conceive and write New Canadian Kid, the company's signature play about a young boy who struggles with culture shock and bullying after immigrating to Canada. The play has been produced world wide for close to 40 years. Green Thumb operates in a former school house located in East Vancouver. In 1980, Green Thumb produced \"Feeling Yes, Feeling No\", a sexual abuse prevention program. Green Thumb performed the premiere of Colin Thomas' play \"One Thousand Cranes\" in 1983. Morris Panych has written several plays for the company that have toured internationally. Green Thumb's \"Celestial Being\" received the 2015 Jessie Richardson Theatre Award for outstanding production for young audiences. Also that year, Green Thumb performed George F. Walker's \"Moss Park\". As of 2018, Patrick McDonald is Green Thumb's artistic director.\n\n"}
{"id": "23384514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23384514", "title": "Hâfiz Osman", "text": "Hâfiz Osman\n\nHâfiz Osman ( Modern Turkish: \"Hâfız Osman\") (1642–1698) was an Ottoman calligrapher noted for improving the script and for developing a layout template for the hilye which became the classical approach to page design.\n\nBorn Osman Den Ali, in Istanbul, he was of Dervish origin and worked under the name of Hâfiz Osman. His father was a muezzin at the Khassèki mosque, a position which afforded he and his family great protection.\n\nHe became an accomplished calligrapher and was a tutor to the sultans Ahmed II, Mustafa II and Ahmed III, and was held in high esteem by the sultan Mustafa II, who, according to legend often watched him work and held his inkwell as he wrote.\n\nHe received his formal training with Suyolcuzade Mustafa Eyyubi and Derviş Ali. He studied \"nashk\" and \"sulus\" with Derviş Ali, and was certified by Suyolcuzade Mustafa Eyyubi. Osman also admired the work of the 15th-century calligrapher, Seyh Hamdullah, and spent many hours copying his works assiduously in order to perfect his craft.\n\nOsman revived some of the six scripts that had fallen into disuse. These scripts underwent a process of purification and became known as \"Hâfiz Osman's style\". The younger generation of calligraphers preferred this style, and it gradually replaced Hamdullah's style.\n\nOsman was not only a fine calligrapher, but was also a master of layout. He raised text design to new heights, often incorporating different styles of calligraphy on the same page. His masterpiece is the Ottoman, \"hilye\"; a design template that includes eight distinct elements arranged aesthetically to provide for contemplative reflection and devotion. The elements are: \"Ba makan\" (prelude); \"Gobek\" (belly); \"Hilal\" (crescent); \"Ko'eler\" (corners); \"Ayak\" (verse); \"Etek\" (foot); \"Koltukar\" (alleys) and \"Pervaz\" (frame). His \"hilye\" became the standard layout in the Ottoman world. \n\nA \"hilye\" is a calligraphic panel containing a hadith-based text describing the Prophet's physical appearance and attributes. Hâfiz Osman incorporated such texts, which had been popular for some time, in a formal design that soon became standard for this art form. \"Hilye\" came to be used as wall decorations or surface adornments, fulfilling much the same function as figurative paintings in other religious traditions. While containing a concrete and artistically appealing description of Prophet's appearance, they complied with the strictures against figurative depictions of the Prophet, leaving his appearance to the viewer's imagination.\n\nHâfiz Osman also reinvigorated Hamdullah's tradition, in particular the re-introduction of a number of scripts that had fallen into disuse. Among his surviving works are copies of the Koran held at the Topkapi Palace Museum Library in Istanbul and the Nasser D. Khalili Collection. The volumes of the Koran produced by Osman were among the most highly sought-after in his time.\n\nHe gave lessons to the poor on Sundays and lessons to the wealthy on Wednesdays. Throughout his lifetime, he trained a large number of calligraphers, of whom the finest was Yedikuleli Seyyid 'Abdullah Efendi. \n\nSurviving examples of his work can be found in the Topkapi Collection.\n"}
{"id": "20613304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20613304", "title": "International Book Project", "text": "International Book Project\n\nThe International Book Project (IBP) is a registered 501 (c)(3) not-for-profit organization, founded by Harriet Van Meter in 1966, which has sent more than 7 million books abroad. Its mission is to promote education and literacy while broadening Americans' understanding of their neighbors, which it achieves by annually sending more than 300,000 books to schools, libraries, churches, and Peace Corps volunteers throughout the developing world and in the United States. The project is based in Lexington, Kentucky, in a warehouse it has owned since 1983.\n\nHarriet Drury Van Meter visited India in 1965 by invitation of the United States Department of State. While in India, she witnessed long lines of people waiting just to borrow a book to study from. She returned to Kentucky and placed an inquiry in the English-speaking Indian newspaper \"The Hindu\", offering books. A large number of people responded, so Harriet Van Meter started sending books from her basement. In 1986, Harriet Van Meter was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts, and she was a finalist.\n\nIn 2006, Kentucky Educational Television aired the documentary \"Harriet Van Meter: A Life Extraordinary\".\n\nThe International Book Project has sent over 7 million books worldwide since 1966. The organization celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2016.\n\nBy providing needed quality books to the people of the developing world, the International Book Project seeks:\n\n\nIBP sends books in the following ways:\n\n\nIBP was started when volunteers started sending books from Mrs. Van Meter's basement, and IBP still needs help. IBP is a small organization, a staff of five, with just four full-time employees. \n\n\"Books Out\" is a self-service program in which representatives from organizations abroad or in areas of need within the United States come to select books at the IBP warehouse and deliver them personally.\n\n\"Books as Bridges\" is an international pen-pal program which partners Central Kentucky classrooms with classrooms in developing countries around the world. Through shared artwork and letters of participants, the program encourages students to develop higher reading levels, cultural awareness, and international friendships. By fostering international friendships, Books as Bridges hopes to spark a passion for social change among Central Kentucky youth.\n\nThe classrooms in Central Kentucky receive cultural lessons about their partner classrooms. In the developing world, the classrooms receive a box of books as an impetus to continue in the program.\n\nIBP often sends books to Peace Corps Volunteers. In 1992, IBP was named \"A Partner for Peace\" by the US Peace Corps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2406043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2406043", "title": "Kalighat painting", "text": "Kalighat painting\n\nKalighat painting or Kalighat Pat originated in the 19th century Bengal, in the vicinity of Kalighat Kali Temple, Kalighat, Kolkata, India, and from being items of souvenir taken by the visitors to the Kali temple, the paintings over a period of time developed as a distinct school of Indian painting. From the depiction of Hindu gods, god, and other mythological characters, the Kalighat paintings developed to reflect a variety of themes.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the only school of painting that was flourishing in Bengal was the traditional art of scroll paintings that was popular in the rural areas. These paintings were done on cloth or patas. They depicted conventional images of gods and goddesses and scenes from epics like Tulsidas’ Rama charita manas. The artists were villagers who travelled from place to place with their scroll paintings and sang the scenes from the epics depicted in the paintings during village gatherings and various festivals. These artists, called patuas or ‘painters on cloth’.\n\nMeanwhile, the British, having established themselves in the country politically started to evince interest in art, literature, and music. They set up institutions that imparted a European style of academic training to Indian artists. The Calcutta School of Art was one such school and attracted traditional artists–the patuas—to the city.\nInitially these artists were concentrated around the temple at Kalighat where there was a demand for religious art. Gradually, they started to learn from the newer techniques and discovered that these could help them increase their earnings. They started creating new forms of art and the Kalighat painting was born.\n\nThe Kalighat School was an agreeable and unique blend of two different styles of painting—the Oriental and the Occidental—and steadily gained popularity. Among the deities that the Kalighat artists painted, the goddess Kali was a favorite. Images of Durga, Lakshmi, and Annapurna were also popular, especially during the Durga Puja festival. The artists also portrayed themes like Sita-Rama, Radha-Krishna and the exploits of Hanuman. \nAnother theme depicted, dear to the Bengali ethos, was that of Chaitanya Mahaprabhu and his disciples. But the Kalighat artists did not restrict themselves to religious themes. Their paintings depicting different professions and costumes were also popular with the tourists. Even contemporary events like crime were the subject of many paintings. The artists also chose to portray secular themes and personalities and in the process played a role in the Independence movement. They painted historic characters like Rani Lakshmibai, and Duldul the famous horse of Imam Hussain of Karbala.\n\nAn important achievement of the Kalighat artistes was that they made simple paintings and drawings, which could easily be reproduced by lithography. Such prints were then hand coloured. This trend continued up to the early part of the twentieth century and these paintings ended up in museums and private collections. The charm of the Kalighat paintings lies in the fact that they captured the essence of daily life and they influence modern artistes like the late Jamini Roy even to this day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28145061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28145061", "title": "Kiehnel and Elliott", "text": "Kiehnel and Elliott\n\nThe architectural firm of Kiehnel and Elliot was established in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1906. The firm did substantial work in Florida, and moved to Miami in 1922. From 1926, it was known as Kiehnel, Elliot and Chalfant.\n\nRichard Kiehnel (1870–1944) was the firm's senior partner. He was born in Germany and studied at the University of Breslau and the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris. Kiehnel's first commission in the Miami area was in 1917 and he opened the firm's Miami office in 1922. He supervised the construction of El Jardin, the earliest known Mediterranean Revival work remaining in Miami. Designing the mansion for John Bindley, President of the Pittsburgh Steel Company, Kiehnel departed from the Mission style that had only recently made its appearance in Florida and provided an elaborate antiquity for the house by using aging techniques to get the desired effect. Kiehnel introduced Mediterranean Revival to Pinellas County through his designs of the Rolyat Hotel in Gulfport, Florida (now part of Stetson College of Law) and the Snell Arcade in St. Petersburg, Florida.\n\nKiehnel advanced to Art Moderne styling in the Carlyle Hotel on Miami Beach and the 1924 Scottish Rite Masonic Temple on the Miami River, the first Art Deco building in the area. He also designed the Annie Russell Theatre, a Romanesque Revival building on the campus of Rollins College in Winter Park.\n\nKiehnel was active in his profession. He was a member of the Pittsburgh chapter of the American Institute of Architects since 1906 and a member of the national body from 1913. He was a charter member of the Florida South chapter and its president in 1930-1931 From 1935 to 1942 Kiehnel was the editor of Florida Architecture and Allied Arts magazine.\n\nA number of Kiehnel's and the firm's works are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBy year (with attribution indicated in parentheses):\nAnd (not by year):\n\n"}
{"id": "34045994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34045994", "title": "Laurence Clark (comedian)", "text": "Laurence Clark (comedian)\n\nLaurence Clark is a British stand-up comedian, writer, actor, presenter, and disability rights campaigner. Laurence was born with cerebral palsy and uses his line of work to alter the general public’s perceptions of disabled people.\n\nLaurence Clark topped \"Shortlist\" magazine's poll of Britain’s Ten Funniest New Comedians in 2009.\n\nAt the Labour Party conference in 2005, Clark was called a 'sit-down comedian' by the then-Prime Minister's wife Cherie Blair, referring to him being a wheelchair user. Clark shrugged off the press attention, saying she was just cracking a \"crap joke\".\n\nClark gave his first live stand-up show, \"The All-Star Charity Show\", at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 2003. It was described by \"The Scotsman\" critic, Kate Copstick, as a \"powerful comedy voice\" and \"stunningly hard-hitting\". and was a Critics' Choice in \"The Times\". Clark's next show, \"The Jim Davidson Guide to Equality\", was based upon comparisons between Jim Davidson's stand-up and Tony Blair's manifesto speeches. A teenage experience of appearing on \"Jim'll Fix It\" with Jimmy Savile provided the basis for \"Jim Fixed It for Me\", performed at the 2006 Edinburgh Festival. Clark's show at the 2007 Edinburgh Festival, \"12% Evil\", used video clips and Powerpoint slides to ridicule common clichés and stereotypes about disabled people. \"Spastic Fantastic\" (2008), charted Clark's mission, as someone who has cerebral palsy, to rescue the word ‘spastic’ through various means, including the use of secret cameras. \"Health Hazard\" (2011), focused on the dangers of privatising the British National Health Service. He won a commission from the London 2012 Cultural Olympiad to produce a new show in that year.\n\nClark also occasionally performs as part of the comedy group \"Abnormally Funny People\", with Steve Best, Liz Carr, Tanyalee Davis, Chris McCausland, Steve Day and Simon Minty.\n\nClark has appeared on \"Are You Having A Laugh? TV and Disability\" (BBC2); The Heaven and Earth Show (BBC 1); Embarrassing Bodies (Channel 4); The London Programme (ITV); The Shooting Party (Channel 4) and I'm With Stupid (BBC 3). In October 2004 he was a reporter on Newsnight (BBC 2), presenting a short film about disability and the UK Abortion Act. Clark and his family are the subject of a documentary film as part of BBC 1's Beyond Disability season called ‘We Won't Drop the Baby’ to be screened on 25 March 2012 on BBC 1, narrated by David Tennant.\n\nOn stage Clark has acted with Graeae Theatre Company, playing Richard in their forum theatre play The Trouble with Richard. He also appeared in David Thacker’s A Midsummer Night's Dream at Bolton's Octagon Theatre, about which the Guardian said \"his wheelchair-assisted Wall is indeed ‘the wittiest partition that I ever heard discourse.’\"\n\nLaurence Clark lives in Liverpool with his wife and two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "22658442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22658442", "title": "List of Tom Swift books", "text": "List of Tom Swift books\n\nAll books in the various Tom Swift book series.\n\n\nThe first 25 and the 39th Tom Swift Sr. books are in the public domain all around the world and are available as downloadable texts from Project Gutenberg. However, in Canada, due to its life plus 50 years policy, and because Howard R. Garis and Thomas Moyston Mitchell died in 1962, on January 1, 2013 volumes 1 to 35 (written by Garis) and 39-40 (written by Mitchell) entered into the Canadian Public Domain. (Canadian Copyright Act, Sections 6.1 and 6.2) This applies to other countries as well that have a life plus 50 policy. Volumes 36 to 38, which were written by Harriet Stratemeyer-Adams, will enter the Canadian Public Domain on January 1, 2033.\n\n\nA few of the Tom Swift Jr. books are in the public domain and available as downloadable texts from Project Gutenberg.\n\nEleven titles were released in paperback by Wanderer Books, an imprint of Simon & Schuster. The first 9 were also printed for libraries in hardcover with dust jackets. Neal Barrett, Jr. and Mike MacQuay also wrote some of the books. A twelfth (\"Chaos on Earth\") and thirteenth (\"The Micro World\") book were written, but never published.\n\n\n\n\nThere are ISBN's registered for volumes 8-11 in this series, but the titles are unknown and it is unknown if any manuscripts exist.\n"}
{"id": "5206914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5206914", "title": "Marchand-mercier", "text": "Marchand-mercier\n\nA marchand-mercier is a French term for a type of entrepreneur working outside the guild system of craftsmen but carefully constrained by the regulations of a \"corporation\" under rules codified in 1613. The reduplicative term literally means a merchant of merchandise, but in the 18th century took the connotation of a merchant of \"objets d'art\". Earliest references to this \"Corps de la Ville de Paris\" can be found at the close of the 16th century, but in the 18th century marchands-merciers were shopkeepers but they also played an important role in the decoration of Paris homes. In fact, they served as general contractors, designing and commissioning pieces of the most fashionable furniture, and often, in addition, worked outside of their shops as interior decorators, responsible for many aspects of a room's decor. In Paris, the guild system, in place since the late Middle Ages, prohibited craftsmen from working with any material with which they had not undergone a formal apprenticeship. Only a marchand-mercier who worked outside of the guild system, therefore, could mount Chinese porcelains with gilt-bronze handles and stands, fit the cabinetmaker's furniture with Japanese lacquer or Sèvres porcelain plaques, and supply furniture with opulent gilt-bronze (or ormolu) mounts.\n\nThe general lines permitted to their \"métier\" were set out under Charles IX, in 1570, as: \n\"Wholesale merchants, drapers and jewelers, in such way that under this status of wholesaler (\"estat de grossier\") have been included at all times the merchants of cloth of gold, of silver, of silk... tapestries, jewellery, spiced goods, textiles, hammered copper, silk thread, hardware and the like, of which it is not permitted to have any manufacture whatsoever, but only to sell, buy, display, bedeck and beautify all kinds of merchandise\" \n\nThus the \"marchands-merciers\" were characterised in the \"Encyclopédie\" as \"sellers of everything, makers of nothing\"\". Jacques Savary des Bruslons elaborated this lapidary remark and revealed the disdain of his generation towards handcrafts: \n\"This Corporation is considered the noblest and most excellent of all the Corporations of Merchants, all the more because those who compose it do not labour at all and make no handiwork, if it were not to beautify those things that are already made and manufactured\"\n\nThough they were confined by law to no narrow specialisation, the Parisian \"marchands-merciers\" followed narrow fields— Savary distinguished twenty— following the usages of their training and their connections, in highly competitive fields dominated by fashion. Among them a small group of \"marchands-merciers\" specialised in works of art, catering to an elite circle of connoisseurs and collectors towards the middle of the 18th century, when a vogue for exoticism expressed itself in \"chinoiserie\". Savary's \"Dictionnaire\" detailed the wares of:\n\"those who sell pictures, prints, candelabras, wall-lights, girandoles of gilded brass and [patinated] bronze, crystal chandeliers, figures of bronze, marble, wood and other material; cabinets, coffers, armoires, table, little tables, and candlestands put together of wood and gilded, marble tables and other merchandise and curiosities proper for the ornament of lodgings.\" \n\nThese entrepreneurs helped guide and even create fashions, such as that for Chinese porcelains, mounted in purely French gilt bronze, transforming a vase into a ewer with rococo lip and handle, or reversing one bowl over another, with an open-work gilt-bronze rim, to function as a perfume-burner. Only a \"marchand-mercier\" could marshal the resources required to create such objects. \"Marchands-merciers\" bought Japanese lacquer screens and boxes, had them dismantled and their wooden backing shaved down, then commissioned \"ébénistes\" like Bernard II Vanrisamberg or Joseph Baumhauer to produce furniture veneered with exotic lacquer panels shaped to fit the complex curves of Louis XV surfaces, and perhaps completed with French imitations, or entirely japanned in Vernis Martin, which might imitate Chinese blue and white porcelain decors, such as the blue-on-white ensemble of furniture Hébert delivered in 1743 for Mme de Mailly\n\nThe influence of the \"marchands-merciers\" on French porcelain is also considerable. Lazare Duvaux alone bought three-fifths of the \"total output\" of Sèvres in 1757, representing a total of 165,876 \"livres\". Certain forms in the Sèvres archives carry the names of well-known \"marchands-merciers\" in their designations.\n\nMembership in the \"corps\" was carefully controlled. A new member, born in France, had to undergo an apprenticeship of three years, followed by another three as a \"compagnon\", during which time he was bound to remain unmarried. His master could take on but one apprentice at a time, and the apprenticeships were duly enregistred at the corporation's offices in rue du Petit-Lion (rue Quincampoix). A sum changed hands, estimated by Guillaume Glorieux as averaging about 1720 500 or 600 \"livres\", and a larger sum was owed to the \"corporation\" when the individual was received master (\"maîtris\"), some 1700 \"livres\". There were two exceptions to this rule, made for purveyors to the Court— \"marchands privilégié suivant le cour\"— by decree of the king, and for those who married the daughter of one of the accredited merchants.\n\nThe Parisian \"marchands-merciers\" congregated in rue Saint-Honoré, marking their establishments with catchy and amusing signs; there could be found the premises of Hébert, Simon-Philippe Poirier— and later at the same premises \"at the sign of the Golden Crown\" his partner Dominique Daguerre and Martin-Eloi Lignereux— Mme Dulac, Julliot, Lebrun \"at the King of the Indies\" and Tuard \"au château de Bellevue\". Nearby, in rue de la Monnaie, the street where the manufacture royale of Sèvres eventually chose to open its porcelain shop, were Darnault, father and son, at the \"sign of the King of Spain\", and Lazare Duvaux. Edme-François Gersaint, for whom Watteau painted \"L'Enseigne de Gersaint\" as a shop sign had premises, following an old tradition, in a house on the Pont Notre-Dame. There, he advertised in 1740, he\n\"Sells all sorts of new and tasteful hardware (\"Cainquaillerie\"), trinkets, mirrors, cabinet pictures, \"pagods\", lacquer and porcelain from Japan, shellwork and other specimens of natural history, stones, agates, and generally all curious and exotic merchandise\".\n\nA newcomer, Granchet, opened premises \"Au petit Dunkerque\", in the Left Bank, Quai Conti at the far end of the Pont Neuf.\n\nAmong these entrepreneurial dealers and interior decorators at the apex of their profession, towards the middle of the century Hébert achieved the greatest celebrity, appearing in the popular novel \"Thémidore\" (1745) and marrying his daughter to the son of the Dauphine's first \"femme de chambre\" in 1751, in a contract signed at Versailles.\n"}
{"id": "51841500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51841500", "title": "Micah Fowler", "text": "Micah Fowler\n\nMicah D. Fowler (born March 5, 1998) is an American actor with cerebral palsy. He is most known for his roles in \"Labor Day\" and as JJ DiMeo in the television series \"Speechless\". Fowler has also had minor roles in \"Blue's Clues\" and \"Sesame Street\".\n\nThe younger brother of actress Kelsey Fowler, he grew up in Barnegat Township, New Jersey. He grew up performing in local theater productions along with his sister. After his sister started taking roles on Broadway, Fowler thought he might like to advance his acting career as well.\n\nMicah D. Fowler started pursuing acting at the age of 5, which led him to roles on \"Blue's Clues\" and \"Sesame Street\". He booked his role for \"Labor Day\" at age thirteen. For his most recent role, as \"JJ DiMeo\" on \"Speechless\", he found out he booked the role on his eighteenth birthday. In an interview with \"People magazine\", Fowler said it was the \"best birthday present ever!\"\n\nRegarding his role on \"Speechless\", he said it is a challenge to play JJ. Although Fowler is able to speak, the JJ character does not speak, so Fowler has to compensate with dramatic facial expressions and body movements. It's said that Fowler's humor gets the show's biggest laughs. He said he sometimes just wants to blurt out what he is feeling or saying.\n\nFowler and the character he portrays both have cerebral palsy, and he is one of few actors with a disability playing a character with a disability on primetime network television.\n\nWhen not performing, Fowler devotes his time as an ambassador for the Cerebral Palsy Foundation (CPF). After each episode of \"Speechless\", the CPF's website posts content and short informational videos about cerebral palsy. Fowler encourages, \"So the next time you watch \"Speechless\", take 10 minutes to check out their post for the night.\"\n\nWhen taking the role for \"Speechless\", Fowler had to move from New Jersey to Los Angeles. To take the role, he sacrificed by missing much of his sled hockey season and much of his senior year. He plans to attend his graduation ceremony in the spring.\n\nWhile Fowler had previously been somewhat averse to social media, after landing the role on \"Speechless\", he did join Instagram and Twitter in an effort to promote the show.\n\nGrowing up he said he was a huge fan of movies and television. He said, \"I couldn't help but notice the lack of characters dealing with disabilities.\" He hopes to be in a \"Star Wars\" film or a Marvel movie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44318695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44318695", "title": "Michaela Coel", "text": "Michaela Coel\n\nMichaela Ewuraba Boakye-Collinson (born 1987), known professionally as Michaela Coel, is a British actress, screenwriter, singer, songwriter, poet, and playwright. In 2016, she won the BAFTA for Best Female Performance in a Comedy Programme and Breakthrough Talent for the television series \"Chewing Gum\", which she created and writes whilst portraying the lead role.\n\nMichaela Coel was born as Michaela Ewuraba Boakye-Collinson in London in 1987. Her parents were Ghanaian. She and her older sister grew up in London, primarily Hackney and Tower Hamlets, with her mother; her parents had split before her birth. She attended Catholic schools in East London, and has said that her isolation as the only black pupil in her age cohort at primary school caused her to bully other pupils. This isolation did not continue into her secondary education at a comprehensive school.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, Coel attended Birmingham University to study English Literature and Theology. She took a Ché Walker masterclass at RADA after meeting Walker at open mics. In 2009, she transferred to the Guildhall School of Music and Drama, where she was the first black woman enrolled in five years. She won the Laurence Olivier Bursary award, which helped her fund her schooling. During her time at Guildhall, she attended the Mark Proulx workshop at Prima del Teatro and took the Kat Francois Poetry Course at the Theatre Royal Stratford East. She graduated from the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in 2012.\n\nIn 2006, Coel began performing in poetry open mics in Ealing. As she continued to do open mics, she was encouraged by the actor, playwright, and director Ché Walker, who saw her perform at Hackney Empire, to apply to Guildhall. As a poet she has performed on stages including Wembley Arena, Bush Theatre, Nuyorican, and Rotterdam De Doelen Concert Hall. She went by the name, Michaela The Poet.\n\nIn 2009, Coel joined the Talawa Theatre Company summer school program called TYPT. During her time at Talawa she was in the TYPT 2009 production of \"Krunch\", directed by Amani Naphtali.\n\nIn 2009, Coel released an album entitled \"Fixing Barbie\", which featured her work as a poet and musician. In 2011, Coel released the record \"We're the Losers\".\n\nIn 2012, Coel's play, \"Chewing Gum Dreams\", was her senior / graduation project at Guildhall. It was first produced at The Yard Theatre in Hackney Wick in 2012. The play featured Coel in a one-woman show telling the dramatic story of a 14-year-old girl named Tracey. The play then went on to be produced by the Bush Theatre (2012), Royal Theatre Holland (2012), Royal Exchange Theatre (2013), and the National Theatre (2014). It received positive reviews.\n\nCoel appeared in the Channel 4 drama \"Top Boy\" and had leading roles at the National Theatre, including the award-nominated \"Home\" and the critically acclaimed \"Medea\" at the Olivier Theatre.\n\nIn August 2014, Channel 4 announced that Coel was to star in and write a new sitcom called \"Chewing Gum\", inspired by her play \"Chewing Gum Dreams\". \"C4 Comedy Blaps\" were released as teasers in September 2014, and the series began on E4 in October 2015. Her performance earned her the British Academy Television Award for Best Female Comedy Performance in 2016; she also won a BAFTA for Breakthrough Talent for writing the show. \"Chewing Gum\" received overwhelmingly positive reviews.\n\nIn 2015, Coel also guest-starred in the BBC One drama \"London Spy\".\n\nIn 2016, she starred in the E4 sci-fi comedy-drama \"The Aliens\", which was shot in Bulgaria. She portrays the character, Lilyhot.\n\n\"Chewing Gum\" returned for a second season in January 2017.\n\nShe also appeared in the \"Nosedive\" and \"USS Callister\" episodes of Charlie Brooker's series \"Black Mirror\".\n\nShe also has a small role in the 2017 film \"\".\n\nFor the 2016 BAFTA Awards, Coel wore a dress made out of Kente cloth which was made by her mother. She has said that, like her \"Chewing Gum\" character Tracey (who is 24 in season 1), she became very religious in the Pentecostal faith, and embraced celibacy. Although she still considers herself a Christian, Coel stopped practising Pentecostalism after attending Guildhall.\n\nEP\nLPs\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1274201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274201", "title": "Micheline Lanctôt", "text": "Micheline Lanctôt\n\nMicheline Lanctôt (born May 12, 1947) is a Canadian actress, film director, screenwriter, and musician.\n\nLanctôt was born in Frelighsburg, Quebec. Her post-secondary education was in music, fine arts, and theatre at \"Collège Jésus-Marie\" in Outremont, and in art history at the Université de Montréal and the École des Beaux-Arts de Montréal; she later studied film animation at the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) and then at Gerald Potterton's studios, Potterton Productions, where she remained for four years.\n\nLanctôt began her acting career in 1972, winning an Etrog (now called a Genie) award for best female performance for her starring role in Gilles Carle's \"La vraie nature de Bernadette\". Since then, she has appeared in a wide variety of film and television roles, such as \"Les Corps Célestes\" (again by Carle); Ted Kotcheff's award-winning \"The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz\", \"Blood Relatives\" (by Claude Chabrol) and Guy Fournier's Radio-Canada TV series, \"Jamais deux sans toi\".\n\nShe has directed for the theatre also, directing \"Oleanna\" by David Mamet for the Théâtre de Quat'Sous in Montreal in 1994, and in 1999, \"Bousille et les justes\" by Gratien Gélinas for the Théâtre du Rideau Vert.\n\nShe began her live-action film-directing career with \"L'Homme à tout faire\" (1980), nominated for best direction and for best film at the Canadian Film Awards in 1981. This success was followed by \"Sonatine\" (1984), which launched the career of Pascale Bussières and won both the Genie for best direction at the Canadian Film Awards and the Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival.\n\nSince 1982, Lanctôt has been a part-time instructor in the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema at Concordia University.\n\nLanctôt defended Gaétan Soucy's novel \"La petite fille qui aimait trop les allumettes\" in the French version of \"Canada Reads\", broadcast on Radio-Canada in 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1898660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1898660", "title": "Music on hold", "text": "Music on hold\n\nMusic on hold (MOH) is the business practice of playing recorded music to fill the silence that would be heard by telephone callers who have been placed on hold. It is especially common in situations involving customer service.\n\nMusic on hold is sometimes referred to as phone on hold, message on hold, on hold messaging, or hold music.\n\nMusic on hold was created by Alfred Levy, an inventor, factory owner, and entrepreneur. In 1962, Levy discovered a problem with the phone lines at his factory. He discovered that a loose wire was touching a metal girder on the building. This made the building a giant receiver so that the audio broadcast signal from a radio station next door would transmit through the loose wire and could be heard when calls were put on hold. Levy patented his work in 1966. While other advancements have come to change and enhance the technology, it was this initial patent creation that began the evolution for today's music on hold.\n\nMost MOH systems are integrated into a telephone system designed for businesses via an audio jack on the telephone equipment labeled \"MOH\". There are also some units with built-in message on hold capabilities and units designed for small businesses without an extensive phone system.\n\nToday, equipment that supports physical media usually plays CDs. Some older systems may still use cassette tapes (sometimes employing endless-loops), or reel-to-reel tape players. In each case, the unit loads the media into a digital memory chip to prevent premature wearing of the mechanical parts.\n\nEquipment that supports virtual media generally plays MP3 files. Several types of units play these files. USB Flash Drive units allow an MP3 file to be received electronically, downloaded to a flash drive and connected to the player. Ethernet based remote load units connect via the network to a remote IP address. Phone line based remote load systems allow for a connection via an analog telephone line and dialing the number belonging to the unit. For VoIP phone systems, MP3s are loaded without any equipment.\n\nNewer technology allows MP3 files to be downloaded automatically from the internet so that messages (or interesting content in the form of news and weather, amongst many) can be changed daily. The new \"online on hold\" technology makes the older technology redundant since it requires no additional hardware. All these systems allow analog-to-digital audio storage and playback.\n\nAs of 2011 allow productions to be downloaded via the Internet or played through a USB flash drive. This allows for larger files and higher quality formats. Grace Digital manufactures internet radio devices that play streaming content (see Recent Trends, below).\n\nA number of studies have been conducted, which highlight consumer perceptions of music on hold, reinforcing its use by businesses to improve standards of call handling.\n\nA survey of more than 2,000 UK consumers commissioned by audio branding specialist PHMG (company) revealed 70% of consumers are put on hold for more than 50% of their calls. When put on hold, 73% of callers want to hear something other than beeps or silence.\n\nA CNN survey found that 70 percent of callers in the United States who hold the line in silence hang up within 60 seconds. Meanwhile, research by North American Telecom found callers hearing music on hold will stay on the line 30 seconds longer than callers experiencing silence.\n\nThe musical source may be as simple as playing a local radio station through the MOH jack. This is unlawful without the express permission of the music title and mechanical copyright holders.\n\nOwners of radio stations will usually air their broadcast signal as music on hold, using their main program signal, if there are several. Examples include RÚV from Iceland using Rás 1 as the on-hold music.\n\nCommercial CDs eliminate the problems encountered with radio commercials, and they offer control over the selection of music; they do not, however, grant proper license for MOH use unless users first obtain permission from the song title copyright owner (when the song is not in the \"public domain\") and the mechanical copyright owner. (See \"Radio,\" above, for more details.)\n\nCDs are available that have been specifically recorded and licensed for MOH systems. These may contain only music, or may include periodic voice-overs with messages such as \"Your call is important\" or \"Please stay on the line\". Such off-the-shelf recordings may be generic or may be specific to individual industries, but will not be customized for individual companies.\n\nIn general, custom music on hold is advised to:\n\nCDs (or other MOH formats, such as MP3 files) can be custom-created to suit the particular needs of a business. The announcements can be scripted to emphasize particular attributes of the business such as location, store hours, or special promotions or services. These are typically used for up-selling and cross-selling callers. Companies can either record the messages themselves, or hire a music on hold production company.\n\nA program loaded onto an existing computer and connected to the phone system can allow automatic content updates interspersed with company information.\n\nStreaming MOH refers to a live music on hold stream (URL-based delivery) which can also include custom content. Streams in http .mp3 format include those provided by easyonhold.com. Streaming MOH can also refer to a streaming media server, as with Cisco Unified Call Manager, in which case RTP format is utilized.\n\nPrograms available to non-profit organizations at no cost. Very few companies offer absolutely free programs. The programs are available in generic and custom formats, and are delivered at no cost to the requesting organization.\n\nThe style of music played by MOH systems depends largely on the type of business offering the service. It is generally best to present music that will not be offensive to the audience, but that would also be of particular interest to the typical caller. A western apparel store may choose to play country music. A Christian book store may choose to play popular Christian music. A university may choose to play classical music. An athletic ticket office may choose to play the team or school's fight song. Light classics, smooth jazz, and beautiful music are common choices, as is fully synthesized melodic music.\n\nThe most common MOH is \"Opus Number One\", which is on \"65 million Cisco phone sets worldwide as the default hold music,\" according to a \"This American Life\" podcast (number 516). The composer, Tim Carleton, recorded the song in 1989 on a four-track tape recorder with Darrick Deel. When Deel, who works at Cisco, told Carleton their song could be the default music on hold, Carleton also approved.\n\nWith the application of newer equipment, music on hold devices can now interact with the caller. No additional programs are required on the platform, as all the logic is done with the MoH device. This can include services such as 'polling on hold', rating your customer service officer anonymously, etc. \n\nThe trend toward hosted IP telephony for business phone systems is demanding changes in music on hold message technology. In November, 2013, EasyOnHold.com introduced custom messages on hold streams for use with Asterisk and OnSIP phone systems.\n\nIn the US, and other countries where copyright laws are practiced, authors are granted copyright protection on their musical compositions. Such copyright protection has existed since just after the turn of the 20th century and most music written prior to 1900-1910 - from impressionism back to baroque and antiquity are said to be \"in the public domain.\" Use of any said music prior to the creation of these copyright laws may be presumed to be free for use by all - although individual titles may have been later copyrighted through a change in the composition or arrangement. The use of copyrighted music is not for free use in the public domain.\n\nAll music written after this period, which is copyrighted under multiple acts of congress, are owned by the author(s) or their assignees. The use of this music is protected and controlled in order that the owner may derive usage income. Specific to telephonic MOH (music-on-hold), the US laws currently protect the copyright owners from unlawful, unpermitted use of their music titles in over-the-phone broadcast. Any person or business wishing to use current, popular, post 1900-1910, copyrighted music for MOH purposes may only lawfully do so by obtaining permission from the owner. Currently, performance rights societies such as ASCAP, BMI and SESAC will sell blanket permission to use music titles in their catalog for MOH purposes—for an express annual fee - calculated by size and frequency of usage. Failure to obtain this paid permission is a violation of US copyright laws.\n\nThis same copyright protection is also true in the rebroadcast of any radio program. As mentioned earlier, the broadcaster has been assigned a narrow and specific usage license to air copyrighted song titles. This does not include permission to any person or business to re-broadcast that program on telephonic MOH. The broadcaster may not promote such unlawful use and is not an owner who has any lawful right to grant MOH usage permission. They do not hold the ownership of the title and have no right to license use in any way. Those who plug radio broadcast into their telephone MOH without first obtaining paid permission through the owner's agents (ASCAP, BMI or SESAC) may be in violation of copyright law and may be prosecuted under existing federal laws.\n\nA second copyright exists when it comes to licensing use for telephonic MOH. A piece of music, as mentioned above, is copyrighted and may be licensed for use as a music title and is understood to be a combination of melody, harmony and, where applicable, lyrics. However, neither radio listeners nor MOH listeners could hear this music unless it was recorded - providing a delivery medium whereby the \"music\" becomes a \"performance.\" As mentioned elsewhere, in countries such as the US, where said copyright laws are enforced, nearly every recording of a song title holds its own \"mechanical copyright.\"\n\nFor most of the 20th century, music was recorded in studios, produced by record company executives, producers, arrangers and engineers who were hired to deliver the artist's finished recordings for mastering and duplication - for sale on the varied media: 78, 45 and 33 RPM vinyl, reel-to-reel, 8-track tape, cassette and compact disc. To protect their investment, the record companies obtain a mechanical copyright in order to protect and control the recording with which they derive usage and sales income. (For those still uncertain of the difference between \"song title\" and \"mechanical\" copyrights, consider the Capitol Records lawsuit for copyright infringement against Nike some 20 years ago. Nike legally obtained permission to use the Beatles song title \"Revolution\" from the title's owner, Michael Jackson. They used the Capitol Records owned recording of the Beatles' performance, but failed to obtain and pay for permission and use. Capitol Records sued and prevailed because Nike ONLY had a license to use the title and did not have a license to use the mechanical recording.)\n\nTherefore, persons or businesses wishing to play music that falls \"in the public domain\" are still legally required to obtain permission to use the mechanical recording of this music, from the mechanical copyright holder. And where the use is of copyrighted music, the same applies. In all cases, before a song title may be broadcast on a telephone MOH, said use must be approved and licensed from BOTH the \"song title\" copyright owner (if it is NOT in public domain) and the \"mechanical\" copyright owner. \n\nIt is generally known within the on-hold industry that some performance rights societies, with regional offices and staff, both monitor and prosecute persons and businesses that infringe on the copyright of title holders in their libraries. ASCAP and BMI are both aggressive about this, from time to time. It is not known whether any record companies are currently or actively monitoring and prosecuting violators of their mechanical license.\n\nAs of 2010, the music-on-hold/message-on-hold business was a 100+ million dollar industry with more than 300 different vendors to choose from producing custom content amounting to less than $1M in sales per company - including various manufacturers of specific-duty, message-on-hold devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "51136654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51136654", "title": "Nutcracker doll", "text": "Nutcracker doll\n\nNutcracker dolls, also known as Christmas nutcrackers, are decorative nutcracker figurines most commonly made to resemble a toy soldier. In German tradition, the dolls are symbols of good luck, scaring away bad spirits.\nWhile nearly all nutcrackers from before the first half of the 20th century are functional, a significant proportion of modern nutcrackers are primarily decorative, and not able to crack nuts.\n\nNutcracker dolls originate from late-17th century Germany, particularly the Ore Mountains (German: \"Erzgebirge\") region. One origin story attributes the creation of the first nutcracker doll to a craftsman from Seiffen. They were often given as gifts, and at some point they became associated with Christmas season. They grew in popularity around the 19th century and spread to nearby European countries. As the demand grew, nutcracker doll production also began on a mass scale in factories. (1844–1923), commonly known in Germany as \"father of the nutcracker\", began the first mass production of the design (using a lathe) at his workshop in Seiffen in Saxony during 1872.\n\nDecorative nutcracker dolls began being popularized outside of Europe after the Second World War, when numerous American soldiers stationed in Germany came home to the United States with German nutcrackers as souvenirs. Further popularization came from Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's \"The Nutcracker\", a ballet adaptation of E. T. A. Hoffmann's story \"The Nutcracker and the Mouse King\", which featured a toy soldier nutcracker. The ballet, introduced to America during the mid-20th century, became a favorite holiday tradition across the United States and helped make nutcracker dolls a Christmas decoration and a seasonal icon across Western culture.\n\nAn average handcrafted nutcracker doll is made out of about 60 separate pieces. Nutcracker dolls traditionally resemble toy soldiers, and are often painted in bright colors. Different designs proliferated early; by the early 19th century there were ones dressed as miners, policemen, royalty or soldiers from different armies. More recent variations have been made to resemble various pop-culture or historical figurines, from Benjamin Franklin to Operation Desert Storm-uniform American soldiers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35778109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35778109", "title": "Ralph Lauren Corporation", "text": "Ralph Lauren Corporation\n\nRalph Lauren Corporation () is an American corporation producing mid-range to luxury fashion products. They are known for the clothing, marketing and distribution of products in four categories: apparel, home, accessories, and fragrances. The Company's brands include Polo Ralph Lauren, Ralph Lauren Collection, Lauren Ralph Lauren, Double RL, Ralph Lauren Childrenswear, Denim & Supply Ralph Lauren, Chaps, and Club Monaco. Ralph Lauren Corporation is an American, publicly traded holding company headquartered in New York City, and founded in 1967 by American fashion designer Ralph Lauren.\n\nThe Ralph Lauren Corporation started in 1967 with men's ties. At 28 years-old, Lauren worked for the tie manufacturer, Beau Brummell. He persuaded the company's president to let him start his own line. Drawing on his interests in sports, Lauren named his first full line of menswear ‘Polo’ in 1968. He worked out of a single \"drawer\" from a showroom in the Empire State Building and made deliveries to stores himself.\n\nBy 1969, the Manhattan department store Bloomingdale's sold Lauren's men line exclusively. It was the first time that Bloomingdale's had given a designer his own in-store shop. In 1971, Ralph Lauren Corporation launched a line of tailored shirts for women, which introduced the Polo player emblem, appearing on the shirt cuff. The first full women's collection was launched the following year.\n\n1972 marked the opening of Ralph Lauren's store on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills, California, his first freestanding store. In 1977 Ralph Lauren Corporation introduced a signature cotton mesh Polo shirt in various colours. Featuring the polo player logo on the chest, the shirt became emblematic of the preppy look—one of Lauren's signature style.\n\nIn 1974, Ralph Lauren outfitted the male cast of \"The Great Gatsby\" in costumes chosen from his Polo line - a 1920s-style series of men's suits and sweaters, except for the pink suit which Lauren designed especially for Robert Redford’s \"Jay Gatsby\". In 1977, Diane Keaton and Woody Allen wore Lauren's clothes in the Oscar-winning film, \"Annie Hall\".\n\nIn 1978, the first Ralph Lauren fragrances, produced by Warner-Lauren, Ltd were launched at Bloomingdale's. Lauren for women, and Polo the men's cologne. This was the first time that a designer introduced two fragrances – one for men and one for women – simultaneously.\n\nThe company entered the European market, and went international, in 1981 with the opening of the first freestanding store in New Bond Street in the West End of London, England. Lauren opened his first flagship in the Rhinelander mansion, on Madison Avenue and 72nd Street in New York City in 1986. On June 12, 1997, the company becomes a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nThe 98-seat restaurant, RL, opened in March 1999 in a newly constructed building adjacent to the largest Ralph Lauren store at the corner of Chicago and Michigan Avenues. It was followed by the opening of two additional restaurants – Ralph's at 173 Boulevard Saint Germain Paris store in 2010 and The Polo Bar at Polo's store in New York in 2015.\n\nThe company launched its website and online shop in 2000 as polo.com by RL Media (a cooperation between Ralph Lauren and NBC). In 2007, Ralph Lauren Corporation acquired the NBC share of RL Media and the website was relaunched as ralphlauren.com. In September 2015, it was announced that Stefan Larsson would replace the company's founder, Ralph Lauren, as CEO in November. Lauren will stay on as executive chairman and chief creative officer.\n\nIn February 2017 it was announced that Larsson had agreed to leave his position as CEO effective May 1, 2017 due to differences with Lauren. On May 17, 2017, Ralph Lauren named Patrice Louvet President and Chief Executive Officer. Louvet most recently served as Group President, Global Beauty at Procter & Gamble (P&G). He took over on July 17, 2017.\n\n\nThe Company ended Fiscal 2016 with 493 directly operated stores: 144 Ralph Lauren stores, 77 Club Monaco stores and 272 Polo factory stores. The Company also operated 583 concession shop locations worldwide at the end of the year.\n\nIn addition to Company-operated locations, international licensing partners operated 93 Ralph Lauren stores and 42 dedicated shops, as well as 133 Club Monaco stores and shops at the end of Fiscal 2016.\n\nRalph Lauren operates its representative flagship stores in New York City on Madison Avenue – for menswear in the former Rhinelander Mansion, and for womenswear and home in another structure, across the street, which opened in 2010. The company also manages flagships, for retailing Ralph Lauren collections, in Chicago, Manhasset, Greenwich (USA), London, Milan, Tokyo, Moscow, and Paris.\n\nIn 2005, The United States Tennis Association selects Ralph Lauren Corporation as the official apparel sponsor for the U.S. Open. As part of the partnership, all on-court ball persons and officials will be dressed in specially-designed Ralph Lauren apparel. This is Polo's first tennis sponsorship.\n\nIn 2006, Ralph Lauren Corporation became the official outfitter of Wimbledon. Lauren is the first designer in the tennis tournament’s history to be chosen to create uniforms for all on-court officials.\n\nRalph Lauren Corporation is the exclusive Official Parade Outfitter for the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Teams, with the right to manufacture, distribute, advertise, promote, and sell products in the U.S. which replicate the Parade Outfits and associated leisure wear. The Company has established a partnership with athletes serving as brand ambassadors and as the faces of the advertising, marketing, and public relations campaigns.\n\nRalph Lauren Corporation partners with the United States Olympic Committee to become an Official Outfitter of the U.S. Olympic Team, for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, 2012 Summer Olympics in London, 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi and 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio.\n\nRalph Lauren designs the official Opening Ceremony and Closing Ceremony parade outfits for the U.S. teams in addition to an assortment of village-wear apparel and accessories.\n\nIn 1989, it co-Founded the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington D.C. in memory of the late Post fashion correspondent.\n\nIn 1994, Ralph Lauren acted as chairman and creates the name and symbol for Fashion Targets Breast Cancer, a charitable initiative of the CFDA that marshals the goodwill and services of the fashion industry to raise public awareness and funds for breast cancer internationally.\n\nIn 2000, Ralph Lauren Corporation launched its Volunteer Program, which energises employees and creates meaningful connections with the communities in which they work.\n\nOn September 15, 2000, Ralph Lauren Corporation launched the Pink Pony Campaign, a national initiative to reduce disparities in cancer care by raising awareness as well as enhancing prevention, screening, and treatment in poor and underserved communities.\n\nIn 2001, the Polo Ralph Lauren Foundation established the American Heroes Fund following September 11 to allow Polo's 10,000 employees worldwide, as well as their customers, the opportunity to participate in the relief effort.\n\nIn 2003, Ralph Lauren established the Ralph Lauren Center for Cancer Care and Prevention in Harlem. The Center is a collaboration between Ralph Lauren, Memorial Sloan-Kettering, and North General Hospital in Harlem, New York City.\n\nIn 2004, the Polo Fashion School was established, in which company executives work with inner-city youth to offer insights into the fashion business.\n\nEstablished in 2006, the Polo Jeans G.I.V.E. (Get Involved Volunteer Exceed) campaign was created to inspire and encourage community service through volunteerism by supporting the efforts of dedicated volunteers and their causes.\n\nIn 2008, the Star-Spangled Banner, the original 1813 flag that inspired Francis Scott Key to write the National Anthem, was preserved by a $10 million contribution to Save America's Treasures from Polo Ralph Lauren in 1998. The flag was then unveiled on Wednesday, November 19, 2008 in a new gallery at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History, in Washington D.C.\n\nIn July 2013, Ralph Lauren Corporation announced its commitment to restore the elite École des Beaux-Arts in Paris, one of the most influential art schools in France.\n\nIn 2014, Ralph Lauren Corporation partnered with The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust, the largest and most comprehensive cancer center in Europe, to develop a world-class breast cancer research facility. In 2016, Ralph Lauren Corporation opened the Royal Marsden Ralph Lauren Center for Breast Cancer Research.\n\nLevi Strauss & Co. filed a lawsuit against Abercrombie & Fitch and the RL Corporation in July 2007 for trademark infringement. It alleged that the separate retailers used Levi's trademarked pocket design of connected arches in the design of some of their respective products.\n\nThe Polo brand sold in South Africa is not affiliated with the Ralph Lauren brand. An independent South African company trademarked the Polo name and logo in South Africa.\n\nIn 2009, Ralph Lauren apologized for digitally retouching a photograph of model Filippa Hamilton to make her look thinner. Hamilton also claims that she was fired by Ralph Lauren a few days later. Another model's photo was also digitally retouched adding to the row of models.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44549157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44549157", "title": "Raquel Freire", "text": "Raquel Freire\n\nRaquel Freire (born 22 June 1973, in Porto) is a Portuguese film director, screenwriter and novelist.\n\nIn 2014 she released the film \"Transiberic Love\" which is a love story set in modern times showing how one can be an activist within globalised social media and still have some integrity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21856010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21856010", "title": "RiP!: A Remix Manifesto", "text": "RiP!: A Remix Manifesto\n\nRiP!: A Remix Manifesto is a 2008 open-source documentary film about \"the changing concept of copyright\" directed by Brett Gaylor.\n\nCreated over a period of six years, the documentary film features the collaborative remix work of hundreds of people who have contributed to the Open Source Cinema website, helping to create the \"world's first open source documentary\" as Gaylor put it. The project's working title was \"Basement Tapes\", (referring to the album of the same name) but it was renamed \"RiP!: A Remix Manifesto\" prior to theatrical release. Gaylor encourages more people to create their own remixes from this movie, using media available from the Open Source Cinema website, or other websites like YouTube, Flickr, Hulu, or MySpace.\n\nGaylor traveled the world to find like-minded people who would help him draft the \"Remixer's Manifesto\" that makes up the structure of his open source documentary. The manifesto reads as follows:\nTo further his point, Gaylor separates the corporations from the public domain, defining the former using so-called \"CopyRIGHT,\" and the latter, which represents the free exchange of ideas, as \"CopyLEFT.\" Gaylor and Gillis are clearly on the side of the Copyleft, promoting the free flow and growth of creativity and ideas. To enable a free remixing culture also with his film, he released RiP! under the CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 Creative Commons license.\n\nThe documentary is particularly interested in the legal grey area of remixing existing works. The film features appearances by:\n\n\nThe 1710 Statute of Anne gave authors the exclusive rights to their works. The documentary was able to be made and distributed due to the part of copyright law deemed fair use, the ability to use copyrighted works to prove a point. Fair use allows for free speech. Due to the fact that Gaylor tries to prove a point about copyright law and the rights of artists in his film, he is legally allowed to use examples to get his point across. He uses remixed music in the film to give examples of what would be considered illegal. The film also discusses the consequences of illegal downloading and copyright infringement.\n\nThe Capitol Records, Inc. v. Thomas-Rassett case was the first file-sharing copyright infringement lawsuit in the United States to be brought in front of a jury by major record labels.\n\n\"RiP!: A Remix Manifesto\" made its international debut at the IDFA (International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam) in November 2008. It won the festival's Audience Award.\n\nThe film made its US debut at the South by Southwest festival on 15 March 2009.\n\nThe Canadian news-magazine \"Macleans\" called the movie as \"a dazzling frontal assault on how corporate culture is using copyright law to muzzle freedom of expression.\"\n\nShowing at the Whistler Film Festival, that took place 4 to 7 December 2008, it also won the Cadillac People's Choice Award. It also received the Audience Choice award at the Ann Arbor Film Festival.\n\nAt the Festival du Nouveau Cinéma in Montreal it won the Special Jury Prize. It was the closing film at Docs Barcelona. It was an honorable mention at the EBS film festival (Korea). It was the opening film of the Ambulante Film Festival (Mexico City). It was a Selection at the South by Southwest Film Festival, at Les Rendez-vous du cinéma québécois, the Adelaide Film Festival, Thessaloniki Film Festival, Silverdocs, Nashville Film Festival, Victoria International Film Festival, Yamagata International Documentary Festival, Planete Doc (Poland), Available Light Film Festival, Buenos Aires Film Festival, Sheffield Doc/Fest and the Munich Dokfest, the New Zealand International Film Festivals, Guth Gaga Film Festival (Ireland), and the International Film Festival of Rio.\n\nThe film was in the running for Best Feature Length Documentary in the 30th Annual Genie Awards in Canada.\n\nDocumentary (Canada), Documentary Channel (USA), NHK (Japan), SBS (Australia), YLE (Finland), NRK (Norway), EBS (Korea), Canal D – Quebec, Yes – Israel, VPRO – Netherlands, TV3 – Catalonia, TVP Cultura – Poland, Globo – Brazil, Cult – Italy, Planete- France, iSat – Argentina + South America\n\n\"RiP!: A Remix Manifesto\" received mixed reviews from critics; The Globe and Mail called the film \"A forceful, vibrant and immensely entertaining call to action.\" Critics in Australia in particular struggled with the polemical nature of the film. Many of the reviewers on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes struggled with the director's point of film and the film received a 40% approval rating from critics there, with an average score of 5/10, based on 10 reviews. Audiences, meanwhile, gave the film a 75% approval rating based on 316 reviews.\n\nOn 27 February 2009 Brett Gaylor started a new project on his site, Open Source Cinema, dubbed RiP!: A Remix Manifesto 2.0. With this project, he invited users to take the original documentary, remix it, and upload their contributions to be included in a new, improved version of the film. The 2.0 was screened at the SilverDocs film festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52488796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52488796", "title": "Sentimental Ballad (painting)", "text": "Sentimental Ballad (painting)\n\nSentimental Ballad is a 1940 painting by the American artist Grant Wood. It depicts a group of singing men in a bar.\n\nThe painting is located at the New Britain Museum of American Art in New Britain, Connecticut.\n\nThe painting came to be because of Wood's art dealer Associated American Artists and the film producer Walter Wanger, who commissioned nine popular artists to paint a motif from the upcoming film \"The Long Voyage Home\", directed by John Ford. The other artists who participated were Thomas Benton, George Biddle, James Chapin, Ernest Fiene, Robert Philipp, Luis Quintanilla Isasi, Raphael Soyer and Georges Schreiber. The artists visited the set of the film for several weeks in May 1940. Wood's scene is toward the end of the film and features, from left to right, the actors John Qualen, John Wayne, Barry Fitzgerald, Thomas Mitchell, Joe Sawyer, David Hughes and Jack Pennick.\n\nAlthough originally commissioned for the marketing of a film, the painting was well received in the press and went on to tour American museums.\n"}
{"id": "16542830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16542830", "title": "Sonya Levien", "text": "Sonya Levien\n\nSonya Levien (born Sara Opesken; 25 December 1888 – 19 March 1960) was a Russian-born American screenwriter. She became one of the highest earning female screenwriters in Hollywood in the 1930s and would help a number of directors and film stars transition from silent films to talkies. In 1955 she received an Academy Award for her screenplay \"Interrupted Melody.\"\n\nSara Opesken (Sonya being the Russian diminutive) was born in Panimunik, a small village in the Pale of Settlement on 25 December 1888 (later changing the date to 1898.) The oldest child to parents Julius (b. ca. 1863) and Fanny (b.ca. 1865), Sonya had two brothers, Arnold and Max.\n\nDuring this period, Russian authorities kept a watchful eye over citizens, especially Jewish people with radical affiliations. Sonya's father had a remote connection with a radical newspaper as well as agreeing with the anarchist ideas of Prince Peter Kropotkin. Julius Opesken also joined a Narodnik study circle before being arrested and put to work in the Siberian mines. While their father served his time, the Opesken family moved in with Julius' father, a rabbi, who stressed the importance of language to a young Sonya. Her grandfather instructed her in Russian, French, German, and Hebrew as well as encouraged her to read from the Talmud and the Shulhan' Aruk on a daily basis.\n\nIn 1891, her father escaped exile and made his way to America, choosing to take on the surname of his German rescuer, Levien. He brought the rest of his family over in 1896, where they joined him on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. They were not the only Russian Jews between 1891 and 1900, in these nine years over 150,000 Jews came to New York alone. Once settled in America, her parents had two more sons, Edward and Nathan. The family received their naturalization papers in 1905.\n\nAll of the children in her family worked through school to help with expenses. Sonya worked in a feather-duster factory throughout her teenage years, making four dollars each week. During her formative years in America, having grown up in poverty, she joined a group of socialists. Sonya, like many other European immigrants in America, went to a public grammar school. After she finished in 1901 or 1902, she was unable to continue to high school due to financial issues. She took out a loan for $36 in order to learn stenography and get a job as a secretary. It took her four years of work to repay this loan. During her time as a secretary she also became acquainted with settlement work and labor unions. Sonya also managed to take some classes at the Educational Alliance where, in 1903, she met Rose Pastor. Not only did Pastor hire her as a secretary, she was also a member of the Socialist Party and the Women's Trade Union League, giving Sonya access to a whole library of texts on these subjects she could read.\n\nLevien began to write her own work by sending in short comedic squibs to Life and with these earnings was able to contribute to her college tuition and her family's well being. By fall 1906, she enrolled at New York University Law School for a Certificate of Law, seeing it as a more practical job option than writing, however she still wrote short scenes for productions at her university. Just a year later, she was hired as a secretary to the editor of \"Success\", Samuel Merwin. Here, her duties began to span more than secretary jurisdiction. She also read manuscripts, rewrote articles, sometimes even collaborated with an author.\n\nIn 1909, she went for admission to the New York State Bar Association, but discovered she was too sympathetic in character to work in a court of law. Instead she chose her work at \"Success\" and received a promotion to fiction reader. \"Success\" had its last publication in December 1911 and Levien's next employment came from The Woman's Journal, a publication interested in the women's suffrage movement. She worked there in 1912 as an assistant editor and business manager. Towards the end of 1912 she sent a short story to Carl Hovey, who was a co-editor at the time, and began work at The Metropolitan.\n\nHaving retained a connection with her roots, Sonya helped out at the People's Institute, an organization which helped supply immigrants with the skills they might need to join the workforce in America. She also worked on the National Board of Censorship as an Educational Secretary. However, when World War I commenced, Levien was working in London covering the British Suffragist movement for fourteen months in 1913 and 1914. Here she wrote editorials urging women to demand for more than just suffrage and ask for school, as well as institutional, reform and better living conditions.\n\nSonya returned to America in 1914 and focused her creative efforts on writing. She sent stories to a number of publications including \"Saturday Evening Post, Collier’s, Redbook, Ladies Home Journal, Harpers, Cosmopolitan, Atlantic Monthly,\" and \"Century\". She then moved onto writing melodramas, although her success in this endeavor was not immediate. In 1919 she received her first credit for an original story, the film \"Who Will Marry Me?\" Her second credit came in 1921, and incidentally \"Cheated Love\" followed a Jewish immigrant, named Sonya who is in love with a doctor above her social standing. She did additional story on this project.\n\nBy the end of 1921, Famous Players-Lasky bought two of her stories \"The Heart of Youth\" and \"Baby Doll\" paying her $2500 and $3000 respectively. Feedback for Baby Doll was mixed, but was eventually made into the film \"The Top of New York.\" These stories gave Sonya the opportunity of a contract: she would receive $24,000 her first year there and receive a raise of $5000 each year for five consequent years. This led her to move west, to Hollywood, leaving her family behind in New York. She worked tirelessly and received three Hollywood credits for \"The Snow Bride, Pink Gods,\" and \"The Exciters.\"\n\nYet, by 1923, she missed her young son Serge and felt she had the duty to support her husband's career over her own, so she broke her contract by Famous Players-Lasky and returned to her family. Here she received an editorial position at \"McClure's Magazine\". Shortly after, in fall of 1924, Famous Players-Lasky requested she adapt a novel, \"Salome of the Tenements\", for the screen, the story of which actually paralleled Sonya's own life story. She made a great many changes to the plot, however reviews for the film highlighted the directing and not the script work. Next, she did scenario editing work at Samuel Goldwyn Pictures. For this job, she attended Broadway plays and would find ways to adapt them into films. By this time, her husband's editing work had ended and they decided to move together this time to Hollywood. He would edit stories for C.B. DeMille and Sonya would write scenarios. Unfortunately Carl would not do so well in Hollywood, unable to find another job after DeMille. Sonya found herself with regular work and as the main breadwinner in the family. Not only did she write for film, but she also continued as an author for magazines and even tried her hand at plays, such as the one-act \"By the Sword\" which was performed by The Writer's Club.\n\nDespite being a woman, Sonya managed to avoid being categorized as someone who wrote only films for women. She was experienced in all genres (null Western or Gangster films.) Her forte came in adapting outside material for film. She worked her first four years back in Hollywood with the name Sonya Hovey for a number of different studios. She worked for Warner Bros. from January to June 1926. Here, she wrote her first comedy, a move from her usual melodramas. \"Footloose Widows\" featured mistaken identities, mix ups between poor and wealthy people, and even gold digging- all elements of the screwball comedy genre.\n\nShe was hired by C.B. DeMille in August 1926 for Metropolitan Pictures and Pathé. She worked for him until June 1928 and during this time experimented in genre. In autumn, she signed with Columbia Pictures, where she wrote a number of features until March 1929. She was elected to the board of The Writer's Club and in May 1929 was offered a contract at Fox Film Corp. She would stay with them until 1939. Her first yearly contract supplied her with $500/ week, and after the first six months she received $600/ week. One year renewal options granted her $750. But although her pay was good, legally she was not able to receive screen credit or publicity for each project she contributed to. She had to pay to advertise her own name. Nonetheless, Sonya became one of the top writers which allowed her to work alongside big stars and well-known directors. In the years 1929-1935, she would work on an estimated six screenplays a year, receiving about five credits. During this period, she was able to write four films for Charles Farrell and Janet Gaynor, two more for Janet Gaynor, five for Will Rogers, and have a total of six of her stories directed by Frank Borzage. She also worked with directors Allan Dwan and John Ford. Although uncredited, she made additions for Shirley Temple in \"Curly Top.\" \n\nSonya garnered a reputation for being able to adapt all kinds of material into a film screenplay, although she was not known for her prowess at dialogue. For Fox, she penned a detective thriller \"Behind that Curtain\", featuring Charlie Chan. She worked at length with Frank Borzage on \"Lucky Star,\" only to have it be labelled Frank Borzage's \"Lucky Star.\" Sonya helped not only Borzage, but also Will Rogers, transition to sound films. She also collaborated with S.N. Behrman in three of the next six projects she would assist on.\n\nLevien was Fox’s highest paid female screenwriter during the 1930s. Her films were also known for dealing with family conflicts. In 1933, still employed by Fox Studios, Sonya would receive an Oscar nomination for \"State Fair.\" She penned John Ford's first Technicolor film in 1939, \"Drums Along the Mohawk.\" She also worked for RKO, working on \"Hunchback of Notre Dame\" in 1939 as well.\n\nShe then went on to sign a contract with MGM in 1941. By 1955, she had won an Academy Award for \"Interrupted Melody\" for MGM. Sonya garnered an impressive filmography, having worked on over 70 films spanning her career, a great deal of the time without a collaborator. In fact, she was presented with the first Laurel Award presented from the Screenwriters Guild of America. Her last screen credits included \"Jeanne Eagels\" from 1957 and in 1960, she would receive her final screen credit for Pepe.\n\nLevien married her husband Carl Hovey on 11 October 1917. They moved together to East 92nd street in New York, and Sonya took in Hovey's two children from his previous marriage. Hovey was an Anglo-Saxon Protestant but they had little protest from either of their families and even decided to declare their own children Jewish, although they would not enforce a religious upbringing on them. Together they had two children: a son, Serge (b. 1920) and a daughter, Tamara (b. 1923.) Although Levien has stated that her instincts told her she should have six or seven children, she found that a large family would take years away from her career and was not financially suitable for her. In fact, her husband failed to find steady employment once they moved to Hollywood together and she bore the responsibility of supporting him, their children, his two children from a previous marriage, as well as making a comfortable home for them.\n\nLevien has described herself as one who enjoys music, singing and playing the piano, as well as reading biographies. Although she admired nice clothing, she usually wore sports clothes and hated going shopping. Sonya generally avoided confrontation and arguments with her acquaintances, and shied away from talking on the telephone. She self-identified as ambitious, but also restless in character. Those she worked with stated that Levien was easy to work with and would help out others often. Her husband died in 1956 and she developed cancer in the mid 1950s. Sonya Levien died on 19 March 1960 at the age of 71.\n\nLevien was a Secular Jew who was very interested in activism in her early years, living on the East Side of New York. She describes her natural pull to more radical views, joining a group of agitators formed majorly of socialists but which also included anarchists and single-taxers. Levien was known for supporting the suffragette cause in the early 20th century. Both in her film and non-film works, Levien wrote about the struggles of immigrant women and families. Levien belonged to the Heterodoxy club, which was a debate group focusing on radical feminism. She also heavily supported women’s emancipation and birth control. Many of the films in the beginnings of her career focused on Jewish people, however many of her female characters found their happiness in wedlock, and signs of her own radical sensibilities were not always apparent in her film work. Once in Hollywood she was known as an apolitical woman. In fact, shortly after 1950, her daughter Tamara and her husband, Lee Gold, were blacklisted as members of the Communist Party, Sonya chose never to comment publicly.\n\n"}
{"id": "151314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=151314", "title": "St Ives, Cornwall", "text": "St Ives, Cornwall\n\nSt Ives (, meaning \"St Ia's cove\") is a seaside town, civil parish and port in Cornwall. The town lies north of Penzance and west of Camborne on the coast of the Celtic Sea. In former times it was commercially dependent on fishing. The decline in fishing, however, caused a shift in commercial emphasis, and the town is now primarily a popular seaside resort, notably achieving the title of Best UK Seaside Town from the British Travel Awards in both 2010 and 2011. St Ives was incorporated by Royal Charter in 1639. St Ives has become renowned for its number of artists. It was named best seaside town of 2007 by \"The Guardian\" newspaper. It should not be confused with St Ive, a village and civil parish in south-east Cornwall.\n\nThe origin of St Ives is attributed in legend to the arrival of the Irish saint Ia of Cornwall, in the 5th century. The parish church bears her name, and St Ives derives from it.\n\nThe Sloop Inn, which lies on the wharf was a fisherman's pub for many centuries and is dated to \"circa 1312\", making it one of the oldest inns in Cornwall. The town was the site of a particularly notable atrocity during the Prayer Book Rebellion of 1549. The English provost marshal, Anthony Kingston, came to St Ives and invited the portreeve, John Payne, to lunch at an inn. He asked the portreeve to have the gallows erected during the course of the lunch. Afterwards the portreeve and the Provost Marshal walked down to the gallows; the Provost Marshal then ordered the portreeve to mount the gallows. The portreeve was then hanged for being a \"busy rebel\".\n\nThe seal of St Ives is \"Argent, an ivy branch overspreading the whole field Vert\", with the legend \"Sigillum Burgi St. Ives in Com. Cornub. 1690\".\n\nDuring the Spanish Armada of 1597 two Spanish ships, a bark and a pinnace had made their way to St Ives to seek shelter from the storm which had dispersed the Spanish fleet. They were captured by the English warship \"Warspite\" of Sir Walter Raleigh leaking from the same storm. The information given by the prisoners was vital on learning the Armada's objectives.\n\nFrom medieval times fishing was important at St Ives; it was the most important fishing port on the north Cornish coast. The pier was built by John Smeaton in 1767–70 but has been lengthened at a later date. The octagonal lookout with a cupola belongs to Smeaton's design.\n\nA. K. Hamilton Jenkin describes how the St Ives fisherman strictly observed Sunday as a day of rest. St Ives was a very busy fishing port and seining was the usual method of fishing. Seining was carried out by a set of three boats of different sizes, the largest two carrying seine nets of different sizes. The total number of crew was seventeen or eighteen. However this came to an end in 1924. In the decade 1747–1756 the total number of pilchards dispatched from the four principal Cornish ports of Falmouth, Fowey, Penzance, and St Ives averaged 30,000 hogsheads annually (making a total of 900 million fish). Much greater catches were achieved in 1790 and 1796. In 1847 the exports of pilchards from Cornwall amounted to 40,883 hogsheads or 122 million fish while the greatest number ever taken in one seine was 5,600 hogsheads at St Ives in 1868. The bulk of the catch was exported to Italy: for example, in 1830, 6400 hogsheads were sent to Mediterranean ports. From 1829 to 1838, the yearly average for this trade was 9000 hogsheads. \n\nOnce the spring mackerel season ends, the fishing fleet head north. In July 1882, ninety luggers and six hundred men were engaged in the Scottish herring fishery.\n\nWhile commercial fishing is much reduced, the harbour is still in use, often as well for recreational boating, tourist fishing and day trips to the nearby seal colonies on the Carrack Rocks and other locations along the coast. Recently, a class of Victorian fishing boat unique to St. Ives, known as a \"jumbo,\" has been replicated by boatbuilder Jonny Nance to celebrate the town's maritime heritage. Today's jumbos are operated by the St. Ives Jumbo Association.\n\nThe first lifeboat was stationed in the town in 1840. In 1867 the Royal National Lifeboat Institution built a boathouse at Porthgwidden beach. It proved to be a difficult site to launch from and in 1867 it was replaced by a building in Fore Street. In 1911 a new boathouse was built on the Quay, and then in 1993 a larger station was built at the landward end of the West Pier.\n\nSeven crewmen died in the St Ives lifeboat tragedy of 1939. In the early hours of 23 January 1939 there was a Force 10 storm blowing with gusts up to . The lifeboat \"John and Sara Eliza Stych\" was launched at 3 o'clock to search for a ship reported in trouble off Cape Cornwall. It rounded The island where it met the full force of the storm as it headed westwards. It capsized three times and drifted across St Ives Bay when its propeller was fouled. The first time it turned over four men were lost; the second time one more; the third time left only one man alive. He scrambled ashore when the boat was wrecked on rocks near Godrevy Point.\n\nThe modern seaside resort developed as a result of the arrival of the St Ives Bay branch line from St Erth, part of the Great Western Railway in 1877. With it came a new generation of Victorian seaside holidaymakers. Much of the town was built during the latter part of the 19th century. The railway, which winds along the cliffs and bays, survived the Beeching cuts and has become a tourist attraction itself.\n\nIn 1952, the Royal Navy warship HMS Wave ran aground near the town. The ship was later salvaged, repaired and returned to service. A propeller believed to be from HMS Wave was washed ashore in 2008.\n\nIn 1999, the town was the first landfall of the Solar eclipse of 11 August 1999. A live BBC programme with the astronomer Patrick Moore was clouded out and the eclipse was missed.\n\nOn 28 July 2007 there was a suspected sighting of a great white shark. The chairman of the Shark Trust said that \"it was impossible to make a conclusive identification and that it could have also been either a Mako or a Porbeagle shark\". Coastguards dismissed the claims as \"scaremongering\". On 14 June 2011 there was a suspected sighting of an oceanic whitetip shark, after a boat was reportedly attacked. The Shark Trust said that the chances of the species being in British waters were \"very small\". On 18 July 2017 a suspected blue shark was spotted close to the harbour. On 16 July 2018, another blue shark was spotted in the harbour, prompting the Shark Trust to ask people to stay out of the water.\n\nSt Ives is on the western shore of St Ives Bay, its harbour sheltered by St Ives Island (a headland) and Smeaton's pier. Close to the harbour, in the old part of the town, the streets are narrow and uneven while its wider streets are in the newer parts of the town on rising ground. The town has four beaches: Porthmeor a surfing beach, Porthgwidden a small sandy cove, Harbour by the working port and Porthminster which has almost half a mile of sand. St Ives has an oceanic climate and has some of the mildest winters and warmest summers in Britain and Northern Europe. It is therefore a popular tourist resort in the summer, and also benefits from an amount of sunshine per year that is above the national average. The South West Coast Path passes through the town.\n\nSt Ives' local government administration has a two-tier structure consisting of two separate councils both of which are democratically elected statutory bodies which St Ives Town Council and Cornwall Council.\n\nThe first tier of local government in St Ives is the Town Council which is the closest tier to the general public with a membership of 16 elected town councillors from three wards. The last elections were held in May 2013. The council has responsibilities for providing grant funding to local organisations, public footpaths, bus shelters, beach patrols, traffic control and allotments. The Council is a statutory body which is consulted regarding planning decisions in the town’s area and makes recommendations to the planning authority, Cornwall Council.\n\nBefore 1974, St Ives Borough Council was the principal local authority for what now forms the civil parish of St Ives. Since the reform of local government in 1974, St Ives has an elected town council. The area overseen by the Town Council of St Ives includes Lelant, Carbis Bay, Halsetown and St Ives. The elected town council members also become charter trustees of the original borough charter (for the duration of their term in office) which dates back to 1639 entitling them to carry out various ceremonial functions such as appointing a Mayor, awarding freedom of the borough to individuals, representing the Borough at formal occasions such as Remembrance Sunday wearing formal ceremonial robes and using the Coat of Arms. Typically, the Mayor of the Town of St Ives is also the Mayor of the Borough of St Ives. However, most of the other principal local authority functions for St Ives were undertaken by Penwith District Council and the Cornwall County Council. From 1 April 2009 Penwith and the other five Cornish district councils were replaced by a unified council, Cornwall Council.\n\nLike St Ives Town Council, Cornwall Council is a statutory body incorporated by Act of Parliament. Cornwall Council is the second tier of local government in the area and is a unitary authority with a far wider range of powers. The Council deals with roads, street lighting, highways, social services, children and family care, schools and public libraries. St Ives itself elects three of the 123 councillors.\n\nThe parish church is dedicated to Saint Ia of Cornwall, an Irish holy woman of the 5th or 6th century, and St Andrew, the patron saint of fishermen. In 1408 the townsmen attempted to get a papal bull to authorise the consecration of their church and cemetery, but they did not achieve this, so they continued without the rights of baptism or burial. However, they undertook the building of the present church between 1410 and 1434 as a chapel of ease, St Ives being within the parish of Lelant. They were able to obtain the right to a font in 1428 but consecration of the cemetery only in 1542. For over a century the vicars of Lelant had resisted demands from the inhabitants of St Ives and Towednack for the right of sepulture but in 1542 the right was granted so the vicars transferred their residence to St Ives and abandoned the vicarage of Lelant. There was damage to the church in 1697 when a storm broke through the sea-wall and damaged the roof and a large window over the altar. \n\nThere are chapels dedicated to St Nicholas on the headland of St Ives Island and St Leonard on the quay which were used by the fishermen and have been converted for other uses. The former chapel of St Nicholas was partially demolished by the War Office in 1904 but rebuilt in 1909, possibly by E H Sedding, from the old materials. It is plain and rectangular and has since been converted into the New Gallery.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church of the Sacred Heart and St Ia was built in 1909 to a design by A J C Scoles. There are also two Methodist chapels, one in Fore Street of 1831, and another of 1845 higher up the valley, and a Congregational chapel of 1800.\n\nBernard Leach and Shōji Hamada set up the Leach Pottery in 1920. Leach was a studio potter and art teacher, and is known as the \"Father of British studio pottery\", learned pottery under the direction of Shigekichi Urano (Kenzan VI) in Japan where he also met Shōji Hamada. They promoted pottery from the point of view of Western and Eastern arts and philosophies. Leach produced work until 1972, and the Victoria and Albert Museum held an exhibition of his work in 1977. The Leach Pottery remains operational and houses a small museum showcasing work by Leach and his students.\n\nIn 1928, the Cornish artist Alfred Wallis and Ben Nicholson and Christopher Wood met at St Ives and laid the foundation for the artists' colony. In 1939, Ben Nicholson, Barbara Hepworth and Naum Gabo settled in St Ives, attracted by its beauty. In 1993, a branch of the Tate Gallery, the Tate St Ives, opened. The Tate looks after the Barbara Hepworth Museum and her sculpture garden. The town attracted artists from overseas, such as Piet Mondrian and Maurice Sumray, who moved from London in 1968, and continues to do so today with younger artists such as Michael Polat, who took up residence there from his native Germany in 1999.\n\nBefore the 1940s, most artists in St Ives and West Cornwall belonged to the St Ives Society of Artists; but events in the late 1940s led to a dispute between the abstract and figurative artists in the group. In 1948 the abstract faction broke away to form the Penwith Society of Artists led by Barbara Hepworth and Ben Nicholson.\n\nIn 1962 Frederick Spratt took a sabbatical in Britain for one year, where he lived and painted representationally in St Ives.\n\nThe studio pottery Troika was set up in 1963.\n\nA 2010, a BBC4 film, \"The Art of Cornwall\", presented by James Fox said that the St Ives artists \"went on to produce some of the most exhilarating art of the twentieth century...for a few dazzling years this place was as famous as Paris, as exciting as New York and infinitely more progressive than London.\" The programme explored the lives and works of the key figures and their contributions in establishing St Ives as a major centre of British art from the 1920s onwards.\n\nThe Barbara Hepworth Museum and her sculpture garden are the responsibility of Tate St Ives. It was the wish of the late sculptor to leave her work on public display in perpetuity. The St Ives Museum has exhibits illustrating local history and culture, including mining, fishing, agriculture and domestic life.\n\nJohn Knill, a former mayor, constructed the Knill Steeple, a granite monument overlooking the town. In 1797, Knill laid down instructions for the celebration of the Knill Ceremony, which was to take place every five years on 25 July (St James's Day). The ceremony involves the Mayor of St Ives, a customs officer, and a vicar accompanied by two widows and ten girls who should be the \"daughters of fishermen, tinners, or seamen\".\n\nA second celebration, of perhaps greater antiquity, is St Ives Feast, a celebration of the founding of St Ives by St Ia, which takes place on the Sunday and Monday nearest to 3 February each year. It includes a civic procession to Venton Ia, the well of St Ia, and other associated activities. It is one of the two surviving examples of Cornish Hurling (in a gentler format than its other manifestation at St Columb Major).\n\nA third festival is the St Ives May Day, a modern revival of West Cornwall May Day celebrations that were once common throughout west Cornwall.\n\nThe St Ives September Festival celebrated its 30th anniversary in September 2008. It is one of the longest running and widest ranging Festivals of the Arts in the UK lasting for fifteen days and includes music (folk, jazz, rock, classical & world), poetry, film, talks and books. It was founded in 1978 as a joint venture by local entrepreneurs and the International Musicians Seminar. Many local artists open up their studios to allow visitors to see how their art is produced. There is free music in many pubs almost every night, and concerts. Many events are held at the Western Hotel or St Ives Guildhall. St Ives has a 500-seat theatre which hosts some of the festival events.\n\nEarly-20th-century figures in St Ives appear in Virginia Woolf's reflections contained in \"A Sketch of the Past\", from \"Moments of Being,\" \"...I could fill pages remembering one thing after another. All together made the summer at St. Ives the best beginning to life imaginable. Her 1927 novel \"To the Lighthouse\" is said to have been influenced by the view from Talland House where she stayed with her parents on family holidays.\n\nThe Cornish language poet Mick Paynter is resident in St Ives.\n\nModern-day novelist Elizabeth Day, author of \"The Party,\" writes many of her novels whilst staying in St Andrews Street in St Ives. \n\nThe \"Ulysses Moore\" series of books, written by Pierdomenico Baccalario are based in the hypothetical village of Kilmore Cove near Zennor and St Ives.\n\nThe St Ives Literature Festival is an annual week-long event, started in 2008, in May. Open air performances are held in Norway Square and the St Ives Arts Club, as well as talks, workshops and live music.\n\nIn 1978/1979 The town and the pub the Sloop Inn were filmed and appeared in Jerry Jameson's Film \"Raise The Titanic\" released in 1980.\n\nThe Discovery Travel and Living programme \"Beach Café\", featuring Australian chef Michael Smith, was filmed in St Ives.\n\nThe well-known nursery rhyme and riddle \"As I was going to St Ives\" may refer to the Cornish town or one of several other places called St Ives.\n\nSt Ives is the home of St Ives Rugby Football Club (founded 1889) who play at the Recreation Ground on Alexandra Road. Once one of the dominant clubs in Cornish rugby, they currently ply their trade in Tribute Western Counties West (tier 7 of the English rugby union system). There is also a football team, St Ives Town FC, who play in the Cornwall Combination (division 12 of the English football system). Their ground is at Lelant Saltings.\n\nSt Ives railway station is linked to the Paddington to Penzance main rail route via the St Ives branch line which runs frequent services from St Erth station. The line was opened in 1877 by the St Ives branch railway, but became part of the Great Western Railway in 1878. A Park-and-Ride facility for visitors to St Ives runs from Lelant Saltings railway station. The station opened on 27 May 1978 specifically for this purpose. The line also links the town to nearby Carbis Bay and Lelant.\n\nThe town also has regular services by National Express Coach from London Victoria, Heathrow and other places in Britain. Buses also connect St Ives to nearby towns and villages, such as Zennor, Penzance and Truro.\n\nThe nearest airports to St Ives are Newquay and Land's End Airport, near St Just. Private jets, charters and helicopters are served by Perranporth airfield.\n\nSt Ives is twinned with Camaret-sur-Mer () in Brittany, France and has friendship agreements with Laguna Beach, California and Mashiko, Tochigi, Japan.\n\nOn Sunday 7 September 2014, St Ives had a ceremony to make St Ives and Laguna Beach, California, US a Sister City.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33895007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895007", "title": "Stadttheater Fürth", "text": "Stadttheater Fürth\n\nStadttheater Fürth is a theatre in Bavaria, Germany. It was designed by the Viennese architecture office Fellner & Helmer, and completed in 1902.\n"}
{"id": "2191243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2191243", "title": "Standard Reference Method", "text": "Standard Reference Method\n\nThe Standard Reference Method or SRM is one of several systems modern brewers use to specify beer color. Determination of the SRM value involves measuring the attenuation of light of a particular wavelength (430 nm) in passing through 1 cm of the beer, expressing the attenuation as an absorption and scaling the absorption by a constant (12.7 for SRM; 25 for EBC). \n\nThe SRM (or EBC) number represents a single point in the absorption spectrum of beer. As such it cannot convey full color information which would require 81 points, but it does remarkably well in this regard (it conveys 92% of spectral information) even when fruit beers are considered. \n\nAuxiliary \"deviation coefficients\" (see Augmented SRM below) can pick up the remainder and are necessary for fruit beers and when subtle color differences in malt beers are to be characterized.\n\nThe ASBC and EBC measurements are now identical (both done at the same wavelength and in the same size cuvette) but the scaling is different. \n\nA photometer or spectrophotometer is used to measure the attenuation of deep blue (violet) light at 430 nm, as it passes through 1 cm of beer contained in a standard 1 cm by 1 cm cuvette. The absorption is the log of the ratio of the intensity of the light beam entering the sample to the intensity leaving. This difference is multiplied by 12.7 in the SRM system and 25 in the EBC (see below). \n\nFor example, if the light intensity leaving is one one-hundredth the light intensity entering the ratio is 100, the absorption is 2 and the SRM is 25.4. The scale factor derives from the original definition of SRM discussed in the next paragraph.\nThe SRM number was originally, and still is, defined by \"Beer color intensity on a sample free of turbidity and having the spectral characteristics of an average beer is 10 times the absorbance of the beer measured in a 1/2-inch cell with monochromatic light at 430 nanometers.\" Modern spectrophotometers use 1 cm cuvettes rather than 1/2 inch ones. When a 1 cm cuvette is used, application of the Bouguer-Beer-Lambert law shows that the multiplier should be 12.7 rather than 10. When the SRM value for a beer or wort is larger than about 30 the log linear limit of some instruments using 1 cm cuvettes is approached. In such cases the sample is diluted with deionized water. Using Beer-Lambert again gives the mathematical definition of SRM in the general case as: \n\nwhere formula_2 is the dilution factor (formula_3 for undiluted samples, formula_4 for 1:1 dilution etc.) and formula_5 the absorbance at 430 nm in 1 cm.\n\nThe 430-nanometer wavelength corresponds to a deep blue (violet) light, and was chosen, as was the multiplier, to make values determined in the SRM system comparable to those determined using the Lovibond system in use at the time the SRM was adopted.\n\nThe SRM was adopted in 1950 by the American Society of Brewing Chemists which had recognized the need for an instrument based measurement of color unburdened by the difficulties of the Lovibond system which relies (it is still in use in many industries including brewing malts are often labeled with the Lovibond color of laboratory worts prepared from them) on visual comparison of the sample to tinted glass discs. Beer colors measured in SRM and degrees Lovibond were, as noted above, approximately equal at the time of adoption of the SRM. However, modern analytical methods show that SRM and Lovibond diverge for darker colors. Comparison of EBC and Lovibond data published by modern malsters shows that the relationship between SRM and Lovibond (ºL) is:\n\nThe EBC system of color measurement is similar to the SRM. Measurements are taken at 430 nm in a 1 cm cell but the unit of color is 25 times the dilution factor times A as opposed to 12.7 times the dilution factor times A so that\n\nThus EBC is approximately twice SRM and this applies at any color depth. The agreement between SRM and Lovibond is fair for pale beers (10 °L ~ 12.7 SRM) but worsens for darker beers or worts (40 °L ~ 53.4 SRM).\n\nBoth systems demand that the beer be free of turbidity prior to the measurement at 430 nm. In the SRM a second measurement is taken at 700 nm. If the absorption at this wavelength is less than 0.039 (this number comes from ) times the absorption at 430 nm the beer is considered turbidity free. If not, it is to be filtered or centrifuged and the reading repeated. If the ratio test is not passed after clarification then the beer does not have \"average spectral characteristics\" and, technically, is not qualified to be characterized by the SRM method. The augmented SRM method described below removes this difficulty.\n\nIn the EBC system the beer is required to be filtered if its turbidity is more than 1 EBC turbidity unit (equivalent to 1 FTU). No absorption measurement is made other than at 430 nm. (the turbidimeter measures scattering at 650 nm).\n\nNote that an earlier version of EBC color was based on absorption at 530 nanometers, which permitted no direct conversion between the two systems. However, if one assumes a linear log absorption spectrum (the Linner hypothesis from the realm of caramel color), and knows the Linner Hue Index, formula_9, the absorptions are related by:\n\nA formula for converting between the old EBC color value and SRM sometimes continues to appear in literature. It should not be used, as it is flawed and based on measurements which are no longer taken.\n\nPart of the problem with this formula is that beer spectra are \"not\" log linear. The absorption of 1 cm of a beer with \"average spectral characteristics\" (average here means the average of the absorption spectra of the ensemble of 99 beers as described in) at wavelength formula_11 is well described by\n\nWhile it is clear that one could use this formula to compute A from the SRM measured at 430 nm and thus interconvert between SRM and old EBC this is not where its value lies. Because it represents, at least approximately, the full absorption spectrum of the beer it can be used to calculate the tristimulus color (three color coordinates in a chosen color space which describes the color an observer actually sees) of a beer of known SRM by following the prescription of ASTM E-308.\n\nThere has been interest in tristimulus reporting in the brewing community in recent years and the ASBC has an approved Method of Analysis [MOA] for tristimulus characterization. The absorption of the sample is measured in 1 cm at 81 wavelengths separated by 5 nm starting at 380 nm and extending to 780 nm. These are converted to transmission values (by taking the antilogarithm of each absorption) and inserting the results into ASTM E-308. The reported tristimulus values are in Lab color space and describe what is seen under Illuminant C (daylight) by a 10° observer when the path is 1 cm. The choice of path, illuminant, observer and color space does not represent a limitation of E-308 but rather the ASBC's need to standardize reporting.\n\nIf we are given only the SRM value for a beer we can compute the approximate transmission spectrum if the beer has average spectral characteristics simply by taking the antilog of formula_13:\n\nThis can be used with E-308 to calculate tristimulus color in any path, for any illuminant, for either observer in any colorspace derivable from CIE XYZ space. This formula could, for example, be used to compute color patches to be printed on transparency or card stock for use in evaluating the SRM of actual beers but color swatches prepared in this way are only valid for the illuminant, observer and path used in the E-308 calculation. The BJCP color guide was prepared in this way. This illustrates that the SRM does convey full color information if the beer has average spectral characteristics. If it does not then we need more information than just the SRM provides.\n\nRecent research has shown that the transmission spectrum of a beer (with no restriction on its spectral characteristics) can be represented by:\n\nformula_15\n\nwhere the formula_16 are eigenvectors of the covariance matrix of the normalized transmission spectra of the ensemble of beers from which the average normalized spectrum (the sum of the two exponential terms in parentheses in the formula_13 formula) was determined and formula_18, formula_19 etc. are obtained as the dot products of the eigenvectors with the normalized transmission spectrum of the beer being characterized. This formula is identical to the one given previously with the exception that it has been augmented by the formula_20 coefficients which encode the deviation of the sample normalized spectrum from the average normalized spectrum. Where the sample beer has a normalized spectrum close to the average the c's are small and it is remarkable how often this is the case. Typically one or two augmentation coefficients are sufficient and they are frequently small enough that one or more can be neglected. For example, an imported ale with SRM equal to 6.8 has coefficients -0.07 and -0.1. Using both these coefficients one obtains color accuracy of less than one Lab space unit (the limit of perception) in up to a 10 cm path under Illuminant C. Using just the SRM for this beer gives a reasonably good description of its color with error of about 4 Lab units. Beers which deviate dramatically from the \"average\" spectrum are easily accommodated. Thus a sample of Kriek (Belgian cherry beer), has an SRM of 15.27. Were its color to be reconstructed from just the SRM it would be the color of an \"average\" beer which will be dark amber not the red of a Kriek. Including 3 coeffiecents (1.8, 0.8 and -0.1) yields color accuracy of less than 1 Lab unit in paths up to 8 cm again under Illuminant C.\n\nAugmented SRM is advantageous relative to the ASBC tristimulus method in that color under any viewing circumstances can be computed in addition to which the familiar SRM rating is retained. Because of metamerism one cannot, in the general case of non zero deviation coefficients, estimate the original spectrum from the Lab values reported by the ASBC method.\n\n"}
{"id": "45451629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45451629", "title": "Teatro Comunale Giuseppe Borgatti, Cento", "text": "Teatro Comunale Giuseppe Borgatti, Cento\n\nThe Teatro Comunale Giuseppe Borgatti (Communal Theatre of Giuseppe Borgatti) is a 19th-century theatre and music performance hall located on Via Campagnoli Bartolomeo in Cento, Province of Ferrara, Region of Emilia-Romagna, Italy. The theater is named after the prominent tenor from Cento, Giuseppe Borgatti (1871–1950).\n\nThe theatre was built between 1856 and 1861 using designs by Antonio Giordani and Fortunato Lodi. The colourful exterior has a Neo-Romanesque style with rounded arches. The interiors were frescoed during the 19th century. Structural damage from the 2012 Northern Italy earthquakes led to closure of the theater, until restorations completed. The museum display dedicated to Borgatti and the flutist remain open.\n"}
{"id": "39898734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39898734", "title": "The Art of Sound (exhibition)", "text": "The Art of Sound (exhibition)\n\nThe Art of Sound is an exhibition which was developed in 2013 by the National Film and Sound Archive (NFSA) in collaboration with art galleries in Australia to explore the use of sound in the visual arts.\n\nThe curators at the NSFA compiled a sound palette, which comprises a wide variety of Australian audio recordings from the NFSA's sound collection. There are music, speeches, and sounds from the environment. The curators at partner art galleries search the sound palette to find audio material that would complement their individual artworks and combine them for unique audience experiences at each gallery.\n\nThe gallery partners in the project in 2013 were:\n\nAs a national institution, the NSFA uses exhibitions, film festivals and touring projects to provide access to its collection of audiovisual materials to the people in regional Australia. The Art of Sound was supported by the National Collecting Institutions Touring and Outreach Program (an Australian Government program which supports projects that make collections available to all Australians).\n"}
{"id": "473774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473774", "title": "Transformation geometry", "text": "Transformation geometry\n\nIn mathematics, transformation geometry (or transformational geometry) is the name of a mathematical and pedagogic take on the study of geometry by focusing on groups of geometric transformations, and properties that are invariant under them. It is opposed to the classical synthetic geometry approach of Euclidean geometry, that focuses on proving theorems.\n\nFor example, within transformation geometry, the properties of an isosceles triangle are deduced from the fact that it is mapped to itself by a reflection about a certain line. This contrasts with the classical proofs by the criteria for congruence of triangles.\n\nThe first systematic effort to use transformations as the foundation of geometry was made by Felix Klein in the 19th century, under the name Erlangen programme. For nearly a century this approach remained confined to mathematics research circles. In the 20th century efforts were made to exploit it for mathematical education. Andrei Kolmogorov included this approach (together with set theory) as part of a proposal for geometry teaching reform in Russia. These efforts culminated in the 1960s with the general reform of mathematics teaching known as the New Math movement.\n\nAn exploration of transformation geometry often begins with a study of reflection symmetry as found in daily life. The first real transformation is \"reflection in a line\" or \"reflection against an axis\". The composition of two reflections results in a rotation when the lines intersect, or a translation when they are parallel. Thus through transformations students learn about Euclidean plane isometry. For instance, consider reflection in a vertical line and a line inclined at 45° to the horizontal. One can observe that one composition yields a counter-clockwise quarter-turn (90°) while the reverse composition yields a clockwise quarter-turn. Such results show that transformation geometry includes non-commutative processes.\n\nAn entertaining application of reflection in a line occurs in a proof of the one-seventh area triangle found in any triangle.\n\nAnother transformation introduced to young students is the dilation. However, the reflection in a circle transformation seems inappropriate for lower grades. Thus inversive geometry, a larger study than grade school transformation geometry, is usually reserved for college students.\n\nExperiments with concrete symmetry groups make way for abstract group theory. Other concrete activities use computations with complex numbers, hypercomplex numbers, or matrices to express transformation geometry.\nSuch transformation geometry lessons present an alternate view that contrasts with classical synthetic geometry. When students then encounter analytic geometry, the ideas of coordinate rotations and reflections follow easily. All these concepts prepare for linear algebra where the reflection concept is expanded.\n\nEducators have shown some interest and described projects and experiences with transformation geometry for children from kindergarten to high school. In the case of very young age children, in order to avoid introducing new terminology and to make links with students' everyday experience with concrete objects, it was sometimes recommended to use words they are familiar with, like \"flips\" for line reflections, \"slides\" for translations, and \"turns\" for rotations, although these are not precise mathematical language. In some proposals, students start by performing with concrete objects before they perform the abstract transformations via their definitions of a mapping of each point of the figure.\n\nIn an attempt to restructure the courses of geometry in Russia, Kolmogorov suggested presenting it under the point of view of transformations, so the geometry courses were structured based on set theory. This led to the appearance of the term \"congruent\" in schools, for figures that were before called \"equal\": since a figure was seen as a set of points, it could only be equal to itself, and two triangles that could be overlapped by isometries were said to be congruent.\n\nOne author expressed the importance of group theory to transformation geometry as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29509885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29509885", "title": "William Henry Leeds", "text": "William Henry Leeds\n\nWilliam Henry Leeds (1786, Norfolk - 1866) was an English architectural critic and journalist.\n\nLeeds was a frequent contributor to the \"Foreign Quarterly Review\" in the 1830s, writing for them on Russian literature as well as architecture. In the 1840s he wrote for the \"Westminster Review\". From 1839 to 1854 he edited the \"Civil Engineer's and Architect's Journal\", and from 1855 to 1856 edited \"Land and Building News\".\n\nHe translated Georg Moller's \"Memorials of German Gothic architecture\" and edited a revised edition of \"Decorative Part of Civil Architecture\" by William Chambers.\n\n"}
{"id": "23580615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23580615", "title": "Wood Awards", "text": "Wood Awards\n\nThe Wood Awards (until 2003 the Carpenters' Award) is a British award for working with wood. The award, which was launched in 1971, is bestowed on winners of several categories within buildings and furniture. Awards are presented in The Carpenters Hall following the decision of the architects, engineers, furniture designers / makers, timber specialists and architectural journalists who judge the competition. The Awards are sponsored by several commercial organisations and the Worshipful Company of Carpenters. \n\nEach year there is one winner and one \"Highly Commended\" project in seven categories, and a \"Gold Award\" for the best of the seven category winners. \n\nA list of winners and highly commended projects, 2008-, is available online. \n\n"}
{"id": "9220925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9220925", "title": "WorleyParsons", "text": "WorleyParsons\n\nWorleyParsons Limited is an Australian engineering company which provides project delivery and consulting services to the resources and energy sectors, and complex process industries.\n\n1970s: John Grill (chief executive officer 1975–2012), joined Smith, de Kantzow & Wholohan, which led to the 1976 establishment Wholohan Grill and Partners, a small Australian engineering consultancy. Wholohan Grill and Partners grew steadily throughout the 1970s and 80s.\n\n1980s: In 1987, Wholohan Grill and Partners acquired the Australian interests of Worley, an American-based engineering firm. The company changed its name to Worley and from this point began expanding steadily, securing long term contracts in Brunei, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore, and creating local joint ventures, most of which are still active today.\n\n1990s: Throughout the 1990s Worley expanded both its industry sector and geographical footprint. A policy of diversification saw Worley grow from its roots in the hydrocarbons sector into the power, infrastructure and environment, and minerals and metals sectors. At the start of the new millennium Worley was well poised to continue its industry sector and geographic expansion with 30 offices and 3,000 personnel globally. This success enabled Worley to diversify further through additional partnerships and acquisitions.\n\n2000s: In 2002 Worley became a publicly listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange, leading to a period of acquisitions of increasing magnitude around the globe, including companies in Canada, Oman, and China. In 2004 Worley acquired Parsons E&C. Parsons E&C had its own history stemming back to 1944, when Ralph M. Parsons started what is now the Parsons Corporation in Los Angeles. In 2002, Parsons Corporation separated Parsons E&C from its other business units. Worley merged operations with Parsons E&C and commenced trading as WorleyParsons.\n\nFurther acquisitions included Astron in 2004, and Komex, which was involved in environmental services, in 2005, DRPL in the power sector, TMG and Watkins & Godwin in the infrastructure sector, HG Engineering, Gas Cleaning Technologies, and Jones & Jones in the mineral and metals sector, continued to deepen and broaden WorleyParsons’ capability and geographic presence.\n\nIn 2006 WorleyParsons entered the South American market through a joint venture with Santiago-based ARA, a leading base metals and infrastructure engineering firm, and Colt Companies, Canada’s largest engineering and project services firm, became part of the WorleyParsons family in 2007. Later that year, the companies Patterson Britton and Partners, and John Wilson and Partners, were acquired, both consultants in the water and environmental services market in Australia, with specific capabilities in the coastal and marine, water resources and waste water, environmental, civil and structural and power markets. That provided a significant expansion of the organisation's ability to support its customers in the areas of water and environmental services. In November 2007, WorleyParsons’ capability in the nuclear consulting and analysis segment of the international nuclear industry was complemented with the acquisition of Polestar and UniField Engineering, with the aim of expanding its presence in the electrical power business in the USA further.\n\nWorleyParsons has a strong commitment to developing its business in Africa, as shown by the establishment of offices in Egypt and Libya, and by the acquisition, at the beginning of 2008, of a 50% share in Pangaea – a Pretoria-based project services company, which was renamed PangeaWorleyParsons.\n\nThe acquisitions of SEA Engineering in 2007, and INTEC (now known as INTECSEA) in April 2008, both international offshore deep-water hydrocarbons engineering and project services companies, strategically positioned the company to provide comprehensive solutions for large-scale integrated deep-water facilities, subsea and marine systems projects.\n\nThe acquisition of Westmar in 2008, a Canadian-based marine and port facility, resource and mining infrastructure, bulk material handling and transportation specialist, extended the Infrastructure and Minerals & Metals capabilities in both Canada and international markets.\n\nIn 2009 WorleyParsons acquired the United Kingdom assets of Day & Zimmermann to form the hub of WorleyParsons’ UK Improve business. The same year saw the acquisition of Brazilian based on CNEC. The capability of CNEC complements the existing capabilities of WorleyParsons’ resource and energy businesses.\n\nIn 2010 WorleyParsons acquired the business advisory services company, Evans & Peck. Operating in Australia and China, Evans & Peck provide services across the transport, power and energy, resources, water and social infrastructure sectors.\n\nMore recently, the acquisition of Kwezi V3 Engineers, (KV3) a leading South African engineering firm in 2011 and TWP Holdings (Proprietary) Limited (“TWP”) in 2013 gives WorleyParsons’ customers access to the specialized underground mine planning and engineering capabilities, mineral processing and project management solutions of TWP.\n\nIn 2012, WorleyParsons purchased a 50% share in a joint venture company with Cergetec in Canada.\n\nIn 2013, WorleyParsons acquired Bergen Group Rosenberg AS (“Rosenberg”). Rosenberg is a wholly owned subsidiary of Bergen Group ASA, a listed Norwegian company.\n\nIn 2014, WorleyParsons acquired MTG, Ltd. MTG is a US based management consulting firm in the oil and gas, petrochemicals and chemicals industries with operations in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nIn October 2018, WorleyParsons reached an agreement with Jacobs to take over Jacobs' ECR business line for $3.3 billion. The deal will be made effective by mid-2019. The total number of employees of the combined organisation is anticipated to be 57,800.\n"}
