{"id": "9908355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9908355", "title": "Articulation Index", "text": "Articulation Index\n\nIn audiology, the Articulation Index (AI) is a tool used to predict the amount of speech that is audible to a patient with a specific hearing loss. The AI figure for a given patient can range from zero to one, representing the proportion of the average speech signal that is audible. The closer the AI is to one, or 100 percent, the better the person should be able to hear speech. The calculation is also used in industrial settings for the design of safety devices, such as flight helmets, where audio signals are required to be clearly heard.\n\nThe AI is often used as a counseling tool since it presents an individual’s hearing loss in terms of percentage of speech missed during a typical one-on-one conversation. The AI can also be used to measure the effectiveness of hearing aids and other forms of amplification devices. \n\nSince the creation of the AI, there have been several proposed ways to simplify and increase its use. In 1990, Gustav Mueller and Mead Killion proposed an AI calculation involving one hundred dots on an audiogram, each of which represented an important speech frequency; the proportion of dots audible to the listener estimates the patient's AI. Unfortunately, not all areas on the audiogram (taking into account frequencies and intensity levels) are equally weighted. According to this procedure, the highest density of the audiogram dots is concentrated in the frequency region of 1-3 kHz, since this is the region containing the most speech information.\n\nIn many industrial settings noise exposure metrics have been established to quantify human exposure to sound. In aerospace settings the Speech Intelligibility Index (SII), published in 1986 by the American National Standards Institute, is a major revision of the AI standard and defines computational methods \"that produce highly correlated with the intelligibility of speech under a variety of adverse listening conditions, such as noise masking, filtering and reverberation\".\n\n\nAmlani, A., Punch, J., and Ching, T. (2002), \"Methods and Applications of the Audibility Index in Hearing Aid Selection and Fitting\" in \"Trends in Amplification\", 6(3), pp.81-129: \n\nMueller, G. and Killion, M. (1990), \"An Easy Method for Calculating the Articulation Index\" in \"The Hearing Journal\", 43(9), pp.14-17: \n\nFrench, N.R. and Steinberg, J.C. (1947), \"Factors governing the intelligibility of speech sounds\" in \"J Acoust Soc Am\", 19, p.90: \n\nKryter, K.D. (1962), \"Methods for the calculation and use of the Articulation Index\" in \"J Acoust Soc Am\", 34(11): pp.1689-1697.\n\nKryter, K.D. (1962), \"Validation of the Articulation Index\" in \"J Acoust Soc Am\", 34(11): pp.1668: . \n"}
{"id": "34798461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34798461", "title": "Asthma &amp; Bronchitis Association of India", "text": "Asthma &amp; Bronchitis Association of India\n\nThe Asthma and Bronchitis Association of India (ABAI) was founded in 1984 at the pulmonary function laboratory of St. George's Hospital in Mumbai. It is one of the earliest nonprofit, non-governmental organizations solely dedicated to improving education and awareness for all asthma and allergy patients in India. It organizes several activities famed at improving asthma patients' well-being, including:\n\n\nThe association also works to increase awareness about asthma in India, particularly in Mumbai. It has published articles in newspapers including The Times of India, Mumbai Mirror , DNA, Hindustan Times, and many others.\n\nThe association has over 10,000 registered members and over 500 active volunteers. It has 3 reputed chest physicians and asthma specialists on its core panel. Though it still operates from its initial location at St. George's Hospital, ABAI has another satellite office at the Asthma Allergy Clinic in central Mumbai.\n"}
{"id": "6117949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6117949", "title": "Autophagia", "text": "Autophagia\n\nAutophagia (eating one's own body) is not classified as a mental disorder or a symptom of a mental disorder in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM), the diagnostic manual used in the United States. However, Autophagia could be classified under the DSM's Impulse-Control Disorders Not Elsewhere Classified. Impulse-Control Disorders involve failing to resist an impulse, drive, or temptation to perform an act that is harmful to the person or to others. The majority of individuals affected by this disorder will often feel a sense of tension or arousal before committing the act, and then experience pleasure, gratification or relief at the time of committing the act. Once the act has been completed, the individual may or may not feel regret, self-reproach, or guilt.\n\nAutophagia occurs when one is compelled to inflict pain upon oneself by biting and/or devouring portions of one's body. It is sometimes seen with schizophrenia, psychosis and Lesch–Nyhan syndrome.\n\nSimilar behavior has been observed in laboratory rats in experiments looking at spinal cord and peripheral nerve injuries. The resulting behavior consists of the rats licking and then chewing their nails, and the tips of their toes. In extreme cases, the rats will chew off whole toes or even the foot. In order to get rid of this behavior, researchers applied a series of evaporative, bitter-tasting mixtures (combination of Metronidazol and New Skin) on the rat's limb because most animals avoid chewing anything with a bitter taste. After testing this mixture on 24 rats with spinal cord injuries, only one rat had chewed its toes after a 2-3 week period.\n\n"}
{"id": "23448819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23448819", "title": "Celobar incident", "text": "Celobar incident\n\nThe Celobar incident was a pharmaceutical fraud that occurred in Brazil in 2003, and resulted in the death of more than twenty X-ray patients by barium poisoning.\n\nLaboratório Enila was a small Brazilian pharmaceutics manufacturer who made an oral X-ray contrast medium trademarked Celobar. The medium's main ingredient was pharmaceutics-grade barium sulfate (BaSO) imported from Germany. In 2003, without having the necessary expertise or authorization, they tried to manufacture BaSO in-house from much-cheaper technical-grade barium carbonate (BaCO).\n\nNon-reacted carbonate and other barium salts that remained in the adulterated product killed nine patients. The first death was Ricardo Diomedes, who had taken Celobar on May 21, 2003 at a clinic in Nova Iguaçu near Rio de Janeiro. A few hours later he was suffering from vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pains, and weakness; he died the next day in Nilópolis. Postmortem exams confirmed that barium poisoning was the cause of death. Analysis of the Celobar by the Oswaldo Cruz Institute showed up to 14% unreacted carbonate (the maximum allowed limit being 0.001%). The other eight deaths occurred in the state of Goiás, where most of the contaminated lot had been shipped. (Coincidentally the same state as the Goiânia accident.)\n\nAuthorities were warned after the first deaths, recalled the lot, and closed the laboratory, which eventually went bankrupt.\n\nOn January 29, 2009, Enila's CEO (Márcio D'Icahahy Câmara Lima), and the chemist who carried out the synthesis (Antônio Carlos Fonseca da Silva) were sentenced to 20 and 22 years in jail, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "22589449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22589449", "title": "Charles McPhee", "text": "Charles McPhee\n\nCharles Lambert McPhee (April 24, 1962 – May 8, 2011) was a researcher, author, and nationally syndicated talk radio host. On his call-in program, “The Dream Doctor Show,” which began in 2000, he interpreted dreams for people. He was a nephew of best-selling author John McPhee.\n\nMcPhee had worked in the dream and sleep disorder fields for over 25 years. He spent his career studying dreams and sleep patterns. He graduated from Princeton University in 1985. He also held a master’s degree in communication management from the University of Southern California (1990). He received his board certification to perform polysomnographic testing for the diagnosis and treatment of sleep disorders in 1992. His dream interpretations and other writings have appeared on the AOL homepage, the Ladies Room and Predictions section of supanet.com, the UK's leading online source for news and information services, and \"Trader Magazine\".\n\nKnown as the Dream Doctor, he was the author of three books, an online column, and a magazine column. He hosted the nationally syndicated Dream Doctor Radio Show from 2000 to 2006. His books included \"Stop Sleeping Through Your Dreams: A Guide to Awakening Consciousness During Dream Sleep\" (Henry Holt and Co., NY, 1996) and \"Ask the Dream Doctor: An A to Z Guide to Deciphering the Hidden Symbols of Your Dreams\", (Random House, NY, 2002).\n\nMcPhee had been the Director of the Sleep Apnea Patient Treatment Program at the Sleep Disorders Center of Santa Barbara, California. He had also worked as a coordinator of the Sleep Disorders Center at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California, and sleep research laboratory at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\nHe also suffered from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.\n\nMcPhee has been cited in numerous newspaper and magazine articles about dreams and dream interpretation, including \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\". In addition to appearing as a dream expert on CNN, he was the host of the popular Dream Doctor Radio Show, heard weeknights for six years across the country, during which he interpreted thousands of dreams.\n\n\nMcPhee hosted the popular Dream Doctor Radio Show for six years. The show started on KRUZ-FM (HOT AC) in Santa Barbara, California, in 2000. In two years, the show became the #1 show in the market for its time slot for adults aged 25–54. In October 2002, Cox Radio signed McPhee and moved the show to Atlanta. The show, featuring adult contemporary (AC) music and four dream interpretations per hour, was expanded to five hours every weeknight. Emanating from flagship WSB-FM (Soft AC), the show was picked up by FM AC music stations in major markets, including Miami, Denver, Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, San Antonio, and Tampa. Cox made was among the first syndicators to provide a customizable FTP version of the show for stations that wanted to play their own music and format the show with more dream interpretations.\n\nThe radio stations that ran more dream interpretations did markedly better than those that did not. The show did well, but audience research revealed that there was a problem with the show. The audience far preferred listening to McPhee and his dream interpretations than to the music. In 2004, McPhee's manager, George Oliva, started a radio syndication company, Springhill Syndication, to distribute a version of the show without music. He moved McPhee back to California and launched the new three-hour talk show on November 11, 2004. The program was picked up by newstalk, talk, and even music stations in markets that included Houston, Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, Las Vegas, West Palm Beach, Monterrey, and Hartford. A one-minute feature devoted to the meaning of the most common dream symbols played in a number of markets, including New York and Los Angeles. A weekend show expanded the reach of the Dream Doctor to markets that included San Francisco and Hartford.\n\nIn March 2006, McPhee became aware of problems with his voice. After a number of tests, he was diagnosed with probable amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) (Lou Gehrig's disease) in June 2006. After the diagnosis was confirmed in August 2006, McPhee announced the news to his audience that he had Bulbar ALS, a severe form of the disease. The final Dream Doctor Radio Show was broadcast on October 20, 2006.\n\nMcPhee launched www.dreamdoctor.com in 1997. It was among the first sites on the Internet devoted entirely to providing credible information about dreams and sleep. Through it, he had amassed the largest database of dreams in the world. With it, he broke their code. Taking a scientific approach to dream interpretation and understanding, he used the database to arrive at his findings about dreams, all of which are evidenced in his writings, radio show, and web site. He concluded that everyone dreams in the same language of dream symbols, regardless of age, gender, geography, culture, religion, or native language. As all languages evolve and are influenced by contextual realities ranging from personal experience to regionalisms, so, contended McPhee, does the language of dreams. He added that what makes every dream unique and specific to the dreamer is the waking life background that generated the dream.\n\nDue to his illness and its increasingly severe physical limitations, McPhee focused his professional efforts on his web site. In August 2009, the site was upgraded. In addition to thousands of free pages of information about dreams and sleep, it now gives users access to audio and video clips of McPhee as well as a unique dream interpretation tool called the Dream Wizard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2050909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2050909", "title": "Child psychopathology", "text": "Child psychopathology\n\nChild psychopathology refers to the scientific study of mental disorders in children and adolescents. Oppositional defiant disorder, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, and autism spectrum disorder are examples of psychopathology that are typically first diagnosed during childhood. Mental health providers who work with children and adolescents are informed by research in developmental psychology, clinical child psychology, and family systems. Lists of child and adult mental disorders can be found in the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems, 10th Edition (ICD-10), published by the World Health Organization (WHO) and in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", Fifth Edition (DSM-5), published by the American Psychiatric Association (APA). In addition, the \"Diagnostic Classification of Mental Health and Developmental Disorders of Infancy and Early Childhood\" (DC: 0-3R) is used in assessing mental health and developmental disorders in children up to age five.\n\nThe etiology of child psychopathology has many explanations which differ from case to case. Many psychopathological disorders in children involve genetic and physiological mechanisms, though there are still many without any physical grounds. It is absolutely imperative that multiple sources of data be gathered. \"Diagnosing the psychopathology of children is daunting. It is influenced by development and contest, in addition to the traditional sources. Interviews with parents about school, etc., are inadequate. Either reports from teachers or direct observation by the professional are critical.\" (author, Robert B. Bloom, Ph.D.) The disorders with physical or biological mechanisms are easier to diagnose in children and are often diagnosed earlier in childhood. However, there are some disorders, no matter the mechanisms, that are not identified until adulthood. There is also reason to believe that there is co-morbidity of disorders, in that if one disorder is present, there is often another.\n\nEmotional stress or trauma in the parent-child relationship tends to be a cause of child psychopathology. First seen in infants, separation anxiety in root of parental-child stress may lay the foundations for future disorders in children. There is a direct correlation between maternal stress and child stress that is factored in both throughout adolescences development. In a situation where the mother is absent, any primary caregiver to the child could be seen as the \"maternal\" relationship. Essentially, the child would bond with the primary caregiver, exuding some personality traits of the caregiver.\n\nIn studies of child in two age groups of pregnancy to five years, and fifteen years and twenty years, Raposa and colleagues (2011) studied the impact of psychopathology in the child-maternal relationship and how not only the mothers stress affected the child, but the child's stress affected the mother. Historically, it was believed that mothers who suffered from post partum depression might be the reason their child suffers from mental disorders both earlier and later in development. However this correlation was found to not only reflect maternal depression on child psychopathology, but also child psychopathology could reflect on maternal depression.\n\nChildren with a predisposition to psychopathology may cause higher stress in the relationship with their mother, and mothers who suffer from psychopathology may also cause higher stress in the relationship with their child. Child psychopathology creates stress in parenting which may increase the severity of the psychopathology within the child. Together, these factors push and pull the relationship thus causing higher levels of depression, ADHD, defiant disorder, learning disabilities, and pervasive developmental disorder in both the mother and the child. The outline and summary of this study is found below:\n\"\"In looking at child-related stress, the number of past child mental health diagnoses significantly predicted a higher number of acute stressors for mothers as well as more chronic stress in the mother-child relationship at age 15. These increased levels of maternal stress and mother-child relationship stress at age 15 then predicted higher levels of maternal depression when the youth were 20 years old.\n\nLooking more closely at the data, the authors found that it was the chronic stress in the mother-child relationship and the child-related acute stressors that were the linchpins between child psychopathology and maternal depression. The stress is what fueled the fires between mother and child mental health. Going one step further, the researchers found that youth with a history of more than one diagnosis as well as youth that had externalizing disorders (e.g., conduct disorder) had the highest number of child-related stressors and the highest levels of mother-child stress. Again, all of the findings held up when other potentially stressful variables, such as economic worries and past maternal depression, were controlled for.\n\nAdditionally, siblings- both older and younger and of both genders, can be factored into the etiology and development of child psychopathology. In a longitudinal study of maternal depression and older male child depression and antisocial behaviors on younger siblings adolescent mental health outcome. The study factored in ineffective parenting and sibling conflicts such as sibling rivalry. Younger female siblings were more directly affected by maternal depression and older brother depression and anti social behaviors when the indirect effects were not place, in comparison to younger male siblings who showed no such comparison. However, if an older brother were anti-social, the younger child- female or male would exude higher anti-social behaviors. In the presence of a sibling conflict, anti social behavior was more influential on younger male children than younger female children. Female children were more sensitive to pathological familial environments, thus showing that in a high- stress environment with both maternal depression and older- male sibling depression and anti social behavior, there is a higher risk of female children developing psychopathological disorders. This was a small study, and more research needs to be done especially with older female children, paternal relationships, maternal-paternal-child stress relationships, and/or caregiver-child stress relationships if the child is orphaned or not being raised by the biological child to reach a conclusive child-parent stress model on the effects of familial and environmental pathology on the child's development.\n\nThe child-parent stress and development is only one hypothesis for the etiology of child psychopathology. Other experts believe that child temperament is a large factor in the development of child psychopathology. High susceptibility to child psychopathology is marked by low levels of effortful control and high levels of emotionality and neuroticism. Parental divorce is often a large factor in childhood depression and other psychopathological disorders. This is more so when the divorce involves a long-drawn separation and one parent bad-mouthing the other. That is not to say that divorce will lead to psychopathological disorders, there are also other factors such as temperament, trauma, and other negative life events (e.g. death, sudden moving of home, physical or sexual abuse), genetics, environment, and nurture that correlate to the onset of a disorder. Research has also shown that child maltreatment may increase risk for various forms of psychopathology as it increases threat sensitivity, decreases responsivity to reward, and causes deficits in emotion recognition and understanding.\n\nFound in \"The Role of Temperament in the Etiology of Child Psychopathology\", a model for the etiology of child psychopathology by Vasey and Dadds (2001) proposed that the four things that are important to the development of psychopathological disorders is: 1) biological factors: hormones, genetics, neurotransmitters 2) psychological: self-esteem, coping skills, cognitive issues 3) social factors: family rearing, negative learning experiences, and stress 4) child's temperament. Using an array of neurological scans and exams, psychological evaluations, family medical history, and observing the child in daily factors can help the physician find the etiology of the psychopathological disorder to help release the child of the symptoms through therapy, medication use, social skills training, and life style changes.\n\nChild psychopathology can cause separation anxiety from parents, attention deficit disorders in children, sleep disorders in children, aggression with both peers and adults, night terrors, extreme anxiety, anti social behavior, depression symptoms, aloof attitude, sensitive emotions, and rebellious behavior that are not in line of typical childhood development. Aggression is found to manifest in children before five years of age, and early stress and aggression in the parental-child relationship correlates with the manifestation of aggression. Aggression in children causes problematic peer relationships, difficulty adjusting, and coping problems. Children who fail to overcome acceptable ways of coping and emotion expression are put on tract for psychopathological disorders and violent and anti social behaviors into adolescence and adulthood. There is a higher rate of substance abuse in these children with coping and aggression issues, and causes a cycle of emotional instability and manifestation psychopathological disorders.\n\nBorderline personality disorder (BPD) is one of many psychopathology disorders a child can suffer from. In the neurobiological scheme, borderline personality disorder may have effects on the left amygdala. In a 2003 study of BPD patients versus control patients, when faced with expressions that were happy, sad, or fearful BPD patients showed significantly more activation versus control patients. In neutral faces, BPD patients attributed negative qualities to these faces.\nAs stated by Gabbard, an experimenter in this study:\n\"A hyperactive amygdala may be involved in the predisposition to be hyper vigilant and over reactive to relatively benign emotional expressions. Misreading neutral faces is clearly related to transference misreadings that occur in psychotherapy and the creation of bad object experiences linked with projective identification.\"\n\nAlso linked to BPD, is the presence of serotonin transporter (5-HTT) in a short allele demonstrated larger amygdala neuronal activity when presented with fearful stimuli as in comparison to individuals with a long allele of 5-HTT. As found in the Dunedin Longitudinal Study a short allele of 5-HTT predisposes the person to have hyperactivity in the amygdala in response to trauma, and thus moderated the impact of stressful life events leading to a higher risk of depression and suicidal idealities. These same qualities were not observed in individuals with long alleles of 5-HTT. However, the environment the child is in can change in impact of this gene, proving that correct treatment, intensive social support, and a healthy and nurturing environment can modify genetic vulnerability.\n\nPossibly the most studied or documented of the child psychopathologies is attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) which is marked with learning disabilities, mood disorders, and/or aggression. Though believed to be over diagnosed, ADHD is highly comorbid for other disorders such as depression and obsessive compulsive disorder. In studies of the prefrontal cortex in ADHD children, which is responsible for the regulation of behavior, cognition, and attention; and in the dopamine system there has been identified a hidden genetic polymorphisms. More specific, the 7-repeat allele of the dopamine D4 receptor gene, responsible for inhibited prefrontal cortex cognition and less efficient receptors, causes more externalized behaviors such as aggression since the child has trouble \"thinking through\" seemingly ordinary and at level childhood tasks.\n\nAgenesis of the corpus callosum (ACC) is used to determine the frequency of social and behavioral problems in children with a prevalence rate of about 2-3%. ACC is described as a defect in the brain where the 200 million axons that make the corpus collosum are either completely absent, or partially gone. In many cases, the anterior commissure is still present to allow for the passing of information from one cerebral hemisphere to the other. The children are of normal intelligence level. For younger children, ages two to five, Agenesis of the corpus callosum causes problems in sleep. Sleep is critical for development in children, and lack of sleep can set the grounds for a manifestation of psychopathological disorders. In children ages six to eleven, ACC showed manifestation in problems with social function, thought, attention, and somatic grievances. In comparison, of children with autism, children with ACC showed less impairment on almost all scales such as anxiety and depression, attention, abnormal thoughts, and social function versus autistic children. However, a small percentage of children with ACC showed traits that may lead to the diagnosis of autism in the areas of social communications and social interactions but do not show the same symptoms of autism in the repetitive and restricted behaviors category. The difficulties from ACC may lead to the etiology of child psychopathological disorders, such as depression or ADHD and manifest many autistic-like disorders that can cause future psychological disorders in later adolescence.\nThe etiology of child psychopathology is a multi-factor path. A slew of factors must be taken into account before diagnosis of a disorder.\n\nThe child's genetics, environment, temperament, past medical history, family medical history, prevalence of symptoms and neuro-anatomical structures are all factors that should be considered when diagnosing a child with a psychopathological disorder. Thousands of children each year are misdiagnosed and put on the wrong treatment, which may result in the manifestation of other disorders the child would have not have gotten else wise. There are hundreds of causes of psychopathological disorders, and each one manifests at different ages and stages in child development and can come out due to trauma and stress. Some disorders may \"disappear\" and reappear in the presence of a trauma, depression, or stress similar to the one that brought the disorder out in the child in the beginning.\n\nIt is estimated that 5% of children under the age of eight suffer from a psychopathology disorder. Girls more frequently manifested disorders than boys in similar situations. By age sixteen about thirty percent of children will have fit the criteria for at least one psychopathology disorder. Only a small number of these children receive treatment for their disorder. Anxiety and depression disorders in children- whether noted or unnoted, are found to be a precursor for similar episodes in adulthood. Usually a large stressor similar to the one the person experienced in childhood brings out the anxiety or depression in adulthood.\n\nMultifinality refers to the idea that two children can react to same stressful event quite differently, and may display divergent types of problem behavior. Psychopathological disorders are extremely situational- having to take into account the child, the genetics, the environment, the stressor, and many other factors to tailor the best type of treatment to relieve the child of the psychopathology symptoms.\n\nMany child psychopathology disorders are treated with control medications prescribed by a pediatrician or psychiatrist. After extensive evaluation of the child through school visits, by psychologists and physicians, a medication can be prescribed. A patient may need to go through several trials of medicines to find the best fit, as many cause uncomfortable and undesired side effects- such as dry mouth or suicidal thoughts can occur. There are many classes of drugs a physician can choose from and they are: psychostimulants, beta blockerss, atypical antipsychotics, lithium, alpha-2 agonists, traditional antipsychotics, SSRIs, and anticonvulsant mood- stabilizers. Given the multifinality of psychopathological disorders, two children may be on the same medication for two completely different disorders, or have the same disorder and be taking two completely different medications.\n\nADHD is the most successfully treated disorder of child psychopathology, and the medications used have a high- abuse rate especially among college-aged students. Psycho stimulants such as Ritalin, amphetamine- related stimulant drugs: e.g., Adderall, and antidepressants such as Wellbutrin have been successfully used to treat ADHD with a 78% success rate. Many of these drug treatment options are paired with behavioral treatment such as therapy or social skills lessons.\n\nLithium has shown to be extremely effective in treating ADHD and bipolar disorder. Lithium treats both mania and depression and helps prevent relapse. The mechanism of lithium include the inhibition of GSK-3, it is a glutamate antagonism at NMDA receptors that together make lithium a neuroprotective medicine. The drug relieves bipolar symptoms, aggressiveness and irritability. Lithium has many, many side effects and requires weekly blood tests to tests for toxicity of the drug. \n\nMedications that act on cell membrane ion channels, are GABA inhibitory neurotransmission, and also inhibit excitatory glutamate transmission have shown to be extremely effective in treating an array of child psychopathological disorders. Pharmaceutical companies are in the process of creating new drugs and improving those on the market to help avoid negative and possibly life altering short term and long term side effects, making drugs more safe to use in younger children and over long periods of time during adolescent development.\n\nThe future of child psychopathology- etiology and treatment has a two-way path. While many professionals agree that many children who suffer from a disorder do not receive proper treatment, at the rate of 5-15% that receive treatment leaving many children in the dark. In the same boat are the physicians who also say that not only do more of these disorders need to be recognized in children and treated properly, but also even those children who show some qualifying symptoms of a disorder but not to the degree of diagnosis should also receive treatment and therapy to avoid the manifestation of the disorder. By treating children even with slight degrees of a psychopathological disorder, children can show improvements in their relationships with peers, family, and teachers and also improvements in school, mental health, and personal development. Many physicians believe the best prevention and help starts in the home and the school of the child, before physicians and psychologists are contacted.\n\nSo while there is more awareness of child psychopathological disorders and more research to prevent and effectively treat these disorders to maintain healthy emotional health in children, there is also a negative factor in that parents, schools, and psychologists may be more sensitive and therefore over-diagnose children with these disorders. Mental health professionals and pharmaceutical marketing companies need to be cautious of making disorders too readily diagnosed and treated with medications.\n\nChild psychopathology is a real thing that thousands of children suffer from. While hundreds of children are diagnosed with a new disorder daily, researchers are developing new strategies to beat these disorders in children to allow all children the right to a happy and healthy childhood. With further education on the symptoms and implications of child psychopathology, psychologists and physicians will improve their accuracy in diagnosing children- giving the right diagnosis and discovering the most helpful treatment and therapies for children.\n\nThe current trend in the U.S. is to understand child psychopathology from a systems based perspective called developmental psychopathology. Recent emphasis has also been on understanding psychological disorders from a relational perspective with attention also given to neurobiology. Practitioners who follow attachment theory believe that early attachment experiences of children can promote adaptive strategies or lay the groundwork for maladaptive ways of coping which can later lead to mental health disorders.\n\nResearch and clinical work on child psychopathology tends to fall under several main areas: etiology, epidemiology, diagnosis, assessment, and treatment.\n\nParents are considered a reliable source of information because they spend more time with children than any other adult. A child's psychopathology can be connected to parental behaviors. Clinicians and researchers have experienced problems with children's self-reports and rely on adults to provide the information.\n"}
{"id": "648640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648640", "title": "Coinfection", "text": "Coinfection\n\nIn microbiology, coinfection is the simultaneous infection of a host by multiple pathogen species. In virology, coinfection includes simultaneous infection of a single cell by two or more virus particles. An example is the coinfection of liver cells with hepatitis B virus and hepatitis D virus, which can arise incrementally by initial infection followed by superinfection.\n\nGlobal prevalence or incidence of coinfection among humans is unknown, but it is thought to be commonplace, sometimes more common than single infection. Coinfection with helminths affects around 800 million people worldwide.\n\nCoinfection is of particular human health importance because pathogen species can interact within the host. The net effect of coinfection on human health is thought to be negative. Interactions can have either positive or negative effects on other parasites. Under positive parasite interactions, disease transmission and progression are enhanced and this is also known as syndemism. Negative parasite interactions include microbial interference when one bacterial species suppresses the virulence or colonisation of other bacteria, such as \"Pseudomonas aeruginosa\" suppressing pathogenic \"Staphylococcus aureus\" colony formation. The general patterns of ecological interactions between parasite species are unknown, even among common coinfections such as those between sexually transmitted infections. However, network analysis of a food web of coinfection in humans suggests that there is greater potential for interactions via shared food sources than via the immune system.\n\nA globally common coinfection involves tuberculosis and HIV. In some countries, up to 80% of tuberculosis patients are also HIV-positive. The potential for dynamics of these two infectious diseases to be linked has been known for decades. Other common examples of coinfections are AIDS, which involves coinfection of end-stage HIV with opportunistic parasites and polymicrobial infections like Lyme disease with other diseases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26445579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26445579", "title": "European Association for Psychotherapy", "text": "European Association for Psychotherapy\n\nThe European Association for Psychotherapy (EAP) is a Vienna-based umbrella organisation for 128 psychotherapist organizations (including 28 national associations and 17 European associations) from 41 countries with a membership of more than 120,000 psychotherapists. Individual members may also join the organisation directly rather than through one of its member organisations.\n\nThe EAP has auspiced much of the European effort from the mid-1990s toward the professionalisation of psychotherapy and the formation of pan-European training standards, ethics and guidelines.\n\nIts President is currently Philippe Vrancken (Belgium), the General Secretary of the EAP is Prof. Eugenijus Laurinaitis (Lithuania).\n\nThe association is based on the \"Strasbourg Declaration on Psychotherapy\" of 1990 whereby the EAP promotes the need for high standards of training on a scientific basis, and fights for free and independent exercise of psychotherapy in Europe. Important activities include:\n\n\nPublication of the \"International Journal of Psychotherapy\" , a professional journal with 3 issues per annum.\n\n"}
{"id": "1640192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640192", "title": "FDA v. Brown &amp; Williamson Tobacco Corp.", "text": "FDA v. Brown &amp; Williamson Tobacco Corp.\n\nFDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., 529 U.S. 120 (2000), is an important United States Supreme Court case in the development of American administrative law. It ruled that the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act did not give the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the authority to regulate tobacco products as \"drugs\" or \"devices\".\n\nThe scope of authority held by an agency is determined by the agency's organic statute. Where Congress repeatedly denies an agency the power to regulate a particular area, and develops a comprehensive regulatory scheme outside the control of the agency, the agency may not regulate that area.\n\nNote: The approach in this case balances the approach of \"US v. Southwestern Cable Co.\". Whereas \"Southwestern Cable\" allowed an agency to regulate areas not explicitly contemplated by the statute when necessary to fulfill its ultimate goal even when legislative efforts to gain such power failed, \"FDA\" does not allow agencies to regulate areas for which Congress has developed a separate statutory scheme.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration (FDA) attempted to regulate tobacco products. Tobacco companies challenged the regulations. The District Court granted in part and denied in part the plaintiff's claim. The Circuit Court reversed, ruling for the tobacco company.\n\nThe Supreme Court ultimately affirmed the Circuit Court's ruling for the tobacco company, ruling that the FDA did not have the power to enact and enforce the regulations in question.\n\nThe FDA's authority to regulate came from the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). The FDA argued that nicotine was a \"drug\" and cigarettes and smokeless tobacco are \"devices\" that deliver nicotine to the body within the meaning of the FDCA. Congress had enacted a number of tobacco-specific laws after the FDCA, and the FDA had never exercised any control over tobacco. The Court concluded in light of this that Congress did not intend to give the FDA the power to regulate tobacco, and that the regulations were therefore invalid.\n\nThis decision was overridden by the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act of 2009, which gave the FDA the authority to regulate the tobacco industry and control the level of nicotine in cigarettes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30327862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30327862", "title": "Farm-to-table", "text": "Farm-to-table\n\nFarm-to-table (or farm-to-fork, and in some cases farm-to-school) is a social movement which promotes serving local food at restaurants and school cafeterias, preferably through direct acquisition from the producer (which might be a winery, brewery, ranch, fishery, or other type of food producer which is not strictly a \"farm\"). This might be accomplished by a direct sales relationship, a community-supported agriculture arrangement, a farmer's market, a local distributor or by the restaurant or school raising its own food. Farm-to-table often incorporates a form of food traceability (celebrated as \"knowing where your food comes from\") where the origin of the food is identified to consumers. Often restaurants cannot source all the food they need for dishes locally, so only some dishes or only some ingredients are labelled as local.\n\nThe farm-to-table movement has arisen more or less concurrently with changes in attitudes about food safety, food freshness, food seasonality, and small-farm economics. Advocates and practitioners of the farm-to-table model frequently cite the scarcity of fresh, local ingredients; the poor flavor of ingredients shipped from afar; the poor nutritional integrity of shipped ingredients; the disappearance of small family farms; the disappearance of heirloom and open-pollinated fruits and vegetables; and the dangers of a highly centralized food growing and distribution system as motivators for their decision to adopted a more locavore approach to the food system.\n\nAmong the first vocal and influential farm-to-table businesses were: Chez Panisse restaurant in Berkeley, California, The Herbfarm in Washington, Bon Appétit Management Company based in Palo Alto, California, and The Kitchen in Boulder, Colorado. Since the 2000s, the number of farm-to-table operations has grown rapidly and \"the American Farm to Table Restaurant Guide lists restaurants located in more than 30 states and the District of Columbia\". In 2015, according to the National Restaurant Association \"four of the top ten trends\" related to local foods.\n\nProminent advocates for the farm-to-table movement, either as chefs, writers, farmers, or environmentalists include: Wendell Berry, Wes Jackson, Michael Pollan, Thomas Keller, John Jeavons, Alice Waters, Dan Barber, Joel Salatin, Barbara Kingsolver, Tony Maws, Kevin Gillespie, Edna Lewis, Ken Myszka, Erik Manning and others.\n\nInvestigations by journalists at the \"Tampa Bay Times\" and \"San Diego Magazine\" found widespread fraud in the claims made by area farm-to-table restaurants about where the food they were serving came from. Cases included: restaurant previously bought from that provider but has since switched without updating the menu; restaurant claims to buy from a farmer, but the farmer denies ever having sold to that restaurant; restaurant serving a type of food the cited farmer or fisher has never grown or caught or which is currently out of season or not being provided; restaurant claiming to serve food from a provider which has gone out of business years ago; food from the claimed source makes up only a small portion of the type of food on the plate. In cases where fraudulent claims are being made, the food actually being served is usually non-local or even \"commodity\" food which is cheaper or more available out-of-season. In some cases food claimed to be \"wild caught\", \"preservative-free\", \"made in-house\", \"Fresh from Florida\", or \"Long Island duck\" was not. Such practices open restaurants to lawsuits from the farmer whose name is being used fraudulently, lawsuits from consumers who have purchased mislabelled food products, and enforcement actions by government agencies. \"Tampa Bay Times\" food critic and investigative reporter Laura Reiley attributes fraud in part to the rise of the farm-to-table trend since 2012, the lack of time of restaurants to deal directly with farms whereas they normally would deal with one or two large distributors, and in some cases sheer profit motive.\n\nMore recently restaurateurs have tried to democratize the farm-to-table movement by opening fast-casual restaurants that offer locally sourced food at a relatively affordable price point. Sweetgreen, a farm-to-table salad chain has experienced exponential growth since opening in 2007 in Washington D.C, and now has more than 60 locations across the United States. The salad bar chain, started on the premise of sourcing food as locally as possible. The chain \"works with more than 500 farmers\" to limit the distance food travels across all their locations, requiring each region to build relationships with their local farm community. In New York, another fast casual concept, Dig Inn, has gained popularity with their \"farm-to-counter\" model. In 2016, Dig Inn announced they intend to buy and manage their own farm. While they don't plan to source all their food from their farm, it will be a place for education and to learn \"exactly how things grow\". Both of these restaurant concepts have received noteworthy funding, as investors gain more interest in food startups, particularly those connecting to the local food system. Consumer interest is high enough that Applebee's has even explored the farm-to-table concept. Over the summer of 2014, the chain released a location-specific menu option: the Grilled Vidalia Onion Sirloin, in Georgia. It took six months to plan and was only available for a limited period.\n\nDespite the growth in the farm-to-table restaurants the movement has been met with some criticism. Critics argue the interest in knowing where your food comes from and ensuring it is locality sourced is just another food fad for millennials. Furthermore, the higher price point that many restaurants are forced to demand, given the higher costs of production and lower economies of scale, also make farm-to-table food less accessible for many people. The movement was originally closed tied to \"tree-hugging elitists,\" who were able to afford farm-to-table food. Lastly, critics argue that the farm-to-table term is not fully understood by consumers. For example, foods advertised as farm-to-table are considered healthier regardless of actual nutritional content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18459359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18459359", "title": "Farm assurance", "text": "Farm assurance\n\nFarm assurance is product certification for agricultural products that emphasises the principles of quality assurance. The emphasis on quality assurance means that, in addition to product inspection, farm assurance schemes may include standards and certification for traceability, production methods, transport, and supplies.\n\nAll farm assurance schemes claim to ensure high standards of animal welfare, although there is great variation in the requirements that relate to how animals should be kept and cared for.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Australia, the major farm assurance programmes are based on a quality management system for food safety that originated with the US space agency NASA, known as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP). In these and other countries, assurance is underpinned by principles and standards for good manufacturing practice (GMP), good agricultural practice (GAP), good hygienic practice and good trade practice.\n\nExamples of farm assurance schemes include:\n\nIn 2004, 65% of United Kingdom farm production was farm assured, and by 2006, £6 billion worth of food was packed annually under the United Kingdom's Red Tractor farm assurance mark, including over 90% of the country's pig and dairy production.\n\nSome farm assurance schemes are given legal force, either by use of trademarks or by oversight by government regulators of agriculture and food standards.\nWhile mostly associated with food production, farm assurance can be applied to other agricultural products, such as textiles, flowers, tobacco and biofuels.\n\nIn order to obtain farm product certification, assurance may be required for farm supplies.\nFor example, the UK's Red Tractor scheme is supported by assurance programmes for fodder (UFAS, FEMAS) and fertiliser (FIAS).\n\nOther widely used agricultural quality standards are based entirely on product inspection, and do not rely on other aspects of quality assurance.\nOne example of such a programme is the United States Quality Standards for grading, certification and verification: the USDA beef grades depend on physical attributes of the meat, plus the age of the animal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "611404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=611404", "title": "Fetus in fetu", "text": "Fetus in fetu\n\nFetus in fetu (or foetus in foetu) is a developmental abnormality in which a mass of tissue resembling a fetus forms inside the body. An early example of the phenomenon was described in 1808 by George William Young.\n\nThere are two theories of origin concerning \"fetus in fetu\". One theory is that the mass begins as a normal fetus but becomes enveloped inside its twin. The other theory is that the mass is a highly developed teratoma. \"Fetus in fetu\" is estimated to occur in 1 in 500,000 live births.\n\nA \"fetus in fetu\" can be considered alive, but only in the sense that its component tissues have not yet died or been eliminated. Thus, the life of a \"fetus in fetu\" is akin to that of a tumor in that its cells remain viable by way of normal metabolic activity. However, without the gestational conditions \"in utero\" with the amnion and placenta, a \"fetus in fetu\" can develop into, at best, an especially well differentiated teratoma; or, at worst, a high-grade metastatic teratocarcinoma. In terms of physical maturation, its organs have a working blood supply from the host, but all cases of \"fetus in fetu\" present critical defects, such as no functional brain, heart, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, or urinary tract. Accordingly, while a \"fetus in fetu\" can share select morphological features with a normal fetus, it has no prospect of any life outside of the host twin. Moreover, it poses clear threats to the life of the host twin on whom its own life depends.\n\nThere are two main theories about the development of fetus in fetu.\n\nFetus in fetu may be a very highly differentiated form of dermoid cyst, itself a highly differentiated form of mature teratoma.\n\nFetus in fetu may be a parasitic twin fetus growing within its host twin. Very early in a monozygotic twin pregnancy, in which both fetuses share a common placenta, one fetus wraps around and envelops the other. The enveloped twin becomes a parasite, in that its survival depends on the survival of the host twin, by drawing on the host twin's blood supply. The parasitic twin is anencephalic (without a brain) and lacks some internal organs, and as such is unable to survive on its own. As the host twin has to \"feed\" the enveloped twin from the nutrients received over a single umbilical cord, they usually die before birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "14124460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14124460", "title": "Flame arrester", "text": "Flame arrester\n\nA flame arrester (also spelled arrestor), deflagration arrester,\nor flame trap\nis a device that stops fuel combustion by extinguishing the flame.\n\nFlame arresters are used:\n\nThey are commonly used on:\n\nA flame arrester (also called a deflagration arrester) functions by absorbing the heat from a flame front traveling at sub-sonic velocities, thus dropping the burning gas/air mixture below its auto-ignition temperature: consequently, the flame cannot survive. The heat is absorbed through channels (passages) designed into an element. These channels are chosen and measured as the mesg (Maximum Experimental Safe Gap) of the gas for a particular installation.\nThese passages can be regular, like crimped metal ribbon or wire mesh or a sheet metal plate with punched holes, or irregular, such as those in random packing.\n\nThe required size of the channels needed to stop the flame front can vary significantly, depending on the flammability of the fuel mixture. The large openings on a chain link fence are capable of slowing the spread of a small, slow-burning grass fire, but fast-burning grass fires will penetrate the fence unless the holes are very small. In a coal mine containing highly explosive coal dust or methane, the wire mesh of a Davy lamp must be very tightly spaced.\n\nFor flame arresters used as a safety device, the mesh must be protected from damage due to being dropped or struck by another object, and the mesh must be capable of rigidly retaining its shape during the propagation of a flame front. Any shifting of the individual wires that make up the mesh can create an opening large enough to allow the flame to penetrate and spread beyond the barrier.\n\nOn a fuel storage vent, flame arresters also serve a secondary purpose of allowing air pressure to equalize inside the tank when fuel is added or removed, while also preventing insects from flying or crawling into the vent piping and fouling the fuel in the tanks and pipes.\n\nFlame arresters should be used only in the gas group and conditions they have been designed and tested for. Since the depth on an arrester is specified for certain conditions, changes in the temperature, pressure, or composition of the gases entering the arrester can cause the flame spatial velocity to increase, making the design of the arrester insufficient to stop the flame front (\"propagation\"). The deflagration may continue downstream of the arrester.\n\nFlame arresters should be periodically inspected to make sure they are free of dirt, insects using it as a nest, or corrosion. The U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board concluded that an uninspected and badly corroded flame arrester failed to prevent a 2006 explosion at a wastewater treatment plant in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "16541374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16541374", "title": "Healthcare in Thailand", "text": "Healthcare in Thailand\n\nA system providing universal health care for Thai nationals has been established since 2002.\n\nHealth and medical care is overseen by the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), along with several other non-ministerial government agencies. Total national expenditure on health amounted to 4.3% of GDP in 2009.\n\nMost services in Thailand are delivered by the public sector, which by 2010, included 1,002 hospitals and 9,765 health stations. Universal health care is provided through three programs: the civil service welfare system for civil servants and their families, Social Security for private employees, and the universal coverage scheme that is theoretically available to all other Thai nationals. Some private hospitals are participants in the programs, but most are financed by patient self-payment and private insurance. According to the World Bank, under Thailand’s health schemes, 99.5 percent of the population have health protection coverage.\n\nThe MOPH oversees national health policy and also operates most government health facilities. The National Health Security Office (NHSO) allocates funding through the universal coverage program. Other health-related government agencies include the Health System Research Institute (HSRI), Thai Health Promotion Foundation (\"ThaiHealth\"), National Health Commission Office (NHCO), and the Emergency Medical Institute of Thailand (EMIT). Although there have been national policies for decentralization, there has been resistance in implementing such changes and the MOPH still directly controls most aspects of health care.\n\nThailand introduced universal coverage reforms in 2001, one of only a handful of lower-middle income countries to do so. Means-tested health care for low-income households was replaced by a new and more comprehensive insurance scheme, originally known as the 30 baht project, in line with the small co-payment charged for treatment. People joining the scheme receive a gold card, which allows them to access services in their health district and, if necessary, to be referred for specialist treatment elsewhere.\n\nThe bulk of health financing comes from public revenues, with funding allocated to contracting units for primary care annually on a population basis. According to the WHO, 65 percent of Thailand's health care expenditure in 2004 came from the government, while 35 percent was from private sources. Thailand achieved universal coverage with relatively low levels of spending on health, but it faces significant challenges: rising costs, inequalities, and duplication of resources.\n\nAlthough the reforms have received a good deal of criticism, they have proved popular with poorer Thais, especially in rural areas, and they survived the change of government after the 2006 military coup. Then, Public Health Minister, Mongkol Na Songkhla, abolished the 30 baht co-payment and made the scheme free. It is not yet clear whether the scheme will be modified further under the military government that came to power in May 2014.\n\nIn 2009, annual spending on health care amounted to 345 international dollars per person in purchasing power parity (PPP). Total expenditures represented about 4.3 percent of gross domestic product (GDP). Of this amount, 75.8 percent came from public sources and 24.2 percent from private sources. Physician density was 2.98 per 10,000 population in 2004, with 22 hospital beds per 100,000 population in 2002.\n\nData for utilization of health services in 2008 includes: 81% contraceptive prevalence, 80% antenatal care coverage with at least four visits, 99% of births attended by skilled health personnel, 98% measles immunization coverage among one-year-olds, and 82% success in treatment of smear-positive tuberculosis. Improved drinking-water sources were available to 98% of the population, and 96% were using improved sanitation facilities.\n\nMost hospitals in Thailand are operated by the Ministry of Public Health. Private hospitals are regulated by the Medical Registration Division. Other government units and public organisations also operate hospitals, including the military, universities, local governments and the Red Cross.\n\nDifferent provinces in Thailand are arranged into different health districts by region. Each health district is responsible for about 3-6 million people living in those provinces. It aims to provide better quality medical services for citizens within that region and increased efficiency in terms of transferring patients to other hospitals if there is a lack in capability of care within that district. Health districts in Thailand are organised into the following categories, as of August 2017:\n\nThailand has an unconventional approach to providing first responders in an emergency: it sends volunteers. Some 65 percent of emergency cases in Bangkok are handled by volunteers. Fully equipped ambulances with professional staff are sent only if required. \n\nThere are three levels of medical emergency help in Thailand, from first responder (FR) level to basic life support (BLS) level, and advanced life support (ALS) level. Most volunteers have attained the FR level. They are affiliated with foundations and local administrative bodies.\nThailand's Medical Emergency Hotline centre responds to about 1.5 million medical emergencies each year. About a million involved FR teams transporting patients to medical facilities. BLS and ALS teams handled about 200,000 cases each.\n\nTwo organizations, the Poh Teck Tung Foundation and the Ruamkatanyu Foundation, are the two largest free first responders in Bangkok. They rely on private donations, but sometimes volunteers must use their own money to buy vehicles, gas, uniforms, and medical equipment. Volunteers are not allowed to accept money from hospitals or from victims. The volunteers say they do this to help people or as a way to earn karma for the next life. The training level of volunteers is not high, just 24 hours. The National Institute of Emergency Medicine (NIEMS) is seeking to increase minimum training to 40 hours, a move initially opposed by the Rescue Network of Thailand, an association of voluntary first responders. \n\nNot all first responder organizations are altruistic. Significant money must be at stake as, sometimes, competition for patients between organizations leads to turf wars and even gun play.\n\n"}
{"id": "3838893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3838893", "title": "Hiroshima Maidens", "text": "Hiroshima Maidens\n\nThe Hiroshima Maidens are a group of 25 Japanese women who were school age girls when they were seriously disfigured as a result of the thermal flash of the fission bomb dropped on Hiroshima on the morning of August 6, 1945. They subsequently went on a highly publicized journey to get reconstructive surgery in the US in 1955.\n\nKeloid scars from their burns marred their faces and many of their hand burns healed into bent claw-like positions. These women, as well as the other citizens affected by the A-bomb, were referred to as hibakusha, meaning \"explosion-affected people\".\nBy 1951, Hiroshima bomb survivor Shigeko Niimoto had endured several unsuccessful Japanese operations to repair scarring on her face. Following a Christian church meeting with Reverend Kiyoshi Tanimoto, he invited her to a meeting of bomb-affected people. Upon arriving and finding the meetings discussion too political for her tastes, Niimoto suggested to Rev. Tanimoto that they form a support group for the dozen or so young women who he knew with similar injuries and concerns. Soon they were meeting regularly in the basement of his church. The women had all experienced similar lives following the war, such as being hidden from view by parents, stared at when they ventured outside, unwanted by employers, and rejected as potential wives for fear they were genetically damaged. As Tanimoto had gained some fame in America as a subject of a celebrated 1946 magazine/book article by journalist John Hersey titled \"Hiroshima\", Tanimoto joined American journalists to create a charitable foundation to help victims of Hiroshima and \"explore the ways of peace\".\n\nHersey, Pearl S. Buck, Norman Cousins and Reverend Marvin Green were Tanimoto's partners in the Hiroshima Peace Centre Foundation.\n\nThe group of scarred women was one of the foundation's projects, with Tanimoto calling it the Society of Keloid Girls. Following the help from newspaper columnist, Shizue Masugi, Tanimoto began raising funds to get plastic surgery for his group. Newspapers dubbed them genbaku otome, or \"atomic bomb maidens\", and in 1952 about 20 of them were treated in Tokyo and Osaka. Plastic surgery in Japan was not as advanced as it was in the United States so Tanimoto tried to find a way to get the \"maidens\" to America. Once aware of his efforts \"Saturday Review\" editor Norman Cousins pledged to help Tanimoto. They found two doctors, William Maxwell Hitzig and Arthur Barsky of Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, who were willing to supervise the medical operations and on May 5, 1955, a group of 25 women in their teens and twenties departed for America. The more specific nickname for the group – the Hiroshima Maidens – caught on when the women were brought to The Mount Sinai Hospital, New York in the United States to undergo multiple reconstructive surgeries. This highly publicized turn of events was largely the work of Cousins, an outspoken advocate of nuclear disarmament.\n\nFollowing their arrival, Tanimoto was the subject of the US TV program \"This Is Your Life\" on May 11, 1955. Before a studio audience, guests came forward to illustrate pivotal moments in Tanimoto's life. In the line-up were two of the Hiroshima maidens, their faces hidden behind a screen, and most surprising Captain Robert Lewis, the co-pilot of the plane, the Enola Gay, that dropped the Little Boy bomb on Hiroshima. The full film of this encounter appears to be lost as of 2004.\n\nIn all, 138 surgeries were performed on 25 women over 18 months during their stay in the US. On their visit, the women lived with a charitable Quaker group of foster parents. Hiroko Tasaka, heard in the following Canadian Broadcasting Company (CBC) clip, was known as \"Champion Surgery Girl\" because she had 13 operations, more than anyone else. One maiden, Tomoko Nakabayashi, died of cardiac arrest while undergoing a reconstruction operation on 24 May 1956; the cause was declared by the doctors to have been from complications/errors in the operation, not from radiation effects.\n\nNot all the atomic bomb maidens left for the US. Miyoko Matsubara states that she was one of 16 young \"Hiroshima maidens\" who received surgeries in Tokyo and then Osaka in 1953. After the 10 successful operations, together with 2 other Hiroshima maidens, they were then well enough and thus started work as live-in caretakers to disadvantaged children. When time came in 1955 to travel to Mt. Sinai Hospital in the US, unlike her two colleagues, she did not feel comfortable traveling to the country that bombed her and was \"left behind alone\".\n\nNone of the nearly equally disfigured young women at Nagasaki following the Fat Man fission bomb explosion on August 9, 1945, were in the group. There was no comparative Nagasaki Maiden charity organization: there was an effort from US cities to sponsor scarred survivors to travel to receive medical treatment, but this move is said to have been derailed by the US government. Moreover, when the women traveled to the US, three Hiroshima surgeons came along, to study the American plastic surgery techniques. This medical training was done free of charge. \nPresumably there were as many scarred boys as there were girls from the Little Boy bomb at Hiroshima, who also could not marry, and who were forced to live in the \"twilight society of Hiroshima\". They did not receive the same level of media and medical attention received as by the young women. The use of the term \"maiden\" reveals the focus was on their attempts to attain romantic prospects with men.\n\nA number of the maidens married and became mothers. Some gravitated towards social work. Toyoko Morita attended Parsons School of Design, and later became a well known fashion designer in Japan.\n\nOne maiden, Masako Tachibana, married and moved to Canada. She was not able to have children. On August 1, 1995, she gave an interview to\nreporter Len Grant of CBC Television. She said although she was a schoolgirl ordered to demolish buildings to create firebreaks at the time of the bombing, and the bomb's flash ignited her clothes on fire, and it made her vomit (a symptom of acute radiation syndrome) – she was glad the US had dropped the bomb. Tachibana said it was justified because it brought the war to a quicker resolution: Without it she does not believe the Japanese would have surrendered. Instead, more lives would have been lost, possibly close to all of Japan's population. She is the author of the Japanese book \"Reaction to the flash\".\n\n, 164,621 living hibakusha were certified by the Japanese government, with an average age of 81.41. The number of living Hiroshima maidens/atomic bomb maidens is not generally published separately.\n\n\nThe Hiroshima Maidens have been the subject of a movie titled \"Hiroshima Maiden\" (1988), depicting a particular case of such a maiden and the American family with which she stayed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13008203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13008203", "title": "Immunization registry", "text": "Immunization registry\n\nAn Immunization registry or Immunization Information System is a confidential, population-based, computerized information system that attempts to collect vaccination data about all persons within a geographic area. It consolidates the immunization records from multiple sources for each person living in its jurisdiction.\n\nImmunization Information Systems (IIS) are an important tool to increase and sustain high vaccination coverage by consolidating vaccination records of children and adults from multiple providers, forecasting next doses past due, due, and next due to support generating reminder and recall vaccination notices for each individual, and providing official vaccination forms and vaccination coverage assessments. One of the national health objectives is to increase to 95% the proportion of children aged <6 years who participate in fully operational population-based IIS.\n\nA \"fully operational\" IIS includes 95% enrollment or higher of all catchment area children less than 6 years of age with 2 or more immunization encounters administered according to ACIP recommendations.\n\nIn a population-based IIS, children are entered into the IIS at birth, often through a linkage with electronic birth records. An IIS record also can be initiated by a health care provider at the time of a child's first immunization. If an IIS includes all children in a given geographical area and all providers are reporting immunization information, it can provide a single data source for all community immunization partners. Such a population-based IIS can make it easier to carry out the demonstrably effective immunization strategies (e.g., reminder/recall, AFIX, and WIC linkages) and thereby decrease the resources needed to achieve and maintain high levels of coverage. IIS also can be used to enhance adult immunization services and coverage.\n\nThe concept of IIS is not new. Many individual practices and health plans administer immunizations to their patients. Records of these immunizations often are based on computerized information systems designed for other purposes such as billing. There also is a growing movement toward the development of totally computerized patient medical records. Although an IIS includes all immunizations administered by health care providers participating in it, only population-based IIS are capable of providing information on all children and all doses of vaccines administered by all providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "51684816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51684816", "title": "Institute for Work and Health", "text": "Institute for Work and Health\n\nThe Institute for Work & Health (IWH) is an independent, not-for-profit research organization based in Toronto, Canada. Its mission is to “promote, protect and improve the safety and health of working people by conducting actionable research that is valued by employers, workers, and policy-makers.”\n\nSince 2013, IWH has operated with core funding from the Government of Ontario through the Ministry of Labour (Ontario). For the 22 years previous to that, since its founding in 1990, the core funder was Ontario’s Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and its predecessors. The institute maintains an arm’s-length relationship with its core funder.\nInstitute scientists also apply for and receive grants from peer-reviewed funding agencies in Canada, such as the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council. \nIWH’s board of directors includes senior business, labour and academic representatives. A scientific advisory committee provides guidance on IWH research activities.\nIWH has formal affiliations with four universities in Ontario, Canada: University of Toronto, University of Waterloo, McMaster University and York University. The institute has access to data sources from the Workplace Safety and Insurance Board and Statistics Canada.\nIWH is part of the health and safety system in Ontario.\n\nIWH research falls into two broad areas:\nIWH research focuses on these topics:\nIWH also conducts systematic reviews of occupational health and safety research. Systematic reviews provide an overview of the evidence from higher quality studies on a specific research question. Cochrane Back and Neck (formerly known as the Cochrane Back Review Group) is based at IWH and conducts systematic reviews of clinical research on back and neck pain.\n\nIWH has produced a number of tools and guides based on its research evidence, including:\nIWH also produces regular newsletters, including\n\n"}
{"id": "44542154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542154", "title": "Jamalpur Medical College", "text": "Jamalpur Medical College\n\nSheikh Hasina Medical College () is a government medical college in Bangladesh, established in 2014. It is located in Jamalpur. It is affiliated with University of Dhaka as a constituent college.\n\nIt has a 5-year medical education course leading to an MBBS. One-year internship after graduation is compulsory for all graduates. The college is affiliated with the University of Dhaka, and the degree is recognized by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council.\n\nIn 2014, Bangladesh government approved to establish 6 new medical colleges at Tangail, Jamalpur, Manikganj, Sirajganj, Patuakhali and Rangamati with a view to improve the healthcare services in the country.\n\nJamalpur Medical College is affiliated with the University of Dhaka. The students receive MBBS degree from the University of Dhaka after completion of 5th year of study and passing the final Professional MBBS examination.\n\nThis college is directly governed by Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council BMDC - an affiliation of Ministry of Health.\n\nThe professional examinations are held under the University and results are given thereby. Internal Examinations are also taken on regular interval namely Card completions, Terms end and regular assessments.\n\nThe admission process of undergraduate MBBS course for all government medical colleges in Bangladesh is conducted centrally by the Director of Medical Education under DGHS under the Ministry of Health. The test comprises a written MCQ exam, which is held simultaneously in all government medical colleges on the same day throughout the country. Candidates are selected for admission based on national merit and district, whether they are sons or daughters of freedom fighters, and to fill tribal quotas. For foreign students, admission is through the embassy of Bangladesh in their respective countries. The academic calendar for different years is maintained by respective departments.The admission test consists of the written MCQ exam.\n\n"}
{"id": "53605320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53605320", "title": "Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice", "text": "Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice\n\nThe Journal of Evaluation in Clinical Practice is a quarterly peer-reviewed medical journal covering the evaluation of clinical practice in all medical and health disciplines. It was established in 1995 and is published by Wiley-Blackwell. The editor-in-chief is Andrew Miles (Imperial College School of Medicine). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.053, ranking it 15th out of 20 journals in the category \"Medical informatics\".\n"}
{"id": "25023221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25023221", "title": "Kokoro (Yoruba)", "text": "Kokoro (Yoruba)\n\nKokoro is a Yoruba word meaning \"worm\", \"grub\" or \"insect\". \nThe term \"kokoro\" is used in traditional Yoruba medicine to describe tiny, invisible worms or insects that are thought to live in small bags within the body, and perform useful functions such as aiding digestion and fertility. They are thought to also carry sexually transmitted diseases and other diseases. If they become too powerful, they must be controlled, killed or driven out by bitter-tasting medicines. If kokoro are identified with bacteria and viruses, and the small bags are identified with cells, this is consistent with modern medical views.\n\nThe Yoruba of Nigeria have a saying regarding the right to life of insects:\n\nAnother saying, describing communal responsibility, is:\n(If your neighbour is eating bad insect, you should caution them, or your sleep will be disturbed at night).\n\n"}
{"id": "7456502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456502", "title": "Lateral periodontal cyst", "text": "Lateral periodontal cyst\n\nThe lateral periodontal cyst is a non-inflammatory developmental cyst that arises from the epithelial post-functional dental lamina, which is a remnant from odontogenesis. It is more common in middle-aged males. Usually asymptomatic, it presents as a regular well-corticated radiolucency on the side of a mandibular canine or premolar root. Histologically, the cyst appears similar to the gingival cyst of the adult, having a non-keratinized squamous epithelial lining. The involved tooth is usually vital and has no indication for root canal treatment unless the signs of non-vital or necrotic pulpal tissue were confirmed. The cysts arise from epithelial rest cells in the periodontal ligament, although it is unknown whether from the cell rests of Malassez, reduced enamel epithelium or dental lamina remnants, and are generally treated by surgical enucleation.\n\n"}
{"id": "13939351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13939351", "title": "Lazaretto Island", "text": "Lazaretto Island\n\nLazaretto Island, (Greek: Λαζαρέτο, also Lazareto, formerly known as Aghios Dimitrios) is located two nautical miles northeast of Corfu. The island has an area of and is administered by the Greek National Tourist Organization. It gets its name from the lazaretto located there.\n\nDuring Venetian rule in the early 16th century a monastery was built on the islet and a leprosarium was established there later that century, after which the island was named.\n\nIn 1798, during the French occupation, it was occupied by the Russo-Turkish fleet which ran it as a military hospital. During the British occupation, in 1814, the leprosarium was again opened after renovations. After Enosis in 1864 the leprosarium saw occasional use.\n\nDuring World War II, the Axis Occupation of Greece established a concentration camp there for the prisoners of the Greek National Resistance movement. There remains today the two-storied building that served as the Headquarters of the Italian army, a small church, and the wall against which those condemned to death were shot.\n"}
{"id": "34506374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34506374", "title": "Liechtenstein referendums, 2009", "text": "Liechtenstein referendums, 2009\n\nThree referendums were held in Liechtenstein during 2009. The first two were held on 29 March and concerned reforming level I of secondary schooling and the introduction of a smoking ban in restaurants, both of which were rejected by voters. The third was held on 6 December on overturning a law introduced in May 2008 which placed an upper level on the electromagnetic field from phone masts, and was approved by 57% of voters.\n"}
{"id": "29790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29790", "title": "List of therapies", "text": "List of therapies\n\nThis is a list of types of medical therapy, including forms of traditional medicine, alternative medicine, and quackery. For psychotherapies and other behavioral and psychological intervention methods, see list of psychotherapies.\n\n"}
{"id": "4567287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4567287", "title": "Maudsley Bipolar Twin Study", "text": "Maudsley Bipolar Twin Study\n\nThe Maudsley Bipolar Twin Study is an ongoing twin study of bipolar disorder running at the Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London since 2003. The study is investigating possible differences between people with a diagnosis of bipolar disorder and people without the diagnosis. In particular it is investigating difference in cognition and brain structure/function.\n\nThe Maudsley Study of bipolar disorder investigates different aspects of thinking, such as memory and attention, in twins with and without bipolar disorder. The tasks participants complete involve defining words and solving different kinds of problems. With adequate numbers of twins participating in the study, the hope is to understand any differences between these two groups. The eventual aim is to increase understanding of this complex mood disorder and to enhance future therapies for it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3215738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3215738", "title": "Maxillary first molar", "text": "Maxillary first molar\n\nThe maxillary first molar is the human tooth located laterally (away from the midline of the face) from both the maxillary second premolars of the mouth but mesial (toward the midline of the face) from both maxillary second molars.\n\nThe function of this molar is similar to that of all molars in regard to grinding being the principal action during mastication, commonly known as chewing.\n\nThere are usually four cusps on maxillary molars, two on the buccal (side nearest the cheek) and two palatal (side nearest the palate). There may also be a fifth smaller cusp on the palatal side known as the Cusp of Carabelli.\n\nNormally, maxillary molars have four lobes, two buccal and two lingual, which are named in the same manner as the cusps that represent them (mesiobuccal, distobuccal, mesiolingual, and distolingual lobes). Unlike the anterior teeth and premolars, molars do not exhibit facial developmental depressions. Evidence of lobe separation can be found in the central groove, which divides buccal from lingual lobes. The two lingual lobes are separated by the distolingual groove, and the two buccal lobes are divided by the buccal groove.\n\nThere are great differences between the deciduous (baby) maxillary molars and those of the permanent maxillary molars, even though their function are similar. The permanent maxillary molars are not considered to have any teeth that precede it. Despite being named molars, the deciduous molars are followed by permanent premolars.\n\nPermanent maxillary first molar notation\n\nIn the universal numbering system, one number is used to identify the tooth. The right permanent maxillary first molar is known as tooth \"3\", and the left permanent maxillary first molar is known as tooth \"14\".\n\nIn the Palmer notation, a number and symbol are used to identify the tooth. The number identifies the tooth position relative to the midline, and the symbol identifies the quadrant of the mouth. Both maxillary first molars have the same number; \"6\". However, the right molar has the symbol \"┘\" underneath it. The left molar has \"└\" underneath it.\n\nIn the international system of notation two numbers are used to identify the tooth. The first number identifies the quadrant of the mouth. The second number identifies the tooth relative to the midline of the arch. The right permanent maxillary first molar is known as \"16\". The left permanent maxillary first molar is known as \"26\".\n\nDeciduous maxillary first molar notation\n\nIn the universal numbering system, an uppercase letter is used to identify the tooth. The right deciduous maxillary first molar is known as \"B\", and the left one is known as \"I\".\n\nIn the Palmer notation, a letter and symbol are used to identify the tooth. The letter identifies the tooth position relative to the midline, and the symbol identifies the quadrant of the mouth. Both maxillary first molars have the same letter; \"E\". However, the right molar has the symbol \"┘\" underneath it. The left molar has \"└\" underneath it.\n\nIn the international system of notation two numbers are used to identify the tooth. The right deciduous maxillary first molar is known as \"54\", and the left one is known as \"64\".\n\nThe maxillary first molar normally has three roots.\n\n\nThere are prominent depressions found on the distal aspect of the mesiobuccal roots. Depressions can also be found on the furcal side of the distobuccal and palatal roots.\n\nThe overall average length of the maxillary first molar is 20.5 mm with an average crown length of 7.5 mm and an average root length of 13 mm.\n\nThe maxillary first molars are the second most common carious teeth and the second most common teeth to undergo endodontic treatment or extraction (with mandibular first molars the most common diseased teeth). Up to 21% of all extracted teeth are maxillary first molars.\n"}
{"id": "30098715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30098715", "title": "Ministry of Health (Saskatchewan)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Saskatchewan)\n\nThe Ministry of Health in Saskatchewan is responsible for policy direction, sets and monitors standards, and provides funding for regional health authorities and provincial health services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20788848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20788848", "title": "National Institute for Mental Health in England", "text": "National Institute for Mental Health in England\n\nNational Institute for Mental Health in England (NIMHE) was an English medical organisation established in 2001 under the leadership of Professor Louis Appleby to \"coordinate research, disseminate information, facilitate training and develop services\". The NIMHE was disbanded and a new body, the National Mental Health Development Unit was launched in 2009. The director of NIMHE, Ian MacPherson, became the director of NMHDU. The NMHDU was also disbanded in March 2011.\n\nOne of NIMHE's first publications, titled Cases for Change, was funded by the Department of Health to review documents published since 1997 about adult mental health, and was undertaken in conjunction with the Department of General Practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "19649451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19649451", "title": "Natural health product", "text": "Natural health product\n\nThe term natural health product (NHP) is used in Canada to describe substances such as vitamins and minerals, herbal medicines, homeopathic preparations, energy drinks, probiotics, and many alternative and traditional medicines. A 2010 survey showed that 73% of Canadians consume NHP on a regular basis. NHP are obtainable without a prescription and are required to be safe to be used as an over-the-counter product.\n\nNatural health care products are currently regulated under the Natural Health Product Regulations, under the authority of the Food and Drugs Act. The regulations address the sale of natural health products, manufacture, packaging, labelling and importation for sale of natural health products, the distribution of natural health products, and the storage of natural health products. Under the regulations, all natural health products require a Natural Product Number (NPN), analogous to the Drug Identification Numbers (DINs) used to identify and monitor drugs in Canada.\n\nNatural Health Products are defined in Canada as:\n\n\n\nNHPs are safe to consume and generally have less side effects than traditional drug medications. However, NHP are not risk free and have potential for some risks. These may come about from manufacturing problems (contamination, incorrect dose), misrepresented or unproven claims on the label, unexpected side effects (allergic reaction), or interaction with other medication/NHPs also being consumed. It has been reported that 12% of Canadians have experienced unwanted side effects due to the consumption of NHPs. It is recommended that you do your research and consult a health care professional if you are concerned with the potential risks.\n"}
{"id": "5284281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5284281", "title": "Norwegian Medicines Agency", "text": "Norwegian Medicines Agency\n\nThe Norwegian Medicines Agency (\"Statens legemiddelverk\", \"Legemiddelverket\") is the national, regulatory authority for new and existing medicines and the supply chain. The Agency is responsible for supervising the production, trials and marketing of medicines. It approves medicines and monitors their use, and ensures cost-efficient, effective and well-documented use of medicines. The inspectorate also supervises the supply-chain and regulates prices and trade conditions for pharmacies.\n\nThe Norwegian Medicines Agency\n"}
{"id": "23199883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23199883", "title": "Nursing in Hong Kong", "text": "Nursing in Hong Kong\n\nNursing in Hong Kong is a licensed professional occupation. The Nursing Council of Hong Kong established nurses registration system to ensure the quality of nursing practice.\n\nAll nursing programmes in Hong Kong have to approved by the Nursing Council of Hong Kong.\n\nThe approved nursing educational institutions are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "25454560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25454560", "title": "Oku-Komyo-En Sanatorium", "text": "Oku-Komyo-En Sanatorium\n\nOku-Kōmyō-En Sanatorium (光明園), or National Sanatorium Oku-Kōmyō-En is a sanatorium for leprosy and ex-leprosy patients on the island of Nagashima, Oku-machi, Setouchi, Okayama, Japan. The same island holds the National Sanatorium Nagashima Aiseien. As of December 2, 2005, the Oku-Kōmyō-En housed 252 residents (131 males and 121 females).\n\nSotojima Hoyoen Sanatorium opened April 1, 1909 in Nakashima, Nishiyodogawa-ku, Osaka for patients in Kyoto fu, Hyogo prefecture, Nara Prefecture, Wakayama prefecture, Mie prefecture, Shiga prefecture, Gifu Prefecture, Fukui Prefecture, Ishikawa Prefecture, Toyama Prefecture, and Tottori Prefecture.\n\nThe sanatorium, built in the Kanzaki River delta valley, was hit by the Muroto typhoon on September 21, 1934. The storm left 2,702 dead and 334 missing, including 187 people in the sanatorium (173 patients, 3 employees, and 11 family members). On September 24, 1934, the Interior Ministry decided to transfer 416 survivors to other sanatoriums, including Nagashima Aiseien Sanatorium (78 patients), Kyushu Sanatorium (Kikuchi Keifuen Sanatorium) (50 patients), Ooshima Sanatorium (70 patients), Zensho Byoin (Tama Zenshoen Sanatorium) (70 patients), Hokubu Hoyoen Sanatorium (50 patients), and Kuryu Rakusen-en Sanatorium (98 patients).\n\n\nThe number of inpatients in a given year depends not only on those newly hospitalized and the recently deceased, but also on other factors such as patient escapes and discharges, depending on the conditions of the times. Recently, the sanatorium was encouraged to discharge patients , but a long-standing segregation and the resulting stigma against leprosy patients might have influenced the number of patients discharged.\n\n"}
{"id": "47361842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47361842", "title": "Opitz G/BBB syndrome", "text": "Opitz G/BBB syndrome\n\nOpitz G/BBB syndrome, also known as Opitz syndrome, G syndrome or BBB syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder that will affect physical structures along the midline of the body. The letters G and BBB represent the last names of the families that were first diagnosed with the disorder, while Opitz is the last name of the doctor that first described the signs and symptoms of the disease. There are two different forms of Optiz G/BBB syndrome: x-linked (recessive) syndrome (Type I; XLOS; OSX) and dominant autosomal syndrome (Type II; ADOS). However, both result in common physical deformities, although their pattern of inheritance may differ. Several other names for the disease(s) are no longer used. These include hypospadias-dysphagia syndrome, Opitz-Frias syndrome, telecanthus with associated abnormalities, and hypertelorism-hypospadias syndrome.\n\nOne out of every 50,000 to 100,000 males is born with X-linked type II Optiz G/BBB syndrome, but professionals believe that condition is under diagnosed and there are actually many more cases. It is unknown as to how many autosomal dominant cases exist. However, the autosomal dominant cases are also categorized under a more commonly diagnosed group called 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. This group includes several other diseases that all result because of a small deletion of chromosome 22 at the q11.2 location.\n\nThe three most common symptoms of Opitz G/BBB syndrome (both type I & II) are hypertelorism (exceptionally wide-spaced eyes), laryngo-tracheo-esophalgeal defects (including clefts and holes in the palate, larynx, trachea and esophagus) and hypospadias (urinary openings in males not at the tip of the penis) (Meroni, Opitz G/BBB syndrome, 2012). Abnormalities in the larynx, trachea and esophagus can cause significant difficulty breathing and/or swallowing and can result in reoccurring pneumonia and life-threatening situations. Commonly, there may be a gap between the trachea and esophagus, referred to as a laryngeal cleft; which can allow food or fluid to enter the airway and make breathing and eating a difficult task. \n\nGenital abnormalities like a urinary opening under the penis (hypospadias), undescended testes (cryptorchidism), underdeveloped scrotum and a scrotum divided into two lobes (bifid scrotum) can all be commonplace for males with the disease.\n\nDevelopmental delays of the brain and nervous system are also common in both types I and II of the disease. 50% of people with Opitz G/BBB Syndrome will experience developmental delay and mild intellectual disability. This can impact motor skills, speech and learning capabilities. Some of these instances are likened to autistic spectrum disorders. Close to half of the people with Opitz G/BBB Syndrome also have a cleft lip (hole in the lip opening) and possibly a cleft palate (hole in the roof of the mouth), as well. Less than half of the people diagnosed have heart defects, imperforate anus (obstructed anal opening), and brain defects. Of all the impairments, female carriers of X-linked Type I Opitz G/BBB Syndrome usually only have ocular hypertelorism.\nOpitz G/BBB Syndrome is a rare genetic condition caused by one of two major types of mutations: MID1 mutation on the short (p) arm of the X chromosome or a mutation of the 22q11.2 gene on the 22nd chromosome. Since it is a genetic disease, it is an inherited condition. However, there is an extremely wide variability in how the disease presents itself.\n\nBoth X-linked Type I and Autosomal dominant Type II Optiz G/BBB syndromes are caused by genetic mutations. However, while the X-linked form is caused by a mutation on the midline 1 (MID1) gene on the short (p) arm of the X chromosome; the autosomal dominant form is due to a mutation on chromosome 22. Both forms of the disease result in physical deformities along the centerline of the body.\n\nIn X-linked Type I patients, the mutation in the MID1 gene leads to less functional midline-1 proteins. These proteins are responsible for binding to the cytoskeleton and assist the cell during cell division. It seems these issues with early cell division have a significant impact on the physical deformities that typically accompany the disease.\n\nAutosomal dominant Type II patients endure a mutation on chromosome 22, most commonly at 22q11.2. Some researchers consider Opitz G/BBB syndrome to be a type of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (a slightly different and broader disease). In some cases of autosomal dominant Opitz G/BBB syndrome, the disease is caused by a mutation in the SPECC1L gene (near the 22q11.2 gene), which helps make cytospin-A. Cytospin-A is a protein imperative to the formation of facial features and is often considered responsible for the cleft lip or palate that Opitz G/BBB syndrome patients will have.\n\nSince physical abnormalities can affect all body parts along the midline of the body, many different body systems are at risk of being damaged. Those systems commonly affected are the nervous, digestive, cardiovascular, respiratory and reproductive. Typically, those diagnosed with either type of Opitz G/BBB syndrome will also have ocular hypertelorism, or eyes that are excessively spaced apart. Patients will commonly experience physical defects in the larynx, trachea and esophagus and will often cause breathing and swallowing difficulties. Further facial anomalies may occur, such as a prominent forehead, widow’s peak, broad nasal bridge. Those with the disease may also experience hypospadias (urinary opening in males is not at the head of the penis) and developmental delay, as well.\n\nX-linked type I Opitz G/BBB Syndrome is diagnosed on clinical findings, but those findings can vary greatly: even within the same family. Manifestations of X-linked type I are classified in the frequent/major findings and minor findings that are found in less than 50% of individuals.\n\nThe three major findings that suggest a person has X-linked Type I Opitz G/BBB Syndrome:\n\nMinor findings found in less than 50% of individuals:\n\nIn 1989, Hogdall used ultrasonographs to diagnose X-linked Type I Opitz G/BBB Syndrome after 19 weeks of pregnancy, by identifying hypertelorism (widely-spaced eyes) and hypospadias (irregular urinary tract openings in the penis).\n\nThere is also molecular genetic testing available to identify mutations leading to Opitz G/BBB Syndrome. X-linked Type I testing must be done on MID1, since this is the only gene that is known to cause Type I Opitz G/BBB Syndrome. Two different tests can be performed: sequence analysis and deletion/duplication analysis. In the sequence analysis a positive result would detect 15-50% of the DNA sequence mutated, while a deletion/duplication positive result would find deletion or duplication of one or more exons of the entire MID1 gene.\n\nIn terms of prevention, several researchers strongly suggest prenatal testing for at-risk pregnancies if a MID1 mutation has been identified in a family member. Doctors can perform a fetal sex test through chromosome analysis and then screen the DNA for any mutations causing the disease. Knowing that a child may be born with Opitz G/BBB syndrome could help physicians prepare for the child’s needs and the family prepare emotionally. Furthermore, genetic counseling for young adults that are affected, are carriers or are at risk of carrying is strongly suggested, as well (Meroni, Opitz G/BBB syndrome, 2012). Current research suggests that the cause is genetic and no known environmental risk factors have been documented. The only education for prevention suggested is genetic testing for at-risk young adults when a mutation is found or suspected in a family member.\n\nBecause the variability of this disease is so great and the way that it reveals itself could be multi-faceted; once diagnosed, a multidisciplinary team is recommended to treat the disease and should include a craniofacial surgeon, ophthalmologist, pediatrician, pediatric urologist, cardiologist, pulmonologist, speech pathologist, and a medical geneticist. Several important steps must be followed, as well.\nMany surgical repairs may be needed, as assessed by professionals. Furthermore, special education therapies and psychoemotional therapies may be required, as well. In some cases, antireflux drugs can be prescribed until risk of breathing and swallowing disorders are removed. Genetic counseling is highly advised to help explain who else in the family may be at risk for the disease and to help guide family planning decisions in the future.\n\nBecause of its wide variability in which defects will occur, there is no known mortality rate specifically for the disease. However, the leading cause of death for people with Opitz G/BBB syndrome is due to infant death caused by aspiration due to esophageal, pharyngeal or laryngeal defects.\nFortunately, to date there are no factors that can increase the expression of symptoms of this disease. All abnormalities and symptoms are present at birth.\n\nSince the symptoms caused by this disease are present at birth, there is no “cure.” The best cure that scientists are researching is awareness and genetic testing to determine risk factors and increase knowledgeable family planning. Prevention is the only option at this point in time for a cure.\n\n"}
{"id": "8425187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8425187", "title": "Osteoarthritis Research Society International", "text": "Osteoarthritis Research Society International\n\nThe Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OARSI) is a non-profit scientific organization.\nThe mission of OARSI is to promote and advance research for the prevention and treatment of osteoarthritis.\n\nOARSI publishes an international fully peer-reviewed multidisciplinary journal, \"Osteoarthritis and Cartilage\". Many specialists, practitioners and researchers use this journal as a forum for idea dissemination related to diseases of cartilage and joints.\n\nEach year OARSI hosts a world congress on osteoarthritis.\n\n"}
{"id": "36275381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36275381", "title": "Radiation Exposure Monitoring", "text": "Radiation Exposure Monitoring\n\nRadiation Exposure Monitoring (REM) is a framework developed by Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE), for utilizing existing technical standards, such as DICOM, to provide information about the dose delivered to patients in radiology procedures, in an interoperable format.\n\nReady access to dose information aids medical staff, including radiographers, radiologists and medical physicists, in the radiation protection goal of reducing doses to a level \"as low as reasonably practicable\".\n\nA challenge in automating the reporting of radiation exposure estimations has traditionally been a function of whether the record of dose provided by a manufacturer is persistent (i.e. stored electronically) or transient (i.e. displayed on a read-out). Many current radiology devices provide only transient records, either in the form of human-readable dose screens that require manual intervention (i.e. pencil and paper) to permanently capture the patient exposure, or else in the equally perishable data generated by a modality-performed procedure step (MPPS) created to help manage the scheduling system.\nMPPS is insufficient, having a limited ability to encode complex data, and no options for long-term storage or queries. Newer scanners are able to create DICOM radiation dose structured reports (RDSRs) alongside the images themselves. REM addresses perishable dose data by creating a persistent record that can be sent to a central repository, and then queried and analyzed by health information systems for either a specific patient's history or for analysis of radiation exposure levels among patient groups, platforms, or clinical operations. RDSRs, and the use of the IHE REM framework are part of the IEC 61910 standard.\n\nIntegrating the Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) is an initiative by healthcare professionals and industry to improve the way computer systems in healthcare share information. IHE \"Integration Profiles\" are designed make systems easier to implement and integrate, and help care providers use information more effectively. \nIHE Integration Profiles describe clinical information management use cases and specify how to use existing standards (HL7, DICOM, etc.) to address them. Systems that implement integration profiles solve interoperability problems. For equipment vendors, Integration Profiles are implementation guides. For healthcare providers, Integration Profiles are shorthand for integration requirements in purchasing documents. Integration Statements tell customers the IHE Profiles supported by a specific release of a specific product.\n\nThe REM Profile enables imaging modalities to export radiation exposure estimation details in a standard format. Radiation reporting systems can either query for these \"dose objects\" periodically from an archive, or receive them directly from the modalities. The radiation reporting system is expected to perform relevant dose QA analysis and produce related reports. The analysis methods and report format are not considered topics for standardization and are not covered in the profile.\n\nThe profile also describes how radiation reporting systems can submit dose estimation reports to centralized registries such as might be run by professional societies or national accreditation groups. In the United States, the American College of Radiology DIR is one such registry. By profiling automated methods, the profile allows dose information to be collected and evaluated without imposing a significant administrative burden on staff otherwise occupied with caring for patients.\n\nIn addition to supporting profile quality assurance (QA) of the technical process at the local facility, (e.g. determining if the dose was appropriate for the procedure performed), the profile also supports population analysis performed by national registries. Compliant software products are capable of de-identifying and submitting dose reports to a national dose register securely, making it relatively simple for groups such as ACR to collect and process dose data from across the country once they have recruited participating sites.\n\nMost fluoroscopic x-ray equipment can provide an estimate of the cumulative dose that would have resulted to a point on the skin if the x-ray beam was stationary during the complete procedure. Such an estimate is derived from the fluoroscopic technique factors and the total exposure time, including any image recording, or from built-in dosimetry systems. However, these systems, known as dose area product meters (DAP meters), do not directly provide skin dose information without further knowledge of the sizes of the x-ray beam during the entire procedure. The relationship between cumulative skin dose and peak skin dose is highly variable, as has been demonstrated in a number of publications.\n\nAccording to IHE, \"It is important to understand the technical and practical limitations of dose monitoring and the reasons why the monitored values may not accurately provide the radiation dose administered to the patient\":\n\nDespite such limitations, interest in monitoring radiation dose estimates is clearly expressed in such documents as the European directive Euratom 97/43 and the American College of Radiology Dose Whitepaper.\n\n"}
{"id": "20965071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20965071", "title": "Resuscitation Council (UK)", "text": "Resuscitation Council (UK)\n\nThe Resuscitation Council (UK) is the United Kingdom body responsible for setting central standards for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and related disciplines, and is a member of the European Resuscitation Council, which in turn is part of the international standards body, the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation or 'ILCOR'.\n\nThe Resuscitation Council (UK) was formed in August 1981 by a group of medical professionals with a shared interest in resuscitation, and has an objective of educating both the lay public and health care professionals in the most effective resuscitation methods.\n\nThe Resuscitation Council aims to:\n\n"}
{"id": "3465607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3465607", "title": "Rita Süssmuth", "text": "Rita Süssmuth\n\nRita Süssmuth (; born 17 February 1937) is a German politician and a member of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU).\n\nSüssmuth graduated as a Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Münster in 1964. From 1966 until 1982, she was a faculty member in education at University of Dortmund, Ruhr University, and their predecessor institutions.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1988, Süssmuth was Federal Minister of Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth under Chancellor Helmut Kohl. In late 1989, she joined forces with Lothar Späth, Heiner Geißler, Kurt Biedenkopf and others in an unsuccessful effort to oust Kohl as CDU chairman.\n\nSüssmuth was a member of the German Bundestag from 1987 to 2002. After the resignation of Philipp Jenninger in 1988 she became the 10th President of the Bundestag. She held the post until 1998, when the SPD became the strongest group in parliament.\n\nFrom 1986 to 2001, Süssmuth was president of the \"Frauenunion\" (the organization of the female members of the CDU) and therefore had a strong influence in her party.\n\nIn September 2000, Federal Minister of the Interior Otto Schily appointed Süssmuth as head of a high-profile bipartisan commission to overhaul Germany's immigration policies. Since 2005, she has been president of the OTA Hochschule, a private university in Berlin.\n\nAfter leaving politics, Süssmuth has been involved in a number of philanthropic and business activities, including the following: \n\nSüssmuth is also Member of the European Council on Tolerance and Reconciliation established in 2008 to monitor tolerance in Europe and prepare recommendations to European governments and IGOs on fighting xenophobia and anti-semitism.\n\nSüssmuth is a supporter of the Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, an organisation which advocates for democratic reformation of the United Nations.\n\nIn 2018 Süssmuth was awarded the Mercator Visiting Professorship for Political Management at the Universität Essen-Duisburg's NRW School of Governance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2321249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2321249", "title": "SAFE-BioPharma Association", "text": "SAFE-BioPharma Association\n\nSAFE-BioPharma Association is the non-profit association that created and manages the SAFE-BioPharma digital identity and digital signature standard for the global pharmaceutical, biotech and healthcare industries. SAFE stands for \"Signatures & Authentication For Everyone\" (but originally stood for \"Secure Access For Everyone\"). It was originally created as an initiative of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) association to encourage the use of a common digital identity and digital signature standard for the pharmaceutical industry, but is now an independent non-profit association offering such standards services to the government and the entire healthcare industry.\n\nThe SAFE-BioPharma industry standard is used to establish and manage digital identities and to issue and apply digital signatures. It mitigates legal, regulatory and business risk associated with business-to-business and business-to-regulator electronic transactions. It also facilitates interoperability by providing a secure, enforceable, and regulatory-compliant way to verify identities of parties involved in electronic transactions.\n\nSAFE-BioPharma’s vision is to be a catalyst in transforming the biopharmaceutical and healthcare communities to a fully electronic business environment by 2012.\n\nThe SAFE-BioPharma digital identity and signature standard operates one of the nation’s leading public key infrastructure (PKI) certificate authority bridges. These PKI certificate bridges establish an infrastructure for the trusted exchange of confidential information and the reliable authentication of identities over the Internet. By providing a highly secure way to validate, trust, and manage identities of unknown participants in an Internet transaction, the SAFE-BioPharma Bridge Certificate Authority (SBCA) is essential to helping achieve the speed, efficiency and cost-savings inherent in use of the Internet for business transactions. This technology also improves interoperability across many different systems.\n\nThe SAFE-BioPharma Bridge Certificate Authority is cross-certified with the Federal Bridge Public Key Infrastructure Architecture (FPKIA), facilitating the ability of SAFE-BioPharma member companies that meet certain security, technical and operational criteria to leverage the identity credentials of any and all bridge members in the exchange of sensitive and confidential information. In essence, it allows officials in Health and Human Services, the Food and Drug Administration, Department of Defense, and other government agencies to trust the origins of electronic documents received from corporate managers, physicians, clinical researchers, etc. who are credentialed to digitally sign documents with SAFE-BioPharma digital signatures. Additionally, the identities are trusted for authentication access control for sites requiring strong authentication.\n\nSAFE-BioPharma has worked closely with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA) and other global healthcare and regulatory agencies to ensure the digital signatures generated using SAFE-BioPharma certificates meet regulatory requirements and are accepted by these agencies when used on documents that are part of electronic submissions. It thus allows voluminous paper documents used for regulatory compliance to be digitally signed and submitted in electronic form. This improves accuracy, reduces costs, enables electronic search and retrieval and saves energy and natural resources.\n\nSAFE-BioPharma Association members include Abbott Laboratories (NYSE: ABT), Amgen (NASDAQ: AMGN), AstraZeneca (NYSE: AZN), Bristol-Myers Squibb (NYSE:BMY), GlaxoSmithKline (NYSE: GSK), Johnson & Johnson (NYSE: JNJ), Eli Lilly (NYSE: LLY), Merck (NYSE:MRK), National Notary Association, Pfizer (NYSE: PFE), Premier Inc., and Sanofi-Aventis (NYSE:SNY).\n\nSAFE-BioPharma is a trademark of the SAFE-BioPharma Association. Any use of this trademark requires approval from the SAFE-BioPharma Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43737103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43737103", "title": "STARskaters", "text": "STARskaters\n\nSTARskaters.org, a US Paralympic Sport Club, was founded by Sugar Land, Texas businessman Jim O'Neill in 2008. The organization is composed of Houston area volunteers, many of whom are hockey players, skating instructors, figure skaters, coaches and officials.\n\nThe first version of the STARskaters website went live on May 1, 2008. The Maple Leaf Pub in Houston hosted the first fundraising event on July 26 of 2008, and the first skating event was held at the Willowbrook Aerodrome on August 2 of 2008.\n\nThe original concept was to hold quarterly STAR skates for organizations who provide services for individuals with disabilities, but the scope of the program quickly expanded to also include Sled Hockey. On February 14, 2009, the first \"Sled Hockey Weekend\" was held to recruit players and raise the awareness of the sport in Houston.\n\nThe first STAR skate for ARC of Fort Bend County was held May 15, 2010 and was the first STARskaters event held at the Sugar Land Ice & Sports Center. This event lead to the first special needs skating lessons which started September 18, 2010.\n\nThe special needs skating lessons were noticed by B.L. Wylie, the Parent Education Coordinator for the U.S. Figure Skating instructional program at Sugar Land Ice & Sports Center. As the mother of Olympic Medalist Paul Wylie and a veteran instructor for U.S. Figure Skating, B.L. had always envisioned creating a skating program for individuals with disabilities. In October 2010 she took over as Director of the program which is today known as SkateTherapy.org which has become a model program for rinks across the country for instruction of disabled skaters.\n\nToday, between the STAR skates, SkateTherapy and Sled Hockey programs, outreach and community involvement, more than 130 events are held annually.\n\nSTARskaters mission is to provide an on-ice experience for individuals with disabilities through their STAR skates, SkateTherapy and Sled Hockey programs.\n\nIn June 2011, STARskaters was invited to apply for status as a US Paralympic Sport Club.\n\nSports clubs are community-based sports organizations developed to involve youth and adults with physical and visual disabilities in ongoing sports and physical activity, regardless of skill level. They also serve as a pipeline to develop athletes for competition in the Paralympic games held every two years following the Olympic games.\n\nAfter a review of the STARskaters program, Sport Club status was granted on July 21 of 2011. The first Paralympic Experience event was held at Ice Skate USA at Memorial City Mall on May 12, 2012 with Andy Yohe, Captain of the 2010 Gold Medal US Sled Hockey team participating in a \"try Sled Hockey\" event and providing instruction and skills and drills for players from Houston and Austin.\n\nSTARskaters is a 501(c)(3) non profit and 100% volunteer organization. There is a board of directors which oversees all of the programs as well as advisory boards for both the Sled Hockey and SkateTherapy programs.\n\n\nSTAR skates – Skating events held by request for organizations who service the disabled community. Events are held at area rinks for schools, service organizations and area US Paralympic Sport Clubs and youth wheelchair summer camp events.\n\nSled Hockey – A Paralympic sport, Sled Hockey is played by the same rules as stand-up hockey but with players sitting in specially designed sleds. They propel themselves with sticks which have picks on the end to dig into the ice.\n\nSkateTherapy – A program designed to provide stand-up skating instruction for individuals with a broad range of physical and developmental disabilities. The program follows the U.S. Figure Skating 14 level badge program, and the program, started in Sugar Land, TX has become a model for other program development around the United States.\n\nJessie Chan always waited for the opportunity to give back the gift and passion of skating to others. In October 2013, at age 17, the opportunity presented itself in the form of a blind Skate Therapy student too terrified to take the ice, she had her chance.\n5 months later, Jessie debuted her first original invention, the Ice Cruiser, a unique 360 degree walker that aids beginning skaters and those with physical and mental disabilities in learning how to skate independently. The multi-storied structure and all-around barrier design provides skaters with both the freedom and security to roam across the ice without the fear of loss of balance or direct collision with anyone or anything.\nThe power of the first Ice Cruiser can be demonstrated in Shoureek, that same blind skater who once struggled to even stand on the ice in only the arms of his instructors. Now, Shoureek spends his Saturdays happily and confidently gliding across Skate Therapy ice on his own, the comfort of his own Ice Cruiser assuring him of the power he himself has to transform and grow stronger.\nToday, Jessie holds a provisional patent and has big plans for the Ice Cruiser. Recently, she got down to work with her dedicated team of SkateTherapy volunteers and constructed the first Small and Medium-sized Ice Cruisers to be donated to the Skate Therapy program.\n\nWhen Kyle about 9, he started playing goalie in roller hockey, sitting on the floor playing against able-bodied players. This helped him begin to sharpen his hockey skills. Later when an ECHL hockey team came to the Beaumont area, he played goalie at a few junior practices. Again, sitting on the ice to play in goal against the able-bodied players. Kyle finally got his first sled when some adult hockey players were able to get a local refinery to donate money to purchase a hockey sled. However, he was only able to play in the sled a couple of times before the ECHL team left in 2008 and they no longer had ice.\n\nKyle didn't play hockey on ice again until he was introduced to STARskaters at the Metal & Muscle Expo in Houston in the fall of 2011. After that meeting Kyle and his family made the long drive from Beaumont to Houston every weekend where Kyle started the day on the ice with Sled Hockey, then on to Wheelchair Basketball and other activities.\n\nIn April 2012, STARskaters invited Kyle to play goalie in the USA Hockey Disabled Festival in Dallas. It was the first National Tournament for STARskaters Sled Hockey team and Kyle did double duty, playing for both the Houston adult team and in the Junior division for a team from Minnesota. His stellar performance in goal caught the eye of JJ O'Connor of USA Disabled Hockey. Kyle was invited to the National Development Camp in New York, and subsequently was named to the USA National Development Sled Hockey team.\n\nIn addition to Sled Hockey Kyle played wheelchair basketball for TIRR Houston Hotwheels from 2010-2013, and won the 2013 NWBA Junior National Championship. He currently plays wheelchair basketball for the University of Texas Arlington where he is majoring in journalism.\nSTARskaters is proud to have had a small part in Kyle's success but the real credit goes to Kyle's family for their support, dedication and countless hours on the road shuttling Kyle to his many sports activities. And, of course, Kyle himself for the hard work and dedication that took him from sitting on the floor of a roller hockey league in Beaumont to competing at the highest level of the sport against teams from all over the world.\n\nSTARskaters Sled Hockey team first competed in the USA Hockey Disabled festival April 13-15th, 2012. Players from Houston and Austin joined combined to win 3rd place in their first ever national competition.\n\nIn 2013 players from Houston and Dallas combined to participate in the Disabled Festival as the Texas STARS in Philadelphia, PA but failed to earn a medal. In 2014 at the tournament in Boston, Mass, the team finished in second place.\n\nIn 2015 the team went undefeated, outscoring their opponents 33–2 and won the championship of the national division.\n\n"}
{"id": "26237709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26237709", "title": "Salpêtrière School of Hypnosis", "text": "Salpêtrière School of Hypnosis\n\nThe Salpêtriére School, also known as the School of Paris, is, with the Nancy School, one of the schools that contributed to the age of hypnosis in France from 1882 to 1892. The leader of this school, the neurologist Jean Martin Charcot, contributed to the rehabilitation of hypnosis as a scientific subject presenting it as a somatic expression of hysteria. Charcot also used hypnosis as an investigative method and that by putting his hysterical patients into an \"experimental state\" it would permit him to reproduce their symptoms and interpret them.\n\nCharcot did not consider people suffering from hysteria as pretenders and discovered that hysteria was not just a state reserved for women. Finally, Charcot associated hysteria to post-traumatic paralysis, establishing the basis for the theory of psychic trauma.\n\nCharcot’s collaborators included Joseph Babinski, Paul Richer, Alfred Binet, Charles Féré, Pierre Janet, Georges Gilles de la Tourette, Alexandre-Achille Souques, Jules Cotard, Pierre Marie, Gilbert Ballet, Paul Regnard, Désiré-Magloire Bourneville, Paul Brémaud and Victor Dumontpallier.\n\nUltimately, Charcot was accused of operating as a carnival showman, training his patients in theatrical behaviour, which he would attribute to hypnosis. After his death in 1893, the practice of hypnotism declined in medical circles.\n\nAnimal magnetism and the emergence of hypnosis\nDetailed article: Animal magnetism\n\nSince the theoretical development of animal magnetism in 1773 by Franz-Anton Mesmer, the various movements of “magnetic medicine” fought into vain to be recognized and legitimized. In France, animal magnetism is introduced by Mesmer in 1778 and is the subject of several official condemnations, particularly in 1784, and in 1842 the Academy of Sciences decided to stop investigating magnetic phenomenon. That did not prevent a great number of doctors from using it, particularly in hospitals, including\nCharles Deslon, Jules Cloquet, Alexandre Bertrand, Professor Husson, Leon Rostan, François Broussais, Étienne-Jean Georget, Didier Berna and Alphonse Teste. In other European countries, animal magnetism was not subject to such harsh judgment, and was practiced by doctors such David Ferdinand Koreff, Christoph Wilhelm Hufeland, Karl Alexander Ferdinand Kluge, Karl Christian Wolfart, Karl Schelling, Justinus Kerner, James Esdaile and John Elliotson.\n\nThe term “hypnotic” appears in the Dictionary of the French Academy in 1814 and the terms “hypnotism”, “hypnosis”, “hypnoscope”, “hypnopole”, “hypnocratie”, “hypnoscopy”, “hypnomancie” and “hypnocritie” are proposed by Étienne Félix d'Henin de Cuvillers on the basis of the prefix “hypn” as of 1820. The Etymological dictionary of the French words drawn from the Greek, by Mr. Morin; second edition by Mr. Guinon, 2 volume - 8°, Paris, 1809, and the universal Dictionary of Boiste, include the expressions “hypnobate”, “hypnology”, “hypnologic”, “hypnotic”. But it is generally accepted that in the 1840s, it is that the Scottish surgeon James Braid who makes the transition between animal magnetism and hypnosis. In 1841, Braid attends a public demonstration of the hypnotizer Charles Lafontaine and in 1843 he publishes \"Neurhypnology, Treaty of nervous sleep or hypnotism\". Braid’s hypothesis essentially repeats the doctrines of the French imaginationnist hypnotizers such Jose Custodio da Faria and Alexandre Bertrand. Braid however criticizes Bertrand for explaining the magnetic phenomenon as caused by a mental state, the power of imagination, whereas he explains them as being due to a physiological cause, the tiredness of the nerve centers related to a paralysis of the ocular apparatus.\n\nHis contribution consists above all of proposing a new method of fascination based on concentrating on a brilliant object, a method that supposedly produces more constant and more rapid effects compared to that of the old-fashioned hypnotizers, and a theory based on the concept of mental fatigue. For him, hypnosis is a state of mental concentration during which the faculties of the patient’s spirit are so entirely monopolized by one idea that it becomes indifferent to any other considerations or influence. Braid uses this method as an anesthetic during surgery. At that time, ether was not yet used in anesthesiology. Discovered in 1818 by Michael Faraday, ether is not used for the first time until 1846, by the American dentist William Morton.\n\nAround 1848, Ambroise-Auguste Liébeault, a young surgery intern, also became interested in animal magnetism. Influenced by the hypnotizers Charles Lafontaine and Jules Dupotet de Sennevoy, he began putting young women to sleep.\nOn December 5, 1859, the surgeon Alfred Velpeau presented to Academy of Sciences an intervention practised under hypnotic anaesthesia according to the method of Braid in the name of three young doctors, Étienne Eugène Azam, Paul Broca and Eugene Follin. The previous day at Necker hospital the three operated on an anal tumor using hypnotic anaesthesia. The operation, very painful by nature, occurred without the patient showing any sign of pain. The following year, Joseph Durand (de Gros) published \"A theoretical and practical course of Braidisme, or nervous hypnotism\".\n\nIn 1864, Liébeault moved to Nancy as a philanthropist healer, curing children with magnetized water and by the laying on of hands. His interest in animal magnetism was revived by reading the works of Crêpe and Azam. He is on the fringe at a time when animal magnetism was completely discredited by the academy when he publishes in 1866, to general indifference, \"Sleep and similar states considered especially from the point of view of the action of the moral on the physique\".\n\nIn 1870, the philosopher Hippolyte Taine presented an introduction to the theories of Braid in his review \"Intelligence\". In 1880, a neurologist of Breslau, Rudolf Heidenhain, impressed by the achievements of the public hypnotizer Carl Hansen, adopts his method and publishes a book on animal magnetism. In Austria, the neurologist Moritz Benedikt experiments with hypnosis, followed by the doctor Josef Breuer.\n"}
{"id": "268973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268973", "title": "Scale (social sciences)", "text": "Scale (social sciences)\n\nIn the social sciences, scaling is the process of measuring or ordering entities with respect to quantitative attributes or traits. For example, a scaling technique might involve estimating individuals' levels of extraversion, or the perceived quality of products. Certain methods of scaling permit estimation of magnitudes on a continuum, while other methods provide only for relative ordering of the entities.\n\nThe level of measurement is the type of data that is measured.\n\nThe word scale is sometimes (including in academic literature) used to refer to another composite measure, that of an index. Those concepts are however different.\n\n\nIt is possible that something similar to your scale will already exist, so including those scale(s) and possible dependent variables in your survey may increase validity of your scale.\n\n\nThe type of information collected can influence scale construction. Different types of information are measured in different ways. \n\nComposite measures of variables are created by combining two or more separate empirical indicators into a single measure. Composite measures measure complex concepts more adequately than single indicators, extend the range of scores available and are more efficient at handling multiple items.\n\nIn addition to scales, there are two other types of composite measures. Indexes are similar to scales except multiple indicators of a variable are combined into a single measure. The index of consumer confidence, for example, is a combination of several measures of consumer attitudes. A typology is similar to an index except the variable is measured at the nominal level.\n\nIndexes are constructed by accumulating scores assigned to individual attributes, while scales are constructed through the assignment of scores to patterns of attributes.\n\nWhile indexes and scales provide measures of a single dimension, typologies are often employed to examine the intersection of two or more dimensions. Typologies are very useful analytical tools and can be easily used as independent variables, although since they are not unidimensional it is difficult to use them as a dependent variable.\n\nWith comparative scaling, the items are directly compared with each other (example: Do you prefer Pepsi or Coke?). In noncomparative scaling each item is scaled independently of the others (example: How do you feel about Coke?).\n\n\n\nScales should be tested for reliability, generalizability, and validity. Generalizability is the ability to make inferences from a sample to the population, given the scale you have selected. Reliability is the extent to which a scale will produce consistent results. Test-retest reliability checks how similar the results are if the research is repeated under similar circumstances. Alternative forms reliability checks how similar the results are if the research is repeated using different forms of the scale. Internal consistency reliability checks how well the individual measures included in the scale are converted into a composite measure.\n\nScales and indexes have to be validated. Internal validation checks the relation between the individual measures included in the scale, and the composite scale itself. External validation checks the relation between the composite scale and other indicators of the variable, indicators not included in the scale. Content validation (also called face validity) checks how well the scale measures what is supposed to measured. Criterion validation checks how meaningful the scale criteria are relative to other possible criteria. Construct validation checks what underlying construct is being measured. There are three variants of construct validity. They are convergent validity, discriminant validity, and nomological validity (Campbell and Fiske, 1959; Krus and Ney, 1978). The coefficient of reproducibility indicates how well the data from the individual measures included in the scale can be reconstructed from the composite scale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2710834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2710834", "title": "Shock chlorination", "text": "Shock chlorination\n\nShock chlorination is a process used in many swimming pools, water wells, springs, and other water sources to reduce the bacterial and algal residue in the water. Shock chlorination is performed by mixing a large amount of sodium hypochlorite, which can be in the form of a powder or a liquid such as chlorine bleach, into the water. The common advice is that the amount added must raise the level of chlorine to 10X the level (in parts per million) of chloramines present in the pool water-this is \"shocking\". A lesser ratio is superchlorinating. Water that is being shock chlorinated should not be swum in or drunk until the sodium hypochlorite count in the water goes down to three ppm or less. Commercial sodium hypochlorite should not be mixed with commercial calcium hypochlorite, as there is a risk of explosion. Although a verb for superchlorination, \"shock\" is often misunderstood (through marketing and sales language) to be a unique type of product.\n\nWhile \"shocking\" pools to reduce the buildup of chloramines works with inorganic, ammonia-based chloramines, in two studies it was found ineffective with the organic chloramines present in all pool water e.g. with creatinine, an organic component in human sweat. Indeed, superchlorination produces free chlorine that reacts with organic contaminants to form a variety of disinfection byproducts (DBPs) which are hazardous to swimmer health e.g. one of the worst DBPs is the noxious and volatile trichloramine (NCl), well known for irritating the eyes nearby a pool. It has been pointed out that ozone is an excellent alternative, a much more effective oxidizer than chlorine shock.\n\n"}
{"id": "27232233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27232233", "title": "Shushtar Historical Hydraulic System", "text": "Shushtar Historical Hydraulic System\n\nShushtar Historical Hydraulic System, () is an island city from the Sassanid era with a complex irrigation system. Located in Iran's Khuzestan Province. It was registered on UNESCO's list of World Heritage Sites in 2009 and is Iran's 10th cultural heritage site to be registered on the United Nations' list.\n\nShushtar infrastructure included water mills, dams, tunnels, and canals. GarGar weir was built on the watermills and waterfalls. Bolayti canal is situated on the eastern side of the water mills and water falls and the functions to supply water from behind the GarGar bridge to the east side of water mills and the channel the water of river in order to prevent the damage to the water mills. Dahaneye shahr tunnel (city orifice) is one of the three main tunnels which channeled the water from behind the GarGar weir into the water mill and then run several water mills. Seh koreh canal channels the water from behind the GarGar bridge into the western side. In water mills and water falls, there are noticeable mills we can see a perfect model of haltering to run mills.\n\nThe Band-e Kaisar (\"Caesar's dam\"), an approximately long Roman weir across the Karun, was the key structure of the complex which, along with the Band-i-Mizan, retained and diverted river water into the irrigation canals in the area. Built by a Roman workforce in the 3rd century AD on Sassanid order, it was the most eastern Roman bridge and Roman dam and the first structure in Iran to combine a bridge with a dam. \n\nParts of the irrigation system are said to originally date to the time of Darius the Great, an Achaemenian king of Iran. It partly consists of a pair of primary diversion canals in the Karun river, one of which is still in use today. It delivers water to the Shushtar city via a route of supplying tunnels. The area includes Salasel Castel, which is the axis for operation of the hydraulic system. It also consists of a tower for water level measurement, along with bridges, dams, mills, and basins. \n\nThen it enters the plain south from the city, where its impact includes enabling the possibility of farming over the area called Mianâb and planting orchards. In fact the whole area between the two diversion canals (Shutayt and Gargar) on Karun river is called Mianâb, an island having the Shushtar city at its northern end.\n\nThe site has been referred to as \"a masterpiece of creative genius\" by UNESCO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39382303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39382303", "title": "Soylent (meal replacement)", "text": "Soylent (meal replacement)\n\nSoylent is a brand of meal replacement products available in the U.S., named after an artificial food in the science-fiction novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\" Soylent was introduced in 2014 after a crowdfunding campaign that generated nearly $1.5 million in preorders.\n\nIts producer, Rosa Foods, says that Soylent meets all nutritional requirements for an average adult. Initial recipes were first created and tested by software engineer Rob Rhinehart as a self-experiment in nutrition. Subsequently, the powdered version of Soylent was developed into the first product line of Rosa Foods, which currently markets and sells the product. For about two months in late 2016, the company also marketed a solid-form meal bar under the brand name as well, but it was discontinued after reports that it caused gastrointestinal problems for some consumers. Sales of the powdered version were also halted briefly in late 2016 before the product was reformulated and its sales resumed.\n\nRosa Foods says that the current formulation is based on recommendations of the National Academy of Medicine. They established an FDA nutrition facts label and said the product meets the criteria for some health-related claims. Rosa Foods also states that Soylent includes all of the elements of a healthy diet, without excess amounts of sugar, saturated fat or cholesterol. The company also is vocally supportive of genetically modified food.\n\nSoylent began as a 30-day self-experiment in nutrition. In January 2013, software engineer Rob Rhinehart purchased 35 ingredients, most in raw chemical form, which he had concluded based on reading nutritional biochemistry textbooks and U.S. government web sites were every substance that the body needs to survive. Rhinehart, working at a start-up, had come to view food as a time-consuming hassle, and resolved to treat food as an engineering problem. The ingredients included potassium gluconate to get potassium (since pure potassium is too highly reactive to consume), calcium carbonate for calcium, monosodium phosphate for phosphorus, oligosaccharides such as maltodextrin for carbohydrates, and olive oil for fatty acids. With some trepidation, he poured the chemicals into a blender, added water, and drank the mixture. It tasted sweet, like cake mix.\n\nConsuming nothing but Soylent for the next 30 days and measuring his results, Rhinehart claims that his energy levels skyrocketed, his skin improved, prolonged mental concentration was less fatiguing, and he was able to run farther than he ever had before. He adjusted proportions to counter problems such as a racing heart and an iron deficiency. Previously, Rhinehart had spent about two hours a day making food, eating food, and cleaning up afterward. He got Soylent preparation time down to 5 minutes in the evening, plus a few seconds to drink each \"meal\" the next day.\n\nOver the next two months, Rhinehart lived mostly on Soylent, identifying and correcting further problems, and continued to refine the formula. One change was to use oat powder instead of maltodextrin: the original formula had no fiber. His monthly food bill fell from about US$470 to US$50, and Soylent gave him full visibility and control over his nutrition, enabling him to fine-tune his intake of any nutrient at will.\n\nSoylent is named after a food in Harry Harrison's 1966 science fiction novel \"Make Room! Make Room!\" In the novel, most types of \"soylent\" are made from soya and lentils. The word also evokes the 1973 film adaptation \"Soylent Green\", in which the eponymous food is made from human remains. Rhinehart also says he chose the name, with its morbid associations, to pique curiosity and deeper investigation, since the name was clearly not chosen with a traditionally \"flashy\" marketing scheme in mind.\n\nIn 2013, a community of people interested in making their own Soylent emerged online, attracted by the ability to customize nutrition precisely to each person's unique needs. Another software engineer, Nick Poulden, founded the web site diy.soylent.me (now www.completefoods.co), where users shared the results of their own tinkering with the Soylent recipe. Users could enter a nutritional profile and select a recipe, and the web site would calculate exact proportions of each ingredient to yield the desired intake of each nutrient. Zach Alexander, a former professional cook, made a Soylent formula mostly from ingredients available at grocery stores rather than laboratory supply houses, which he calls Hackerschool Soylent.\n\nRhinehart's blog posts about his experiment attracted attention on Hacker News, eventually leading to a crowdfunding campaign on Tilt that raised about $1.5 million in preorders aimed at moving the powdered drink from concept into production. It became one of the most funded crowdfunding projects ever accomplished. After the campaign, Soylent had venture capital financing for a seed round of $1.5 million to further develop proof of concept. Media reports detailed how operations began for Rosa Foods in April 2014, using a relatively small $500 system to ship the first $2.6 million worth of product. In January 2015, Soylent received $20 million in Series A round funding, led by venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz.\n\nPrior to June 2015, Soylent was only available for purchase and shipment to people in the U.S. On June 15, 2015, the shipping of Soylent to Canada was introduced at the same price in U.S. dollars as for U.S. customers. Expansion to European countries is a stated future goal. In October 2017, Canada disallowed further shipments of Soylent due to a failure to meet Canadian food regulations on meal replacements.\n\nIn July 2017, Soylent was sold offline for the first time at 7-Eleven stores around Los Angeles. By April 2018, Soylent was sold in over 8,000 7-Elevens around the country and it is planned to be sold in Walmart.\n\nSoylent Powder is a powder that must be mixed with water to make a drink. The formulas for versions 1.0–1.8 have been published and are freely available. Since version 1.2, all versions have been vegan (i.e., containing no eggs, dairy, or other animal-derived substances).\n\nSoylent Drink, originally called Soylent 2.0, is premixed Soylent with various flavorings added, sold in a bottle.\n\nSoylent Cafe is Soylent Drink mixed with caffeine, L-theanine, and different flavorings. Soylent Cafe was originally called \"Coffiest\", after an extremely habit-forming drink in the 1952 science fiction novel \"The Space Merchants\", by Frederik Pohl and Cyril M. Kornbluth, which gets every customer \"hooked for life\".\nSoylent Bar was Soylent in the form of a solid, edible bar. It was discontinued in October 2016 after reports of gastrointestinal problems.\nThe makers of Soylent say it contains all the nutritional requirements necessary for a healthy lifestyle. There may be social drawbacks of living on a Soylent-only diet, since some critics have said that it comes at the expense of the pleasures from eating and sharing food.\n\nSome people have experienced gastrointestinal symptoms from consumption of Soylent. Speculation on the cause of such symptoms sometimes centered around the amount of dietary fiber contained in the product which is known to cause such symptoms when diets are abruptly altered to increase amounts of fiber consumption. Later versions of the product lowered the amount of fiber content, but this did not stop the reports of gastrointestinal problems. The lower fiber content of the product led to additional criticisms of not containing an adequate amount, compared to daily recommendations, leading some to utilize fiber supplementation.\n\nIn October 2016, Rosa Foods recalled Soylent Bars due to reports of gastrointestinal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. The company is reported to have actively researched the issue with an independent party and suspected soy or sucralose intolerance. However, the company later concluded that algal flour was the cause after reviewing similar reports on Soylent 1.6 (powder), and was reformulating products to remove it. The company halted the sales of Soylent 1.6 after concluding so. TerraVia, the supplier of Soylent's algal ingredients, published a fact sheet in response to media coverage for its algal flour. In December 2016, Soylent released a new iteration of its powdered formula, Soylent 1.7, which no longer contains algal flour.\n\nAs of October 24, 2017, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) is blocking sales of Soylent from Canada on the premise that the label on Soylent does not meet the CFIA requirements to be listed as a meal replacement. Shipping Soylent to Canada has been blocked by the CFIA until Rosa Foods makes changes to its products; Canadian shipments first began in June 2015.\n\nOn August 13, 2015, nonprofit environmental and corporate social responsibility watchdog As You Sow filed a notice of intent to pursue a lawsuit against the makers of Soylent, claiming that Soylent did not adequately label its product given the levels of lead and cadmium present in the drink. The basis for the lawsuit lies in California's Proposition 65, a law that requires additional labeling for food products containing trace amounts of certain substances.\n\nAlthough Soylent contains levels of lead and cadmium far below the national safety levels set by the FDA, it does contain 12 to 25 times the level of lead and 4 times the level of cadmium allowable in a product without additional labeling as specified by Proposition 65. A lawyer who has worked on settlements of Proposition 65 suits described the case as \"alarmist\", as the levels are well below FDA limits of what is allowed in food products. However, as Soylent is marketed as a complete meal replacement, many customers consume the drinks three times a day, equating to 36 to 75 times the lead and 12 times the level of cadmium without the Prop 65 label. As You Sow believes these levels may be harmful. Lead is a neurotoxin that accumulates in soft tissues and bones, and even at low levels is linked to nerve damage, lower IQ, and reproductive problems including decreased sperm count. Cadmium is also a toxic heavy metal and has been linked to kidney, liver, and bone damage.\n\nSoylent's website displays the Proposition 65 warning required by California. Rosa Foods published the position that the levels of heavy metal content in Soylent \"are in no way toxic, and Soylent remains completely safe and nutritious\". Rosa Foods also published an infographic and spreadsheet based on an FDA study of heavy metal content in common foods, comparing two selected example meals to servings of Soylent with a similar amount of caloric intake. Both of the company's chosen comparison meals include high levels of cadmium and arsenic, along with levels of lead similar to those of Soylent; although one of them includes tuna and the other includes salmon, providing over 97% of the arsenic in each proposed meal, with spinach providing 74% of the cadmium in the higher-cadmium meal and fruit cocktail providing 71% of the lead in the higher-lead meal.\n\nOn October 12, 2016, the company announced it would halt sales of the Soylent Bar due to reports of gastrointestinal illness. The company asked customers to discard any unconsumed bars and said it would offer full refunds. On October 21, 2016, the company triggered a product recall, and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) announced it had commenced a food safety investigation.\n\nOn October 27, 2016, the company also halted sales of Soylent Powder. The company said tests on the bar had come back negative for contamination, but also said that some powder users had reported similar stomach-related symptoms from consuming the powder.\n\nOn November 7, 2016, Soylent blamed algal flour for making people sick, and said it planned to remove algal flour from future formulations of the powders and bars, which it did in the next formulation version 1.7 introduced on December 15, 2016. The drink-based products use algal oil, not algal flour, so are deemed to be safe for users.\n\nRhinehart called the flavor of the original versions \"minimal\", \"broad\" and \"nonspecific\". \nSoylent 1.0 contains soy lecithin and sucralose as masking flavors and to adjust appearance, texture and smell.\nBefore version 1.4, vanillin was included as an ingredient for flavoring.\n\nDylan Matthews of \"The Washington Post\" noted in 2013 that Soylent fulfills a similar need as medical foods such as Abbott Laboratories's Jevity, but for a much lower cost.\n\nReviews on the taste of powdered Soylent vary. One reviewer said he was \"pleasantly surprised\" with the \"rich, creamy, and strangely satisfying\" flavor, and another likened it to that of a vanilla milkshake with the texture of pancake batter. Negative reviewers said it tasted \"like someone wrung out a dishtowel into a glass\", said \"my mouth tastes hot and like old cheese\", or that it was \"purposefully bland\", \"vile\" and made the taster \"gag\" and compared the taste to \"homemade nontoxic Play-Doh\".\n\nFarhad Manjoo of \"The New York Times\" said he \"found Soylent to be a punishingly boring, joyless product\". Chris Ziegler of \"The Verge\", who experimented with subsisting only on Soylent for almost a month, said that although he liked and \"never really tired of the flavor\", he still concluded that \"Soylent isn't living, it's merely surviving\", and described the apple he ate at the end of that period as \"my first meal back from the abyss\" and the best he'd ever had in his life.\nAdrian Chen of \"Gawker\" said \"Soylent looks as appetizing as it sounds. The combination of its off-white color, opacity and viscosity made it look – sorry to be gross here – like watered-down semen.\" He said he \"was having trouble getting it down\", and eventually \"dumped the whole thing in the sink\".\n\nBoth Manjoo and Ziegler said they had experienced some gastrointestinal problems from drinking it. Lee Hutchinson of \"Ars Technica\" also reported a brief period of \"adaptation gas\" at the beginning of a four-day experiment.\n\nAmongst the new flavors, Mocha has been described as similar to a \"caffeinated Nesquik drink,\" and Nectar has been described negatively as tasting like \"lemon aspartame.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21755880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21755880", "title": "Spins", "text": "Spins\n\nThe spins (as in having \"the spins\") is an adverse reaction of intoxication that causes a state of vertigo and nausea, causing one to feel as if \"spinning out of control\", especially when lying down. It is most commonly associated with drunkenness or mixing alcohol with other psychoactive drugs such as cannabis. This state is likely to cause vomiting, but having the spins is not life-threatening unless pulmonary aspiration occurs.\n\nThe most common general symptom of having the spins is described by its name: the feeling that one has the uncontrollable sense of spinning, although one is not in motion, which is one of the main reasons an intoxicated person may vomit. The person has this feeling due to impairments in vision and equilibrioception. Diplopia (double vision) or polyplopia are common, as well as the symptoms of motion sickness and vertigo.\n\nIngesting a great deal of alcohol in a short amount of time causes alcohol to quickly enter the bloodstream.\n\nMixing alcohol with normal soft drinks, rather than diet drinks delays the dizzying effects of alcohol because the sugary mixture slows the emptying of the stomach, so that drunkenness occurs less rapidly.\n\nThe dizzying effects of alcohol upset the fragile mechanism that the inner ear uses to balance.\n\nBalance in the body is monitored principally by two systems, both of which are affected by alcohol sending abnormal impulses to the brain, [which tells it] that the body is rotating, causing disorientation and making the eyes spin round to compensate.\n\nThis \"upset\" has been seen in experiments in which human subjects were given clinical tests of the vestibular system before and after ingesting alcohol. The alcohol apparently causes the ampullary cupula in the semicircular canal to become lighter than the surrounding fluid (endolymph), which causes the system to become sensitive to gravity in addition to rotational acceleration.\n\nThe spins are often reported when alcohol is mixed with cannabis, since both may cause dizziness and magnify each other's effects. Smoking after drinking especially intensifies the effects of the alcohol, often resulting in nausea.\n\nSince at least some of the symptoms of \"the spins\" can be attributed to alcohol's disturbance of the vestibular system, many symptom relief strategies are based on increasing the body's ability to use other senses to regain balance. In addition to the vestibular system, vision and touch information from the body are extremely important in maintaining balance. In fact, the vestibular system is not necessary at all to maintain standing balance unless information from the other two systems becomes inadequate.\n\nKeeping one foot flat on the ground while trying to sleep is one popular self-treatment for people whose dizziness is exacerbated by lying down with eyes closed. There is no direct scientific evidence to support this treatment, however it is consistent with studies showing that postural balance responses to high and low speed tilts are primarily driven by force and velocity receptors in the muscles with relatively little input from the vestibular system.\n\nOne way to mask the symptoms of the spins is to avoid staring at moving objects, such as people who are dancing or ceiling fans. Instead, it helps to stare at a non-moving object and slowly blink a few times. However, it will make things worse to keep one's eyes closed for an extended period. In minor cases of the spins, simply sitting alone in a quiet place or taking a walk is all it takes to make them subside.\n\nThe best ways to avoid the spins are to continuously keep monitoring one's alcohol intake, which involves limiting one's intake to a reasonable level and to eat before drinking, which allows alcohol to be metabolized more efficiently and steadily and will keep one's blood sugar levels more even. Certain foods, such as crackers and cheese, have the right levels of carbohydrates, fat, and protein to help further slow the emptying of one's stomach.\n\nSomeone getting or having the spins is mentioned in several books, including: \"Being Irish\" by Joseph Keefe, \"The Girls' Guide to Surviving a Break-Up\" by Delphine Hirsh, \"The Stranger Guide to Seattle\" by Paula Gilovich and Traci Vogel, \"Rag Man\" by Pete Hautman, \"The Tin Roof Blowdown\" by James Lee Burke. Visual depictions of the imbalance or dizziness associated with drunkenness were also featured in \"Mabel's Strange Predicament\" and other Charlie Chaplin movies. The cause of the spins is also described in Season 1, Episode 10 of the Netflix Original Series \"Marvel's Daredevil\" during a discussion between two main characters, Matt Murdock and Foggy Nelson, after a night of drinking. Murdock confirms when asked by Nelson that he still gets the spins despite being blind due to disturbed equilibrium of the fluid in the inner ear. The Pittsburgh rapper, Mac Miller's album \"K.I.D.S\" featured a track titled \"The Spins\". Danger Ronnie and the Spins associate this into their name and music. Rock musician Brian Head Welch references experiencing the spins during his time as an alcoholic and drug addict. He mentions the symptoms were particularly noticeable when laying down with his eyes closed. These references were made in his self-debuted album track \"Flush\". The Philadelphia band Modern Baseball make reference to the spins in their 2014 track \"Rock Bottom\", from the album \"You're Gonna Miss It All\".\n"}
{"id": "27366327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27366327", "title": "St. John Ambulance of Malaysia", "text": "St. John Ambulance of Malaysia\n\nSt. John Ambulance of Malaysia (\"Rumi\" Malay: St. John Ambulans Malaysia, \"Jawi\" Malay: سينت جون ايمبيولنس مليسيا, Traditional Chinese: 馬來西亞聖約翰救護機構, Simplified Chinese: 马来西亚圣约翰救护机构, Tamil: செயின்ட் ஜான் ஆம்புலன்ஸ் மலேசியா, Abbreviation: SJAM) is a Malaysian-based, non-profit statutory body dedicated to the works of humanity and charity for the relief of persons in sickness, distress, suffering or danger without any distinction of race, class, colour or creed. With a history stretching back over a century, SJAM forms part of the wider St. John Ambulance, a foundation of the Venerable Order of Saint John with presence in 41 sovereign states, dependencies, autonomies or territories.\n\nThe history of St. John Ambulance in the present day Malaysia started in 1908 with the formation of St. John Ambulance Association (\"SJAA\") by a group of medical officers in the Colonial Medical Service; Capt. Dr. John Sutton Webster, Dr. Richard Desmond Fitzgerald and Mr. Arthur Mitchell Goodman were among the pioneers of St. John Ambulance activities in the then British Malaya. When the war clouds were gathering in 1938, the British Administration decided to form the St. John Ambulance Brigade (\"SJAB\") in all larger towns. By 1939, SJAB could be found in the Federated Malay States and Straits Settlements, plus the unfederated states of Kelantan, Johor and Kedah. SJAB members were first recruited as stretcher-bearers. Once they were proficient, they attended first aid lectures. In early 1941, regular meetings and air raid practices were held with the Air Raid Precaution Corps.\n\nIn September 1941, the authorities introduced the Medical Auxiliary Service and all SJAB members were automatically drafted into this service. When the Japanese Forces raided the Malay Peninsula from 8 December 1941, the SJAB members did magnificent work in all the first aid posts. Many SJAB members withdraw to the south together with the British Forces as their towns were captured one after another by the Japanese Forces. Many more served in the Battle of Singapore and lost their lives for the Service of Mankind. St. John Ambulance was the only voluntary organisation in the Malay Peninsula that rendered medical services before and during the Second World War.\n\nThe return of the British after the end of the Second World War has resulted in the re-organisation of many institutions and that contributed to the expansion of SJAA and SJAB in Malaya and North Borneo.\n\nIn a move to further strengthen the operations of SJAA and SJAB, particularly after the independence of Malaya in 1957 and the subsequent merger between Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak (to form Malaysia) in 1963, the Government of Malaysia decided to amalgamate SJAA and SJAB in Malaya, Sabah and Sarawak into one Corporation known as the St. John Ambulance of Malaysia. This was made possible with the passing of the St. John Ambulance of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act, 1972 by the Federal Parliament. The Royal Assent was granted on 23 March 1972.\n\nThe present leadership and governance structure of SJAM was established following the enactment of St. John Ambulance of Malaysia (Incorporation) Act, 1972 (including its subsidiary legislations).\n\nThe Yang di-Pertuan Agong is the Royal Patron of SJAM. The appointment is currently held by the reigning monarch, Sultan Muhammad V.\n\nThe affairs of SJAM are governed by the St. John Council of Malaysia, presided by the National President and the Deputy National President. By law, the roles are automatically conferred to the Prime Minister of Malaysia and the Minister of Health, Malaysia respectively and, they are respectively held by Tun Dr. Mahathir bin Mohamad and Dr. Dzulkefly bin Ahmad at present. Membership of the Council consists of principal officers of SJAM, representatives from various Federal ministries and agencies, as well as individuals of high standing who are independent.\n\nDay-to-day management affairs rests with the Commander-in-Chief, who is also the Chairman of Council.\n\nSJAM is headed by a Commander-in-Chief. Appointed by the National President, he is responsible to the Council as the chief executive of the Corporation, assisted by a Deputy Commander-in-Chief. The appointment of Commander-in-Chief is currently held by Dato' Lai See Ming, KStJ whereas his deputy is Prof. Dato' Sri Dr. Haji Abu Hassan Asaari bin Abdullah.\n\nSJAM has two main areas of activity, as follows:\n\n\nThe SJAM National Headquarters, in Kuala Lumpur, oversees the activities of SJAM in the whole of Malaysia. The organisation is then divided into 14 States/Region, each having their own State/Regional Headquarters. With the exception of the Region of Wilayah Persekutuan (\"Federal Territory\", consisting the cities of Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya), all other states are divided into Areas (each with an Area Headquarters) to smoothen the coordination process amongst Divisions and the State Headquarters due to geographical factors. Grassroots volunteers are grouped into Divisions.\n\nWith the exception of a handful of paid staff, all other personnel in SJAM, including the principal officers at the National Headquarters, are volunteers.\n\nMembership in SJAM is open to all individuals of good character, good physique and medically fit between 17 and 65 years of age. SJAM accepts suitable and interested individuals from all walks of life but passing the Basic First Aid examination is a pre-requisite before an individual is recognised as having attained the minimum competency to be a uniformed volunteer. First aid training and induction courses are provided to all prospective volunteers free of charge.\n\nSJAM is led by volunteers appointed to functional roles. While all new volunteers would usually be admitted at the basic rank of Ambulance Member (male) or Nursing Member (female), a higher rank may be subsequently assigned, as appropriate, based on respective functional appointments to describe a formal grade within the organisation conferring authority.\n\nVolunteers are provided with progressive training and re-training opportunities and can complete a number of first aid qualifications. Training for basic to intermediate skill sets are usually provided at Divisional-level, whereas training for additional and enhanced skills such as ambulance driving and handling, management of mass-casualty incidents, as well as the use of an automated external defibrillator (\"AED\") are centrally conducted by suitable qualified trainers at the State/Regional Headquarters or Area Headquarters.\n\nWhilst the majority of volunteers in SJAM are non-healthcare professionals, SJAM welcomes the involvement of healthcare professionals such as Medical Practitioners, Paramedics, Nurses and Medical Assistants to volunteer. Unlike the rest, healthcare professionals do not require to demonstrate their competency through attaining first aid certificates, but their qualifications and professional status are checked with the appropriate regulatory body before admission to SJAM. Healthcare professionals are required for tasks appropriate to their technical competencies during operational duties, as well as training for other volunteers in certain enhanced skills.\n\nSuitably experienced volunteers, upon demonstrating outstanding competency in Advanced First Aid, may be chosen to be developed as First Aid Trainers. Chosen candidates will undergo development, exposure and assessment in methodology of training before being accredited as First Aid Trainers. Volunteers with such accreditation are entrusted to facilitate training and re-training activities for other volunteers, as well as first aid courses for the public.\n\nRelevant training activities targeting on management, administration and leadership are also provided to volunteers appointed to functional roles. Many volunteers argued that their experience in SJAM, coupled with such exposures, have somewhat given an edge to their career.\n\nConsistent with its motto and objectives, SJAM offers a wide range of first aid and pre-hospital care services to the public through its Operations Wing, mostly provided free of charge.\n\nSJAM volunteers attend thousands of events across the country every year, covering a variety of public events such as marathons and other sporting events, parades, public gatherings, and concerts, providing first aid to the sick and injured. Such service is provided free at the point of delivery, although a charge may be levied on the event organiser for attendance at commercial events. The provision of services during public duties are not limited to first aid; ambulances are provided in most events for rapid transportation. Where necessary, SJAM may also provide healthcare professionals to provide assistance at mobile treatment centres.\n\nSJAM has also successfully experimented the use of bicycles to maximise on efficiency and effectiveness during public duties involving a larger area of coverage. SJAM currently has two Cycle Response Units in Kuala Lumpur and Penang, staff by the volunteers of SJAM Wilayah Persekutuan and SJAM Penang respectively.\n\nDue to its commendable and consistent track record, SJAM has also been deployed to render aid to the sick and wounded in many difficult situations; more recently, the Bersih Rallies in 2007, 2011 and 2012, as well as the HINDRAF Rally in 2007, all occurred in Kuala Lumpur. SJAM volunteers have acted professionally and neutrally, and provided relief without any distinction of race, class, colour or creed.\n\nSJAM is certified by the Malaysian Book of Records as the voluntary organisation with the largest fleet of ambulances in Malaysia. All ambulances are commissioned for active transport duties of the following nature:\n\nSJAM provides support to the Ministry of Health's statutory ambulance service in metropolitan areas, responding to 999 calls and assisting during times of major incidents. From its humble beginning in Kuala Lumpur and greater Klang Valley on 10 September 1998, EMAS has now been extended statewide in Selangor and Penang, and selected cities and towns in Kedah, Perak, Johor and Sabah.\n\nSJAM was the first in Malaysia to introduce the use of AED in 2001 - it began when all EMAS ambulances in Kuala Lumpur, operated by SJAM Wilayah Persekutuan, were fitted with an AED each.\n\nMotor vehicle accidents rate is significantly higher during major festivities due to the \"balik kampung\" (home return) rush. Many incidents along the expressways and highways became fatal due to delays in pre-hospital care. Since 1996, SJAM began stationing ambulances and volunteers at strategic locations along expressways and major highways during major festivities as one of its efforts to ensure quicker response to such incidents.\n\nThe large fleet of ambulances is also used in the provision of non-emergency transport service, transferring patients with limited mobility and/or requiring care during the journey to every part of the country, as well as into neighbouring countries (Singapore and Thailand), where land crossing permits.\n\nSince 2010, SJAM has been partnering the Air Unit of the Royal Malaysian Police (\"RMP\") in providing EMARS. Based at Simpang Airport near downtown Kuala Lumpur, the RMP helicopters are capable of being converted into air ambulances where necessary, and during EMARS deployment, specially-trained SJAM volunteers are assigned to provide patient care on board.\nThe services of Training Wing is 2-prong. Besides providing support to the Operations Wing through the formulation of curriculum and provision of technical training/assessment, the Training Wing is also responsible in addressing the first aid learning and education needs of the public.\n\nSJAM runs first aid courses for external individuals and organisations in return for a modest fee. SJAM has assisted many commercial establishments in training their employees as first aiders based on the popular First Aid at Work syllabus.\n\nSJAM, in collaboration with the Open University Malaysia (\"OUM\") contemplates to develop a 3-year Diploma programme in pre-hospital emergency care using the blended pedagogy of face-to-face learning, online participation of learners to interact with tutors and their peers, self learning through a module and relevant materials in OUM's Tan Sri Abdullah Sanusi Digital Library and attachments at SJAM's EMAS in various parts in Malaysia as well as in hospitals. This programme, recognised by the Malaysian Quality Agency and the Ministry of Higher Education, is designed to address the acute and urgent need to develop a sophisticated pre-hospital care system in Malaysia to upgrade knowledge and skills of emergency medical technicians. The first intake for this programme took place in mid-2010.\n\nAmong the initiatives of the Training Wing in support of capacity building efforts in pre-hospital care systems in Malaysia are as follows:\n\nSJAM also owns and manages an in-house Clinical Skill Lab, branded as SJAM Academy. Located in Cheras, Kuala Lumpur, the Clinical Skill Lab is fitted with state-of-the-art facilities to facilitate training in pre-hospital care, and is predominantly used for the SJAM-OUM Diploma in Pre-Hospital Emergency Care programme and advanced training for volunteers. The opening of SJAM Academy was officiated by Professor Anthony Roger Mellows, Lord Prior of the Venerable Order of Saint John on 13 January 2012.\n\nSJAM also promotes continuous learning through healthy competitions of knowledge and skills between pre-hospital care providers in Malaysia. The binneial National Open Pre-Hospital Care Competition is a relatively new initiative championed by SJAM to bring together pre-hospital care providers, both paid personnel and volunteers, from all over the country to compete in a scenario-based competition. The winners of Tuan RS Gurcharan Singh Challenge Trophy since the inaugural competition in 2009 are as follows:\n\nBesides the main areas of services, SJAM also provides various services to the community; some are specific to local needs. Among them:\n\nWith traditions and customs inherited from the SJAB, SJAM is somewhat paramilitary in its protocol and image and hence, SJAM volunteers is recognisable by its distinct white-and-black uniform. Volunteers are required to wear uniform to provide services, both for identification and to present a professional image. Unlike the uniform of other volunteer organisations in Malaysia, SJAM uniform is protected by the law, and may only be worn by volunteers who have been certified to have at least the minimum competency to be a uniformed personnel.\n\nThere are presently three orders of dress intended for different situations, as follows:\n\nUniform No. 2 is the most widely used among the three. Yellow/green two-tone high visibility garments are sometimes worn over Uniform No. 2 for outdoor events for safety and ease of identification. For Officers, there are two variants of Uniform No. 2. Beret is worn during operational duties and field parade events only, whereas Peaked Cap (male) or Bowler's Hat (female) are used in Uniform No. 2 in events other than operational duties.\n\nFor training and informal events, Training Order (consisting green-white/white SJAM polo T-shirt and black trousers similar to Uniform No. 2) is worn. On rare occasions (subject to waiver instructions), Training Order is also used for operational duties, but it is usually invoked during disasters which requires rapid mobilisation and deployment of volunteers, or when long hours of stand-by is required or expected.\n\nWhile Officers are expected to maintain all of the orders of dress as discussed above, Uniforms No. 1 and 3 remains optional to the members of other ranks (Staff Sergeant and below).\n\nSJAM Cadets is the youth section of SJAM for young people aged between 10 and 17 years (inclusive). The history of SJAM Cadets could be traced to the formation of the first ambulance cadet division of SJAB in Penang back in 1938. Since then, it has grown to be one of the biggest youth activities in Malaysia. Cadet divisions can be found in most secondary schools as an extracurricular activity, where cadets take part in a wide variety of activities - providing first aid at community events, participating in first aid competitions, completing awards, attending camps and learning leadership skills.\n\nSJAM is an affiliate of the Malaysian Youth Council.\n\nThere are two award schemes that cadets can achieve during their time at SJAM Cadets, as follows:\n\nThe Grand Prior Award, named after the Grand Prior of the Venerable Order of Saint John, is the highest award a cadet can achieve. The Cadet Proficiency Scheme involves cadets completing twelve subjects over a period not less than three years to encourage them to take an interest in subjects outside their normal curricula and widen their horizons by carrying out these studies in their leisure time. Beyond SJAM Cadets, a recipient of the Grand Prior Award is allowed to retain the Grand Prior Award badge on the uniform if he or she chooses to advance his or her status into a full member of SJAM.\n\nThe Special Service Shield is awarded to cadets to encourage them to undertake duties and services which benefit the community on voluntary basis. The first badge is awarded upon completing a minimum of 100 hours of service; further badges are awarded for 200, 500, 750 and ultimately, 1000 hours of service. The badge for 1000 hours of service may be retained on the uniform if the recipient chooses to advance his or her status into a full member of SJAM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1689365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689365", "title": "Terri Schiavo timeline", "text": "Terri Schiavo timeline\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1192721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192721", "title": "Walkerton E. coli outbreak", "text": "Walkerton E. coli outbreak\n\nThe 2000 Walkerton outbreak of waterborne gastroenteritis was the result of a contamination of the water supply of Walkerton, Ontario, Canada with \"E. coli\" and \"Campylobacter jejuni\" bacteria. The contamination sickened more than two thousand people and resulted in six deaths. Two town officials eventually pleaded guilty to charges of common nuisance stemming from the contamination.\n\nWalkerton, Ontario is a small township in the municipality of Brockton, northwest of Toronto. It serves as the administrative centre of Brockton, into which it was merged in 1999, and as the county seat of Bruce County. The population of Walkerton in 1996 was recorded as 5,036 individuals within the township's . At the time of the 2000 events, the town's drinking water was drawn from three chlorinated wells to the west and southwest of the town. The wells were owned and operated by the Walkerton Public Utilities Commission (PUC), which was managed by Stan Koebel and run by foreman Frank Koebel.\n\nIn 2000, the Walkerton Public Utilities Commission was under the supervision of two men, brothers Stan and Frank Koebel. Both men had been working for the PUC since the 1970s, when they were teenagers and their father worked at the PUC. Neither man had formal training in public utility operation or in water management, but by 2000, both had been promoted to management positions on the basis of their experience. Both brothers carried certification as class 3 water distribution system operators, licences obtained through a grandfathering program run by the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) and based on their work experience in their positions. Though Ontario law required that water systems operators receive 40 hours of continuing education per year, Stan Koebel interpreted this to include activities only marginally related to water systems, such as CPR certification, and as a result neither brother used continuing education time to gain or maintain expertise in water safety.\n\nAs a result of their lack of formal training and their overseeing themselves, the Koebel brothers were relatively uninformed about water safety. Both later testified that they were not familiar with sections of the Ontario Drinking Water Standards documentation (ODWS) that dealt with tasks they needed to be aware of to do their jobs adequately: manager Stan Koebel had not read the section of the ODWS about identifying contaminated water, while foreman Frank Koebel had not read the chapter on chemical testing of water for safety purposes. Neither man had more than a passing familiarity with \"E. coli\" or the danger the bacteria posed to water systems, nor with chlorination standards and best practices.\n\nThe wells that drew water for Walkerton were known as Well 5, Well 6, and Well 7, with Well 5 being both the southernmost and the closest to the residential portion of the township. Well 5, drawing water from depths of and through soft limestone, was brought online to the Walkerton water system in 1978, following a hydrological evaluation commissioned by the PUC. Because Well 5's aquifer drew partially from spring-fed, gravel-soiled zones that were prone to absorbing surface runoff, the hydrological evaluation recommended that Well 5 be monitored regularly to ensure that water was being drawn from lower well depths rather than higher ones. It also recommended that land usage in the immediate area of the well be limited in light of agricultural waste runoff being detectable in the well's water. Neither of these recommendations was implemented as conditions of operation when Well 5 received a Certificate of Approval in 1979. Multiple subsequent tests on the well between 1979 and 2000 continued to conclude that due to the shallow depth at which Well 5 was drilled and the tendency of its water level and makeup to be directly affected by surface runoff, caution toward contamination levels in the well was advisable.\n\nWells 6 and 7 were drilled more deeply and drew from areas of land with significantly less fractured bedrock than well 5.\n\nIn 2000, Ontario law indicated that in a community the size of Walkerton, at least thirteen water samples per month should be submitted for microbiological testing, with the samples being drawn from \"the point at which the treated water enters the distribution system\". A longstanding standard at the Walkerton PUC, however, was to comply with an earlier governmental requirement of nine samples per month. Employees were instructed to collect four weekly samples from each of the three wells that served Walkerton. This meant that even in an ideal month, the PUC typically submitted one fewer sample than required by law; in practice, it was more common for eight or nine samples to be submitted than for thirteen to be. In addition, the samples that were submitted often had their points of origin mislabelled; for the sake of convenience, testing employees might draw two samples from one location but label the bottles as having come from two locations, or draw a water sample from the water supply of their own home rather than from within distribution points of the system. As a result, not all water sources were being tested adequately, and there was little regularity to which ones were tested when. Multiple Ministry of the Environment documents dating to throughout the 1990s note that Walkerton's sampling practices were lacking. Walkerton was placed on a list of non-compliant municipalities in 1997, but removed shortly thereafter after assurances from Stan Koebel that compliance would improve. Nevertheless, a 1998 inspection verified that eight or nine samples were still the standard of collection in Walkerton. The PUC was again warned about noncompliance, and again Stan Koebel agreed to improve testing practices.\n\nMOE reports throughout the 1990s also noted that the PUC was inadequately chlorinating water that ran through the Walkerton system. Best practices dictated that chlorine residual levels after fifteen minutes of contact between the chlorine and the water be maintained at 0.5 mg/L, with that level verified through daily testing; this would indicate that the water was being adequately purified of potentially harmful microorganisms. Inspections of the Walkerton system in 1991, 1995, and 1998 showed chlorine residual levels in the Walkerton system of between 0.12 mg/L and 0.4 mg/L, with a mean level of 0.27 mg/L. According to the later \"Walkerton Inquiry\", \"Stan Koebel testified that he generally set the chlorinator to slightly less than 0.5 mg/L and that Frank Koebel would lower it to approximately 0.3 mg/L several times a month.\" Both men felt that Walkerton water was adequately pure and safe without a 0.5 mg/L chlorine residual—they were known to willingly drink raw water from the wells—and they had received complaints from community members about system water tasting overly chlorinated. The PUC's evaluation of chlorine residual levels was typically performed weekly, rather than daily, and actual testing was often eschewed in favour of visually inspecting the \"bubble\" on the chlorinator for a \"guesstimate\" of the residual. These \"guesstimates\" would be noted in the PUC's daily operating sheets as if they were actual tested levels. When actual testing was performed, the 15-minute timeframe of the test was often cut short, resulting in higher-than-reality chlorine residual readings.\n\nFecal coliform and \"E. coli\" testing on Well 5 between 1990 and 2000 showed ongoing deterioration in the quality of water from the well. In the mid-1990s, a provision for more intensive monitoring of wells susceptible to groundwater contamination was added to the Ontario Drinking Water Objectives (ODWO); however, the Ministry of the Environment (MOE) failed to apply this provision to reclassifying existing wells. As a result, despite tests repeatedly showing that Well 5 was prone to contamination, it did not have any contamination alarms or emergency shut-off mechanisms. April 2000 sampling done on water from Wells 5 and 6 showed fecal coliform present in Well 5's water, both raw and treated, but not in Well 6's. Well 7 was not running during this time period and was not tested. May 1, 2000 tests showed similar results, with Well 5 being the sole apparent contaminated water source.\n\nMay 15 water testing on the Highway 9 water main construction project in Walkerton returned positive results for fecal coliform and \"E. coli\". Due to inaccurate labelling of the samples' sources by PUC personnel, it was unclear to the testing laboratory which water samples had come from Walkerton's raw water versus its treated water, or which water had come from which well source; however, the laboratory notified Stan Koebel on May 17 that submitted samples had tested positive for \"E. coli\" and fecal coliform. Personnel from the testing laboratory, unaware that Ontario Drinking Water Objectives mandated the notification of the Ministry of the Environment in such a case, did not notify any agency besides the PUC of the failed testing results.\n\nUsing knowledge about typical incubation periods of (average 3–4 days) and \"Campylobacter\" (average 2–5 days) bacteria and working backwards from the first emergence of symptoms in the community, investigators determined that the majority of infected community members had been exposed to the bacteria between May 13 and May 16 and the contamination had thus likely entered the infective well on or about May 12.\n\nIn the spring of 2000, Walkerton's system typically drew most of its water from one well at a time, alternating unevenly between wells 5, 6, and 7. Well 7 was turned off between March 10 and May 2, ran alone from May 2 through May 9 before turning off again, and was then used again between May 15 and May 19. From May 9 to May 13, Well 5 provided the bulk of Walkerton's water, supplemented from May 10–13 by Well 6. Though Well 7 ran without chlorination between May 3 and May 9, expert evaluation of well 7's pumping schedule and lack of physical vulnerabilities to contamination concluded that it was highly unlikely to have been involved in the outbreak. Well 6, which records indicate was out of service beginning May 13, was similarly determined to have been unlikely to have been the source of contamination based on its location and characteristics.\n\nTo the immediate south and west of Well 5 lay farmland used as a cattle-breeding operation, occupying four lots (18–21, west to east). On April 22, 2000, following heavy rainfall on April 20–21, manure from the cattle was used to fertilize crops growing on lot 20 of the property, the nearest edge of which lay approximately from Well 5. The manure was subsequently incorporated into the soil of lot 20 using a disc harrow.\n\nThe April incorporation of \"E. coli\"-contaminated manure into cool, wet soil near Well 5 meant that the bacteria were in an ideally suited environment for longevity. Subsequent heavy rains totalling fell between May 8 and May 12, drawing the bacteria deeper into the soil near Well 5. During later investigations of the outbreak, experts on the Walkerton Commission Expert Review Panel determined that the manure-contaminated water had likely seeped into the aquifer that underlay Well 5, though it may have been possible that surface runoff, rather than contaminated groundwater, was the source of the bacteria.\n\nCattle manure, even under best practices, typically contains fecal coliform bacteria, including \"E. coli\". A subsequent government report concluded that the cattle operation had followed all safety and husbandry best practices with regard to manure storage and use, and that though the \"E. coli\" contamination had almost certainly come from the farm's manure usage, the farm's operator was not at fault for contamination of the well.\n\nBeginning May 17, 2000, absenteeism in the Walkerton school system took an upswing. That day, the Walkerton Hospital treated seven children suffering from gastrointestinal ailments involving cramping and diarrhea. The illnesses were not initially recognized as part of a pattern, and no report was made to the Bruce-Grey-Owen-Sound Health Unit, which was responsible for public health in Grey and Bruce counties.\n\nOn May 18, twenty students were absent from the Mother Theresa School in Walkerton; the next day, twenty-five were, with a further four sent home from Mother Theresa and eight sent home from the Walkerton Public School. The increasing number of community illnesses became even more noticeable on May 19, when a pediatrician and a retirement home both reported outbreaks of gastroenteritis among their charges. By May 20, the Walkerton hospital had fielded calls from more than a hundred people about incidences of gastroenteritis in the town, and attended to dozens more in their Emergency Department. Attending physicians and health care workers, aware that the gastroenteritis symptoms they were seeing were consistent with possible \"E. coli\" infection, began collecting stool samples from affected patients.\n\nWhen public health officials put together common reports, they found that three area hospitals had recorded incidences of patients suffering from gastroenteritis symptoms. Walkerton's hospital recorded the highest number of such patients, with at least twenty patients visiting the emergency department with bloody diarrhea on May 20, and two more patients admitted for diarrhea-connected dehydration. Hospitals in two neighbouring towns had each seen one case of bloody diarrhea.\n\nOn May 20, early laboratory testing was completed on fecal samples submitted the day before. \"E. coli\" O157 was found in at least one sample from the Owen Sound Hospital; when health officials contacted other hospitals in the Bruce-Grey system, they found that all were handling patients with gastrointestinal ailments consistent with \"E. coli\" infection. Potential \"E. coli\" infection changed the treatment plan for patients reporting to these hospitals or to local doctors; anti-motility medication that would typically be prescribed to patients suffering from diarrhea unrelated to \"E. coli\" could in fact exacerbate the condition of patients whose diarrhea was due to \"E. coli\" infection, and any patient infected with \"E. coli\" O157 was at risk for potentially fatal hemolytic-uremic syndrome.\n\nDavid Patterson, the Assistant Director of Health Protection at Bruce-Grey-Owen-Sound Health Unit (BGOSHU), immediately contacted Beverly Middleton, a public health inspector in the Owen Sound office of the Health Unit, and the two officials began passing along information to local medical facilities about how to properly treat \"E. coli\"-based gastroenteritis. Later the same day, Patterson asked James Schmidt, Middleton's counterpart in the Walkerton Health Unit, to contact the PUC and obtain information on chlorination levels in the water system. Stan Koebel informed Schmidt that chlorine residuals in the distribution system were 0.1 to 0.4 parts per million; based on lack of familiarity with water chlorination, Patterson concluded that the presence of chlorine residuals at any level indicated that the water system was free of contamination. He proceeded with investigating other possible sources for the \"E. coli\". Throughout May 20, Patterson expressed his understanding to community members and other investigators that Walkerton's water could not be the source of the outbreak; BGOSHU personnel also urged the PUC to issue a press release assuring the public of the safety of the water.\n\nBy May 18, rumours were already circulating that Walkerton PUC water was the cause of the illness increasing numbers of residents were suffering. Staff at the PUC had also begun receiving calls enquiring as to the safety of town water. On May 19, public health officials contacted the Walkerton PUC about the possibility of the water system being involved in transmission of the gastroenteritis; they were told that the town's drinking water was \"okay\". After speaking to public health officials that day, Stan Koebel began the process of flushing the system and increasing chlorination levels, procedures he described to David Patterson as \"precautionary\". This flushing continued into May 20; Koebel's testing records from that day note sharply increased chlorine residual levels, though evidence later indicated that Koebel's testing had likely been done improperly and thus returned higher-than-reality chlorination results. The same day, Koebel returned Well 5, which had not been feeding Walkerton's water supply since May 15, to service. The well was then turned off at 1:15 a.m. on May 21.\n\nChief Justice of Ontario Dennis O'Connor's later report on the event concluded that by May 19, Koebel was aware that the May 15 testing of water in the Walkerton system had returned results that indicated contamination, and his action to flush the system with heavily chlorinated water from Well 7 on May 19 was taken in the hopes of eradicating the contamination before further tests could be conducted. Significantly, Koebel did not disclose to the health inspectors to whom he spoke on May 19 or May 20 any information about known adverse test results or the fact that he knew Well 7 had been providing unchlorinated water to the system from May 15 to May 19. O'Connor's report interpreted this not as an act of accidental omission, but as a deliberate attempt by Koebel to conceal what he knew to be substandard and potentially unsafe practices in his department. At the same time, however, Koebel continued to consume PUC-served water and allow his family to do the same with no apparent concern about its safety; O'Connor concluded that while Koebel knew the system was contaminated, he did not understand that the \"E. coli\" bacteria causing the contamination were potentially deadly.\n\nOn May 20, Robert McKay, a PUC employee who was on medical leave at the time, anonymously contacted the Ministry of the Environment's Spills Action Centre (SAC) to report potential issues with the Walkerton water supply; after observing fire hydrants being used for system flushing, he had concluded that the flushing may have been related to the ongoing illness outbreak in the community and felt that he needed to report his conclusion. McKay also reported to the SAC that Walkerton water had failed \"lab tests\", but he was unable to provide detail about what aspect of the water quality had caused the failure. Later in the day on May 20, McKay attempted to contact the Ministry of Health directly about his suspicions, but was unable to get in contact with anyone empowered to handle issues in Walkerton; hoping to speed up government response time, he phoned the SAC again to report his knowledge that the Walkerton PUC was using an \"unlicensed operator\".\n\nSAC employees, in response to this information, contacted the Walkerton PUC the same day for information on possible adverse water testing results. Stan Koebel acknowledged to the MOE that \"we've had the odd [adverse sample]\" due to previous construction work but that the system flushing was occurring only as \"a precaution\". The MOE employee who spoke to Koebel believed that this meant any adverse samples of Walkerton water were in the past, and filed his subsequent report of the conversation accordingly; Koebel had again failed to note that he was aware of current test results that showed evidence of \"E. coli\" and fecal coliforms.\n\nMorning news reports on public radio on May 21 carried a statement by Dr. Murray McQuigge, Walkerton's Medical Officer of Health, reflecting medical investigators' then-current understanding that Walkerton's water system was presumed to be secure and not involved in the outbreak. McQuigge's quoted opinion also characterized \"E. coli\" as \"unlikely\" to be the source of the gastroenteritis outbreak.\n\nBy 12 p.m. on May 21, however, laboratory results had confirmed enough cases of \"E. coli\" O157 in area gastroenteritis patients to merit a declaration by the Bruce-Grey-Owen-Sound Health Unit that an infective outbreak existed and was being caused by \"E. coli\" O157 contamination somewhere. The Health Unit issued an outbreak number and alerted neighbouring health units of its situation, as well as notifying a variety of Walkerton-centred government and management bodies, including the Walkerton PUC.1.\n\nShortly after the definitive laboratory results were received, McQuigge, representing BGOSHU, contacted David Thompson, the mayor of Brockton, Walkerton's parent municipality. According to McQuigge, the conversation involved McQuigge alerting Thompson to the fact that that community members were falling ill with potentially fatal \"E. coli\" infections; according to Thompson, \"E. coli\" was not mentioned in the conversation and he was left with the impression that the illnesses presented no imminent threat to public health. Despite their conflicting memories of the conversation, both McQuigge's and Thompson's later testimonies agreed that there had been no request issued that the mayor take action in response to the illnesses; Brockton's emergency plan was not put into action, and Thompson did not contact any public agencies to seek either information or action.\n\nGiven that the outbreak was continuing and that no reliable information was yet available about the source of the contamination, the BGOSHU issued a cautionary Boil Water Advisory (BWA) to the community, to be distributed via local radio stations only. Local television stations were not contacted about the advisory, nor was national CBC Radio; no paper version of the advisory was distributed to the community that day. Local radio station CKNX-FM, under the impression that the BWA was cautionary only, reported the advisory at roughly hourly intervals, beginning at 1:30 p.m., rather than more rapidly as they later stated they might have if the import of the announcement had been made clear to them at the time. As a result of the limited distribution of information regarding the BWA, much of the community remained unaware of the Boil Water Advisory until days after its May 21 issuance.\n\nAround the time the BWA was first being broadcast, David Patterson contacted the MOE's Spills Action Centre (SAC) to officially report an \"E. coli\" outbreak in Walkerton. Paul Webb, the SAC employee taking Patterson's phone call, mentioned that they had previously been contacted by an anonymous source (Robert McKay) about the quality of water coming out of the Walkerton PUC. The men discussed the PUC's assurances that their water was safe, and the call ended with no action. Shortly afterward, however, Patterson contacted Stan Koebel at the Walkerton PUC again. Koebel expressed dismay at the Boil Water Advisory and the fact that the PUC had not been notified of it beforehand. He asked Patterson's advice for the best next steps to take; Patterson suggested increasing chlorination levels in the system.\n\nThe same afternoon, the Spills Action Centre contacted Stan Koebel directly to discuss the ongoing events; Koebel once again failed to mention prior known adverse testing results. In later testimony, he acknowledged that this had been a deliberate omission; the O'Connor report concluded that Koebel had been hoping that when new samples were collected on May 23, they would test clean and lift the burden from his shoulders. Stan and Frank Koebel again spent part of their day on May 21 flushing the system.\n\nAt 2:30 p.m. on May 21, the BGOSHU convened a strategic response team to handle the outbreak. After discussion, the team decided to directly notify at-risk or involved institutions, including hospitals, of the Boil Water Advisory. The Walkerton hospital received its notification at 3:30 p.m. that day. Prior to this, and despite numerous contacts with BGOSHU staff, hospital personnel had not been aware of potential danger from Walkerton water; in some cases hospital personnel had been told specifically that water was \"not\" the cause of the outbreak.\n\nThe Ministry of the Environment nominally received notification of the outbreak from a message left on the home answering machine of employee Philip Bye. Bye, however, did not recognize the significance of \"E. coli\" being present in Walkerton water and, believing the measures public health officials had already taken to be sufficient to deal with the contamination, he did not pass the news on to the emergency response arm of the MOE that day.\n\nIn the face of rising community casualties—by the evening of May 21, 270 people had contacted the Walkerton hospital after experiencing gastroenteritis symptoms, and one patient had had to be airlifted to London, Ontario for treatment—the situation was being perceived as increasingly serious by most of those involved. That evening, the BGOSHU contacted the Minister of Health and the Chief Medical Officer of Health of Ontario. Requests were placed with the Ministry of Health for an epidemiologist and for staff to assist in treating Walkerton-region gastroenteritis patients; public health staff began looking into acquiring equipment that would be needed to treat any \"E. coli\" patients whose infections progressed to Hemolytic-Uremic Syndrome (HUS).\n\nDavid Patterson ordered further testing of Walkerton's water, sending James Schmidt to collect samples of water from various sources in Walkerton, including \"food premises, hospitals, and the health unit office\". Patterson received Schmidt's collected samples and drove them to London overnight. The samples were received by the London Regional Public Health Laboratory at 12:45 a.m. on May 22; a further round of sampling was ordered to be done the next day.\nDespite increased awareness of the severity of the outbreak, as May 22 began, some links in the public safety chain were still uninformed as to either the existence of the outbreak or the fact that it presented a real and present danger to public health. Mayor David Thompson, himself suffering from symptoms of gastroenteritis, which he assumed to be flu, took no investigatory or emergency-preparedness action on May 22, nor did James Kieffer, chair of the PUC, who had been alerted to the outbreak the day before. MOE employee Philip Bye, who had been notified by BGOSHU phone call the previous evening, did not understand that \"E. coli\" contamination was a life-threatening emergency; he took no action until he was contacted again later on May 22 by a concerned Dr. McQuigge. At that point, Bye sent an environmental officer to join the investigation in Walkerton.\n\nThe MOE environmental officer dispatched by Bye, John Earl, spoke first to David Patterson, who expressed his growing suspicion that Walkerton PUC water was the source of the contamination; Patterson asked Earl to obtain further information and records from Stan Koebel. Koebel, in his verbal interview with Earl, failed again to provide information about adverse water testing results and other potentially crucial system information; he informed Earl that Well 7 has had a new chlorinator installed, for example, but omitted mention that this had been after the well had pumped unchlorinated water into the system for days. Earl requested and was given documentation regarding well testing, water distribution maps, and pumping history for the wells. Included in this documentation were records of the May 17 adverse testing results of May 15 samples from the \"Highway 9\" water main construction; excluded was pumping history for Well 7. Earl returned to the MOE with these documents and reviewed them, noting the May 17 testing results, but notified no one else of these results.\n\nAfter Earl left the PUC, Stan Koebel contacted his brother Frank to ask him to \"clean up\" the pumping log for Well 7. Stan Koebel hoped to have a new document to present to Earl the next day that would not reflect that Well 7 had been unattended to and unchlorinated. Frank Koebel complied with this request. He destroyed the previous version of the document and created a new one with fictitious data: the new document showed Well 7 as not having operated on the days it had actually been pumping unchlorinated water into the system, and contained chlorine residual records for Well 7 which were entirely fictitious. Frank Koebel later testified that he had falsified this document \"so it would look better to the MOE\".\n\nWhile the Ministry of the Environment investigated the outbreak from the procedural end, public health officials swung into a medical investigation. Early epidemiological investigation had demonstrated fairly strongly that infection risk seemed to correlate to physical presence in Walkerton—even for patients visiting other area hospitals, investigators typically found that the patient lived in or had visited Walkerton during the period of their infection— and investigators now began making telephone calls to patients, gathering information about onset of symptoms, possible methods of exposure, and the patients' personal demographic information.\n\nA compilation of data from this secondary investigation demonstrated that most patients had an onset of symptoms within a fairly narrow window of time, with the highest rate of onset occurring on May 17. Taking into account the incubation period of \"E. coli\" infection, the medical team determined that most patients had been exposed to the pathogen between May 12 and May 14. Investigators had less luck trying to pinpoint a physical source of the infection; when affected patients' residences were mapped, their distribution across a map of Walkerton showed no immediately apparent pattern, with affected populations present in all areas served by Walkerton's water system.\n\nBy that evening, public health investigators had concluded based on patient interviews and demographic mapping that the water system was the most likely vector of infection, despite their not being aware of the corroborating documents that John Earl had collected. They began notifying branch offices of the BGOSHU of the outbreak and its cause.\n\nThe BGOSHU's May 22 presumptive conclusion about Walkerton's water was confirmed at 8:45 the following morning, when the London Regional Public Health Laboratory reported testing results on the water Schmidt had collected on May 21 and 22: both \"E. coli\" and fecal coliform results had come back positive on the May 21 samples, and though testing was not complete on the May 22 samples, evidence of coliform growth was already apparent.\n\nJohn Earl returned to the PUC that morning to continue his investigation. Stan Koebel gave him the Well 7-related documents that he and Frank Koebel had falsified, and Earl began to analyse the documentation he had collected over the past few days. He noted apparent irregularities in the pumping histories of all three wells, as well as unlikely chlorination levels recorded for Well 5. He communicated these irregularities to the MOE's Philip Bye, but neither man reported them outside of his own organization.\n\nAt 9:45 on the morning of May 23, David Patterson contacted Stan Koebel at the Walkerton PUC and informed him of the May 21 test results. Koebel, realizing that his attempts to clean the system beginning May 19 had not been sufficient, confessed to Patterson that he had been aware of the contamination of Walkerton water since May 17. Koebel was reportedly \"distraught\" at this point in the conversation. After ending his call with Koebel, Patterson immediately passed on the information about the May 15 test results to the chairman of the Board of Health and to Murray McQuigge, the local Medical Officer of Health.\n\nShortly after 11 a.m., a press conference was held at the Walkerton hospital. Led by McQuigge and attended by hospital staff, BGOSHU staff, and the media, this press conference was the first reliable report to the public of the existence and causes of an \"E. coli\" outbreak in the community.\n\nThe Walkerton hospital hosted a roundtable at 1 p.m. the same day to inform local physicians of proper treatment for -associated gastroenteritis, especially with regard to infected children, who were at increased risk for renal failure due to Hemolytic-Uremic Syndrome. Shortly thereafter, BGOSHU staff met with the Brockton city council in the council's chambers. This meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of the Environment and the Public Utilities Commission as well as of BGOSHU and the city council. The attendees of the meeting reviewed what was known thus far about the timeline of the outbreak, discussed what steps could be taken going forward, and attempted to analyse the adequacy of their response to the crisis thus far. MOE representative Philip Bye announced that the MOE would be investigating the ways in which Walkerton's water system could have become the cause of the outbreak. McQuigge, in response to questions, asserted that he did not believe the public could have been notified with a Boil Water Advisory any earlier than they were; prior to May 21, neither the distribution of hospital admissions nor then-current testing results supported publicly declaring a problem in Walkerton.\n\nThe meeting became heated, with McQuigge urging Stan Koebel to \"come clean\", Koebel refusing to disclose adverse test results, and McQuigge and Mayor Thompson exchanging confrontational words as the meeting broke up. McQuigge later claimed that he had urged Thompson to \"tell the public what you know\"; Thompson alleged that McQuigge had threatened him if he \"bl[e]w the whistle on me or Brockton\".\n\nLater in the afternoon, Thompson and the council convened a private meeting without BHOSHU staff to decide their next steps. Stan Koebel told meeting participants that testing had shown bacteriological issues in Wells 5 and 7; though he allowed that Well 7's chlorinator had not been functioning properly, he did not disclose that Well 7 had in fact been operating without any chlorinator at all. With the input of Koebel and Steve Burns, an engineer with the Highway 9 project's consulting firm, it was decided that Burns's firm would develop an action plan to remediate the water contamination. On the basis of this remediation plan, meeting participants decided that it would not be necessary to declare a state of emergency in Walkerton.\n\nDespite this declaration, publicizing of the epidemic, and the Boil Water Advisory, local hospitals continued to treat gastroenteritis patients during the last week of May at numbers more than double typical ER throughput. Hospital staff were forced to take emergency measures, with elective and deferrable treatments redirected to other hospitals and out-of-town medical staff being pressed into service. By May 24, there had been four patient deaths and the Walkerton hospital and the BGOSHU were playing host to three epidemiologists from various arms of Health Canada. 27 people had developed HUS, a serious and potentially deadly complication of \"E. coli\" infection. The full death toll for the outbreak was initially reported as seven, but later revised to six.\n\nWhile the community attempted to recover from the events of May 2000, anger and blame ran high. On May 25, Murray McQuigge had made a public statement saying that in his opinion, dissemination of information to the community had been hampered by lack of disclosure of adverse PUC testing results, and patient deaths could have been prevented had disclosure been made earlier; by May 29, a $1 billion class-action lawsuit had been filed by community members similarly alleging that local officials had failed in their duty to notify the community.\n\nAuthorities from the Ontario Clean Water Agency took over operations at the Walkerton Public Utilities Commission on May 25 at the request of Mayor Thomson. The next day, the Ontario Provincial Police launched an investigation into the causes of the outbreak, followed within days by a coroner's inquest and an environmental investigation.\n\nDuring the outbreak, both Stan and Frank Koebel denied any wrongdoing and firmly held that the water at Walkerton was safe to drink. However, as the outbreak grew in severity the two were eventually part of the criminal investigation into the incident, and, as a result, both would eventually plead guilty to a charge of common nuisance through a plea bargain. In their plea, they admitted to falsifying reports and Frank admitted to drinking on the job, as a beer fridge did exist at the facility.\n\nThey were both formally sentenced on December 21, 2004, with Stan receiving one year in jail and Frank Koebel nine months of house arrest. Reaction to their sentencing was mixed.\n\nThe Ontario Clean Water Agency was put in charge of the cleanup of Walkerton's water system after the outbreak.\n\nAn inquiry, known as the Walkerton Commission led by Court of Appeal for Ontario Associate Chief Justice Dennis O'Connor, wrote a two-part report in 2002. Part 1 was released in January 2002. The Walkerton Report, Part One, described events in the community and a series of failures, both human and systemic, that led to contamination of the water supply. The report made recommendations based on the circumstances of the outbreak. It estimated that the Walkerton water contamination cost a minimum of C$64.5–155 million and laid much of the blame at the door of the Walkerton Public Utilities Commission:\nThe Walkerton Public Utilities Commission operators engaged in a host of improper operating practices, including failing to use adequate doses of chlorine, failing to monitor chlorine residuals daily, making false entries about residuals in daily operating records, and misstating the locations at which microbiological samples were taken. The operators knew that these practices were unacceptable and contrary to Ministry of Environment guidelines and directives.\nThe Ontario government of Mike Harris was also blamed for not regulating water quality and not enforcing the guidelines that had been in place. The water testing had been privatized in October 1996.\n\nPart 2 of the report made many recommendations for improving the quality of water and public health in Ontario. Part Two discussed water safety across the province and the steps needed to prevent similar tragedies. It made ninety-three recommendations. All of its recommendations have been accepted by succeeding governments of the province. The recommendations have also influenced provincial policies across Canada.\n\nKey recommendations touched on source water protection as part of a comprehensive multi-barrier approach, the training and certification of operators, a quality management system for water suppliers, and more competent enforcement. In Ontario, these requirements have been incorporated into new legislation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe lessons learned from this incident were described by Kim Vicente in his book \"\".\n\nA 2005 CBC Television docudrama called \"Betrayed\" was based loosely upon the Walkerton \"E. coli\" outbreak.\n\nOn May 11, 2018 the \"Toronto Star\" reported that Robbie Schnurr had doctors assist him in committing suicide due to suffering caused by the outbreak.\n\n\n\n"}
