{"id": "22219418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22219418", "title": "955 acorn triode", "text": "955 acorn triode\n\nThe type 955 triode \"acorn tube\" is a small triode thermionic valve (vacuum tube in USA) designed primarily to operate at high frequency. Although data books specify an upper limit of 400–600 MHz, some circuits may obtain gain up to about 900 MHz. Interelectrode capacitances and Miller capacitances are minimized by the small dimensions of the device and the widely separated pins. The connecting pins are placed around the periphery of the bulb and project radially outward: this maintains short internal leads with low inductance, an important property allowing operation at high frequency. The pins fit a special socket fabricated as a ceramic ring in which the valve itself occupies the central space. The 955 was developed by RCA and was commercially available in 1935. \n\nThe 955 is one of about a dozen types of \"acorn valve\", so called because their size and shape is similar to the acorn (nut of the oak tree), introduced starting in 1935 and designed to work in the VHF range. The 954 and 956 types are sharp and remote cut-off pentodes, respectively, both also with indirect 6.3 V, 150 mA heaters. Types 957, 958 and 959 are for portable equipment and have 1.25 V NiCd battery heaters. The 957 is a medium-μ signal triode, the 958 is a transmitting triode with dual, paralleled filaments for increased emission, and the 959 is a sharp cut-off pentode like the 954. The 957 and 959 draw 50 mA heater current, the 958 twice as much. In 1942, the 958A with tightened emission specs was introduced after it turned out that 958s with excessively high emission kept working after the filament power was turned off, the filament still sufficiently heating on the anode current alone.\n\nWhen viewing the device from above (the end without the exhaust tip), the pins are arranged in a group of three and a group of two, starting with the centre pin in the group of three and going in a clockwise direction, the pins are \"cathode, heater, grid, anode, heater\".\n\nThe 955 is an \"indirectly heated triode\" with heater electrically isolated from the cathode. The heater has a 6.3 volt rating, which it shares with many other common thermionic valves/electron tubes, and it draws about 150 mA.\n\nThe maximum anode voltage is 250 V, with an anode current of 420 microamperes and anode load 250 kilohm, and the maximum anode current is 4.5 mA at a voltage of 180 V with an anode load of 20 kilohm. The 955 is designed to be used in the frequency range of 60–600 MHz (5-0.5 metres wavelength).\nThe amplification factor obtained is between 20 and 25 depending on details of the specific stage design and operating voltage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2108845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108845", "title": "Alpha Capricorni", "text": "Alpha Capricorni\n\nAlpha Capricorni (α Capricorni, abbreviated Alpha Cap, α Cap) is an optical double star in the constellation of Capricornus. The two physically-unrelated components are designated:\n\nThey are separated by 0.11° on the sky, and resolvable with the naked eye, similar to Mizar and Alcor. α¹ Capricorni is fainter (apparent magnitude 4.27) than α² Capricorni (apparent magnitude 3.58).\n\n\"α Capricorni\" (Latinised to \"Alpha Capricorni\") is the system's Bayer designation; \"α¹\" and \"α² Capricorni\", those of the two components.\n\nAlpha Capricorni bore the traditional names \"Algedi\", \"Algiedi\", \"Al Giedi\" or \"Giedi\", derived from the Arabic \"الجدي\" \"al-jady\" \"the billy goat\" or \"kid\". It also refers to the entire constellation of Capricornus. \"Giedi\" is sometimes also associated with Beta Capricorni. \"α¹\" and \"α² Capricorni\" were also called \"Prima Giedi\" and \"Secunda Giedi\", respectively. In 2016, the International Astronomical Union organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalogue and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name \"Algedi\" for \"α² Capricorni\" on 21 August 2016 and it is now so entered in the IAU Catalog of Star Names.\n\nAlpha Capricorni is known as 牛宿二 (the Second Star of the Ox) in Chinese astronomy.\n\n"}
{"id": "24600565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600565", "title": "Baseball rubbing mud", "text": "Baseball rubbing mud\n\nBaseball rubbing mud is mud used to treat balls in the sport of baseball to give pitchers better control and a firmer grip on the balls.\n\nBefore the use of rubbing mud, baseballs were rubbed in a mixture of water and infield soil, but this method usually discolored the ball's leather surface. Other alternatives at the time were tobacco juice, shoe polish, and soil from under stadium bleachers. They were able to successfully take off the sheen from baseballs, but at the same time, they also damaged and scratched the ball's leather. While Lena Blackburne was a third-base coach for the Philadelphia Athletics baseball team, an umpire complained to him about the method used at the time, prompting Blackburne in 1938 to set out in search of better mud to use to rub against baseballs. Later that decade, Blackburne discovered the rubbing mud's location (said to be \"near\" Palmyra, New Jersey) and founded the company that he used to sell it. According to the company, the entire American League used the mud soon after its discovery, and by the 1950s, it was in use by every major league team, along with some minor league and college teams.\n\nWhen age prevented Blackburne from harvesting the mud, he left the company to a friend, John Haas; according to the company, Haas had accompanied Blackburne during his searches for an appropriate mud. Haas later left the company to his son-in-law Burns Bintliff, who in turn selected one of his nine children, current owner Jim, to carry on the business. Jim Bintliff told CNN reporter Thomas Andres in 2009 that the company only brought in about $20,000 per year; at the time, he worked full-time as a printing press operator.\n\nThe mud originates from the New Jersey side of the Delaware River. The mud is cleaned and screened before sale. Each year Jim Bintliff visits the mud's source and returns with 1,000 pounds of it to store over the winter and sells it the following baseball season. He told Andres:\n\nIf anybody happens to catch me in the act of harvesting mud, I come up with a story to give them a reason I'm putting mud in a bucket. I've told people I use it in my garden, I use it for my rose bushes, I use it for bee stings and poison ivy and any kind of story.\n\nBefore all major- and minor-league baseball games, an umpire or clubhouse attendant rubs six dozen or more balls with the mud to give them a rougher surface, to make them easier for pitchers to grip, and to comply with MLB Rule 4.01(c), which states that all baseballs shall be \"properly rubbed so that the gloss is removed.\" The rubbing mud's unique feature is that it is \"very fine, like thick chocolate pudding\", and it has been considered the \"perfect baseball-rubbing mud\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5150449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5150449", "title": "Bio of a Space Tyrant", "text": "Bio of a Space Tyrant\n\nBio of a Space Tyrant series is a six-book science-fiction series by Piers Anthony based within the solar system. The series revolves around the character Hope Hubris and his family, and charts Hope's ascent from poor Hispanic refugee to Tyrant of Jupiter, a single person heading the Executive, Judicial and Legislative branches of the government. It is considerably more adult-themed than many of Anthony's earlier works.\n\nThe novels are set in a future several hundred years distant at a point where the nations of Earth have expanded into and filled the solar system. Various planets, moons and asteroids within the solar system have political, religious and geographical affiliations similar to those on 1980s Earth. Many events in the series parallel modern-day situations; for instance, Mars is controlled by the countries formerly comprising the Middle East, and has the largest supply of iron, the primary fuel in Anthony's universe. Ganymede parallels Cuba, and has a Communist government allied with North Saturn's, which corresponds to the Soviet Union. A \"missile crisis\" is an event in the series; many other such correspondences abound.\n\nThe series is presented as Hope's first-person autobiography, and paints his life's broad strokes from the earliest pages, including his image as a tyrant and womanizer. It is clear from the introductions and epilogues that Hope died before his memoir's publication and that his career as military man, politician, executive and statesman was greatly misunderstood by the public, especially his various affairs with women, a major focus of the series.\n\n\nMany of the situations in the series are direct parallels to real situations on Earth. For instance, Hope at one point is stationed on Chiron (an analogue of Cyprus) in order to keep the peace between colonists of Greek and Turkish descent; the attempt by Hope's family, Hispanic refugees from a moon of Jupiter that is analogous to Hispaniola, to enter Jupiter resembles problems in the U.S. with immigration, including Hope's inability to find work as anything other than a poorly paid agricultural worker.\n\nThe solar system of Anthony's universe directly parallels the political makeup of modern Earth, as outlined in appendices in the series. Following are the many correspondences:\n\n"}
{"id": "39337116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39337116", "title": "Biomaterial Surface Modifications", "text": "Biomaterial Surface Modifications\n\nBiomaterials exhibit various degrees of compatibility with the harsh environment within a living organism. They need to be nonreactive chemically and physically with the body, as well as integrate when deposited into tissue. The extent of compatibility varies based on the application and material required. Often modifications to the surface of a biomaterial system are required to maximize performance. The surface can be modified in many ways, including plasma modification and applying coatings to the substrate. Surface modifications can be used to affect surface energy, adhesion, biocompatibility, chemical inertness, lubricity, sterility, asepsis, thrombogenicity, susceptibility to corrosion, degradation, and hydrophilicity.\n\nTeflon is a hydrophobic polymer composed of a carbon chain saturated with fluorine atoms. The fluorine-carbon bond is largely ionic, producing a strong dipole. The dipole prevents Teflon from being susceptible to Van der Waals forces, so other materials will not stick to the surface. Teflon is commonly used to reduce friction in biomaterial applications such as in arterial grafts, catheters, and guide wire coatings.\n\nPEEK is a semicrystalline polymer composed of benzene, ketone, and ether groups. PEEK is known for having good physical properties including high wear resistance and low moisture absorption and has been used for biomedical implants due to its relative inertness inside of the human body.\n\nPlasma modification is one way to alter the surface of biomaterials to enhance their properties. During plasma modification techniques, the surface is subjected to high levels of excited gases that alter the surface of the material. Plasma's are generally generated with a radio frequency (RF) field. Additional methods include applying a large (~1KV) DC voltage across electrodes engulfed in a gas. The plasma is then used to expose the biomaterial surface, which can break or form chemical bonds. This is the result of physical collisions or chemical reactions of the excited gas molecules with the surface. This changes the surface chemistry and therefore surface energy of the material which affects the adhesion, biocompatibility, chemical inertness, lubricity, and sterilization of the material. The table below shows several biomaterial applications of plasma treatments. \n\nThe surface energy is equal to the sum of disrupted molecular bonds that occur at the interface between two different phases. Surface energy can be estimated by contact angle measurements using a version of the Young–Laplace equation:\n\nformula_1 \n\nWhere formula_2 is the surface tension at the interface of solid and vapor, formula_3 is the surface tension at the interface of solid and liquid, and formula_4 is the surface tension at the interface of liquid and vapor. Plasma modification techniques alter the surface of the material, and subsequently the surface energy. Changes in surface energy then alter the surface properties of the material.\n\nSurface modification techniques have been extensively researched for the application of adsorbing biological molecules. Surface functionalization can be performed by exposing surfaces to RF plasma. Many gases can be excited and used to functionalize surfaces for a wide variety of applications. Common techniques include using air plasma, oxygen plasma, and ammonia plasma as well as other exotic gases. Each gas can have varying effects on a substrate. These effects decay with time as reactions with molecules in air and contamination occur. \n\nAmmonia plasma treatment can be used to attach amine functional groups. These functional groups lock on to anticoagulants like Heparin decreasing thrombogenicity.\n\nPolysaccharides have been used as thin film coatings for biomaterial surfaces. Polysaccharides are extremely hydrophilic and will have small contact angles. They can be used for a wide range of applications due to their wide range of compositions. They can be used to reduce the adsorption of proteins to biomaterial surfaces. Additionally, they can be used as receptor sites, targeting specific biomolecules. This can be used to activate specific biological responses.\n\nCovalent attachment to a substrate is necessary to immobilize polysaccharides, otherwise they will rapidly desorb in a biological environment. This can be a challenge due to the fact that the majority of biomaterials do not possess the surface properties to covalently attach polysaccharides. This can be achieved by the introduction of amine groups by RF glow discharge plasma. Gases used to form amine groups, including ammonia or n-heptylamine vapor, can be used to deposit a thin film coating containing surface amines. Polysaccharides must also be activated by oxidation of anhydroglucopyranoside subunits. This can be completed with sodium metaperiodate (NaIO). This reaction converts anhydroglucopyranoside subunits to cyclic hemiacetal structures, which can be reacted with amine groups to form a Schiff base linkage (a carbon-nitrogen double bond). These linkages are unstable and will easily dissociate. Sodium cyanoborohydride (NaBHCN) can be used as a stabilizer by reducing the linkages back to an amine.\n\nThere are many examples of contamination of biomaterials that are specific to the preparation or manufacturing process. Additionally, nearly all surfaces are prone to contamination of organic impurities in the air. Contamination layers are usually limited to a monolayer or less of atoms and are thus only detectable by surface analysis techniques, such as XPS. It is unknown whether this sort of contamination is harmful, yet it is still regarded as contamination and will most certainly affect surface properties.\n\nGlow discharge plasma treatment is a technique that is used for cleaning contamination from biomaterial surfaces. Plasma treatment has been used for various biological evaluation studies to increase the surface energy of biomaterial surfaces, as well as cleaning. Plasma treatment has also been proposed for sterilization of biomaterials for potential implants.\n\nAnother method of altering surface properties of biomaterials is to coat the surface. Coatings are used in many applications to improve biocompatibility and alter properties such as adsorption, lubricity, thrombogenicity, degradation, and corrosion.\n\nIn general, the lower the surface tension of a liquid coating, the easier it will be to form a satisfactory wet film from it. The difference between the surface tension of a coating and the surface energy of a solid substrate to which a coating is applied affects how the liquid coating flows out over the substrate. It also affects the strength of the adhesive bond between the substrate and the dry film. If for instance, the surface tension of the coating is higher than the surface tension of the substrate, then the coating will not spread out and form a film. As the surface tension of the substrate is increased, it will reach a point to where the coating will successfully wet the substrate but have poor adhesion. Continuous increase in the coating surface tension will result in better wetting in film formation and better dry film adhesion.\n\nMore specifically whether a liquid coating will spread across a solid substrate can be determined from the surface energies of the involved materials by using the following equation:\n\nformula_5\n\nWhere S is the coefficient of spreading, formula_6 is the surface energy of the substrate in air, formula_7 is the surface energy of the liquid coating in air and formula_8 is the interfacial energy between the coating and the substrate. If S is positive the liquid will cover the surface and the coating will adhere well. If S is negative the coating will not completely cover the surface, producing poor adhesion.\n\nOrganic coatings are a common way to protect a metallic substrate from corrosion. Up until ~1950 it was thought that coatings act as a physical barrier which disallows moisture and oxygen to contact the metallic substrate and form a corrosion cell. This cannot be the case because the permeability of paint films is very high. It has since been discovered that corrosion protection of steel depends greatly upon the adhesion of a noncorrosive coating when in the presence of water. With low adhesion, osmotic cells form underneath the coating with high enough pressures to form blisters, which expose more unprotected steel. Additional non-osmotic mechanisms have also been proposed. In either case, sufficient adhesion to resist displacement forces is required for corrosion protection.\n\nGuide wires are an example of an application for biomedical coatings. Guide wires are used in coronary angioplasty to correct the effects of coronary artery disease, a disease that allows plaque build up on the walls of the arteries. The guide wire is threaded up through the femoral artery to the obstruction. The guide wire guides the balloon catheter to the obstruction where the catheter is inflated to press the plaque against the arterial walls. Guide wires are commonly made from stainless steel or Nitinol and require polymer coatings as a surface modification to reduce friction in the arteries. The coating of the guide wire can affect the trackability, or the ability of the wire to move through the artery without kinking, the tactile feel, or the ability of the doctor to feel the guide wire's movements, and the thrombogenicity of the wire.\n\nHydrophilic coatings can reduce friction in the arteries by up to 83% when compared to bare wires due to their high surface energy. When the hydrophilic coatings come into contact with bodily fluids they form a waxy surface texture that allows the wire to slide easily through the arteries. Guide wires with hydrophilic coatings have increased trackability and are not very thrombogenic; however the low coefficient of friction increases the risk of the wire slipping and perforating the artery.\n\nTeflon and Silicone are commonly used hydrophobic coatings for coronary guide wires. Hydrophobic coatings have a lower surface energy and reduce friction in the arteries by up to 48%. Hydrophobic coatings do not need to be in contact with fluids to form a slippery texture. Hydrophobic coatings maintain tactile sensation in the artery, giving doctors full control of the wire at all times and reducing the risk of perforation; though, the coatings are more thrombogenic than hydrophilic coatings. The thrombogenicity is due to the proteins in the blood adapting to the hydrophobic environment when they adhere to the coating. This causes an irreversible change for the protein, and the protein remains stuck to the coating allowing for a blood clot to form.\n\nUsing an MRI to image the guide wire during use would have an advantage over using x-rays because the surrounding tissue can be examined while the guide wire is advanced. Because most guide wires' core materials are stainless steel they are not capable of being imaged with an MRI. Nitinol wires are not magnetic and could potentially be imaged, but in practice the conductive nitinol heats up under the magnetic radiation which would damage surrounding tissues. An alternative that is being examined is to replace contemporary guide wires with PEEK cores, coated with iron particle embedded synthetic polymers.\n"}
{"id": "63942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63942", "title": "Biosafety level", "text": "Biosafety level\n\nA biosafety level is a set of biocontainment precautions required to isolate dangerous biological agents in an enclosed laboratory facility. The levels of containment range from the lowest biosafety level 1 (BSL-1) to the highest at level 4 (BSL-4). In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have specified these levels. In the European Union, the same biosafety levels are defined in a directive. In Canada the four levels are known as Containment Levels. Facilities with these designations are also sometimes given as P1 through P4 (for Pathogen or Protection level), as in the term \"P3 laboratory\".\n\nAt the lowest level of biosafety, precautions may consist of regular hand-washing and minimal protective equipment. At higher biosafety levels, precautions may include airflow systems, multiple containment rooms, sealed containers, positive pressure personnel suits, established protocols for all procedures, extensive personnel training, and high levels of security to control access to the facility.\n\nThe first prototype Class III (maximum containment) biosafety cabinet was fashioned in 1943 by Hubert Kaempf Jr., then a U.S. Army soldier, under the direction of Dr. Arnold G. Wedum, Director (1944–69) of Industrial Health and Safety at the United States Army Biological Warfare Laboratories, Camp Detrick, Maryland. Kaempf was tired of his MP duties at Detrick and was able to transfer to the sheet metal department working with the contractor, the H.K. Ferguson Co.\n\nOn 18 April 1955, fourteen representatives met at Camp Detrick in Frederick, Maryland. The meeting was to share knowledge and experiences regarding biosafety, chemical, radiological, and industrial safety issues that were common to the operations at the three principal biological warfare (BW) laboratories of the U.S. Army. Because of the potential implication of the work conducted at biological warfare laboratories, the conferences were restricted to top level security clearances. Beginning in 1957, these conferences were planned to include non-classified sessions as well as classified sessions to enable broader sharing of biological safety information. It was not until 1964, however, that conferences were held in a government installation not associated with a biological warfare program.\n\nOver the next ten years, the biological safety conferences grew to include representatives from all federal agencies that sponsored or conducted research with pathogenic microorganisms. By 1966 it began to include representatives from universities, private laboratories, hospitals, and industrial complexes. Throughout the 1970s, participation in the conferences continued to expand and by 1983 discussions began regarding the creation of a formal organization. The American Biological Safety Association (ABSA) was officially established in 1984 and a constitution and bylaws were drafted the same year. As of 2008, ABSA includes some 1,600 members in its professional association.\n\nBiosafety level 1 (BSL-1) is suitable for work with well-characterized agents which do not cause disease in healthy humans. In general, these agents should pose minimal potential hazard to laboratory personnel and the environment. At this level, precautions are limited relative to other levels. Laboratory personnel must wash their hands upon entering and exiting the lab. Research with these agents may be performed on standard open laboratory benches without the use of special containment equipment. However, eating and drinking are generally prohibited in laboratory areas. Potentially infectious material must be decontaminated before disposal, either by adding an appropriate disinfectant, or by packaging for decontamination elsewhere. Personal protective equipment is only required for circumstances where personnel might be exposed to hazardous material. BSL-1 laboratories must have a door which can be locked to limit access to the lab, however it is not necessary for BSL-1 labs to be isolated from the general building.\n\nThis level of biosafety is appropriate for work with several kinds of microorganisms including non-pathogenic \"Escherichia coli\", \"Bacillus subtilis\", \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" and other organisms not suspected to contribute to human disease. Due to the relative ease and safety of maintaining a BSL-1 laboratory, these are the types of laboratories generally used as teaching spaces for high schools and colleges.\n\nAt this level, all precautions used at Biosafety Level 1 are followed, and some additional precautions are taken. BSL-2 differs from BSL-1 in that:\n\nBiosafety level 2 is suitable for work involving agents of moderate potential hazard to personnel and the environment. This includes various microbes that cause mild disease to humans, or are difficult to contract via aerosol in a lab setting. Examples include Hepatitis A, B, and C viruses, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), pathogenic \"Escherichia coli\", \"Staphylococcus aureus\", \"Salmonella\", \"Plasmodium falciparum\", and \"Toxoplasma gondii\".\n\nBiosafety level 3 is appropriate for work involving microbes which can cause serious and potentially lethal disease via the inhalation route. This type of work can be done in clinical, diagnostic, teaching, research, or production facilities. Here, the precautions undertaken in BSL-1 and BSL-2 labs are followed, as well as additional measures including:\n\nIn addition, the facility which houses the BSL-3 laboratory must have certain features to ensure appropriate containment. The entrance to the laboratory must be separated from areas of the building with unrestricted traffic flow. Additionally, the laboratory must be behind two sets of self-closing doors (to reduce the risk of aerosols escaping). The construction of the laboratory is such that it can be easily cleaned. Carpets are not permitted, and any seams in the floors, walls, and ceilings are sealed to allow for easy cleaning and decontamination. Additionally, windows must be sealed, and a ventilation system installed which forces air to flow from the \"clean\" areas of the lab to the areas where infectious agents are handled. Air from the laboratory must be filtered before it can be recirculated.\n\nBiosafety level 3 is commonly used for research and diagnostic work involving various microbes which can be transmitted by aerosols and/or cause severe disease. These include \"Francisella tularensis\", \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\", \"Chlamydia psittaci\", Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, Eastern equine encephalitis virus, SARS coronavirus, \"Coxiella burnetii\", Rift Valley fever virus, \"Rickettsia rickettsii\", several species of \"Brucella\", chikungunya, yellow fever virus, and West Nile virus.\n\nBiosafety level 4 (BSL-4) is the highest level of biosafety precautions, and is appropriate for work with agents that could easily be aerosol-transmitted within the laboratory and cause severe to fatal disease in humans for which there are no available vaccines or treatments. BSL-4 laboratories are generally set up to be either cabinet laboratories or protective-suit laboratories. In cabinet laboratories, all work must be done within a class III biosafety cabinet. Materials leaving the cabinet must be decontaminated by passing through an autoclave or a tank of disinfectant. The cabinets themselves are required to have seamless edges to allow for easy cleaning. Additionally the cabinet and all materials within must be free of sharp edges in order to reduce the risk of damage to the gloves. In a protective-suit laboratory, all work must be done in a class II biosafety cabinet by personnel wearing a positive pressure suit. In order to exit the BSL-4 laboratory, personnel must pass through a chemical shower for decontamination, then a room for removing the positive-pressure suit, followed by a personal shower. Entry into the BSL-4 laboratory is restricted to trained and authorized individuals, and all persons entering and exiting the laboratory must be recorded.\n\nAs with BSL-3 laboratories, BSL-4 laboratories must be separated from areas that receive unrestricted traffic. Additionally airflow is tightly controlled to ensure that air always flows from \"clean\" areas of the lab to areas where work with infectious agents is being performed. The entrance to the BSL-4 lab must also employ airlocks to minimize the possibility that aerosols from the lab could be removed from the lab. All laboratory waste, including filtered air, water, and trash must also be decontaminated before it can leave the facility.\n\nBiosafety level 4 laboratories are used for diagnostic work and research on easily transmitted pathogens which can cause fatal disease. These include a number of viruses known to cause viral hemorrhagic fever such as Marburg virus, Ebola virus, Lassa virus, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever. Other pathogens handled at BSL-4 include Hendra virus, Nipah virus, and some Flaviviruses. Additionally, poorly characterized pathogens which appear closely related to dangerous pathogens are often handled at this level until sufficient data are obtained either to confirm continued work at this level, or to work with them at a lower level. This level is also used for work with Variola virus, the causative agent of smallpox, though this work can only be done at the World Health Organization approved facilities at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, United States, as well as the State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology in Koltsovo, Russia.\n\nSample-return missions that bring back to Earth samples obtained from a Category V body, must be curated at facilities rated BSL-4. Because the existing BSL-4 facilities in the world do not have the complex requirements to ensure the preservation and protection of Earth and the sample simultaneously, there are currently at least two proposals to build a BSL-4 facility dedicated to curation of restricted (potentially biohazard) extraterrestrial materials. \n\nThe first is the European Sample Curation Facility (ESCF), proposed to be built in Vienna, would curate non-restricted samples as well as BSL-4 biocontainment of restricted material obtained from Category V bodies such as Mars, Europa, Enceladus, etc.\nThe other proposal is by NASA and is tentatively known as the Mars Sample-Return Receiving facility (MSRRF). At least three different designs were submitted in 2009. If funded, this American facility would be expected to take 7 to 10 years from design to completion, and an additional two years is recommended for the staff to become proficient and accustomed to the facilities. NASA is also assessing a 2017 proposal to build a mobile and modular BSL-4 facility to secure a sample return capsule at the landing site to conduct preliminary biohazard analyses. After completion of biohazard testing, decisions could be made to sterilize the sample or transport all or portions to a permanent quarantine storage facility anywhere in the world.\n\nThe systems of such facilities must be able to contain unknown biohazards, as the sizes of any putative alien microorganisms or infectious agents are unknown. Ideally it should filter particles of 0.01 µm or larger, and release of a particle 0.05 µm or larger is unacceptable under any circumstance.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report published on October 4, 2007, a total of 1,356 CDC/USDA registered BSL-3 facilities were identified throughout the United States. Approximately 36% of these laboratories are located in academia. 15 BSL-4 facilities were identified in the U.S. in 2007, including nine at federal labs.\nThe following is a list of existing BSL-4 facilities worldwide.\n\nA North Carolina Mosquito & Vector Control Association (NCMVCA) study highlighted safety concerns. In the United States, laboratories can be funded by federal, state, private, non-profit, or academically. The last accounts for 72% of the funding. There is no central monitoring agency accountable for monitoring laboratories and standards vary according to funding, the age of the laboratory, and is dependent on the size and whether it is SA approved.\n\nHigh-containment labs that are registered with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Select Agent Program must adhere to Department of Defense standards. No single federal agency, according to 12 agencies' responses to a GSA survey, has the mission to track the overall number of BSL-3 and BSL-4 labs in the United States. This means no agency is responsible for determining the risks associated with the proliferation of these labs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1787388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1787388", "title": "Blanca Peak", "text": "Blanca Peak\n\nBlanca Peak is the fourth highest summit of the Rocky Mountains of North America and the U.S. state of Colorado. The ultra-prominent peak is the highest summit of the Sierra Blanca Massif, the Sangre de Cristo Range, and the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. The fourteener is located north by east (bearing 9°) of the Town of Blanca, on the drainage divide separating Rio Grande National Forest and Alamosa County from the Sangre de Cristo Land Grant and Costilla County. The summit is the highest point of both counties and the entire drainage basin of the Rio Grande. Below the steep North Face of Blanca Peak two live Glaciers once developed, until extinction sometime after 1903. North & South Blanca Glaciers were located at 37° 35N.,longitude 105° 28W. Blanca Peak is higher than any point in the United States east of its longitude.\n\nThe Blanca Peak Tripoint of Alamosa, Costilla, and Huerfano counties is located on the same drainage divide approximately northeast by north (bearing 30°) of the Blanca Peak summit at the boundary of the San Isabel National Forest. The Blanca Peak Tripoint is the highest point in Huerfano County.\n\nBlanca Peak is located at the southern end of the Sangre de Cristo Range, a subrange of the more extensive Sangre de Cristo Mountains, and is the highest peak in both ranges. It lies approximately east-northeast of the town of Alamosa. Approximately to the north-northwest is Great Sand Dunes National Park and Preserve.\n\nBlanca Peak is notable not only for its absolute height, but also for its great local relief and dominant position at the end of the range, rising high above the San Luis Valley to the west. For example, it rises nearly over the edge of the San Luis Valley in only .\nBlanca is also the third most topographically prominent peak in Colorado; it is separated from the higher peaks in the Sawatch Range by relatively low Poncha Pass at .\n\nBlanca Peak heads up three major creeks. Holbrook Creek is on the west, flowing from a basin including Crater Lake, Blue Lakes, and Como Lake. An extremely challenging four wheel drive road accesses Como Lake , and provides the most common access to Blanca Peak. Most vehicles stop at an elevation of between and on this road. The Como Lake Road is a designated Alamosa County Road and runs to the edge of the Sangre de Cristo Wilderness just short of Blue Lakes. The Como Lake Road is rated as the most challenging 4WD road in Colorado. The Huerfano River flows from the north side of Blanca Peak. A road, starting out as a two-wheel drive road, then becoming a four-wheel drive road (less challenging than the Como Lake Road), provides access to the technical climbing on the North Face of Blanca Peak. Blanca Creek drains Blanca Basin under the south slopes of the peak, and Little Ute Creek descends from the Winchell Lakes on the southeast side. However these are not used to access the peak due to private property.\n\nThree other fourteeners are nearby: Mount Lindsey to the east, Ellingwood Point to the north and Little Bear Peak to the southwest. Ellingwood Point is connected to Blanca by a short, high ridge, and is often climbed in conjunction with Blanca. Little Bear also has a high connecting ridge to Blanca, but it is a technical traverse, only recommended for highly experienced parties.\n\nThe granite that makes up the Blanca massif is pre-Cambrian in age, dated at approximately 1.8 billion years old. The major part of the Wet Mountains to the east and the Front Range to the northeast are also pre-Cambrian, also about 1.8 billion years old. In contrast, the Sangre de Cristo Range to the north and the Culebra Range to the south are Permian rock between 250 and 300 million years old.\n\nBlanca Peak is known to the Navajo people as the Sacred Mountain of the East: \"\" (or \"Tsisnaasjiní\"), the Dawn or White Shell Mountain. The mountain is considered to be the eastern boundary of the Dinetah, the traditional Navajo homeland. It is associated with the color white, and is said to be covered in daylight and dawn and fastened to the ground with lightning. It is gendered male.\n\nSummitpost notes that \"the first recorded ascent of Blanca by the Wheeler Survey was recorded on August 14, 1874, but to their surprise they found evidence of a stone structure possibly built by Ute Indians or wandering Spaniards.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43825857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43825857", "title": "C/2014 Q2 (Lovejoy)", "text": "C/2014 Q2 (Lovejoy)\n\nC/2014 Q2 (Lovejoy) is a long-period comet discovered on 17 August 2014 by Terry Lovejoy using a Schmidt–Cassegrain telescope. It was discovered at apparent magnitude 15 in the southern constellation of Puppis. It is the fifth comet discovered by Terry Lovejoy. Its blue-green glow is the result of organic molecules and water released by the comet fluorescing under the intense UV and optical light of the Sun as it passes through space.\n\nBy December 2014, the comet had brightened to roughly magnitude 7.4, making it a small telescope and binoculars target. By mid-December, the comet was visible to the naked eye for experienced observers with dark skies and keen eyesight. On 28−29 December 2014, the comet passed 1/3° from globular cluster Messier 79. In January 2015, it brightened to roughly magnitude 4, and became one of the brightest comets located high in a dark sky since comet (Hale-Bopp) in 1997. On 7 January 2015, the comet passed from Earth. It crossed the celestial equator on 9 January 2015, becoming better seen from the Northern Hemisphere. The comet came to perihelion (closest approach to the Sun) on 30 January 2015, at a distance of from the Sun. At perihelion, its water production rate exceeded 20 metric tons per second.\n\nC/2014 Q2 originated from the Oort cloud, but is not a dynamically new comet. Before entering the planetary region (epoch 1950), had an orbital period of about 11,000 years, with an aphelion about from the Sun. After leaving the planetary region (epoch 2050), it will have an orbital period of about 8,000 years, with aphelion of about 800 AU.\n\nThe comet was observed to release 21 different organic molecules in gas, including ethanol and glycolaldehyde, a simple sugar. The presence of organic molecules suggests that they are preserved materials synthesized in the outskirts of the solar nebula or at earlier stages of the Solar System formation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1846593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1846593", "title": "Cats in ancient Egypt", "text": "Cats in ancient Egypt\n\nCats in ancient Egypt were represented in social and religious practices of Ancient Egypt for more than 30 centuries. Several Ancient Egyptian deities were depicted and sculptured with cat-like heads such as Mafdet, Bastet and Sekhmet, representing justice, fertility and power.\nThe deity Mut was also depicted as a cat and in the company of a cat.\n\nCats were praised for killing poisonous snakes and protecting the Pharaoh since at least the First Dynasty of Egypt. Skeletal remains of cats were found among funerary goods dating to the 12th Dynasty. The protective function of cats is indicated in the \"Book of the Dead\", where a cat represents Ra and the benefits of the sun for life on Earth. Cat-shaped decorations used during the New Kingdom of Egypt indicate that the cat cult became more popular in daily life. Cats were depicted in association with the name of Bastet.\n\nIn the late 1880s, more than 200,000 mummified animals, most of them cats, were found in the cemetery of Beni Hasan in central Egypt.\nAmong the mummified animals excavated in Gizeh, the African wildcat (\"Felis lybica\") is the most common cat followed by the jungle cat (\"Felis chaus\").\nIn view of the huge number of cat mummies found in Egypt, the cat cult was certainly important for the country's economy, as it required breeding of cats and a trading network for the supply of food, oils and resins for embalming them.\n\nMafdet was the first known cat-headed deity in ancient Egypt. During the First Dynasty 2920–2770 BC, she was regarded as protector of the Pharaoh's chambers against snakes, scorpions and evil. She was often also depicted with a head of a leopard (\"Panthera pardus\"). She was in particular prominent during the reign of Den.\n\nThe deity Bastet is known from at least the Second Dynasty 2890 BC onwards. At the time, she was depicted with a lion (\"Panthera leo\") head. Seals and stone vessels with her name were found in the tombs of the pharaohs Khafra and Nyuserre Ini, indicating that she was regarded as protector since the mid 30th century BC during the Fourth and Fifth Dynasties.\nA wall painting in the Fifth Dynasty’s burial ground at Saqqara shows a small cat with a collar, suggesting that tamed African wildcats were kept in the pharaonic quarters by the 26th century BC.\n\nAmulets with cat heads came into fashion during the 11th Dynasty.\n\nFlinders Petrie excavated 17 cat skeletons in a tomb at the necropolis Umm El Qa'ab dating to the 12th Dynasty 1991–1783 BC. Next to the skeletons stood small pots that are thought to have contained milk for the cats.\n\nFrom the 22nd Dynasty at around the mid 950s BC onwards, the deity Bastet and her temple in the city of Bubastis became popular. She is now shown only with a small cat head.\nDuring the reign of Pharaoh Osorkon II in the 9th century BC, the temple of Bastet was enlarged by a festival hall.\nCat statues and statuettes from this period exist in diverse sizes and materials, including solid and hollow cast bronze, alabaster and faïence.\n\nBy the end of the 10th century BC, domestic cats became popular. When they died, they were embalmed, coffined and buried in cat cemeteries. The domestic cat (\"Felis catus\") was regarded as living incarnation of Bastet who protects the household against granivores, and the lion-headed deity Sekhmet was worshipped as protector of Egypt.\nMummifying animals grew in popularity during the Late Period of ancient Egypt from 664 BC onwards. Mummies were used for votive offerings to the associated deity, mostly during festivals or by pilgrims. Catacombs from the New Kingdom period in the Bubastis, Saqqara and Beni Hasan necropoli were reused as cemeteries for mummies offered to Bastet.\n\nAs described by Diodorus Siculus, killing a cat was regarded a serious crime. In the years between 60 and 56 BC, outraged people lynched a Roman for killing a cat, although pharaoh Ptolemy XII Auletes tried to intervene.\n\nCats and religion began to be disassociated from 30 AD onwards, when Egypt became a Roman province. A series of decrees and edicts issued by Roman Emperors in the 4th and 5th centuries AD gradually curtailed the practise of paganism and pagan rituals in Egypt. Pagan temples were impounded and sacrifices prohibited by 380 AD. Three edicts issued between 391 and 392 prohibited pagan rituals and burial ceremonies at all cult sites. Death penalty for offenders was introduced in 395, and destruction of pagan temples decreed in 399. By 415, the Christian church received all property that was formerly dedicated to paganism. Pagans were exiled by 423, and crosses replaced pagan symbols following a decree from 435. Egypt has since experienced a decline in the respect once held for cats; they are still kept as pets and tolerated outside the home because they catch pests. However, the cat has not lost all religious significance among modern Egypt's largely Islamic population, since cats are also revered to some extent in Muslim tradition.\n\nIn 1890, William Martin Conway wrote about excavations in Speos Artemidos near Beni Hasan: \"The plundering of the cemetery was a sight to see, but one had to stand well windward. The village children came from day to day and provided themselves with the most attractive mummies they could find. These they took down the river bank to sell for the smallest coin to passing travelers. The path became strewn with mummy cloth and bits of cats' skulls and bones and fur in horrid positions, and the wind blew the fragments about and carried the stink afar.\"\nIn 1890, a shipment of thousands of animal mummies reached Liverpool. Most of them were cat mummies. A large part was sold as fertiliser, a small part was purchased by the zoological museum of the city's university college.\n\nIn 1907, the British Museum received a collection of 192 mummified cats and 11 small carnivores excavated at Gizeh. The mummies probably date to between 600 and 200 BC. Two of these cat mummies were radiographed in 1980. The analysis revealed that they were deliberately strangulated before they reached the age of two years. They were probably used to supply the demand for mummified cats as votive offerings.\n\nExcavations in the Bubasteum area at Saqqara during the 1990s yielded 184 cat mummies, 11 packets with a few cat bones and 84 packets containing mud, clay and pebbles. Radiographic examination showed that mostly young cats were mummified; most cats died of skull fractures and had dislocated spinal bones, indicating that they were beaten to death. In this site, the tomb of Tutankhamun's wet nurse Maia was discovered in 1996, which contained cat mummies next to human mummies. In 2001, the skeleton of a male lion was found in this tomb that also showed signs of mummification. It was about nine years old, probably lived in captivity for many years and showed signs of malnutrition. It had probably lived and died in the Ptolemaic period.\nMummified remains of 335 domestic and 29 jungle cats were excavated in the catacombs of Anubis at Saqqara during works started in 2009.\n\nIn the 2nd century, Polyaenus accounted of a stratagem allegedly deployed by the Persian king Cambyses II during the Battle of Pelusium (525 BC): Cambyses II ordered placing of cats and other animals venerated by Egyptians before the Persian front lines. Egyptians purportedly stopped their defending operations, and the Persians then conquered Pelusium.\n\n"}
{"id": "22877948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22877948", "title": "Centre for Research on Energy Security", "text": "Centre for Research on Energy Security\n\nThe Centre for Research on Energy Security (CeRES) is an Indian research center housed at The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) focusing on Indian relations to energy and consequences on itself and the world, diplomatically, economically and socially. The center was created on 31 May 2005. The CeRES team is based in the India Habitat Centre office of TERI in New Delhi, India.\n\nCeRES conducts research and provides analysis, information, and directions on issues related to energy security in India. It tracks global energy demands, supply, prices, and technological research/breakthroughs, and analyses their implications for world and India's energy security.\nThe center also engages in national, regional, and international dialogues on energy security issues, leading to new strategic partnerships with international entities, taking initiatives that would be in India's and the region's long-term interest.\n\nCeRES' core research areas are: \n\nProjects undertaken by CeRES are sponsored by various multilateral institutions, government agencies and private entities. Projects include:\n\n\n\nCeRES conducts several events on themes surrounding energy security. Past events include: \n"}
{"id": "16220091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16220091", "title": "Cruise ship pollution in the United States", "text": "Cruise ship pollution in the United States\n\nThe cruise ship industry is a significant and growing contributor to the United States economy, providing more than $32 billion in benefits annually and generating more than 330,000 U.S. jobs, but also making the environmental impacts of its activities an issue to many. Although cruise ships represent a small fraction of the entire shipping industry worldwide, public attention to their environmental impacts comes in part from the fact that cruise ships are highly visible and in part because of the industry’s desire to promote a positive image.\n\nCruise ships carrying several thousand passengers and crew have been compared to “floating cities,” and the volume of wastes that they produce is comparably large, consisting of sewage; wastewater from sinks, showers, and galleys (graywater); hazardous wastes; solid waste; oily bilge water; ballast water; and air pollution. The waste streams generated by cruise ships are governed by a number of international protocols (especially MARPOL) and U.S. domestic laws (including the Clean Water Act and the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships), regulations, and standards, but there is no single law or rule. Some cruise ship waste streams appear to be well regulated, such as solid wastes (garbage and plastics) and bilge water. But there is overlap of some areas, and there are gaps in others.\n\nIn 2000, the U.S. Congress enacted legislation restricting cruise ship discharges in U.S. navigable waters within the state of Alaska. California, and Maine have enacted state-specific laws concerning cruise ship pollution, and a few other states have entered into voluntary agreements with industry to address management of cruise ship discharges. Meanwhile, the cruise industry has voluntarily undertaken initiatives to improve pollution prevention, by adopting waste management guidelines and procedures and researching new technologies. Concerns about cruise ship pollution raise issues for Congress in three broad areas: adequacy of laws and regulations, research needs, and oversight and enforcement of existing requirements. Legislation to regulate cruise ship discharges of sewage, graywater, and bilge water nationally was introduced in the 109th Congress, but there was no further congressional action.\n\nThis article describes the several types of waste streams that cruise ships may discharge and emit. It identifies the complex body of international and domestic laws that address pollution from cruise ships. It then describes federal and state legislative activity concerning cruise ships in Alaskan waters and activities in a few other states, as well as current industry initiatives to manage cruise ship pollution.\n\nMore than 46,000 commercial vessels — tankers, bulk carriers, container ships, barges, and passenger ships — travel the oceans and other waters of the world, carrying cargo and passengers for commerce, transport, and recreation. Their activities are regulated and scrutinized in a number of respects by international protocols and U.S. domestic laws, including those designed to protect against discharges of pollutants that could harm marine resources, other parts of the ambient environment, and human health. However, there are overlaps of some requirements, gaps in other areas, geographic differences in jurisdiction based on differing definitions, and questions about the adequacy of enforcement.\n\nPublic attention to the environmental impacts of the maritime industry has been especially focused on the cruise industry, in part because its ships are highly visible and in part because of the industry’s desire to promote a positive image. It represents a relatively small fraction of the entire shipping industry worldwide. As of January 2008, passenger ships (which include cruise ships and ferries) composed about 12% of the world shipping fleet. The cruise industry is a significant and growing contributor to the U.S. economy, providing more than $32 billion in total benefits annually and generating more than 330,000 U.S. jobs, but also making the environmental impacts of its activities an issue to many. Since 1980, the average annual growth rate in the number of cruise passengers worldwide has been 8.4%, and in 2005, cruises hosted an estimated 11.5 million passengers. Cruises are especially popular in the United States. In 2005, U.S. ports handled 8.6 million cruise embarcations (75% of global passengers), 6.3% more than in 2004. The worldwide cruise ship fleet consists of more than 230 ships, and the majority are foreign-flagged, with Liberia and Panama being the most popular flag countries. Foreign-flag cruise vessels owned by six companies account for nearly 95% of passenger ships operating in U.S. waters. Each year, the industry adds new ships to the total fleet, vessels that are bigger, more elaborate and luxurious, and that carry larger numbers of passengers and crew. Over the past two decades, the average ship size has been increasing at the rate of roughly every five years. The average ship entering the market from 2008 to 2011 will be more than long and will weigh more than 130,000 tons.\n\nTo the cruise ship industry, a key issue is demonstrating to the public that cruising is safe and healthy for passengers and the tourist communities that are visited by their ships. Cruise ships carrying several thousand passengers and crew have been compared to “floating cities,” in part because the volume of wastes produced and requiring disposal is greater than that of many small cities on land. During a typical one-week voyage, a large cruise ship (with 3,000 passengers and crew) is estimated to generate of sewage; of graywater (wastewater from sinks, showers, and laundries); more than of hazardous wastes; 8 tons of solid waste; and of oily bilge water. Passengers can,singlehandedl, produce up to 7.7 pounds of waste in a single day aboard a cruise ship. Those wastes, if not properly treated and disposed of, can pose risks to human health, welfare, and the environment. Environmental advocates have raised concerns about the adequacy of existing laws for managing these wastes, and suggest that enforcement of existing laws is weak.\n\nA 2000 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report focused attention on problems of cruise vessel compliance with environmental requirements. GAO found that between 1993 and 1998, foreign-flag cruise ships were involved in 87 confirmed illegal discharge cases in U.S. waters. A few of the cases included multiple illegal discharge incidents occurring over the six-year period. GAO reviewed three major waste streams (solids, hazardous chemicals, and oily bilge water) and concluded that 83% of the cases involved discharges of oil or oil-based products, the volumes of which ranged from a few drops to hundreds of gallons. The balance of the cases involved discharges of plastic or garbage. GAO judged that 72% of the illegal discharges were accidental, 15% were intentional, and 13% could not be determined. The 87 cruise ship cases represented 4% of the 2,400 illegal discharge cases by foreign-flag ships (including tankers, cargo ships and other commercial vessels, as well as cruise ships) confirmed during the six years studied by GAO. Although cruise ships operating in U.S. waters have been involved in a relatively small number of pollution cases, GAO said, several have been widely publicized and have led to criminal prosecutions and multimillion-dollar fines.\n\nIn 2000, a coalition of 53 environmental advocacy groups petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to take regulatory action to address pollution by cruise ships. The petition called for an investigation of wastewater, oil, and solid waste discharges from cruise ships. In response, EPA agreed to study cruise ship discharges and waste management approaches. As part of that effort, EPA issued a background document in 2000 with preliminary information and recommendations for further assessment through data collection and public information hearings. The agency released its final \"Cruise Ship Discharge Assessment Report\" in 2009. The report summarized findings of recent data collection activities, especially from cruise ships operating in Alaskan waters.\n\nConcurrently, litigation regarding the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program led to a 2008 decision by the Ninth Circuit Court, ruling that EPA could not exclude vessel discharges from NPDES requirements. Subsequently EPA issued an initial \"Vessel General Permit\" (VGP) with an effective date of February 6, 2009.\n\nCruise ships generate a number of waste streams that can result in discharges to the marine environment, including sewage, graywater, hazardous wastes, oily bilge water, ballast water, and solid waste. They also emit air pollutants to the air and water. These wastes, if not properly treated and disposed of, can be a significant source of pathogens, nutrients, and toxic substances with the potential to threaten human health and damage aquatic life. Cruise ships represent a small — although highly visible — portion of the entire international shipping industry, and the waste streams described here are not unique to cruise ships. However, particular types of wastes, such as sewage, graywater, and solid waste, may be of greater concern for cruise ships relative to other seagoing vessels, because of the large numbers of passengers and crew that cruise ships carry and the large volumes of wastes that they produce. Further, because cruise ships tend to concentrate their activities in specific coastal areas and visit the same ports repeatedly (especially Florida, California, New York City, Galveston, Seattle, and the waters of Alaska), their cumulative impact on a local scale could be significant, as can impacts of individual large-volume releases (either accidental or intentional).\n\nMARPOL 73/78 is one of the most important treaties regulating pollution from ships. Six Annexes of the Convention cover the various sources of pollution from ships and provide an overarching framework for international objectives. In the U.S., the Convention is implemented through the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships. Under the provisions of the Convention, the United States can take direct enforcement action under U.S. laws against foreign-flagged ships when pollution discharge incidents occur within U.S. jurisdiction. When incidents occur outside U.S. jurisdiction or jurisdiction cannot be determined, the United States refers cases to flag states, in accordance with MARPOL. These procedures require substantial coordination between the Coast Guard, the State Department, and other flag states, and the response rate from flag states has been poor.\n\nIn the United States, several federal agencies have some jurisdiction over cruise ships in U.S. waters, but no one agency is responsible for or coordinates all of the relevant government functions. The U.S. Coast Guard and EPA have principal regulatory and standard-setting responsibilities.\n\nCruise ships that are in length or greater, are subject to the requirements of the EPA \"Vessel General Permit\" (VGP). The most recent VGP was published in 2013. EPA issued a separate permit for smaller cruise ships, however this permit currently only applies to ballast water. A Congressionally-imposed moratorium applied to other wastestreams for these vessels until January 19, 2018.\n\nThe Department of Justice prosecutes violations of federal laws. In addition, the Department of State represents the United States at meetings of the IMO and in international treaty negotiations and is responsible for pursuing foreign-flag violations. Other federal agencies have limited roles and responsibilities. For example, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA, Department of Commerce) works with the Coast Guard and EPA to report on the effects of marine debris. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is responsible for ensuring quarantine inspection and disposal of food-contaminated garbage (these APHIS responsibilities are part of the Department of Homeland Security). In some cases, states and localities have responsibilities as well.\n\nCommercial vessels are required to obtain NPDES permits pursuant to Section 402 of the Clean Water Act. Section 312 of the Act prohibits the dumping of untreated or inadequately treated sewage from vessels into the navigable waters of the United States (defined in the act as within of shore). Cruise ships are subject to this prohibition. Commercial and recreational vessels with installed toilets are required to have marine sanitation devices, which are designed to prevent the discharge of untreated sewage. Beyond , raw sewage can be discharged. On some cruise ships, especially many of those that travel in Alaskan waters, sewage is treated using Advanced Wastewater Treatment (AWT) systems that generally provide improved screening, treatment, disinfection, and sludge processing as compared with traditional MSDs. AWTs are believed to be very effective in removing pathogens, oxygen-demanding substances, suspended solids, oil and grease, and particulate metals from sewage, but only moderately effective in removing dissolved metals and nutrients (ammonia, nitrogen and phosphorus).\n\nStates may also establish no-discharge zones (NDZs) for vessel sewage, under section 312. A state may completely prohibit the discharge of both treated and untreated sewage from all vessels with installed toilets into some or all waters over which it has jurisdiction (up to from land). As of 2017, this designation has been used for 72 areas representing part or all of the waters of 26 states, including a number of inland states.\n\nGraywater discharges from large cruise ships are regulated by the 2013 VGP. Under a Congressional moratorium, graywater discharges from small cruise ships were exempt from the EPA Small Vessel General Permit (\"sVGP\") until January 19, 2018.\n\nPursuant to a state law in Alaska, greywater must be treated prior to discharge into that state’s waters.\n\nCruise ship discharges of solid waste are governed by two laws. Title I of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act makes it illegal to transport garbage from the United States for the purpose of dumping it into ocean waters without a permit or to dump material from outside the U.S. into U.S. waters. Beyond U.S. waters, no MPRSA permit is required for a cruise ship to discharge solid waste. The routine discharge of effluent incidental to the propulsion of vessels is explicitly exempted from the definition of dumping in the MPRSA.28\n\nThe Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships prohibits the discharge of all garbage within of shore, certain types of garbage within offshore, and plastic anywhere. It applies to all vessels operating in U.S. navigable waters and the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).\n\nThe Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) is the primary federal law that governs hazardous waste management. The owner or operator of a cruise ship may be a generator and/or a transporter of hazardous waste, and thus subject to RCRA rules. Issues that the cruise ship industry may face relating to RCRA include ensuring that hazardous waste is identified at the point at which it is considered generated; ensuring that parties are properly identified as generators, storers, treaters, or disposers; and determining the applicability of RCRA requirements to each. Hazardous waste generated onboard cruise ships are stored onboard until the wastes can be offloaded for recycling or disposal in accordance with RCRA.\n\nA range of activities on board cruise ships generate hazardous wastes and toxic substances that would ordinarily be presumed to be subject to RCRA. Cruise ships are potentially subject to RCRA requirements to the extent that chemicals used for operations such as ship maintenance and passenger services result in the generation of hazardous wastes. However, it is not entirely clear what regulations apply to the management and disposal of these wastes. RCRA rules that cover small-quantity generators (those that generate more than 100 kilograms but less than 1,000 kilograms of hazardous waste per month) are less stringent than those for large-quantity generators (generating more than 1,000 kilograms per month), and it is unclear whether cruise ships are classified as large or small generators of hazardous waste. Moreover, some cruise companies argue that they generate less than 100 kilograms per month and therefore should be classified in a third category, as “conditionally exempt small-quantity generators,” a categorization that allows for less rigorous requirements for notification, recordkeeping, and the like.\n\nIn addition to RCRA, hazardous waste discharges from cruise ships are subject to Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, which prohibits the discharge of hazardous substances in harmful quantities into or upon the navigable waters of the United States, adjoining shorelines, or into or upon the waters of the contiguous zone.\n\nSection 311 of the Clean Water Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, applies to cruise ships and prohibits discharge of oil or hazardous substances in harmful quantities into or upon U.S. navigable waters, or into or upon the waters of the contiguous zone, or which may affect natural resources in the U.S. EEZ (extending offshore). Coast Guard regulations prohibit discharge of oil within from shore, unless passed through a 15-ppm oil water separator, and unless the discharge does not cause a visible sheen. Beyond , oil or oily mixtures can be discharged while a vessel is proceeding en route and if the oil content without dilution is less than 100 ppm. Vessels are required to maintain an Oil Record Book to record disposal of oily residues and discharges overboard or disposal of bilge water.\n\nIn addition to Section 311 requirements, the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (APPS) implements MARPOL Annex I concerning oil pollution. APPS applies to all U.S. flagged ships anywhere in the world and to all foreign flagged vessels operating in the navigable waters of the United States, or while at a port under U.S. jurisdiction. To implement APPS, the Coast Guard has promulgated regulations prohibiting the discharge of oil or oily mixtures into the sea within of the nearest land, except under limited conditions. However, because most cruise lines are foreign registered and because APPS only applies to foreign ships within U.S. navigable waters, the APPS regulations have limited applicability to cruise ship operations. In addition, most cruise lines have adopted policies that restrict discharges of machinery space waste within three miles (5 km) from shore.\n\nAfter the intervention of the GAO, or Government Accountability Office, from 2003 to 2008, twelve cruise ship companies who violated pollution regulations implemented new environmental strategies. Several cruise lines within this group and others who have not been found guilty of previous violations have sought to ameliorate their pollution of marine waters. Some of these have reduced their waste production by transferring over from single use plastic packaging to reusable plastic containers for food being prepared on board and cutlery being used on the pool decks. Princess Cruises as well as the Royal Caribbean Cruise Line are two cruise lines that have acknowledged the waste problem, and have adopted reusable items to work towards a resolution.Recycling programs have also been implemented, and, because of the use of compactors on ships, plastics and aluminums are condensed and made easily recyclable upon ships return to port. The United States,alone,gains upward of 18,000 pounds of recycled goods from these practices. Some cruise lines have also taken it upon themselves to reduce air pollution, by using alternative, cleaner energy sources which has positive implications for marine waters as well. Battery power, fuel cells, and liquified natural gas are two such sources that are being explored. Carnival Corporation is one example of a cruise liner that is currently pursuing cleaner energies. The company has agreed to partner with Shell and utilize liquefied natural gas, LNG, to power their next two ships. Liquefied natural gas, although still a fossil fuel, is a much cleaner source of energy than oil and also much less expensive to the benefit of cruise companies. Transitioning away from oil will help cruise liners combat their problems with bilge pollution. Cruise ships efforts to reduce their waste, recycle, and find more renewable energies will help alleviate their current rate of pollution of marine waters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79423", "title": "Deucalion", "text": "Deucalion\n\nIn Greek mythology, Deucalion (; ) was the son of Prometheus; ancient sources name his mother as Clymene, Hesione, or Pronoia. He is closely connected with the flood myth in Greek mythology.\n\nAccording to folk etymology, Deucalion's name comes from δεῦκος, \"deukos\", a variant of γλεῦκος, \"gleucos\", i.e. \"sweet new wine, must, sweetness\" and from ἁλιεύς, \"haliéus\", i.e. \"sailor, seaman, fisher\". His wife Pyrrha's name derives from the adjective πυρρός, -ά, -όν, \"pyrrhós, -á, -ón\", i.e. \"flame-colored, orange\".\n\nOf Deucalion's birth, the \"Argonautica\" (from the 3rd century BC) states:\n\nDeucalion and Pyrrha had at least two children, Hellen and Protogenea, and possibly a third, Amphictyon (who is autochthonous in other traditions).\n\nTheir children as apparently named in one of the oldest texts, \"Catalogue of Women\", include daughters Pandora and Thyia, and at least one son, Hellen. Their descendants were said to have dwelt in Thessaly. One corrupt fragment might make Deucalion the son of Prometheus and Pronoea.\n\nThe flood in the time of Deucalion was caused by the anger of Zeus, ignited by the hubris of the Pelasgians. So Zeus decided to put an end to the Bronze Age. According to this story, Lycaon, the king of Arcadia, had sacrificed a boy to Zeus, who was appalled by this savage offering. Zeus unleashed a deluge, so that the rivers ran in torrents and the sea flooded the coastal plain, engulfed the foothills with spray, and washed everything clean. Deucalion, with the aid of his father Prometheus, was saved from this deluge by building a chest. Like the Biblical Noah and the Mesopotamian counterpart Utnapishtim, he uses his device to survive the deluge with his wife, Pyrrha.\n\nThe fullest accounts are provided in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" (8 AD) and in the \"Library\" of Pseudo-Apollodorus. Deucalion, who reigned over the region of Phthia, had been forewarned of the flood by his father, Prometheus. Deucalion was to build a chest and provision it carefully (no animals are rescued in this version of the Flood myth), so that when the waters receded after nine days, he and his wife Pyrrha, daughter of Epimetheus, were the one surviving pair of humans. Their chest touched solid ground on Mount Parnassus, or Mount Etna in Sicily, or Mount Athos in Chalkidiki, or Mount Othrys in Thessaly.\n\nHyginus mentions the opinion of a Hegesianax that Deucalion is to be identified with Aquarius, \"because during his reign such quantities of water poured from the sky that the great Flood resulted.\"\n\nOnce the deluge was over and the couple had given thanks to Zeus, Deucalion (said in several of the sources to have been aged 82 at the time) consulted an oracle of Themis about how to repopulate the earth. He was told to \"cover your head and throw the bones of your mother behind your shoulder\". Deucalion and Pyrrha understood that \"mother\" is Gaia, the mother of all living things, and the \"bones\" to be rocks. They threw the rocks behind their shoulders and the stones formed people. Pyrrha's became women; Deucalion's became men.\n\nThe 2nd-century writer Lucian gave an account of the Greek Deucalion in \"De Dea Syria\" that seems to refer more to the Near Eastern flood legends: in his version, Deucalion (whom he also calls \"Sisythus\") took his children, their wives, and pairs of animals with him on the ark, and later built a great temple in Manbij (northern Syria), on the site of the chasm that received all the waters; he further describes how pilgrims brought vessels of sea water to this place twice a year, from as far as Arabia and Mesopotamia, to commemorate this event.\n\nOn the other hand, Dionysius of Halicarnassus stated his parents to be Prometheus and Clymene, daughter of Oceanus and mentions nothing about a flood, but instead names him as commander of those from Parnassus who drove the \"sixth generation\" of Pelasgians from Thessaly.\n\nOne of the earliest Greek historians, Hecataeus of Miletus, was said to have written a book about Deucalion, but it no longer survives. The only extant fragment of his to mention Deucalion does not mention the flood either, but names him as the father of Orestheus, king of Aetolia. The much later geographer Pausanias, following on this tradition, names Deucalion as a king of Ozolian Locris and father of Orestheus.\n\nPlutarch mentions a legend that Deucalion and Pyrrha had settled in Dodona, Epirus; while Strabo asserts that they lived at Cynus, and that her grave is still to be found there, while his may be seen at Athens; he also mentions a pair of Aegean islands named after the couple.\n\nThe 19th century classicist John Lemprière, in \"Bibliotheca Classica\", argued that as the story had been re-told in later versions, it accumulated details from the stories of Noah and Moses: \"Thus Apollodorus gives Deucalion a great chest as a means of safety; Plutarch speaks of the pigeons by which he sought to find out whether the waters had retired; and Lucian of the animals of every kind which he had taken with him. &c.\"\n\nFor some time during the Middle Ages, many European Christian scholars continued to accept Greek mythical history at face value, thus asserting that Deucalion's flood was a regional flood, that occurred a few centuries later than the global one survived by Noah's family. On the basis of the archaeological \"stele\" known as the Parian Chronicle, Deucalion's Flood was usually fixed as occurring sometime around c. 1528 BC. Deucalion's flood may be dated in the chronology of Saint Jerome to 1460 BC. According to Augustine of Hippo (\"City of God\" XVIII,8,10,&11), Deucalion and his father Prometheus were contemporaries of Moses. According to Clement of Alexandria in his Stromata, \"...in the time of Crotopus occurred the burning of Phaethon, and the deluges of Deucalion.\"\n\nThe descendants of Deucalion and Pyrrha are below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4995873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995873", "title": "Edmund Jaeger", "text": "Edmund Jaeger\n\nEdmund Carroll Jaeger, D.Sc., (January 28, 1887 – August 2, 1983) was an American biologist known for his works on desert ecology. He was born in Loup City, Nebraska to Katherine (née Gunther) and John Philip Jaeger, and moved to Riverside, California in 1906 with his family. He was the first to document, in \"The Condor\", a state of extended torpor, approaching hibernation, in a bird, the common poorwill. He also described this in the \"National Geographic Magazine\".\nJaeger first attended the newly relocated Occidental College in Eagle Rock, Los Angeles (in 1914), but moved to Palm Springs in 1915, where he taught at the one-room schoolhouse. At Palm Springs he met artist Carl Eytel, and authors J. Smeaton Chase and Charles Francis Saunders. These men formed what University of Arizona Professor Peter Wild called a \"Creative Brotherhood\" that lived in Palm Springs in the early 20th century. Other Brotherhood members included cartoonist and painter Jimmy Swinnerton, author George Wharton James, and photographers Fred Payne Clatworthy and Stephen H. Willard. The men lived near each other (like Jaeger, Eytel built his own cabin), traveled together throughout the Southwest, helped with each other's works, and exchanged photographs which appeared in their various books. He then returned to Occidental to complete his degree in 1918 and started teaching at Riverside Junior College. Retiring from teaching after 30 years, he worked the Riverside Municipal Museum in Riverside. During all these years Jaeger used his Palm Springs cabin for his research trips across the desert. Throughout his career he wrote many popular nature books and became known as the \"dean of the California deserts\".\n\n\nJaeger contributed to over 25 magazines and journals including:\n\n\n\nSome 28 patronyms of Jaeger have been made, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265023", "title": "Field emission gun", "text": "Field emission gun\n\nA field emission gun is a type of electron gun in which a sharply pointed Müller-type emitter is held at several kilovolts negative potential relative to a nearby electrode, so that there is sufficient potential gradient at the emitter surface to cause field electron emission. Emitters are either of cold-cathode type, usually made of single crystal tungsten sharpened to a tip radius of about 100 nm, or of the Schottky type, in which thermionic emission is enhanced by barrier lowering in the presence of a high electric field. Schottky emitters are made by coating a tungsten tip with a layer of zirconium oxide, which has the unusual property of increasing in electrical conductivity at high temperature. \n\nIn electron microscopes, a field emission gun is used to produce an electron beam that is smaller in diameter, more coherent and with up to three orders of magnitude greater current density or brightness than can be achieved with conventional thermionic emitters such as tungsten or lanthanum hexaboride ()-tipped filaments. The result in both scanning and transmission electron microscopy is significantly improved signal-to-noise ratio and spatial resolution, and greatly increased emitter life and reliability compared with thermionic devices. \n"}
{"id": "56608953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56608953", "title": "Floristic Quality Assessment", "text": "Floristic Quality Assessment\n\nFloristic Quality Assessment (FQA) is a tool used to assess an area's ecological integrity based on its plant species composition. Floristic Quality Assessment was originally developed in order to assess the likelihood that impacts to an area \"would be irreversible or irretrievable...enabling planners, land managers, applied ecologists, and other practitioners to make standard comparisons among various open land areas, to set conservation priorities, and to monitor site management or restoration efforts.\" The concept was developed by Gerould Wilhelm in the 1970s in a report on the natural lands of Kane County, Illinois and codified for the Chicago Region in 1979. \n\nEach plant species in a region is assigned a coefficient of conservatism, also known as a C-value, ranging between 0 and 10. A plant species with a higher score (e.g. 10) has a \"lower\" tolerance to environmental degradation such as grazing or development and therefore is naturally restricted to undisturbed, remnant habitats. Non-native plants are either assigned a C-value of 0 or are excluded from assessments. In the Chicago Region, 84% of the native plant species have a C-value of 4 or greater. Plants with a C-value of 4 or greater rarely naturally move from a remnant area to surrounding degraded land.\n\nC-values are assigned within specific ecological and geographic regions. As of February 2018, there were at least 50 different FQA databases ranging from the Gulf Coastal Plain to western Washington, though most databases represented regions in the eastern and central United States and Canada.\n\nThe mean C-value (formula_1) is calculated based on an inventory of plants. An area with a native mean C-value of 3.5 or higher likely has \"sufficient floristic quality to be of at least marginal natural area quality.\" Remnant natural areas with mean C-values of 4.0 or greater are unmitigable.\n\nThe Floristic Quality Index (FQI) is calculated by multiplying the mean C value by the square root of the total number of species:\n\nformula_2\n\n"}
{"id": "18008163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18008163", "title": "Groundwater remediation", "text": "Groundwater remediation\n\nGroundwater remediation is the process that is used to treat polluted groundwater by removing the pollutants or converting them into harmless products. Groundwater is water present below the ground surface that saturates the pore space in the subsurface. Globally, between 25 per cent and 40 per cent of the world's drinking water is drawn from boreholes and dug wells. Groundwater is also used by farmers to irrigate crops and by industries to produce everyday goods. Most groundwater is clean, but groundwater can become polluted, or contaminated as a result of human activities or as a result of natural conditions.\n\nThe many and diverse activities of humans produce innumerable waste materials and by-products. Historically, the disposal of such waste have not been subject to many regulatory controls. Consequently, waste materials have often been disposed of or stored on land surfaces where they percolate into the underlying groundwater. As a result, the contaminated groundwater is unsuitable for use.\n\nCurrent practices can still impact groundwater, such as the over application of fertilizer or pesticides, spills from industrial operations, infiltration from urban runoff, and leaking from landfills. Using contaminated groundwater causes hazards to public health through poisoning or the spread of disease, and the practice of groundwater remediation has been developed to address these issues. Contaminants found in groundwater cover a broad range of physical, inorganic chemical, organic chemical, bacteriological, and radioactive parameters. Pollutants and contaminants can be removed from groundwater by applying various techniques, thereby bringing the water to a standard that is commensurate with various intended uses.\n\nGround water remediation techniques span biological, chemical, and physical treatment technologies. Most ground water treatment techniques utilize a combination of technologies. Some of the biological treatment techniques include bioaugmentation, bioventing, biosparging, bioslurping, and phytoremediation. Some chemical treatment techniques include ozone and oxygen gas injection, chemical precipitation, membrane separation, ion exchange, carbon absorption, aqueous chemical oxidation, and surfactant enhanced recovery. Some chemical techniques may be implemented using nanomaterials. Physical treatment techniques include, but are not limited to, pump and treat, air sparging, and dual phase extraction.\n\nIf a treatability study shows no degradation (or an extended lab period before significant degradation is achieved) in contamination contained in the groundwater, then inoculation with strains known to be capable of degrading the contaminants may be helpful. This process increases the reactive enzyme concentration within the bioremediation system and subsequently may increase contaminant degradation rates over the nonaugmented rates, at least initially after inoculation.\n\nBioventing is an in situ remediation technology that uses microorganisms to biodegrade organic constituents in the groundwater system. Bioventing enhances the activity of indigenous bacteria and archaea and stimulates the natural in situ biodegradation of hydrocarbons by inducing air or oxygen flow into the unsaturated zone and, if necessary, by adding nutrients. During bioventing, oxygen may be supplied through direct air injection into residual contamination in soil. Bioventing primarily assists in the degradation of adsorbed fuel residuals, but also assists in the degradation of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) as vapors move slowly through biologically active soil.\n\nBiosparging is an in situ remediation technology that uses indigenous microorganisms to biodegrade organic constituents in the saturated zone. In biosparging, air (or oxygen) and nutrients (if needed) are injected into the saturated zone to increase the biological activity of the indigenous microorganisms. Biosparging can be used to reduce concentrations of petroleum constituents that are dissolved in groundwater, adsorbed to soil below the water table, and within the capillary fringe.\n\nBioslurping combines elements of bioventing and vacuum-enhanced pumping of free-product that is lighter than water (light non-aqueous phase liquid or LNAPL) to recover free-product from the groundwater and soil, and to bioremediate soils. The bioslurper system uses a “slurp” tube that extends into the free-product layer. Much like a straw in a glass draws liquid, the pump draws liquid (including free-product) and soil gas up the tube in the same process stream. Pumping lifts LNAPLs, such as oil, off the top of the water table and from the capillary fringe (i.e., an area just above the saturated zone, where water is held in place by capillary forces). The LNAPL is brought to the surface, where it is separated from water and air. The biological processes in the term “bioslurping” refer to aerobic biological degradation of the hydrocarbons when air is introduced into the unsaturated zone contaminated soil.\n\nIn the phytoremediation process are planted, whose roots absorb contaminants from ground water over time. This process can be carried out in areas where the roots can tap the ground water. Few examples of plants that are used in this process are Chinese Ladder fern Pteris vittata, also known as the brake fern, is a highly efficient accumulator of arsenic. Genetically altered cottonwood trees are good absorbers of mercury and transgenic Indian mustard plants soak up selenium well.\n\nCertain types of permeable reactive barriers utilize biological organisms in order to remediate groundwater.\n\nChemical precipitation is commonly used in wastewater treatment to remove hardness and heavy metals. In general, the process involves addition of agent to an aqueous waste stream in a stirred reaction vessel, either batchwise or with steady flow. Most metals can be converted to insoluble compounds by chemical reactions between the agent and the dissolved metal ions. The insoluble compounds (precipitates) are removed by settling and/or filtering.\n\nIon exchange for ground water remediation is virtually always carried out by passing the water downward under pressure through a fixed bed of granular medium (either cation exchange media and anion exchange media) or spherical beads. Cations are displaced by certain cations from the solutions and ions are displaced by certain anions from the solution. Ion exchange media most often used for remediation are zeolites (both natural and synthetic) and synthetic resins.\n\nThe most common activated carbon used for remediation is derived from bituminous coal. Activated carbon absorbs volatile organic compounds from ground water by chemically binding them to the carbon atoms.\n\nIn this process, called In Situ Chemical Oxidation or ISCO, chemical oxidants are delivered in the subsurface to destroy (converted to water and carbon dioxide or to nontoxic substances) the organics molecules. The oxidants are introduced as either liquids or gasses. Oxidants include air or oxygen, ozone, and certain liquid chemicals such as hydrogen peroxide, permanganate and persulfate.\nOzone and oxygen gas can be generated on site from air and electricity and directly injected into soil and groundwater contamination. The process has the potential to oxidize and/or enhance naturally occurring aerobic degradation. Chemical oxidation has proven to be an effective technique for dense non-aqueous phase liquid or DNAPL when it is present.\n\nSurfactant enhanced recovery increases the mobility and solubility of the contaminants absorbed to the saturated soil matrix or present as dense non-aqueous phase liquid. Surfactant-enhanced recovery injects surfactants (surface-active agents that are primary ingredient in soap and detergent) into contaminated groundwater. A typical system uses an extraction pump to remove groundwater downstream from the injection point. The extracted groundwater is treated aboveground to separate the injected surfactants from the contaminants and groundwater. Once the surfactants have separated from the groundwater they are re-used. The surfactants used are non-toxic, food-grade, and biodegradable. Surfactant enhanced recovery is used most often when the groundwater is contaminated by dense non-aqueous phase liquids (DNAPLs). These dense compounds, such as trichloroethylene (TCE), sink in groundwater because they have a higher density than water. They then act as a continuous source for contaminant plumes that can stretch for miles within an aquifer. These compounds may biodegrade very slowly. They are commonly found in the vicinity of the original spill or leak where capillary forces have trapped them.\n\nSome permeable reactive barriers utilize chemical processes to achieve groundwater remediation.\n\nPump and treat is one of the most widely used ground water remediation technologies. In this process ground water is pumped to the surface and is coupled with either biological or chemical treatments to remove the impurities.\n\nAir sparging is the process of blowing air directly into the ground water. As the bubbles rise, the contaminants are removed from the groundwater by physical contact with the air (i.e., stripping) and are carried up into the unsaturated zone (i.e., soil). As the contaminants move into the soil, a soil vapor extraction system is usually used to remove vapors.\n\nDual-phase vacuum extraction (DPVE), also known as multi-phase extraction, is a technology that uses a high-vacuum system to remove both contaminated groundwater and soil vapor. In DPVE systems, a high-vacuum extraction well is installed with its screened section in the zone of contaminated soils and groundwater. Fluid/vapor extraction systems depress the water table and water flows faster to the extraction well. DPVE removes contaminants from above and below the water table. As the water table around the well is lowered from pumping, unsaturated soil is exposed. This area, called the capillary fringe, is often highly contaminated, as it holds undissolved chemicals, chemicals that are lighter than water, and vapors that have escaped from the dissolved groundwater below. Contaminants in the newly exposed zone can be removed by vapor extraction. Once above ground, the extracted vapors and liquid-phase organics and groundwater are separated and treated. Use of dual-phase vacuum extraction with these technologies can shorten the cleanup time at a site, because the capillary fringe is often the most contaminated area.\n\nMonitoring-wells are often drilled for the purpose of collecting ground water samples for analysis. These wells, which are usually six inches or less in diameter, can also be used to remove hydrocarbons from the contaminant plume within a groundwater aquifer by using a belt-style oil skimmer. Belt oil skimmers, which are simple in design, are commonly used to remove oil and other floating hydrocarbon contaminants from industrial water systems.\n\nA monitoring-well oil skimmer remediates various oils, ranging from light fuel oils such as petrol, light diesel or kerosene to heavy products such as No. 6 oil, creosote and coal tar. It consists of a continuously moving belt that runs on a pulley system driven by an electric motor. The belt material has a strong affinity for hydrocarbon liquids and for shedding water. The belt, which can have a vertical drop of 100+ feet, is lowered into the monitoring well past the LNAPL/water interface. As the belt moves through this interface, it picks up liquid hydrocarbon contaminant which is removed and collected at ground level as the belt passes through a wiper mechanism. To the extent that DNAPL hydrocarbons settle at the bottom of a monitoring well, and the lower pulley of the belt skimmer reaches them, these contaminants can also be removed by a monitoring-well oil skimmer.\n\nTypically, belt skimmers remove very little water with the contaminant, so simple weir-type separators can be used to collect any remaining hydrocarbon liquid, which often makes the water suitable for its return to the aquifer. Because the small electric motor uses little electricity, it can be powered from solar panels or a wind turbine, making the system self-sufficient and eliminating the cost of running electricity to a remote location.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14225", "title": "Hydrogen atom", "text": "Hydrogen atom\n\nA hydrogen atom is an atom of the chemical element hydrogen. The electrically neutral atom contains a single positively charged proton and a single negatively charged electron bound to the nucleus by the Coulomb force. Atomic hydrogen constitutes about 75% of the baryonic mass of the universe.\n\nIn everyday life on Earth, isolated hydrogen atoms (called \"atomic hydrogen\") are extremely rare. Instead, hydrogen tends to combine with other atoms in compounds, or with itself to form ordinary (diatomic) hydrogen gas, H. \"Atomic hydrogen\" and \"hydrogen atom\" in ordinary English use have overlapping, yet distinct, meanings. For example, a water molecule contains two hydrogen atoms, but does not contain atomic hydrogen (which would refer to isolated hydrogen atoms).\n\nAtomic spectroscopy shows that there is a discrete infinite set of states in which a hydrogen (or any) atom can exist, contrary to the predictions of classical physics. Attempts to develop a theoretical understanding of the states of the hydrogen atom have been important to the history of quantum mechanics, since all other atoms can be roughly understood by knowing in detail about this simplest atomic structure.\n\nThe most abundant isotope, hydrogen-1, protium, or light hydrogen, contains no neutrons and is simply a proton and an electron. Protium is stable and makes up 99.985% of naturally occurring hydrogen atoms.\n\nDeuterium contains one neutron and one proton. Deuterium is stable and makes up 0.0156% of naturally occurring hydrogen and is used in industrial processes like nuclear reactors and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance.\n\nTritium contains two neutrons and one proton and is not stable, decaying with a half-life of 12.32 years. Because of the short half life, tritium does not exist in nature except in trace amounts.\n\nHigher isotopes of hydrogen are only created in artificial accelerators and reactors and have half lives around the order of 10 seconds.\n\nThe formulas below are valid for all three isotopes of hydrogen, but slightly different values of the Rydberg constant (correction formula given below) must be used for each hydrogen isotope.\n\nHydrogen is not found without its electron in ordinary chemistry (room temperatures and pressures), as ionized hydrogen is highly chemically reactive. When ionized hydrogen is written as \"H\" as in the solvation of classical acids such as hydrochloric acid, the hydronium ion, HO, is meant, not a literal ionized single hydrogen atom. In that case, the acid transfers the proton to HO to form HO.\n\nIonized hydrogen without its electron, or free protons, are common in the interstellar medium, and solar wind.\n\nThe hydrogen atom has special significance in quantum mechanics and quantum field theory as a simple two-body problem physical system which has yielded many simple analytical solutions in closed-form.\n\nExperiments by Ernest Rutherford in 1909 showed the structure of the atom to be a dense, positive nucleus with a light, negative charge orbiting around it. This immediately caused problems on how such a system could be stable. Classical electromagnetism had shown that any accelerating charge radiates energy described through the Larmor formula. If the electron is assumed to orbit in a perfect circle and radiates energy continuously, the electron would rapidly spiral into the nucleus with a fall time of:\n\nWhere formula_2 is the Bohr radius and formula_3 is the classical electron radius. If this were true, all atoms would instantly collapse, however atoms seem to be stable. Furthermore, the spiral inward would release a smear of electromagnetic frequencies as the orbit got smaller. Instead, atoms were observed to only emit discrete frequencies of radiation. The resolution would lie in the development of quantum mechanics.\n\nIn 1913, Niels Bohr obtained the energy levels and spectral frequencies of the hydrogen atom after making a number of simple assumptions in order to correct the failed classical model. The assumptions included:\nBohr supposed that the electron's angular momentum is quantized with possible values:\n\nformula_4 where formula_5\n\nand formula_6 is Planck constant over formula_7. He also supposed that the centripetal force which keeps the electron in its orbit is provided by the Coulomb force, and that energy is conserved. Bohr derived the energy of each orbit of the hydrogen atom to be:\n\nwhere formula_9 is the electron mass, formula_10 is the electron charge, formula_11 is the vacuum permittivity, and formula_12 is the quantum number (now known as the principal quantum number). Bohr's predictions matched experiments measuring the hydrogen spectral series to the first order, giving more confidence to a theory that used quantized values.\n\nFor formula_13, the value\nis called the Rydberg unit of energy. It is related to the Rydberg constant formula_15 of atomic physics by formula_16\n\nThe exact value of the Rydberg constant assumes that the nucleus is infinitely massive with respect to the electron. For hydrogen-1, hydrogen-2 (deuterium), and hydrogen-3 (tritium) the constant must be slightly modified to use the reduced mass of the system, rather than simply the mass of the electron. However, since the nucleus is much heavier than the electron, the values are nearly the same. The Rydberg constant \"R\" for a hydrogen atom (one electron), \"R\" is given by\n\nformula_17\n\nwhere formula_18 is the mass of the atomic nucleus. For hydrogen-1, the quantity formula_19 is about 1/1836 (i.e. the electron-to-proton mass ratio). For deuterium and tritium, the ratios are about 1/3670 and 1/5497 respectively. These figures, when added to 1 in the denominator, represent very small corrections in the value of \"R\", and thus only small corrections to all energy levels in corresponding hydrogen isotopes.\n\nThere were still problems with Bohr's model: \n\nMost of these shortcomings were repaired by Arnold Sommerfeld's modification of the Bohr model. Sommerfeld introduced two additional degrees of freedom allowing an electron to move on an elliptical orbit, characterized by its eccentricity and declination with respect to a chosen axis. This introduces two additional quantum numbers, which correspond to the orbital angular momentum and its projection on the chosen axis. Thus the correct multiplicity of states (except for the factor 2 accounting for the yet unknown electron spin) was found. Further applying special relativity theory to the elliptic orbits, Sommerfeld succeeded in deriving the correct expression for the fine structure of hydrogen spectra (which happens to be exactly the same as in the most elaborate Dirac theory). However some observed phenomena such as the anomalous Zeeman effect remain unexplained. These issues were resolved with the full development of quantum mechanics and the Dirac equation. It is often alleged, that the Schrödinger equation is superior to the Bohr-Sommerfeld theory in describing hydrogen atom. This is however not the case, as the most results of both approaches coincide or are very close (a remarkable exception is the problem of hydrogen atom in crossed electric and magnetic fields, which cannot be solved in the framework of the Bohr-Sommerfeld theory self-consistently), and their main shortcomings result from the absence of the electron spin in both theories. It was the complete failure of the Bohr-Sommerfeld theory to explain many-electron systems (such as helium atom or hydrogen molecule) which demonstrated its inadequacy in describing quantum phenomena.\n\nThe Schrödinger equation allows one to calculate the development of quantum systems with time and can give exact, analytical answers for the non-relativistic hydrogen atom.\n\nThe Hamiltonian of the hydrogen atom is the radial kinetic energy operator and coulomb attraction force between the positive proton and negative electron. Using the time-independent Schrödinger equation, ignoring all spin-coupling interactions and using the reduced mass formula_22, the equation is written as:\n\nformula_23\n\nExpanding the Laplacian in spherical coordinates:\n\nformula_24\n\nThis is a separable, partial differential equation which can be solved in terms of special functions. The normalized position wavefunctions, given in spherical coordinates are:\n\nwhere:\n\nThe quantum numbers can take the following values: \n\nAdditionally, these wavefunctions are \"normalized\" (i.e., the integral of their modulus square equals 1) and orthogonal:\nwhere formula_37 is the state represented by the wavefunction formula_38 in Dirac notation, and formula_39 is the Kronecker delta function.\n\nThe wavefunctions in momentum space are related to the wavefunctions in position space through a Fourier transform\n\nwhich, for the bound states, results in \n\nwhere formula_42 denotes a Gegenbauer polynomial and formula_43 is in units of formula_44.\n\nThe solutions to the Schrödinger equation for hydrogen are analytical, giving a simple expression for the hydrogen energy levels and thus the frequencies of the hydrogen spectral lines and fully reproduced the Bohr model and went beyond it. It also yields two other quantum numbers and the shape of the electron's wave function (\"orbital\") for the various possible quantum-mechanical states, thus explaining the anisotropic character of atomic bonds.\n\nThe Schrödinger equation also applies to more complicated atoms and molecules. When there is more than one electron or nucleus the solution is not analytical and either computer calculations are necessary or simplifying assumptions must be made.\n\nSince the Schrödinger equation is only valid for non-relativistic quantum mechanics, the solutions it yields for the hydrogen atom are not entirely correct. The Dirac equation of relativistic quantum theory improves these solutions (see below).\n\nThe solution of the Schrödinger equation (wave equation) for the hydrogen atom uses the fact that the Coulomb potential produced by the nucleus is isotropic (it is radially symmetric in space and only depends on the distance to the nucleus). Although the resulting energy eigenfunctions (the \"orbitals\") are not necessarily isotropic themselves, their dependence on the angular coordinates follows completely generally from this isotropy of the underlying potential: the eigenstates of the Hamiltonian (that is, the energy eigenstates) can be chosen as simultaneous eigenstates of the angular momentum operator. This corresponds to the fact that angular momentum is conserved in the orbital motion of the electron around the nucleus. Therefore, the energy eigenstates may be classified by two angular momentum quantum numbers, \"ℓ\" and \"m\" (both are integers). The angular momentum quantum number determines the magnitude of the angular momentum. The magnetic quantum number determines the projection of the angular momentum on the (arbitrarily chosen) \"z\"-axis.\n\nIn addition to mathematical expressions for total angular momentum and angular momentum projection of wavefunctions, an expression for the radial dependence of the wave functions must be found. It is only here that the details of the 1/\"r\" Coulomb potential enter (leading to Laguerre polynomials in \"r\"). This leads to a third quantum number, the principal quantum number . The principal quantum number in hydrogen is related to the atom's total energy.\n\nNote that the maximum value of the angular momentum quantum number is limited by the principal quantum number: it can run only up to \"n\" − 1, i.e. .\n\nDue to angular momentum conservation, states of the same \"ℓ\" but different \"m\" have the same energy (this holds for all problems with rotational symmetry). In addition, for the hydrogen atom, states of the same \"n\" but different \"ℓ\" are also degenerate (i.e. they have the same energy). However, this is a specific property of hydrogen and is no longer true for more complicated atoms which have an (effective) potential differing from the form 1/\"r\" (due to the presence of the inner electrons shielding the nucleus potential).\n\nTaking into account the spin of the electron adds a last quantum number, the projection of the electron's spin angular momentum along the \"z\"-axis, which can take on two values. Therefore, any eigenstate of the electron in the hydrogen atom is described fully by four quantum numbers. According to the usual rules of quantum mechanics, the actual state of the electron may be any superposition of these states. This explains also why the choice of \"z\"-axis for the directional quantization of the angular momentum vector is immaterial: an orbital of given \"ℓ\" and \"m\"′ obtained for another preferred axis \"z\"′ can always be represented as a suitable superposition of the various states of different \"m\" (but same \"l\") that have been obtained for \"z\".\n\nIn 1928, Paul Dirac found an equation that was fully compatible with Special Relativity, and (as a consequence) made the wave function a 4-component \"Dirac spinor\" including \"up\" and \"down\" spin components, with both positive and \"negative\" energy (or matter and antimatter). The solution to this equation gave the following results, more accurate than the Schrödinger solution.\n\nThe energy levels of hydrogen, including fine structure (excluding Lamb shift and hyperfine structure), are given by the Sommerfeld fine structure expression:\n\nwhere \"α\" is the fine-structure constant and \"j\" is the \"total angular momentum\" quantum number, which is equal to |\"ℓ\" ± | depending on the direction of the electron spin. This formula represents a small correction to the energy obtained by Bohr and Schrödinger as given above. The factor in square brackets in the last expression is nearly one; the extra term arises from relativistic effects (for details, see #Features going beyond the Schrödinger solution). It is worth noting that this expression was first obtained by A. Sommerfeld in 1916 based on the relativistic version of the old Bohr theory. Sommerfeld has however used different notation for the quantum numbers.\n\nThe image to the right shows the first few hydrogen atom orbitals (energy eigenfunctions). These are cross-sections of the probability density that are color-coded (black represents zero density and white represents the highest density). The angular momentum (orbital) quantum number \"ℓ\" is denoted in each column, using the usual spectroscopic letter code (\"s\" means \"ℓ\" = 0, \"p\" means \"ℓ\" = 1, \"d\" means \"ℓ\" = 2). The main (principal) quantum number \"n\" (= 1, 2, 3, ...) is marked to the right of each row. For all pictures the magnetic quantum number \"m\" has been set to 0, and the cross-sectional plane is the \"xz\"-plane (\"z\" is the vertical axis). The probability density in three-dimensional space is obtained by rotating the one shown here around the \"z\"-axis.\n\nThe \"ground state\", i.e. the state of lowest energy, in which the electron is usually found, is the first one, the 1\"s\" state (principal quantum level \"n\" = 1, \"ℓ\" = 0).\n\nBlack lines occur in each but the first orbital: these are the nodes of the wavefunction, i.e. where the probability density is zero. (More precisely, the nodes are spherical harmonics that appear as a result of solving Schrödinger equation in polar coordinates.)\n\nThe quantum numbers determine the layout of these nodes. There are:\n\nThere are several important effects that are neglected by the Schrödinger equation and which are responsible for certain small but measurable deviations of the real spectral lines from the predicted ones:\n\n\nBoth of these features (and more) are incorporated in the relativistic Dirac equation, with predictions that come still closer to experiment. Again the Dirac equation may be solved analytically in the special case of a two-body system, such as the hydrogen atom. The resulting solution quantum states now must be classified by the total angular momentum number \"j\" (arising through the coupling between electron spin and orbital angular momentum). States of the same \"j\" and the same \"n\" are still degenerate. Thus, direct analytical solution of Dirac equation predicts 2S() and 2P() levels of Hydrogen to have exactly the same energy, which is in a contradiction with observations (Lamb-Retherford experiment).\n\n\nFor these developments, it was essential that the solution of the Dirac equation for the hydrogen atom could be worked out exactly, such that any experimentally observed deviation had to be taken seriously as a signal of failure of the theory.\n\nIn the language of Heisenberg's matrix mechanics, the hydrogen atom was first solved by Wolfgang Pauli using a rotational symmetry in four dimensions [O(4)-symmetry] generated by the angular momentum \nand the Laplace–Runge–Lenz vector. By extending the symmetry group O(4) to the dynamical group O(4,2),\nthe entire spectrum and all transitions were embedded in a single irreducible group representation.\n\nIn 1979 the (non relativistic) hydrogen atom was solved for the first time within Feynman's path integral formulation\nof quantum mechanics. This work greatly extended the range of applicability of Feynman's method.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43004829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43004829", "title": "I-Tree", "text": "I-Tree\n\ni-Tree is a collection of urban and rural forestry analysis and benefits assessment tools. It was designed and developed by the United States Forest Service to quantify and value ecosystem services provided by trees including pollution removal, carbon sequestration, avoided carbon emissions, avoided stormwater runoff, and more. i-Tree provides baseline data so that the growth of trees can be followed over time, and is used for planning purposes. Different tools within the i-Tree Suite use different types of inputs and provide different kinds of reports; some tools use a 'bottom up' approach based on tree inventories on the ground, while other tools use a 'top down' approach based on remote sensing data. i-Tree is peer-reviewed and has a process of ongoing collaboration to improve it.\n\nThere are seven different i-Tree applications which can enhance an individual's or organization's understanding of the benefits which trees provide in modern society. Over the course of many years the U.S. Forest Service has developed and refined these different applications: i-Tree Eco, i-Tree Landscape, i-Tree Hydro, i-Tree Design, i-Tree Canopy, i-Tree Species, i-Tree MyTree, i-Tree Streets, and i-Tree Vue.\n\ni-Tree began in 2002 as survey of a sample of urban forest to simulate taking a tree inventory of an entire urban forest. It then added hand held devices for efficient inventory of street trees. The current version of i-Tree includes different tools which allow for several sources of data to be used, such as National Land Cover Data, Google Maps, and tree inventories. Some tools use continuous data on air pollution and meteorology for more accurate results.\n\nResearchers using i-Tree have examined:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5865724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865724", "title": "List of Cybaeidae species", "text": "List of Cybaeidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Cybaeidae as of Dec. 24, 2016.\n\n\"Argyroneta\" \n\n\"Cedicoides\" \n\n\"Cedicus\" \n\n\"Cybaeina\" \n\n\"Cybaeota\" \n\n\"Cybaeozyga\" \n\n\"Cybaeus\" \n\n\"Paracedicus\" \n\n\"Symposia\" \n\n\"Vagellia\" \n\n"}
{"id": "8726159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8726159", "title": "List of Lactarius species", "text": "List of Lactarius species\n\nThe genus Lactarius has about 450 members worldwide. Probably the best known and most widely eaten is \"Lactarius deliciosus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3239146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239146", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on plantains", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on plantains\n\nPlantains (\"Plantago\" species) are used as food plants by the caterpillars of a number of Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths). These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19520323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19520323", "title": "List of Ultras of Greenland", "text": "List of Ultras of Greenland\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 38 ultra-prominent summits of the nation of Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat). Each of these peaks has at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nGunnbjørn Fjeld exceeds of topographic prominence. Six peaks of Greenland exceed , and the following 38 peaks are ultra-prominent summits with at least of topographic prominence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "402115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402115", "title": "List of United States electric companies", "text": "List of United States electric companies\n\nThe following page lists electric utilities in the United States.\n\nReference:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20921569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20921569", "title": "List of food origins", "text": "List of food origins\n\nSome type of foods were always common in every continent, such as many seafood and plants. Examples of these types of food are honey, ants, mussels, crabs and coconuts. Nikolai Vavilov initially identified the centers of origin for eight crop plants, subdividing them further into twelve groups in 1935.\n\nCorn, beans and squash were domesticated in Mesoamerica around 3500 BCE. Potatoes, quinoa and manioc were domesticated in South America. In what is now the eastern United States, Native Americans domesticated sunflower and sumpweed around 2500 BCE.\n\n\nCanada, Mexico, and the United States are home to a number of edible fruit; however, only three are commercially grown/known on a global scale (grapes, cranberries, and blueberries.) Many of the fruits below are still eaten locally as they have been for centuries and others are generating renewed interest by eco-friendly gardeners (less need for bug control) and chefs alike.\n\nProvisionally, this is primarily southern Coast Salish, though much is in common with Coast Salish overall.\n\nAnthropogenic grasslands were maintained. The south Coast Salish may have had more vegetables and land game than people farther north or on the outer coast. Salmon and other fish were staples in this area. There was \"kokanee\", a freshwater fish in the Lake Washington and Lake Sammamish watersheds. Shellfish were abundant. Butter clams, horse clams, and cockles were dried for trade.\n\nHunting was specialized; professions were probably sea hunters, land hunters, and fowlers. Water fowl were captured on moonless nights using strategic flares.\n\nThe managed grasslands not only provided game habitat, but vegetable sprouts, roots, bulbs, berries, and nuts were foraged from them as well as found wild. The most important were probably bracken and camas, and wapato especially for the Duwamish. Many, many varieties of berries were foraged; some were harvested with comblike devices not reportedly used elsewhere. Acorns were relished but were not widely available. Regional tribes went in autumn to the Nisqually Flats (Nisqually plains) to harvest them. Indeed, the region was so abundant that the southern Puget Sound as a whole had one of the only sedentary hunter-gatherer societies that has ever existed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Neolithic founder crops (or primary domesticates) are the eight plant species that were domesticated by early Holocene (Pre-Pottery Neolithic A and Pre-Pottery Neolithic B) farming communities in the Fertile Crescent region of southwest Asia, and which formed the basis of systematic agriculture in the Middle East, North Africa, India, Persia and (later) Europe. They consist of flax, three cereals and four pulses, and are the first known domesticated plants in the world. Although domesticated rye (\"Secale cereale\") occurs in the final Epi-Palaeolithic strata at Tell Abu Hureyra (the earliest instance of a domesticated plant species), it was insignificant in the Neolithic Period of southwest Asia and only became common with the spread of farming into northern Europe several millennia later.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere was a great deal of commerce between the provinces of the Roman Empire. All the regions of the empire became interdependent with one another; some provinces specialized in the production of grain, others in wine and others in olive oil, depending on the soil type. Columella writes in his \"Res Rustica\", \"Soil that is heavy, chalky, and wet is not unsuited to the growing for winter wheat and spelt. Barley tolerates no place except one that is loose and dry.\" Pliny the Elder writes extensively about agriculture from books XII to XIX; in fact, XVIII is \"The Natural History of Grain\". Crops grown on Roman farms included wheat, barley, millet, pea, broad bean, lentil, flax, sesame, chickpea, hemp, turnip, olives, pear, apples, figs, and plums. Others in the Mediterranean include:\n\nFruits in this category are not hardy to extreme cold, as the preceding temperate fruits are, yet tolerate some frost and may have a modest chilling requirement. Notable among these are natives of the Mediterranean:\n\nThese are some fruits native to Asia or of Asian origin.\n\nTibetan plateau\n\n\nAround 7000 BCE, sesame, brinjal, and humped cattle were domesticated in the Indus Valley. By 3000 BCE, turmeric, cardamom, black pepper and mustard were harvested in India.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe first instances of domestication of plants for agricultural purposes in Africa occurred in the Sahel region circa 5000 BCE, when sorghum and African Rice (\"Oryza glaberrima\") began to be cultivated. Around this time, and in the same region, Fonio and the small guineafowl were domesticated.\n\nAround 4000 BCE the climate of the Sahara and the Sahel started to become drier at an exceedingly fast pace. This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink significantly and caused increasing desertification. This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and helped to cause migrations of farming communities to the more humid climate of West Africa.\n\nThe most famous crop domesticated in the Ethiopian highlands is coffee. Khat, ensete, noog, teff and finger millet were also domesticated in the Ethiopian highlands. Crops domesticated in the Sahel region include sorghum and pearl millet. The kola nut, extracts from which became an ingredient in Coca-Cola, was first domesticated in West Africa. Other crops domesticated in West Africa include African rice, African yams, black-eyed peas and the oil palm.\n\n\n\nAlthough the fruits of Australia were eaten for thousands of years as bushfood by Aboriginal people, they have only been recently recognized for their culinary qualities by non-indigenous people. Many are regarded for their piquancy and spice-like qualities for use in cooking and preserves. Some Australian fruits also have exceptional nutritional qualities, including high vitamin C and other antioxidants.\n\nIn 2016, researchers linked the origins and primary regions of diversity (\"areas typically including the locations of the initial domestication of crops, encompassing the primary geographical zones of crop variation generated since that time, and containing relatively high species richness in crop wild relatives\") of food and agricultural crops with their current importance around the world in modern national food supplies and agricultural production. The results indicated that national diets and farm production around the world were generally composed of a large set of crops from many diverse origins. Foreign crops (crops whose origins do not include the same region as the country) comprised 68.7% of national food supplies as a global mean, and their usage has increased in the last fifty years.\n\n"}
{"id": "322121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322121", "title": "List of rivers of Greece", "text": "List of rivers of Greece\n\nThis is a list of rivers that are at least partially in Greece. The rivers flowing into the sea are sorted along the coast. Rivers flowing into other rivers are listed by the rivers they flow into. The confluence is given in parentheses.\n\nFor an alphabetical overview of rivers of Greece see .\n\n\nRivers in this section are sorted north (Albanian border) to south (Cape Malea).\n\nEpirus & Central Greece\n\nPeloponnese\n\nRivers in this section are sorted south (Cape Malea) to northeast (Turkish border).\n\nPeloponnese\n\nCentral Greece\n\nThessaly\n\nMacedonia\n\nThrace\n\n\n"}
{"id": "69907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69907", "title": "List of severe weather phenomena", "text": "List of severe weather phenomena\n\nSevere weather phenomena are weather conditions that are hazardous to human life and property.\nSevere weather can occur under a variety of situations, but three characteristics are generally needed: a temperature or moisture boundary, moisture, and (in the event of severe, precipitation-based events) instability in the atmosphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18233949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18233949", "title": "List of tree genera", "text": "List of tree genera\n\nThe major tree genera are listed below by taxonomic family.\n\nFor classification of flowering plants, see APG II system.\n\nAbout 210 eudicot families include trees.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAbout 10 Monocotyledon families include trees.\n\n17 magnoliid families include trees.\n\n7 families, all of them include trees.\n\n\nOnly one species.\n\n2 families include trees.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206292", "title": "Mare Serenitatis", "text": "Mare Serenitatis\n\nMare Serenitatis (\"Sea of Serenity\") is a lunar mare located to the east of Mare Imbrium on the Moon. Its diameter is long covering about 7.5% of the circumference of the Moon.\n\nMare Serenitatis is located within the Serenitatis basin, which is of the Nectarian epoch. The material surrounding the mare is of the Lower Imbrian epoch, while the mare material is of the Upper Imbrian epoch. The mare basalt covers a majority of the basin and overflows into Lacus Somniorum to the northeast. The most noticeable feature is the crater Posidonius on the northeast rim of the mare. The ring feature to the west of the mare is indistinct, except for Montes Haemus. Mare Serenitatis connects with Mare Tranquillitatis to the southeast and borders Mare Vaporum to the southwest. Mare Serenitatis is an example of a mascon, an anomalous gravitational region on the moon.\n\nA mass concentration (mascon), or gravitational high, was identified in the center of Mare Serenitatis from Doppler tracking of the five Lunar Orbiter spacecraft in 1968. The mascon was confirmed and mapped at higher resolution with later orbiters such as Lunar Prospector and GRAIL.\n\nLike most of the other maria on the Moon, Mare Serenitatis was named by Giovanni Riccioli, whose 1651 nomenclature system has become standardized. Previously, William Gilbert had included it among the Regio Magna Occidentalis (\"Large Western Region\") in his map of \"c\".1600. Pierre Gassendi had included it among the 'Homuncio' ('little man'), referring to a small humanoid figure that he could see among the maria; Gassendi also referred to it as 'Thersite' after Thersites, the ugliest warrior in the Trojan War. Michael Van Langren had labelled it the Mare Eugenianum (\"Eugenia's Sea\") in his 1645 map, in honour of Isabella Clara Eugenia, queen of the Spanish Netherlands. And Johannes Hevelius included it within Pontus Euxinus (after the classical name for the Black Sea) in his 1647 map.\nBoth Luna 21 and Apollo 17 landed near the eastern border of Mare Serenitatis, in the area of the Montes Taurus range. Apollo 17 landed specifically in the Taurus-Littrow valley, and Luna 21 landed in Le Monnier crater.\nNumerous craters in and touching the sea include Abetti, Banting, Bessel, Bobillier, Borel, Deseilligny, Finsch, Linné, Le Monnier, Luther, Sarabhai and Very and a few more. Ridges inside and touching the sea (plain) include Dorsa Aldrovandi, Dorsum Azara, Dorsum Buckland, Dorsum Von Cotta, Dorsum Gast, Dorsa Lister, Dorsum Nicol, Dorsum Owen, Dorsa Smirnov and Dorsa Sorby.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27415887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27415887", "title": "Measurement and Verification", "text": "Measurement and Verification\n\nMeasurement and Verification (M&V) is the term given to the process for quantifying savings delivered by an Energy Conservation Measure (ECM), as well as the sub-sector of the energy industry involved with this practice.\n\nMeasurement and Verification demonstrates how much energy the ECM has avoided using, rather than the total \"cost\" saved. The latter can be affected by many factors, such as energy prices. The Measurement and Verification process enables the energy savings delivered by the ECM to be isolated and fairly evaluated.\n\nVarious protocols for good practice in Measurement and Verification exist, including the International Performance Measurement and Verification Protocol (IPMVP), which defines common terminology and the key steps in implementing a robust M&V process.\n\nA key part of the M&V process is the development of an ‘M&V Plan’, which defines how the savings analysis will be conducted before the ECM is implemented. This provides a degree of objectivity that is absent if the savings are simply evaluated after implementation.\n\n2. FEMP M&V Guidelines 3.0\n3. LBNL's Measurement and Verification Portal\n"}
{"id": "23219171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23219171", "title": "Microspherulite", "text": "Microspherulite\n\nMicrospherulites are microscopic spherical particles with diameter less than two mm, usually in the 100 micrometre range, mainly consisting of mineral material (the Greek \"litos\" means \"stone\"). Only bodies created by natural physico-chemical processes, with no contribution of either biological (in aqueous sedimentary environments this contribution is possible) or human activity, are considered to be microspherulites.\nGenerally speaking, the common feature (sphericity) indicates that each sphere represents an internal equilibrium of forces within a fluid medium (water, air).\n\nSeveral types of these forms are found in nature. Depending on the formational environment, microspherulites can be classed as oolites, micrometeorites, impact spherulites, iberulites, pisolites, aerolites, chondrules, biolites, pellets, bubbles, or carbonaceous microspherules.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10550813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10550813", "title": "Ministry of Earth Sciences", "text": "Ministry of Earth Sciences\n\nThe Ministry of Earth Sciences was formed in the year 2006 from a merger of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting (NCMRWF), the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, and Earth Risk Evaluation Centre (EREC), and the Ministry of Ocean Development.\n\nCurrently, the ministry is headed by Dr. Harsh Vardhan.\n\nThe Ministry’s mandate is to look after Atmospheric Sciences, Ocean Science & Technology and Seismology in an integrated manner.\n\n\n\nAll institutions under ESSO are connected through National Knowledge Network (NKN) and its Common User Group (CUG).\n\nAdithya HPC located at IITM, Pune is one of the largest computation facility in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1879284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1879284", "title": "National Geomagnetism Program", "text": "National Geomagnetism Program\n\nThe National Geomagnetism Program is a program directed by the USGS that monitors the Earth's magnetic field.\n\n"}
{"id": "1598563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1598563", "title": "New Caledonia rain forests", "text": "New Caledonia rain forests\n\nThe New Caledonia rain forests are a terrestrial ecoregion, located in New Caledonia in the South Pacific. It is a tropical moist broadleaf forest ecoregion, part of the Australasia ecozone.\n\nThe ecoregion covers the windward eastern side of Grand Terre, New Caledonia's mountainous main island, as well as the smaller Loyalty Islands to the east and the Isle of Pines to the south of Grand Terre. The ecoregion covers an area of .\n\nGrand Terre is a long island that runs approximately north-south, with a mountain range down the center with five peaks that exceed 1500 meters elevation. The Loyalty Islands and Ile des Pins are much lower.\nNew Caledonia lies astride the Tropic of Capricorn, between 19° and 23° south latitude, 1,200 km east of Australia and 1,500 km northeast of New Zealand.\n\nThe climate of the islands is tropical, and rainfall is highly seasonal, brought by trade winds that usually come from the east. Rainfall averages about 1,500 mm yearly on the Loyalty Islands, 2,000 mm at low elevations on eastern Grand Terre, and 2,000-4,000 mm at high elevations on Grand Terre. The western slopes of Grand Terre, which are in the rain shadow of the central mountain range, are much drier, and are home to the New Caledonia dry forests ecoregion.\n\nNew Caledonia is an ancient fragment of Gondwana, the southern supercontinent. It separated from Australia 85 million years ago, and remained attached to New Zealand until 55 million years ago. It has been islolated from other land masses since then, although a number of plants and animals have been able to cross the straits separating New Caledonia from neighboring islands.\n\nThe forests are made up of laurel-leaved evergreen hardwood trees, reaching up to 40 m in height. Many of the species are endemic to the islands, and harbour and rich biota of understorey plants, invertebrates, and birds and bats.\n\nNew Caledonia’s fauna and flora derive from ancestral species isolated in the region when it broke away from Gondwana many tens of millions of years ago. Not only endemic species have evolved here, but entire genera and even families are unique to the islands.\n\nMore tropical Gymnosperm species are endemic to New Caledonia than to any similar region on Earth. Of the 44 indigenous species of gymnosperms, 43 are endemic, including the only known parasitic Gymnosperm (\"Parasitaxus usta\"). Again, of the 35 known species of \"Araucaria\", 13 are endemic to New Caledonia.\n\nThe world's largest extant species of fern, \"Cyathea intermedia\", also is endemic to New Caledonia. It is very common on acid ground, and grows about one metre per year on the east coast, usually on fallow ground or in forest clearings. There also are other species of \"Cyathea\", notably Cyathea novae-caledoniae.\n\nThe islands soils derived largely from ultramafic rocks, and have been a refuge for many native flora species that have adapted to their composition a long time ago; such flora can survive on acid soils with unfavourable compositions of nutrient elements. On New Caledonia examples of such soils commonly have an excess of magnesium, plus unusually high concentrations of phytotoxic compounds of heavy metals such as nickel. Not many invader species can compete successfully with plants adapted to such challenging soils.\n\nNew Caledonia also is one of five regions on the planet where species of \"Nothofagus\" are indigenous; five species are known to occur here.\n\n\"Cloud forest\" formerly covered much of the tropical mountain and coastal areas of the world.\nThe laurel forests are found in the islands of the Oceans, some tropical mountains and locally on favourable wet climate microenvironments of the coast and coastal mountains of the mainland, but the forests have been much reduced in extent by logging, clearance for agriculture and grazing, and the invasion of exotic species.\nThe decline of much of the endemic fauna and flora is largely due to deforestation to accommodate agricultural expansion. This is accompanied by displacement of native flora by invasive alien weeds and crop plants. The most famous \"laurisilva\" forests remain on Madeira, where they are found between 300 m and 1400 m altitude on the northern slope, and 700 m to 1600 m on the southern slope, and cover 149,5 km.\n\nThe laurifolia appears in mountains of the coastal strip of New South Wales in Australia, New Guinea, New Caledonia, Tasmania, and New Zealand. The laurel forests of Australia, Tasmania, and New Zealand are home to species related to those in South Africa, Macaronesia, Madagascar, South Japan, Jeju island in Korea, Taiwan, South China coast, North America coasts to Panama and the Valdivian laurel forests, including southern beech (\"Nothofagus\") through the connection of the Antarctic flora. Other typical flora include Winteraceae, Myrtaceae, southern sassafras (Atherospermataceae), conifers of Araucariaceae, Podocarpaceae, and Cupressaceae, and tree ferns.\n\nNew Caledonia was an ancient fragment of the supercontinent Gondwana. Unlike many of the Pacific Islands, which are of relatively recent volcanic origin, New Caledonia is part of Zealandia, a fragment of the ancient Gondwana super-continent. Zealandia separated from Australia 60–85 million years ago, and the ridge linking New Caledonia to New Zealand has been deeply submerged for millions of years. This isolated New Caledonia from the rest of the world's landmasses, preserving a snapshot of Gondwanan forests. New Caledonia and New Zealand are separated by continental drift of Australia 85 million years ago. The islands still shelters an extraordinary diversity of endemic plants and animals of Gondwanan origin have spread to the southern continents later.\n\nThe laurel forest of Australia, New Caledonia (\"Adenodaphne\"), and New Zealand have a number of other related species of the Valdivian laurel forest, through the connection of the Antarctic flora of gymnosperms like the podocarpus and deciduous Nothofagus.\nNew Caledonia lies at the northern end of the ancient continent Zealandia, while New Zealand rises at the plate boundary that bisects it. These land masses are two outposts of the Antarctic flora, including Araucarias and Podocarps. At Curio Bay, logs of a fossilized forest closely related to modern kauri and Norfolk pine can be seen that grew on Zealandia about 180 million years ago during the Jurassic period, before it split from Gondwana.\n\nDuring glacial periods more of Zealandia becomes a terrestrial rather than a marine environment. Zealandia was originally thought to have no native land mammal fauna, but a recent discovery in 2006 of a fossil mammal jaw from the Miocene in the Otago region shows otherwise.\n\nNew Guinea and Northern Australia ecoregion are closely related. Over time Australia and New Caledonia drifted north. New Caledonia protected by the ocean remained unchanged preserving their species and Australia became drier; the humid Antarctic flora from Gondwana retreated to the east coast and Tasmania, while the rest of Australia became dominated by \"Acacia\", \"Eucalyptus\", and \"Casuarina\", as well as xeric shrubs and grasses. Humans arrived in Australia 50-60,000 years ago, and used fire to reshape the vegetation of the continent; as a result, the Antarctic flora, also known as the \"rainforest flora\" in Australia, retreated to a few isolated areas composing less than 2% of Australia's land area.\n\nThe New Caledonia rain forests are made up of three predominant forest types. The lowland rain forests cover the Loyalty Islands, and the Iles des Pines and the lower elevations of Grand Terre. Montane forests cover the higher elevations of Grand Terre. The wet maquis forests of Grand Terre are low shrub forests found on rocky soils derived from ultramafic rocks.\n\nThe predominant flora of New Caledonia rain forests is derived from the Antarctic flora of ancient southern Gondwana. Like the Australian rainforests and the temperate forests of New Zealand, conifers of the Southern Hemisphere families Araucariaceae and Podocarpaceae are mixed with angiosperm trees, including the Southern Hemisphere genus \"Nothofagus\" and trees and shrubs of families Myrtaceae and Proteaceae.\n\nThe lowland forests are a generally a mixed-species composition, interspersed with some single species stands. The predominant conifers are \"Araucaria columnaris\", \"A. bernieri\", \"Agathis lanceolata\", \"A. ovata\" (Araucariaceae), and \"Dacrydium araucarioides\", \"Dacrycarpus vieillardii\" and \"Falcatifolium taxoides\" (Podocarpaceae). Predominant angiosperm trees include \"Montrouziera cauliflora\", \"Calophyllum neocaledonicum\", \"Dysoxylum\" spp., \"Neogullauminia cleopatra\", and \"Hernandia cordigera\", together with species of the Proteaceae genera \"Kermadecia, Macadamia,\" and \"Sleumerodendron\". \"Araucaria\", \"Callistemon\", and \"Nothofagus\" predominate in the single-species stands.\n\nThe Montane rain forests are also mixed-species, predominantly the conifers \"Araucaria\", \"Agathis\", \"Podocarpus\", \"Dacrydium\", \"Libocedrus\", and \"Acmopyle\", and the angiosperms \"Metrosideros\", \"Weinmannia\", \"Quintinia\", and \"Nothofagus\"\nThere are rutaceas in New Caledonia as Citrus macroptera Montr.\nMelodinus insulae-pinorum Boiteau, Melodinus phylliraeoides Labill.\n\nThe Maquis forests hold a great variety of species, with many endemics. The ultramafic rocks, which formed in the deep ocean, are rich in metals, including nickel, magnesium, chromium, and manganese, which are toxic to many plants. The predominant trees are stunted Araucarias.\n\nNew Caledonia has one of the most enigmatic birds of the world, the endangered kagu. It is related to the cranes and it lives very hidden. It is also the heraldic bird of the island. Another endemic bird is the New Caledonian rail. This critically endangered bird could be extinct but many believe that it still persists. Both the New Caledonian owlet-nightjar and the New Caledonian lorikeet are believed to persist under similar circumstances. There are also another twenty or so endemic birds on the island, including the tool-using New Caledonian crow. See Endemic birds of New Caledonia for more details. The seashells from New Caledonia are in great demand by collectors.\n\nBiodiversity of New Caledonia\n\nFlannery, Tim (1994). \"The Future Eaters\". Grove Press, New York.\n"}
{"id": "18413515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18413515", "title": "Nonclassical ion", "text": "Nonclassical ion\n\nNonclassical carbocations are stabilized by charge delocalization from contributions of neighbouring C–C or C–H bonds, which can form bridged intermediates or transition states. Nonclassical ions have been extensively studied with the 2-norbornyl system, which as “naked” ion unambiguously exhibit such a bridged structure. The landmark of nonclassical ions are unexpectedly fast solvolysis rates and large differences between epimeric esters. Such behaviour is not restricted to 2-norbornyl esters, as has been shown with some cyclopentyl and steroidal esters with the tosyloxy leaving group.\n\nSubstitution reactions of secondary esters occur by S2- or S1-like mechanisms. Only in highly polar solvents such as hexafluoroisopropanol (HFIP) of low nucleophilicity one can expect a nearly same uniform S1-like mechanism. The solvolysis of several cyclopentyl and steroidal esters show that large solvolysis rates and differences between epimers can occur which surpass those of the 2-norbornyl system. In these cases a vicinal C–C or C–H bond can lead to significant delocalization of the positive charge, if these bonds are close to antiperiplanar to the leaving group, and the migration leads to a more stable tertiary carbocation. The reaction products in these cases always result from the migration of the neighbouring bond.\n\nThe reaction of epimeric esters can be severely slowed by steric hindrance of solvation.\n\nSolvolysis of cyclopropylcarbinyl, cyclobutyl and homoallyl esters are also characterized by very large rates, and have been shown to occur via a common nonclassical ion structure in the form of a bicyclobutonium ion.\n\n"}
{"id": "35108548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35108548", "title": "Petroleum Price Board", "text": "Petroleum Price Board\n\nThe Petroleum Price Board (\"Petroleumsprisrådet\") is a Norwegian government agency responsible for setting norm prices for petroleum produced on the Norwegian continental shelf. The Board has six permanent members, including four government-appointed independent experts and one representative each from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy. The Board meets quarterly.\n"}
{"id": "48287125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48287125", "title": "Phosphorus mononitride", "text": "Phosphorus mononitride\n\nPhosphorus mononitride is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula PN. Containing only phosphorus and nitrogen, this material is classified as a binary nitride.\n\nIt is the first identified phosphorus compound in the interstellar medium.\n\nIt is an important molecule in interstellar medium and the atmospheres of Jupiter and Saturn.\n\n"}
{"id": "5171444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5171444", "title": "Polar (star)", "text": "Polar (star)\n\nA Polar is a highly magnetic type of cataclysmic variable binary star system, originally known as an AM Herculis star after the prototype member AM Herculis. Like other cataclysmic variables (CVs), polars contain two stars: an accreting white dwarf (WD), and a low-mass donor star (usually a red dwarf) which is transferring mass to the WD as a result of the WD's gravitational pull, overflowing its Roche lobe. Polars are distinguished from other CVs by the presence of a very strong magnetic field in the WD. Typical magnetic field strengths of polar systems are 10 million to 80 million gauss (1000–8000 teslas). The WD in the polar AN Ursae Majoris has the strongest known magnetic field among cataclysmic variables, with a field strength of 230 million gauss (23 kT).\n\nOne of the most critical consequences of the WD's magnetism is that it synchronizes the rotational period of the WD with the orbital period of the binary; to first order, this means that the same side of the WD always faces the donor star. This synchronous rotation is considered a defining feature of polars. Additionally, the WD's magnetic field captures the accretion stream from the donor star before it can develop into an accretion disk. The capture of the accretion stream is known as threading, and it occurs when the magnetic pressure from the WD matches the stream's ram pressure. The captured material flows along the WD's magnetic field lines until it violently accretes onto the WD in a shock near one or more of the star's magnetic poles. This accretion region covers only a fraction of the WD's surface, but it can contribute half of the system's optical light. In addition to optical and near-infrared cyclotron radiation, the accretion region also produces X-rays due to the high temperature of gas within the shock, so polars are frequently brighter in X-rays than non-magnetic CVs.\n\nWhereas accretion in a non-magnetic system is governed by viscosity within the accretion disk, accretion in a polar is entirely magnetic. Additionally, while an accretion disk can be crudely envisioned as a two-dimensional structure with no significant thickness, the accretion flow in a polar has complex three-dimensional structure because the magnetic field lines lift it out of the orbital plane. Indeed, in some polars, the vertical extent of the accretion flow enables it to regularly pass in front of the WD's accretion spot as seen from Earth, causing a temporary decrease in the system's observed brightness.\n\nPolars derive their name from the linearly and circularly polarized light that they produce. Information about the accretion geometry of a polar can be found by studying its polarization.\n\nThe 1:1 ratio of the WD rotational period and the binary orbital period is a fundamental property of polars, but in four polars (V1500 Cyg, BY Cam, V1432 Aql, and CD Ind), these two periods are different by ~1% or less. The most common explanation for the WD's asynchronous rotation is that each of these systems had been synchronous until a nova eruption broke the synchronization by changing the WD's rotation period. The first known asynchronous polar, V1500 Cyg, underwent a nova in 1975, and its asynchronous rotation was discovered after the nova faded, providing the best observational evidence of this scenario. In V1500 Cyg, BY Cam, and V1432 Aql, there is observational evidence that the WD is resynchronizing its spin period with the orbital period, and these systems are expected to become synchronous on a timescale of centuries.\n\nDue to the slight difference between the orbital and WD rotation periods, the WD and its magnetosphere slowly rotate as seen from the donor star. Critically, this asynchronous rotation causes the accretion stream to interact with different magnetic field lines. Since the accretion flow travels along the field lines which have captured it, it will follow different trajectories when it interacts with different field lines. As a concrete example, the accretion flow in the eclipsing polar V1432 Aql sometimes threads onto field lines which carry it so far above the orbital plane that the flow is not obscured when the donor star eclipses the WD, but at other times, it threads onto field lines with less vertical extent, causing the accretion flow to be much more fully eclipsed. The corresponding variations in eclipse depth were shown to depend very strongly on the orientation of the WD's magnetic field with respect to the donor star. For comparison, in a synchronous polar, the WD does not rotate with respect to the donor star, and the stream always interacts with the same field lines, resulting in a stable accretion geometry.\n\nThere is also evidence in each of the four asynchronous polars that the accretion stream is able to travel much deeper into the WD's magnetosphere than in synchronous systems, implying an unusually high rate of mass transfer from the donor star or a low magnetic field strength, but this has not been studied in detail.\n\nAnother class of cataclysmic variables with magnetic white dwarfs accreting material from a main sequence donor star are the intermediate polars. These have less strong magnetic fields and the rotation of the white dwarf is not synchronised with the orbital period. It has been proposed that intermediate polars may evolve into polars as the donor is depleted and the orbit shrinks.\n"}
{"id": "31191194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31191194", "title": "Preston Hill Country Park", "text": "Preston Hill Country Park\n\nPreston Hill Country Park is in Eynsford, in Kent, England. It is a woodland and former military firing range.\n\nWithin the site of the park and woodland, stood Preston Hill farmhouse. This was then damaged in 1944 after a 1000 kg parachute bomb or mine was dropped, in the early hours of 22 January 1944. Three of the farmhouse occupants were killed and 8 others were injured, later the ruined farmhouse was demolished. The site was then used as a Ministry of Defence firing range (up to the 1940s); the remnants of the range can still be seen.\n\nSince 1951 it has been a Site of Special Scientific Interest (part of \"Otford To Shoreham Downs site\").\n\nPreston Hill has extensive views across the countryside from the Darenth Valley (following the River Darent) to Lullingstone Country Park.\nThe site has of chalk grassland and woodland with many wild flowers and rare butterflies at this site of outstanding natural beauty located within the Kent Downs.\n\nOn the grasslands, a variety of butterflies including chalkhill blues and dark green fritillaries can be seen. Since the site is relatively quiet, common adders and grass snakes can also be found.\nThe grassland is grazed occasionally by a herd of feral goats, which came from the Great Orme, near Colwyn Bay in North Wales.These are used to further encourage the growth of wildflowers. \n\nThere are paths through the woodland (called 'Preston Plantation') at the top of the hill although they are steep in places and some have become overgrown.\n\nThe park also is acreddited with a Green Flag Award by Natural England (linked with Lullingstone Country Park).\n\nSituated along A225 Station road, cross the railway (between Shoreham and Eynsford) then head up Preston Hill. \nThe site has no official car park, but the site is only about 1 mile from Lullingstone Country Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "11339473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11339473", "title": "Proteus (satellite)", "text": "Proteus (satellite)\n\nProteus is the name of the multimission platform satellite developed by CNES and Aérospatiale Satellite Division (now Thales Alenia Space) in France.\n"}
{"id": "7704334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7704334", "title": "Sarraounia", "text": "Sarraounia\n\nSarraounia Mangou was a chief/priestess of the animist Azna subgroup of the Hausa, who fought French colonial troops of the Voulet–Chanoine Mission at the Battle of Lougou (in present-day Niger) in 1899. She is the subject of the 1986 film \"Sarraounia\" based on the novel of the same name by Nigerien writer Abdoulaye Mamani.\n\n\"Sarraounia\" means \"queen\" or \"female chief\" in the Hausa language. Among the predominately animist Azna people of Lougou and surrounding Hausa towns and villages, the term refers to a lineage of female rulers who exercised both political and religious power. Sarraounia Mangou was the most famous of the Sarraounias due to her resistance against French colonial troops at the Battle of Lougou in 1899. While most chiefs in Niger pragmatically submitted to French power, Sarraounia Mangou mobilized her people and resources to confront the French forces of the Voulet–Chanoine Mission, which launched a fierce attack on her fortress capital of Lougou.\n\nOverwhelmed by the superior firepower of the French, she and her fighters retreated tactically from the fortress, and engaged the attackers in a protracted guerrilla battle which eventually forced the French to abandon their project of subduing her.\n\nThe 1986 film \"Sarraounia\" is a retelling of her struggle against Voulet and Chanoine's troops.\n\n"}
{"id": "701916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701916", "title": "Silly season", "text": "Silly season\n\nIn the United Kingdom and in some other places, the silly season is the period lasting for a few summer months typified by the emergence of frivolous news stories in the media. It is known in many languages as the cucumber time. The term was coined in an 1861 \"Saturday Review\" article, and was listed in the second edition of \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" (1894) and remains in use at the start of the 21st century. The fifteenth edition of \"Brewer's\" expands on the second, defining the silly season as \"the part of the year when Parliament and the Law Courts are not sitting (about August and September)\".\n\nIn North America the period is often referred to prosaically as the slow news season, or less commonly with the phrase dog days of summer. In Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, the silly season has come to refer to the Christmas/New Year festive period (which occurs during the summer season in the Southern Hemisphere) on account of the higher than usual number of social engagements where the consumption of alcohol is typical.\n\nThe term is also used in sports, to describe periods outside traditional competitive sporting seasons.\n\nTypically, the latter half of the summer is slow in terms of newsworthy events. Newspapers as their primary means of income rely on advertisements, which rely on readers seeing them, but historically newspaper readership drops off during this time. In the United Kingdom, Parliament takes its summer recess, so that parliamentary debates and Prime Minister's Questions, which generate much news coverage, do not happen. This period is also a summer school holiday, when many families with children choose to take holidays, and there is accordingly often a decline of business news, as many employers reduce their activity. Similar recesses are typical of legislative bodies elsewhere. To retain (and attract) subscribers, newspapers would print attention-grabbing headlines and articles to boost sales, often to do with minor moral panics or child abductions. For example, the extensive British press coverage devoted to Operation Irma, a humanitarian airlift during the Siege of Sarajevo, was criticised as a \"silly season\" tactic.\n\nOther countries have comparable periods, for example the \"Sommerloch\" (\"summer [news]hole\") in German-speaking Europe; French has \"la morte-saison\" (\"the dead season\" or \"the dull season\") or \"la saison des marronniers\" (\"the conker tree season\"), and Swedish has \"nyhetstorka\" (\"news drought\").\n\nIn many languages, the name for the silly season references cucumbers (more precisely: gherkins or pickled cucumbers). \"Komkommertijd\" in Dutch, Danish \"agurketid\", Icelandic \"gúrkutíð\", Norwegian \"agurktid \"(a piece of news is called \"agurknytt \"or \"agurknyhet\", i.e., \"cucumber news\"), Czech \"okurková sezóna\", Slovak \"uhorková sezóna\", Polish \"Sezon ogórkowy\", Hungarian \"uborkaszezon\", and Hebrew עונת המלפפונים (\"onat ha'melafefonim\", \"season of the cucumbers\") all mean \"cucumber time\" or \"cucumber season\". The corresponding term in German is \"Sauregurkenzeit\" and in Estonian \"hapukurgihooaeg\" (\"pickled cucumber season\"); the same term is also used in Slovene as \"čas kislih kumaric\".\n\nThe term \"cucumber time\" was also used in England in the 1800s to denote the slow season for tailors.\n\nA silly season news item is called \"rötmånadshistoria\" in Sweden and \"mätäkuun juttu\" in Finland, both literally meaning \"rotting-month story\".\n\nIn Spain the term \"serpiente de verano\" (\"summer snake\") is often used, not for the season, but for the news items. The term is a reference to the Loch Ness Monster and similar creatures, who are reputed to get more headlines in summer.\n\nA side effect of stirring up the public in this manner comes when an authentic story is dismissed as a prank, or when a superfluous story is taken as legitimate.\n\nA 1950 short story by Cyril M. Kornbluth, titled \"The Silly Season\", makes use of this concept by having invading aliens stage one strange but harmless event after another. All are duly reported by the newspapers until the public is bored with them, and when a final \"strange event\" occurs, no one is prepared to accept it as an invasion until it is too late. The story was included in the 1952 anthology \"Tomorrow, the Stars\", edited by Robert A. Heinlein.\n\nSilly Season also refers to time periods outside traditional season-long competitive sporting competitions. In team sports such as association football and professional ice hockey, and leagues such as Formula One, NASCAR, the NBA, or the NFL, the final weeks of the season leading into off-time between one season and the next is filled with speculation regarding possible changes involving players, staff, and teams. Regardless of whether the speculation remains just that or indeed bears fruit, the moves and the discussions they generate help build interest in the leagues, their teams, and their upcoming seasons.\n\nSilly season is also used in professional golf to describe tournaments that are not official PGA Tour or LPGA Tour events. Normally scheduled at or near the end of the calendar year, when PGA and LPGA tournaments are not usually scheduled, these events also employ formats of play not normally seen on those tours. The Shark Shootout and the Skins Game are two such examples of silly season events.\n\nIn US politics and lifestyle, the silly season is a period from early summer until the first week of October of election years. Primary elections are over at this time, but formal debates have not started and the general election is still many weeks away. Issues raised during this period are likely to be forgotten by the election, so candidates may rely on frivolous political posturing and hyperbole to get media attention and raise money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6441759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6441759", "title": "Stars in astrology", "text": "Stars in astrology\n\nIn astrology, certain stars are considered significant. Historically, all of the various heavenly bodies considered by astrologers were considered \"stars\", whether they were stars, planets, other stellar phenomena like novas and supernovas, or other solar system phenomena like comets and meteors.\n\nIn traditional astrological nomenclature, the stars were divided into fixed stars, Latin \"stellæ fixæ\", which in astrology means the stars and other galactic or intergalactic bodies as recognized by astronomy; and \"wandering stars\" (Greek: \"πλανήτης αστήρ\", \"planētēs astēr\"), which we know as the planets of the solar system. Astrology also treats the Sun, a star, and Earth's Moon as if they were planets in the horoscope. These stars were called \"fixed\" because it was thought that they were attached to the firmament, the most distant from Earth of the heavenly spheres.\n\nCertain of the astrological degrees were identified and known due to their association with a corresponding star. The astrological degrees that correspond to individual stars must be corrected for the precession of the equinoxes, and as such the astrologer must know when any given position of a fixed star was noted, to make the necessary corrections.\n\nTraditional Western astrology is based on tropical astrology, which presumes an equal division of the celestial sphere along the ecliptic into twelve equal parts, starting with Aries. Sidereal astrology, at once the oldest and a recently revived astrological tradition, is more observationally oriented and uses the actual observed position of the stars and the traditional divisions of the zodiac constellations as its starting point. As a result of the precession of the equinoxes, the observed positions of the zodiac signs no longer correspond to the signs of tropical astrology.\n\nTraditionally, the most important fixed points in the heavens were described by the constellations of the zodiac. Ptolemy's account likens the influence of some of the stars in the zodiac constellations to the planets; he writes, for example, that \"The stars in the feet of Gemini (Alhena and Tejat Posterior) have an influence similar to that of Mercury, and moderately to that of Venus.\"\nVivian E. Robson notes that many of the traditional constellations outside of the zodiac constellations occupy large degrees of arc and typically compass several of the tropical zodiac signs. Ptolemy referred to stars by reference to the anatomy or parts of the constellations in which they appeared; thus Arcturus he named the \"right knee of Boötes\". Most of the Western names of stars, such as Algol or Betelgeuse, are Arabic in origin. In 1603 the Augsburg lawyer-uranographer Johann Bayer introduced the current classificatory system for the brighter stars, in which stars are identified as belonging to their constellations by Greek letters, in (roughly) descending order of brightness; so that Regulus, brightest star in Leo, is called \"α Leonis\", the brightest star of the Lion.\n\nUnpredictable observations in the heavens, including novas and supernovas as well as other phenomena in the heavens such as comets, meteors, parhelions, and even rainbows, were all collected under the name of astrological meteors. According to Ptolemy, variations in the magnitude of fixed stars portends wind from the direction in which the star lies. Etymologically, the word \"meteor\" describes any phenomenon in the heavens, and derives from the Greek \"\" (\"meteōron\"), signifying anything in the sky or above the earth; this is the shared origin of English words such as meteoroid and meteorology.\n\nThese astrological meteors were typically held to be omens that presaged major world events. In \"De nova stella\", Tycho Brahe, one of many astrologers who observed the supernova of 1572, stated his belief that the appearance of the supernova heralded the decline of the Roman Catholic Church and stated that the years 1592-1632 would be impacted by the astrological influence of the supernova. The years corresponded almost precisely with the lifespan of Gustavus Adolphus (1594 - 1632), the king of Sweden who championed the cause of Protestantism during the Thirty Years War. This apparently successful prediction won Brahe international fame as an astrologer.\n\nAccording to Nicholas DeVore, while the fixed stars no longer are consulted much in natal astrology, they remain important in aspects of astrological divination such as judicial astrology. Those astrologers who include them in natal charts do not give a major star any significance unless it appears as part of a close conjunction with a birth planet, within 5° by celestial longitude, and 1° by latitude. They have no effect by means of aspect. A first magnitude or brighter star on the Ascendant or Midheaven in the horoscope may indicate celebrity. The two stars Aldebaran and Antares are said to produce stress when they transit one of the angles of the horoscope.\n\nSome astrologers that consult the stars refer to their affects as \"paranatellonta\", or \"paran\" for short. Paranatellonta are stars that fall upon one of the four angles of the horoscope (rising or setting, at the midheaven, or at the imum coeli) at the same time a significant planet is at one of those points. Thus, for example, if Sirius was rising while Jupiter was at the midheaven, Sirius would be considered a paran of Jupiter and could influence the way the astrologer interpreted Jupiter in that horoscope.\n\nAstrologically, Aldebaran is a fortunate star, portending riches and honor. This star, named \"Tascheter\" by the Persians, is one of the four \"royal stars\" of the Persians from around 3000 BC. These stars were chosen in such way that they were approximately 6 hours apart in right ascension. Each of these stars was assigned to a season, Aldebaran was prominent in the March sky and as such, it was associated with the vernal equinox. Its current celestial longitude is 09 Ge. 47 as of 2006\n\nThe four royal stars with their modern and ancient Persian names were\n\n\nTo medieval astrologers, Aldebaran was one of fifteen Behenian stars, associated with rubies, milk thistles and the kabbalistic sign .\n\nIn Hindu astrology, Aldebaran corresponds to the Rohini Nakshatra.\n\nIn Western Sidereal Astrology, computation is based on defining Aldebaran as 15 degrees Taurus precisely.<Cyril Fagan><Garth Allen>\n\nIn astrology, Algol is one of the most unfortunate stars. Ptolemy referred to it as \"the Gorgon of Perseus\" and associated it with death by decapitation: mirroring the myth of the hero Perseus’ victory over the snake-headed Gorgon Medusa. Historically, it has received a strong association with violence across a wide variety of cultures. Medieval Arabic commanders tried to ensure that no important battle began whilst the light of Algol was weak. Algol was connected to the prognoses in an ancient Egyptian calendar for lucky and unlucky days composed about 3200 years \nago. \nThe 17th century English astrologer William Lilly regarded any planet to be afflicted when within five degrees of conjunction. As of 1986 its celestial longitude was 25 Tau. 55'48.\n\nAlgol is also one of the 15 Behenian stars, associated with the diamond and hellebore, and marked with the kabbalistic sign: \n\nGienah (gamma Corvi) is supposed to have a similar effect to Mars and Saturn, tending to promote greed and craftiness. It was one of the medieval Behenian stars, associated with onyx, burdock, and a crow-like kabbalistic symbol . In this context it is sometimes referred to as Ala Corvi, \"the wing of the crow or raven\".\n\nAstrologically, Procyon is considered mostly unfortunate although it is sometimes wealth producing. It has strong potential as a cause of violence; it brings sudden success then disaster. It is of the nature of Mars (and also Mercury to a lesser extent), and when Mars is found conjoined to this star, the native with this configuration will often be an offender of mischief and violence, that is, if these stars are found upon one of the 4 angles of the chart, during the day, with the Moon making a testimony to them while increasing in light. It is also one of fifteen Behenian stars, associated with agate and water crowfoot. According to Cornelius Agrippa, its kabbalistic symbol is .\n\nIn the astrology of the Middle Ages, Sirius was a Behenian fixed star, associated with beryl and juniper. Its kabbalistic symbol was listed by Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa. Its celestial longitude was 14 Can. 05 as of 2006.\n\nVega (or Wega) takes its name from a loose transliteration of the Arabic word \"\" meaning \"falling\". Its constellation (Lyre) was represented as a vulture or eagle so that Vega was referred to as the 'falling vulture/eagle'. This is a Pole star. Around 12,000 BC the pole was pointed only five degrees away from Vega and through precession, the pole will again pass near Vega around AD 14,000. \nMedieval astrologers counted Vega as one of the Behenian stars and related it to chrysolite and winter savory. Cornelius Agrippa listed its kabbalistic sign under \"Vultur cadens\", a literal Latin translation of the Arabic name. Its celestial longitude was 15 Cap. 19 as of 2006. In Vedic Astrology the Nakshatra Abhijit is known as Vega.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49557171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49557171", "title": "Tellurium ion resistance", "text": "Tellurium ion resistance\n\nThe Tellurium Ion Resistance (TerC) Family (TC# 2.A.109) is part of the Lysine Exporter (LysE) Superfamily. A representative list of proteins belonging to the TerC family can be found in the Transporter Classification Database.\n\nThe TerC family (Pfam 03741) includes the \"E. coli\" TerC protein (TC# 2.A.109.1.1) which has been implicated in tellurium resistance. It is hypothesized to catalyze efflux of tellurium ions. TerC is encoded by plasmid pTE53 from a clinical isolate of \"E. coli.\" It has 346 amino acyl residues (aas) and 9 putative transmembrane segments (TMSs) with a large hydrophilic loop between TMSs 5 and 6.\n\nA homologue in \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" (TC# 9.A.30.2.1) may function in prothylakoid membrane biogenises during early chloroplast development. It has 384 aas and 7-8 putative TMSs. In \"E. coli\", TerC forms a membrane complex with TerB as well as DctA, PspA, HslU, and RplK. The TerB/TerC complex may link different functional modules with biochemical activities of C4-dicarboxylate transport, inner membrane stress response (phage shock protein regulatory complex), ATPase/chaperone activity, and proteosynthesis. It may be part of a metal sensing stress response system. The co-presence of TerC and TerE but not TerF correlates with tellurite resistance when several hundred bacterial strains were assayed.\n\nThe reaction proposed to be catalyzed by TerC is:\n\ntellurium ions (in) → tellurium ions (out).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649517", "title": "The Cay", "text": "The Cay\n\nThe Cay is a teen novel written by Theodore Taylor. It was published in 1969.\n\n\"The Cay\" took only three weeks to complete. Taylor based the character of the boy in his book on a child who was aboard the \"Hato\", when it was torpedoed, who drifts out to sea on a lifeboat. The novel was published in 1969 and dedicated to Martin Luther King, Jr.\n\nWhen World War II breaks out, 11-year-old Phillip Enright and his mother board the S.S. \"Hato\" to Virginia because his mother feels it is unsafe to stay in Curaçao with the German submarines surrounding the area. The ship is torpedoed, and Phillip is stranded in the sea with an old black man named Timothy and a cat named Stew Cat. Drifting at sea, Phillip is blinded by the sun's glare on the water. They soon find an island in Devil's Mouth and build a hut while keeping track of the days by putting pebbles in a can. With few supplies, they live alone together for two months, fishing and collecting rain water. The cay is only 1 mile long and 1/2 a mile in width. Initially, the pair display significant difficulty in being able to tolerate and work with each other, often because of young white Phillip's racial prejudice against the elderly black Timothy. Phillip learns to overcome his disdain for Timothy and develops a strong bond of friendship by the end of the novel, as Timothy takes care of Phillip and teaches him to survive independently, to the point where Phillip doesn't need him anymore. Planes fly over the cay, but they do not see Timothy and Phillip, lengthening their time stranded there. After a hurricane hits the cay and Timothy dies from \"being tired\", Phillip, devastated, digs a small grave for him. He is left with only Stew Cat. Phillip is then rescued by a navy vessel and one year after he and Timothy find the island, he has many surgeries to get his sight back. In the end, Phillip decides he will become a sea explorer and travel to multiple islands and soon hopes to find the Cay he and Timothy had been stranded on, which he is certain he will be able to recognize by closing his eyes.\n\nPhillip Enright: 11-year-old protagonist and narrator, is marooned on a cay in \"The Devil's Mouth\" with Timothy. Skeptical of Timothy at first because he is black, he relies on him when he is blinded and comes to appreciate him and creates a strong bond of friendship and trust with Timothy.\n\nTimothy: West Indian native of Charlotte Amalie in Saint Thomas, is marooned with Phillip. He cares for Phillip and understands many survival tactics including fishing and shelter-building. Although at times superstitious, he is old, wise, and patient, stern, and helps Phillip learn to be self-sufficient.\n\nStew Cat: Feline companion of Phillip and Timothy on the cay, especially comforting for Phillip. Timothy at one point believes he may be an evil spirit called a Jumbi. Before the S.S. \"Hato\" was torpedoed, he was the cook's cat.\n\nPhillip's Mother, Grace: Accompanies Phillip on the S.S. \"Hato\" headed for Virginia, is separated from him when it sinks. Notably racist against the black inhabitants of Curaçao.\n\nPhillip's Father, Phillip Enright Sr.: Relocates the family to the Dutch West Indies for government-related work. He works in an oil refinery that increases the production of aviation gas.\n\nHenrik van Boven: Phillip's Dutch-national friend in Curaçao; he does not understand Phillip's mother's disdain for blacks.\n\nPhillip is in the beginning and throughout the early parts of the novel skeptical of blacks, which seems partially provoked by his mother, who is described as homesick for Virginia and unused to Curaçao. Phillip mentions that his mother did not like the blacks who worked on the bay, asking him and his friend Henrik not to go there and telling him that the blacks live differently than Phillip. Phillip doesn't understand why she feels this way, especially since Henrik finds it particularly unusual, but nevertheless, initially, it shows that he seems to have the same sentiments when dealing with Timothy.\n\nPhillip finds that there are some similarities between himself and Timothy. On page 40, Timothy reveals he's from Charlotte Amalie on St. Thomas, to which Phillip responds that means he's American, citing the American purchase of the Virgin Islands from Denmark as a result of the Treaty of the Danish West Indies. Timothy only laughs and mentions that he never gave it much thought. Phillip seems unsure what to make of Timothy and asks if his parents were African; he notices that Timothy looked \"pure African\" and says he looked very much like men he'd seen in \"jungle pictures\", but Timothy says he has only ever known the Caribbean islands.\n\nWhen Phillip ends up blind, he comes to rely upon Timothy to provide for him and teach him. This alters the dynamic of their relationship greatly. Timothy proves to a surprised Phillip that he has a great knowledge of the Caribbean islands and survival tactics, able to make shelter, gather food and water, and survive. He teaches these to Phillip so that he won't be an invalid. In turn, their bond strengthens and Phillip grows to admire and befriend Timothy. He is devastated at Timothy's death, makes a grave for him, and sobs.\n\nWhen he returns to Curaçao, Phillip spends a lot of time with the workers of St. Anna Bay, many of whom knew Timothy and remember him fondly. Phillip notes that he feels close to those people; he no longer has any prejudice.\n\nPublished to both wide acclaim and pointed criticism for its impact as a promoter of racial harmony, \"The Cay\" received Jane Addams Children's Book Award in 1970. In 1974, when NBC-TV adapted its story for a television drama, the Council on Interracial Books for Children organized a press conference to \"urge people to watch the telecast and, if you feel as we do, that an insidiously racist message is contained in the story, please call your local stations.\" As part of that press conference, the current chair of the Addams Award Committee, who was not the chair at the time the award was given to \"The Cay\", publicly stated that she thought it was a mistake to have named \"The Cay\" an Addams Award winner for having a racist theme. In response, Taylor, who saw the work as \"a subtle plea for better race relations and more understanding,\" returned the Award \"by choice, not in anger, but with troubling questions.\" In later years, Taylor reported that the Award had been rescinded. Even though \"The Cay\" remains on the list of Addams Award winners, Taylor's claim is widely thought to be true and has become a part of reading and discussing the book as required reading in schools in dozens of U.S. states as well as internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "763533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=763533", "title": "The Fauna of British India, Including Ceylon and Burma", "text": "The Fauna of British India, Including Ceylon and Burma\n\nThe Fauna of British India (short title) with long titles including The Fauna of British India, Including Ceylon and Burma, The Fauna of British India Including the Remainder of the Oriental Region is a series of scientific books that was published by the British government in India and printed by Taylor and Francis of London. The series was started sometime in 1881 after a letter had been sent to the Secretary of State for India signed by Charles Darwin, Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker and other \"eminent men of science\" forwarded by P.L.Sclater to R.H. Hobart. W. T. Blanford was appointed editor and began work on the volume on mammals.\n\nIn the volume on the mammals, Blanford notes:\nThe idea was to cover initially the vertebrates, taking seven volumes, and this was followed by a proposal to cover the invertebrates in about 15 to 20 volumes and projected to cost ₤11250 to ₤15000. Blanford suggested that restricting it to 14 volumes would make it possible to limit the cost to ₤10500. After Blanford's death, Arthur Everett Shipley became the editor. The first series was followed by a second edition of some of the volumes such as the mammals, birds, reptiles and butterflies. In 1922-23, Nelson Annandale sought to move the process of preparation of the books and its publication to India. The second edition is sometimes called the \"new fauna\". There were changes incorporated in this that included for instance the usage of trinomials for the birds. Following Shipley's death in 1927, Lieutenant Colonel John Stephenson, formerly of the Indian Medical Service was appointed editor in May 1928. After Indian Independence in 1947 a few volumes were published under the new name of Fauna of India but some of the volumes that were under preparation were never published. The 1953 volume on polychaetes by Pierre Fauvel was published by the Indian Press from Allahabad.\n\n\n\n\nAlthough these volumes were sanctioned, they were never published.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24516495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24516495", "title": "UWE-2", "text": "UWE-2\n\nThe University Würzburg's Experimental satellite 2 (UWE-2) is a CubeSat of a length of 10 cm and a mass of 1 kg. Developed by the University of Würzburg, its scientific objectives are;\n\nOn 23.9.2009 UWE-2 was launched by an Indian PSLV rocket (PSLV-C14) together with Oceansat-2 and three further CubeSats in a polar orbit at 730 km altitude. Successful operations could be initiated.\n\nUWE-2 followed the earlier UWE-1. UWE-3 is also planned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3988692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3988692", "title": "Useful conversions and formulas for air dispersion modeling", "text": "Useful conversions and formulas for air dispersion modeling\n\nVarious governmental agencies involved with environmental protection and with occupational safety and health have promulgated regulations limiting the allowable concentrations of gaseous pollutants in the ambient air or in emissions to the ambient air. Such regulations involve a number of different expressions of concentration. Some express the concentrations as ppmv and some express the concentrations as mg/m³, while others require adjusting or correcting the concentrations to reference conditions of moisture content, oxygen content or carbon dioxide content. This article presents a set of useful conversions and formulas for air dispersion modeling of atmospheric pollutants and for complying with the various regulations as to how to express the concentrations obtained by such modeling.\n\nThe conversion equations depend on the temperature at which the conversion is wanted (usually about 20 to 25 degrees Celsius). At an ambient air pressure of 1 atmosphere (101.325 kPa), the general equation is:\n\nand for the reverse conversion:\n\nNotes:\n\nAtmospheric pollutant concentrations expressed as mass per unit volume of atmospheric air (e.g., mg/m³, µg/m³, etc.) at sea level will decrease with increasing altitude because the atmospheric pressure decreases with increasing altitude.\n\nThe change of atmospheric pressure with altitude can be obtained from this equation:\n\nGiven an atmospheric pollutant concentration at an atmospheric pressure of 1 atmosphere (i.e., at sea level altitude), the concentration at other altitudes can be obtained from this equation:\n\nAs an example, given a concentration of 260 mg/m³ at sea level, calculate the equivalent concentration at an altitude of 1,800 meters:\n\n\"C\" = 260 × 0.9877 = 208 mg/m³ at 1,800 meters altitude\n\nA normal cubic meter (Nm³ ) is the metric expression of gas volume at standard conditions and it is usually (\"but not always\") defined as being measured at 0 °C and 1 atmosphere of pressure.\n\nA standard cubic foot (scf) is the USA expression of gas volume at standard conditions and it is often (\"but not always\") defined as being measured at 60 °F and 1 atmosphere of pressure. There are other definitions of standard gas conditions used in the USA besides 60 °F and 1 atmosphere.\n\nThat being understood:\n\n1 Nm³ of any gas (measured at 0 °C and 1 atmosphere of absolute pressure) equals 37.326 scf of that gas (measured at 60 °F and 1 atmosphere of absolute pressure).\n\n1 kmol of any ideal gas equals 22.414 Nm³ of that gas at 0 °C and 1 atmosphere of absolute pressure ... and 1 lbmol of any ideal gas equals 379.482 scf of that gas at 60 °F and 1 atmosphere of absolute pressure.\n\nNotes:\n\nMeteorological data includes windspeeds which may be expressed as statute miles per hour, knots, or meters per second. Here are the conversion factors for those various expressions of windspeed:\n\n1 m/s = 2.237 statute mile/h = 1.944 knots<br>\n1 knot = 1.151 statute mile/h = 0.514 m/s<br>\n1 statute mile/h = 0.869 knots = 0.447 m/s\n\nNote:\n\nMany environmental protection agencies have issued regulations that limit the concentration of pollutants in gaseous emissions and define the reference conditions applicable to those concentration limits. For example, such a regulation might limit the concentration of NOx to 55 ppmv in a dry combustion exhaust gas corrected to 3 volume percent O. As another example, a regulation might limit the concentration of particulate matter to 0.1 grain per standard cubic foot (i.e., scf) of dry exhaust gas corrected to 12 volume percent CO.\n\nEnvironmental agencies in the USA often denote a standard cubic foot of dry gas as \"dscf\" or as \"scfd\". Likewise, a standard cubic meter of dry gas is often denoted as \"dscm\" or \"scmd\" (again, by environmental agencies in the USA).\n\nIf a gaseous emission sample is analyzed and found to contain water vapor and a pollutant concentration of say 40 ppmv, then 40 ppmv should be designated as the \"wet basis\" pollutant concentration. The following equation can be used to correct the measured \"wet basis\" concentration to a \"dry basis\" concentration:\n\nThus, a wet basis concentration of 40 ppmv in a gas having 10 volume percent water vapor would have a dry basis concentration = 40 ÷ ( 1 - 0.10 ) = 44.44 ppmv.\n\nThe following equation can be used to correct a measured pollutant concentration in an emitted gas (containing a measured O content) to an equivalent pollutant concentration in an emitted gas containing a specified reference amount of O:\n\nThus, a measured NOx concentration of 45 ppmv (dry basis) in a gas having 5 volume % O is<br>\n45 × ( 20.9 - 3 ) ÷ ( 20.9 - 5 ) = 50.7 ppmv (dry basis) of NOx when corrected to a gas having a specified reference O content of 3 volume %.\n\nThe following equation can be used to correct a measured pollutant concentration in an emitted gas (containing a measured CO content) to an equivalent pollutant concentration in an emitted gas containing a specified reference amount of CO:\n\nThus, a measured particulates concentration of 0.1 grain per dscf in a gas that has 8 volume % CO is<br>\n0.1 × ( 12 ÷ 8 ) = 0.15 grain per dscf when corrected to a gas having a specified reference CO content of 12 volume %.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n"}
