{"id": "4665621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4665621", "title": "ABC Codes", "text": "ABC Codes\n\nABC Codes are five-digit Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) compliant alpha codes (e.g., AAAAA) used by licensed and non-licensed healthcare practitioners on standard healthcare claim forms (e.g., CMS 1500 Form) to describe services, remedies and/or supply items provided and/or used during patient visits. ABC codes contain both a short description and an expanded definition of the service, remedy and/or supply item. ABC codes were created and designed by ABC Coding Solutions .\n\nABC codes fill gaps in healthcare coding and the National Health Information Network (NHIN) that older medical code sets do not cover by describing care provided by all healthcare practitioners. ABC codes can also be used in conjunction with two-digit, alpha-numeric practitioner identifiers (e.g., 1A) to identify the practitioner type (e.g., chiropractor) providing the service. Additionally, ABC codes are supported by state legislative references regarding scope of practice and training requirements on a code, state and practitioner-specific basis.\n\nABC codes are a proposed solution and approach to accurately document care provided during each patient encounter as mandated by HIPAA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33473249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33473249", "title": "Aftermath of the 2011 Libyan Civil War", "text": "Aftermath of the 2011 Libyan Civil War\n\nThe aftermath of the Libyan Civil War has been characterized by marked change in the social and political order of Libya after the overthrow and killing of Muammar Gaddafi in the 2011 Libyan Civil War. The country has been subject to ongoing proliferation of weapons, Islamic insurgencies, sectarian violence, and lawlessness, with spillovers affecting neighboring countries including Mali.\n\nAfter the interim National Transitional Council (NTC) declared that the country had been liberated in October 2011, it began a process to form a new government, prepare for elections and prosecute former Gaddafi officials. In the absence of an organized military, armed militias of former rebels continued to assert their role as \"guardians of the revolution\" around the country, and there were reports of vigilante justice and sporadic clashes between rival militias. International organizations voiced concerns over the proliferation of weapons in the region, and the risk that they might fall into the hands of militant Islamists.\n\nElections were held in July 2012 to a General National Congress (GNC), which took power a month later, charged with organising a constituent assembly for authoring Libya's new constitution. The NTC was formally dissolved, and in November 2012 Ali Zeidan was sworn in as Prime Minister. In March 2014, Zeidan was ousted by the GNC, amid escalating conflict in the country. On 4 August 2014, the GNC was replaced by a newly elected Council of Deputies (CoD), but on 25 August 2014, some members of the former GNC reconvened unilaterally and said they had elected Omar al-Hasi as Prime Minister, effectively leaving the country with two rival governments: the one proclaimed by the CoD in Tobruk and the one proclaimed by the claimant GNC in Tripoli.\n\nThe popular uprising against the government of Gaddafi began in January 2011 as non-violent protests, simultaneously with other protests in the Arab Spring. Within weeks, violence broke out in clashes between police and protesters. In February, the National Transitional Council (NTC) was formed in an effort to consolidate efforts for change in the rule of Libya. Gaddafi forces lost control of several cities in eastern Libya, and a number of officials resigned or defected from his government. In March, Gaddafi forces launched a counteroffensive, and regained many of the cities that had been lost to opposition forces. In mid-March, tanks of Gaddafi forces rolled into the main remaining bastion of the opposition forces, Benghazi. At the same time, aircraft of the French Air Force entered Libyan airspace under the mandate of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, to prevent any attacks on the city. A multinational coalition launched a large scale air-based military intervention to disable the Gaddafi government's military capabilities and enforce the UN Security Council resolution. By the end of March, command of the coalition operations had been assumed by NATO under Operation Unified Protector.\n\nThe following months were characterized by a stalemate on the ground, as opposition fighters were unable to retake cities in western Libya. The stalemate was broken in August as opposition forces advanced on the cities surrounding Tripoli. By the end of August, opposition fighters had captured Tripoli, with little resistance from Gaddafi forces. The opposition then launched a series of campaigns against the last pockets of resistance by Gaddafi loyalists, and in October, Gaddafi and several other leading figures in his government were captured and killed in Gaddafi's hometown of Sirte.\n\nOn 23 October 2011, the National Transitional Council officially declared that Libya had been liberated.\n\nLibya's \"de facto\" Prime Minister, Mahmoud Jibril announced that consultations were under way to form an interim government within one month, followed by elections for a constitutional assembly within eight months and parliamentary and presidential elections to be held within a year after that. Jibril then stepped down to make place for elections and was succeeded as interim Prime Minister by Abdurrahim El-Keib after a brief period in which Jibril's deputy, Ali Tarhouni, had assumed his duties. El-Keib was elected by members of the National Transitional Council, gaining 26 out of 51 votes.\n\nOn 31 October 2011, the United Nations mandate authorizing international military action in Libya was lifted, and NATO's Operation Unified Protector formally ended, in spite of requests by the NTC for military assistance to continue.\n\nOn 22 November 2011, the NTC named its interim government. Osama al-Juwaili, a commander of the military council in Zintan whose forces were responsible for the capture of Saif al-Islam Gaddafi, was named defense minister. Fawzi Abdelali, a militia leader from Misrata, was named interior minister. Ashour Bin Hayal, a diplomat originally from Derna, was named foreign minister. Hassan Ziglam, an oil industry executive, was named finance minister. Ali Hameda Ashour was named justice minister. Abdulrahman Ben Yezza, a former executive with the Italian oil and gas company Eni, was made oil minister.\n\nOn 3 January 2012, Yousef al-Manqoush, a retired general from Misrata, was named head of the Libyan National Army by the NTC.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, it was reported that majority of the NTC members approved a no-confidence motion against Prime Minister Abdurrahim el-Keib citing incompetence as the main reason. However, the president of the NTC denied the news stating that the government would stay until the elections in June.\n\nOn 14 October 2012, Ali Zeidan was elected Prime Minister by a vote of 93 to 85, with two weeks to submit his proposed new government for approval by Congress. Zeidan's cabinet, formed by ministers from the NFA, the JCP, and independents, was approved by Congress on 31 October 2012 and sworn in on 14 November.\n\nIn March 2014, Zeidan was ousted by the GNC. On 4 August 2014, the GNC was replaced by a new Council of Deputies. On 25 August 2014, some members of the former GNC reconvened unilaterally in Tripoli and said they had elected Omar al-Hasi as Prime Minister.\n\nOn 1 January 2012, the NTC released a 15-page draft law that would regulate the election of a national assembly charged with writing a new constitution and forming a second caretaker government. The proposed law laid out more than 20 classes of people who would be prohibited from standing as candidates in the elections, including Libyans who had ties to Muammar Gaddafi, former officials accused of torturing Libyans or embezzling public funds, active members of the Revolutionary Guard, opposition members who made peace with Gaddafi and academics who wrote about Gaddafi's The Green Book. The draft bill also stipulated that 10% of the 200 seats in the constituent assembly would be reserved for women. The finalization of the election law would be followed by the appointment of an election commission to divide the country into constituencies and oversee the poll, to be held in June.\n\nThe Forum of National Parties, an association of 12 moderate Islamist parties, said it rejected the proposed election law because it encouraged voting along tribal lines and gave undue influence to the wealthy. According to Wasila al-Ashiq, head of one of the parties represented in the organization, candidates would have to run as independents under the proposed law because Libya has no law regulating political parties. That would mean that those candidates capable of drawing on tribal power and affiliation would win the seats, she said, while minorities such as the Berbers would be ignored.\n\nOn 28 January 2012, the NTC announced it had adopted a revised version of the electoral bill as law. The proposed 10 percent quota for female members of the constituent assembly was dropped; instead, the law required political parties to have equal numbers of men and women in their candidate lists. Furthermore, the law called for two-thirds of the 200 seats in the constituent assembly - the so-called General National Congress - to go to candidates of political parties, while the remaining seats would be held by independents.\n\nA new law governing the formation of political organisations was passed on by the NTC on 24 April. Political parties based on regional, tribal or religious affiliation were prohibited. Furthermore, parties cannot be an extension of a political party abroad or receive foreign funding.\n\nOn 7 July 2012, Libyans voted in their first parliamentary elections since the end of the rule of Muammar Gaddafi. The election, in which more than 100 political parties had registered, formed an interim 200-member national assembly. The purpose of this assembly was to replace the unelected NTC, name a Prime Minister, and form a committee to draft a constitution. The vote was postponed several times to resolve logistical and technical problems, and to give more time to register to vote, and to vetting candidates.\n\nOn 17 July 2012, the High National Election Commission announced provisional results. Jibril's National Forces Alliance (NFA) received 48.1%, taking 39 out of the 80 party-list seats. This was followed by the Justice and Construction Party (JCP), which received 10.3% and 17 seats and third was the National Front Party with 4.1% and three seats. The Union for the Homeland and the National Centrist Party also took two seats, as did the Wadi Al-Hayah Party for Democracy and Development. Fifteen other parties won one party list seat each. On 8 August 2012, the General National Congress replaced NTC.\n\nSaif al-Islam Gaddafi, his father's \"heir apparent\", was captured near the town of Ubari in the Idehan Ubari by Zintani militiamen on 19 November 2011. His capture was confirmed by the International Criminal Court (ICC), which had issued an arrest warrant for Saif al-Islam Gaddafi and his father during the war. The military council in Zintan said it would hold the Gaddafi son in Zintan until Abdurrahim El-Keib, the incoming Prime Minister of Libya, formed a government it considered capable of taking custody of the high-ranking prisoner.\n\nThe chief prosecutor of the ICC, Luis Moreno-Ocampo, said that he was \"not competing\" with Libyan authorities to prosecute Saif al-Islam Gaddafi and that he was happy for the case to be tried in Libya. The ICC said in a separate statement that it had the \"exclusive competence\" to decide on the continuation of the case before the court, and that if Libyan authorities wish to conduct the prosecutions against Gaddafi in their own country, they must submit a challenge to the admissibility of the case to the ICC.\n\nOn 8 November 2011, a Tunisian court ruled that the former Secretary of the General People's Committee under Gaddafi's government, Baghdadi Mahmudi, should be extradited to Libya. In December, Tunisian interim President Foued Mebazaa said he would not sign a decree to extradite Mahmudi due to fears that he would be subjected to torture if returned to Libya. One of Mahmudi's lawyers reported that Mahmudi's health was \"seriously degraded\" following a hunger strike in his prison. On 6 January 2012, a statement signed by 15 Tunisian and international human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and the Tunisian League for the Defense of Human Rights, called on Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki not to sign the extradition decision ordered by the court.\n\nOn 6 September 2011, Mexican authorities uncovered a plot to smuggle Al-Saadi Gaddafi, one of Muammar Gaddafi's sons wanted by the National Transitional Council on suspicion of war crimes, and some members of his family into the country. On 11 November 2011, Niger's President Mahamadou Issoufou said his government had decided to grant Al-Saadi Gaddafi asylum \"on humanitarian grounds\".\n\nAbdullah al-Senussi, Gaddafi's intelligence chief, was arrested at Nouakchott International Airport in Mauritania upon arrival from Mohammed V International Airport in Casablanca, Morocco, by Mauritanian police on 17 March 2011. France, Libya, and the International Criminal Court have all expressed an interest in trying Senussi.\n\nIn one interpretation of the 2011 Libyan interim Constitutional Declaration, the mandate of the General National Congress (GNC) was to expire on 7 February 2014. However, on 23 December 2013, the GNC had unilaterally decided to extend its mandate through 24 December 2014. Public protests erupted as the GNC failed to stand down on 7 February 2014.\n\nOn 14 February 2014, General Khalifa Haftar appeared in a video broadcast on state TV, declaring the dissolution of the GNC and the formation of a caretaker government committee to oversee new elections. In response, Libyan Prime Minister Ali Zeidan said: \"The GNC is doing its work and so is the government. The army is in its headquarters, and Khalifa Haftar has no authority.\" He also said legal proceedings under military law would be taken against Haftar for his statement.\n\nOn 16 May 2014, Haftar's militia launched a campaign it dubbed \"Operation Dignity\", in an offensive against Benghazi bases of Ansar al-Sharia.\n\nDuring the civil war, brigades of armed volunteers sprang up around the country, reporting to local military councils, which became \"de facto\" local governments. Civilian leaders said that, after the declaration of liberation, the militias shifted from merely delaying the surrender of their weapons to actively asserting a continuing political role as \"guardians of the revolution\". Some of the largest, and most well-equipped brigades were associated with Islamist groups then forming political parties.\n\nReports suggested sporadic clashes between rival militias, and vigilante revenge killings. Civilian residents reported being subjected to looting and robbery by gunmen. In December 2011, a group of armed men dragged Libya's attorney general Abdul-Aziz al-Hassady from his car in broad daylight in Tripoli, threatening to kill him if he didn't release one of their friends who had been arrested on suspicion of murder. Days later, a group of Zintani gunmen attacked the convoy of a top army officer, Gen. Khalifa Haftar, as it was speeding through a checkpoint set up by the group. In a separate incident, gunfire broke out between the army and the Zintan brigade at the Tripoli International Airport. On 16 December 2011, Haftar said an armed group had abducted his son, Belgassim, and detained him at the airport.\n\nWhile initially unwilling to let foreign private security firms operate in Libya, by December the NTC had allowed Western mercenaries to move in to fill the security vacuum around the country. The main focus of the security contractors were oil industry sites. Interim interior minister Fawzi Abdelali stated that the authorities were planning to integrate 50,000 former rebels into the security forces of the defence and interior ministries; over the long term, 200,000 fighters would be rehabilitated. $8 billion were allocated to get the program started.\n\nOn 6 December 2011, Libya's interim government announced that, following consultations with Tripoli's local council, it had given militias lingering in the capital until late December to hand over security to the authorities. Officials said residents of Tripoli would convene rallies in support of the initiative to clear the city of weapons and out-of-town fighters. If militias had not withdrawn by 20 December 2011, the authorities and members of the public intended to close the whole city to traffic. By January 2012, the former rebels had dismantled most of their checkpoints, while some key bases still remained.\n\nIn March 2012, the Secretary-General on the United Nations Support Mission in Libya reported that:\nOn 11 September 2012, 4 Americans, including visiting United States Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens, were killed when the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi came under attack. U.S. officials said heavily armed extremists had laid siege to the consulate using \"military-style tactics\". On 21 September, thousands of demonstrators, along with government police officers, stormed the bases of several Islamist militias in Benghazi, including Ansar al-Sharia, which has been linked to the attack on the U.S. consulate, and forced their members to flee.\n\nOn 9 January 2013, the Libyan Ministry of the Interior reported that the number of murders has risen from 87 in 2010 to 525 in 2012 — a 503% increase —, while thefts over the same period have risen from 143 to 783 — a 448% increase. In September 2013, armed groups were blockading oilfields.\n\nOn 10 October 2013, the Prime Minister of Libya, Ali Zeidan, was briefly captured by an armed group. He was released hours later.\n\nOn 23 August 2014, after 10 days of clashes, Tripoli International Airport fell from government control to fighters from Libyan Central Shield, a coalition of Islamist and Misrata forces. On 25 August 2014, four senior U.S. officials said that Egypt and the United Arab Emirates had \"secretly launched airstrikes against Islamist-allied militias battling for control of Tripoli\" twice in the preceding seven days without informing their military partner, the U.S.\n\nHundreds of suspected Gaddafi supporters have been rounded up by revolutionary brigades, often on the basis of only rumour and accusation. According to a report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, up to 7,000 people, including women and children, are being held in private jails outside the control of the NTC, \"with no access to due process in the absence of a functioning police and judiciary\". Many of the prisoners are being subjected to torture and systematic abuse, and there are reports of \"women held in detention in the absence of female guards and under male supervision, and of children detained alongside adults.\" A large number of the detainees are sub-Saharan Africans, in some cases accused or suspected of being pro-Gaddafi mercenaries, and some individuals were \"being targeted because of the colour of their skin\".\n\nOn 26 January 2012, Doctors Without Borders (MSF) announced that it had suspended its operations in detention centres in Misrata due to detainees there being tortured and denied urgent medical care.\n\nLibyan officials acknowledged that prisoners held by revolutionary forces had been abused, but insisted that the mistreatment had been committed by militias not yet under the control of the new government and that the authorities were trying to eliminate it. A law passed by the NTC ordered militias to refer all cases against Gaddafi supporters to government prosecutors by 1 July 2012.\n\nAccording to the UN, about 8,000 people were still being held in Libya's detention centres as of October 2013.\n\nOn 31 October 2011, the United Nations Security Council expressed concern over the proliferation of weapons from Gaddafi's stockpiles, worrying they could fall into the hands of al-Qaeda and other militant groups. Officials of the NTC said it was not clear how many weapons were still in circulation.\n\nA report by the United Nations Support Mission in Libya said that Gaddafi's government had accumulated a large stockpile of MANPADs, and that although thousands were destroyed during the 2011 military intervention in Libya, there were \"increasing concerns over the looting and likely proliferation of these portable defence systems, as well as munitions and mines, highlighting the potential risk to local and regional stability.\"\n\nIn November, a convoy loaded with heavy weaponry was intercepted when trying to cross from Libya into neighboring Niger, according to Nigerien security officials. The officials said the convoy was composed of loyalists of Muammar Gaddafi. Mokhtar Belmokhtar, believed to be one of the leaders of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, acknowledged that his Al-Qaeda franchise had acquired weaponry from Gaddafi's arsenal.\n\nIn August, Abdelhakim Belhadj was appointed commander of the Tripoli Military Council, a grouping of several brigades of rebels involved in taking the capital. Belhadj was the emir of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group. In 2004, he was taken into custody by the CIA and rendered to the Libyan government at the time, who held him in the Abu Salim prison for seven years, where he claims to have been subjected to torture. Rival commanders in the uprising complained that Belhadj has close ties to the Qatari monarchy.\n\nAli al-Sallabi, an Islamist cleric, who lived in Doha for four years, was a key conduit for weapons, vehicles and funds from Qatar to the Libyan rebels during the civil war. Rebel commanders outside of Sallabi's circle openly complained that they lacked weapons and medical supplies, leading NTC's head of government, Mahmoud Jibril, to send an envoy to Doha to lobby for weapons and supplies to be sent through him. But of the 18 plane loads from Qatar, only five were sent through this NTC-approved channel. This led NTC and Western officials to raise concerns that the Qatari seemed to be aiding primarily Islamist leaders at the expense of the NTC. Sallabi, who is well known as an Islamic scholar and orator in Libya, announced the formation of a party based on Islamic principles. The Freedom and Justice Party was also founded on such principles.\n\nFollowing the end of Gaddafi's rule, there were reports of attacks against sites of Sufi Muslims. In late 2011, a Sufi school in Tripoli was stormed by armed men who \"burned its library, destroyed office equipment and dug up graves of sages buried there,\" and \"turned the school into a Salafi mosque.\" In August 2012, several Sufi sites were heavily damaged or destroyed, including the tomb of Abd As-Salam Al-Asmar in Zliten and the mausoleum of Abdullah Al-Sha'ab in Tripoli. Three United Nations Independent Experts condemned the destruction of Sufi religious and historic sites in various parts of the country, and Human Rights Watch said the Libyan government had \"failed both to protect sites sacred to Libyan Muslims who follow Sufi practices and to arrest those who have destroyed the tombs.\" On 26 August, Libyan interior minister Fawzi Abdel A'al resigned in protest at criticism from the General National Congress over his handling of the violence in the country, though the resignation was subsequently withdrawn.\n\nIn July 2014, Ansar al-Sharia said it had seized complete control of Benghazi and that the city had now become \"an Islamic emirate\". By October 2014, the group had also declared an \"Islamic emirate\" in the eastern city of Derna and pledged allegiance to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).\n\nIn the months following the Libyan uprising, the Sahel region saw thousands of combatants originating from Mali and Niger, mostly ethnic Tuareg who supported either Gaddafi or the NTC, returning from Libya to their respective countries with a wide range of weapons. Mali's defence minister, Natie Plea, said that the risk of organizations such as Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) seizing the arsenal for terrorist purposes was \"a real source of concern\" for countries in the desert sub-region. The head of the United Nations Office for West Africa stated that the UN also was concerned about the impact of the Libyan crisis on countries in the Sahel. Algeria's secret service warned that AQIM had planned a \"wave of abductions\" of Westerners in the wake of the instability in North Africa following the Arab Spring. On 23 November 2011, two French nationals were kidnapped in northern Mali. On 25 November 2011, a Dutchman, a South African and a Swede were abducted and a German citizen killed in a raid in Timbuktu. AQIM claimed responsibility for both of the incidents. British Foreign Secretary William Hague acknowledged that the revolution in Libya had affected the security situation of the Sahel. EU foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton said the EU had earmarked 150 million euros ($200 million) to support security efforts \"covering, as a priority, Mauritania, Mali and Niger.\"\n\nOn 28 November 2011, Tunisian customs officers stopped three cars at the Ras Ajdir border crossing, two of which carried contraband. Relatives of the smuggler retaliated by burning tires in front of the Ben Gardane town hall, spreading concern in the city and requiring national and regional officials to intervene. On 30 November 2011, a group of Libyans on the Tunisian side of the border crossing assisted several vehicles loaded with contraband cross into Libya. A Tunisian policeman failed an attempt to stop the vehicles and was attacked and threatened with a firearm, an eyewitness reported. Border police went on strike in protest of the lack of security and the Tunisian Armed Forces decided to close the border crossing indefinitely. The Tunisian foreign ministry voiced \"deep concern\" over the infringements of the country's territorial integrity and urged Libya to increase security at the border post. Abdelhakim Belhadj of the Tripoli Military Council expressed deep regret over the disorder at the Ras Ajdir border crossing and strongly condemned \"any attack that violates the sanctity of Tunisian soil.\"\n\nIn mid-January 2012, the Malian military clashed with the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad in Aguelhok, Ménaka, and Tessalit in northern Mali, losing at least one soldier to several Tuareg militants in the process of repulsing the rebels' attack. A statement by the Malian government said the assailants \"included forces that returned from Libya\". In March, the Malian government of Amadou Toumani Touré was ousted in a coup by Malian soldiers over its handling of the insurgency in the country. In June 2013, a peace agreement was signed between the government and Tuareg militants, after intervention in the conflict by the French Armed Forces.\n\nBy December 2011, the NTC were facing protests in Benghazi over the pace of reforms and lack of transparency in the new Libyan government. Protesters were criticizing the NTC and its chairman Mustafa Abdul Jalil and demanding that former Gaddafi supporters would be excluded from governing posts in the new Libyan state. Jalil called for patience and promised that personal details and official information of all government officials would be published publicly on the Internet in time.\n\nOn 19 January 2012, the vice president of the NTC, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, was surrounded and jostled by a mob of protesters at the University of Benghazi where he was attending a memorial ceremony for those killed during the civil war. He escaped unharmed. Witnesses said the crowd accused him of opportunism due to his belated defection from Gaddafi's government. The NTC responded to the incident by saying \"every attack or aggression against the National Transitional Council represents an attack on the sovereignty of the Libyan people and its glorious revolution.\" On 22 January 2012, Ghoga resigned from the NTC, saying he did not want the \"atmosphere of hatred\" to affect the council and its performance.\n\nOn 21 January 2012, hundreds of protesters, including many young men wounded from the civil war, stormed the NTC's headquarters in Benghazi, protesting the speed of reforms and lack of transparency from the interim government. When the head of the NTC, Mustafa Abdul Jalil, appeared to address the crowd, the protesters began throwing empty plastic bottles at him, prompting security forces to fire tear gas. Before storming the headquarters, protesters threw stones and metal bars at the building, breaking its windows. Jalil is believed to have been pulled to safety after he went back into the building.\n\nOn 1 July 2012, protesters calling for an autonomous eastern region stormed the headquarters of the national election commission in Benghazi.\n\nDuring the civil war, many Tuareg nomad tribes in southern Libya supported Gaddafi because of his past support of their people's rebellions in Mali and Niger. This led to tensions between Tuareg and Arab Libyans, and in the aftermath of the war, the NTC sent out delegations to mediate disputes and reconcile the region with the interim government. The tribes, who roam Libya's vast desert expanses, are important to security in the region's remote areas, which are often exploited as a safe haven by drug traffickers and Islamist militants.\n\nFathi Ben Khalifa, president of the World Amazigh Congress, criticized the NTC for not formally recognizing the Berber people, saying that his people is experiencing a \"déjà vu feeling\", as Libya's rulers also failed to recognize the Berbers when the country gained its independence in 1951, making way for Gaddafi's policies of assimilation. Khalifa claims that the NTC is adhering to \"Arab and Islamist\" ideologies that caused \"much of what has happened in [Libya] for the last decades\", and that the council envisions the new Libya being rooted in an exclusively Islamic constitution. According to Khalifa, \"no [Berber] will accept this situation\".\n\nSmaller tribal groups complained they had been neglected in the interim government announced by the NTC on 22 November 2011. Members of the Benghazi-based Awagi and Maghariba tribes protested that their representatives were not selected for key posts. A group calling itself the Libyan Amazigh Congress called for a suspension of relations with the NTC until it \"reconciles with the demands of Amazigh Libyans.\"\n\nOn June 23, 2013, the General National Congress elected Nouri Abusahmain, a political independent from the Berber minority, as its new president.\n\nAli al-Sallabi, a well-known Muslim cleric who played a key role in funneling arms from Qatar to the anti-Gaddafi fighters during the civil war, has announced the formation of a party with the provisional name National Gathering for Freedom, Justice and Development. According to Sallabi, the party is not Islamist, but respects the general principles of Islam and Libyan culture. Sallabi would not oppose Hamas' armed struggle against Israel and supports the lifting of laws banning polygamy. The party has the backing of the head of the Tripoli Military Council, Abdelhakim Belhadj, as well as \"tribal leaders and members of the National Transitional Council\".\n\nOn 17 November 2011, the Muslim Brotherhood held its first public conference on Libyan soil in Benghazi after having been banned for decades under Gaddafi's government. Suleiman Abdelkader, leader of the Libyan Muslim Brotherhood, said that rebuilding the country \"is not a task for one group or one party but for everyone, based on their ability.\" He also said his organization would not take part in the interim government.\n\nOn 9 January 2012, a group of Libyan Muslim scholars announced the formation of a new Islamist party by the name Party of Reform and Development. A statement from the group said the party was an \"Islamist party committed to the principles of Islamic sharia\", aiming to work for establishing a state based on institutions. The chairman of the party, Khaled al-Wershefani, said the group aimed \"to focus on national unity and build a Libyan state which is modern, civilized and developed and which does not exclude or marginalize anyone.\" He added that the party would refuse to deal with any group which \"contradicts sharia,\" referring to the secular and liberal factions in Libya.\n\nThe National Transitional Council adopted laws in early May 2012 granting immunity to former rebel fighters for acts committed during the civil war, confiscating all former regime assets, criminalising \"praising or glorifying\" Muammar Gaddafi or his regime, and barring criticism of the revolution or the authority of the Libyan government. It also decreed that detained fighters must be charged and tried by 12 July 2012 or else released. It was not immediately clear whether the laws would govern the transitional period only or would else be permanent. Law 37, which prohibits criticism of the revolution and publication of \"propaganda\", including vocal support for Gaddafi's family or the ideas of the \"Green Book\", is reportedly based on provisions of the Gaddafi-era penal code banning criticism of the 1969 coup that brought Gaddafi to power. The law has faced criticism from Human Rights Watch (HRW) and other NGOs, and a group of Libyan human rights lawyers has vowed to oppose it before the Supreme Court, HRW said. On 15 June 2012, the Supreme Court nullified the law.\n\nOn 19 October 2011, the NTC became the first government in the world to recognize the Syrian National Council (SNC) as Syria's \"legitimate authority.\" In November, the Libyan authorities met secretly with members of the SNC and offered them money, arms and, potentially, volunteer fighters for the insurgency against the Syrian government. Abdelhakim Belhadj, head of the Tripoli Military Council, met with leaders of the Free Syrian Army to discuss sending Libyan fighters to train the army's troops. By December, thousands of refugees fleeing the escalating violence in Syria were seeking shelter in Libya.\n\nOn 25 November, NTC chairman Mustafa Abdul Jalil met with the President of Sudan, Omar al-Bashir, thanking the country for its support of the rebels during the civil war. The Sudanese government supplied the Libyan rebels with arms and ammunition during the uprising. Jalil vowed to establish ties with Sudan in all fields and promised \"high-level security cooperation\" with the country.\n\nOn 16 January 2012, Egypt's military ruler Hussein Tantawi arrived on an official visit to Tripoli.\n\nOn 29 December 2011, Libya's National Oil Corporation (NOC) announced that the country's output of crude oil had risen to over 1 million barrels per day (bpd), compared to 1.6 million bpd before the uprising. Libya's biggest oil terminal, Es Sider, resumed operations as of January 2012 but may take more than a year to be fully repaired.\n\nNOC has said that local crude and product needs are given priority. Of Libya's total crude distillation capacity of 378,000 bpd, the country's five domestic refineries are refining 160,000 bpd of current production. Libya's largest refinery, Ra's Lanuf Refinery, is expected to remain offline until the end of the year.\n\nThe International Energy Agency said the bulk of repairs to oil infrastructure had been undertaken by local petroleum industry staff, but many of the repairs would have to be performed by foreign specialists working for the international oil companies. Most oil companies have deployed small teams to restart production. NOC said it had taken over full control of marketing Libyan oil, which split during the civil war, and that all future deals would give preference to actors who had shown early support during the uprising.\n\nThe Libyan interior ministry reported on 3 May 2012 that the oil fields were operating in a normal fashion and the production was good. He added that the production of oil had reached 1.55 million barrels per day the previous week, almost pre-war levels. However, by September 2013, armed groups were blockading oilfields, cutting production to about 100,000 barrels per day, leading to some fuel shortages and blackouts. Many in the armed groups were current and former employees of units set up to secure the oilfields, reacting to corruption and low pay.\n\nIn September 2014 there were armed clashes near the El Sharara oil field and the Zawiya refinery. After armed opposition groups took control of Tripoli, a rival oil minister, Mashallah al-Zawie, gave a speech at the oil ministry.\n\nAt the beginning of the civil war, the UN Security Council froze an estimated $150 billion in foreign Libyan assets. By late November 2011, $18 billion had been released to the NTC by the council's sanctions committee. $3 billion had been made available to the new Libyan government.\n\nMeanwhile, demands for wages, medication and reconstruction were putting a strain on Libya's limited supply of cash, causing prices to rise. On 10 December 2011, senior figures in Libya's new leadership wrote a letter to the United Nations, urging it to release the frozen assets which they said were \"essential for the economic stability of Libya\". Western officials said legal complications prevented the money from being released quickly. A British Foreign Office minister said his administration would release Libyan assets frozen in the United Kingdom once Libyan authorities demonstrated their ability to manage them effectively.\n\nOn 16 December 2011, the UN Security Council lifted sanctions on Libya's central bank and its offshore subsidiary, Libyan Foreign Bank. Later the same day, the U.S. Treasury Department said it had unblocked more than $30 billion in Libyan government assets.\n"}
{"id": "38149325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38149325", "title": "Belfast City Hall flag protests", "text": "Belfast City Hall flag protests\n\nOn 3 December 2012, Belfast City Council voted to limit the days that the Union Flag (the flag of the United Kingdom) flies from Belfast City Hall. Since 1906, the flag had been flown every day of the year. The vote means that it will now be flown no more than 18 days a year, in line with British government guidelines regarding government buildings. The move to limit the number of days was backed by the council's Irish nationalists and the Alliance Party; it was opposed by the unionist councillors.\n\nAs a response, Ulster loyalists held street protests throughout Northern Ireland. They see the Council's decision as part of a wider 'cultural war' against 'Britishness' in Northern Ireland. On the night of the vote, protesters tried to storm City Hall. Throughout December and January, protests were held almost daily and most involved the protesters blocking roads while carrying Union Flags and banners. Some of these protests led to clashes between loyalists and the police, sparking riots. Rioters attacked police with petrol bombs, bricks, stones and fireworks; police responded with plastic bullets and water cannon. Alliance Party offices and the homes of Alliance Party members were attacked, while Belfast City Councillors were sent death threats. According to police, some of the violence was orchestrated by high-ranking members of the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) and Ulster Defence Association (UDA). Loyalists also put up thousands of Union flags in public places, which has further heightened tension.\n\nAfter February 2013, the protests have been smaller and less frequent, and have led to greater loyalist protests about related issues, such as restrictions on traditional loyalist marches.\n\nSince the formation of Northern Ireland in 1921, there has been tension and violence between its two main religious groups. Unionists/Ulster loyalists (who are mostly Ulster Protestant) generally want Northern Ireland to remain within the United Kingdom, while Irish nationalists/republicans (who are mostly Catholic) generally want it to leave the United Kingdom and join a united Ireland. The former generally identify with the Union Flag, while the latter generally do not and instead identify with the Irish tricolour.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, flags are often used as symbols of political allegiance, cultural identity, and to mark territory. The flying of flags is an issue in Northern Ireland, and flying certain flags in certain places can be highly controversial. There have been many protests and clashes involving flags and symbols over the years. In 1964 there were riots after a republican election candidate put an Irish tricolour (which was then illegal) in the window of his office on the Falls Road, Belfast. The unionist Minister of Home Affairs, responding to pressure from hardliners, ordered police to remove the flag. This sparked fierce clashes between republicans and the police.\n\nBelfast City Council had long been dominated by unionists, mainly the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Ulster Unionist Party (UUP). However, in May 2011 Irish nationalists (Sinn Féin and the Social Democratic and Labour Party) won more seats than unionists for the first time. The middle-ground Alliance Party held the balance of power on the council. Nationalist councillors wanted the Union Jack taken down permanently, and unionist councillors wanted it to keep flying all year. Alliance put forward a compromise: that it would fly on 18 designated days, in line with UK government policy on the flying of the union flag from UK government buildings, which is followed by many city and local governments in Britain. At Parliament Buildings (or Stormont), where the Northern Ireland Assembly meets, the Union Jack is only flown on 15 designated days. The nationalist and Alliance councillors voted in favour of this compromise and it was passed.\n\nIn the weeks leading up to the vote, the DUP had printed and distributed over 40,000 leaflets in East Belfast, with help from the UUP. The leaflets attacked Alliance and called on people to protest against its proposal. Alliance accused the unionists of trying to raise tensions. In the May 2010 general election, Naomi Long of Alliance had defeated Peter Robinson of the DUP to win the East Belfast seat. This was the first time that a non-unionist party had won the seat. It is thought that many unionists voted for Alliance as a protest at Robinson's financial misdealings. Some commentators believed that the DUP had been waiting for a chance to weaken the Alliance Party and win back their former voters in East Belfast.\n\nDuring the middle of 2012, particularly in September, heightened tensions led to the 2012 North Belfast riots.\n\nThe unionist protesters see the change as an \"attack on their cultural identity\". In December 2012 and early 2013 they held almost daily street protests throughout Northern Ireland. Most involved the protesters blocking roads while carrying Union Flags and banners. Some of these protests led to clashes between protesters and the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), sparking riots. Attacks were made on Alliance Party offices and the homes of Alliance Party members, while Belfast City councillors were sent death threats. Unlike the Irish nationalist parties, Alliance has offices in loyalist areas. According to police, some of the violence has been orchestrated by high-ranking members of the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) and Ulster Defence Association (UDA). These are the two main loyalist paramilitary groups, who waged armed campaigns during the Troubles but declared ceasefires in 1994. The \"Belfast Telegraph\" claimed that some of the violence has been fuelled by youngsters engaging in \"recreational rioting\". There was also a rise in sectarian attacks on Catholic churches by loyalist militants, which some have linked to the flag protests.\n\nThe cost of policing the protests has been estimated at £20 million (up to 7 March 2013).\n\nOn the evening of 3 December, hundreds of protesters gathered outside City Hall as the debate and vote was being held. Minutes after the vote, protesters broke into the back courtyard and tried to force open the doors of the building. Two security staff and a press photographer were injured, and windows of cars in the courtyard were smashed. Protesters then clashed with the police, injuring 15 officers. The Chief Superintendent said:\n\nOn 4 December, Alliance Party councillor Laura McNamee was forced to move from her east Belfast home after receiving threats. On 5 December, up to 1,500 protesters gathered in Carrickfergus. The protest became violent and police responded by firing plastic bullets. The rioters ransacked an Alliance Party office and tried to set it on fire. The home of Michael and Christine Bower, Alliance councillors in Bangor, was attacked.\n\nThere were clashes between protesters and police in Belfast and Newtownabbey on 7 December; police responded with water cannons. Death threats were sent to Naomi Long, Alliance's MP for Belfast East in the House of Commons. She described it as a \"wanton attack on the democratic process\". Bullets were sent to her, David Ford, local councillor Gerardine Mulvenna, Gerry Kelly and Alex Maskey. The home and car of an Alliance councillor in Newtownards were attacked, with most of the windows being smashed. Speaking on a radio show that morning, Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) politician Basil McCrea went against his party's policy and said he agreed with the flag vote. Other party members demanded the party take action against him.\n\nUp to 2,000 protesters gathered at Belfast City Hall on 8 December. The crowd was addressed by former British National Party (BNP) fundraiser Jim Dowson. Also present were Progressive Unionist Party (PUP) leader Billy Hutchinson and Ulster Defence Association (UDA) commander Jackie McDonald. Some of the protesters burnt an Irish tricolour. There were minor clashes with police after the rally.\n\nOn 10 December, a gang of men attacked a police car guarding Naomi Long's office in east Belfast. They smashed the window and threw in a petrol bomb while a policewoman was still inside, but she escaped unharmed. There was rioting in east and south Belfast. In Armagh, protesters attacked a pub owned by the husband of a Sinn Féin councillor. The windows were smashed and rocket fireworks thrown inside. Later, three men were hurt in a hit-and-run at a protest nearby.\n\nThere were two large demonstrations at City Hall on 15 December. In response to the violence, several hundred held a \"peace vigil\" in which they linked arms and encircled the building. Later, up to 1,000 loyalists with Union Flags blocked the roads in front of the building. About 80 protests were held in Northern Ireland on 17 December. Police were attacked in south Belfast, where loyalists blocked a road near the City Hospital with a burning barricade and tried to hijack vehicles. At a protest in Portadown, a man was hurt in a road accident. At Carrickfergus town hall, protesters disrupted a meeting of the council and threatened councillors. Alliance councillor Noel Williams called it \"a full frontal attack on democracy\".\n\nEach night from 3–8 January, the protests led to clashes between loyalists and police in East Belfast. Rioters threw petrol bombs, fireworks, bricks, stones and bottles; police responded with plastic bullets and water cannon. According to the \"Belfast Telegraph\", much of the East Belfast violence was being directed by a few high-ranking members of the UVF East Belfast Brigade. They allegedly ignored orders from the UVF leadership to stop the violence. Police sources said that the East Belfast Brigade leader could have stopped the rioting if he wished. Ten officers were injured on the first night. On 4 January, attempts were made to hijack cars and buses. In Newtownabbey, masked men broke into commercial premises and stole money. On 5 January, shots were fired at police during clashes in east Belfast. Loyalists claimed that trouble began when they came under attack from the Short Strand, an Irish nationalist enclave. The next night, loyalists protested near the Short Strand and then clashed with police nearby.\n\nOn 7 January, Belfast City Council met for the first time since the vote was passed. The PSNI closed roads around City Hall while loyalists protested outside. The protesters called for the decision to be reversed. About 400 people had gathered near the city hall for a peaceful protest for the first time since the vote as a result of a call through social media. As protesters passed the Short Strand on their return to East Belfast, clashes again broke out between the protesters and nationalist residents. When police tried to disperse the crowds, they were attacked with petrol bombs, fireworks, bricks and bottles. Officers and their vehicles were also attacked with hatchets and sledge hammers. They responded with plastic bullets and water cannon. On 9 January, the Union Jack was raised at the city hall for the first time since the vote in commemoration of Catherine Middleton's birthday. The first meeting of the 'Unionist Forum' took place on 10 January. It was set up by the DUP and UUP to address the flag protests and other concerns among unionists.\n\nOn 11 January, protesters blocked roads in Belfast, Bangor, Newtownards, Dundonald and Clough. There was rioting in Newtownabbey and Carrickfergus. Petrol bombs, fireworks and stones were thrown at police, who responded with plastic bullets and water cannons; four PSNI officers were injured as a result of the rioting. A press photographer who was covering the riot in Newtownabbey was robbed at knifepoint, while a bus was set alight in the same area and a car was hijacked in north Belfast. Translink suspended almost all its bus services in Belfast. There were also protests in Glasgow and Liverpool.\n\nOn 12 January 1,000 loyalists gathered at City Hall carrying Union Jacks and \"No Surrender\" banners. As protesters marched back to East Belfast, police tried to divert them away from Short Strand. However, \"the vast majority\" took an unapproved route and some then donned masks and attacked police. As they passed Short Strand, there were clashes between the loyalists and nationalists and bricks were thrown at houses. Police came under \"heavy and sustained\" attack after moving in to deal with the rioters; 29 officers were injured. Officers responded with plastic bullets and water cannon. Sinn Féin's Short Strand councillor Niall Ó Donnghaile said that this was the 15th illegal loyalist march past Short Strand that month alone.\n\nThe next day over 1,000 people held another \"peace rally\" outside City Hall. The protesters clapped, cheered, whistled, and banged drums for five minutes as a show of \"anti-silence\", saying that it represents \"the silent majority\" opposed to the violence. Later, about 200 loyalists blocked Albertbridge Road and Castlereagh Street, while a line of riot police separated them from a crowd that had gathered at Short Strand. Some missiles were thrown but there was no serious trouble.\n\nThe rioting of 14 January began when masked loyalist protesters petrol bombed Catholic homes around St Matthew's Church, at the edge of Short Strand. Jim Wilson, a loyalist community worker, confirmed that youths from his community had started the violence. Niall Ó Donnghaile called it a \"blatant, well planned and organised sectarian attack ... It is an attempt by unionists to intimidate a small Catholic community\". St Matthew's church hall was hosting a social event for children with special needs, but had to be evacuated. Wilson said a crowd of nationalists arrived after the first missiles were thrown and some attacked Protestant homes in retaliation. When police arrived, the loyalists threw dozens of petrol bombs at police jeeps, three of which caught fire. A bus driver was also hurt when his vehicle was stoned.\n\nOn 17 January, leaflets were distributed to homes in East Belfast, where much of the rioting had taken place, calling for the violence to end. The move was backed by church groups, community groups, and loyalist paramilitary groups; including the UVF, UDA, and Red Hand Commando (RHC).\n\nOn 18 January, protesters pelted police at a protest in Ballyclare, leading to two arrests.\n\nOn 19 January, several hundred loyalists attended the weekly Saturday protest at Belfast City Hall. There was no trouble as they passed the nationalist Short Strand, but later three people were arrested and two charged with disorderly behaviour following trouble in the Albertbridge Road area.\n\nOn 20 January, about 150 loyalists held a protest in Derry outside a concert featuring Derry singers like Nadine Coyle and Phil Coulter to mark the start of Derry's year as the 2013 UK City of Culture. Police largely contained the protest, but about 30 people got onto the road for a short time and blocked traffic. Two people were arrested, although the concert suffered no disruption. The following day, 11 arrests were made during flag protests across Northern Ireland. Three were arrested in Derry's Waterside area for offences including disorderly behaviour and obstructing a highway. The other eight arrests were in East Belfast on suspicion of blocking a highway.\n\nIn Newtownabbey on 25 January, loyalists threw petrol bombs, stones and fireworks at police following a flag protest there. A batch of petrol bombs was seized by police. Elsewhere in Northern Ireland, a demonstration which applied to the Parades Commission took place in Castlederg, where 350 people and six bands attended. In Belfast, several roads were blocked by protesters.\n\nOn 26 January, several hundred loyalists held a protest outside Belfast City Hall, and a number of protesters later blocked several roads in East Belfast. A man was later arrested and charged with assaulting police, disorderly behaviour, obstructing traffic and resisting arrest. First Minister Peter Robinson attended a meeting with loyalist leaders as well as local church and community representatives at the Skainos Centre in East Belfast. When leaving, he was heckled by a small crowd of loyalists and his car was struck by a flag pole.\n\nOn 27 January, several hundred loyalists held a peaceful protest in Derry's Waterside area, with Willie Frazer of Families Acting for Innocent Relatives (FAIR) and Henry Reilly of UKIP in attendance.\n\nOn 16 February, an IFA Premiership match at Seaview between Crusaders F.C. and Cliftonville F.C. was called off due to a loyalist protest outside the stadium.\n\nOn 27 February, prominent loyalist activist Willie Frazer and flag protest organiser Jamie Bryson were arrested by the PSNI as part of their investigation into the flag protests. On 1 March, Jim Dowson was also arrested for his role in the protests. He was later released on bail.\n\nOn 2 March, 150 loyalists turned up for the weekly protest outside Belfast City Hall. However, unlike previous demonstrations, protesters were bussed to City Hall rather than marching. PSNI assistant police constable Will Kerr said this represented a \"sea change\".\n\nOn 4 March, loyalist protesters, angered by the arrest of loyalist activist Willie Frazer, interrupted a meeting of the Northern Ireland Assembly.\n\nThere was a further riot in Newtownabbey on 8 March, when up to 100 flag protesters attacked police with bricks and bottles. A car was also burnt and the office of Alliance leader David Ford was attacked. Five police officers were injured.\n\nOn 14 March, a small loyalist protest was held outside a new leisure centre in Bangor as it was being visited by Sinn Féin's Carál Ní Chuilín. The same day, a man was charged with sending three hoax bomb warnings by detectives investigating offences linked to the flag protests.\n\nOn 17 March, Saint Patrick's Day, a PSNI officer was injured during rioting in South Belfast. The riot reportedly started when loyalists tried to hold a protest outside pubs in Shaftesbury Square, but were pushed back to Donegall Road by police. Masked loyalists burnt bins on the road and attacked police with bricks and bottles. The following day, a St Patrick's Day parade in Omagh was re-routed after \"a huge number\" of Union Flags were put up along part of the planned route. Irish nationalist councillors said the flags undermined the plan for a neutral and inclusive parade.\n\nOn 20 April, Belfast City Council rejected a DUP proposal to fly the Union Flag every day on the Belfast Cenotaph in the grounds of City Hall. Unionist councillors voted in favour of the proposal but Irish nationalist and Alliance councillors voted against it. The Royal British Legion was also against the proposal, saying it did not want the cenotaph to become politicized.\n\nOn 24 April, Willie Frazer and Jim Dowson launched a new unionist party known as the Protestant Coalition at the La Mon Hotel near Belfast.\n\nOn 1 May, the DUP officially abandoned its campaign to have the Union Flag flown every day on the cenotaph of Belfast City Hall. A small group of loyalist protesters gathered outside City Hall but there was no trouble. A few days later, the DUP's Sammy Wilson—Northern Ireland's Minister of Finance—ordered that the Union Flag be flown from all government buildings run by the Department of Finance. The move could cost up to £10,000 and was criticized by Sinn Féin, the SDLP and the Alliance Party.\n\nOn 13 June, lawyers of a nationalist resident in East Belfast informed the High Court that the PSNI allowed loyalist protesters to stage illegal marches through Belfast City Centre for up to three months, and that all those involved in the marches should have been\narrested.\n\nOn 15 June, around 100 loyalists held the now-weekly loyalist flag protest outside Belfast City Hall, which coincided with a large anti-G8 march taking place in the city centre. According to the PUP's Billy Hutchinson, some loyalist protesters felt that the G8 rally was \"anti British\". Many loyalists booed and jeered whilst speeches were made during the anti-G8 rally.\n\nOn 24 June, Belfast City Council voted to raise the armed forces flag on Belfast City Hall for six days after a request from the Ministry of Defence. The Alliance Party and unionist parties voted in favour of the motion, whilst nationalist parties such as Sinn Féin voted against the issue.\n\nOn 6 August, the Lord Mayor of Belfast, Sinn Féin councillor Máirtín Ó Muilleoir was attacked by a large crowd of loyalists during the reopening of Woodvale Park, forcing the event to be abandoned. The mayor had to be escorted from the park by police and the crowd jostled and heckled him whilst throwing missiles at police. He was taken to the Royal Victoria Hospital for a check-up following the incident. Nine PSNI officers were injured.\n\nOn 21 September, in one of the largest Union Flag protests seen in Belfast since January, more than 3,000 loyalists took part in a march organised by Loyalist Peaceful Protesters. 1,000 loyalists initially gathered at Belfast City Hall, but the march began later than agreed and was thus in breach of a Parades Commission ruling. The number of loyalists in the march grew from 1,000 to 3,000 as it passed through the strongly loyalist Shankill Road area of West Belfast before ending in the Woodvale area of North Belfast. The parade passed off with no incidents.\n\nOn 12 October, \"Irish News\" editor Noel Doran addressed the PUP annual conference, telling the conference that loyalists had \"got it wrong\" over the flag protests, and that what they were opposing was a democratic decision. He also said that loyalists could learn from organisations like the Gaelic Athletic Association when it came to issues like community pride and reaching out.\n\nOn 14 October, First Minister Peter Robinson urged loyalists planning large demonstrations leading up to the Christmas period to think about the possible consequences protests would have on business and jobs.\n\nOn 17 November, an Alliance Party office in East Belfast was petrol bombed by loyalists. The Alliance Party's East Belfast MP Naomi Long condemned the attack as \"an attack on democracy\".\n\nOn 30 November, 1,500 loyalists marched in the city centre to mark one year since Belfast City Council's vote on the Union Flag. The march broke a Parades Commission ruling that it had to leave the city centre by 12:30pm. The march was mostly peaceful, but two PSNI officers were hurt and a man was arrested during scuffles at Crumlin Road.\n\nPrime Minister of the United Kingdom David Cameron condemned the protests, saying \"violence is absolutely unjustified in those and in other circumstances.\" MP Naomi Long said that Northern Ireland is facing \"an incredibly volatile and extremely serious situation\". She also called on Cameron to intervene after a police car outside her office was firebombed with a policewoman escaping injury in early December. On 13 January, she said that the party had no regrets in its decision to limit the days the Union Jack would fly over the city hall. First Minister Peter Robinson said on 13 January that the political process was the only way forward in developing cordial relations. \"We took some difficult decisions, some might say historic decisions to build a shared society in Northern Ireland. I think it is important to tell the wider community in Northern Ireland and our friends in the rest of the United Kingdom that we are not giving up on that. We are very much of the view that we are determined that we build the kind of society where everybody can have a peaceful and stable existence.\" He and Deputy First Minister Martin McGuinness were due to meet the British and Irish governments the following week and that Robinson would make it \"very clear\" about the condemnation of the wider Northern Ireland community for the violence. Robinson added that Northern Ireland's international image was getting damaged by the violence.\n\nIn early January 2013, Willie Frazer said that he and a group of loyalists planned to hold a protest outside the Irish parliament building, Leinster House, in Dublin and \"sarcastically\" ask for the Irish flag to be taken down. Frazer said \"it's a tongue-in-cheek gesture. It's to give Irish people a sense of how we feel. I would be very offended if I was living in Ireland and someone came and asked me to take the flag down. That’s exactly how we feel in Belfast. People keep telling us we're still part of the UK, yet here we are without a flag\". In 2006, a march in Dublin, organised by Love Ulster, had sparked riots. The Progressive Unionist Party's Billy Hutchinson condemned the clashes, while his colleague, Phil Hamilton, criticised the PSNI for not deploying enough officers to the Short Strand area on 12 January to prevent violence. The UDA's Jimmy Birch told the \"BBC\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"Radio Ulster\": \"Every time they call a tune, we take to the streets. We are wrecking our own areas, we fight with the police, we are burning our own cars and we stop our own people going to work and disrupt our own people's way of life. It is wrong, we need to step back and we need to stop being predictable.\"\n\nThe PSNI's Chief Constable Matt Baggott blamed the violence on the UVF for \"orchestrating violence for their own selfish motives. Everyone involved needs to step back. The lack of control is very worrying. The only answer is a political solution. [Otherwise this] will eat into our ability to deal with drugs, into our ability to deal with alcohol issues, and deal with what is a very severe dissident threat.\"\n\nUnited States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton called for an end to the protests during a trip to Belfast on 7 December,\n\nIn September 2013, business representatives in Belfast revealed that the flag protests had resulted in losses totaling £50 million in the year to July 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55061854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55061854", "title": "Börklüce Mustafa", "text": "Börklüce Mustafa\n\nBörklüce Mustafa was one of the principal disciples of Sheikh Bedreddin. He lived around the turn of the 14th/15th centuries, and preached a system that can be compared to modern Communism. Between 1415–1416 he gathered Turkmen peasants, Greek sailors and Jewish merchants on the Karaburun peninsula in order to rebel against high taxes and other injustices.\n\nBörklüce Mustafa's life is relatively obscure, and well into the 20th century scarcely covered by scholarship, except in the context of his mentor, Sheikh Bedreddin. The main primary account on his activities is that of the Byzantine historian Doukas, along with a few scattered references in other sources. As a result, not even his name is certain, \"Börklüce Mustafa\" being but one of the suggested original names for Doukas' Hellenized rendering Περκλιτζία Μουσταφᾶ.\n\nMustafa himself possibly hailed from Samos Island, since a Cretan hermit on Chios maintained to Doukas that he had known Mustafa, who was then living as a hermit or dervish on that island. Eventually, Mustafa was won over by the teachings of Sheikh Bedreddin, a supporter of Musa Çelebi during the Ottoman Interregnum, who had been exiled by Sultan Mehmed I to Iznik.\n\nMustafa however moved beyond his master in his efforts to approach the common people, and his teachings were \"nothing short of revolutionary\": apart from the renunciation of wealth and common ownership of goods, he also espoused the rapprochement and complete equality between Muslims and Christians. According to Doukas, he urged his followers to treat Christians as fellow believers and show them hospitality. Doukas even attributes to him the formulation \"Every Turk [i.e., Muslim] who says that the Christians are not faithful to God, is himself an unbeliever\". Mustafa himself set the example for his followers by living as a simple hermit, devoting his life entirely to prayer and the propagation of his ideas. For the latter purpose, he established a missionary organization, sending forth \"apostles\" or \"stylarioi\" (after the location of the mountain where he lived). These missionaries were obliged to poverty, and went about clad only in a tunic, without shoes, and with shorn heads.\n\nWhen Sheikh Bedreddin fled from Iznik to Sinop, Mustafa too abandoned this area, seeking to establish himself and his followers in a place of greater safety than the former Ottoman capital. For this reason, he chose the Karaburun peninsula on the Aegean coast, where he and his followers settled in large numbers. In his nightly prayers, he claimed to mystically communicate with the Cretan hermit on Chios, who in turn told Doukas in person that Mustafa came to visit him every other night.\n\nAccording to different sources he gathered around 4.000-10.000 people. In the beginning of the rebellion İskender Paşa tried to crush the revolt, but he couldn't because of the narrow alleys of the Karaburun peninsula. The people of Karaburun managed to crush the army of İskender Paşa. After this more Turkmen Muslims and Christians joined the rebellion.\n\nAfter the defeat Mehmed sent Timurtaş Paşazade Ali Bey with all the troops of the Saruhan province and Aydin to Karaburun. These troops were also defeated by the peasants. Ali Bey managed to flee to Manisa.\n\nMehmed who heard the news this time sent his son Murat and Bayezid paşa with the troops of Rumelia and reinforcements from Anatolia on Börklüce. On his road to a mountain which was arbitrated by dervishes Bayezid paşa massacred all the people including women, children and old people. On one hand there was a bloody conflict at the Cehennem valley and on the other hand the Ottoman army controlled the harbors of the Sakiz island in order to prevent people from fleeing. A large number of the followers of Börklüce were massacred. Börklüce tried to flee to the Sakiz island with the rest of the people, but when he arrived he noticed the Ottoman navy. After a bloody battle Börklüce and his men couldn't flee and moved to the north of the peninsula where they were captured. Börklüce was taken hostage and after a lot of torturing he still insisted on his beliefs and demands. As a result, he was crucified and bound on the back of a camel to be ridiculed and shown around. The dervishes who stayed loyal to him were killed in front of his eyes. Meanwhile, there was a similar rebellion in Manisa which was probably linked with the rebellion of Karaburun. The rebellion in Manisa was under the leadership of Torlak Kemal.\n\nBörklüce Mustafa was considered as an important philosopher by many theologians and philosophers in the Islamic world. He wrote Tasvîrü'l- Kulûb.\n\n"}
{"id": "42307943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42307943", "title": "Community Resources for Justice", "text": "Community Resources for Justice\n\nCommunity Resources for Justice is a Massachusetts-based organization that has worked for over 130 years in social justice in issues like ex-offender re-entry, prison conditions, public safety, and crime prevention. CRJ was formed through the merger of several older organizations in the Boston and New England area, and while most of its work today is focused in the northeastern United States, CRJ is also engaged in work in other states around the nation.\n\nCommunity Resources for Justice, CRJ, represents the long evolution of criminal justice organizations in Massachusetts. The oldest organization in CRJ's history, the New England Society for the Suppression of Vice (NESSV), began in 1878 and worked to create legislation that influence public morality and dissuade crime. The NESSV went through a number of name changes as it took on more goals: in 1891 it was renamed the New England Watch and Ward Society following its new focus on organized crime in the Boston area. In 1957, that became the New England Citizens Crime Commission, focusing further on specific organized crimes groups\nIn 1967 the NECCC turned back to crime prevention under the name Massachusetts Council on Crime and Correction.\n\nShortly after the NESSV began, a parallel organization, the Massachusetts Prison Association, was founded in 1889. It focused on providing temporary amenities for recently released criminals. In 1937, it broadened scope to provide emergency services to the previously incarcerated. The Massachusetts Prison Association continued to merge with other corrections societies such as the John Howard Society and the Friends of Prisoners in 1940.\n\nFollowing a loss of funding in 1975, these two larger organizations, the Massachusetts Council on Crime and Correction and the Massachusetts Correctional Association, merged to become the Crime and Justice Foundation. The group’s current name, Community Resources for Justice (CRJ), was created in 1999 after merging with MHHI. \n\nToday, the organization provides services to ex–offenders to re–integrate them into society, and reforming the criminal justice system through public policy development while simultaneously pushing for legislation aiding adults with intellectual disabilities and troubled youth.\n\nCommunity Resources for Justice provides services to ex–offenders to re–integrate them into society while also working to reform the criminal justice system through public policy development. CRJ also provides services to adults with intellectual disabilities. CRJ operates group homes, halfway houses, and youth residential facilities in three states.\n\nCRJ's policy work is partially accomplished through its research arm, The Crime and Justice Institute. The Institute collaborates with both regional and national organizations to conduct research and write policy briefs to further inform both scholarly research and public policy.\n\nIn 2001, CRJ released a study that showed that corrections overhauls from the late 1980s stripped the focus on rehabilitation from prison life, leaving prisoners unfit to be released. The study states that 62 percent of former state prison inmates will be rearrested within three years of release. Reporting on the study highlighted the increasing likelihood of recidivism, due to the decline in reintegration programs, and discussed law enforcement's challenge in not just putting criminals in prison, but finding methods to help them stop reoffending.\n\nCRJ, along with The Boston Foundation, conducted research with employers, advocates, criminal records officials, landlords, and legislators to give \"a first look at the real-world effects of changes to the Criminal Offender Record Information system, widely known by the acronym CORI, which had been lauded by activists as a game-changer for people with criminal records looking to reintegrate into society.\" CRJ's work helped put the “Ban the Box” provision into place, which prevents employers from asking about criminal records on initial job applications, but their subsequent study showed that while this has allowed more former convicts to get job interviews, it has seldom translated into jobs.\n"}
{"id": "4300871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4300871", "title": "Cummins Unit", "text": "Cummins Unit\n\nThe Cummins Unit (formerly known as \"Cummins State Farm\") is an Arkansas Department of Correction prison in unincorporated Lincoln County, Arkansas, United States, in the Arkansas Delta region. It is located along U.S. Route 65, near Grady, Gould, and Varner, south of Pine Bluff, and southeast of Little Rock.\n\nThis prison farm is a correctional facility. The prison first opened in 1902 and has a capacity of 1,725 inmates. Cummins housed Arkansas's male death row until 1986, when it was transferred first to the Tucker Maximum Security Unit. The State of Arkansas execution chamber is located in the Cummins Unit, adjacent to the location of the male death row, the Varner Unit. The female death row is located at the McPherson Unit. Cummins is one of the state of Arkansas's \"parent units\" for male prisoners; it serves as one of several units of initial assignment for processed male prisoners.\n\nIn 1902 the State of Arkansas purchased about of land for $140,000 ($ when adjusted for inflation) to build the Cummins Unit. The prison was established during that year, and prisoners began occupying the site in December. The prison occupied the former Cummins and Maple Grove plantations.\n\nThen-Governor of Arkansas Jeff Davis wanted the state to buy a farm in Jefferson County owned by Louis Altheimer, a Republican Party leader who was Davis's friend. When the legislature instead purchased the land for Cummins, Davis put up political opposition, trying to force the state to cancel the purchase.\n\nIn 1933 Governor Junius Marion Futrell closed the Arkansas State Penitentiary (\"The Walls\"), and some prisoners moved to Cummins from the former penitentiary. Since the establishment of the prison, it had housed African-American men and women. Beginning in 1936, White male prisoners with disciplinary problems were housed at Cummins. As of 1958, most prisoners worked in farming, producing cotton, livestock, and vegetables. The prison, during that year, housed clothing and lumber manufacturing facilities. In 1951 White female prisoners were moved from the Arkansas State Farm for Women to Cummins.\n\nOn September 5, 1966, riots occurred at Cummins. 144 prisoners attempted a strike, and Arkansas State Police ended the strike with tear gas. In 1970 some prisoners asking for segregated housing started a riot, leading to the intervention of state police.\n\nIn 1969 Johnny Cash performed at a concert in Cummins Unit. He donated his own money so a chapel could be built there.\n\nIn 1972 Arkansas's first prison rodeo was held at the Cummins Unit. In 1974 death row inmates, previously at the Tucker Unit, were moved to the Cummins Unit. In 1976 female inmates were moved from the Cummins Unit to the Pine Bluff Unit. In 1978 a new execution chamber opened at Cummins Unit. In 1983 the Cummins Modular Unit opened. In 1986 death row inmates were moved to the Maximum Security Unit. In 1991 the vocational technology program moved from the Cummins Unit to the Varner Unit. In 2000 Arkansas's first lethal electrified fence, built with inmate labor, opened at the Cummins Unit.\n\nA tornado affected the Cummins Unit facility in May 2011. It damaged the dairy facility, the chicken and swine houses, and the employee housing in the Free Line area. The tornado destroyed the prison's three green houses. It also turned over a center pivot irrigation system.\n\nIn 1968, Tom Murton alleged that three human skeletons found on the farm were the remains of inmates who had been subjected to torture, prompting a publicized investigation which found \"a prison hospital served as torture chamber and a doctor as chief tormentor.\"\n\nThe revelations included allegations of electrical devices connected to the genitalia of inmates. The Arkansas State Penitentiary System at that time had already been found to have held inmates at the Cummins Unit under conditions rising to the level of unconstitutionally cruel and unusual punishment, in cases tried by the US District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas, among others.\n\n\"Certain characteristics of the Arkansas prison system serve to distinguish it from most other penal institutions in this country. First, it has very few paid employees; armed trusties [\"trusted\" inmates, according to the source] guard rank and file inmates and trusties perform other tasks usually and more properly performed by civilian or \"free world\" personnel. Second, convicts not in isolation are confined when not working, and are required to sleep at night in open dormitory type barracks in which rows of beds are arranged side by side; there are large numbers of men in each barracks. Third, there is no meaningful program of rehabilitation whatever at Cummins; while there is a promising and helpful program at Tucker, it is still minimal.\"\nCummins has about of land.\n\nA white building is and has been referred to the past as the prison's \"barracks.\" The \"telephone-pole\" style structure serves as a housing unit for prisoners. The building had eight units. In the past, one was reserved for White trustees, one for Black trustees, and others for other prisoners. The housing units were racially segregated.\n\nThe prison includes the \"Free Line,\" the prison residences for free world employees, including the warden, several prison officials, and their families; prisoners work as house servants in the Free Line. \nChildren living on the prison property are zoned to the Dumas School District.\n\nIn the past the main entrance to the prison was at the terminus of a road off of the main highway. The main gate consisted of a wooden structure behind a chicken wire fence, which had barbed wire on top. A trusty shooter manned the main entrance. In past eras, the prison housed a commissary and did not house educational facilities, prison factories, or medical and dental clinics.\n\nThe Cummins Unit has an electric fence.\n\nThe Cummins/Varner Volunteer Fire Department provides fire services to the Cummins Unit property. The station is inside the Cummins Unit property, along Arkansas Highway 388. In the financial year 2010 the Arkansas Department of Correction spent $81,691 on the fire station.\n\nAs of 2006, the Cummins Unit has the largest farming operation in the Arkansas Department of Correction system. At Cummins, over of land is devoted to production of crops and farm goods, including cash crops, hay, livestock, and vegetables. As of 2001 prisoners harvest corn, cotton, and rice from the fields and are supervised by prison guards mounted on horses.\n\nCummins previously housed the Special Management Barracks, a unit for prisoners with counseling and mental health requirements. In 2008 it moved to the Randall L. Williams Correctional Facility.\n\nPrisoners at Cummins attend the correctional school system.\n\nIn the past, each prisoner worked for 10 hours per day, six days per week in the fields. Prisoners were only excused if the outside temperature was below freezing. Some prisoners who were sent to the fields lacked shoes. Prisoners did not have fixed quotas. Instead they were told to do as much work as possible. Prisoners deemed to be not doing enough work were beaten.\n\nTrustee prisoners had authority over other prisoners. At night, all except for two of the free world prison guards left, so trustees kept the order during the night. Prisoners who were not trustees were sub-ranked as \"do-pops\" and \"rankers.\" In past eras, trustee prisoners were responsible for the institution's perimeter security.\n\nDuring the day, the prison barracks were empty since most prisoners worked on the fields. At night, the two free world employees patrolled the central corridor but did not venture into the barrack units. The trustees, armed with knives, kept the order at night. Some inmates, referred to as \"crawlers\" and \"creepers,\" stabbed sleeping prisoners. Male on male rape frequently occurred in the housing units. The prison did not ask trustees to intervene in case of rape, and prison guards rarely intervened.\n\nPrisoners did not receive payment for working in the fields. In order to buy items from the commissary, some prisoners worked there. Other prisoners sold their blood; a healthy prisoner was permitted to sell his blood once weekly.\n\nTrustees were allowed to leave and re-enter the prison without undergoing searches, so trustees smuggled in alcohol, illegal drugs, and weapons; they then sold those items within the prison. Trustees usually bought these items from one another, since they had large amounts of money. Non-trustees, including \"do-pops\" and \"rankers,\" had to pay trustees in order to get food, medicine, access to medical staff, access to outsiders, and protection from arbitrary prison punishments. Therefore non-trustees did not have large reserves of extra money.\n\nEducation in the Cummins Unit began in 1968, when the Gould School District started a night program.\n\n\nIn the 1960s, ethnographer Bruce Jackson began taking photographs of prisoners for his research on African American work songs in prison. Jackson had become friends with the assistant warden at the time, T. Don Hutto, and their friendship provided Jackson with access to prisoners resulting in numerous publications. In 2010, Jackson's photo collection from the Cummins Unit was exhibited at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery and at the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University.\n\n"}
{"id": "183570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183570", "title": "Cyprus dispute", "text": "Cyprus dispute\n\nThe Cyprus dispute, also known as the Cyprus conflict, Cyprus issue or Cyprus problem, is the ongoing issue of Turkish military invasion and occupation of the northern third of the island since 1974. Although the Republic of Cyprus is recognized as the sole legitimate statesovereign over all the islandthe north is under the \"de facto\" administration of the self-declared Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, which is guarded by Turkish Armed Forces. Only Turkey recognizes the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, while there is broad recognition that the ongoing military presence constitutes occupation of territories that belong to the Republic of Cyprus. According to the European Court of Human Rights, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus should be considered a puppet state under effective Turkish control.\n\nInitially, with the occupation of the island by the British Empire from the Ottoman Empire in 1878 and subsequent annexation in 1925, the \"Cyprus dispute\" was identified as the conflict between the people of Cyprus and the British Crown regarding the Cypriots' demand for self-determination. The British administration shifted the dispute from a colonial dispute to an ethnic dispute between the Turkish and Greek islanders. The international complications of the dispute stretch beyond the boundaries of the island of Cyprus itself and involve the guarantor powers under the Zürich and London Agreement (Turkey, Greece, and the United Kingdom), the United Nations and the European Union, along with (unofficially) the United States.\n\nThe 1974 Cypriot coup d'état, ordered and executed by the Greek military junta, was followed five days later by Turkey's invasion/intervention, leading to the occupation of the northern part of the internationally recognized Republic of Cyprus. In 1983, the Turkish Cypriot community unilaterally declared independence, forming the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, a sovereign entity that lacks international recognition with the exception of Turkey, with which Northern Cyprus enjoys full diplomatic relations, in violation of Resolution 550, adopted on 11 May 1984 by the United Nations Security Council.\n\nAs a result of the two communities and the guarantor countries committing themselves to finding a peaceful solution to the dispute, the United Nations maintain a buffer zone (known as the \"Green Line\") to avoid any further intercommunal tensions and hostilities. This zone separates the southern areas of the Republic of Cyprus (predominately inhabited by Greek Cypriots), from the northern areas (where Turkish Cypriots and Turkish settlers are a majority). Recent years have seen warming of relations between Greek and Turkish Cypriots, with officially renewed reunification talks beginning in early 2014, though the talks have continuously stalled and resumed multiple times since they began.\n\nThe island of Cyprus was first inhabited in 9000 BC, with the arrival of farming societies who built round houses with floors of terazzo. Cities were first built during the Bronze Age and the inhabitants had their own Eteocypriot language until around the 4th century BC. The island was part of the Hittite Empire as part of the Ugarit Kingdom during the late Bronze Age until the arrival of two waves of Greek settlement.\n\nCyprus experienced an uninterrupted Greek presence on the island dating from the arrival of Mycenaeans around 1100 BC, when the burials began to take the form of long \"dromos\". The Greek population of Cyprus survived through multiple conquerors, including Egyptian and Persian rule. In the 4th century BC, Cyprus was conquered by Alexander the Great and then ruled by the Ptolemaic Egypt until 58 BC, when it was incorporated into the Roman Empire. In the division of the Roman Empire around the 4th century AD, the island was assigned to the predominantly Greek-speaking Eastern Empire.\n\nRoman rule in Cyprus was interrupted in 649, when the Arab armies of the Umayyad Caliphate invaded the island. Fighting over the island between the Muslims and Romans continued for several years, until in 668 the belligerents agreed to make Cyprus a condominium. This arrangement persisted for nearly 300 years, until a Byzantine army conquered the island in around 965. Cyprus would become a theme of the Empire until the late 12th century.\n\nAfter an occupation by the Knights Templar and the rule of Isaac Komnenos, the island in 1192 came under the rule of the Lusignan family, who established the Kingdom of Cyprus. In February 1489 it was seized by the Republic of Venice. Between September 1570 and August 1571 it was conquered by the Ottoman Empire, starting three centuries of Turkish rule over Cyprus.\n\nStarting in the early nineteenth century, ethnic Greeks of the island sought to bring about an end to almost 300 years of Ottoman rule and unite Cyprus with Greece. The United Kingdom took administrative control of the island in 1878, to prevent Ottoman possessions from falling under Russian control following the Cyprus Convention, which led to the call for union with Greece (\"enosis\") to grow louder. Under the terms of the agreement reached between Britain and the Ottoman Empire, the island remained an Ottoman territory.\n\nThe Christian Greek-speaking majority of the island welcomed the arrival of the British, as a chance to voice their demands for union with Greece.\n\nWhen the Ottoman Empire entered World War I on the side of the Central Powers, Britain renounced the Agreement, rejected all Turkish claims over Cyprus and declared the island a British colony. In 1915, Britain offered Cyprus to Constantine I of Greece on condition that Greece join the war on the side of the British, which he declined.\n\nUnder British rule in the early 20th century, Cyprus escaped the conflicts and atrocities that went on elsewhere between Greeks and Turks; during the Greco-Turkish War, and the 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey. Meanwhile, Turkish Cypriots consistently opposed the idea of union with Greece.\n\nIn 1925 Britain declared Cyprus to be a Crown Colony. In the years that followed, the determination of Greek Cypriots to achieve \"enosis\" continued. In 1931 this led to open revolt. A riot resulted in the death of six civilians, injuries to others and the burning of Britain's Government House in Nicosia. In the months that followed, about 2,000 people were convicted of crimes in connection with the struggle for union with Greece. Britain reacted by imposing harsh restrictions. Military reinforcements were dispatched to the island and the constitution suspended. A special \"epicourical\" (reserve) police force was formed consisting of only Turkish Cypriots, press restrictions instituted and political parties banned. Two bishops and eight other prominent citizens directly implicated in the conflict were exiled. Municipal elections were suspended, and until 1943 all municipal officials were appointed by the government. The governor was to be assisted by an Executive Council, and two years later an Advisory Council was established; both councils consisted only of appointees and were restricted to advising on domestic matters only. In addition, the flying of Greek or Turkish flags or the public display of portraits of Greek or Turkish heroes was forbidden.\n\nThe struggle for \"enosis\" was put on hold during World War II. In 1946, the British government announced plans to invite Cypriots to form a Consultative Assembly to discuss a new constitution. The British also allowed the return of the 1931 exiles. Instead of reacting positively, as expected by the British, the Greek Cypriot military hierarchy reacted angrily because there had been no mention of \"enosis\". The Cypriot Orthodox Church had expressed its disapproval, and Greek Cypriots declined the British invitation, stating that \"enosis\" was their sole political aim. The efforts by Greeks to bring about \"enosis\" now intensified, helped by active support of the Church of Cyprus, which was the main political voice of the Greek Cypriots at the time. However, it was not the only organisation claiming to speak for the Greek Cypriots. The Church's main opposition came from the Cypriot Communist Party (officially the Progressive Party of the Working People; \"Ανορθωτικό\" \"Κόμμα\" \"Εργαζόμενου\" \"Λαού\"; or AKEL), which also wholeheartedly supported the Greek national goal of \"enosis\". However the British military forces and Colonial administration in Cyprus did not see the pro-Soviet communist party as a viable partner.\nBy 1954 a number of Turkish mainland institutions were active in the Cyprus issue such as the National Federation of Students, the Committee for the Defence of Turkish rights in Cyprus, the Welfare Organisation of Refugees from Thrace and the Cyprus Turkish Association. Above all, the Turkish trade unions were to prepare the right climate for the main Turkish goal, the division of the island (\"taksim\") into Greek and Turkish parts, thus keeping the British military presence and installations on the island intact. By this time a special Turkish Cypriot paramilitary organisation Turkish Resistance Organisation (TMT) was also established which was to act as a counterbalance to the Greek Cypriot \"enosis\" fighting organisation of EOKA.\n\nIn 1950, Michael Mouskos, Bishop Makarios of Kition (Larnaca), was elevated to Archbishop Makarios III of Cyprus. In his inaugural speech, he vowed not to rest until union with \"mother Greece\" had been achieved. In Athens, \"enosis\" was a common topic of conversation, and a Cypriot native, Colonel George Grivas, was becoming known for his strong views on the subject. In anticipation of an armed struggle to achieve \"enosis\", Grivas visited Cyprus in July 1951. He discussed his ideas with Makarios but was disappointed by the archbishop's contrasting opinion as he proposed a political struggle rather than an armed revolution against the British. From the beginning, and throughout their relationship, Grivas resented having to share leadership with the archbishop. Makarios, concerned about Grivas's extremism from their very first meeting, preferred to continue diplomatic efforts, particularly efforts to get the United Nations involved. The feelings of uneasiness that arose between them never dissipated. In the end, the two became enemies. In the meantime, in August [Papagos Government] 1954, Greece's UN representative formally requested that self-determination for the people of Cyprus be included on the agenda of the General Assembly's next session. Turkey rejected the idea of the union of Cyprus and Greece. Turkish Cypriot community opposed Greek Cypriot \"enosis\" movement, as under British rule the Turkish Cypriot minority status and identity were protected. Turkish Cypriot identification with Turkey had grown stronger in response to overt Greek nationalism of Greek Cypriots, and after 1954 the Turkish government had become increasingly involved. In the late summer and early autumn of 1954, the Cyprus problem intensified. On Cyprus the colonial government threatened publishers of seditious literature with up to two years imprisonment. In December the UN General Assembly announced the decision \"not to consider the problem further for the time being, because it does not appear appropriate to adopt a resolution on the question of Cyprus.\" Reaction to the setback at the UN was immediate and violent, resulting in the worst rioting in Cyprus since 1931.\n\nIn January 1955, Grivas founded the National Organisation of Cypriot Fighters (\"Ethniki Organosis\" \"Kyprion Agoniston\" – EOKA). On 1 April 1955, EOKA opened an armed campaign against British rule in a coordinated series of attacks on police, military, and other government installations in Nicosia, Famagusta, Larnaca, and Limassol. This resulted in the deaths of 387 British servicemen and personnel and some Greek Cypriots suspected of collaboration; in 2009, a memorial for the British soldiers killed by Greek Cypriot EOKA during 1955–1959 Cyprus Emergency was erected in Kyrenia, Northern Cyprus. As a result of this a number of Greek Cypriots began to leave the police. This however did not affect the Colonial police force as they had already created the solely Turkish Cypriot (Epicourical) reserve force to fight EOKA paramilitaries. At the same time, it led to tensions between the Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities. In 1957 the Turkish Resistance Organisation (\"Türk Mukavemet\" \"Teşkilatı\" TMT), which had already been formed to protect the Turkish Cypriots from EOKA took action. In response to the growing demand for \"enosis\", a number of Turkish Cypriots became convinced that the only way to protect their interests and identity of the Turkish Cypriot population in the event of \"enosis\" would be to divide the island – a policy known as \"taksim\" (\"partition\" in Turkish borrowed from (تقسیم)\"Taqsīm\" in Arabic) – into a Greek sector in the south and a Turkish sector in the north only.\n\nBy now the island was on the verge of civil war. Several attempts to present a compromise settlement had failed. Therefore, beginning in December 1958, representatives of Greece and Turkey, the so-called \"mother lands\" opened discussions of the Cyprus issue. Participants for the first time discussed the concept of an independent Cyprus, i.e., neither \"enosis\" nor \"taksim\". Subsequent talks always headed by the British yielded a so-called compromise agreement supporting independence, laying the foundations of the Republic of Cyprus. The scene then naturally shifted to London, where the Greek and Turkish representatives were joined by representatives of the Greek Cypriots, the Turkish Cypriots (represented by Arch. Makarios and Dr Fazil Kucuk with no significant decision making power), and the British. The Zürich-London agreements that became the basis for the Cyprus constitution of 1960 were supplemented with three treaties – the Treaty of Establishment, the Treaty of Guarantee, and the Treaty of Alliance. The general tone of the agreements was one of keeping the British sovereign bases and military and monitoring facilities intact. Some Greek Cypriots, especially members of organisations such as EOKA, expressed disappointment because \"enosis\" had not been attained. In a similar way some Turkish Cypriots especially members of organisations such as TMT expressed their disappointment as they had to postpone their target for \"taksim\", however most Cypriots that were not influenced by the three so called guarantor powers (Greece, Turkey, and Britain), welcomed the agreements and set aside their demand for \"enosis\" and \"taksim\". According to the Treaty of Establishment, Britain retained sovereignty over 256 square kilometres, which became the Dhekelia Sovereign Base Area, to the northeast of Larnaca, and the Akrotiri Sovereign Base Area to the southwest of Limassol.\n\nCyprus achieved independence on 16 August 1960.\n\nAccording to constitutional arrangements, Cyprus was to become an independent, non-aligned republic with a Greek Cypriot president and a Turkish Cypriot vice-president. General executive authority was vested in a council of ministers with a ratio of seven Greeks to three Turks. (The Greek Cypriots represented 78% of the population and the Turkish Cypriots 18%. The remaining 4% was made up by the three minority communities: the Latins, Maronites and Armenians.) A House of Representatives of fifty members, also with a seven-to-three ratio, were to be separately elected by communal balloting on a universal suffrage basis. In addition, separate Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot Communal Chambers were provided to exercise control in matters of religion, culture, and education. According to Article 78(2) \"any law imposing duties or taxes shall require a simple majority of the representatives elected by the Greek and Turkish communities respectively taking part in the vote\". Legislation on other subjects was to take place by simple majority but again the President and the Vice-President had the same right of veto—absolute on foreign affairs, defence and internal security, delaying on other matters—as in the Council of Ministers. The judicial system would be headed by a Supreme Constitutional Court, composed of one Greek Cypriot and one Turkish Cypriot and presided over by a contracted judge from a neutral country. The Constitution of Cyprus, whilst establishing an Independent and sovereign Republic, was, in the words of de Smith, an authority on Constitutional Law, \"Unique in its tortuous complexity and in the multiplicity of the safeguards that it provides for the principal minority; the Constitution of Cyprus stands alone among the constitutions of the world\".\nWithin a short period of time the first disputes started to arise between the two communities. Issues of contention included taxation and the creation of separate municipalities. Because of the legislative veto system, this resulted in a lockdown in communal and state politics in many cases.\n\nRepeated attempts to solve the disputes failed. Eventually, on 30 November 1963, Makarios put forward to the three guarantors a thirteen-point proposal designed, in his view, to eliminate impediments to the functioning of the government. The thirteen points involved constitutional revisions, including the abandonment of the veto power by both the president and the vice president. Turkey initially rejected it (although later in future discussed the proposal). A few days later, on Bloody Christmas (1963) 21 December 1963 fighting erupted between the communities in Nicosia. In the days that followed it spread across the rest of the island. At the same time, the power-sharing government collapsed. How this happened is one of the most contentious issues in modern Cypriot history. The Greek Cypriots argue that the Turkish Cypriots withdrew in order to form their own administration. The Turkish Cypriots maintain that they were forced out. Many Turkish Cypriots chose to withdraw from the government. However, in many cases those who wished to stay in their jobs were prevented from doing so by the Greek Cypriots. Also, many of the Turkish Cypriots refused to attend because they feared for their lives after the recent violence that had erupted. There was even some pressure from the TMT as well. In any event, in the days that followed the fighting a frantic effort was made to calm tensions. In the end, on 27 December 1963, an interim peacekeeping force, the Joint Truce Force, was put together by Britain, Greece and Turkey. After the partnership government collapsed, the Greek Cypriot led administration was recognized as the legitimate government of the Republic of Cyprus at the stage of the debates in New York in February 1964. The Joint Truce Force held the line until a United Nations peacekeeping force, UNFICYP, was formed following United Nations Security Council Resolution 186, passed on 4 March 1964.\n\nAt the same time as it established a peacekeeping force, the Security Council also recommended that the Secretary-General, in consultation with the parties and the Guarantor Powers, designate a mediator to take charge of formal peacemaking efforts. U Thant, then the UN Secretary-General, appointed Sakari Tuomioja, a Finnish diplomat. While Tuomioja viewed the problem as essentially international in nature and saw \"enosis\" as the most logical course for a settlement, he rejected union on the grounds that it would be inappropriate for a UN official to propose a solution that would lead to the dissolution of a UN member state. The United States held a differing view. In early June, following another Turkish threat to intervene, Washington launched an independent initiative under Dean Acheson, a former Secretary of State. In July he presented a plan to unite Cyprus with Greece. In return for accepting this, Turkey would receive a sovereign military base on the island. The Turkish Cypriots would also be given minority rights, which would be overseen by a resident international commissioner. Makarios rejected the proposal, arguing that giving Turkey territory would be a limitation on \"enosis\" and would give Ankara too strong a say in the island's affairs. A second version of the plan was presented that offered Turkey a 50-year lease on a base. This offer was rejected by the Greek Cypriots and by Turkey. After several further attempts to reach an agreement, the United States was eventually forced to give up its effort.\n\nFollowing the sudden death of Ambassador Tuomioja in August, Galo Plaza was appointed Mediator. He viewed the problem in communal terms. In March 1965 he presented a report criticising both sides for their lack of commitment to reaching a settlement. While he understood the Greek Cypriot aspiration of \"enosis\", he believed that any attempt at union should be held in voluntary abeyance. Similarly, he considered that the Turkish Cypriots should refrain from demanding a federal solution to the problem. Although the Greek Cypriots eventually accepted the report, despite its opposition to immediate \"enosis\", Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots rejected the plan, calling on Plaza to resign on the grounds that he had exceeded his mandate by advancing specific proposals. He was simply meant to broker an agreement. But the Greek Cypriots made it clear that if Galo Plaza resigned they would refuse to accept a replacement. U Thant was left with no choice but to abandon the mediation effort. Instead he decided to make his Good Offices available to the two sides via resolution 186 of 4 March 1964 and a Mediator was appointed. In his Report (S/6253, A/6017, 26 March 1965), the Mediator, Dr Gala Plaza, criticised the 1960 legal framework, and proposed necessary amendments which were rejected by Turkey, a fact which resulted in serious deterioration of the situation with constant threats by Turkey against the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cyprus, necessitating a series of UN Resolutions calling, inter alia, for respect of the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus.\n\nThe end of the mediation effort was effectively confirmed when, at the end of the year, Plaza resigned and was not replaced.\n\nIn March 1966, a more modest attempt at peacemaking was initiated under the auspices of Carlos Bernades, the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Cyprus. Instead of trying to develop formal proposals for the parties to bargain over, he aimed to encourage the two sides agree to settlement through direct dialogue. However, ongoing political chaos in Greece prevented any substantive discussions from developing. The situation changed the following year.\n\nOn 21 April 1967, a coup d'état in Greece brought to power a military administration. Just months later, in November 1967, Cyprus witnessed its most severe bout of intercommunal fighting since 1964. Responding to a major attack on Turkish Cypriot villages in the south of the island, which left 27 dead, Turkey bombed Greek Cypriot forces and appeared to be readying itself for an intervention. Greece was forced to capitulate. Following international intervention, Greece agreed to recall General George Grivas, the Commander of the Greek Cypriot National Guard and former EOKA leader, and reduce its forces on the island. Capitalising on the weakness of the Greek Cypriots, the Turkish Cypriots proclaimed their own provisional administration on 28 December 1967. Makarios immediately declared the new administration illegal. Nevertheless, a major change had occurred. The Archbishop, along with most other Greek Cypriots, began to accept that the Turkish Cypriots would have to have some degree of political autonomy. It was also realised that unification of Greece and Cyprus was unachievable under the prevailing circumstances.\n\nIn May 1968, intercommunal talks began between the two sides under the auspices of the Good Offices of the UN Secretary-General. Unusually, the talks were not held between President Makarios and Vice-President Kucuk. Instead they were conducted by the presidents of the communal chambers, Glafcos Clerides and Rauf Denktaş. Again, little progress was made. During the first round of talks, which lasted until August 1968, the Turkish Cypriots were prepared to make several concessions regarding constitutional matters, but Makarios refused to grant them greater autonomy in return. The second round of talks, which focused on local government, was equally unsuccessful. In December 1969 a third round of discussion started. This time they focused on constitutional issues. Yet again there was little progress and when they ended in September 1970 the Secretary-General blamed both sides for the lack of movement. A fourth and final round of intercommunal talks also focused on constitutional issues, but again failed to make much headway before they were forced to a halt in 1974.\n\nAfter 1967 some hopes arose that a compromise on separate municipalities could be achieved in negotiations between Glafcos Clerides and Rauf Denktaş and certainly agreement came close, but the Makarios government could not accept de jure separateness, which would have denied the principle of the unitary, if bi-communal, state.\n\nInter-communal strife was also overshadowed during this period by a serious rift on the Greek side, between Makarios and the enosist National Front supported by the Greek military junta. Makarios had now become an obstacle to enosis. An attempt was made on his life, and Grivas returned in 1971 to head a new organisation, EOKA-B, with Makarios, rather than the Turkish-Cypriots, in its sight.\n\nMakarios was told from Athens to dismiss his foreign minister and to regard Athens as the National Centre. Makarios rallied supporters successfully against attempts to remove him. He was still popular in Cyprus.\n\nMatters became worse when a new junta came to power in September 1973, and there was less relief from rightist pressure than might have been expected when Grivas died suddenly in January 1974. The pressure mounted until a peace operation in July 1974 allegedly led by a 'hammer of the Turks' Nikos Sampson, overthrew Makarios, who managed to flee the country via a British base. For Turkey this raised the spectre of Greek control of Cyprus.\n\nThe Turkish government therefore now demanded that Greece should dismiss Sampson, withdraw all Greek officers from the island and respect the island's independence. The Greek military government refused. For the United States, Kissinger did not seem to be greatly disturbed by the Sampson coup and looked as if he could accept enosis. Turkish Prime Minister Ecevit's assertiveness in foreign policy, reinforced by his junior coalition partner strongly inclined the Turks to intervene. The British were invited to participate in military operations, under the Treaty of Guarantee, but declined. The American envoy Joseph Sisco tried unsuccessfully to persuade the Greek military government to accept Ecevit's conditions for a Cyprus settlement, which included Turkish-Cypriot control of a coastal region in the north and negotiations for a federal solution. The Soviet Union stood aside not wanting to see enosis, which would strengthen NATO and weaken the left in Cyprus.\n\nAfter failing to secure British support for a joint intervention under the Treaty of Guarantee, Bülent Ecevit, the Turkish prime minister, decided to act unilaterally. On 20 July Turkey ordered a military invasion of the island. Within two days, Turkish forces had established a narrow corridor linking the north coast with Nicosia. The intervention led to turmoil in Greece. On 23 July, the military junta collapsed.\n\nLaunched with relatively few troops, the Turkish landing had limited success at first, and resulted everywhere on the island in the occupation of Turkish-Cypriot enclaves by the Greek forces. After securing a more or less satisfactory bridgehead Turkish forces agreed to a cease-fire on 23 July 1974. The same day civilian government under Karamanlis took office in Athens, the day the Sampson coup collapsed. Glafcos Clerides became the Acting President in absence still of Makarios.\n\nTwo days later formal peace talks were convened in Geneva between Greece, Turkey and Britain. Over the course of the following five days Turkey agreed to halt its advance on the condition that it would remain on the island until a political settlement was reached between the two sides. Meanwhile, Turkish troops did not refrain from extending their positions, as more Turkish-Cypriot enclaves were occupied by Greek forces. A new cease-fire line was agreed. On 30 July the powers agreed that the withdrawal of Turkish troops from the island should be linked to a 'just and lasting settlement acceptable to all parties concerned'. The declaration also spoke of 'two autonomous administrations -that of Greek-Cypriot community and that of the Turkish-Cypriot community'. On 8 August another round of discussion was held in Geneva, Switzerland. Unlike before, this time the talks involved the Greek and Turkish Cypriots. During the discussions the Turkish Cypriots, supported by Turkey, insisted on some form of geographical separation between the two communities. Makarios refused to accept the demand, insisting that Cyprus must remain a unitary state. Despite efforts to break the deadlock, the two sides refused to budge. On 14 August, Turkey demanded from Clerides acceptance of a proposal for a federal state, in which the Turkish Cypriot community (who, at that time, comprised about 18% of the population and owned about 10% of the land) would have received 34% of the island. Clerides asked for 36 to 48 hours to consult with the Cypriot and Greek governments, but Turkey refused to grant any consultation time, effectively ending the talks. Within hours, Turkey had resumed its second offensive. By the time a new, and permanent, ceasefire was called 36 per cent of the island was under the control of the Turkish military. The partition was marked by the United Nations Buffer Zone in Cyprus or \"green line\" running east to west across the island.\n\nThe effect of the division was catastrophic for all concerned. Thousands of Greek and Turkish Cypriots had been killed, wounded or missing. A further two hundred thousand Greek and Turkish Cypriots had been displaced. In addition to the entire north coast (Kerynia, Morfou) and the Karpas peninsula, the Greek Cypriots were also forced to flee the eastern port city of Famagusta. The vast majority of the Turkish occupied area was predominantly populated and owned by Greek Cypriots prior to 1974.\nIn the process about 160,000 – 200,000 Greek Cypriots who made up 82% of the population in the north became refugees; many of them fleeing at the word of the approaching Turkish army. Since 1974, the ceasefire line separates the two communities on the island, and is commonly referred to as the Green Line. The United Nations consented to the transfer of the remainder of the 51,000 Turkish Cypriots that were trapped in the south to settle in the north, if they wished to do so. Many of them had previously moved to the areas under UK sovereign control awaiting permission to be transferred to the areas under Turkish control.\n\nAt the second Geneva Conference on 9 August, Turkey pressed for a federal solution to the problem against stiffening Greek resistance. Whilst Turkish Cypriots wanted a bi-zonal federation, Turkey, under American advice, submitted a cantonal plan involving separation of Turkish-Cypriot areas from one another. For security reasons Turkish-Cypriots did not favour cantons. Each plan embraced about thirty-four per cent of the territory.\n\nThese plans were presented to the conference on 13 August by the Turkish Foreign Minister, Turan Güneş. Clerides wanted thirty-six to forty-eight hours to consider the plans, but Güneş demanded an immediate response. This was regarded as unreasonable by the Greeks, the British, and the Americans, who were in close consultation. Nevertheless, the next day, the Turkish forces extended their control to some 36 per cent of the island, afraid that delay would turn international opinion strongly against them.\n\nTurkey's international reputation suffered as a result of the precipitate move of the Turkish military to extend control to a third of the island. The British prime minister regarded the Turkish ultimatum as unreasonable since it was presented without allowing adequate time for study. In Greek eyes, the Turkish proposals were submitted in the full awareness that the Greek side could not accept them, and reflected the Turkish desire for a military base in Cyprus. The Greek side has gone some way in their proposals by recognising Turkish 'groups' of villages and Turkish administrative 'areas'. But they stressed that the constitutional order of Cyprus should retain its bi-communal character based on the co-existence of the Greek and Turkish communities within the framework of a sovereign, independent and integral republic. Essentially the Turkish side's proposals were for geographic consolidation and separation and for a much larger measure of autonomy for that area, or those areas, than the Greek side could envisage.\n\nOn 28 April 1975, Kurt Waldheim, the UN Secretary-General, launched a new mission of Good Offices. Starting in Vienna, over the course of the following ten months Clerides and Denktaş discussed a range of humanitarian issues relating to the events of the previous year. However, attempts to make progress on the substantive issues – such as territory and the nature of the central government – failed to produce any results. After five rounds the talks fell apart in February 1976. In January 1977, the UN managed to organise a meeting in Nicosia between Makarios and Denktaş. This led to a major breakthrough. On 12 February, the two leaders signed a four-point agreement confirming that a future Cyprus settlement would be based on a federation. The size of the states would be determined by economic viability and land ownership. The central government would be given powers to ensure the unity of the state. Various other issues, such as freedom of settlement and freedom of movement, would be settled through discussion. Just months later, in August 1977, Makarios died. He was replaced by Spyros Kyprianou, the foreign minister.\n\nIn May 1979, Waldheim visited Cyprus and secured a further ten-point set of proposals from the two sides. In addition to re-affirming the 1977 High-Level Agreement, the ten points also included provisions for the demilitarisation of the island and a commitment to refrain from destabilising activities and actions. Shortly afterwards a new round of discussions began in Nicosia. Again, they were short-lived. For a start, the Turkish Cypriots did not want to discuss Varosha, a resort quarter of Famagusta that had been vacated by Greek Cypriots when it was overrun by Turkish troops. This was a key issue for the Greek Cypriots. Second, the two sides failed to agree on the concept of 'bicommunality'. The Turkish Cypriots believed that the Turkish Cypriot federal state would be exclusively Turkish Cypriot and the Greek Cypriot state would be exclusively Greek Cypriot. The Greek Cypriots believed that the two states should be predominantly, but not exclusively, made up of a particular community.\n\nIn May 1983, an effort by Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, then UN Secretary-General, foundered after the United Nations General Assembly passed a resolution calling for the withdrawal of all occupation forces from Cyprus. The Turkish Cypriots were furious at the resolution, threatening to declare independence in retaliation. Despite this, in August, Pérez de Cuéllar gave the two sides a set of proposals for consideration that called for a rotating presidency, the establishment of a bicameral assembly along the same lines as previously suggested, and 60:40 representation in the central executive. In return for increased representation in the central government, the Turkish Cypriots would surrender 8–13 per cent of the land in their possession. Both Kyprianou and Denktaş accepted the proposals. However, on 15 November 1983, the Turkish Cypriots took advantage of the post-election political instability in Turkey and unilaterally declared independence. Within days the Security Council passed a resolution, no.541 (13–1 vote: only Pakistan opposed) making it clear that it would not accept the new state and that the decision disrupted efforts to reach a settlement. Denktaş denied this. In a letter addressed to the Secretary-General informing him of the decision, he insisted that the move guaranteed that any future settlement would be truly federal in nature. Although the 'Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus' (TRNC) was soon recognised by Turkey, the rest of the international community condemned the move. The Security Council passed another resolution, no.550 (13–1 vote: again only Pakistan opposed) condemning the \"purported exchange of ambassadors between Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leadership\".\n\nIn September 1984, talks resumed. After three rounds of discussions it was again agreed that Cyprus would become a bi-zonal, bi-communal, non-aligned federation. The Turkish Cypriots would retain 29 per cent for their federal state and all foreign troops would leave the island. In January 1985, the two leaders met for their first face-to-face talks since the 1979 agreement. However, while the general belief was that the meeting was being held to agree to a final settlement, Kyprianou insisted that it was a chance for further negotiations. The talks collapsed. In the aftermath, the Greek Cypriot leaders came in for heavy criticism, both at home and abroad. After that Denktaş announced that he would not make so many concessions again. Undeterred, in March 1986, de Cuéllar presented the two sides with a Draft Framework Agreement. Again, the plan envisaged the creation of an independent, non-aligned, bi-communal, bi-zonal state in Cyprus. However, the Greek Cypriots were unhappy with the proposals. They argued that the questions of removing Turkish forces from Cyprus was not addressed, nor was the repatriation of the increasing number of Turkish settlers on the island. Moreover, there were no guarantees that the full three freedoms would be respected. Finally, they saw the proposed state structure as being confederal in nature. Further efforts to produce an agreement failed as the two sides remained steadfastly attached to their positions.\n\nIn August 1988, Pérez de Cuéllar called upon the two sides to meet with him in Geneva in August. There the two leaders – George Vasiliou and Rauf Denktaş – agreed to abandon the Draft Framework Agreement and return to the 1977 and 1979 High Level Agreements. However, the talks faltered when the Greek Cypriots announced their intention to apply for membership of the European Community (EC, subsequently EU), a move strongly opposed by the Turkish Cypriots and Turkey. Nevertheless, in June 1989, de Cuellar presented the two communities with the \"Set of Ideas\". Denktaş quickly rejected them as he not only opposed the provisions, he also argued that the UN Secretary-General had no right to present formal proposals to the two sides. The two sides met again, in New York, in February 1990. However, the talks were again short lived. This time Denktaş demanded that the Greek Cypriots recognise the existence of two peoples in Cyprus and the basic right of the Turkish Cypriots to self-determination.\n\nOn 4 July 1990, Cyprus formally applied to join the EC. The Turkish Cypriots and Turkey, which had applied for membership in 1987, were outraged. Denktaş claimed that Cyprus could only join the Community at the same time as Turkey and called off all talks with UN officials. Nevertheless, in September 1990, the EC member states unanimously agreed to refer the Cypriot application to the Commission for formal consideration. In retaliation, Turkey and the TRNC signed a joint declaration abolishing passport controls and introducing a customs union just weeks later. Undeterred, Javier Pérez de Cuéllar continued his search for a solution throughout 1991. He made no progress. In his last report to the Security Council, presented in October 1991 under United Nations Security Council Resolution 716, he blamed the failure of the talks on Denktaş, noting the Turkish Cypriot leader's demand that the two communities should have equal sovereignty and a right to secession.\n\nOn 3 April 1992, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the new UN Secretary-General, presented the Security Council with the outline plan for the creation of a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation that would prohibit any form of partition, secession or union with another state. While the Greek Cypriots accepted the Set of Ideas as a basis for negotiation, Denktaş again criticised the UN Secretary-General for exceeding his authority. When he did eventually return to the table, the Turkish Cypriot leader complained that the proposals failed to recognise his community. In November, Ghali brought the talks to a halt. He now decided to take a different approach and tried to encourage the two sides to show goodwill by accepting eight confidence building measures (CBMs). These included reducing military forces on the island, transferring Varosha to direct UN control, reducing restrictions on contacts between the two sides, undertaking an island-wide census and conducting feasibility studies regarding a solution. The Security Council endorsed the approach.\n\nOn 24 May 1993, the Secretary-General formally presented the two sides with his CBMs. Denktaş, while accepting some of the proposals, was not prepared to agree to the package as a whole. Meanwhile, on 30 June, the European Commission returned its opinion on the Cypriot application for membership. While the decision provided a ringing endorsement of the case for Cypriot membership, it refrained from opening the way for immediate negotiations. The Commission stated that it felt that the issue should be reconsidered in January 1995, taking into account \"the positions adopted by each party in the talks\". A few months later, in December 1993, Glafcos Clerides proposed the demilitarisation of Cyprus. Denktaş dismissed the idea, but the next month he announced that he would be willing to accept the CBMs in principle. Proximity talks started soon afterwards. In March 1994, the UN presented the two sides with a draft document outlining the proposed measures in greater detail. Clerides said that he would be willing to accept the document if Denktaş did, but the Turkish Cypriot leader refused on the grounds that it would upset the balance of forces on the island. Once again, Ghali had little choice but to pin the blame for another breakdown of talks on the Turkish Cypriot side. Denktas would be willing to accept mutually agreed changes, but Clerides refused to negotiate any further changes to the March proposals. Further proposals put forward by the Secretary-General in an attempt to break the deadlock were rejected by both sides.\n\nAt the Corfu European Council, held on 24–25 June 1994, the EU officially confirmed that Cyprus would be included in the Union's next phase of enlargement. Two weeks later, on 5 July, the European Court of Justice imposed restrictions on the export of goods from Northern Cyprus into the European Union. Soon afterwards, in December, relations between the EU and Turkey were further damaged when Greece blocked the final implementation of a customs union. As a result, talks remained completely blocked throughout 1995 and 1996.\n\nIn December 1996, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) delivered a landmark ruling that declared that Turkey was an occupying power in Cyprus. The case – Loizidou v. Turkey – centred on Titina Loizidou, a refugee from Kyrenia, who was judged to have been unlawfully denied the control of her property by Turkey. The case also had severe financial implications as the Court later ruled that Turkey should pay Mrs Loizidou US$825,000 in compensation for the loss of use of her property. Ankara rejected the ruling as politically motivated.\n\nAfter twenty years of talks, a settlement seemed as far off as ever. However, the basic parameters of a settlement were by now internationally agreed. Cyprus would be a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation. A solution would also be expected to address the following issues:\n\nIn August 1996, Greek Cypriot refugees demonstrated with a motorcycle protest in Deryneia against the Turkish occupation of Cyprus. The demonstrators' demand was the complete withdrawal of Turkish troops and the return of Cypriot refugees to their homes and properties. Among them was Tassos Isaac who was beaten to death.\n\nAnother man, Solomos Solomou, was shot to death by Turkish troops during the same protests on 14 August 1996. An investigation by authorities of the Republic of Cyprus followed, and the suspects were named as Kenan Akin and Erdan Emanet. International legal proceedings were instigated and arrest warrants for both were issued via Interpol. During the demonstrations on 14 August 1996, two British soldiers were also shot by the Turkish forces: Neil Emery and Jeffrey Hudson, both from 39th Regiment Royal Artillery. Bombardier Emery was shot in his arm, whilst Gunner Hudson was shot in the leg by a high velocity rifle round and was airlifted to hospital in Nicosia then on to RAF Akrotiri.\n\nThe situation took another turn for the worse at the start of 1997 when the Greek Cypriots announced that they intended to purchase the Russian-made S-300 anti-aircraft missile system. Soon afterwards, the Cyprus Missile Crisis started. The crisis effectively ended in December 1998 with the decision of the Cypriot government to transfer the S-300s to Crete, in exchange for alternative weapons from Greece.\n\nIn 1997 the basic parameters of the Cyprus Dispute changed. A decision by the European Union to open up accession negotiations with the Republic of Cyprus created a new catalyst for a settlement. Among those who supported the move, the argument was made that Turkey could not have a veto on Cypriot accession and that the negotiations would encourage all sides to be more moderate. However, opponents of the move argued that the decision would remove the incentive of the Greek Cypriots to reach a settlement. They would instead wait until they became a member and then use this strength to push for a settlement on their terms. In response to the decision, Rauf Denktaş announced that he would no longer accept federation as a basis for a settlement. In the future he would only be prepared to negotiate on the basis of a confederal solution. In December 1999 tensions between Turkey and the European Union eased somewhat after the EU decided to declare Turkey a candidate for EU membership, a decision taken at the Helsinki European Council. At the same time a new round of talks started in New York. These were short lived. By the following summer they had broken down. Tensions started to rise again as a showdown between Turkey and the European Union loomed over the island's accession.\n\nPerhaps realising the gravity of the situation, and in a move that took observers by surprise, Rauf Denktaş wrote to Glafcos Clerides on 8 November 2001 to propose a face-to-face meeting. The offer was accepted. Following several informal meetings between the two men in November and December 2001 a new peace process started under UN auspices on 14 January 2002. At the outset the stated aim of the two leaders was to try to reach an agreement by the start of June that year. However, the talks soon became deadlocked. In an attempt to break the impasse, Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary-General visited the island in May that year. Despite this no deal was reached. After a summer break Annan met with the two leaders again that autumn, first in Paris and then in New York. As a result of the continued failure to reach an agreement, the Security Council agreed that the Secretary-General should present the two sides with a blueprint settlement. This would form the basis of further negotiations. The original version of the UN peace plan was presented to the two sides by Annan on 11 November 2002. A little under a month later, and following modifications submitted by the two sides, it was revised (Annan II). It was hoped that this plan would be agreed by the two sides on the margins of the European Council, which was held in Copenhagen on 13 December. However, Rauf Denktaş, who was recuperating from major heart surgery, declined to attend. The EU therefore decided to confirm that Cyprus would join the EU on 1 May 2004, along with Malta and eight other states from Central and Eastern Europe.\nAlthough it had been expected that talks would be unable to continue, discussions resumed in early January 2003. Thereafter, a further revision (Annan III) took place in February 2003, when Annan made a second visit to the island. During his stay he also called on the two sides to meet with him again the following month in The Hague, where he would expect their answer on whether they were prepared to put the plan to a referendum. While the Greek Cypriot side, which was now led by Tassos Papadopoulos, agreed to do so, albeit reluctantly, Rauf Denktaş refused to allow a popular vote. The peace talks collapsed. A month later, on 16 April 2003, Cyprus formally signed the EU Treaty of Accession at a ceremony in Athens.\n\nThroughout the rest of the year there was no effort to restart talks. Instead, attention turned to the Turkish Cypriot elections, which were widely expected to see a victory by moderate pro-solution parties. In the end, the assembly was evenly split. A coalition administration was formed that brought together the pro-solution CTP and the Democrat Party, which had traditionally taken the line adopted by Rauf Denktaş. This opened the way for Turkey to press for new discussions. After a meeting between Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Kofi Annan in Switzerland, the leaders of the two sides were called to New York. There they agreed to start a new negotiation process based on two phases: phase one, which would just involve the Greek and Turkish Cypriots, being held on the island and phase two, which would also include Greece and Turkey, being held elsewhere. After a month of negotiations in Cyprus, the discussions duly moved to Burgenstock, Switzerland. The Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktaş rejected the plan outright and refused to attend these talks. Instead, his son Serdar Denktaş and Mehmet Ali Talat attended in his place. There a fourth version of the plan was presented. This was short-lived. After final adjustments, a fifth and final version of the Plan was presented to the two sides on 31 March 2004.\n\nUnder the final proposals, the Republic of Cyprus would become the United Cyprus Republic. It would be a loose federation composed of two component states. The northern Turkish Cypriot constituent state would encompass about 28.5% of the island, the southern Greek Cypriot constituent state would be made up of the remaining 71.5%. Each part would have had its own parliament. There would also be a bicameral parliament on the federal level. In the Chamber of Deputies, the Turkish Cypriots would have 25% of the seats. (While no accurate figures are currently available, the split between the two communities at independence in 1960 was approximately 80:20 in favour of the Greek Cypriots.) The Senate would consist of equal parts of members of each ethnic group. Executive power would be vested in a presidential council. The chairmanship of this council would rotate between the communities. Each community would also have the right to veto all legislation.\n\nOne of the most controversial elements of the plan concerned property. During Turkey's military intervention/invasion in 1974, many Greek Cypriots (who owned 90% of the land and property in the north) were forced to abandon their homes. (A large number of Turkish Cypriots also left their homes.) Since then, the question of restitution of their property has been a central demand of the Greek Cypriot side. However, the Turkish Cypriots argue that the complete return of all Greek Cypriot properties to their original owners would be incompatible with the functioning of a bi-zonal, bi-communal federal settlement. To this extent, they have argued compensation should be offered. The Annan Plan attempted to bridge this divide. In certain areas, such as Morphou (Güzelyurt) and Famagusta (Gazimağusa), which would be returned to Greek Cypriot control, Greek Cypriot refugees would have received back all of their property according to a phased timetable. In other areas, such as Kyrenia (Girne) and the Karpass Peninsula, which would remain under Turkish Cypriot control, they would be given back a proportion of their land (usually one third assuming that it had not been extensively developed) and would receive compensation for the rest. All land and property (that was not used for worship) belonging to businesses and institutions, including the Church the largest property owner on the island, would have been expropriated. While many Greek Cypriots found these provisions unacceptable in themselves, many others resented the fact that the Plan envisaged all compensation claims by a particular community to be met by their own side. This was seen as unfair as Turkey would not be required to contribute any funds towards the compensation.\n\nApart from the property issue, there were many other parts of the plan that sparked controversy. For example, the agreement envisaged the gradual reduction in the number of Greek and Turkish troops on the island. After six years, the number of soldiers from each country would be limited to 6,000. This would fall to 600 after 19 years. Thereafter, the aim would be to try to achieve full demilitarisation, a process that many hoped would be made possible by Turkish accession to the European Union. The agreement also kept in place the Treaty of Guarantee – an integral part of the 1960 constitution that gave Britain, Greece and Turkey a right to intervene militarily in the island's affairs. Many Greek Cypriots were concerned that the continuation of the right of intervention would give Turkey too large a say in the future of the island. However, most Turkish Cypriots felt that a continued Turkish military presence was necessary to ensure their security. Another element of the plan the Greek Cypriots objected to was that it allowed many Turkish citizens who had been brought to the island to remain. (The exact number of these Turkish 'settlers' is highly disputed. Some argue that the figure is as high as 150,000 or as low as 40,000. They are seen as settlers illegally brought to the island in contravention of international law. However, while many accepted Greek Cypriot concerns on this matter, there was a widespread feeling that it would be unrealistic – and legally and morally problematic – to forcibly remove every one of these settlers, especially as many of them had been born and raised on the island.)\n\nUnder the terms of the plan, the Annan plan would only come into force if accepted by the two communities in simultaneous referendums. These were set for 24 April 2004. In the weeks that followed there was intense campaigning in both communities. However, and in spite of opposition from Rauf Denktaş, who had boycotted the talks in Switzerland, it soon became clear that the Turkish Cypriots would vote in favour of the agreement. Among Greek Cypriots opinion was heavily weighted against the plan. Tassos Papadopoulos, the president of Cyprus, in a speech delivered on 7 April called on Greek Cypriots to reject the plan. His position was supported by the centrist Diko party and the socialists of EDEK as well as other smaller parties. His major coalition partner AKEL, one of the largest parties on the island, chose to reject the plan bowing to the wishes of the majority of the party base. Support for the plan was voiced by Democratic Rally (DISY) leadership, the main right-wing party, despite opposition to the plan from the majority of party followers, and the United Democrats, a small centre-left party led by George Vasiliou, a former president. Glafcos Clerides, now retired from politics, also supported the plan. Prominent members of DISY who did not support the Annan plan split from the party and openly campaigned against it. The Greek Cypriot Church also opposed the plan in line with the views of the majority of public opinion.\n\nThe United Kingdom (a Guarantor Power) and the United States came out in favour of the plan. Turkey signalled its support for the plan. The Greek Government decided to remain neutral. However, Russia was troubled by an attempt by Britain and the US to introduce a resolution in the UN Security Council supporting the plan and used its veto to block the move. This was done because they believed that the resolution would provide external influence to the internal debate, which they did not view as fair.\n\nIn the 24 April referendum the Turkish Cypriots endorsed the plan by a margin of almost two to one. However, the Greek Cypriots resoundingly voted against the plan, by a margin of about three to one.\n\nIn 2004, the Turkish Cypriot community was awarded \"observer status\" in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), as part of the Cypriot delegation. Since then, two Turkish Cypriot representatives of PACE have been elected in the Assembly of Northern Cyprus.\n\nOn 1 May 2004, a week after the referendum, Cyprus joined the European Union. Under the terms of accession the whole island is considered to be a member of the European Union. However, the terms of the \"acquis communautaire\", the EU's body of laws, have been suspended in Northern Cyprus.\n\nAfter the referendum, in June 2004, the Turkish Cypriot community, despite the objection of the Cypriot government, had its designation at the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, of which it has been an observer since 1979, changed to the \"Turkish Cypriot State\".\n\nDespite initial hopes that a new process to modify the rejected plan would start by autumn, most of the rest of 2004 was taken up with discussions over a proposal by the European Union to open up direct trade with the Turkish Cypriots and provide €259,000,000 in funds to help them upgrade their infrastructure. This plan has provoked considerable debate. The Republic of Cyprus has argued that there can be no direct trade via ports and airports in Northern Cyprus as these are unrecognised. Instead, it has offered to allow Turkish Cypriots to use Greek Cypriot facilities, which are internationally recognised. This has been rejected by the Turkish Cypriots. At the same time, attention turned to the question of the start of Turkey's future membership of the European Union. At a European Council held on 17 December 2004, and despite earlier Greek Cypriot threats to impose a veto, Turkey was granted a start date for formal membership talks on condition that it signed a protocol extending the customs union to the new entrants to the EU, including Cyprus. Assuming this is done, formal membership talks would begin on 3 October 2005.\n\nFollowing the defeat of the UN plan in the referendum there has been no attempt to restart negotiations between the two sides. While both sides have reaffirmed their commitment to continuing efforts to reach an agreement, the UN Secretary-General has not been willing to restart the process until he can be sure that any new negotiations will lead to a comprehensive settlement based on the plan he put forward in 2004. To this end, he has asked the Greek Cypriots to present a written list of the changes they would like to see made to the agreement. This was rejected by President Tassos Papadopoulos on the grounds that no side should be expected to present their demands in advance of negotiations. However, it appears as though the Greek Cypriots would be prepared to present their concerns orally. Another Greek Cypriot concern centres on the procedural process for new talks. Mr. Papadopoulos said that he will not accept arbitration or timetables for discussions. The UN fears that this would lead to another open-ended process that could drag on indefinitely.\n\nIn October 2012, Northern Cyprus became an \"observer member\" country of the Economic Cooperation Organization under the name \"Turkish Cypriot State\".\n\nThe podium display after the 2006 Turkish Grand Prix caused a controversy, when winner Felipe Massa received the trophy from Mehmet Ali Talat, who was referred to as the \"President of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus\". The government of the Republic of Cyprus filed an official complaint with the FIA. After investigating the incident, the FIA fined the organisers of the Grand Prix $5 million on 19 September 2006. The Turkish Motorsports Federation (TOSFED) and the organisers of the Turkish Grand Prix (MSO) agreed to pay half the fined sum pending an appeal to be heard by the FIA International Court of Appeal on 7 November 2006. TOSFED insisted the move was not planned and that Mehmet Ali Talat did fit FIA's criteria for podium presentations as a figure of world standing. Keen to repair their impartiality in international politics, the FIA stood their ground forcing the appeal to be withdrawn.\n\nIn the 2008 presidential elections, Papadopoulos was defeated by AKEL candidate Dimitris Christofias, who pledged to restart talks on reunification immediately. Speaking on the election result, Mehmet Ali Talat stated that \"this forthcoming period will be a period during which the Cyprus problem can be solved within a reasonable space of time – despite all difficulties – provided that there is will\". Christofias held his first meeting as president with the Turkish Cypriot leader on 21 March 2008 in the UN buffer zone in Nicosia. At the meeting, the two leaders agreed to launch a new round of \"substantive\" talks on reunification, and to reopen Ledra Street, which has been cut in two since the intercommunal violence of the 1960s and has come to symbolise the island's division. On 3 April 2008, after barriers had been removed, the Ledra Street crossing was reopened in the presence of Greek and Turkish Cypriot officials.\n\nA first meeting of the technical committees was set to take place on 18 April 2008. Talat and Christofias met socially at a cocktail party on 7 May 2008, and agreed to meet regularly to review the progress of the talks so far. A second formal summit was held on 23 May 2008 to review the progress made in the technical committees. At a meeting on 1 July 2008, the two leaders agreed in principle on the concepts of a single citizenship and a single sovereignty, and decided to start direct reunification talks very soon; on the same date, former Australian foreign minister Alexander Downer was appointed as the new UN envoy for Cyprus. Christofias and Talat agreed to meet again on 25 July 2008 for a final review of the preparatory work before the actual negotiations would start. Christofias was expected to propose a rotating presidency for the united Cypriot state. Talat stated he expected they would set a date to start the talks in September, and reiterated that he would not agree to abolishing the guarantor roles of Turkey and Greece, with a reunification plan would be put to referendums in both communities after negotiations.\n\nIn December 2008, the Athenian socialist daily newspaper \"To Vima\" described a \"crisis\" in relations between Christofias and Talat, with the Turkish Cypriots beginning to speak openly of a loose \"confederation\", an idea strongly opposed by South Nicosia. Tensions were further exacerbated by Turkey's harassment of Cypriot vessels engaged in oil exploration in the island's Exclusive Economic Zone, and by the Turkish Cypriot leadership's alignment with Ankara's claim that Cyprus has no continental shelf.\n\nOn 29 April 2009, Talat stated that if the Court of Appeal of England and Wales (that will put the last point in the Orams' case) makes a decision just like in the same spirit with the decision of European Court of Justice (ECJ) then the Negotiation Process in Cyprus will be damaged in such a way that it will never be repaired once more. The European Commission warned the Republic of Cyprus not to turn Orams' case legal fight to keep their holiday home into a political battle over the divided island.\n\nOn 31 January 2010, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon arrived in Cyprus to accelerate talks aimed at reuniting the country. The election of nationalist Derviş Eroğlu of the National Unity Party as president in Northern Cyprus on was expected to complicate reunification negotiations, however, Eroǧlu stated that he was now also in favour of a federal state, a change from his previous positions.\n\nA series of five tripartite meetings took place from 2010 to 2012, with Ban, Christofias and Eroglu negotiating, but without any agreement on the main issues. When asked about the process in March 2011, Ban replied \"The negotiations cannot be an open-ended process, nor can we afford interminable talks for the sake of talks\". That month saw the 100th negotiation since April 2008 without any agreement over the main issues- a deadlock that continued through the next year and a half despite a renewed push for Cyprus to unite and take over the EU presidency in 2012.\n\nTalks began to fell apart in 2012, with Ban Ki-moon stating that \"there is not enough progress on core issues of reunification talks for calling an international conference\". Special Advisor of the Secretary-General Alexander Downer further commented that \"If the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot Leaders cannot agree with each other on a model for a united Cyprus, then United Nations cannot make them\". Eroglu stated that joint committees with the Greek Cypriot side had been set up to take confidence-building measures in September that year, but negotiations were suspended in early 2013 because of a change of government in the Greek Cypriot community of Cyprus. On 11 February 2014, Alexander Downer, UN Secretary-General's special adviser, stepped down. The Greek and Turkish Cypriot leaders declared a Joint Communique.\n\nIn February 2014, renewed negotiations to settle the Cyprus dispute began after several years of warm relations between the north and the south. On 11 February 2014, the leaders of Greek and Turkish Cypriot communities, Nicos Anastasiades and Derviş Eroğlu, respectively, revealed the following joint declaration:\n\nThe governments of both Greece and Turkey expressed their support for renewed peace talks. The declaration was also welcomed by the European Union.\n\nOn 13 February 2014, Archbishop Chrysostomos lent Anastasiades his backing on the Joint Declaration.\n\nOn 14 February 2014, the Greek Cypriot negotiator Andreas Mavroyiannis and Turkish Cypriot negotiator Kudret Özersay held their first meeting and agreed to visit Greece and Turkey respectively.\n\nReactions among the Greek Cypriot political parties were mixed. The opposition AKEL party declared its support for the declaration. However, Nicolas Papadopoulos, the leader of DIKO, the main partner to Anastasiades' party DISY in the governing coalition, opposed the declaration, and DIKO's executive committee voted on 21 February to recommend to the party's central committee that the party withdraw from the coalition from 4 March. On 27 February, DIKO decided to leave the coalition government, with the explanation that the Joint Declaration had conceded separate sovereignty to Turkish Cypriots.\n\nOn 15 May 2015, in the first Akıncı-Anastasiades negotiation meeting, Northern Cyprus lifted visa requirement for Greek Cypriots, and Anastasiades presented maps of 28 minefields in the north, near the mountainous region of Pentadaktilos.\n\nThe President of the Republic of Cyprus, Nicos Anastasiades, and President of Northern Cyprus, Mustafa Akıncı, met for the first time and restarted peace talks on 12 May 2015. On 7 July 2017, UN-sponsored talks held in the Swiss Alps for the past 10 days were brought to a halt after negotiations broke down.\n\nA number of observers increasingly suggest partition is the best solution. In April 2009, an opinion poll conducted for the CyBC showed that the majority of Greek Cypriots supported partition.\nAn international panel of legal experts proposed the \"creation of a Constitutional Convention under European Union auspices and on the basis of the 1960 Cyprus Constitution to bring together the parties directly concerned in order to reach a settlement in conformity with the Fundamental Principles\".\nCritical peace scholars suggest that a solution to the Cyprus conflict can only be found by including society on a broad base, as political elites started to abuse the conflict as a source of power and resources.\n\nIn an official White House statement on 8 June 2016, US Vice President Joe Biden and Turkish Prime Minister Binali Yildirim reaffirmed strong support for \"an agreement that reunifies the island as a bi-zonal, bi-communal federation\".\n\n\n\n\nDocumentaries\n"}
{"id": "23854550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23854550", "title": "Duty to report misconduct", "text": "Duty to report misconduct\n\nThe duty to report misconduct is one of the ethical duties imposed on attorneys in the United States by the rules governing professional responsibility. With certain exceptions, an attorney who becomes aware that either a fellow attorney or a judge has committed an act in violation of the rules of ethical conduct must report that violation. Failure to do so subjects the attorney failing to make the report to discipline.\n\nThe duty extends only to actual knowledge possessed by an attorney. An attorney who has a mere suspicion of misconduct is not required to report that suspicion, nor is the attorney required to conduct any sort of investigation to confirm or dispel that suspicion. The conduct at issue must rise to the level of misconduct under the rules of professional responsibility. Thus, an attorney who witnesses another attorney become intoxicated, engage in adultery, or gamble away a large sum of money is under no duty to report these acts because they are not prohibited by the rules of professional responsibility. Conduct that must be reported, on the other hand, includes matters such as breaching client confidentiality, misusing client funds, tampering with evidence, suborning perjury, offering bribes, and committing criminal acts of violence or dishonesty.\n\nThere are several substantial exceptions to the duty to report misconduct. First and foremost, where an attorney learns of the misconduct through a client, the duty of confidentiality to the client trumps the duty to report. The attorney must seek permission of the client to report the misconduct, and if the permission is not granted, the attorney may not report it. Moreover, if reporting the misconduct would harm the client, the attorney may not report it at all. For example, where a client who owns a restaurant tells his attorney, Jones, that a different attorney, Smith, suggested that the client bribe a health inspector, Jones may not report Smith's misconduct unless Jones first gets the client's permission. However, if the client reports that Smith not only made a suggestion that the client bribe the health inspector, but assisted the client in paying the bribe, then Jones may not report this at all because doing so would be harmful to the client.\n\nAn attorney also may not report misconduct by another attorney who is the client of the first. If Smith has hired Jones to represent Smith in a legal matter, and Smith confides in Jones during the course of that representation that Smith has stolen money from clients, bribed judges, or otherwise violated the rules of professional conduct, Jones must nevertheless abide by his duty of confidentiality to Smith. Jones is therefore prohibited from reporting those violations.\n\nFinally, an attorney who learns of misconduct by another attorney through a Bar-approved substance abuse program is not required to reveal the misconduct. This is to encourage attorneys who have drug or alcohol problems to seek treatment for those problems by insuring that they may disclose misconduct prompted by their addiction in the course of seeking treatment for it.\n"}
{"id": "4426912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4426912", "title": "End Conscription Campaign", "text": "End Conscription Campaign\n\nThe End Conscription Campaign was an anti-apartheid organisation allied to the United Democratic Front (UDF) and composed of conscientious objectors and their supporters in South Africa. It was formed in 1983 to oppose the conscription of all white South African men into military service in the South African Defence Force.\n\nThe apartheid government had a policy of compulsory conscription for young white men who were expected to perform military service at regular intervals, starting with an extended training which began in the year immediately following the one in which they left school or as soon as they turned 16, whichever came last. Many were granted deferment, for example to attend University and complete an undergraduate degree first, but very few young men were exempted from conscription for any reason other than being medically unfit or for a race classification error. Valid reasons included conscientious objection based on religious beliefs, but these exceptions were tightened in 1974. Increasingly stringent laws were passed increasing periods of service, broadening the base of eligible white men who could be called up, and providing stringent sentences for those men who objected.\n\nConscripts comprised a significant part of South African Defence Force (SADF).\n\nThe End Conscription Campaign (ECC) was formed in 1983, in protest against compulsory military service. It mobilised support for its campaigns, proposed service alternatives, supported conscientious objectors and provided a forum for the public with information and education on conscription and the alternatives. The ECC was founded in response to a resolution passed by Black Sash at their annual conference, which condemned South Africa's occupation of Namibia and charged the SADF with fighting a civil war.\n\nConscientious objection was a serious choice as the consequences were severe. The reasons for conscientious objection included political, ethical and religious reasons. Some religious organisations, parent groups and student organisations such as the National Union of South African Students (NUSAS) also engaged in anti-conscription activities.\n\nAt its peak, conscription in South Africa consisted of two years of mandatory military service, followed by camps at intervals. Under apartheid, the call-up applied to all white men after completing their schooling or further studies.\n\nObjections to military service and the War in Angola were generally based on the role of the military and security forces in enforcing the policy of apartheid. Although South Africa's defence forces were active against various liberation movements in Southern Africa and the frontline states (countries bordering the republic including Angola, South West Africa (now Namibia) and Mozambique), suppressing a guerrilla war, they also waged war against MPLA and Cuban forces in a conventional war at the battle of Cuito Cuanavale. The military had also become increasingly active in suppressing a civil war in South Africa's black townships.\n\nThose who refused military service were subject to contempt from the minority white community, and left with the choice of either going underground (internal exile) fleeing the republic (external exile) or imprisonment of up to double the length of the allotted military service. Many conscripts simply went Absent Without Leave (AWOL), failed to arrive at BASICS (training) or got lost in the system.\n\nThe End Conscription Campaign, one of many anti-war movements alongside Congress of South African War Resistors (COSAWR) mobilised against the draft, promoted alternatives to military service, provided information about the situation in the townships and support to those brave enough to speak out against the war, as conscientious objectors.\n\nIn 1985, the ECC held the \"Troops out of the Townships\" rally and were overwhelmingly successful in demonstrating the growing dissatisfaction within the white community, with the government of the day\n\nThe rally was preceded by a three-week fast by objectors Ivan Toms, Harold Winkler and Richard Steele.\n\nIt was announced in parliament that 7 589 conscripts failed to report for National Service in January 1985, as opposed to only 1 596 in the whole of 1984. As there were two intakes annually, in January and July, this would suggest a tenfold increase in non-reportees over the previous year. An estimated additional 7 000 \"draft-dodgers\" were also said to be living in Europe in 1985.This campaign received as significant boost when at 1983 Durban Conference the National PFP Youth, its Western Cape Chairperson Stephen Drus ( Stephen Darori) endorsed the ECC and proposed a motion calling for Alternative to Conscription. The motion was passed unanimously.He proposed the same motion at the Annual Conference of the PFP in Cape Town a few months later which passed with little opposition.Following intense backroom negotiations between Harry Schwarz and Philip Myburg, the Defense Spokesmen of the PFP, the Nationalist Government passed an amendment that introduced a four-year Alternative to Conscription. 1452 people opted for the Alternative to Conscription between 1984 and the cancelling of Conscription in South Africa in 1993.\n\nJanuary 1985 and July 1985 were the first so-called \"immigrant intakes\" after the involuntary nationalisation of white immigrant men of a predetermined age group in November 1984. The high number of non-reportees was due to many of these immigrants opting to return to their countries of origin rather than do military service, since this opportunity was easily available to them because of their dual citizenship.\n\nIn 1987, a group of 23 conscientious objectors from the Universities of Cape Town and Stellenbosch, including Cameron Dugmore, then University of Cape Town Students Representative Council Chairperson and Jonathan Handler, South African Union of Jewish Students (SAUJS) Chairperson, refused to do military service in the South African Defense Force. Handlers' objection was based upon the notion of an \"Unjust War\" as opposed to the Pacifist position held by many Christian students.\n\nThe organisation was banned in August 1988 under emergency regulations. In a press statement Adriaan Vlok, then Minister of Law and Order said: \"The changes posed by the activities of the End Conscription Campaign to the safety of the public, the maintenance of public order and the termination of the State of Emergency, leave no other choice than to act against the ECC and to prohibit the organisation from continuing any activities or acts.\"\n\nThe same month, an issue of an alternative newspaper, the \"Weekly Mail\", was confiscated by security police, \"on the grounds that it had covered, and therefore promoted, opposition to conscription.\" News coverage included a cartoon, an advertisement from War Resisters International, and \"a report on 143 men who stated they would never serve in the South African Defence Force.\"\n\nAs a result of the banning of the ECC and confiscation of the \"Weekly Mail\", protests at the University of Cape Town (UCT) and other campuses were held. According to Grassroots, a crowd of 3000 UCT students marched on campus after a meeting condemning the banning. The paper said, \"government fears losing control of white youth. This is the message sent by the banning of the ECC under emergency regulations...the ECC pointed out that there is a civil war in our country, and that the SADF is being used against fellow South Africans...ECC's growing influence, led PW Botha and Magnus Malan to close it down. They fear that the message of the ECC will undermine apartheid's defence force.\" After the End Conscription Campaign was banned, hundreds of white South African war resisters refused the call-up, and conscription into the War in Angola and Civil War raging in South Africa's Black Townships continued. Some dodged the draft, others fled the country, some stood-up and faced the consequences for what they believed. None were ever given recognition by either the South African government or the newly elected democracy.\n\nIn 1989, conscription was reduced from two years to one year, and during the negotiations to end apartheid from 1990 to 1994, it was less rigorously enforced. A Kairos campaign against conscription was the 1989 Campaign focussing on the End Conscription Campaign with participation of Alistair Teeling Smith, Rob Watson and Mandy Tailor. Saul Batzofin, 27, a member of the End Conscription Campaign, was sentenced to 18 months' imprisonment in 1989 for refusing to serve in the South African Defence Force. After he had completed his sentence he later told the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that he wanted to apply for amnesty to clear his criminal record. Although he was proud to have been a conscientious objector, the record caused difficulties with visa applications for foreign countries.\n\nDuring September 1989, thirty Stellenbosch conscientious objectors joined more than 700 listed COs nationwide by publicly refusing to do military service. The National Registry of Conscientious Objectors was also launched.\n\nOn 24 August 1993 Minister of Defence Kobie Coetsee announced the end of conscription. In 1994 there would be no more call-ups for the one-year initial training. But although conscription was suspended it was not entirely abandoned. Indeed, in January 1994 for the first time there was no call-up for initial training, but at the same time conscripts who had already undergone training could be subject to \"camp\" call-ups, as they were technically subject to military law rather than civilian law. Actually \"camp\" call-ups reached record proportions over the period of the April 1994 elections, and for the first time in history the ECC called on conscripts to consider these call-ups to be different from previous call-ups.\n\n\nUntil the August 1994 moratorium on prosecutions for not responding to call-ups, several of those who did not respond to \"camp\" call-ups were fined. After the first multi-racial election in 1994, conscription has no longer applied in South Africa and the civilian draft has been exchanged for a professional standing army.\nHowever, conscripts who failed to report for duty, still faced prosecution under South Africa's Defence Act. An amendment to the act promulgated in 2002 allows for absentee members of the SANDF to be regarded as discharged from official duty.\n\n3 Section 59(3) of the Defence Act determines that: A member of the Regular Force absent from official duty without permission of their commanding officer for more than thirty days is regarded as having been dismissed if an officer, or discharged if of other rank, for misconduct with effect from the day immediately following the day of attendance to duty or last day of official leave, but the Chief of the Defence Force may, with good cause, authorise reinstatement of such conditions as they determine.\n\nAccording to a Department of Defence bulletin, dated 10 July 2003, \"In essence, this means that if a member has absented himself or herself for a continuous period of thirty days, he or she is automatically discharged from the SANDF. It is therefore no longer necessary to approach the Minister of Defence for such a dismissal or discharge, as the individual will effect their own discharge if absent thirty days without permission. Should a member wish to be reinstated in the SANDF, he or she should approach the Chief of the SANDF with sound reasons why he or she was absent without permission.\"\n\nIn 1986, Shifty Records released \"Forces Favourites\" in conjunction with the ECC. Named after a radio programme for sending greetings to the troops fighting on the \"border\" - the frontline of the Angolan campaign.\n\nThe ironically titled \"Forces Favourites\" compilation features some of the strongest political songs of the time.\n\n\nMany ECC members were subject to persecution. During 1986 98 members were detained, and others subjected to systematic harassment and intimidation. Meetings, publications and activities of the organisation were banned. Disinformation, death threats, fire-bombings, assaults, break-ins, and anonymous counter-propaganda against the organisation was commonplace. Evidence in a Cape Town court in 1988 revealed that the SADF itself had been running a disinformation campaign against the ECC.\n\nPolitical and military figures adopted varying and sometimes contradictory methods and messages to try and contain the threat of conscientious objection. National Party politicians characterised ECC activists as naive, malevolent in intent, in league with 'communist revolutionaries' and also as sexually deviant (i.e. homosexual) and cowardly. However, there is evidence that sentencing magistrates and even state prosecutors came to admire objectors for their stand.\n\nIn order to get out of forced conscription into the SADF, many conscripts allowed themselves to be labeled as mentally ill, sick, or incapable of carrying a weapon. The price was incarceration in one of South Africa's psychiatric facilities. Instances of psychiatric abuse of conscripts who refused national service have also been recorded. The cases of conscripts who ended up in mental hospitals are in the process of being documented by groups such as MindFreedom International.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10912000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10912000", "title": "Expulsion of Poles by Germany", "text": "Expulsion of Poles by Germany\n\nThe Expulsion of Poles by Germany was a prolonged anti-Polish campaign of ethnic cleansing by violent and terror-inspiring means lasting nearly half a century. It began with the concept of Pan-Germanism developed in the early 19th century and culminated in the racial policy of Nazi Germany that asserted the superiority of the Aryan race. The removal of Poles by Germany stemmed from historic ideas of expansionist nationalism. It was implemented at different levels and different stages by successive German governments. It ended with the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945. \n\nThe partitions of Poland had ended the existence of a sovereign Polish state in the 18th century. With the rise of German nationalism in mid 19th century, Poles faced increasing discrimination on formerly Polish lands. The first mass deportation of 30,000 Poles from territories controlled by the German Empire took place in 1885. While the ideas of expelling Poles can be found in German political discourse of the 19th century, these ideas matured into nascent plans advocated by German politicians during the First World War, which called for the removal of the Polish population from Polish territories first annexed by the Russian Empire during partitions and then by Germany. Before and after the 1939 invasion of Poland the Nazis exploited these ideas when creating their Lebensraum concept of territorial aggression. Large-scale expulsions of Poles occurred during World War II, when Nazi Germany started the Generalplan Ost campaign of ethnic cleansing in all Polish areas occupied by, and formally annexed to Nazi Germany. Although the Nazis were not able to fully implement Generalplan Ost due to the war's turn, up to 2 million Poles were affected by wartime expulsions with additional millions displaced or killed.\n\nPoles had constituted one of the largest minorities in the German Empire since its creation in 1871. This was a result of the earlier acquisitions made by Prussia, the state that initiated the Unification of Germany. The Electorate of Brandenburg (later Kingdom of Prussia), with its capital in Berlin after 1451, acquired historic lands with significant Polish population in a series of military operations, and, in the second half of the 18th century, had seized western territories of the Polish Kingdom by taking part in the Partitions of Poland and the Silesian Wars with Austria.\n\nThe idea of pan-Germanism, demanding the unification of all Germans in one state, including the German diaspora east of the imperial border, grew out of Romantic nationalism. Some pan-Germanists believed that Germans were ethnically superior to other peoples — including Slavs, whom they viewed as inferior to the German \"race\" and culture. The Nazi concept of \"Lebensraum\" in turn demanded \"living space\" for German people, claiming overpopulation of Germany and alleged negative traits of heavy urbanisation in contrast to agricultural settlement. The desired territories were to be taken particularly from Poland. Both pan-Germanism and \"Lebensraum\" theory viewed Poles as an obstacle to German hegemony and prosperity as well as future expansion of the German state.\n\nIn the territories annexed during the Partitions of Poland, German authorities sought to limit the number of ethnic Poles by their forced Germanisation and by a new wave of settlement by German colonists at their expense. Beginning with the Kulturkampf, laws were enacted to restrict Polish culture, religion, language, and rights to property. Bismarck initiated the Prussian deportations of 1885-1890, which affected some 30,000 Poles and Jews living in Germany who did not have German citizenship. This is described by E.J. Feuchtwanger as one the precedents to modern policies of ethnic cleansing. In 1887 Bernhard von Bülow, the future Chancellor of the German Empire, advocated expelling Poles by force from territories which were Polish-inhabited and slated to become part of Germany.\n\nIn 1908, Germany legalized eviction of Poles from their properties under pressure from pan-German nationalist groups who hoped this law would be used to reduce the number of Poles in the East.\n\nIn August 1914 the German imperial army bombed and burned down the city of Kalisz, chasing out tens of thousands of its Polish citizens. However, during World War I, Germany had a frantic need for extra manpower in the East, and hoped to tap into the reservoir of military volunteers among the Poles by making promises of a future independent Polish state. This initiative (led by Bethmann) failed, producing only \"a dribble of volunteers\" in 1916, but it was a commitment very hard to retract. There were numerous mistakes made, such as the Oath Crisis, caused by poor wording of the oath of the Polish soldiers, which caused consternation among many Polish volunteers. In general, opinions of the German occupiers were mixed, between those who hoped that the Germans would set up a new Polish state, and those who feared German domination. In any case, successful attacks by the Russian army, such as the 'Brusilov offensive', forced Germany to consider a quasi independent buffer state between the two empires, hopefully set up only in the former Russian Poland and linked to Germany by its own military means. The idea of reconstituting Congress Poland for the Poles after the war, was a cynical ploy which stemmed from a desire to push Russia's frontiers further East with the least amount of German effort. In reality, Germany planned to annex about 30,000 km² from former Congress Poland for German colonisation. Most of the Polish population of those territories (about 2,000,000 people) was to be expelled into a small Polish puppet state. The remaining population was to be used as agricultural labour for new German colonists.\n\nWith the occupation of Poland following the German invasion of the country, Nazi policies were enacted upon its Polish population on an unprecedented scale. According to Nazi ideology Poles, as Untermenschen, were seen as fit only for slavery and for further elimination in order to make room for the Germans. Adolf Hitler had plans for extensive colonisation of territories in the east of the Third Reich. Poland, itself, would – according to well documented German plans – have been cleared of Polish people altogether, as 20 million or so would have been expelled eventually. Up to 3 or 4 million Polish citizens (all peasants) believed to be descendants of German colonists and migrants and therefore considered \"racially valuable\" would be Germanised and dispersed among the German population. Nazi leadership hoped that through expulsions to Siberia, famine, mass executions, and slave labour of any survivors, the Polish nation would be eventually completely destroyed.\n\nWorld War II expulsions took place within two specific territories: one area annexed to Reich in 1939 and 1941, and another, the General Government, precursor to further expansion of German administrative settlement area. Eventually, as Adolf Hitler explained in March 1941, the General Government would be cleared of Poles, the region would be turned into a \"purely German area\" within 15–20 years and in place of 15 million Poles, 4–5 million Germans would live there, and the area would become \"as German as the Rhineland.\n\nThe Nazi plan to ethnically cleanse the territories occupied by Germany in Eastern Europe during World War II, was called the Generalplan Ost (GPO). Germanisation began with the classification of people suitable as defined on the Nazi Volksliste. About 1.7 million Poles were deemed Germanizable, including between one and two hundred thousand children who were taken from their parents. For the rest, expulsion was carried out.\n\nThese expulsions were carried out so abruptly that ethnic Germans being resettled there were given homes with half-eaten meals on tables and unmade beds where small children had been sleeping at the time of expulsion. Members of Hitler Youth and the League of German Girls were assigned the task of overseeing such evictions to ensure that the Poles left behind most of their belongings for the use of the settlers. According to Czesław Łuczak, Germans expelled the following numbers of Poles from territories annexed to the Reich in the period of 1939–1944:\n\nCombined with \"wild expulsions\", in four years 923,000 Poles were ethnically cleansed from territories Germany annexed into the Reich.\n\nWithin the territories of the German protoctorate called General Government there were two main areas of expulsions committed by the German state. The protectorate itself was seen as temporary measure, and served as a concentration camp for Poles to perform hard labour furthering German industry and war effort. Eventually it was to be cleared of Poles also.\n\nSome 116,000 Poles were expelled from the Zamość region as part of Nazi plans for establishment of German colonies in the conquered territories. Zamość itself was to be renamed Himmlerstadt, later changed to Pflugstadt (Plough City), that was to symbolise the German \"Plow\" that was to \"plough\" the East. Additionally almost 30,000 children were kidnapped by German authorities from their parents for potential Germanisation. This led to massive resistance (see Zamość Uprising).\n\nIn October 1940, 115,000 Poles were expelled from their homes in central Warsaw to make room for the Jewish Ghetto, constructed there by German authorities. (Jews were then expelled from their homes elsewhere and forced to move into the Ghetto.) When the Warsaw Uprising failed, 500,000 people were expelled from the city alone as punishment by German authorities.\n\nIt is estimated that between 1.6 and 2 million people were expelled from their homes during the German occupation of Poland. The Nazi German organized expulsions—by themselves—affected 1,710,000 Poles directly. New estimates by Polish historians give the number of 2.478 million people expelled. Additionally, 2.5 to 3 million Poles were taken from Poland to Germany as slave labourers to support the Nazi war effort. These numbers do not include people arrested by the Germans and sent to Nazi concentration camps.\n\nIn many instances, Poles were given between 15 minutes and 1 hour to collect their personal belongings (usually no more than 15 kilograms per person) before they were removed from their homes and transported east (\"see: deportations\") On top of that about 5 million Poles were sent to German labor and concentration camps. A total of about 6 million Polish citizens were killed during the war, of which approximately half were Jews or of Jewish descent. All these actions resulted in significant changes in Polish demographics at the end of the war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51348835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51348835", "title": "External Security Organisation", "text": "External Security Organisation\n\nThe External Security Organisation (ESO) is a government agency, mandated to collect, analyse and process information related to external security threats with the objective of informing national policy makers in Uganda. Its headquarters are located in a three-story office building that the agency owns on Hannington Road, on Nakasero Hill, in Kampala, Uganda's capital and largest city. \n\nESO was established by an Act of Parliament, the Security Organisations Act 1987. The agency focuses on the assessment of external security threats to Uganda. In the 2014/2015 financial year, the agency was allocated a budget of UGX:14 billion. Sometimes ESO's activities overlap with those of other government spy agencies, including the Internal Security Organisation and the Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence.\n\nThe Director-general serves as the chief executive of the government agency. She or he is appointed by the President of Uganda and reports directly to the president and to any other person or entity approved by the president. The Director-general has directors under her/his supervision, who report directly to her/him. The current director-general is Joseph Ocwet, a former career diplomat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50308056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50308056", "title": "Fisher v. University of Texas (2016)", "text": "Fisher v. University of Texas (2016)\n\nFisher v. University of Texas, 579 U.S. ____ (2016) (commonly referred to as Fisher II) is a United States Supreme Court case which held that the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit correctly found that the University of Texas at Austin's undergraduate admissions policy survived strict scrutiny, in accordance with \"Fisher v. University of Texas (2013)\", which ruled that strict scrutiny should be applied to determine the constitutionality of the University's race-sensitive admissions policy.\n\nPlaintiffs Abigail Noel Fisher and Rachel Multer Michalewicz applied to the University of Texas at Austin in 2008 and were denied admission. The two women, both white, filed suit, alleging that the University had discriminated against them on the basis of their race in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. At the time that the initial lawsuit was filed, the University of Texas at Austin accepted students in the top 10% of each Texas high school's graduating class, regardless of their race; under Texas House Bill 588, 81% of 2008's freshman class were admitted under the plan. (Starting with the fall 2010 admission class, Senate Bill 175 adjusted this rule to the top 7 percent, but with no more than 75 percent of freshman slots filled under automatic admissions.)\n\nApplicants who, like Fisher, failed to gain acceptance by automatic admissions can still gain admission by scoring highly in a process that evaluates their talents, leadership qualities, family circumstances, and race. Fisher had a grade point average of 3.59 (adjusted to a 4.0 scale) and was in the top 12% of her class at Stephen F. Austin High School. She scored 1180 on her SAT. The 25th and 75th percentiles of the incoming class at UT-Austin were 1120 and 1370. Fisher was involved in the orchestra and math competitions and volunteered at Habitat for Humanity.\n\nIn 2009, United States District Court judge Sam Sparks upheld the University's policy, finding that it meets the standards laid out in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\". That decision was affirmed by a Fifth Circuit panel composed of judges Patrick Higginbotham, Carolyn Dineen King and Emilio M. Garza. In his ruling, Higginbotham wrote that the \"ever-increasing number of minorities gaining admission under this 'Top Ten Percent Law' casts a shadow on the horizon to the otherwise-plain legality of the \"Grutter-like\" admissions program, the Law's own legal footing aside.\" A request for a full-court en banc hearing was denied by a 9–7 vote\n\nIn September 2011, lawyers representing Fisher filed petition seeking review from the Supreme Court. On February 21, 2012, the court granted \"certiorari\" in \"Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin\". The Supreme Court heard the oral argument in October 2012, and handed down its decision on June 24, 2013. In a 7–1 decision, the Court vacated and remanded the Fifth Circuit's ruling. Writing for the majority, Justice Kennedy concluded that the Fifth Circuit failed to apply \"strict scrutiny\" in its decision affirming the admissions policy. Instead, he wrote, the Fifth Circuit held that Fisher could only challenge \"whether the University's decision to use race as an admissions factor 'was made in good faith.' Justice Ginsburg was the lone dissenter, who argued in favor of affirming the judgment of the Fifth Circuit in its entirety.\n\nOn remand, in November, the Fifth Circuit court heard oral arguments from both sides. On July 15, 2014, the Fifth Circuit announced its decision in favor of UT Austin, with Judge Garza dissenting. Fisher sought a rehearing en banc with the Fifth Circuit which was denied on November 12, 2014, in a 10–5 decision. Fisher then filed a petition for certiorari to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court again agreed to hear the case on June 29, 2015, to decide whether the Fifth Circuit's determination that the University of Texas at Austin's use of racial preferences passed strict scrutiny and can be sustained. Justice Elena Kagan again recused herself from this case due to her prior involvement as Solicitor General.\n\nOn June 29, 2015, the Supreme Court granted Fisher's second challenge on the UT Austin's admissions policy. The case was assigned docket number 14-981 and oral arguments were heard on December 9. Legal analysts predicted from the justices' questions that the Court would likely either remand the case again to the lower courts for additional fact-finding, strike down UT Austin's policy, or strike down affirmative action in college admissions nationwide.\n\nDuring oral arguments, Justice Scalia raised the mismatching theory and questioned whether black students admitted to top-tier schools suffer because the courses are too difficult. Scalia commented: \"There are those who contend that it does not benefit African Americans to get them into the University of Texas, where they do not do well, as opposed to having them go to a less-advanced school, a slower-track school where they do well. One of the briefs pointed out that most of the black scientists in this country don't come from schools like the University of Texas. They come from lesser schools where they do not feel that they're being pushed ahead in classes that are too fast for them.\" The comments led to outcry from the University of Texas's African American students, and spurred the creation of the Twitter hashtag #StayMadAbby. As Justice Antonin Scalia died on February 13, 2016 and Justice Elena Kagan had recused herself, the case was decided by the seven remaining justices.\n\n\"Fisher II\" was decided by 4-3. The majority opinion was authored by Justice Kennedy and joined by Justices Ginsburg, Breyer, and Sotomayor. The majority upheld the lower court.\n\nThe opinion summarized that Fisher I set three controlling principles: strict scrutiny of affirmative action admissions processes, judicial deference to reasoned explanations of the decision to pursue student body diversity, and no judicial deference for the determination of whether the use of race in admissions processes is narrowly tailored. It then noted that the University of Texas' combined Top Ten Percent-holistic admission policy is unique and data on resulting diversity was limited; however, it noted that the university should regularly evaluate available data and \"tailor its approach in light of changing circumstances, ensuring that race plays no greater role than is necessary to meet its compelling interest.\"\n\nThe Court refused the petitioner's four arguments against the admissions policy. First, the Court upheld that the university's rationale for diversity-associated goals as \"sufficiently measurable to permit judicial scrutiny of the policies adopted to reach them,\" despite a lack of a numerical quota. The goals that the Court affirmed as sufficiently measurable included the \"destruction of stereotypes,\" promotion of \"cross-racial understanding,\" preparation of students for \"an increasingly diverse workforce and society,\" and cultivation of \"leaders with legitimacy in the eyes of the citizenry.\" Second, the court found that the university presented sufficient evidence to show that in the seven years between the Hopwood decision and the implementation of the combined academic-holistic admissions process, race-neutral policies and increased outreach efforts were insufficient to achieve these goals. Third, the court found that \"consideration of race has had a meaningful, if still limited, effect on the diversity of the University’s freshman class,\" and that such a limited effect \"should be a hallmark of narrow tailoring, not evidence of unconstitutionality.\" Finally, the court found that the petitioner failed \"to offer any meaningful way in which the University could have improved upon\" its prior race-neutral efforts to achieve diversity-associated goals, including expanding the Top Ten Percent rule, which would leave, as quoted from the \"Grutter\" decision, \"a gap in an admissions process seeking to create the multidimensional diversity\" envisioned by the \"Bakke\" decision.\n\nIn conclusion, the majority reiterated that the University has an ongoing obligation to use available data \"to assess whether changing demographics have undermined the need for a race-conscious policy; and to identify the effects, both positive and negative, of the affirmative-action measures it deems necessary.\"\n\nIn a lengthy dissent joined by Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Thomas, Justice Alito wrote that the university's stated interests in diversity were not sufficiently measurable and upon review were \"shifting\" as compared to those from Fisher I, \"unpersuasive, and, at times, less than candid.\" Though Alito noted that the articulated goals were \"laudable,\" he wrote that they were \"not concrete or precise,\" and \"offer[ed] no limiting principle for the use of racial preferences.\" Alito questioned how \"a court ever be able to determine whether stereotypes have been adequately destroyed\" or \"whether cross-racial understanding has been adequately achieved[.]\" He further noted that \"[i]f a university can justify racial discrimination simply by having a few employees opine that racial preferences are necessary to accomplish these nebulous goals, . . . then the narrow tailoring inquiry [of strict scrutiny] is meaningless. Courts will [effectively] be required to defer to the judgment of university administrators, and affirmative-action policies will be completely insulated from judicial review.\"\n\nAdditionally, Alito reiterated the circuit court dissent's claim that the Circuit Court majority believed that automatically admitted minority students were \"somehow more homogeneous, less dynamic, and more undesirably stereotypical than those admitted under holistic review.\"\n\nJustice Thomas also authored a dissent. In this dissent, he reiterated the thoughts expressed in his concurrence in Fisher I, namely that \"a State’s use of race in higher education admissions decisions is categorically prohibited by the Equal Protection Clause.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "322910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322910", "title": "Government of the 3rd Dáil", "text": "Government of the 3rd Dáil\n\nThe 3rd Dáil was elected at the 1922 general election on 16 June 1922 and lasted 437 days.\n\nThe 2nd Provisional Government (30 August 1922 – 6 December 1922) was formed by Pro-Treaty faction of Sinn Féin. It came to office following the election of the Third Dáil on 16 June 1922. The cabinet came to an end when it was superseded by a new cabinet, the 1st Executive Council of the Irish Free State.\n\nIts formation brought to an end the anomalous system of dual administration that had existed since January, of government under two cabinets simultaneously, the 4th Ministry under Arthur Griffith, and the 1st Provisional Government under Michael Collins. Following the death of Collins and Griffith in August 1922, W. T. Cosgrave decided to merge the two administrations, with himself as head of both. The new cabinet was therefore both the 2nd Provisional Government and the 5th Ministry, while Cosgrave was officially both Chairman of the Provisional Government of the Irish Free State and President of the Republic. Both cabinets were finally, formally abolished when the new Constitution of the Irish Free State came into force in December.\n\nThe 1st Executive Council of the Irish Free State (6 December 1922 – 19 September 1923) was formed by Pro-Treaty faction of Sinn Féin, which later became the Cumann na nGaedheal party. The Constitution of the Irish Free State came into force in December 1922 and under its terms the Second Provisional Government was replaced by the Executive Council.\n\nHowever elections were not held for the 4th Dáil until August 1923 and so the membership of the 1st Executive Council closely reflected that of the Second Provisional Government of Southern Ireland that had preceded it. The 1st Executive Council was replaced by the 2nd Executive Council shortly after the 1923 general election.\n\nThe government positions are listed in alphabetical order, rather than in terms of seniority.\n\n"}
{"id": "20847893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847893", "title": "Gun laws in Kuwait", "text": "Gun laws in Kuwait\n\nGun laws in Kuwait include stringent gun control. The law does allow firearms to be licensed under specific conditions and regulations:\n\n1- Kuwaiti ( or have an exception from Minister of Interior to own)\n2- Age must be above 25 years old and fully capable of handling a weapon. \n3- Must have no criminal records. \n4- Must not be a suspect or under police surveillance. \n5- Must have an occupation or a source of living (must not be homeless or have no source of income).\n6- application should be submitted to the \nminister by the criminal investigation.\n\nUsually hunting shotguns are the most common licensed weapons in Kuwait also the easiest to get it licensed, hunting and sniper rifles are more difficult to be licensed but firearms chambered for .22 LR are more commonly licensed, whether with threaded or unthreaded barrel\n\nAutomatic rifles or machine guns are not allowed to be licensed in Kuwait but many houses do have such illegal weapons that are either taken by the Kuwaiti resistance of the Iraqi invasion in 1990 or taken during the end of Gulf War when the Iraqi army retreated.\n"}
{"id": "19269755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19269755", "title": "Guo Huaiyi rebellion", "text": "Guo Huaiyi rebellion\n\nThe Guo Huaiyi rebellion (; also spelled Kuo Huai-i Rebellion) was a peasant revolt by Chinese farmers against Dutch rule in Taiwan in 1652. Sparked by dissatisfaction with heavy Dutch taxation on them but not the aborigines and extortion by low-ranking Dutch officials and servicemen, the rebellion initially gained ground before being crushed by a coalition of Dutch soldiers and their aboriginal allies. It is considered the most important uprising against the Dutch during the 37-year period of their colonisation of Taiwan.\n\nThe burden of Dutch taxes on the Chinese inhabitants of Taiwan was a source of much resentment. The falling price of venison, a chief export of the island at the time, hit licensed hunters hard, as the cost of the licenses was based on meat prices before the depreciation. The head tax (which only applied to Chinese, not aborigines) was also deeply unpopular, and thirdly, petty corruption amongst Dutch soldiers further angered the Chinese residents.\n\nThe revolt was led by Guo Huaiyi (; 1603–1652), a sugarcane farmer and militia leader originally from Quanzhou known to the Dutch by the name Gouqua Faijit, or Gouqua Faet. After his planning for an insurrection on 17 September 1652 was leaked to the Dutch authorities, he decided to waste no time in attacking Fort Provintia, which at the time was only surrounded by a bamboo wall. On the night of 7 September the rebels, mostly peasants-farmers armed with bamboo spears, stormed the fort.\n\nThe following morning a company of 120 Dutch musketeers came to the rescue of their trapped countrymen, firing steadily into the besieging rebel forces and breaking them. Governor Nicolas Verburg On 11 September the Dutch learned that the rebels had massed just north of the principal Dutch settlement of Tayouan. Sending a large force of Dutch soldiers and aboriginal warriors, they met the rebels that day in battle and emerged victorious, mainly due to the superior weaponry of the Europeans.\n\nMultiple Aboriginal villages in frontier areas rebelled against the Dutch in the 1650s due to oppression like when the Dutch ordered aboriginal women for sex, deer pelts, and rice be given to them from aborigines in the Taipei basin in Wu-lao-wan village which sparked a rebellion in December 1652 at the same time as the Chinese rebellion. The Wu-lao-wan beheaded two Dutch translators, and in a subsequent fight with 30 Wu-lao-wan two Dutch people died, but after an embargo of salt and iron the Wu-lao-wan were forced to sue for peace in February 1653.\n\nOver the following days, the remnants of Guo's army were either slaughtered by aboriginal warriors or melted back into the villages they came from, with Guo Huaiyi himself being shot, then decapitated, with his head displayed on a spike as a warning. In total some 4,000 Chinese were killed during the five-day uprising, approximately 1 in 10 Chinese living in Taiwan at that time. The Dutch responded by reinforcing Fort Provintia (building brick walls instead of the previous bamboo fence) and by monitoring Chinese settlers more closely. However, they did not address the roots of the concerns which had caused the Chinese to rebel in the first place.\n\nHowever, the Taiwanese Aboriginal tribes who were previously allied with the Dutch against the Chinese during the Guo Huaiyi Rebellion in 1652 turned against the Dutch during the later Siege of Fort Zeelandia and defected to Koxinga's Chinese forces. The Aboriginals (Formosans) of Sincan defected to Koxinga after he offered them amnesty; they proceeded to work for the Chinese and behead Dutch people in executions. The frontier aboriginals in the mountains and plains also surrendered and defected to the Chinese on 17 May 1661, celebrating their freedom from compulsory education under Dutch rule by hunting down Dutch people and beheading them and trashing their Christian school textbooks.\n"}
{"id": "29056187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29056187", "title": "HM Advocate v Sheridan and Sheridan", "text": "HM Advocate v Sheridan and Sheridan\n\nHer Majesty's Advocate v Thomas Sheridan and Gail Sheridan was the 2010 criminal prosecution of Tommy Sheridan, a former Member of the Scottish Parliament and his wife Gail Sheridan for perjury in relation to the earlier civil case \"Sheridan v News Group Newspapers\". Tommy Sheridan was found guilty and sentenced to three years in prison, whereas Gail was acquitted.\n\nIn 2006, Tommy Sheridan, formerly convenor of the Scottish Socialist Party (SSP), successfully sued the newspaper \"News of the World\" for defamation after they printed a series of articles containing allegations that an MSP had had affairs and visited a sex club. Sheridan was awarded £200,000 in damages, which he has still not received pending an appeal. Controversy over the case led to a split in the SSP shortly afterwards, with Sheridan forming a breakaway party, Solidarity.\n\nIn August 2006, a number of SSP activists came forward to claim that Sheridan had held meetings with them, where he made admissions inconsistent with his evidence in the court case, in particular admitting that he had had affairs and visited a swingers' club in Manchester. In October 2006, the \"News of the World\" released a videotape which showed Sheridan admitting that he had visited the club, and admitting that he had admitted this to the SSP Executive.\n\nOn 2 October 2006, the Procurator Fiscal decided that there were grounds for an investigation into perjury, and instructed Lothian and Borders Police to proceed. In February 2007, the Crown Office asked Lothian and Borders Police undertake a full inquiry after receiving a preliminary report, which was scaled up in May 2007, with the number of officers assigned to the case doubling to 20.\n\nDuring late 2006 and early 2007, the police interviewed several SSP members and other witnesses, and seized computing equipment that had been used to type the minutes of SSP meetings.\n\nIn December 2007, Tommy Sheridan was charged with perjury. During February 2008, six more people were charged with perjury: Graeme McIver, John Penman, Pat Smith and Rosemary Byrne (all members of Sheridan's new party Solidarity who had been at the disputed SSP executive meeting of November 2004) plus Sheridan's wife, Gail and her father, Angus Healy.\n\nAlso in February 2008, Gail Sheridan was suspended from her job as a flight attendant with British Airways over the alleged theft of miniature bottles of alcohol. Later in the year she was cleared of the allegations of theft and re-instated to her job with BA. In 2010 she took voluntary redundancy from that job.\n\nAt a preliminary hearing at the High Court in Edinburgh on 13 July 2009, the indictment against Tommy and Gail Sheridan was made public. Both were charged with perjury in relation to several issues at the civil trial, and Tommy Sheridan was also charged with subornation of perjury by attempting to persuade Colin Fox to commit perjury at this trial.\n\nBoth accused took pleas in bar of trial on the basis of prejudicial pre-trial publicity, and sought to raise devolution minutes. At a preliminary hearing at the High Court in Edinburgh between 28 and 30 July 2010, the trial judge Lord Bracadale, heard legal arguments on these matters. At the close of the hearing, the preliminary pleas were repelled and the devolution minutes refused. Due to the high-profile nature of the case, Lord Bracadale took the somewhat unusual step of issuing a note, setting forth his reasons for repelling the preliminary pleas and detailing his directions given to the jury with respect to media publicity.\n\nThe prosecution was led by Alex Prentice QC, his junior was David Nicolson.\n\nInitially, Sheridan hired Donald Findlay QC to defend him, but he later dropped him in favour of Margaret Scott QC, who represented Abdelbaset al-Megrahi in an appeal against his conviction for the Lockerbie bombing. Junior counsel for Sheridan was Shelagh McCall. Gail was represented by Paul McBride QC and Billy Lavelle, her solicitor was John Paul Mowbray.\n\nOn 11 October it was announced that Sheridan had dismissed Margaret Scott, and would conduct his own defence. He retained his solicitor Aamer Anwar, who the judge appointed as amicus curiae.\n\nThe full trial started on 4 October 2010 at the Glasgow High Court before Lord Bracadale, with a jury of 13 women and 2 men, mostly younger women with one ethnic minority juror. On 15 December the judge excused one of the women jurors from serving further, the trial continued with 14 jurors.\n\nOn 25 November and again on 2 and 20 December the prosecution removed a number of charges from the indictment.\n\nAn important issue was the crucial SSP executive meeting of 9 November 2004, where Sheridan resigned as convenor. 16 witnesses who were present claimed that he did admit to visiting Cupids sex club in Manchester at this meeting. Barbara Scott, the minute secretary, claimed that the minutes and her notes support this claim.\nAn important piece of evidence was a tape which was filmed secretly a few days after this meeting, showing Sheridan making a \"foul-mouthed tirade\" containing statements inconsistent with his evidence in the civil trial. Under cross-examination Alan McCombes denied scripting the video, as alleged by Sheridan. Bob Bird, Scottish editor of the \"News of the World\", gave evidence about how the paper acquired the tape. While giving evidence, Bird said that emails relating to Sheridan may have been lost. The next day Tom Watson MP contacted the Information Commissioner, asking him to investigate whether the \"News of the World\" was in breach of the Data Protection Act.\n\nKatrine Trolle, a Danish woman who was the SSP candidate in Aberdeen North in the Scottish Parliament election, 2003, claimed that she had had an affair with Sheridan (on one occasion in the bedroom in his home in Glasgow) and visited Cupids sex club with him on 27 September 2002. This was supported by a former housemate of Trolle and her ex-boyfriend who claimed that Sheridan spent the night with Trolle at her home in Dundee. Gary Clark, a former professional footballer and childhood friend of Sheridan, claimed to have visited a club in Manchester with Sheridan which showed pornographic videos. Anvar Khan, a \"News of the World\" journalist, claimed that she had visited Cupids sex club with Sheridan and had an affair with him. This was supported by a former neighbour of Khan, who claimed to have seen Khan and Sheridan appear from the direction of a bedroom. A former worker in Cupids and another witness claimed to have seen Sheridan in Cupids. A number of SSP activists also claimed that in the course of discussions Sheridan had made admissions about his personal life inconsistent with his evidence in the civil trial.\n\nThe final chapter of the prosecution case involved a sex party which Sheridan allegedly attended at the Moat House Hotel in Glasgow. All charges related to this matter were dropped following Crown witness Matt McColl's testimony and cross examination. During his appearance in court he was warned for contempt of court due to his reluctance to name his then girlfriend and now wife, as well as agreeing he had previously told police that Mr Sheridan had not been at the Moat House.\n\nOn 2 December the prosecution completed its case. It dropped the charge of subornation of perjury on the grounds of lack of corroboration, and some points from the charges of perjury against both Sheridans.\n\nThe defence opened its case on 3 December, both Sheridans declined to act as a witnesses themselves. Many of the witnesses called by Sheridan were members of Solidarity, his own party, including Hugh Kerr, Rosemary Byrne and Mike Gonzalez. He also called Andy Coulson, Downing Street director of communications and former \"News of the World\" editor, who denied that he had any knowledge of phone hacking at the \"News of the World\", or that he knew Glenn Mulcaire, the private detective at the centre of controversy. Tom Watson had briefed Sheridan's team about alleged phone hacking a few days earlier.\nFour witnesses who were present at the crucial SSP executive meeting of 9 November 2004 claimed that Sheridan did \"not\" admit to visiting a sex club at the meeting.\n\nOn 17 December the defence case completed. The prosecution then dropped the last remaining charge against Gail Sheridan, who was acquitted by the judge. Later that day her solicitor made a statement on her behalf outside the court thanking her legal team.\n\nAlex Prentice gave his closing speech on 20 December. Sheridan gave his closing speech on 21–22 December, Lord Bracadale gave his summing-up, the jury then retired to consider their verdict and were later sent home for the night.\n\nOn 23 December the jury found Sheridan guilty of five of the six outstanding charges of perjury, by majority verdict. The only one where they acquitted him was lying about his alleged affair with Anvar Khan, they also deleted the mention of lying about having sex with Katrine Trolle in his home. He was bailed pending background reports.\n\nOn 26 January he was sentenced to three years in prison. On both days Gail Sheridan made a statement outside the court saying that she was standing by her husband.\n\nSheridan was released on license on 30 January 2012, having served just over one year of his sentence.\n\nAfter the trial, the Crown Office issued a statement saying that no further action would be taken against six other people charged with perjury in relation to the civil trial, five of Sheridan's associates (see above) and Fiona McGuire. Two witnesses who clashed with the judge avoided punishment.\n\nSheridan stated that he may appeal, possibly over trial judge's decision to stop Scottish comic Des McLean, who previously impersonated Sheridan on the radio, from giving evidence, and on the grounds of the failure of the \"News of the World\" to hand over crucial e-mails to the defence. He may produce three new witnesses to give him an alibi for the date when he was supposed to be at Cupids, although doubts have been expressed about one person's claims.\n\nBBC Scotland broadcast a radio drama based on the trial, with Gavin Mitchell as Tommy Sheridan, Karen Dunbar as Gail, and Julie Wilson Nimmo as Katrine Trolle.\n\nOn 24 December 2010, Tommy Sheridan lodged an intimation of intention to appeal against his conviction. In June 2011, leave to appeal was refused by a single judge at the first sift. This decision was appealed to a bench of three judges. On 5 August 2011, it was reported in the press that leave to appeal had been refused at the second sift \n\nIn the light of the News of the World phone hacking affair, the Crown Office instructed the Strathclyde Police to reassess the evidence. However Paul McBride stated that he did not believe that this affair had any bearing on Sheridan's conviction.\n\nA complaint submitted to Strathclyde Police in July 2011 led to Operation Rubicon, a major investigation involving 50 officers investigating allegations of phone hacking, breach of data protection and perjury by News of the World.\n\nAlex Prentice has continued his legal career, twice winning a murder conviction without a body in 2012. Paul McBride died suddenly in early 2012. A few people involved in the case were candidates in the May 2012 Glasgow City Council election: Gail Sheridan, and Frances Curran and Joyce Drummond who were witnesses.\n\nThere have since been a few books written on the case: \"Downfall\" by Alan McCombes, \"Tommy Sheridan: From Hero to Zero? A Political Biography\" by Gregor Gall, and \"A Parcel of Rogues\" by Jim Monaghan.\n\nOn 30 May 2012 Andy Coulson was charged with perjury in relation to this case. In August 2012 Douglas Wight was charged with various offences in relation to the case, and Bob Bird was charged with various offences in relation to the earlier civil case. On 3 June 2015, Coulson was acquitted after the case against him was dismissed by a judge. The cases against Wight and Bird were also dropped without coming to trial.\n\nOn 20 July 2012 it was reported that Lothian and Borders Police had referred a police officer who interrogated Gail Sheridan to the Procurator Fiscal, on the basis that criminal offences may have been committed during one of her interviews.\n\nA play about the case, \"I, Tommy\", has had three runs in Scotland, the third with Rosie Kane playing herself.\n\nIn 2015 the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission declined to refer the case to the High Court.\n\n"}
{"id": "31164007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31164007", "title": "Heblish", "text": "Heblish\n\nHeblish, less frequently Hebglish or Engbrew, portmanteaux combining the words \"Hebrew\" and \"English\", is a slang term for a macaronic combination of the two languages, or code-switching between them in the same conversation or writing. This may be as a result of poor knowledge of one language or the other or both, or may be usage for introducing a humorous effect.\n\nHebglish usually consists of either filling in gaps in one's knowledge of Hebrew with English words, speaking Hebrew in such a manner that (although ostensibly \"Hebrew\") would be incomprehensible to a Hebrew language speaker who does not also have a working knowledge of English.\n\nIt is also used in bilingual songs in Hebrew and English for appealing to audiences not proficient in Hebrew within Israel or internationally.\n\nOther terms are used, some connecting with Yiddish rather than with Hebrew, and code-switching may be for representation of religious or cultural affiliation in speech, rather than language transfer reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "51675962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51675962", "title": "Homelessness in Sweden", "text": "Homelessness in Sweden\n\nHomelessness in Sweden affects some 34,000 people.\n\nThe Swedish government's response to homelessness has included commissioning national surveys on homelessness during the last decade that allow for direct comparison between Sweden, Denmark and Norway. The three countries have very similar definitions of homelessness, with minor variations.\n\nSome researchers maintain that measures to counteract homelessness in Sweden are largely dependent on a general premise equating homelessness with addiction, mental illness and deviance. On the other hand, youth homelessness is considered a child protection problem.\n\nThere are several street newspapers in Sweden. \"Situation Sthlm\", was founded in 1995 and was Sweden's only street newspaper until \"Faktum\" and \"Aluma\" were founded early in the 2000s.\n\nIn 2006 the three street newspapers were awarded the grand prize of Publicistklubben (Swedish Publicists' Association).\n\nIn 2013, a Swedish tech company created software for the homeless newspaper vendors to accept credit card payments via a mobile app.\n\nIn 2015, a Swedish art exhibition at Malmö Konsthall titled “The Alien Within: A Living Laboratory of Western Society” included two homeless people from Romania. The homeless people were not accepting money from visitors but were paid at hourly rate by the event organizers.\n\nResearchers have found that excess mortality among homeless men and women in Stockholm is entirely related to alcohol and drug abuse.\n\nSome researchers have conducted studies on the oral health of homeless people in Sweden and found that they have fewer remaining teeth than the general population.\n"}
{"id": "11336659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11336659", "title": "Human rights in the British Virgin Islands", "text": "Human rights in the British Virgin Islands\n\nIn practice, basic human rights in the British Virgin Islands (BVI) appear to be respected. Reports of repression of freedom of speech, interference with democracy or the rule of law, and arbitrary arrest and torture are generally unknown. The BVI have been described as “generally free of human rights abuses.” \n\nHowever, the laws in the British Virgin Islands do openly discriminate against people who do not hold what is called “belonger status.” This form of discrimination is expressly preserved in the BVI constitution, which excludes non-belongers from the full scope of its non-discrimination protections. Belongers and non-belongers share unequal rights to employment and to the right to purchase property, and in certain cases non-belongers are made subject to higher rates of taxation. Also, expats in certain professions, their families and children, are subject to exploitation and abuse which their status makes it more difficult for them to challenge.\n\nHuman rights in the British Virgin Islands are codified in the 2007 constitution.\n\nSection 9 of the constitution is entitled \"Fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual\", and provides:\nThe subsequent sections of the constitution enumerate and elaborate on certain specific basic human rights, including the right to life, equality before the law, protection from inhuman treatment, protection from slavery and forced labour, the right of prisoners to humane treatment, freedom of movement, freedom of conscience, the right to education, freedom of expression, and freedom of assembly and association.\n\nThe constitution also provides for the formation of a Human Rights Commission to oversee and ensure the protection of human rights, although to date no such commission has been formed.\n\nIn 2017 legislation was introduced in the House of Assembly of the British Virgin Islands to provide for a Commission, but the legislative process became delayed when Hurricane Irma struck the Territory and the Bill has not yet been passed into law.\n\nThe British Virgin Islands Criminal Code creates certain specific criminal offences relating to human rights, such as genocide, but does not contain any general statement of human rights.\n\nAlthough the BVI have their own constitution and laws, the United Kingdom government retains sovereign power over the islands, and from time to time has exercised that power by issuing so-called “orders-in-council” that have imposed certain laws upon the BVI, including human rights protections, the spirit of which is contrary to the desires of the majority of BVI residents. For example, the UK abolished the BVI's death penalty for murder in 1991, and decriminalised homosexuality on the islands in 2000.\n\nThe following UN human rights conventions and covenants apply to the BVI:\nUnited Nations Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination,\n1965 (CERD)\nInternational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966 (ICESCR)\nInternational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1966 (ICCPR)\nUnited Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against\nWomen, 1979 (CEDAW)\nUnited Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989 (CRC)\nThe British Virgin Islands courts have also held that the European Convention on Human Rights applies in the Territory through the jurisdiction's constitutional relationship with the United Kingdom. However the applicability is limited in that it does not include any right of petition or any of the extant protocols.\n\nThe BVI government established the Human Rights Reporting Coordinating Committee (HRRCC) in 1999 to monitor and report on human rights conditions on the islands. Since 2001, the HRRCC has also published pamphlets, held public meetings, and pursued other means of informing the people of BVI about their rights.\n\nA citizen of the BVI is known as a BOTC, or British Overseas Territories citizen. Since the passing of the British Overseas Territories Act, 2002 citizens of the BVI are also British citizens with a right to hold British passports and to work in the United Kingdom and wider European Union.\n\nIn addition to citizenship, however, there is a separate concept in the BVI that goes by the name of “belonger.” The definition of \"belonger\" status is complex, and is set out in article 2(2) of the Constitution, which provides:\n\nA \"non-belonger\" simply means any person who is not a belonger.\n\nIt is also possible for non-belongers and non-BOTCs to obtain a lesser status known as \"residency\". This exempts the holder of residency status from the requirement to obtain a work permit in relation to employment and from the requirement to obtain a land-holding licence if they wish to purchase property. However having residency status does not entitle a person to vote or to hold a British Virgin Islands passport.\n\nWhile belongers have an automatic right to work on the islands, non-belongers, as a rule, require work permits. Under the Labour Code 2010, a prospective employer faced with choosing between a belonger who is minimally qualified for the job and a non-belonger who has far higher qualifications must choose the belonger. Non-belongers are not permitted to remain in the BVI unless they are working and have a work permit. Such permits must be renewed every year. A non-belonger who changes jobs must apply for a new work permit, which the Commissioner of Labour may or may not choose to grant. \n\nNon-belongers in relatively unskilled jobs undergo various kinds of abuse and exploitation, including being forced to pay for the renewal of their work permits and being denied new work permits for prospective new jobs. \n\nThe lack of unions for non-belonger workers in many areas restricts their ability to complain effectively about mistreatment.\n\nWhile belongers have an automatic right to buy property on the islands, non-belongers may purchase property only after the seller has undergone an extensive process of demonstrating that he or she has made a serious but unsuccessful effort to find a belonger interested in buying the property. Also, any belonger wanting to buy property is subject to an investigation by authorities before the sale may go through. In addition, permission for the non-belonger to buy a piece of property may be subject to certain conditions, such as a ban on renting out the property.\n\nSince 2001, it has become more difficult under BVI law to acquire belonger status. \n\nA person born in the BVI with one or two belonger parents is automatically considered a belonger and is also a BOTC. \n\nPersons born in the BVI before 1983 are considered belongers and BOTC. Persons born in the BVI in 2001 or later to parents who are not under Immigration Department control are belongers and BOTC.\n\nPersons born in the BVI before 2001 to parents who are Commonwealth citizens are considered belongers. \n\nA person born in the BVI to a BOTC mother or (legitimately) to a BOTC father is considered a BOTC but not necessarily a belonger. A person who enjoys BOTC status by virtue of parentage but who was not born in the BVI is not necessarily a belonger.\n\nA person born or resident in the BVI who does not fall into any of the above categories is not considered a belonger or a BOTC and is regarded as a temporary immigrant, although belongership and BOTC can be acquired through marriage or application, as described below. \n\nNon-belonger women married to men who are belongers by birth, immediate descent,\nor naturalisation, or who received a belonger certificate between 1967 and 2001, also become belongers, unless they were divorced before 2001. \n\nA non-belonger who married a belonger in 2001 or later may apply for belonger status after five years of marriage and BVI residence in the BVI. Persons who have spent a year or more in prison for committing a criminal offense are denied this status in such cases, however. \n\nNon-belonger individuals who wish to acquire permanent resident status (that is, to hold a Certificate of Residence), must apply to the Immigration Department. The ensuing bureaucratic process may take years.\n\nAn individual over age 18 who was born in or is a resident of the BVI may apply to the governor for belonger status after living in the BVI for at least 10 years and holding a certificate of residence for at least one year. The governor has no obligation to confer belonger status in such situations. \n\nA person who has not been under Immigration Department control for at least one year and who has lived in the BVI for at least five years (three if married to a BOTC) may apply to the governor for BOTC status, which would also carry with it belonger status.\n\nThe minor children of parents who have been granted a certificate of residence or belonger status may also be granted the same status as their parents.\n\nThe rights of gay men, lesbians, bisexuals, and transgender people in the British Virgin Islands are relatively restricted as compared with their rights in most Western countries, including the United Kingdom. Before 2000, the BVI criminal code considered “buggery” a crime. Same-sex activity was decriminalised in that year by an Order in Council by the British government, which acted only under pressure from the EU and UN and against the wishes of the majority of BVI residents.\n\nThe office of the governor of the BVI organised a week-long program on “Building Human Rights Capacity” in July 2011, intended to improve the understanding and observance of human rights on the part of government officials, law-enforcement officers, immigration officials, and private citizens. \n\nThe group Related by Humanity seeks “to promote Human Rights awareness in the Territory of the Virgin Islands.” On December 10, 2011, it organized the islands' first official celebration of International Human Rights Day in hope that greater awareness could be brought to this very real and harrowing issue.\n\nRecent reports of human rights incidents in the BVI.\n\n"}
{"id": "6184856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6184856", "title": "Human rights in the State of Palestine", "text": "Human rights in the State of Palestine\n\nHuman rights in the Palestinian Territories refers to the human rights record in the West Bank and Gaza.\n\nFreedom House's annual survey of political rights and civil liberties, Freedom in the World 2001-2002, reported that civil liberties declined \"due to the shooting deaths of Palestinian civilians by Palestinian security personnel; the summary trials and executions of alleged collaborators by the Palestinian Authority (PA); extrajudicial killings of suspected collaborators by militias; and the apparent official encouragement of Palestinian youths to confront Israeli soldiers, thus placing them directly in harm's way.\"\nThe Palestinian Human Rights Monitoring Group reports \"everyday disagreements and clashes between the various political factions, families and cities that a complete picture of Palestinian society is painted. These divisions have during the course of the al Aqsa Intifada also led to an increasingly violent 'Intra'fada'.\n\nThe PA has guaranteed freedom of assembly to the Palestinian population, and its Legislation states this. Nevertheless, the right to demonstrate for opponents of the PA regime or of PA policy has become increasingly subject to police control and restriction and is a source of concern for human rights groups.\n\nActivists say there is a growing crackdown on writers who criticize the Palestinian Government. According to Executive Director of Advancing Human Rights David Keyes, in 2013, Anas Awwad, a 26-year-old Palestinian activist, was sentenced in absentia by a Palestinian court in Nablus, the West Bank, to one year in prison for “extending his tongue” against the Palestinian Authority’s president, Mahmoud Abbas, on Facebook. Keyes also states that in 2012, Palestinian blogger Jamal Abu Rihan was arrested by the Palestinian Authority for starting a Facebook campaign called “The People Want an End to Corruption,” he was indicted under the charges of\"extending his tongue\" against the Palestinian leadership.\n\nIn April 2012, a West Bank university lecturer Ismat Abdul-Khaleq was arrested for criticizing Abbas on Facebook.\nSubsequently, agents belonging to the PA’s Preventive Security Service in Ramallah arrested Tarek Khamis, who works for Palestinian Zaman Press news agency. He was detained for criticizing the Palestinian Authority’s treatment of Ms. Abdul-Khaleq and for the criticizing the clampdown on journalists in the West Bank.\nAccording to David Keyes, George Canawati, the director of a Bethlehem radio station and the journalist Rami Samar were detained for posting criticisms of the Palestinian Authority on Facebook.\n\nThreats of death were made against Minister Nabil Shaath for planning to participate in a conference in Italy attended by Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom by the Jenin Martyrs Brigades, the armed wing of the Popular Resistance Committees. They declared, \"He will be sentenced to death if he enters. The decision cannot be rescinded, we call upon his bodyguards to abandon his convoy in order to save their lives.\"\n\nNabil Amar, former Minister of Information and a cabinet member and a member of the Palestinian Legislative Council, was shot by masked gunmen after criticizing Arafat and calling for reforms in the PA in a television interview.\n\nA Hamas-run council in the West Bank came under international criticism in 2005 for barring an open-air music and dance festival, on the basis of being \"against Islam\".\n\nFebruary 2016, Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Monitor has issued report documenting freedom of expression violations in both West Bank and Gaza strip. The Euro-Med report, \"Strangulation Twice: the Oppressive Practices of Palestinian Security Services,\" documents 1,274 arbitrary detentions in the West Bank in 2015 and 1,089 summonses to appear in front of the police or “interior security.” Most of these actions by the Palestinian Authority targeted individuals affiliated with Hamas or who opposed PA policies. In Gaza, 117 arbitrary detentions and 98 orders to appear were attributed last year to Hamas, which governs the Strip. Like their PA counterparts, the security forces primarily targeted political opponents. The monitor said that the number of human rights violations committed by PA authorities in the West Bank were significantly greater than those for which Hamas was responsible. However, both organizations are guilty of censorship and oppression. The Euro-Med monitor called both sides, the PA and Hamas, to issue a clear and binding resolution mandating freedom of expression and prohibiting all forms of abusive detention.\n\nIn August 2016, Human Rights Watch published a report about Palestine discussing the freedom of expression in the Palestinian territories. The international organization documented the case of Majd Khawaja, 22, who was arrested by security forces at intelligence headquarter. Khawaja was accused of painting the word (intifada) uprising on a wall, having weapons and planning to smuggle people into Jordan. He was subjected to physical torture during interrogation. He published some songs about the corruption of the PA which considered as a criminal offense; The songs were removed from YouTube.\n\nAugust 2016, Human Rights Watch published a report about Palestine discussing the freedom of expression in the Palestinian territories. The international organization documented the case of Mutaz Abu Lihi, 21, who was arrested by security forces at intelligence headquarter according to court documents, the Palestinian prosecution charged Abu Lihi and his rappers fellows with creating strife, under article 150 of penal code, and criticizing a higher authority, under article 195. The prosecution said that Abu Lihi and others sprayed outdoor graffiti whose content was \"defamatory sentences that include insulting directed personally against the president of the state of Palestine and against the authorities\".\n\nDecember 2016, Euro Med Human Rights Monitors issued a report regarding the violation of human rights and the international law in Palestine. As the three lawmakers were staging a sit- in at the office of the international committee of the Red Cross, their parliamentary immunity was suspended by the Palestinian president- Mahmoud Abbas; two of them are accused of embezzlement, weapons smuggling and defamation; as well as they were prevented from the delivery of food, water and visits by journalists. The three lawmakers instead stated that the president committed this as a revenge against them due to their alliance with Mohammad Dahalan. According to the report, breaking the international committee of the Red Cross were considered as a violation of the international laws and conventions.The Palestinian authority's action was also in direct contradiction of the Palestinian executive system and its commitment to human rights standards as dictated by international agreements.\n\nAl-Mizan Center for Human Rights published a report about violating the right of expression in Gaza. Since the beginning of winter, the electricity cuts began to worsen more, which has negatively impacted on providing the two-million population basic needs. The electricity came on for four hours, followed by a 12-hour blackout. Due to the Israel's closure borders, there was a lack of fuel on the markets in Gaza as well as the humanitarian crisis got much worse: increasing the numbers of deaths, particularly among children and suffering the notably older, sick and disabled people living in the hundreds of high-rise building without elevator. As a protest against this bad life, on 12 January 2017, most of the thousands of people were gathered in Jabaliya refugee camp to demonstrate in front of the Electricity Company. Yet, the police separated them by shooting in the air and beating some people with cudgels. Accordingly, Mohammed Al Baba, a journalist at Agence France Presse, was sustained a cut over his left eye and his camera was seized as well as Fares Akram Al Ghoul, a journalist from the Associated Press, was assaulted by them. There are also six other people sustained bruises. As mentioned in the report, the police summoned groups of people for questioning and broke into houses to arrest people with a view of forcing them to sign an unclear documents committing themselves to “respecting the law” and to prevent them from disturbing so called \"public security\" despite their violating of the Gaza population's right to protest in peaceful way and give their expression.\n\nAs of 2006, sixteen Palestinian journalists have been killed or wounded by PA security forces or armed groups.\n\nAbdullah Issa, Palestinian publisher and editor of the on-line magazine \"Donia al Watan\" was detained in July 2006 by the Palestinian Authority for publishing a story about the theft of $400,000 from PA Foreign Minister Mahmoud Zahar while visiting Kuwait. The story cast aspersions on Hamas for having large amounts of cash while the Palestinian people were suffering from poverty. This story had appeared elsewhere in the Arabic media. Issa, accused Zahar and Hamas of interfering with freedom of the press in the Palestinian territories and expressed disappointment with Hamas's failure to reign in corruption as promised in their election platform: \"Our people have the right to hold Hamas accountable for the deterioration in their living conditions...We were hoping that the Hamas government would start chasing and arresting all the murderers and thugs who continue to roam the streets of the Gaza Strip and to open all the cases of financial corruption.\" \"Donia al Watan\"'s offices have been attacked by masked gunmen and there have been death threats against Issa and staff.\n\nThe Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades has been blamed for a number of attacks on journalists in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and the Arab television station Al-Arabiya's West Bank offices.\n\nIn September 2001, Yasser Arafat's Tanzim kidnapped a Palestinian cameraman who shot film showing Palestinian citizens and police in Ramallah celebrating on 9/11/2001 following the attacks on US targets, and threatened to kill the cameraman if the item the film was shown on air.\n\nIn September 2006, a journalist was severely beaten and all the computer equipment in the office of the Palestinian Authority's official news agency Wafa. Graffiti was sprayed on the wall accusing the agency of a lack of objectivity. Fatah officials noted that PA Foreign Minister Mahmoud Zahar has accused the agency \"of waging a motivated campaign of incitement\" against him and blamed Hamas for the attack. Khan Yunis governor Osama al-Farra condemned the attack, saying it, \"reflected the continued state of anarchy and lawlessness in PA-controlled areas\".\n\nThe Fatah–Hamas conflict has further limited the freedom of the press in the PNA territories and the distribution of opposing voices in Hamas-controlled Gaza and the West Bank where Fatah still has more influence. In July 2010, with the easing of the blockade of the Gaza Strip, Israel allowed the distribution of the pro-Fatah newspapers \"al Quds\", \"al Ayyam\" and \"al-Hayat al-Jadida\" to Gaza, but Hamas prevented Gazan distributors from retrieving the shipment. The Palestinian Centre for Human Rights (PCHR) condemned the Hamas restrictions of distribution of the West Bank newspapers in Gaza, and also condemned the Fatah-led government in the West Bank for restricting publication and distribution of the Gazan newspapers \"al-Resala\" and \"Falastin\".\n\nIn October 2012, the Palestinian Journalists Syndicate appealed for the release of Palestinian journalists arrested by the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank, warning that freedom of the press had \"seriously deteriorated,\" and that the Palestinian Authority had arrested five Palestinian journalists in September 2012. Walid Khaled, a journalist for the Palestinian newspaper Falasteen, began a hunger strike in September as well. A Palestinian judge ordered his release, but the Palestinian Authority has ignored this. The Palestinian Authority has arrested these journalists on suspicisions of having connections to Hamas, a rival which controls the Gaza Strip.\n\nIn May 2015, Al-Jazeera journalist Muhammed Fayyad was reportedly assaulted by multiple police officers while covering a Turkish minister's visit to the Gazan Ministry of Endowments. Fayyad, who said he \"was struck on the head by a police officer\" as he was ejected from the building, was later arrested. Gaza's Ministry of Internal Affairs released a statement that faulted \"some journalists\" for \"chaos and a disturbance that misrepresented our people's image and embarrassed those responsible for the visit's agenda,\" and claimed that Fayyad was released pending further investigation.\n\nIn 2000 the Palestinian the first Palestinian Labor Law. However, according to the Democracy and Workers' Rights Center (DWRC) the final draft lacked teeth; late in 2005, working with Palestinian Authority legal experts, DWRC successfully achieved Palestinian Legislative Council acceptance of an alternative Palestinian Labor Law.\n\nThe decades-old Palestinian General Federation of Trade Unions (PGFTU), which claims to represent all Palestinian workers, was incorporated into the PA upon its inception. Independent unionists assert the PGFTU lacks in internal democracy and transparency, and is dominated by Fateh (all of its general secretaries and most of its unit heads have come from Fateh). In a 2007 press release carried by the Advocacy Project, DWRC noted that internal elections had not been held since 1981. These critiques have been supported by scholars Joost Hiltermann, Nina Sovich and Sos Nissen, who argue that the PGFTU has long been dominated by political factions and has in turn failed to provide effective representation for workers.\n\nAccording to the PGFTU, in June 2007 Hamas seized their headquarters and ordered PGFTU staff to discuss how they were to operate under Hamas rule. According to the PGFTU general secretary, the PGFTU's refusal to negotiate led Hamas to attempt to assassinate Rasem Al Bayari, the union's deputy general secretary, three times thereafter. According to Al-Jazeera, \"Saed, who has been linked to Fatah, said Hamas executive forces had seized two more offices - in Gaza and Khan Younis - taking much of the property within.\"\n\nIn 2007, when DWRC organized the Federation of Independent and Democratic Trade Unions & Workers' Committees in Palestine representing 50,000 workers outside of the PGFTU, the PGFTU retaliated by informing on the Gaza head of DWRC and the independent trade union coalition to Palestinian internal security, claiming that they were affiliated with Hamas.\n\nIn the Palestinian National Authority, selling land to Jews is a crime punishable by death.\n\nMany Jewish and Christian holy sites remain in areas controlled by the Palestinian National Authority. Under the Oslo Accords, both the Palestinians and Israel agreed to respect and protect religious rights of Jews, Christians, Muslims, and Samaritans by a) protecting the Holy Sites, 2) providing free access to the Holy Sites, and assuring freedom of worship and practice.\na. Protection of the Holy Sites;\nb. Free access to the Holy Sites; and\nc. Freedom of worship and practice.\nThe PA, however, has in some cases failed to honor these commitments (see sections below).\n\nA Christian leader claimed that there were \"rampant reports\" of abuses and persecution in PA-run areas. Anti-Christian riots were reported in Ramallah and surrounding villages, as well as in towns in the Gaza Strip. There were also reports of violation of human rights of Christians in the PA-run areas.\n\nIn April 2006, major Muslim organizations, local mosques, the city's Mufti and municipal leaders in the West Bank town Qalqiliya requested the interior minister of the Palestinian Authority shut down the Young Men's Christian Association, which had operated in the town since 2000, due to missionary activity. The manager of the YMCA denied this: \"It's not what we're about. There is no missionary activity here whatsoever. The YMCA is in the city to serve the population with financial help, sporting activities and general educational programs,\" and pointing to the organization's employment of many Muslims, their establishment of community programs including financing a mostly Muslim soccer club that had competed in national games. The town's Muslim leadership issued a petition demanding that the organization close down the Qalqiliya branch or face violence which read as follows: \"We the preachers of the mosques and representatives of major families in Qalqiliya ask you to close the offices of the YMCA because the population of Qalqiliya doesn't need such offices, especially since there are not many Christians in our city...\" It warned, \"The act of these institutions of the YMCA, including attempting to convert Muslims in our city, will bring violence and tension.\" Three days before the delivery of this petitions, many imams spoke about the issue during Friday prayers; the following day Molotov cocktails were thrown at Qalqiliya's YMCA. In September 2006, the YMCA was given a \"final notification\" by local leaders. On 11 September 2006, the organization's building was broken into and torched by assailants identified by members of the local government as members of Hamas and Islamic Jihad well-known to local security forces.\n\nDuring 2007 many Western and Christian targets were attacked in the West Bank and Gaza. Members of local gangs and terror cells blew up and destroyed institutions linked to Western culture such as American schools, church libraries and dozens of Internet cafes. These events were largely ignored by the media.\n\nAccording to the U.S. State Department's Annual Report on Religious Freedom, 2000, \"there were periodic reports that some Christian converts from Islam who publicize their religious beliefs have been harassed. Converts complained that they were mistreated and threatened. The draft Palestinian Basic Law specifically forbids discrimination against individuals based on their religion; however, the PA did not take any action against persons accused of harassment\".\n\nAfter a visit to the Palestinian Authority administered areas, Senator Connie Mack related on the floor of the US Senate the case of a Christian convert from Islam who was falsely charged with selling land to Jews, arrested, beaten and tortured, and held for eight months without trial. Despite being released after his family borrowed thousands of dollars for bribes, his father continued to be held, he believed as insurance of his silence on the matter.\n\nJoseph's Tomb in Nablus was a site of clashes between Jews and Palestinians. The Israeli army agreed to withdraw from the site and turn over control to the Palestinian police, who had agreed to protect the site. Instead, they stood by while mobs ransacked the site and burned holy books.\n\nMoreover, prominent members of the PA have denied that there is any Jewish historical connection to many Jewish holy sites, and PA Ministries have embedded such ideas in their press releases:\n\nYasser Arafat:\n\nMufti Sheikh 'Ikrima Sabri:\n\nPA Information Ministry Press Release:\n\nAl-Hayat Al-Jadeeda, PA newspaper:\n\nAccording to the ministerial statistic collected in September 2005, there are 2267 schools in general education, 31,001 classes, 1078488 students, and 48674 teachers in the Palestinian territories. 24% of schools are UNRWA-operated, 70% are governmental, and 6% are private. Another survey conducted in May 2005 shows that there are 138,139 students enrolled in Higher Education Institutions. Between these students, 9002 (6.5%) are in community colleges, 6034 (4.4%) in university colleges, 46453 (33.6%) in Al-Quds Open University, and 76650 (55.5%) in traditional universities.\n\nMoves by the Hamas-run Education Ministry to impose Islamist ideals onto the educational system concern many Palestinians and outside observers. In March 2007, the Ministry pulled an anthology of folktales narrated by Palestinian women from the curriculum, removed the book from libraries, and reportedly destroyed 1,500 copies. The anthology was edited by Sharif Kanaana, a novelist and anthropology professor at Ramallah's Birzeit University, and Ibrahim Muhawi, a teacher of Arabic literature and the theory of translation. Education Minister Nasser Shaer said that the book is \"full of clear sexual expressions.\" A story entitled, \"The Little Bird,\" mentions private parts, and in the notes the authors say that, \"the bird in the story is a symbol of femininity and that sexual subjects are a principal source of humor in Palestinian folklore\".\n\nAccording to annual report of the Palestinian Human Rights Monitoring Group in 2005, 385 Palestinian fatalities were recorded. Of these, 222 Palestinians were killed by Israelis, 113 Palestinians were killed by Palestinians, and 50 Palestinians were killed in unclear circumstances. 9 Palestinians were killed by Israeli settlers. The same year, 51 Israelis were killed by Palestinians; 42 were civilians, 9 were members of the military. Palestinians killed 10 Palestinians suspected to be Israeli collaborators in 2005.\n\nIn December 2012, Arab Organization for Human Rights (AOHR) released a report that accused the Palestinian Authority (PA) of \"inhumane practices and human rights violations\" against Palestinian civilians. The AOHR alleges that from 2007-2011, the PA detained 13,271 Palestinians, and tortured 96% of them, resulting in six deaths. The report claims that PA law enforcement raided universities, hospitals and houses in order to arrest people wanted for protesting against the Israeli occupation. The report also relates that PA officers confiscated equipment and personal cash after arresting the suspects.\n\nCapital punishment is legal in the PA. The PA enacted 5 capital executions in 2005.\n\nAmnesty International has published a number of reports documenting the Palestine Authority's arrest and detention of civilians without charge. In one year at least 400 such detentions were reported, primarily of political dissidents to the Palestine Authority . In that single year Amnesty International found: \"Torture [by the Palestine Authority] of detainees remained widespread. Seven detainees died in custody. Unlawful killings, including possible extrajudicial executions, continued to be reported.\"\n\nIn November 2006, 50 veiled Palestinian women responded to a Hamas radio appeal to act as human shields between Israeli soldiers and Palestinian gunmen hiding in a Gaza mosque. Women acted as a cover against Israeli troops allowing armed men occupying the Mosque to escape. 2 of these women were killed by Israeli forces. In two further instances in November 2006, civilians were called to protect sites known to be targeted for attack by the IDF, in one instance by the owner of the targeted home, Mohammedweil Baroud, a commander in the Popular Resistance Committee and by calls broadcast from local Mosques. The Human Rights Watch has condemned this behavior saying, \"There is no excuse for calling civilians to the scene of a planned attack...Whether or not the home is a legitimate military target, knowingly asking civilians to stand in harm's way is unlawful.\".\nThe Palestinian Authority has also been accused of using civilians as human shields and civilian property such as houses as sites for smuggling arms, launching sites for rockets, and factories to produce munitions, thereby exposing them to harm from Israeli Defense Forces military operations. Civilian deaths caused by these strikes are widely publicized in the media and create favorable public opinion for the PA and negative public opinion against Israel.\nHakam Balawi has stated, \"... It is prohibited to launch rockets and to fire weapons from houses, and that is a supreme Palestinian interest that should not be violated because the result is barbaric retaliation by the occupying army and the citizenry cannot accept such shooting. Those who do it are a certain group that does not represent the people and nation, doing it without thinking about the general interest and public opinion in the world and in Israel. There is no vision or purpose to the missiles; the Palestinian interest is more important\"\nOn the other hand, on 29 February 2008 Hamas parliamentarian Fathi Hammad spoke of a \"death-seeking\" culture where women, children and the elderly volunteer as human shields against Israeli military attacks. \"[The enemies of Allah] do not know that the Palestinian people have developed its [methods] of death and death-seeking,\" Hammad is quoted by Memri in a speech televised on Hamas' Al-Aqsa television station. \"For the Palestinian people, death has become an industry, at which women excel, and so do all the people living on this land. The elderly excel at this, and so do the mujahideen and the children,\" Hammad is quoted as saying. \"This is why they have formed human shields of the women, the children, the elderly, and the mujahideen, in order to challenge the Zionist bombing machine. It is as if they were saying to the Zionist enemy: 'We desire death like you desire life,'\" he said.\nThe firing of Qassam rockets into Israel has been opposed by those living closest to the firing location due to Israeli military responses. On July 23, 2004 a family attempted to physically prevent the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades from setting up a Qassam rocket launcher outside their house. Members of the brigade shot one member of the family, an Arab boy, and wounded 5 others.\n\nWomen have full suffrage in the PA. In the 2006 elections, women made up 47 per cent of registered voters. Prior to the elections, the election law was amended to introduce a quota for women on the national party lists, resulting in 22 per cent of candidates on the national lists being women. The quota's effectiveness was illustrated in comparison with the district elections, where there was no quota, and only 15 of the 414 candidates were women.\n\nHamas has begun enforcing some Islamic standards of dress for women in the PA; women must don headscarves in order to enter government ministry buildings. In July 2010, Hamas banned the smoking of hookah by women in public. They claimed that it was to reduce the increasing amount of divorces.\n\nHonor killings are a problem in the PA; the Hamas government has not moved to stop these killings and may have set up infrastructures which participate in them. According to the 2005 Annual report of The Palestinian Human Rights Monitoring Group, 11 Palestinian women died as a result of honor killings in 2005. A November 2006 Human Rights Watch report, A Question of Security\nViolence against Palestinian Women and Girls, notes that, \"a significant number of women and girls in the Occupied Palestinian Territories (OPT) are victims of violence perpetrated by family members and intimate partners. While there is increasing recognition of the problem and some Palestinian Authority (PA) officials have indicated their support for a more forceful response, little action has been taken to seriously address these abuses. Indeed, there is some evidence the level of violence is getting worse while the remedies available to victims are being further eroded.\" The report discusses spousal and child abuse, rape, incest, and \"honor\" crimes. The report suggests that reasons for the PA's failure to respond to the violence include, \"discriminatory laws that condone and perpetuate such violence and the virtual absence of institutionalized policies to prevent violence, assist victims, and hold perpetrators accountable\". The report outlines Jordanian laws in force in the West Bank and Egyptian laws in Gaza, \"include provisions that provide a reduction in penalty to men who kill or attack female relatives committing adultery; relieve rapists who agree to marry their victims from any criminal prosecution; and allow only male relatives to file incest charges on behalf of minors\". In addition, HRW interviewed Palestinian police officers, including chiefs of police who, \"downplayed the severity of violence against women in the OPT and questioned the need for their involvement in the dissemination of potentially life-saving information to victims.\" The report also noted that, \"police officers and clan leaders regularly \"mediate\" and \"resolve\" these cases, typically by returning the abused women to the \"care and protection\" of her attacker, without ever referring the case to the courts or the woman to social or other services she might need\". While Human Rights Watch acknowledged, \"the severe constraints that the Israeli occupation imposes upon the PA,\" they concluded that, \"notwithstanding these limitations, the PA holds ultimate responsibility for protecting victims and holding perpetrators accountable...and that PA is failing to act diligently to prevent, investigate, and punish violence against women, putting women's health and lives in jeopardy. Ultimately, the PA is denying victims their rights under international human rights law to non-discrimination and an effective judicial remedy for abuse\".\n\nCrimes against women accelerated during 2007. Cases of women being beaten are common in the Gaza strip. Women murdered for \"family honor\" are seldom reported. Most women who are murdered are buried by members of their family in secret, and their deaths are not reported to any official body. The Palestinian media also refrain from reporting on this, for the sake of \"family honor.\"\n\nIsraeli officials say Hamas in the Gaza Strip has established hard-line Islamic courts and created the Hamas Anti-Corruption Group, which is described as a kind of \"morality police\" operating within Hamas' organization. Hamas has denied the existence of the anti-corruption group, but it was recently report to have carried out a high-profile \"honor killing\" widely covered by the Palestinian media.\n\nIn 2013, UNRWA canceled its annual marathon in Gaza after Hamas rulers prohibited women from participating in the race.\n\nGay Palestinians are often arrested and tortured. According to Shaul Ganon of the Israeli-based gay rights group, Aguda, \"The P.A. 's usual excuse for persecuting gays is to label them collaborators--though I know of two cases in the last three years where people were tried explicitly for being homosexuals...It's now [since the intifada, when police increasingly began enforcing Islamic law] impossible to be an open gay in the P.A.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8385823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8385823", "title": "Icarus Project", "text": "Icarus Project\n\nThe Icarus Project is a media and activist endeavor broadly aligned to a Recovery approach, arguing that mental illness should be understood as an issue of social justice and that a person's mental state can improve through greater social support and collective liberation. It shares similarities with the academic fields of Psychopolitics and Mad Studies. The name is derived from Icarus, a hero in Greek mythology, and is metaphorically used to convey that the experiences of mental distress and other extreme mental states can lead to \"potential[ly] flying dangerously close to the sun.\" \n\nIn 2002, musician Sascha Altman DuBrul wrote \"Bipolar World\", an article published in the \"San Francisco Bay Guardian\". The article described his experiences being diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Among the dozens of e-mails and other correspondence that he received after this publication was a letter from Ashley McNamara, now known as Jacks, an artist and writer who identified strongly with DuBrul's experiences. DuBrul and McNamara corresponded for a few weeks before finally meeting in person and deciding to start The Icarus Project. Years later, musician-activist Bonfire Madigan Shive and counselor/activist Will Hall became a key leader in The Icarus Project's administration and development.\n\nIn the \"Journal of Medical Humanities\", co-founder DuBrul describes The Icarus Project as tied to socioculture movements in anarchism, anti-psychiatry, permaculture/sustainable ecology, LGBTQ rights, harm reduction, global justice movement, counterculture, and punk rock. He writes, \"Our response to the label 'bipolar' was not a 'normal' response, which is why the Icarus Project brought a new perspective to psychic diversity. To create this perspective, we drew inspiration from many social movements and subcultural communities that came before us. So even though our response was unusual, it did not arise in a vacuum. In creating the Icarus Project, we wove together the ideas and practices in these movements to imagine a powerful new counter narrative to the dominant mental health narrative that went beyond a questioning of the language around 'bipolar' and critiqued the system itself.\"\n\nThe first step, they decided, was creating a website where people who identified with \"bipolar and other 'mental illness' [could] find real community and contribute to it.\" DuBrul states that by 2003, \"The Icarus Project website was up and running, and a virtual community began to evolve around the discussion forums.\" He notes that user-generated content online enabled The Icarus Project's growth: \"We were attracting interesting people, creating discussion forums with names like 'Alternate Dimensions or Psychotic Delusions' and 'Experiencing Madness and Extreme States.' There was no place else where people who used psych meds and people who did not, people who identified with diagnostic categories and people who did not, could all talk with each other and share stories. Because of the outreach in the anarchist and activist community, there was a high percentage of creative people with a radical political analysis. And with the (seeming) anonymity of the Internet, people felt comfortable being honest and sharing intimate stories about their lives. Our website served as a refuge for a diverse group of people who were learning the ways in which new narratives could be woven about their lives.\"\n\nThe Icarus Project's stated aims are to provide a \"support network and education project by and for people who experience the world in ways that are often diagnosed as mental illness.\" The national Icarus Collective staff is set up to support local groups instead of creating the smaller organizations themselves. The responsibilities of the local group are to gather people locally for support, education, activism, and access to alternatives to mainstream medical diagnosis and treatment. The Project advocates self-determination and caution when approaching psychiatric care. It encourages harm reduction, alternatives to the prevailing medical model that is accepted by the vast majority of mental health professionals, and self-determination in treatment and diagnosis. Key members of The Icarus Project state that they \"envision a world with more options to navigate mental health issues: options that support self-determination, center people who are most impacted by mental health-based oppression, and most critically, uplift social transformation as central to individual wellbeing.\"\n\nJournalist Jennifer Itzenson notes that the Icarus Project accepts those with a wide range of perspectives on mental health issues, but also describes \"an edge of militancy within the group,\" particularly among those who reject medication. Itzenson also writes that while medical professionals applaud groups like the Icarus Project for providing a sense of support and community, and combating social stigmas related to bipolar and other mental health issues, the group's questioning of the medical paradigm is \"misguided\" and that rejecting medication is a \"potentially fatal choice\" for those with bipolar disorder. A Newsweek article provides the following perspective on The Icarus Project's stance towards medication: \"While some critics might view Icaristas as irresponsible, their skepticism about drugs isn't entirely unfounded. Lately, a number of antipsychotic drugs have been found to cause some troubling side effects.\" Itzenson notes that DuBrul has been quoted as saying that he has \"superpowers\" due to his alleged acute sensitivity to his surroundings.\n\nIn contrast, writer Mark Lukach describes his experience asking co-founder Sascha Altman DuBrul about the role of psychiatric medication as a part of his wife's recovery from a bipolar diagnosis. Lukach articulates The Icarus Project's approach to self-determination in psychiatric treatment, \"As for medication, DuBrul said that he believed that the answer to the question of whether or not to use pharmaceuticals needed to be far more nuanced than yes or no. The best response might be \"maybe\", \"sometimes\", or \"only certain medications\". For instance, DuBrul shared that he takes lithium every night because he’s confident that, after four hospitalizations and over a decade with the label bipolar, the medication is a positive part of his care. Not the whole solution, but a piece.\"\n\nScholar Erica Hua Fletcher describes Icarus Project member's diverse ways of discussing altered mental states in the \"Journal of Medical Humanities\". Dr. Fletcher writes, \"While many Icarus contributors have found relief through the use of psycho-pharmaceutical interventions and other bio-psychiatric technologies, they also have experienced the limitations of medical paradigms and language to recognize the fullness of their lives. Because of this, they frequently adopt alternative words and phrases beyond bio-psychiatric terms to describe their mental states such as \"neurodivergent processing,\" \"diasporas of distressing symptoms,\" \"sensory/cognitive/emotional trauma,\" or \"cognitive-emotional terror.\" \"Bipolar disorder\" is interchangeable with highs and lows; \"psychosis\" can be seen as a reckoning; and nonconsensus realities can describe extreme experiences, which psychiatrists could label as symptoms of \"schizophrenia\" (such as hearing voices others do not hear or seeing objects others do not see). Such alternative words and phrases do not diminish the utility of bio- psychiatric terminology nor do they directly undermine medical treatment options, yet they allow for a range of descriptors and call for attention to individual needs and desires. They call us to listen to personal stories, to forces at work within communities, and to reevaluate the languages that enframe mental illness as such.\" She goes on to state, \"Alternative language beyond the biomedical paradigm of mental illness fosters a diversity of paradigms. Moreover, it can create a reflective space for those with mental suffering (and for their healthcare providers) to see themselves outside of a medical identity, reevaluate their self-care regimens, advocate for the care they would like to receive, and connect to others who may have similar concerns about ascribing to solely psycho-pharmaceutical interventions.\"\n\nAs of early 2018, Icarus Project staff describe their expertise in social activism, herbalism, and labor organizing. Icarus Project advisory board members describe themselves as educators, artists, activists, writers, healers, community organizers, and other creative types and some identify as Latinx, queer, trans, people of color or mixed race, and trauma survivors. Leadership currently offers publications on self-care and community care, workshops and training for peers, training and talks for providers, peer support spaces, webinars, and other events.\n\nThe Icarus Project is currently under the fiscal sponsorship of FJC, a non-profit 501(c)3 umbrella organization arm of an investment firm, based in New York City. The Icarus Project currently gets the bulk of its money from foundation grants, including the Ittleson Foundation, but it also has many individual donors. There has been considerable talk for many years of alternate funding structures, and efforts are currently underway to explore 501c3 and cooperative structures. The Icarus Project maintains a financial transparency page which is current as of 2010, receiving grants totaling $16,000 and individual donations of about $3,500. The Icarus Project does not accept funding from pharmaceutical companies. The Icarus Project has a social media presence on Twitter and Facebook.\n\nSome of the local groups currently meet in\n\nThe Icarus Project has been mentioned in passing in \"The New York Times\" as a resource for those who \"don't want to 'get better'\", by \"Frontline 20/20\", and many local media outlets.\n\nEducational materials published by The Icarus Project have been published in Spanish, German, French, Italian, Japanese, Greek, and Bosnian/Croatian. Some of these publications are listed below: \nScholarship about The Icarus Project is listed below:\nFilms about Icarus Project members are listed below:\n\n"}
{"id": "38657408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38657408", "title": "Indicator of compromise", "text": "Indicator of compromise\n\nIndicator of compromise (IOC) — in computer forensics is an artifact observed on a network or in an operating system that with high confidence indicates a computer intrusion.\n\nTypical IOCs are virus signatures and IP addresses, MD5 hashes of malware files or URLs or domain names of botnet command and control servers. After IOCs have been identified in a process of incident response and computer forensics, they can be used for early detection of future attack attempts using intrusion detection systems and antivirus software.\n\nFor more efficient automated processing there are initiatives to standardize the format of IOCs. Known indicators are usually exchanged within the industry.\n"}
{"id": "39228340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39228340", "title": "Information security indicators", "text": "Information security indicators\n\nIn information technology, benchmarking of computer security requires measurements for comparing both different IT systems and single IT systems in dedicated situations. The technical approach is a pre-defined catalog of security events (security incident and vulnerability) together with corresponding formula for the calculation of security indicators that are accepted and comprehensive.\n\nInformation security indicators have been standardized by the ETSI Industrial Specification Group (ISG) ISI. These indicators provide the basis to switch from a qualitative to a quantitative culture in IT Security Scope of measurements: External and internal threats (attempt and success), user's deviant behaviours, nonconformities and/or vulnerabilities (software, configuration, behavioural, general security framework).\n\nThe list of Information Security Indicators belongs to the ISI framework that consists of the following eight closely linked Work Items:\n\n\nPreliminary work on information security indicators have been done by the French Club R2GS. The first public set of the ISI standards (security indicators list and event model) have been released in April 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "9261144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9261144", "title": "Inquilab Zindabad", "text": "Inquilab Zindabad\n\nInquilab Zindabad (; ) is a Hindustani phrase which translates to \"Long live the revolution!\" \n\nThis slogan was coined by the Urdu poet and Indian freedom fighter Maulana Hasrat Mohani in 1921.\nIt was popularized by Bhagat Singh (1907 - 1931) during the late 1920s through his speeches and writings. It was also the official slogan of the \nHindustan Socialist Republican Association.\nIn April 1929, this slogan was raised by Bhagat Singh and his accomplice B. K. Dutt who had shouted this after bombing the Central Legislative Assembly in Delhi.\nLater, for the first time in an open court, this slogan was raised in June 1929 as part of their at the High Court in Delhi.\nSince then, it became one of the rallying cries of the Indian independence movement. In Indian political novels chronicling the independence movement, a pro-independence sentiment is often characterized by characters shouting this slogan.\n\nThe slogan is now used more frequently by socialists and communists, especially by those in the CPI (M), CPI and leftist political parties.\n"}
{"id": "1777935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777935", "title": "Institute 22", "text": "Institute 22\n\nThe Institute 22 organization was created in 1978, by the Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Defense in the Soviet Union. Its mission was to investigate UFOs in the Soviet Union. Institute 22 was a secret organization for 13 years (until the fall of the Soviet Union), and can be compared to the American Project Blue Book.\n\nDuring its existence a great number of soldiers, sailors and pilots of the Soviet Army were given orders to watch for UFOs and other unexplained events, without any further information. The orders could be handed out quite easily since the Ministry of Defense was involved - thus no questions could be asked.\n\nInstitute 22 have investigated around 3000 UFO reports. About 5-10% of all cases remained unexplained when the organization dissolved.\n\nThere is a conspiracy theory that Institute 22 was involved in a cover-up of a near-nuclear launch. In 1982, one of the Soviet Nuclear Bases was brought online, and for no apparent reason a nuclear missile was ready to launch. After 30 seconds of panic and chaos, the launch was aborted as mysteriously as it had appeared. Later, witnesses said that there had been some UFO activity near the area of the base - thus the reason for Institute 22's involvement and cover-up.\n\nThe UFOs were explained as flares, which the Army was testing from a higher altitude. The nuclear crisis was explained as a simple test.\n"}
{"id": "386297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386297", "title": "Jane Mackenzie", "text": "Jane Mackenzie\n\nJane Mackenzie (née Sym; March 22, 1825 – March 30, 1893) was the second wife of Alexander Mackenzie, the second Prime Minister of Canada.\n\nShe married Alexander Mackenzie on June 17, 1853. The couple had no children, although Jane Mackenzie was stepmother to Alexander's daughter from his prior marriage. They are buried at the Lakeview Cemetery, 1016 Colborne Rd., in Sarnia, Ontario.\n\n"}
{"id": "57588173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57588173", "title": "John Hunt Publishing", "text": "John Hunt Publishing\n\nJohn Hunt Publishing is a publishing company founded in the United Kingdom in 2001, initially named O Books. The publisher has 24 active autonomous imprints, with the largest of these being the Zero Books imprint founded in 2009. The Zero Books imprint was founded with the objective being to combat what they viewed as a trend of anti-intellectualism in contemporary culture.\n\nJohn Hunt Publishing was founded in the United Kingdom in 2001, originally named O Books, a name which it continues to use as one of its imprints, in the \"mind, body, and spirit\" market. Its Zero Books imprint was founded by Tariq Goddard and Mark Fisher in 2009. John Hunt Publishing then underwent a major reorganization in 2010. In 2014, Goddard and Fisher left Zero Books to found another publishing house, Repeater Books.\nSince 2014 the imprint has been run by Douglas Lain along with Ashley Frawley and C Derick Varn and has published critically acclaimed books such as \"Kill All Normies\" and \"Zen City\". The imprint began publishing a series called Neglected or Misunderstood in 2017 with the aim of covering neglected or misunderstood left-wing theorists such as Shulamith Firestone and Theodor Adorno. Zero Books states that their goal is to utilize critical theory to \"publish books that make our readers uncomfortable\" in order to \"reinvent the left\".\n\nJohn Hunt Publishing \"deals directly with authors\" and does not require they have an agent. However, \"because they are a small publisher, they are unable to pay advances, so [authors] have to wait for the royalties to roll in\". Imprints of John Hunt Publishing offer four “levels” of publishing based on the likely popularity of the book, with both “traditional publishing deals and what it describes as co-operative publishing for authors,” with about a quarter of books, most prevalently those in fiction, being published “under co-operative terms,” though this will vary by imprint. The company also says that \"every title gets treated the same. No bookshop or reviewer is going to know if one title or another has had a subsidy.\" As with other imprints operations are controlled by authors themselves, who \"have gravitated to being involved in publishing, whether coming up through editing, design or marketing.\" This multiple-imprint author-centric style has been described as, \"It can’t work. It shouldn’t work. Yet, somehow, John Hunt Publishing is making it work.\" A central corporate office continues to manage sales, accounts, and royalties for all imprints. As of 2014, the company was publishing \"approximately 300 titles per year with global sales and a focus on physical stores.\"\n\nAs of 2018, the active imprints of John Hunt Publishing are described as:\n\nFormer or inactive imprints are:\n\nSome notable authors published through John Hunt Publishing include: Andrez Bergen, Frithjof Bergmann, Danielle Collobert, David Fontana, Mike George, Jusy Hall, Nicholas Hagger, Leslie Scalapino, and Steve Taylor. Authors published through the Zero Books imprint include: Angela Nagle, Mark Fisher, Tariq Goddard, David Stubbs, Adam Kotsko, Owen Hatherley, Cliff Slaughter, Ed Simon, Anselm Jappe, Laurie Penny, Nina Power, Eliot Fintushel, Eugene Thacker, Gilad Atzmon, and David Cromwell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3135714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3135714", "title": "Ketuanan Melayu", "text": "Ketuanan Melayu\n\nKetuanan Melayu (Jawi script: كتوانن ملايو; literally \"Malay dominance\") is a political concept emphasising Malay preeminence in present-day Malaysia. The Malays of Malaysia claimed a special position and special rights owing to their long domicile and the fact that the present Malaysian state itself evolved from a Malay polity. The oldest political institution in Malaysia is the system of Malay rulers of the nine Malay states. British colonial government transformed the system and turned it first into a system of indirect rule, then in 1948, using this culturally based institution, they incorporated the Malay monarchy into the blueprints for the independent Federation of Malaya.\n\nThe term Tanah Melayu in its name which literally means \"Malay homeland\", assumes proprietorship of the Malay states. In this way Britain strengthened Malay ethno-nationalism, Malay ethnicity and culture and Malay sovereignty in the new nation-state. Though other cultures would continue to flourish, the identity of the emerging political community was to be shaped by the \"historic\" political culture of its dominant Malay ethnic group. The Chinese and Indian immigrants who form a significant minority in Malaysia, are considered beholden to the Malays for granting them citizenship in return for special privileges as set out in Article 153 of the Constitution of Malaysia. This \"quid pro quo\" arrangement is usually referred to as the Malaysian social contract. The concept of \"ketuanan Melayu\" is usually cited by politicians, particularly those from the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), the most influential political party in Malaysia.\n\nAlthough the idea itself predates Malaysian independence, the phrase \"ketuanan Melayu\" did not come into vogue until the early 2000s decade. Historically, the most vocal political opposition towards the concept has come from non-Malay-based parties, such as the Malaysian People's Movement Party (Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia) and Democratic Action Party (DAP); in the 2000s decade, the multiracial People's Justice Party (Parti Keadilan Rakyat, or PKR) also positioned itself against \"ketuanan Melayu\", advocating instead \"ketuanan rakyat\" (supremacy of the people). The idea of Malay supremacy gained attention in the 1940s, when the Malays organised themselves to protest the Malayan Union's establishment, and later fought for independence. During the 1960s, there was a substantial effort challenging \"ketuanan Melayu\" led by the People's Action Party (PAP) of Singapore — which was a state in Malaysia from 1963 to 1965 — and the DAP after Singapore's secession. However, the portions of the Constitution related to \"ketuanan Melayu\" were \"entrenched\" after the race riots of 13 May 1969, which followed an election campaign focused on the issue of non-Malay rights and \"ketuanan Melayu\". This period also saw the rise of \"ultras\" who advocated a one-party government led by UMNO, and an increased emphasis on the Malays being the \"definitive people\" of Malaysia — i.e. only a Malay could be a true Malaysian.\n\nThe riots caused a major change in the government's approach to racial issues, and led to the introduction of an aggressive affirmative action policy strongly favouring the Malays, the New Economic Policy (NEP). The National Culture Policy, also introduced in 1970, emphasised an assimilation of the non-Malays into the Malay ethnic group. However, during the 1990s Prime Minister Mahathir bin Mohamad rejected this approach, with his \"Bangsa Malaysia\" policy emphasising a Malaysian instead of Malay identity for the state. During the 2000s decade politicians began stressing \"ketuanan Melayu\" again, and publicly chastised government ministers who questioned the social contract.\n\nEthnic Malays which make up the majority population of Malaysia at 50.4%, are an ethnic group of Austronesian people predominantly inhabiting the Malay Peninsula, including the southernmost parts of Thailand, the east coast of Sumatra, the coast of Borneo, and the smaller islands which lie between these locations. The true origin of ethnic Malays is still the subject of studies among historians, anthropologists and linguists. A popular theory suggested that the people who spoke Austronesian languages first arrived in Maritime Southeast Asia between 2,500BCE and 1,500BCE, as a part of Austronesian expansion from Taiwan to South East Asia.\n\nHowever, a recent genetic studies carried out by HUGO (Human Genome Organization) involving almost 2000 people across Asia, points to another theory of Asian migration pattern. The HUGO findings support the hypothesis that Asia was populated primarily through a single migration event from the south and that the South East Asian region was populated first which contained the most diversity, then continuing slowly North with its diversity being lost.\n\nHindu and Buddhist influences arrived through trade contacts with the Indian subcontinent. The beginning of the first Millennium saw the rise of ancient Malay states in the coastal areas of Malay peninsular, notably the Red Earth Kingdom (1st century), Gangga Negara (2nd century), Langkasuka (2nd century), Kedah (2nd century) and Pahang (5th century). Between 7th and 13th centuries, many of these small, often prosperous peninsular maritime trading states became part of the Srivijaya empire, a Malay kingdom centred in Palembang and Kadaram.\n\nBy the 15th century, the Malacca Sultanate, whose hegemony reached over much of the western Malay archipelago, had become the centre of Islamization in the east. The Malaccan tradition was transmitted onwards and fostered a vigorous ethos of Malay identity. Since this era, the Islamic faith became closely identified with Malay society and played a significant role in defining the Malay identity. The close identification of the Malays with Islam continued until the 20th century and was finally entrenched in the Article 160 of the Constitution of Malaysia as well as in the national philosophy of Brunei known as the Malay Islamic Monarchy.\n\nThe present day Malaysian Malays are divided broadly into \"Malays proper\" or \"Peninsular Malays\" (\"Melayu Anak Jati\" or \"Melayu Semenanjung\") and \"foreign Malays\" or \"Islander Malay\" (\"Melayu Anak Dagang\" or \"Melayu Kepulauan\"). The Malays proper consist of those individuals who adhere to the Malay culture which has developed in the Malay peninsula. Among notable groups are Kedahan Malays, Kelantanese Malays and Terengganuan Malays. The foreign Malays consist of descendants of immigrants from other part of Malay archipelago who became the citizens of the Malay sultanates and were absorbed and assimilated into Malay culture at different times, aided by similarity in lifestyle and common religion (Islam). Among notable groups are the Javanese, Minangkabau and Bugis Malays.\n\nArticle 160 of the Constitution of Malaysia defines a Malay as a Malaysian citizen born to a Malaysian citizen who professes to be a Muslim, habitually speaks the Malay language, adheres to Malay customs, and is domiciled in Malaysia or Singapore. Though this definition is not according to ancestry lineage, it is however correct in the sense of social behaviours. Culture, which controls a great proportion of general mentality and social behaviour, is succeeded through the mother tongue and religion. Article 160 unites Malays from different ethnic groups as the prevailing race and thus embraces them with the political prowess to dominate and rule over other races: Chinese, Indians, Kadazan, Iban, Orang Asli etc. This is also apparent from the name of UMNO (United Malays National Organisation), who are a staunch political proponent of this role.\n\nMalay nationalism as an organised political movement existed since the invasion by foreign powers. However, the ethnic Chinese and Indian immigrants, forming a minority of the population, did not see themselves as Malayans. A report by the British Permanent Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies in the early 1930s found that \"the number of non-Malays who have adopted Malaya as their home is only a very small proportion of the whole population\".\n\nAlthough the British effectively ruled Malaya, \"de jure\" the Malays were coerced under fictitious agreements to accept the British administration through a residence system. British High Commissioner Sir Hugh Clifford, demonstrated the British ideology which rationalised colonialism in Malaya when he urged \"everyone in this country [to] be mindful of the fact that this is a Malay country, and we British came here at the invitation of Their Highnesses the Malay Rulers, and it is our duty to help the Malays to rule their own country.\"\n\nOstensibly the British adopted an open \"Pro-Malay\" policy so the Malays could, in the words of High Commissioner Sir Laurence Guillemard, be equipped \"to take their proper place in the administrative and commercial life of these States.\" In reality, the non-elite Malays felt marginalised by the economic and political policies of the colonial government, whereas in fact they were the backbone of British rule, and both educational and occupational policies were segregated according to ethnic lines.\n\nThe local-born non-Malay communities soon began the fight for self-rule. In 1936, the Malayan-born Indian community asked High Commissioner Sir Shenton Thomas to grant them a share of administrative appointments. Thomas rejected the request, referring to the local-born Indians as \"foreigners\". Although the British appeared to view the Chinese as a \"transient labor force,\" with statistics indicating most Chinese migrants eventually returned home, critics contend that the local-born Chinese population was steadily growing. Nevertheless, the British insisted it would be dangerous to consider the Chinese as having \"a tendency to permanent settlement\"; the locally born Indian community — comprising 20% of the Indian population, the rest being manual labourers having migrated for similar reasons as the Chinese at around the same time — was likewise largely ignored.\n\nThe British relegated the Malays to their \"traditional\" peasant lifestyle as far as possible, restricting movement, economic enterprises and education. This policy was maintained in the belief that education of Bengalis in India had led to discontent and rebellion. They involved only the Malay ruling class in government and administrative issues. Despite the exclusion of non-Malays from positions of ostensible authority, much of the civil service rank and file comprised non-Malays, many of them Indians who were specifically brought in for this purpose. A number of historians have described the pro-Malay policies as designed merely to preserve the position of the British, rather than to strengthen that of the Malays; many characterised the British approach as one of \"divide and rule\", keeping \"the races at just the right distance from each other to have the disparate elements of Malaya work in remote harmony\".\n\nIn the 1920s, the local-born Chinese, who retained significant economic power, began pushing for a greater role in Malayan government. Much of the Chinese community, which now made up 45% of the Malayan population, still comprised transient labourers. Nevertheless, the Straits Chinese — which comprised the bulk of local-born Chinese — wanted to be given government positions and recognised as Malayans. One Straits Chinese leader asked, \"Who said this is a Malay country? ... When Captain [Francis] Light arrived, did he find Malays, or Malay villages? Our forefathers came here and worked hard as coolies — weren't ashamed to become coolies — and they didn't send their money back to China. They married and spent their money here, and in this way the Government was able to open up the country from jungle to civilization. We've become inseparable from this country. It's ours, our country...\" Malay intellectuals objected to this reasoning, claiming that such reasoning is totally absurd and proposing an analogy with the Chinese as masons and Malaya as a house. A paid mason, they argued, was not entitled to a share in the ownership rights to a home he built. As such, they opposed any attempt to grant the Chinese citizenship or other political rights.\n\nA number of Indonesian ethnic groups such as the Javanese and Bugis had migrated within the Malay Archipelago throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, and were most quickly assimilated into the Malay cultural identity. Eventually, the Chinese-Malayan appeals appeared to have some impact on the British. In 1927, the Governor of the Straits Settlements referred to the Chinese as \"indigenous inhabitants of British Malaya\".\n\nJust before World War II, Malay nationalism began emphasising \"ketuanan Melayu\", which had once been taken for granted. It was feared that British policies now seemed geared towards creating a common Malayan nationality inclusive of the Chinese and Indians. Some Malays thus sought to preserve the \"status quo\" with the British as a bulwark against the non-Malays. Others began calling for an independent and sovereign Malay nation, such as \"Greater Indonesia\".\n\nAfter World War II, the British announced the establishment of the Malayan Union, which would loosen immigration policies, reduce the sovereignty of the Malay rulers, and not recognise Malay supremacy, establishing Malaya as a protectorate of the United Kingdom. As local-born residents, most Chinese and Indians qualified for citizenship under the Union's principle of \"jus soli\". With equal rights guaranteed to all, the Malays became dissatisfied with that. Even their traditional stronghold, the civil service, would be open to all Malayans. In the first place, the Malays did not consider themselves to be included under the label of \"Malayans\".\n\nThe Malays became politically conscious, protesting the Union's formation. At one gathering, placards declared that \"Malaya Belongs to the Malays. We do not want the other races to be given the rights and privileges of the Malays.\" One Malay organisation told the British that the Union's citizenship provisions would lead to \"the wiping from existence of the Malay race along with their land and Rulers\". A group of Malay royalists and civil servants led by Dato' Onn Ja'afar formed the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) to protest the Malayan Union's formation.\n\nAlthough the Union was established as planned, the campaign continued; in 1948, the British replaced the Malayan Union with the Federation of Malaya. The Federation restored sovereignty to the Malay rulers, tightened immigration and citizenship restrictions, and gave the Malays special privileges. Nevertheless, the avowed goal of the British remained the same as in 1946: to introduce \"a form of common citizenship open to all those, irrespective of race, who regarded Malaya as their real home and as the object of their loyalty.\"\n\nLimited opposition to \"ketuanan Melayu\" and UMNO during this period came from a coalition between the All-Malaya Council of Joint Action (AMCJA) and the Pusat Tenaga Rakyat (PUTERA). Although one of PUTERA's constituent organisations had insisted on \"ketuanan Melayu\" as a \"National Birthright\" of the Malays, PUTERA joined the AMCJA in championing equal political rights for non-Malays. After the British refused to heed the PUTERA-AMCJA coalition, it pulled out of talks with the British, later launching a major hartal (general strike) to protest perceived defects in the new polity. After the Federation was formed over their objections, the coalition disbanded.\n\nPrior to the Federation, non-Malays were generally uninvolved in Malayan politics and nationalism, both essentially Malay in nature; being more interested in the politics of their respective homelands, non-Malays never significantly backed the Malayan Union openly but their silence was a support to it. The AMCJA, though mostly non-Malay, did not represent a large section of the non-Malay communities in Malaya. The lack of interest in or loyalty to Malaya amongst the non-Malays seemed to justify \"ketuanan Melayu\" — Malay self-rule.\n\nSome historians have argued the Union's failure made the Chinese aware of the need for political representation. The Malayan Chinese Association (MCA) — a communal political party campaigning for Chinese political rights — was formed soon after the Federation's formation. Others claim that the main driving force behind non-Malay involvement in Malayan politics, and their assertion of certain rights, was the increasing number of local-born non-Malays. The same report from the British Permanent Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies cited earlier stated that Malayan-born non-Malays \"have never seen the land of their origin and they claim that their children and their children's children should have fair treatment.\" The inaugural President of the MCA was Tan Cheng Lock, a local-born Chinese who had led the AMCJA until its breaking up.\n\nIts initial goals achieved, UMNO established itself as a political party to fight for independence. At the same time, the Malayan Communist Party (MCP) launched an armed insurgency to form a communist government in Malaya, culminating in the Malayan Emergency which lasted until after independence. The insurgency was marked by a clear racial divide; opposition to the insurrection was almost entirely Malay, while Chinese dominated the communist ranks. The British encouraged the establishment of the Communities Liaison Committee (CLC), comprising the top echelon of Malayan politicians from different communities, to address sensitive issues, especially those related to race. Compromises on a number of issues, including citizenship, education, democracy, and Malay supremacy, were agreed on. Eventually, a \"bargain\" between the Malays and non-Malays was formulated; in return for giving up \"ketuanan Melayu\", the Malays would be assisted in closing the economic gap between the Malay and non-Malay communities. CLC member E.E.C. Thuraisingham later said, \"I and others believed that the backward Malays should be given a better deal. Malays should be assisted to attain parity with non-Malays to forge a united Malayan Nation of equals.\"\n\nProblems continued to crop up. Many Chinese Malayan youths drafted into the army to stave off communist attacks fled the country; most participants were English- and not Chinese-educated. To the Malays, this indicated that the Chinese had no particular loyalty towards Malaya and justified \"ketuanan Melayu\", heightening similar perceptions caused by the apparent racial dichotomy between those in fierce opposition to the communists and those supporting the MCP.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Onn Ja'afar proposed to open UMNO membership to all Malayans, and renaming it the United Malayan National Organisation, which would have diluted its identity as a champion of \"ketuanan Melayu\". Defeated in an internal power struggle, he resigned in 1951 to found the Independence of Malaya Party (IMP). He was succeeded by Tunku Abdul Rahman (often known as \"the Tunku\"), who insisted on initial Malay sovereignty. Expressing concern over a lack of loyalty to Malaya among non-Malays, he demanded they clarify their allegiance before being accorded citizenship, going on to state: \"For those who love and feel they owe undivided loyalty to this country, we will welcome them as Malayans. They must truly be Malayans, and they will have the same rights and privileges as the Malays.\" Not long after, in 1952, however, he appeared to contradict himself, and insisted that Malays safeguard their special position: \"Malaya is for the Malays and it should not be governed by a mixture of races.\"\n\nDuring this period, some Straits Chinese began taking interest in local politics, especially in Penang, where there was an active Chinese secessionist movement. Identifying more with the British than the Malays, they were especially angered by references to them as \"pendatang asing\" (foreigners). Avoiding both UMNO and the MCA, they believed that while UMNO and Malay extremists were intent on extending Malay privileges and restricting Chinese rights, the MCA was too \"selfish\", and could not be relied on. Uncomfortable about the merger of the Straits Settlements with Malaya, they did not feel a sense of belonging in a \"Malaya for the Malays\" where they were not considered \"bumiputra\" (\"sons of the soil\"). One Straits Chinese leader indignantly declared, \"I can claim to be more \"anak Pulau Pinang\" [a son of Penang] than 99 per cent of the Malays living here today.\" With the government's stout rejection of secession, the movement eventually petered out.\n\nSome suggested that the non-Malays did not feel loyal to Malaya because they did not consider themselves to be of Malayan nationality and adhere strictly to their own ethnic cultural backgrounds. To counter this, in 1952 citizenship was granted to nearly all local-born non-Malays, and dual citizenship prohibited, forcing non-Malays to choose between their ancestral homeland and Malaya. In contrast to the Malay's hypothesis, a majority of the non-Malays remained, thus proving their allegiance to Malaya. They are the ancestor of modern-day non-Malay Malaysian.\n\nAs Malaya moved to self-government, the British initiated the Member System, modelled on the cabinet system; like the CLC, it drew on members of different communities, and was later described as setting a precedent for the power-sharing multiracial Malayan and Malaysian cabinets post-independence. At the same time, the British also began laying the framework for a national education system that would create \"a sense of common citizenship\". The Barnes Report that they commissioned, however, was strongly objected to by the Chinese community for being \"saturated with Malay nationalism\" and bolstering \"ketuanan Melayu\". The Fenn-Wu Report, favoured by the Chinese, did not meet with Malay approval. In the end, the Barnes Report's recommendations for English-medium \"national schools\" were implemented by the 1952 Education Ordinance, over vocal Chinese protests, who were upset by the lack of provision for non-Malay vernacular schools. In 1956, a committee headed by Tun Abdul Razak re-evaluated the education system. The \"Razak Report\" recommended that vernacular primary schools be permitted to continue, but share a common syllabus with national schools. Vernacular secondary schools would not be sanctioned; only national secondary schools would be funded. The Chinese community strenuously objected to the Razak Report as well, launching an organised campaign against it; the MCA's refusal to oppose the Report cost it politically in some Chinese constituencies. Nevertheless, the Razak Report's recommendations were largely successful, and many of them remain in place as of 2006.\n\nAccording to many historians, the root cause of ethnic strife and \"ketuanan Melayu\" was a lack of mixing between the Malays and non-Malays. An exception to this were the Straits Chinese, who managed to assimilate reasonably well, despite the assimilation taking 600 years including intermarriage. According to the Ming Shi-lu, the ancestors of the Straits Chinese were \"gifts\" given to the Sultan of Malacca as a recognition of both bilateral ties between the Ming Dynasty and the sultanate, and of Malay sovereignty. At the time, most were rich merchants during British rule instead of manual labourers and many habitually spoke Malay, dressed in the Malay style, and preferred Malay cuisine.\n\nThe British educational policies segregating the different races — providing minimal public education for Malays, and leaving non-Malays to their own devices — did not help matters. The Malays, predominantly rural-dwellers, were not encouraged to socialise with the more urban non-Malays. The economic impoverishment of the Malays which set them apart from the better-off Chinese also fanned racial sentiments.\n\nAnother contributing factor to \"ketuanan Melayu\" was the World War II Japanese occupation. The war \"awakened a keen political awareness among Malayan people by intensifying communalism and racial hatred\". Japanese policies \"politicised the Malay peasantry\", intentionally fanning the flames of Malay nationalism. Two Malay historians wrote that \"The Japanese hostile acts against the Chinese and their apparently more favourable treatments of the Malays helped to make the Chinese community feel its separate identity more acutely...\" A foreign commentator agreed, stating that \"During the occupation period ... Malay national sentiment had become a reality; it was strongly anti-Chinese, and its rallying cry [was] 'Malaya for the Malays'...\"\n\nAlthough UMNO supported \"ketuanan Melayu\", it formed an \"Alliance\" with the MCA and the Malayan Indian Congress (MIC) to contest the 1955 Federal Legislative Council elections. This took many by surprise, as the MCA had strenuously insisted on equal political rights for all citizens. Its President, Tan Cheng Lock, was himself a Straits Chinese, albeit not as extremist as the secessionists. Although initially dismissed as a marriage of convenience, the Alliance won 51 out of 52 seats available. The sole remaining seat went to the Pan-Malayan Islamic Party (PMIP; later known as PAS), a Malay-based party and strong advocate of \"ketuanan Melayu\". The total defeat of non-communal parties led the Alliance to perceive the political atmosphere as inhospitable for multi-racial parties. A coalition government comprising mono-racial parties in which party leaders privately brokered compromise decisions was thought more stable and better suited to Malayan politics.\n\nPrior to the election, Dato' Onn Ja'afar had changed his approach, forming the Parti Negara after IMP suffered crushing losses to the Alliance in local elections. Advocating stronger pro-Malay policies recognising Malay political dominance, the Parti Negara failed to shake the Alliance's grip on power. However, some believe Parti Negara's proposals helped sway UMNO politicians towards more radically pro-Malay policies. The British themselves insisted on handing over power only to a multiracial government, and the Alliance was considered to meet this requirement.\n\nThe Federation of Malaya became officially independent of the British Empire in 1957. The new state's Constitution contained provisions, such as Article 153, guaranteeing the Malays certain privileges as a form of affirmative action. The Reid Commission, which drafted the Constitution, stated that Article 153 was to be temporary in nature, and should be reviewed by Parliament 15 years after independence. The Constitution itself did not explicitly state this, however, nor did it clarify the purpose of Article 153. It did declare all Malayans equal under the law, without mention of \"Malay sovereignty\" or any other ideas related to \"ketuanan Melayu\". \"Jus soli\" citizenship — the granting of citizenship to anyone born in the Federation — was also granted, albeit without retrospective effect; it was a major concession by the Malays, who had vigorously campaigned against \"jus soli\" citizenship in the Malayan Union.\n\nOn the other hand, Malay and Islam became the national language and official religion, while the Malay rulers remained. This was taken to mean that the Malays were accorded deference as the definitive people of Malaya — i.e. being a Malayan would be the same as being a Malay — and in the eyes of many, gave Malaya a Malay identity. One academic suggested that \"The Malays have a deep-rooted feeling that they alone are the bumiputras, the sons of the soil, and as such have certain special rights over the land.\" Indeed, the Tunku said in 1964 that \"It is understood by all that this country by its very name, its traditions and character, is Malay. ... In any other country where aliens try to dominate economic and other fields, eventually there is bitter opposition from the indigenous people. But not with the Malays. Therefore, in return, they must appreciate the position of the Malays...\" It has been suggested that a Malaysian nationality did not emerge because \"all the national symbols in Malaysia were derived from the Malay tradition\".\n\nThe Constitutional restraint on the size of rural Parliamentary constituencies was later removed, providing what one commentator called \"an indirect buttress\" to Malay special rights; as Malays were concentrated in rural areas, this indirectly enhanced Malay political power. The original Constitution had implicitly followed \"one man, one vote\". The change was denounced as \"giving one man one vote, another a number of votes: not on the basis of, say, intellectual ability or geographical accident, but in order to ensure the dominance of a particular group.\"\n\nThe constitutional provisions, which have been referred to as the \"Malay Agenda\", evoked little sentiment from non-Malays, despite most of them gaining citizenship and thus becoming theoretically equal to Malay citizens under the Constitution. This could be attributed to acceptance of the social contract, of which one historian wrote: \"At the elite level, non-Malays recognized that Malays were politically superior by virtue of their indigenous status and that the Malaysian polity would have a Malay character ... Malays were to be assured of safe majorities in both the state and federal parliament ... Malays would control the highest positions of the government and ... dominate members of the federal cabinet.\" A Malay historian wrote that \"In return the Chinese gained more than overseas Chinese in Southeast Asia had dreamed of — equal citizenship, political participation and office holding, unimpaired economic opportunity, and tolerance for their language, religion, and cultural institutions.\"\n\nSome expressed trepidation at Article 153; shortly before independence, the \"China Press\" suggested that while special rights \"may be excusable at the start of the building of a nation,\" if \"the period of 'special rights' is not restricted, or the scope of special rights is not clearly defined, then endless disputes ... will arise later on,\" and argued that special rights would eventually divide instead of unite Malayans. Nevertheless, at the time of independence, some historians assert, \"there was a genuine sense of common citizenship, common aspirations, a common destiny.\" This was about to change.\n\nIn 1961, when the Malayan government began discussing a possible merger with neighbouring Singapore, Sabah, Sarawak and Brunei, problems of ethnic power relations arose again. The \"Malaysia\" proposal sans Sabah and Sarawak went back more than a decade; earlier negotiations had proved fruitless. The Singaporeans themselves were not anxious to be ruled by what they considered a Malay government. By 1961, however, Singapore had grown receptive to the idea of joining Malaysia, largely because of the prevailing idea at the time that industrial Singapore could not survive without access to Malayan markets.\n\nThe Malayan government was not keen on having the Chinese Singaporean population push the Malays into a minority position in the new Malaysia. Many Malays felt that upsetting the Malay-dominated nature of the armed forces and police might place them in a dangerous situation. It was also argued that the inferior economic position of the Malays would be emphasised by the entry of even more rich Chinese, setting the stage for major discontent. The Malayans decided to resolve this by merging with Sabah and Sarawak; both British colonies had large native populations whom the government considered \"Malay\". Under Article 160 of the Constitution, most of them were not Malay; the natives were mainly animists or Christians instead of Muslims as required. To resolve this issue, the government expanded its informal definition of \"Malay\" to include these people.\n\nSabahans and Sarawakians could not see how they would benefit from merger. Many regarded Malaya as being only for the Malays, a group they did not include themselves in. The spectre of \"Malaysia\" — the inclusion of the phrase \"Malay\" being considered frightening — with its official religion of Islam and official language of Malay, did nothing to soothe their fears of \"Malay domination\". For merger to come about, they insisted the natives of Sabah and Sarawak be awarded the same privileges as Malays. A 20-point agreement between Sabah and the Malayan government, and a slightly different 18-point agreement by Sarawak, was later agreed upon. After much negotiation and a show of support from the British for merger, the impasse was resolved. Although natives of Borneo were denied the privileges of Malays, merger was effected on 16 September 1963.\n\nIn the 1963 Singapore state elections, the Alliance challenged the governing People's Action Party (PAP) through the Singapore Alliance Party. UMNO politicians actively campaigned in Singapore for the Singapore Alliance, contending that Singaporean Malays were being treated as second-class citizens under the Chinese-dominated, though ostensibly multiracial, PAP government. However, all of the UMNO-backed Malay candidates lost to the PAP. The PAP politicians, who saw this as a betrayal of an earlier agreement with the Alliance not to contest elections in Malaya and Singapore (respectively), decided to run on the mainland in the 1964 general election. Although the PAP attracted large crowds at its rallies, it won only one seat — that by Devan Nair, who represented the Bangsar constituency. It is thought by some historians that Finance Minister and MCA President Tan Siew Sin's appeal to the Chinese to avoid challenging the Malay special rights and risk merger with Indonesia helped the MCA retain its status as the \"undisputed leader of the Chinese in the Malayan peninsula\". Nevertheless, UMNO leaders were furious with the PAP.\n\nNew problems soon cropped up. Lee Kuan Yew, the leader of the Singaporean government and the PAP, declared his open opposition to \"ketuanan Melayu\", calling for a \"Malaysian Malaysia\" instead of the implied Malay Malaysia. He argued that \"Malays began to migrate to Malaysia in noticeable numbers only about 700 years ago. Of the 39% Malays in Malaysia today, about one-third are comparatively new immigrants like (Syed Jaafar Albar), who came to Malaya from Indonesia just before the war at the age of more than thirty. Therefore it is wrong and illogical for a particular racial group to think that they are more justified to be called Malaysians and that the others can become Malaysian only through their favour.\"\n\nLee later lamented: \"Malaysia — to whom does it belong? To Malaysians. But who are Malaysians? I hope I am, Mr Speaker, Sir. But sometimes, sitting in this chamber, I doubt whether I am allowed to be a Malaysian. This is the doubt that hangs over many minds, and ... [once] emotions are set in motion, and men pitted against men along these unspoken lines, you will have the kind of warfare that will split the nation from top to bottom and undo Malaysia.\" At times, however, Lee worsened things by making racial comments of his own. Many of his speeches harped on the ethnic composition of Malaysia, reminding listeners that the non-Malays were now in the majority, with 61% of the population to the Malays' 39% asking at one point, \"Why should we go back to old Singapore and once again reduce the non-Malays in Malaya to a minority?\" Lee exacerbated deteriorating PAP-UMNO relations by constantly demanding that the federal government \"smack down their 'ultras'\", whose ranks included prominent UMNO leaders such as Syed Jaafar Albar and Syed Nasir Ismail.\n\nLee's statements upset many, especially Alliance politicians. Tan Siew Sin called him the \"greatest, disruptive force in the entire history of Malaysia and Malaya.\" The Tunku considered Lee too extremist in his views, while other UMNO politicians thought Lee was simply pandering to Malaysian Chinese with his rhetoric. Lee's statement about allegedly recent Malay migration met with stinging rebuttals; Albar declared: \"To say that the Malays are in the same category as other races is an insult...\" The UMNO newspaper \"Malaya Merdeka\" warned: \"If the Malays are hard-pressed and their interests are not protected,\" they would merge Malaysia with Indonesia. It was this that the Tunku feared the most. To him, the ultras were not the real extremists — it was those who sought a \"Greater Indonesia\" to \"fix\" the Chinese that were the real threat.\n\nThe strain in race relations led to the Singaporean 1964 Race Riots, which PAP Malay politician Othman Wok later insinuated were planned beforehand by the ultras. In the year following the riots, tension continued growing. Syed Jaafar Albar declared that \"Wherever I am, I am a Malay\", drawing harsh return fire from Lee, who stated in Parliament: \"If I had been going round and saying what [he] has been saying — wherever I am, I am a Chinese — where would we be? But I keep on reminding the people that I am a Malaysian. I am learning \"Bahasa Kebangsaan\" [Malay, the national language] and I accept Article 153 of the Constitution.\"\n\nLee insisted that he was not opposed to Malay special rights or Article 153, saying: \"if the immigrant communities ... do not see the problems, if they can't feel what it is like to be a poor Malay, and don't feel for him, then I can say very soon he will manifest his disaffection in a very decisive way and the whole country will be thrown into turmoil.\" Few from the Alliance took this claim seriously. UMNO politicians insisted that a \"Malaysian Malaysia\" implied total equality, entailing the removal of Malay privileges. Senu Abdul Rahman, a federal Minister, felt Lee's advocacy of equality would deny the Malays the possibility of economic participation: \"What we want is opportunity, the opportunity to obtain economic wealth for our people.\" Condemning Lee for stating he was a Malaysian by his own right, Senu asked: \"The right which Lee is enjoying today did not fall from the sky or out of the blue. It was given to him. Doesn't he have some feeling of gratitude to the natives of this country?\" Lee answered: \"No, I am not enjoying anyone's hospitality. I am here as of right. And 61 per cent of the people of Malaysia have to stand by that or it is lost. Without it they would have no future.\" Some, such as Syed Jaafar Albar, took Senu's stance further and referred to the Malays, as the Bumiputra, as \"masters of the house\", whose hospitality was being abused by the \"bangsa asing\" (aliens) or \"orang tumpangan\" (lodgers) such as Lee. This provoked a response from Cabinet member Lim Swee Aun insisting \"we are co-owners, not lodgers, not guests.\"\n\nSome went against the common view held in UMNO. Ismail Abdul Rahman told Parliament that \"...both the Alliance and the PAP subscribe to the concept of a Malaysian Malaysia,\" but differed in their methods. Ismail characterised the PAP's approach as \"non-communalism straightaway,\" while the Alliance required \"two steps. First, inter-racial harmony; second, and ultimate state of non-communalism.\" Such statements were dismissed by Lee as lip service that could not be taken seriously unless the ultras were reined in.\n\nLee continued his campaign, forming the Malaysian Solidarity Council (MSC) comprising multi-racial parties such as the PAP, the People's Progressive Party (PPP) and the United Democratic Party (UDP) in 1965. At the MSC's first and only general meeting, several leaders from these parties gave speeches supporting a Malaysian Malaysia. D.R. Seenivasagam of the PPP accused the Alliance of using Article 153 to \"bully non-Malays\", while Ong Kee Hui of the Sarawak United People's Party (SUPP) said that \"We see an attitude of intolerance and mounting signs of denial of political equality to people who are non-Malays. For the sake of our country and ourselves, this must be stopped and the drift to narrow racialism checked. Political equality should be accorded to all who live here and make this country their home, irrespective of their racial origin.\"\n\nSoon after, UMNO backbencher Mahathir bin Mohamad attacked Lee in Parliament: \"[The Singaporean Chinese] have never known Malay rule and cannot bear the idea that the people they have so long kept under their heels should now be in a position to rule them.\" Lee responded with an unscripted speech made entirely in Malay opposing the government's pro-Malay policies: \"Of course there are Chinese millionaires in big cars and big houses. Is it the answer to make a few Malay millionaires with big cars and big houses? ... If we delude people into believing that they are poor because there are no Malay rights or because opposition members oppose Malay rights, where are we going to end up? You let people in the villages believe that they are poor because we don't speak Malay, because the government does not write in Malay, so he expects a miracle to take place [when Malay becomes the sole national language]. The moment we all start speaking Malay, he is going to have an uplift in the standard of living, and if doesn't happen, what happens then? Meanwhile, whenever there is a failure of economic, social and educational policies, you come back and say, oh, these wicked Chinese, Indian and others opposing Malay rights. They don't oppose Malay rights. They, the Malay, have the right as Malaysian citizens to go up to the level of training and education that the more competitive societies, the non-Malay society, has produced. That is what must be done, isn't it? Not to feed them with this obscurantist doctrine that all they have got to do is to get Malay rights for the few special Malays and their problem has been resolved.\"\n\nEventually, the Tunku — fed up with all the politicking and convinced that any further clashes of rhetoric would only degenerate into violence — asked Singapore to secede. Singapore became an independent nation in 1965, with Lee as its first Prime Minister. Although Article 152 of the Constitution of Singapore names the Malays as \"indigenous people\" of Singapore and mandates special safeguarding of their rights and privileges, the article does not specify any policies for such safeguarding.\n\nSome later blamed the formation of Malaysia for strengthening \"ketuanan Melayu\": \"A reinforcement of Malay rights — which during the previous five or six years [prior to the formation of Malaysia] had been withering away as the Reid Commission might have suspected they would — took place against a background of general unequal treatment\" after Malaysia's formation.\n\nThe Constitution specified a ten-year delay after independence in changing the national language from English to Malay. As the scheduled date in 1967 drew near some Chinese began to agitate for a more liberal language policy permitting some instances of Mandarin in public affairs. Extremists from UMNO and PAS lashed out against them, but the Alliance proposed a compromise in the National Language Bill establishing Malay as the official language, but permitting English under certain circumstances and the use of non-Malay languages for non-official purposes. The Tunku described it as \"a course guaranteeing peace\", but the Bill was widely derided by many Malays, who formed the National Language Action Front in hope of repealing or amending it. The leadership of the Tunku was also openly questioned.\n\nIn 1969, a general election was held. It was the first to be contested on a major scale by non-Malay-based opposition parties, other than the 1964 election where the PAP challenged the Alliance in Peninsular Malaysia. The two main opposition parties on this front in 1969 were the Democratic Action Party (DAP) — the Malaysian successor to the PAP, widely seen as Chinese-based — and the Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia (Gerakan), an ostensibly multiracial party led by former MCA stalwart, Lim Chong Eu, and other middle-class intellectuals like Tan Chee Khoon and Syed Hussein Alatas. Both proposed policies on language, education, and Malay rights that were diametrically opposed to those of the government, with the DAP continuing where Lee Kuan Yew had left off with the \"Malaysian Malaysia\" campaign. Some, mostly from the DAP, called for the elevation of English, Mandarin and Tamil to official language status, along with Malay. Stronger government support for the Chinese education stream was also demanded.\n\nPAS, on the other hand, attempted to garner votes by accusing UMNO of selling out the Malays' indigenous rights to \"pendatang asing\". When the results were released, PAS had made minor inroads, but the DAP and Gerakan managed to topple the Alliance from power in three states, and nearly eradicated the Alliance's traditional two-thirds majority in Parliament. A large part of these gains came at the expense of the MCA, which soon announced that it would not participate in the new government after the election, as the MCA no longer had a mandate to represent Chinese interests in the government. The jubilant DAP and Gerakan organised victory parades in the national capital of Kuala Lumpur on 11 and 12 May, where participants taunted the Malays while bearing slogans such as \"Semua Melayu kasi habis\" (\"Finish off all the Malays\"). An apology was issued soon after the rallies. Nevertheless, the shocked Malays blamed Chinese voters for betraying \"the Alliance formula by voting for an opposition that had revived fundamental questions of language and Malay special rights\".\n\nMalay extremists welcomed the MCA's move, feeling an UMNO- and Malay-dominated government would better serve their purposes. UMNO held its own rally, which soon became a riot, on 13 May. This would later be euphemistically labelled as the \"13 May Incident\". UMNO supporters gathered at Harun's house on the evening of 13 May, where the rally was due to start, with many brandishing parangs (machetes) and other weapons. Some leaders condemned the \"insults\" of the \"infidels\" at the previous victory parades, calling the counter-rally a means \"to teach the Chinese a lesson\" for challenging Malay supremacy. Soon, the crowd began attacking passing Chinese motorists, and launched arson attacks on Chinese homes and shops. The rioting spread, and, despite the military being called in, continued for another two days.\n\nAs a result of the riots, Parliament was suspended, and a state of national emergency was declared. A National Operations Council (NOC) was formed to oversee the administration of the country under emergency rule. Although the rioting had died down, tensions continued to simmer. A non-Malay boycott of Malay goods and services received \"near total\" support, while many Malays, such as Mahathir Mohamad and Raja Muktaruddin Daim began calling for an autocracy led by UMNO alone, and the removal of the Tunku. According to some sources, one group of \"ultras\", comprising Syed Nasir Ismail, Musa Hitam, and Tengku Razaleigh, felt that the power-sharing Constitution had failed, and agreed that the country had to be \"returned\" to the Malays. They allegedly agreed to summon Mahathir to Kuala Lumpur, where he led his anti-Tunku campaign.\n\nMahathir wrote an open letter to the Tunku, accusing him of \"giving the Chinese what they demand ... you have given them too much face.\" Soon, students at higher educational institutions across the country began to hold mass demonstrations, calling for the Tunku to step down in favour of a leader who would restore \"Malay sovereignty\". Sporadic rioting, believed to have been instigated by the Tunku's opponents, broke out.\n\nInstead of bowing to their demands, the Tunku had Mahathir and Musa Hitam expelled from UMNO. The Minister of Home Affairs, Ismail Abdul Rahman, alleged that \"These ultras believe in the wild and fantastic theory of absolute dominion by one race over the other communities, regardless of the Constitution. ... Polarisation has taken place in Malaysian politics and the extreme racialists among the ruling party are making a desperate bid to topple the present leadership.\"\n\nMahathir spent his political exile writing \"The Malay Dilemma\", where he contended \"that the Malays are the original or indigenous people of Malaya and the only people who can claim Malaya as their one and only country. In accordance with practice all over the world, this confers on the Malays certain inalienable rights over the forms and obligations of citizenship which can be imposed on citizens of non-indigenous origin.\" (Referring to the social contract.)\n\nMahathir expressed discomfort with \"far too many non-Malay citizens who can swamp the Malays\" when \"...suddenly it has dawned upon the Malay that he cannot even call Malaya his land. There is no more \"Tanah Melayu\" — land of the Malays. He is now a different person, a Malaysian, but a Malay Malaysian whose authority in Malaya — his land — is now not only shared with others, but shared unequally. And as if this is not enough, he is being asked to give up more and more of his share of influence.\" Mahathir's defence of Malay rights focused both on the \"definitive people\" line of reasoning and the argument in favour of affirmative action, which the Reid Commission had chosen: \"It is not... for reasons of Malay superiority that preferential treatment for Malays in scholarship awards was insisted upon. ... They are a means of breaking down the superior position of the non-Malays in the field of education. The Malays are not proud of this treatment.\" Shortly after becoming Prime Minister, Mahathir denied he had altered any of his views since he wrote the book.\n\nMahathir and Musa Hitam later rejoined UMNO and the government under Tun Abdul Razak, the second Prime Minister, whose New Economic Policy (NEP), was based on some of the reforms Mahathir's book had advocated. The NEP's stated goal was elimination of \"the identification of race with economic function\". To achieve this, it targeted a 30% share of the economy for the \"Bumiputra\" — \"sons of the soil,\" a term referring to Malays and other indigenous peoples — by 1990. This became known as the \"30 per cent solution\" setting the \"Bumiputra quota\" for many items, including new public share listings and new private housing schemes. Certain commentators alleged that this fostered \"a close to 'zero-sum' attitude chiefly between the Malays and Chinese\". The NEP's stated aim, however, was not to directly redistribute wealth but to enlarge the economic pie while providing a larger share of the gains for Malays, thus increasing participation in the economy for all.\n\nThe main rationale for the NEP as set out in the Second Malaysia Plan was to address the \"economic imbalance\" between the Chinese and Malays. In 1969, the Malay share of equity reportedly stood at 1.5% while the Chinese held 22.8%; the rest was largely in foreign hands. Some detractors argued that while the Chinese share of the economy had increased at the Malays' expense, more significant growth in inequality had occurred between the richest and poorest Malays — between 1957 and 1970, the wealthiest 20% of Malays' share in the Malay portion of the economy reportedly increased from 42.5% to 52.5% while the poorest 40% saw a decrease from 19.5% to 12.7%.\n\nThe NOC issued a report of its own analysing the root causes of the 13 May violence, suggesting that even in the civil service, a traditional Malay employer, non-Malays outnumbered the Malays in many areas, with substantial Malay majorities only in the Police and Armed Forces. The report concluded: \"Allegations that the non-Malays are excluded are regarded by the Malays as deliberate distortion. The Malays who already felt excluded in the country's economic life, now began to feel a threat to their place in the public services. No mention was ever made by non-Malay politicians of the almost closed-door attitude to the Malays by non-Malays in large sections of the private sector in this country.\"\n\nAccording to the Second Malaysia Plan, the NEP aimed to \"create a Malay commercial and industrial community\" through \"wholly owned enterprises and joint ventures\". Prior to this, the government had, in the words of a local economist, played \"administrative, supportive, and regulatory\" roles in attempting to address the economic imbalance, but avoided \"represent[ing] direct and active efforts in promoting\" Malay interests. Now, the government would not only \"[limit] access of the Chinese and Indian population to universities, public jobs and public money,\" but also actively intervene in the economy to give \"[the Bumiputra] a bigger piece of the business action\". One criticism of this increased intervention was that UMNO supposedly \"became a major beneficiary of the expanded role of the state\".\n\nThere had been limited affirmative action programmes before. However, these mostly focused on the civil service, as Article 153 of the Constitution did. Admission to higher education was largely merit-based. The Tunku government preferred \"laissez-faire\" policies, minimising economic intervention. Although some agencies, such as the Rural Industrial Development Agency (RIDA), which attempted to aid Malay entrepreneurs, existed, their programs were criticised as being based on handouts and favouring the politically connected. RIDA was renamed as the Majlis Amanah Rakyat (The Indigenous People's Trust Council) or MARA in 1965, and came to symbolise the development of Malay entrepreneurship.\n\nAlthough the NEP was aimed at addressing economic imbalances, it soon became associated with \"ketuanan Melayu\". While the two were rarely directly equated, they were often mentioned together, with the implication that the NEP was derived from \"ketuanan Melayu\". The NEP's greater intervention in the economy led some to \"equate UMNO's monolithic image as the undisputed champion of Malay supremacy with the party's ability to shore up lucrative business deals.\"\n\nParliament finally reconvened again in 1971. Although the NEP was passed without its approval, Parliament's consent was required to amend the Constitution. The government-tabled Constitution (Amendment) Act 1971, in conjunction with some amendments to the Sedition Act, limited freedom of speech on \"sensitive issues\" such as the national language, Malay special rights, the Malay rulers, and the provisions for citizenship. These restrictions also applied to Members of Parliament, over-ruling their previous Parliamentary immunity. The amendments also clarified Article 152's meaning, and included the \"natives of any of the States of Sabah and Sarawak\" under Article 153, extending the formerly Malay-only rights to all Bumiputra. In addition, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (King) could now direct any university or college to implement a proportion-based quota system favouring the Bumiputra. All higher educational institutions immediately enacted quota systems on the orders of the Education Ministry; some later questioned the move's constitutionality on the grounds that the King himself had not issued any directive.\n\nTo cap all this, the amendment of articles touching on the \"sensitive issues\" mentioned, as well as the clause governing this rule on amendments, was forbidden without the consent of the Conference of Rulers. Effectively entrenching the \"sensitive\" Articles, this was heavily criticised by opposition MPs. It was claimed that if Parliament could be prevented from discussing particular issue, Parliamentary sovereignty was undermined. It was also unclear if the ban from speaking on \"sensitive issues\" applied to the ban itself. Nevertheless, the provisions were passed. The Internal Security Act (ISA), which effectively allows the government to detain anyone it deems a threat to national security for an indefinite period without judicial review, was also amended in 1971 to stress the \"preservation of intercommunal harmony\".\n\nMany of these changes saw fierce opposition in Parliament and abroad. When the proposed changes were first announced, the British press charged they would \"preserve as immutable the feudal system dominating Malay society\" by \"giving this archaic body of petty constitutional monarchs incredible blocking power\". The censorship of sensitive issues was labelled as paradoxical when contrasted with Tun Abdul Razak's speaking of \"the full realization that important matters must no longer be swept under the carpet...\" Other critics argued that Article 153 was nothing more than a \"paper rice bowl\", and in any case, did not even include the \"orang asli\" (native people) or aborigines within the scope of its privileges, rendering its rationale somewhat suspect.\n\nAnother important policy change came in the field of education. In 1970, the government made Malay the medium of instruction for primary, secondary, and tertiary education, replacing English. Although government funding for the Chinese and Tamil education streams continued, many non-Malays considered this new policy to be \"the most discriminatory\" thus far. The government's rationale was that this would provide better educational opportunities for the Malays, especially those who formerly had to make the transition from Malay-medium primary and secondary schools to English-medium universities. It was also argued that uniting students under one language would provide for greater racial harmony, while indirectly underscoring the \"Malay nature of the state\".\n\nThe same year that the medium of instruction was changed to Malay, the National Culture Policy (NCP) was announced. Syed Nasir Ismail described the government's policies as aimed at creating a \"Bumiputra Muslim identity\" (\"identiti Islam Kebumiputraan\") for Malaysians. In essence, the NCP's goal was to eventually assimilate the non-indigenous peoples into an indigenous Malaysian identity. Despite stiff opposition from Chinese pressure groups, the government refused to withdraw the NCP. To foster national unity, the Rukunegara, or national ideology, was also introduced. Although the Rukunegara itself contains no references to \"ketuanan Melayu\" or the social contract, a government commentary mentioned the \"position of Malays and other Natives, the legitimate interests of the other communities, and the conferment of citizenship\" as key aspects of the Constitution while insisting: \"No citizen should question the loyalty of another citizen on the ground that he belongs to a particular community.\" One political pundit described it as a formal declaration of the social contract or \"Racial Bargain\".\n\nThe old Alliance model, where each race was represented by one party, was repudiated with the formation of the Barisan Nasional (BN, or the National Front) in 1974. Several former opposition parties, including Gerakan, the PPP and PAS, joined the UMNO-led BN. Although the MCA and MIC were included, their influence was diluted by other non-Malay parties in the coalition. In 1977, PAS' expulsion left UMNO as the sole Malay representative in BN, although some ostensibly multiracial parties provided token Malay representation. After its departure, PAS took a different approach to Malay privileges, denouncing the NEP as racial discrimination and \"unIslamic\".\n\nIn 1974, Mahathir was appointed as a Minister in Tun Razak's Cabinet. He became the Deputy Prime Minister just two years later, under Tun Hussein Onn, who had succeeded Tun Razak upon the latter's sudden death.\n\nDuring the 1970s — the heyday of the NEP — \"Malay dominance\" was a largely accepted fact of life for Malaysians. Whereas the 1957 to 1969 period was viewed as a time when \"Malay dominance\" was at least tempered by a form of \"inter-ethnic bargaining\" within the Alliance government, from the 13 May Incident onwards, political pundits argued that the political environment was now under marked \"hegemonic control\" from the Malays and UMNO; in 1970, one Cabinet member pronounced that Malay special rights would remain for \"hundreds of years to come\". The Tunku observed in 1977 that \"it appears in the minds of the non-Bumiputras that they are being turned into second-class citizens in the country.\" The government's ethnic policies continued to be based on and justified by the two basic arguments Mahathir had applied in his \"Dilemma\"; the \"historical\" status of Malay primacy over Malaya, and the \"special needs\" of the Malays. As public discussion or questioning of these issues had been criminalised, there were few locally published works critically discussing Malay supremacy, complicating attempts to evaluate it or establish further grounds for government policy beyond the main two traditionally put forth.\n\nThe \"ultras\" who had allegedly plotted to exploit the post-13 May chaos were now in control of the country. Razaleigh, the Finance Minister, was hailed as the \"Father of the Bumiputra Economy\" . Musa Hitam and Mahathir, both rising stars on the political scene, maintained their image as \"ultras\", although it is unclear if this was their intention. Journalist K. Das once claimed Musa had told him \"that a young Malaysian politician has to play the race card to the hilt even if there was not a single chauvinistic bone in his body.\" After retiring, Musa said that \"the national leaders tend to look for a scapegoat when faced with a desperate crisis situation\" and use racial tactics to fill their \"empty stomach\".\n\nUMNO Youth in particular maintained its \"ultra\" image from the 1960s. One of its Vice-Presidents said in response to discussion of opening different teams in UMNO based on political ideology that \"The original cause of UMNO is to fight for the interests of the Malay race and this must continue. We do not want factions in UMNO.\" In 1980, Tun Hussein Onn announced that he would be handing power over to Mahathir due to poor health. Mahathir took office in 1981, with Musa Hitam as his deputy.\n\nThe affirmative action policies of the NEP continued under Mahathir. Political pundits considered this administration, in its early period, to be a continuation of the \"hegemonic control\" of Malaysian politics by the Malays, and by UMNO in particular. During this time, Mahathir focused on consolidating his power within UMNO and the government. As a result, there was little active confrontation between the Malays and the non-Malays on the issue of \"ketuanan Melayu\" at the time.\n\nIn 1981, the MCA assessed the NEP and other government policies from a Chinese point of view. Its findings expressed concern over a number of problems, including alleged disrespect of the citizenship of the Malaysian Chinese and the Malay-dominated civil service, claiming the NEP's goal of eradicating identification of race with economic function had been abrogated. In addition, it was argued that non-Malays were under-represented in Parliament and the Cabinet because of gerrymandering; mostly Malay rural Parliamentary constituencies outnumbered heterogeneous urban constituencies, despite the total population of urban constituencies exceeding that of rural ones. However, UMNO avoided directly confronting the MCA over the issue.\n\nTensions rose after the 1986 general election when it appeared that UMNO on its own commanded a working Parliamentary majority, allowing it to govern without the support of other parties. Several UMNO leaders seriously discussed the possibility of governing alone; one, Abdullah Ahmad, publicly espoused permanent Malay supremacy and relegating non-Malays to second-class citizenship. Such calls for unilateralism were eventually disregarded, and the Barisan Nasional government continued. However, some UMNO officials warned non-Malay parties to avoid \"playing with fire\" by questioning the Malays' special rights and privileges or \"Hak Keistimewaan Orang Melayu\". At the UMNO General Assembly that year, Mahathir stated: \"We do not wish to rob other people of their rights. But let no one try to rob us of our rights.\" When Parliament reconvened, the DAP began raising objections to what they alleged was the division of Malaysians into \"first and second class citizens\". In response, some UMNO MPs began referring to the non-Malays as \"pendatang asing\" (foreign immigrants, or aliens) in Parliament. When the DAP attempted to enquire about the distribution of economic equity among the races to evaluate the NEP's progress, the Standing Orders of Parliament were amended to forbid such inquiries. This led the DAP to allege that the NEP's aims had been met, and that it could be allowed to expire in 1990.\n\nSome, such as Petaling Jaya city councillor Richard Yeoh, believe that Abdullah Ahmad, an aide of Mahathir's, was the first to use the term \"ketuanan Melayu\". Yeoh described the context in which Ahmad used it as \"a fairly benign speech and most of us might have had no problem with it, but it has been taken to mean Malay supremacy by some Umno leaders who don't necessarily know what it means.\"\n\nEthnic tension continued to grow shortly after Mahathir narrowly defeated Tengku Razaleigh Hamzah for the UMNO Presidency in 1987. Around this time, several deposit-taking co-operatives (DTCs), some associated with the MCA, collapsed. To save Chinese investors, the MCA asked the government to bail out the DTCs, citing a previous bailout of Bumiputra financial institutions. UMNO's reluctance to acquiesce led MCA Deputy President Lee Kim Sai to warn that the MCA might quit the government. Later that year, the government posted several non-Chinese-educated staff to senior positions in Chinese vernacular schools. Anwar Ibrahim, then Education Minister, refused to yield to protests from the MCA, and stated that the decision was final, despite a previous informal agreement on the issue between the Malay and Chinese communities.\n\nThe Gerakan, MCA and DAP held rallies and boycotted classes in Chinese primary schools to protest the move; UMNO Youth held its own rallies to assert \"ketuanan Melayu\", hosting banners with slogans such as \"revoke the citizenship of those who opposed the Malay rulers\", \"13 May has begun\", and \"soak it [the \"keris\", a Malay dagger] with Chinese blood\". Future Deputy Prime Minister and then UMNO Youth Chief Najib Razak (the son of Tun Razak) threatened to bathe a \"keris\" with Chinese blood. The flames were fanned further when in an unrelated incident, a Malay soldier ran amok in a predominantly Chinese area, killing one and injuring another two.\n\nThe government then launched Operation Lalang (Weeding Operation), detaining 55 people under the ISA. More were arrested over the next few months. Although most were opposition politicians — including Parliamentary Opposition Leader Lim Kit Siang — a few from BN were included. All BN politicians were released from detention after two months, while those from the opposition remained in custody for much longer. The government later justified these detentions on grounds of security, stating that the detainees had played up the issue of Chinese education to incite racial sentiment. Some of Mahathir's supporters saw this as a vindication of his rejection of the Tunku's \"compromise\" with the non-Malays, teaching the non-Malays not to criticise the government and its pro-Malay policies.\n\nMany critics did not take this explanation seriously. UMNO was in crisis at the time, with Mahathir's faction narrowly defeating Razaleigh's in the party elections. Razaleigh's supporters filed a lawsuit alleging irregularities in the election process which appeared likely to succeed, triggering new party elections. In this context, one MCA politician charged that the government had pursued a \"hidden agenda,\" deflecting public attention from UMNO's crisis with a \"deviation in the implementation of the Chinese education policy.\" The Tunku himself claimed that Mahathir used the issue to mobilise the Malays \"as a united force to a common enemy — and the imaginary enemy in this case was the Chinese community.\"\n\nIn the end, Mahathir's camp \"won\" the court case when it was held that as the party was an illegal organisation under the Societies Act due to some of its branches not being formally registered, the plaintiffs' case was invalid; an illegal society could not hold new elections for its leaders. Mahathir immediately set up \"UMNO (Baru)\" (New UMNO), transferring all of old UMNO's assets to the new party. Most of his supporters also joined UMNO (Baru), and eventually the \"(Baru)\" was dropped, making it, for all intents and purposes, the same as the old UMNO. When the Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal on the case, the government suspended and later sacked Lord President Salleh Abas and five other Supreme Court judges, triggering the 1988 Malaysian constitutional crisis. The new Supreme Court later dismissed the case.\n\nRazaleigh then formed the Semangat 46 (Spirit of '46) party to challenge the government. In the 1990 general election, \"ketuanan Melayu\" was used as an issue, with UMNO accusing Semangat 46, PAS, the DAP and other opposition parties of conspiring to end Malay supremacy. The government also repeatedly warned that the 13 May riots would be repeated if it did not maintain its two-thirds majority in Parliament. Full-page advertisements depicting bloodshed and carnage were published in major national newspapers. Tensions rose further when the Tunku called on voters to support Semangat 46 instead of the new UMNO, with several UMNO politicians demanding that his title of \"Bapa Kemerdekaan\" (Father of Independence) be withdrawn, and his statue removed from Parliament House. Despite this, the government retained its two-thirds Parliamentary majority, with Semangat 46 winning only eight seats.\n\nPrior to the expiration of the NEP in 1990, there was much debate over whether the policy should be renewed, replaced, or scrapped altogether. The government organised an official review of the NEP in the years leading up to its expiration. The NEP had been faced with a number of criticisms throughout its lifetime, most of them related to political corruption and other inefficiencies.\n\nOne point of dispute was the calculation of Malay equity. Although officially, as of 1992, the Malays controlled 18% of the economy, some dismissed this figure as misleading. It was argued that as in reality, much of this amount comprised equity held by government agencies, therefore it belonged to Malaysians as a whole. The practice of awarding public works contracts mainly to Bumiputras was argued to be stifling Malay competency by providing little incentive to improve. Many Bumiputra contractors in turn subcontracted their jobs to others, who were in some cases Chinese; \"Ali Baba\" arrangements with \"the Malay [Ali] using his privileges to acquire licences and permits denied the non-Malay, then accepting a fee to be the front-man while the non-Malay [Baba] ran the business,\" were prevalent. Some suggested that the NEP \"might have worked, if the Malay had actually wanted to learn the ropes. But more often than not, he just wanted to be rich.\"\n\nSome said the disbursement of shares favoured the politically connected, many of whom immediately sold the shares at market price, reaping the arbitrage instead of holding on and increasing the Malay share of equity, which the policy was intended to do. Although the NEP managed to create a class of Malay millionaires, it was charged that this was mainly due to cronyism, benefiting only the politically connected. Some agreed, but argued against taking action; one PAS politician stated: \"The Malays do not want justice to affect their interests.\" Other commentators have suggested that although most of the benefits under the NEP accrued to the politically connected, the government intended for them to \"trickle down to the Malay masses\", and also for the Malay nouveau riche to provide \"entrepreneurial role models\" for other Malays.\n\nDuring the 1980s, concern continued to grow about discrimination in higher education. At this point, the Education Minister told Parliament of \"dissatisfaction\" and \"disappointment\" among non-Malays concerning \"lessening opportunities\" for higher education. Later in 1997, then Education Minister Najib Tun Razak defended the quotas as necessary, claiming that only 5% of all local undergraduates would be Malays if quotas were abolished.\n\nAnother criticism was that the NEP and other affirmative action had actually reduced the Malays' self-confidence, despite Mahathir's intention of building a Malay business class to serve as role models for impoverished Malays. One Malay journalist opined: \"[U]nder this New Economic Policy, no Bumiputra could ever be sure that such 'victories' as came his way were fully deserved.\" The NEP was also criticised for seeking to improve the Malays' overall share of the economy, even if this share were to be held by a small number of Malays. Some quarters accused the NEP of being too heavy-handed in its approach towards affirmative action, maintaining it had \"deprived qualified non-Malays of opportunities for higher education and job promotions\" and forcing many non-Malays to emigrate instead. This, combined with the impressions of the NEP as corrupt and associated with \"ketuanan Melayu\", led to \"deep resentment\", particularly among the Chinese. The NEP was criticised as \"set[ting] those Malaysians so honoured with it above the rest, granting them the preferential treatment of the NEP,\" while \"divid[ing] Malaysians into first- and second-class citizens\".\n\nIn 1990, the NEP was replaced by the National Development Policy (NDP), which continued most of the NEP-era policies. The Malay share of the economy, though substantially larger, was not near the 30% target according to government figures. In its review of the NEP, the government found that although income inequality had been reduced, some important targets related to overall Malay corporate ownership had not been met. Both Mahathir and the Tunku had expressed concern that the Malays remained too reliant on the Chinese economically.\n\nClaims that the NEP had retarded economic growth were dismissed; it was posited that the NEP had managed to avert further racial rioting, which would have hurt economic growth more than the NEP. The NEP was also defended as having created a Malay middle class and improving standards of living without compromising the non-Bumiputra share of the economy in absolute terms; statistics indicated that the Chinese and Indian middle classes also grew under the NEP, albeit not as much as the Malays'. The overall Malaysian poverty rate had shrunk from 50% at independence to 7%. It was also argued that ethnic stereotypes had been largely stamped out due to the NEP's success in creating a Malay upper class. Although many of the NEP's goals were restated by the NDP, the new policy appeared to be geared more towards wealth retention and creation, as opposed to simple redistribution. Nevertheless, many of the policies from the NEP era were retained under the NDP, which was set to expire in 2020.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Mahathir and UMNO made a public about-face on the government's cultural policies, with the formation of the \"Wawasan 2020\" (Vision 2020) and \"Bangsa Malaysia\" (Malaysian Race) plans. Mahathir named one obstacle to establishing Malaysia as a developed nation by the year 2020 as: \"the challenge of establishing a matured, liberal and tolerant society in which Malaysians of all colours and creeds are free to practice and profess their customs, cultures and religious beliefs and yet feeling that they belong to one nation.\" Mahathir proposed the establishment of \"one \"Bangsa Malaysia\" with political loyalty and dedication to the nation\". After the government's 1995 general election victory, Mahathir elaborated: \"Bangsa Malaysia means people who are able to identify themselves with the country, speak \"Bahasa Malaysia\" (the Malaysian or Malay language) and accept the Constitution.\"\n\nMahathir later explained that \"The idea before was that people should become 100 per cent Malay in order to be Malaysian. We now accept that this is a multi-racial country. We should build bridges instead of trying to remove completely the barriers separating us.\" Such a dramatic change was perceived by the non-Malay communities as a \"complete retraction\" of earlier policies emphasising assimilation of non-Malays. The government took measures to stress this change, decreasing emphasis on Malay as the one and only national language by permitting local universities to use English as the medium of instruction for certain subjects. Diplomas from the MCA-sponsored and Chinese-majority Tunku Abdul Rahman College (TARC) were officially recognised by the government for employment in the civil service. For the first time, religions other than Islam were given airtime on state radio and television, although they were not allowed to proselytise. Lion dances — a traditional Chinese performance which had been banned for decades — were not only permitted but even attended by Mahathir and other top government officials.\n\nAlthough the early 1990s saw marked economic growth, commentators suggested that Mahathir's liberal policies had played the key role in his popularity and the Barisan Nasional's landslide 1995 election victory. One pundit wrote that \"Most Malaysians could not remember a time of greater prosperity or lesser inter-ethnic recrimination. ... Economic indicators alone would not have captured the pride that Malaysians had discovered, perhaps for [the] first time, in being Malaysian.\"\n\nLim Kit Siang attributed the opposition's defeat to Mahathir's liberalism and the government's adoption of the DAP's stance on issues like \"language, culture and education\". Some, however, doubted Mahathir's sincerity. One UMNO Youth official suggested that \"The Barisan government's flexible move ... only shows that we are enjoying the highest level of tolerance purely based on the level of confidence in terms of political and economic position of the Malays. We share the political power with the Chinese. When they need to increase their political support from their community it is very important for them to serve the main concerns of the Chinese. So, why shouldn't we allow that? We can ... achieve a win-win situation. This is a purely political move. ... Similarly we UMNO Youth have to be often seen as a very racialist political group fighting for the Malay interests. ... However, those finished agendas that we have done, such as Islam, \"Bahasa Melayu\" [the Malay language] and the special status of the Malays, should not be questioned in any circumstance because these are very sensitive issues.\"\n\nIn the latter part of the 1990s, government policies were loosened to combat the Asian economic crisis by encouraging foreign investment. In 1999, a new opposition party supported by Mahathir's former deputy, Anwar Ibrahim (who had been jailed for sodomy after his controversial sacking) led to a revival of the \"13 May\" warnings. However, the government maintained its Parliamentary majority. In 2003, Mahathir officially resigned as Prime Minister, and was succeeded by his deputy, Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.\n\nPrior to Abdullah's ascension in 2003, although \"ketuanan Melayu\" had been enunciated by several prominent Malay leaders, it had not been given a proper name. Around this time, the term \"ketuanan Melayu\" — \"tuan\" being the Malay word for \"lord\" or \"master\" — came into common usage, even entering the government-approved secondary school curriculum. Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia professor of sociology Norani Othman has said that the term is evocative of \"notions of enslavement,\" since \"In Malay classical terms, the word 'ketuanan' implies lordship over captives, which is a pre-feudal concept that is out of sync in 1957, 1963 and today.\"\n\nA government-approved secondary school history textbook published in 2004 by Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka, the government-owned publishing company, defined \"ketuanan Melayu\" as:\n\nIts English translation is as follows:\n\nIn 2003, the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) political party Youth Information Chief Azimi Daim stated: \"In Malaysia, everybody knows that Malays are the masters of this land. We rule this country as provided for in the federal constitution. Any one who touches upon Malay affairs or criticizes Malays is [offending] our sensitivities.\"\n\nAlthough its proponents claimed that \"ketuanan Melayu\" was directly derived from Article 153 of the Constitution, the Reid Commission which drafted the framework for the Constitution had stated that the provisions for Malay privileges were to be temporary in nature, and eventually abolished, citing the only reason for their existence as tradition and economic necessity as a form of affirmative action for the Malays. Despite this, those who challenge \"ketuanan Melayu\" or \"Malay rights\" were still often berated, especially by politicians from UMNO. Many UMNO politicians continued referring to non-Malays as \"orang pendatang\" or \"pendatang asing\" (foreign immigrants).\n\nBefore leaving office, Mahathir had condemned Malays who relied on their privileges. Abdullah continued this, warning Malays to learn to live without crutches or end up in wheelchairs. His administration began the practice of meritocracy, which Mahathir had tentatively proposed, and university admissions quotas were eliminated. However, some charged that this did not eliminate discrimination in education. The pre-university stream was divided into two; one course prepared students for the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia (STPM) standardised examination, lasting two years, while the other comprised various matriculation courses graded by individual lecturers, typically lasting a year.\n\nCritics dismissed meritocracy as a sham, arguing that it was unfair to consider the two streams equivalent for admissions purposes. Though ostensibly open to non-Bumiputra, critics alleged that most who took matriculation were Malays.\n\nPreviously, the constitutionality of Malay- or Bumiputra-only matriculation courses had been questioned, as the amended Article 153 prohibited refusal of admission to students on grounds of race alone. As a result, matriculation courses were opened to non-Bumiputra. However, some in UMNO considered meritocracy too harsh on rural Malay students, disadvantaging them compared to their urban counterparts, and called for the restoration of quotas to avoid an \"uneven playing field\".\n\nAt the 2004 UMNO General Assembly, Deputy Permanent Chairman Badruddin Amiruldin waved a book on 13 May Incident, warning: \"Fifty-eight years ago we had an agreement with the other races, in which we permitted them to \"menumpang\" [reside temporarily] on this land. ... Let no one from the other races ever question the rights of Malays on this land. Don't question the religion, because this is my right on this land.\" Then Higher Education Minister Shafie Salleh also declared at the assembly that non-Bumiputras would never be permitted to enter the Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM), which is Bumiputra-only: \"I will not compromise on this matter.\"\n\nThen at the following year's General Assembly, Education Minister and UMNO Youth head Hishammuddin Hussein — the son of Tun Hussein Onn — brandished the \"keris\" while calling for the restoration of the NEP as part of the National Development Policy (NDP) that Mahathir had initiated. According to Hishammuddin, the \"keris\" symbolised the role of UMNO Youth in championing the Malay race. Meanwhile, his deputy, Khairy Jamaluddin — Abdullah Badawi's son-in-law — discussed the revival of the NEP in the form of a separate entity titled as the New National Agenda (NNA). Hishammuddin would later describe the \"keris\" as a \"unifying symbol\", stating that \"The young people today no longer see it as a symbol to uphold \"ketuanan Melayu\".\"\n\nChinese politicians within the government raised issues with the Constitution in late 2005. Lim Keng Yaik of Gerakan asked for a re-examination of the social contract to ascertain whether \"Bangsa Malaysia\" could be achieved. Lim was severely criticised by many prominent Malay politicians, including Khairy Jamaluddin and Ahmad Shabery Cheek. The Malay press, mostly owned by UMNO, also ran articles condemning the questioning of the social contract. Lim responded: \"How do you expect non-Malays to pour their hearts and souls into the country, and to one day die for it if you keep harping on this? Flag-waving and singing the 'Negaraku' (national anthem) are rituals, while true love for the nation lies in the heart.\"\n\nA year earlier, Abdullah had mentioned the most \"significant aspect\" of the social contract as \"the agreement by the indigenous peoples to grant citizenship to the immigrant Chinese and Indians\". Although Abdullah went on to state that the character of the nation changed to \"one that Chinese and Indian citizens could also call their own,\" the speech went largely unremarked. Finally, Lim stated that the Malay press had blown his comments out of proportion and misquoted him. The issue ended with UMNO Youth chief Hishammuddin Hussein warning people not to \"bring up the issue again as it has been agreed upon, appreciated, understood and endorsed by the Constitution.\"\n\nIn January 2006, the government announced a Rukunegara awareness campaign. The government press agency, \"BERNAMA\", quoted the Tunku as saying in 1986 that \"The Malays are not only the natives but also the lords of this country and nobody can dispute this fact\". The articles of the Constitution touching on the official religion of Islam, the monarchy, the status of Malay as the national language, and Malay special rights were described as \"clearly spell[ing] out the acknowledgment and recognition that the Malays are the indigenous 'pribumi' [natives] of this land.\" It was then stated that the new emphasis on the Rukunegara was to prevent further questioning of the social contract, which \"decides on the political polarity and socio-economic standing of Malaysians\".\n\nLater, a survey of Malaysians found that 55% of respondents agreed politicians should be \"blamed for segregating the people by playing racial politics\". Mukhriz Mahathir — Mahathir's son and an UMNO Youth leader — defended UMNO's actions because of economic disparities, insisting that \"As long as that remains, there will always be people to champion each race to equalise things.\" Shahrir Abdul Samad, the chairman of the BN Backbenchers' Club, argued that politicians were simply responding to \"a country ... divided into different races,\" asking, \"if you talk about Malay issues to the Malay community, is that playing racial politics?\" M. Kayveas, the President of the PPP, disagreed: \"Every 12 months, the parties go back to one race championing their own causes and, at the end of the day, when the general election comes, we talk about 'Bangsa Malaysia'.\"\n\nReflecting the mutual climate of distrust and racialist policies in both Singapore and Malaysia (in Singapore, the policies allegedly being pro-Chinese), Lee Kuan Yew sparked another debate in September on the role of Malay primacy in Malaysian politics, stating that the Chinese had been \"systematically marginalised\" in both Malaysia and Indonesia. The resulting diplomatic incident, with ensuing denials of marginalisation from Malaysian government politicians, led to Lee issuing an apology for his remarks which also attempted to justify them. Abdullah indicated he was not satisfied with what he referred to as a \"qualified apology\", but the Malaysian government accepted it nevertheless.\n\nThe following month, a controversy arose after the Asian Strategic and Leadership Institute (ASLI) issued a report calculating Bumiputra-held equity at 45% — a stark difference from the official figure of 18.9%, used by politicians to justify the retention or revival of the NEP. One local analyst suggested that \"If Bumiputra equity is 45 per cent, then surely the next question is, why the need for Bumiputera rights? It has implications for government policy and it (removing indigenous rights) is one thing UMNO will never accept at present.\" The report's methodology was criticised for using market value instead of par value for its calculations of equity, and limiting its scope to a thousand publicly listed companies. It also included government-linked companies (GLCs) as Bumiputra-owned companies. Some, however, criticised the government, alleging that par value did not accurately reflect the value of the enterprises studied, and claimed that a portion of GLC equity should be considered Bumiputra-held. The report was later withdrawn, but the controversy continued after an independent media outlet cited a study following the government methodology that indicated Bumiputra equity had passed the 30% mark in 1997.\n\nAt the Johor UMNO convention that same month, Johor Menteri Besar (Chief Minister), Abdul Ghani Othman, criticised the \"Bangsa Malaysia\" and \"meritocracy\" policies. Ghani described \"Bangsa Malaysia\" as a threat to the Malays and their Constitutional position, suggesting it could \"threaten national stability\" as well. Ghani insisted that the policy \"be applied in the context ... with the Malays as the pivotal race\", and described meritocracy as a \"form of discrimination and oppression\" because rural Malay students could not compete with their urban counterparts. In the resulting controversy about his remarks, several federal ministers criticised Ghani, with one saying that \"Bangsa Malaysia\" \"has nothing to do with one race given a pivotal role over others\", and another arguing that \"It does not impinge on the rights of Bumiputeras or other communities.\" Ghani stood by his comments, declaring that the proponents of \"Bangsa Malaysia\" were also advocating a \"Malaysian Malaysia\", as Lee Kuan Yew had, even though \"the government has rejected it from the start.\" Najib, the Deputy Prime Minister, suggested that any effort to define \"Bangsa Malaysia\" politically would be fruitless, and as such the debate was unnecessary; he also insisted that \"It does not question the special rights of the Malays, our quota or anything of that sort.\" The UMNO Annual General Assembly that year was the first to be televised in full; it became a subject of controversy when delegates such as Hashim Suboh made speeches utilising heavy racial rhetoric; Hishammuddin, who had brandished the \"kris\" again, was asked by Hashim when he would \"use it\". After the assembly, Hishammuddin insisted that the \"kris\" was not a symbol of Malay supremacy.\n\nIn October 2007, Lee provoked more debate after suggesting that \"If they (Malaysia) would just educate the Chinese and Indians, use them and treat them as their citizens, they can equal us (Singapore) and even do better than us and we would be happy to rejoin them.\" UMNO Information Chief Muhammad Muhammad Taib responded, telling the press that Malaysia implemented policies to assist economically disadvantaged Malays, instead of neglecting them as Singapore did, stating also that at one point the Malays would have to compete on a level playing field with other Malaysians.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, BN was returned to power for the first time without its customary 2/3 supermajority in the \"Dewan Rakyat\", meaning it could no longer pass constitutional amendments without the support of opposition parties. The election results were widely seen as reflecting discontent about the state of the country's economy and increasing ethnic tensions within the country; the three main opposition parties had campaigned on a platform condemning the NEP and the government's response to widening economic disparities. The month after, the Crown Prince of Kelantan Tengku Faris Petra said during an assembly organised by the newly formed Malay Unity Action Front that since the Malays had given in to granting the non-Malays citizenship, the latter should not seek equality or special treatment. In his speech, the prince also called for Malay unity to ensure that Malay sovereignty and supremacy was preserved.\n\nAnwar Ibrahim, former UMNO deputy President and former Deputy Prime Minister, whose Parti Keadilan Rakyat became the second-largest party in Parliament after the elections, and the \"de facto\" leader of the opposition Pakatan Rakyat coalition, chose to instead reject \"ketuanan Melayu\" in favour of \"ketuanan rakyat\" (people's supremacy). Celebrating the end of his five-year ban from political activity on 15 April 2008, he told reporters: \"We are here to counter the massive propaganda campaign by Umno leaders, who are talking on Malay supremacy. And giving clear definitive answer in reply of this, to say that what we want, what we desire for is a new Malaysia, is supremacy for all Malaysians.\" A week later, his wife Wan Azizah Wan Ismail, president of PKR, told the press that \"we should not keep talking about Malay supremacy or marginalising a certain race, which is not what the people want to see,\" urging instead the adoption of \"ketuanan rakyat\".\n\nNot long thereafter, Hishammuddin himself apologised for his brandishing of the \"keris\" at the three previous UMNO annual general assemblies, saying he was sorry \"if it had affected the non-Malays\". He refused to comment on whether he would repeat the act in the future. His conditional apology was met with heavy criticism from within UMNO; one media outlet described the reaction as such: \"The sentiment among many in the party is that the Chinese and Indians betrayed the BN when they voted for Pakatan Rakyat. There is hurt. There is anger. So why should Hishammuddin be too concerned about what non-Malays think of the keris act?\" Many felt that the apology itself threatened Malay supremacy. Abdullah welcomed the apology, saying it was brave and \"made it clear to the non-Malays the important role the keris had in the Malay community\". In response to questions about the diminishing of Malay supremacy post-elections, he said that it was more about parity for the Bumiputra communities, rejecting the notion of political dominance:\n\nShortly thereafter, Information Minister Ahmad Shabery Cheek insisted that \"ketuanan Melayu\" did not imply a master-slave relationship in any sense between the Malays and non-Malays. Instead, he suggested, it referred to the institution of the Malay monarchs, who had once been the \"masters\", but gave up their primacy when the Federal Constitution was adopted at independence. Shabery cited Article 182 of the Constitution, which grants the royalty certain legal immunities, as an example of Malay supremacy. However, some prominent members of the royalty such as the Raja of Perlis and former Yang di-Pertuan Agong Tuanku Syed Sirajuddin Putra Syed Jamalullail have themselves been critical of \"ketuanan Melayu\"; in early 2009, the Raja stated that \"In Malaysia, every race is \"tuan\" [master]... I believe that if everyone understands that every individual of any race, should not be deprived of their rights, then the efforts of certain parties who think that the supremacy or rights should only be given to a particular race can be stopped.\"\n\nIn late 2009, the Cabinet decided to change the curriculum of Biro Tata Negara (National Civics Bureau, or BTN) programmes, which are mandatory for public servants and students studying on public funds. Many, especially politicians from Pakatan Rakyat, had previously criticised BTN programmes as propaganda for \"ketuanan Melayu\"; citing this, the Selangor state government banned its civil servants and students from attending BTN courses. Some Ministers and former Prime Minister Mahathir defended BTN as necessary to imbue participants with the values of discipline and honesty, denying they had anything to do with \"ketuanan Melayu\". Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Nazri Aziz insisted the Cabinet was right to demand a change in BTN, calling Mahathir a racist and saying:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48186", "title": "Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac", "text": "Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac\n\nThe Liberation Army of Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac (, UÇPMB) was an Albanian militant group fighting for separation from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for three municipalities: Preševo, Bujanovac, and Medveđa, home to most of the Albanians in south Serbia, adjacent to Kosovo. Of the three municipalities, only Preševo has an Albanian majority.\n\nUÇPMB's uniforms, procedures and tactics mirrored those of the then freshly disbanded Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA). The 1,500-strong paramilitary launched the insurgency in the Preševo Valley from 1999 to 2001, with the goal of seceding these municipalities from Yugoslavia and joining them to the protectorate of Kosovo.\n\nThe EU condemned what it described as the \"extremism\" and use of \"illegal terrorist actions\" by the group.\n\nAfter the end of the Kosovo War in 1999, a three-mile \"Ground Safety Zone\" (GSZ) was established between Kosovo (governed by the UN) and inner Serbia and Montenegro. Yugoslav Forces (VJ) units were not permitted there, and only the lightly armed Serbian Ministry of Internal Affairs forces were left in the area. \n\nThe exclusion zone included the predominantly Albanian village of Dobrosin, but not Preševo. Kosovo terrorism was exported across the borders, with former KLA members quickly established bases in the demilitarized zone, and Serbian police had to stop patrolling the area to avoid being ambushed. Ethnic Albanian politicians opposed to the KLA were attacked, including Zemail Mustafi (the vice-president of the Bujanovac branch of Slobodan Milošević's Socialist Party of Serbia) who was assassinated. \n\nBetween 21 June 1999 and 12 November 2000, 294 attacks were recorded, most of them (246) in Bujanovac, 44 in Medveđa and six in Preševo. These attacks resulted in 14 people killed (of which six were civilians and eight were policemen), 37 people wounded (two UN observers, three civilians and 34 policemen) and five civilians kidnapped. In their attacks, UÇPMB used mostly assault rifles, machine guns, mortars and sniper rifles, but occasionally also RPGs, hand grenades, and anti-tank and anti-personnel mines. \n\nThe UÇPMB included minors. \n\nAs the situation escalated, NATO allowed the VJ to reclaim the demilitarized zone on 24 May 2001, at the same time giving the UÇPMB the opportunity to turn themselves over to the Kosovo Force (KFOR), which promised to only take their weapons and note their names before releasing them. More than 450 UÇPMB members took advantage of KFOR's \"screen and release\" policy, among them commander Shefket Musliu, who turned himself over to KFOR at a checkpoint along the GSZ just after midnight of 26 May 2001.\n\nThe former KLA next moved to western Macedonia where they established the National Liberation Army, which fought against the Macedonian government in 2001. \n\nAli Ahmeti organized the NLA of former KLA fighters from Kosovo and Macedonia, Albanian insurgents from Preševo, Medveđa and Bujanovac in Serbia, young Albanian radicals and nationalists from Macedonia, and foreign mercenaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10907240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10907240", "title": "Mahtra War", "text": "Mahtra War\n\nMahtra War () was a peasant insurgency at the Mahtra estate (now in Rapla County, 60 km from Tallinn) in Estonia, in the then Russian Empire in May-July 1858.\n\nThe revolt was suppressed using the regular army, 14 peasants were wounded and 7 killed on site, 3 died later of wounds. The military casualties included 13 soldiers wounded and 1 officer killed. 60 of 65 peasant defendants were sentenced to death by a court-martial in Tallinn. Baltic governor-general Suvorov later reduced the sentences of 44 peasants to corporal punishment, 35 of whom were sentenced to exile in Siberia, while the remaining 21 defendants were set free. \n\nIn the Governorate of Estonia, serfdom was abolished in 1816 (in comparison, in the whole Russian Empire it was abolished in 1861), however the land was not redistributed among the peasants and the \"corvée\" labor was preserved (until 1876). The March 19, 1856 manifesto of Tsar Alexander II spoke about further agrarian reforms, but the implementation was slow, and this sparked the unrest, including the Mahtra revolt.\n\nThe events significantly influenced the work of the committees working on the project of the emancipation of the serfs in Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "411219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411219", "title": "Malaysian Chinese Association", "text": "Malaysian Chinese Association\n\nThe Malaysian Chinese Association (MCA; ; ; formerly known as Malayan Chinese Association) is a uni-racial political party in Malaysia that seeks to represents the Malaysian Chinese ethnicity; it is one of the three major component parties of the opposition coalition in Malaysia called the Barisan Nasional (BN) in Malay, or National Front in English.\n\nAlong with the largest and third largest component party in BN, i.e. United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) and Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC), MCA has a significant influence over the political arena in Malaysia. Through its holding of companies such as Huaren Holdings, MCA controls \"The Star\", which is Malaysia's best-selling English newspaper.\n\nThe party was once the largest party representing the Chinese community in Malaysia, and was particularly dominant in the early period until the late 1960s. Its fortunes fluctuated after the establishment of other political parties in the 1960s that challenged it for the Chinese votes, although it still enjoyed strong support in the mid-1990s to mid-2000s period. However, it has performed poorly in elections since 2008, with the Malaysian Chinese community mostly voting for the Democratic Action Party (DAP).\n\nThe Malayan Chinese Association (MCA) was formed on 27 February 1949 with the implicit support by the post-World War II British colonial administration. A central purpose of the MCA at the time of its founding was to manage the specific social and welfare concerns of the populations interned in the so-called New Villages created under the Briggs' Plan in response to the Malayan Emergency.\n\nThe declaration that announced the MCA as a formal political party in 1951 was written by a prominent Straits Chinese businessman, Tan Cheng Lock, its first president. In general, its early members were landowners, businessmen, or otherwise better off, while the working classes in the New Villages overwhelmingly joined the Socialist Front instead. Many prominent members of the MCA were also Kuomintang (KMT) members opposed to the Malayan Communist Party. Leong Yew Koh, was a KMT major general who became a cabinet minister and later became governor of Malacca; Malaysia's first minister of finance, Henry H.S. Lee, was a KMT colonel; and Lim Chong Eu, the leader of the Radical Party, and joined the MCA in 1952, was a colonel (medical) doctor in the Kuomintang.\n\nIn 1952, MCA joined force with United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) on a local level to contest the Kuala Lumpur municipal elections which would lead to the formation of the Alliance Party. The alliance was joined by Malaysian Indian Congress (MIC) in 1954 and they contested the first Malayan General Election in 1955 as one body, and the alliance won 51 of the 52 seat contested. MCA won all 15 of the seats allocated.\n\nTan Cheng Lock was succeeded by Lim Chong Eu after a successful challenge by Lim for the presidency in 1958. Lim attempted to amend the party's Constitution to consolidate the power of the Central Committee, and although amendment was passed narrowly, it also split the party. Prior to the 1959 General Election, Lim pressed for an increase of the allocated number of seats from 28 to 40, but this was refused by UMNO leader Tunku Abdul Rahman. Lim was forced to back down and later resigned as president, with Cheah Toon Lock taking over as acting president. Other members also resigned from MCA to contest the election as independent candidates, which cost the party some seats. The party only won 19 of the 31 seats eventually allocated. Lim himself left the party in December 1960, later becoming one of the founding members of the opposition Gerakan in 1968. In 1961 Tan Siew Sin, son of Tan Cheng Lock and favoured by Tunku, became MCA's third President. Tan led the party to a firm victory in the 1964 General Election, winning 27 of the 33 parliamentary seats contested. In 1969, Tan established Tunku Abdul Rahman College after a proposal for a Chinese-language university was turned down by the government.\n\nThe third Malaysian general elections were held on 10 May 1969. MCA faced strong challenges from the new, mainly Chinese, opposition parties Democratic Action Party (DAP) and Gerakan. Of the 33 parliamentary seats contested, MCA managed to retain only 13. MCA also lost control of the Penang State Government to Gerakan. The gain by the opposition parties led to tension between different communities which erupted into the May 13 Riots. Prior to the riots, on 12 May 1969, Tan Siew Sin announced that the party would withdraw from the Alliance, but reconsidered on 20 May and joined the National Operations Council formed in place of the suspended Parliament after the riots. The loss of support for MCA among the Chinese population elicited a comment by the then Deputy Prime Minister Dr Ismail that if MCA continue to lose support, UMNO may stop co-operating with it. To regain Chinese support, Tan attempted to broaden the appeal of the party previously seen as a party of the \"taukeh\" (\"\", rich men), and invited professionals to join the party. However, many of these were expelled after a dispute involving Lim Keng Yaik who then joined Gerakan.\n\nWith the loss of support for MCA in the 1969 election, and the enlargement of the Alliance party in 1972 (which later became Barisan Nasional) to include Gerakan, UMNO became even more dominant and MCA suffered a loss of status within the coalition. In 1973, Tan Siew Sin requested a position as Deputy Prime Minister in the cabinet reshuffle following the death of Tun Dr. Ismail, but this was refused by Tun Abdul Razak, which angered Tan. On 8 April 1974, prior to the general election, Tan Siew Sin resigned all of his party and government posts for health reasons.\n\nLee San Choon took over as Acting President following Tan's resignation, and was then elected President in 1975. After Tan's resignation, the cabinet posts allocated to MCA declined in importance, and MCA lost both the Finance Ministry and Trade and Industry Ministry posts it once held in 1957. The party performed better in the 1974 election, but lost ground again in the following 1978 general election, with the MCA winning only 17 of the 28 parliamentary seats and 44 of the 60 state seats. In 1979, Michael Chen stood against Lee San Choon for the MCA Presidency but lost, and later in 1981 led a group of MCA dissidents to join Gerakan.\n\nThe 1982 general election however saw a shift in fortune for MCA. Lee accepted a challenge from the opposition Democratic Action Party which taunted the MCA's leadership for not daring to contest a seat with large urban Chinese majority, and contested the parliamentary seat for Seremban against the incumbent DAP Chairman Chen Man Hin. Lee won his challenge, and led his party to a resounding victory, winning 24 out of 28 allocated parliamentary seats and 55 out of 62 state seats. After the success in the election and at the height of his career, Lee San Choon unexpectedly resigned his presidency and cabinet post for unspecified reason in 1983. Neo Yee Pan then led as Acting President until 1985.\n\nIn 1985, Tan Koon Swan, who was sacked from the party a year earlier, won the presidential election with the largest majority in the party's history. However, in the following year, he was charged with abetting criminal breach of trust relating to his private business dealings in Singapore, and resigned from the presidency. Koon Swan also originated the Deposit-Taking Cooperatives (DTCs), which sought to accumulate capital for Chinese Malaysians through investments. The mismanagement of the DTCs' funds led to a scandal, with the central bank, Bank Negara Malaysia, stepping in to freeze the assets of up to 35 DTCs. The total loss was estimated to be RM3.6 billion, and the depositors only recovered 62% of their deposits.\n\nKoon Swan was succeeded by his deputy Ling Liong Sik in 1986. He assumed the presidency when the party was still rife with factionalism and faced disillusionment with the Chinese community over the Deposit-Taking Cooperatives scandal. Ling spent his early years as president working to resolve MCA's financial problems, raising funds while restructuring the party's assets. Ling presided over a period of relative peace within the party, and worked to maintain the interests of the Chinese community through a closed-door approach within the government. He expanded the MCA-owned Tunku Abdul Rahman College through fund-raising and government contributions, and in 2001 set up Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman. Ling led MCA to its best electoral performance thus far in the 1995 general election, winning 30 of the 34 allocated parliamentary seats and 71 of the 77 state seats, and secured a majority of Chinese votes at the expense of DAP. MCA also performed well in the 1999 general elections, and the successive electoral victory boosted the party's standing within the Barisan Nasional coalition as well as Ling's personal relationship with BN leader and prime minister Mahathir Mohamad.\n\nInternal power however struggles persisted. In 1993 Ling's deputy Lee Kim Sai indicated that he would challenge Ling for the presidency, but withdrew at the eleventh hour. Lee eventually retired in 1996 and was replaced as deputy president by Lim Ah Lek. In 1999, the party was again wracked by factionalism. Deputy president Lim Ah Lek announced his intention to retire as a minister and agreed with Ling to nominate his protégé Chan Kong Choy to the Cabinet after the 1999 elections. However, Ling nominated his own protégé Ong Ka Ting as a minister at the expense of Chan, causing discontent with members aligned to Lim, which became known as \"Team B\" among party members. The Ling faction was known as \"Team A\". Tensions flared further after MCA, through its holding company Huaren, moved to acquire the independent daily \"Nanyang Siang Pau\". This was vehemently opposed by Team B, fearing a complete control of the Chinese media by Team A. They were joined by Chinese journalists and non-governmental organisations, who made their opposition public through demonstrations. The situation turned farcical when chairs were thrown during the 2001 Youth general assembly over the issue. Huaren eventually succeeded in taking over \"Nanyang Siang Pau\". Huaren also controls \"The Star\" and \"China Press\", and the domination of media press caused strong resentments in the divided party, with accusations by factions within MCA as well as outside opponents of editorial interference and claims of a threat to the freedom of the press in the country.\n\nMahathir, as BN leader, eventually stepped in to resolve the conflict, suggesting a \"peace plan\" among the factions. The scheduled 2002 party elections were cancelled, while Ling and Lim stepped down to be replaced by their respective protégés.\n\nIn May 2003, the leadership transition occurred as planned. Ong Ka Ting, who was then a vice-president succeeded Ling Liong Sik as president, while Chan Kong Choy succeeded Lim Ah Lek as deputy president. The Ong-led MCA contributed to Barisan Nasional's overwhelming victory in the 2004 general elections. MCA won 31 of the 40 parliamentary seats and 76 of the 90 state seats allocated. During the 2005 party elections, Teams A and B ran on a united front, easily quashing the challenge by vice-president Chua Jui Meng (for president) and secretary-general Ting Chew Peh (for deputy president).\n\nThe Ong-Chan leadership continued the soft approach to protecting the Chinese community's interests, although tension with UMNO over racial issues flared up now and again after the 2004 election. In early 2008, vice-president and Health Minister Chua Soi Lek, a prominent Johor member, was involved in a sex scandal. DVDs of Chua having sex with a woman were circulated in Johor, prompting Chua to resign all his political positions, including as Member of Parliament. Chua suggested that his political enemies within the party who might have felt threatened by him for plotting his downfall.\n\nIn the March 2008 general elections, MCA fared badly, winning only 15 parliamentary seats and 32 state seats, less than half the number of seats they won in the previous election. Ong decided not to contest the presidency during the party elections later that year, to allow a new leader to take over. The October 2008 party election marked a realignment of the party's factions, with the return of Chua Soi Lek to the fold. Ong Ka Ting's anointed successor was vice-president Ong Tee Keat. Meanwhile, Chua entered the race for deputy president, facing among others, Ong Ka Chuan, the elder brother of Ka Ting. Ong Tee Keat won the presidency comfortably, while Chua edged out Ka Chuan. Following his victory, Tee Keat pledged reform and reaching out to more young voters to revive the party.\n\nAfter the 2008 leadership change, factional infighting continued and the relationship between the Ong Tee Keat and Chua Soi Lek remained tense. Chua was sidelined by Ong from taking an active role in the party's leadership, and he was also excluded from government posts. He was then sacked by MCA in August 2009 for damaging the party's image with his sex scandal more than a year prior. In response, Chua's supporters forced an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) which passed a vote of no confidence against incumbent president Ong and annulled the expulsion of Chua. The EGM, however, failed to reinstate Chua as deputy president. Ong refused to resign despite the vote of no confidence, but pledged with Chua to set aside their differences under the \"greater unity plan.\" However, this was opposed by vice-president Liow Tiong Lai who demanded Ong step down and that new elections be held. This set in motion a new leadership crisis, which lasted almost six months.\n\nFinally in March 2010, Chua, along with his supporters in the central committee (CC) resigned. Along with the resignations of Liow's supporters in the CC, more than two-thirds of the CC had vacated their seats, paving the way for an election per the party constitution. The subsequent election saw Chua defeating incumbent Ong Tee Keat and former leader Ong Ka Ting in the race for president, while Liow defeated Kong Cho Ha in the contest for deputy president. Chua and his deputy Liow pledged to co-operate, and opened the party to non-Chinese.\n\nMCA's electoral performance meanwhile continued to deteriorate, as in the 2013 General Election, MCA only managed to score only 7 of the 37 parliamentary seats and 11 of the 90 state seats it contested, leading to calls for Chua's resignation. MCA's poor performance in the two elections, along with continued factionalism, raised concerns over the party's relevance in the Malaysian political arena. Also as a result of its poor performance, there was no MCA representation in the cabinet for the first time since independence due to a resolution that MCA would not accept cabinet posts if it performed badly in the general election.\n\nChua did not enter the following party poll for president, and in December 2013, Liow Tiong Lai was elected the president of MCA. Liow also reversed the resolution not to serve in the government and re-entered the cabinet in the aftermath of the MH370 incident.\n\nIn the 2018 election, MCA suffered its worst ever defeat, as it has lost all state seats it has contested, and only managed to retain one elected representative in the national parliament - Wee Ka Siong, who represents Ayer Hitam constituency in Johor. MCA, as part of the Barisan Nasional coalition, was also relegated to the opposition for the first time since independence. Party leader Liow decided not to stand for party polls after his defeat. Wee Ka Siong was elected President on 4 November 2018.\n\nIncumbent leadership of MCA was elected by general assembly delegates on 5 November 2018 in the Malaysian Chinese Association leadership election, 2018.\n25 Central Committee Members:\n\n\nMCA currently has only 1 MPs in the House of Representatives, with almost 95% (51 MPs) of them from UMNO.\n\nPerlis State Legislative Assembly\nPahang State Legislative Assembly\nKedah State Legislative Assembly\nKelantan State Legislative Assembly\n\nTerengganu State Legislative Assembly\nPenang State Legislative Assembly\nPerak State Legislative Assembly\n\nSelangor State Legislative Assembly\nNegeri Sembilan State Legislative Assembly\nMelaka State Legislative Assembly\n\nJohor State Legislative Assembly\nSabah State Legislative Assembly\nSarawak State Legislative Assembly\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47543216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47543216", "title": "Minority languages of Czech Republic", "text": "Minority languages of Czech Republic\n\nNeither the Constitution of Czech Republic nor any other Czech law contains any specific mention of an official or state language of the Czech Republic. German, Polish, Hungarian, Ukrainian, Romany, Slovak and Croatian are spoken in the Czech Republic, but only the first four are recognized as official minority languages.. Vietnamese is also an officially recognised language in the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic signed the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "4910617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4910617", "title": "National Audit Office (China)", "text": "National Audit Office (China)\n\nThe National Audit Office of the People's Republic of China (NAO) is the supreme audit institution in the People's Republic of China. It was established in 1983 according to the Constitution. It is a cabinet-level Department\nConstituting the State Council (国务院组成部门) and under the leadership of the Premier. \n\nThe Auditor-General is the head of the NAO.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40197728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40197728", "title": "New England Woman Suffrage Association", "text": "New England Woman Suffrage Association\n\nThe New England Woman Suffrage Association (NEWSA) was established in November 1868 to campaign for the right of women to vote in the U.S. Its principal leaders were Julia Ward Howe, its first president, and Lucy Stone, who later became president. It was active until 1920, when suffrage for women was secured by the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe NEWSA was formed during a period when a split was developing within the women's rights movement and also between one wing of that movement and the abolitionist movement. Disagreement was especially sharp over the proposal to enfranchise African American men before enfranchising women. The NEWSA, which accepted that approach, was organized partly to counter the activities of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who opposed it, insisting that women and black men should be enfranchised at the same time. The NEWSA also maintained close ties with the abolitionist movement and the Republican Party whereas Stanton and Anthony were working toward an independent women's movement.\n\nThe NEWSA was the first major political organization with women's suffrage as its goal.\nIt was formed on a regional basis several months before the establishment of two national women's suffrage organizations, the National Woman Suffrage Association and the American Woman Suffrage Association. The NEWSA played a key role in the formation of the latter and had overlapping leadership with it.\n\nThe New England Woman Suffrage Association (NEWSA) was formed during a period when a split was developing within the women's rights movement and also between one wing of that movement and the abolitionist movement. Disagreements had already weakened the American Equal Rights Association, which was formed in 1866 by women's rights advocates and abolitionists to campaign for equal rights, including suffrage, for all citizens regardless of race or sex.\nPriority had become an issue: should universal suffrage be the immediate goal, or should African American men be enfranchised first? After slavery was abolished in the U.S. in 1865, the American Anti-Slavery Society declared that its work would not be finished until African Americans were also guaranteed political equality.\nBy the time of the NEWSA's founding, hope for fulfillment of that goal was embodied in a proposed Fifteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would prohibit the denial of suffrage because of race. Because it would not also prohibit the denial of suffrage because of sex, however, it became a focal point for discord within the women's movement.\n\nSome members of the women's movement, such as Abby Kelley Foster, supported the amendment because they believed that suffrage for African American males was a more pressing need than suffrage for women.\nOthers, such as Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, opposed any amendment that would in effect enfranchise all men while excluding all women, believing it would create an \"aristocracy of sex\" by giving constitutional authority to the idea that men were superior to women.\nLucy Stone, who played a leading role in the NEWSA, argued that suffrage for women was more important than suffrage for black men but also supported the Fifteenth Amendment.\n\nThe split also involved different assessments of the ruling Republican Party.\nMany leading women's suffragists had been introduced to social activism through the anti-slavery movement and felt loyalty to both that movement and to the Republican Party, which had provided political leadership for the abolition of slavery in the U.S. and was still in the difficult process of consolidating that victory.\nAfter the uncomfortably close elections of 1868, Republican leaders recognized the importance of enfranchising African American men, most of whom were recently freed slaves, as a way of helping to preserve the victory over slaveholders during the American Civil War (1861–1865).\nThey and their abolitionist allies increasingly viewed women's suffrage as an objective that, even if successful, would not produce comparable political benefits, and they considered the campaign for it to be a drain on resources that were needed elsewhere.\n\nWomen's rights activists generally had been strong supporters of the abolitionist movement and had also depended heavily on its resources. Those who distanced themselves from abolitionist and Republican leadership during this period, however, found themselves increasingly cut off from abolitionist resources and sometimes the target of outright hostility from Republicans.\nStanton, Anthony and their allies felt betrayed and began to criticize the Republican Party and some of the abolitionist leadership.\nOlympia Brown, an ally who played a role in the NEWSA's creation, criticized abolitionist leaders by name and said, \"We must look for our support to new men\".\nStanton and Anthony greatly inflamed feelings by accepting help from George Francis Train, a supporter of women's rights who was also a wealthy Democrat and an outspoken racist.\nOther women's suffrage activists, however, continued to support the abolitionist leadership and the Republican Party to varying degrees.\n\nOlympia Brown, who had recently become one of the first ordained woman ministers,\ninitiated the proposal for a New England women's suffrage organization.\nShe hoped to create an association that would limit its activity to a campaign for women's suffrage, believing that campaigning for suffrage for both women and African Americans, as the American Equal Rights Association had done, would cause women's suffrage to be overshadowed. She sought to create an organization that would, in her own words, campaign on a \"clear-cut, separate and single question.\"\n\nOn the advice of Abby Kelley Foster, she announced a meeting in Boston in May 1868 to discuss her proposal and succeeded in gathering a hall full of people.\nThe meeting established a planning committee chaired by Caroline Severance.\nBrown found herself and her single-issue approach sidelined by the planners of the new organization.\nSeeking to counter the initiatives of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, the committee launched an organization that supported suffrage for both blacks and women and was willing for black men to achieve suffrage first.\n\nIn addition to Brown and Severance, key figures in the planning for the new organization included Abby Kelley Foster, her husband Stephen Symonds Foster, and Thomas Wentworth Higginson, all of whom had been important figures in the abolitionist movement. Lucy Stone, a pioneering worker for women's rights who later became a leading figure in the new organization, had not yet moved to Boston from New Jersey and was not deeply involved in its planning.\nShe attended the founding convention, however and was elected to the new organization's executive committee.\n\nThe New England Woman Suffrage Association (NEWSA) was formed on November 19, 1868, during the second and last day of a regional women's rights convention in Boston, Massachusetts, where the new organization was to be headquartered.\nInstead of distancing itself from the Republican Party, as Anthony and Stanton were doing, the planners for the NEWSA convention worked to attract Republican support and seated leading Republican politicians, including a U.S. senator, on the speaker's platform.\n\nAt the time of the NEWSA convention, Congress was considering the proposed Fifteenth Amendment, which would prohibit the denial of suffrage because of race but would not, as many women suffragists had hoped, also prohibit the denial of suffrage because of sex. (The amendment was approved by Congress in February 1869 and ratified by the states in 1870.) At the convention, Francis Bird, one of the most powerful politicians in Massachusetts, said, \"Negro suffrage, being a paramount question, would have to be settled before woman suffrage could receive the attention it deserved.\"\n\nAmid increasing confidence that the Fifteenth Amendment was assured of passage, Lucy Stone, a future president of the NEWSA, showed her preference for enfranchising both women and black men by unexpectedly introducing a resolution calling for the Republican Party to \"drop its watchword of 'Manhood Suffrage'\"\nand support universal suffrage instead. Despite opposition by Frederick Douglass, William Lloyd Garrison and Frances Harper, Stone convinced the meeting to approve the resolution.\nTwo months later, however, when the Fifteenth Amendment was in danger of becoming stalled in Congress, Stone backed away from that position and declared that \"Woman must wait for the Negro.\"\n\nThe NEWSA supported the Fifteenth Amendment, believing that achieving suffrage for all men would be a step toward suffrage for women.\nThe wing of the women's movement associated with the NEWSA expected the Republican Party to push for women's suffrage after the Fifteenth Amendment was ratified (an expectation that was not realized). \nJulia Ward Howe, author of \"The Battle Hymn of the Republic,\" was elected as the NEWSA's first president. A member of a prominent family, she had recently been convinced to join the women's suffrage movement by Higginson and Stone.\nDuring the convention, Howe said she would not demand suffrage for women until it was achieved for blacks.\n\nState affiliates of the NEWSA were formed in most New England states. \nIn January 1869, supporters of the NEWSA began publishing a newspaper called the \"Woman's Advocate\" from the office of the American Anti-Slavery Society.\n\nAlthough the NEWSA waited until suffrage for blacks was assured before it began campaigning for women's suffrage at the national level, it pressed at an early stage for laws that would enfranchise women in the District of Columbia and the federal territories. \nAnother of its early initiatives was the collection of 8000 signatures on petitions to the Massachusetts legislature in 1869 in support of women's suffrage in that state, which led to the practice of annual public hearings on that question in the state legislature. \nThe NEWSA's work in subsequent years included fund-raising bazaars, lectures, petitions and legislative hearings.\n\nThe split in the women's movement was formalized in May 1869 when Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton created the National Woman Suffrage Association to represent their wing.\nThe executive committee of the NEWSA responded by laying the groundwork for a rival organization called the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA), which was founded in November 1869.\nHenry Ward Beecher, a prominent minister, agreed to become the first president of the AWSA, but NEWSA leaders Lucy Stone and Julia Ward Howe played key roles both in the formation of the AWSA and in its leadership in subsequent years.\n\nJulia Ward Howe served as president of the NEWSA until 1877. Lucy Stone was elected president that year and served until her death in 1893. Howe was again elected president in 1893 and served until her death in 1910.\nAlice Stone Blackwell, Lucy Stone's daughter, was president from 1911 until the organization ceased to exist in 1920. When the Nineteenth Amendment, which secured suffrage for women, was ratified in 1920, the NEWSA simply ceased to function rather than formally dissolving.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7896615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7896615", "title": "No More War Movement", "text": "No More War Movement\n\nThe No More War Movement was the name of two pacifist organisations, one in the United Kingdom\nand one in New Zealand.\n\nThe British No More War Movement (NMWM) was founded in 1921 as a pacifist and socialist successor to the No-Conscription Fellowship. For the first two years of its existence, it was known as the No More War International Movement. It became the British section of War Resisters International. Chaired by Fenner Brockway, it asked members to strive for revolutionary socialism but not to take part in any war. Other notable NMWM members included Wilfred Wellock, Leslie Paul, A. Barratt Brown, Leyton Richards, W. J. Chamberlain and Monica Whately. The movement also received messages of support from several international figures, including Albert Einstein. In 1926, a member proposed the creation of a white poppy, in the manner of the British Legion's red poppies, but with the added meaning of a hope for an end to all wars. The group did not pursue the idea, but it was later taken up by the Women's Co-operative Guild. At its peak, the NMWM numbered around 3000 members, many from the Independent Labour Party. In 1929, several prominent British intellectuals signed a statement, \"Why I Believe in the No More War Movement\", supporting the NMWM's aims. The group published two journals: \"The New World\" and \"No More War\".\n\nAfter Brockway resigned in 1929, and secretaries Walter Ayles and Lucy Cox left in 1932, the group foundered. Reginald Reynolds, a Quaker influenced by Gandhi, became general secretary, but he could not stop a drift of members to the communist British Anti-War Movement and the New Commonwealth Society. Anarchists became increasingly prominent, but most left after the Movement, in accordance with its pacifist principles, refused to support the fighting of either side in the Spanish Civil War. In 1937 the organisation formally merged with the Peace Pledge Union, although the Midlands Council of the NMWM retained an independent existence for a year or so.\n\nThe New Zealand NMWM was founded in the 1920s by Fred Page (d. 1926). It strived to influence public opinion in New Zealand through petitions and public discussion. By the late 1930s it was losing influence to two other New Zealand pacifist bodies: the New Zealand branch of the Peace Pledge Union, and Archibald Barrington and Ormond Burton's Christian Pacifist Society of New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "297987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297987", "title": "Pronoia", "text": "Pronoia\n\nThe pronoia (plural pronoiai; Greek: πρόνοια, meaning \"care\" or \"forethought\") was a system of granting dedicated streams of state income to individuals and institutions in the late Eastern Roman Empire. Beginning in the 11th century and continuing until the empire's conquest in the 15th century, the system differed in significant ways from European feudalism of the same period.\n\nA \"pronoia\" was a grant that temporarily transferred imperial fiscal rights to an individual or institution. These rights were most commonly taxes or incomes from cultivated lands, but they could also be other income streams such as water and fishing rights, customs collection, etc. and the various rights to a specific piece of geography could be granted to separate individuals. Grants were for a set period, usually lifetime, and revokable at will by the Emperor. When institutions, usually monasteries, received grants they were effectively in perpetuity since the institutions were ongoing. Grants were not transferable or (excluding certain exceptional cases late in the institution) hereditary; a \"pronoia\" gave the grantee possession, not ownership, which remained Imperial.\n\nThe limits and specifics of a \"pronoia\" was recorded in an Imperial document called \"praktika\" (\"records\"); holders of \"pronoia\" (the grantees, in other words) were called \"pronoiarios\", and those working the income stream in question (for instance, farmers on the land) were called \"paroikoi\" in the documents. The word \"pronoia\" could refer to the grant itself (land, for instance), its monetary value, or the income it produced.\n\nAlthough \"pronoia\" were often used to reward military service or other loyalties, they carried no specific military obligation (in contrast to feudal fiefs), although the threat of revocation provided coercive power for the state.\n\nBy the 11th century, Roman aristocrats had ceased to hold any significant power. Honorific titles and power were granted by the emperor and competition was fierce; the most desired grants were those that involved governance and tax collecting in various pieces of the Empire. By the reign of Constantine IX in the middle part of the century they had also begun to assert sovereignty over various parts of the empire, collecting taxes for themselves and often plotting rebellions against the emperor.\n\nIn the late 11th century Alexius I attempted to reform the aristocracy, taking the pacifying measure of distributing Roman territory amongst its members. Doing so had the added benefit of removing them from Constantinople, making it harder for them to directly challenge the emperor's authority. Most pronoiai granted by Alexius, however, were to members of his own (Comnenus) family. Alexius simply legitimized the holding of land by aristocrats, and brought it under centralized state control.\n\nAlexius' grandson Manuel I Comnenus continued to grant land to the aristocrats, but also extended pronoiai to aristocratic officers in the army, in place of giving them a regular salary. Pronoiai developed into essentially a license to tax the citizens who lived within the boundaries of the grant (the paroikoi). Pronoiars (those who had been granted a pronoia) became something like tax collectors, who were allowed to keep some of the revenue they collected. This idea was not completely new; centuries before, Heraclius had reorganized the empire's land into military districts called Themata. Under this system, military officers (strategoi) ran each district and collected rent from the peasants who farmed the land. However, the paroikoi, under either the Thema or pronoia system, were not serfs as peasants were in the feudal system of western Europe. They owed no particular loyalty or service to the strategos or pronoiar, as in both cases the emperor was still the legal owner of the land. The pronoiar was most likely not even a native of the land he had been granted.\n\nThe size and value of the pronoia, the number of paroikoi, and the duties owed by them were recorded in praktika. A pronoiar would likely be able to collect trade revenue and part of the crop harvested on the land, and could also hold hunting rights and transportation rights. A praktika also recorded the duties owed by the pronoiar to the emperor. If necessary, the emperor could request military service, although the pronoiar could not force his taxpayers to join him. Pronoiars were often reluctant to give military service if he lived a prosperous life on his grant, and they had some autonomy if they chose not to serve. If they could gain the support of their taxpayers, they could lead rebellions against the empire, but these were not as dangerous as rebellions in the capital, which Alexius' system could now more successfully avoid. Neither Alexius, Manuel, or the other 12th century emperors seemed to worry about provincial rebellions, seemingly assuming that a pronoia grant would eventually appease a rebellious noble. During the Fourth Crusade, Alexius IV still thought this way, and granted Crete to Boniface of Montferrat, under the assumption that the Crusaders would go away if their leader had some land.\n\nAfter the Crusaders captured Constantinople in 1204, the pronoia system continued in the Empire of Nicaea, where the emperors ruled in exile. John III Ducas Vatatzes also gave pronoiai to the church and noblewomen, which had not been done before. When Constantinople was recaptured by Michael VIII Palaeologus in 1261, he allowed pronoiai to be inherited, which made the empire more like the feudal states in Europe. He also audited the pronoiai to make their values more realistic according to contemporary conditions, as the empire had lost much of its land and revenue since the 11th century. Under the Palaeologans, pronoiars could more easily be organized into military units if the emperor required their service. The emperor could also confiscate the revenues for whatever reason. Andronicus II Palaeologus, for example, used the money raised by the pronoiars to finance military expeditions against the Bulgarians, but he did not require them to provide military service themselves. During this time pronoiars could also attract followers by giving them pronoia grants of their own.\n\nRecruiting pronoiars to form an army helped unite the remnants of the empire after 1261. However, there were by this time only a few thousand pronoiars, and although they paid for their own expenses, the emperors could not afford a full army or navy to strengthen the empire's defenses. The impoverished empire had very little tax revenue, and pronoiars began to extract rents from the paroikoi, turning back to the old Thema system.\n\nThe empire continued to lose land to the Ottoman Empire, and Constantinople was finally lost in 1453, but the Ottomans continued to use their own version of the pronoia system, called the timar system, which they had borrowed from the Eastern Romans during their conquests.\n\n"}
{"id": "55948665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55948665", "title": "Rinnovu", "text": "Rinnovu\n\nRinnovu Naziunale () is a separatist political party active in Corsica.\n\nRinnovu was a member of Corsica Libera between 2008 and 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "1050922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1050922", "title": "Sciences Po", "text": "Sciences Po\n\nThe Paris Institute of Political Studies (, ), commonly referred to as Sciences Po (), is a prestigious and influential academic institution in the social sciences in France (legally a \"grande école\"). It was founded in 1872 to promote a new class of French politicians in the aftermath of the French defeat in the Franco-Prussian War of 1871, and remains the primary institution of higher learning for French political and administrative elite.\n\nSciences Po Alumni include 32 heads of state or government, 7 of the past 8 French Presidents, 3 past heads of the International Monetary Fund, heads of international organizations (including the UN, WTO, IMF and ECB), and six of the CAC 40 CEOs. The school has also educated numerous intellectual and cultural figures, such as Marcel Proust, René Rémond, Paul Claudel, and Raymond Aron. In 2018, it was ranked as the world's 4th best school for politics and international relations. \n\nSciences Po undertook an ambitious reform agenda starting in the mid-1990s, which broadened its focus to prepare students for the private sector, put an emphasis on the internationalization of the school's curriculum and student body, and established a special admission process for underprivileged applicants. It also expanded outside Paris by establishing additional campuses in Dijon, Le Havre, Menton, Nancy, Poitiers, and Reims. The institution is a member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs and the Global Public Policy Network. \n\nSciences Po was established in February 1872 as the \"École Libre des Sciences Politiques\" by a group of French intellectuals, politicians and businessmen led by Émile Boutmy, and including Hippolyte Taine, Ernest Renan, Albert Sorel and Paul Leroy Beaulieu. Following defeat in the 1870 war, the demise of Napoleon III, and the Paris Commune, these men sought to reform the training of French politicians. Politically and economically, people feared France's international stature was waning due to inadequate teaching of its political and diplomatic corps. ELSP was meant to serve as \"the breeding ground where nearly all the major, non-technical state commissioners were trained.\"\n\nNew disciplines such as International Relations, International Law, Political Economy and Comparative Government were introduced. In August 1894, the British Association for the Advancement of Science spoke out for the need to advance the study of politics along the lines of ELSP. Sidney and Beatrice Webb used the purpose and curriculum of Sciences Po as part of their inspiration for creating the London School of Economics in 1895.\n\nELSP proved very successful at preparing candidates for entry into senior civil service posts, and acquired an image as a major feature of France’s political system. From 1901 to 1935, 92.5% of entrants to the Grands Corps de l'État, which comprises the most powerful and prestigious administrative bodies in the French civil service, had studied there (this figure includes people who took civil service examination preparatory classes at Sciences Po but did not earn a degree).\n\nSciences Po underwent significant reforms in the aftermath of France's liberation from Nazi occupation in 1945. The humiliation of France's surrender to Nazi Germany and moreover the collapse of the Vichy regime provided the impetus for a major restructuring of the state's institutions.\n\nCharles de Gaulle, as leader of France's Provisional Government, appointed Michel Debré to overhaul of the recruiting and training of public servants. Though eight of thirteen ministers in De Gaulle's government were Sciences Po alumni, the university had also been instrumental in training the class of leaders whom many accused of having given in to Nazi aggression. Communist politicians including Georges Cogniot proposed abolishing the ELSP entirely and founding a new state-run administration college on its premises.\n\nDebré proposed the compromise that was eventually adopted. First, the government established the Ecole Nationale d'Administration (ENA), an elite postgraduate college for training government officials. From then on, the Grands Corps de l'Etat were obliged to recruit new entrants exclusively from the ENA's graduates. In 1945, the École libre des sciences politiques was restructured into two separate legal entities: the Institut d'études politiques (IEP) and the Fondation nationale des sciences politiques (FNSP). Though legally a public institution, it was to be managed by a private trust, the newly-established \"Fondation Nationale des Sciences Politiques\" () or FNSP, with Roger Seydoux as its first president. Though the appointment of high-ranking faculty members now required government approval, the FNSP allowed Sciences Po to retain considerable administrative autonomy. Both entities were tasked by the French government to ensure \"the progress and the diffusion, both within and outside France, of political science, economics, and sociology\".\n\nThe epithet \"Sciences Po\" was applied to both entities, which inherited the reputation previously vested in \"ELSP\". France's Legislature entrusted \"FNSP\" with managing \"IEP Paris\", its library, and budget, and an administrative council assured the development of these activities. The curriculum and methodology of the \"ELSP\" were also the template for creating a network of institutes of political studies throughout the country, namely in Strasbourg, Lyon, Aix, Bordeaux, Grenoble, Toulouse, and then in Rennes and Lille. They are not to be confused with the seven campuses of Sciences Po in France.\n\nIt was now the ENA rather than Sciences Po that fed graduates directly into senior civil service posts. However, Sciences Po became the university of choice for those hoping to enter the ENA, and so retained its dominant place in educating high-ranking officials.\n\nBetween 1952 and 1969, 77.5% of the ENA’s graduate student intake were Sciences Po alumni.\n\n\"FNSP\" further strengthened its role as a scientific publication center with significant donations from the Rockefeller Foundation. \"FNSP\" periodicals such as \"la Revue française de science politique\", \"le Bulletin analytique de documentation\", \"la Chronologie politique africaine\", and the \"Cahiers de la Fondation\" as well as its seven research centres and main publishing house, \"Presses de Sciences Po\", consolidated the university's reputation as a research hub.\n\nSciences Po underwent various reforms under the directorship of Richard Descoings (1997–2012). In these years, Sciences Po introduced a compulsory year abroad component to its undergraduate degree, and began to offer a multilingual curriculum in French, English, and other languages. It was during this period that Sciences Po added its regional campuses.\n\nSciences Po also implemented reforms in its admissions process. Previously, Sciences Po recruited its students exclusively on the basis of a competitive examination. This system was seen to favor students from prestigious preparatory high schools or those who could afford year-long preparatory courses. In 2001, Science Po founded the Equal Opportunity Program governing council widened its admissions policy. This program enables the institution to recruit high-potential students at partner high schools in France who, due to a social and financial constraints, would not otherwise have applied to Sciences Po. This process has been accused of being superficial and being in fact a \"lotto for poor people\".\n\nFrom 2001 to 2011, the proportion of scholarship students at Sciences Po went from 6 percent to 27 percent.\n\nDescoings was accused of \"reigning as almighty master on his school, by distributing material advantages and \"small envelopes\", and setting up a clientelist and authoritarian \"carrot system\"\" and to implement a \"management of fear\".\n\nFrédéric Mion, a graduate of Sciences Po, ENA and École Normale Supérieure and former secretary general of Canal+, was appointed president of Sciences Po on 1 March 2013. His intention to pursue Sciences Po's development as a \"selective university of international standing\" is detailed in the policy paper \"Sciences Po 2022\", published in the spring of 2014. The restructuring of Master's study into graduate schools continued with the creation of the School of Public Affairs and the Urban School in 2015 and the School of Management and Innovation in 2016.\n\nIn early 2016, Sciences Po updated its governance structure, adopting new statutes for its two constituent bodies: the \"Fondation nationale des sciences politiques\" (FNSP) and the \"Institut d'études politiques de Paris\" (IEP). This reform is \"the most significant since 1945\" and clarifies Sciences Po's governance with new rules, which address observations made by the Cour de comptes in a 2012 report.\n\nIn late 2016, Sciences Po acquired a new site, the Hôtel de l'Artillerie in the 6th arrondissement of Paris, which it intends to make the new heart of its urban campus and a seat of \"educational renewal\". In April 2018, Sciences Po students peacefully blocked the main entrance to the school in protest against Macron's education reforms which, while giving public Universities the power to set admission criteria and rank applicants, may violate the principle of free education for all. While Sciences Po is not affected by this legislation by virtue of it being a private University, students stood in solidarity with protestors at public Universities. \n\nSciences Po has seven campuses in France.\n\nThe Paris campus hosts undergraduate students enrolled in the general curriculum programme, the dual bachelor's degree with UCL as well as all seven graduate schools. The Paris campus is spread across several buildings concentrated around the Boulevard Saint-Germain in the 6th and 7th arrondissements (districts). The historic centre of Sciences Po at 27 rue Saint-Guillaume houses the head office and central library since 1879. It is also home to Sciences Po's two largest teaching halls, the Amphitheatres Émile Boutmy and Jacques Chapsal. Other buildings include:\n\nIn 2016 Sciences Po purchased the Hôtel de l’Artillerie, a 17th-century former monastery located 200 meters from its campus on Rue St.Guillaume. The building was previously the property of the French Ministry of Defense and is 14,000 m in size. The university has announced its intention to refurbish the building as a major addition to its facilities in Paris. It is estimated that this project will cost around 200 million euros in total.\n\nThe Hôtel de l’Artillerie will house new facilities for Sciences Po’s graduate programs, including a courtroom for the Law School and a newsroom for the Journalism School. It will also incorporate a cafeteria, study areas and accommodation for 50 to 100 students on scholarships.\n\nFrédéric Mion, the director of Sciences Po, stated his intention to create a campus comparable in quality and capacity to Sciences Po’s most prominent international partner universities such as Columbia University, the London School of Economics and Hong Kong University.\n\nWork will begin at the site in 2018. It is scheduled to open in 2021.\n\nLocated in the region of Burgundy in a magnificent 19th century building, the Dijon campus was created in 2001.\n\nLocated on the coast of Normandy, Le Havre has hosted the undergraduate Euro-Asian campus since 2007, recently celebrating the 10 year anniversary of the campus in September 2017. With a choice between a history, law, or economics major, students primarily choose to spend their third year abroad in an Asian country. Furthermore, Le Havre is home to six Dual Degree programs, and welcomes international students from over thirty countries from all around the world.\n\nEstablished in the French Riviera city of Menton in 2005, the campus is located in an entirely renovated 19th century building overlooking the Mediterranean. Menton is home to the Middle Eastern and Mediterranean focus branch of Sciences Po. Students study in one of two tracks (anglophone/francophone) and must take one of three core Oriental languages (Arabic, Farsi, or Turkish) in order to graduate. The third mandatory year abroad is spent in the Middle East (with the exception of derogation and/or national origin, or participation in a dual degree program).\n\nEstablished in the region of Lorraine in 2000, the Nancy campus is located in a prestigious 18th century heritage site, the Hôtel des Missions Royales.\n\nOpened in 2010, the campus is located in the heart of the historic city of Poitiers in the Hôtel Chaboureau, a renovated building dating from the 15th century.\n\nIn the heart of the Champagne region, the Reims campus opened in September 2010. It is housed in the 17th century \"College des Jesuits\". It is by far the largest of the regional campuses of Sciences Po, hosting both the Europe-North America program and the Europe-Africa Program as well as an exchange program. In addition to the traditional undergraduate programs, the Reims campus is also host to several dual degree programs, including ones with Columbia University and the University of California, Berkeley. As of the beginning of the academic year in 2018, there were roughly 1500 students enrolled across all three programs.\n\nIn the fall of 2017, a brand new section of the campus, complete with a new cafeteria and amphitheater was opened to accommodate even more students.\n\nThe academic bodies of Sciences Po consist of the University College, six professional schools, and the Doctoral School. The university also contains a library system, the Presses de Sciences-Po, and holds ties with a number of independent academic institutions, including Columbia University, King's College London, the National University of Singapore, and the Sorbonne Paris Cité alliance.\n\nThe Sciences Po Undergraduate College offers a three-year Bachelor of Arts degree with a multidisciplinary foundation in the humanities and social sciences with emphasis on civic, linguistic, artistic, and digital training.\n\nOn all campuses, students choose a multidisciplinary major - Politics & Government, Economies & Societies, or Political Humanities. In addition, each campus offers a different regional concentration that anchors students intellectual objectives : Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, Middle East-Mediterranean, and North America.\n\nSciences Po offers dual bachelor's degrees with Columbia University, Keio University, University College London, Freie Universität Berlin, University of British Columbia, the University of Sydney, the National University of Singapore, the University of Hong Kong, University of California Berkeley.\n\nAt the graduate level, Sciences Po's seven schools offer one- and two-year Master's programmes and PhD programmes. All graduate programmes are delivered on the Sciences Po campus in Paris. Sciences Po also hosts dual Master's programmes with international partners. Students enrolled in these dual degree programmes spend one year at Sciences Po in Paris and one year at the partner university.\n\nThe University College (\"Collège universitaire\") is the home of all undergraduate students. At the graduate level, there are six professional schools:\n\nThe Doctoral School offers Master and PhD programmes in law, economics, history, political science, or sociology. The PhD programme contains roughly 600 doctoral candidates.\n\nResearch at Sciences Po covers economics, law, history, sociology and political science, while also taking in many interdisciplinary topics such as cities, political ecology, sustainable development, socio-economics and globalization.\n\nSciences Po is home to a research community that includes over 200 researchers and 350 PhD candidates. In 2015, 32% of the university’s budget was devoted to research. That year, 65% of its research publications were in French, 32% in English and 3% in other languages.\n\nThe university has numerous research centers, seven of which are affiliated with France’s National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS).\n\n\nIn addition to these research units, the university has recently established three major research programs – the LIEPP, DIME-SHS and MaxPo.\n\n\nSciences Po is part of a network of 470 universities, including:Berkeley (US), Bocconi (Italy), Cambridge (England), Colegio de Mexico (Mexico), Columbia (US), Freie Universität Berlin (Germany), Fudan (China), Keio (Japan), the London School of Economics (England), McGill (Canada), National University of Singapore, Oxford (England), Peking University (China), Princeton (US) University of Cape Town (South Africa), and University of São Paulo (Brazil).\n\nIn 2002, it co-founded the Alliance program in partnership with Columbia University, École Polytechnique and Panthéon-Sorbonne University. Each year, this program facilitates dual degrees, exchanges and research projects for around 240 students and 80 professors, and organizes around 40 conferences in Paris and New York. In France it is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Education Ministry, the Regional Council of the Île-de-France and by private sponsors including the utility company EDF.\n\nIn 2005, it established a doctoral/post-doctoral partnership program with the University of Oxford to provide a platform for comparative analysis of political systems and societies. OxPo, as this program is now known, facilitates academic and student exchanges between the two universities, provides grants for research collaborations, and organizes joint workshops, graduate conferences and seminars.\n\nIt has a research partnership with Princeton University, providing research grants to encourage collaborative research and teaching initiatives.\n\nSciences Po co-founded the Global Public Policy Network in 2005 in co-operation with the London School of Economics and the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University. The network provides dual degree programs that allow students to study at two institutions. It has since expanded to include the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin, the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore, the Graduate School of Public Policy at the University of Tokyo and the Fundção Getúlio Vargas (FGV) at the Escola de Administração de Empresas in Brazil.\n\nSciences Po is a member of the Sorbonne Paris Cité association.\n\nFounded in 1871, the nucleus of the school’s research is \"Bibliothèque de Sciences Po\". The library offers a collection of more than 950,000 titles in the field of social sciences.\n\nIn 1982, the Ministry of National Education made the \"Bibliothèque\" the Centre for Acquisition and Dissemination of Scientific and Technical Information in the field of political science, and since 1994, it has been the antenna associated with \"Bibliothèque Nationale de France\". \"Bibliothèque de Sciences Po\" is also the main French partner in the International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, which is based at the London School of Economics.\n\nFounded in the 1950s, \"Presses de Sciences-Po\" is the publishing house of Sciences Po. It publishes academic works related to the social sciences.\n\nSciences Po organizes numerous public lecture events. Recent guest speakers have included Ban Ki-moon, General David Petraeus, Condoleezza Rice, former President of Brazil Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, Eric Schmidt, Joseph Stiglitz, Sheryl Sandberg, Mario Draghi, UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova and Harvard University professor Michael Sandel.\n\nSince 2007 it has organized the Franco-British Dialogue Lecture Series in collaboration with the LSE and the French Embassy in London. The lectures are held every term at the LSE’s European Institute.\n\nFor 2016–2017 the QS World University Rankings, based on English speaking publications, ranked Sciences Po 4th in the world for Politics & International Studies (1st in France), 51–100 in Law (2nd in France), 51–100 in Economics & Econometrics (1st in France), 51–100 in Social Policy & Management (1st in France), 51–100 (2nd in France) in History, 62nd in Social Sciences & Management (3rd in France), and 44th in Sociology (1st in France). Overall, it ranked 220 in the world (7th in France). Times Higher Education ranked Sciences Po 50th in the world for social sciences (1st in France) for 2018. Foreign Policy magazine ranked Sciences Po 21st in the world to obtain a master's degree for a policy career in International Relations in 2015 (3rd in Europe). In the 2013 Times Higher Education Alma Mater Index of Global Executives, a ranking of an academic institution's number of degrees awarded to chief executives of the world's biggest companies, Sciences Po is ranked 81st.\n\nDue to its prominent alumni, its selectivity and its history of providing candidates for admission to the École nationale d'administration, Sciences Po is seen in France and abroad as an elite institution. However, it was criticised, as well as the École nationale d'administration, for creating in France an oligarchy of disconnected with reality, '...blinkered, arrogant and frequently incompetent people.' Sciences Po is now recognized for its efforts to promote social inclusion in higher education. Central to Sciences Po's policy to diversify its student body is the Equal Opportunity Programme, launched in 2001. The rate of scholarship holders among Sciences Po students has increased four-fold over the past ten years, with 27% of students now receiving scholarships or need-based financial aid.\n\nThe institution is partly state-funded, and some have accused it of receiving a disproportionate share of public money. In 2012, a joint statement from Sciences Po Lille students representatives called Sciences Po (Paris) the \"coronation of inegalitary State\".\n\nCritics have accused Sciences Po of prioritizing access to professional networks over education and expertise. As a result, the school is often nicknamed \"Sciences Pipeau\" (pronounced and sometimes spelled \"Sciences Pipo\", \"pipeau\" meaning \"scam\" in colloquial French). This nickname has also been employed by students. The sociologist Nicolas Jounin, alumnus of Sciences Po, stated that the school is an \"intellectual imposture\" and a \"financial hold-up\". The academic Gilles Devers criticized the institution for being the \"base of the conservatism, and the mold of the molluscs that make the public elite\" where \"dissenting ideas are only admitted if they strengthen the system\". The journalist at France Culture Guillaume Erner stated that the institution is \"only advertisement and artifice\".\n\nSciences Po has also been accused of being unduly helped by the media. \"Almost every French newspaper is run by an almunus of Sciences Po\", and most of the journalists in France are alumni from Science Po, so it would give the school \"a mediatic cover without equivalent\" and permit it to \"cultivate a culture of secrecy\" about its internal affairs. \"Sciences-Po is under-criticized,\" analyzes a professor. Former students are unlikely to criticize it. \"Those who teach there have no interest, and not necessarily the urge, to do so. Those who are not there can hope to be there one day.\" The journalist Ariane Chemin stated in 2013 that, because so many journalists come from Sciences Po, the school has an undue good public reputation.\n\nAlain Lancelot, director of Sciences Po from 1987 to 1996, was investigated for financial mismanagement by the French Court of Audit.\n\nSince 1997, the institution has been hit by a number of scandals, notably concerning the leadership of Richard Descoings, its director from 1997 to 2012.\n\nDescoing, president from 1997 to 2012, had been criticized for offering large sums of money (through salary rise, free accommodation, etc.) to diverse members of staff, included his wife, in spite of the fact that Sciences Po is partly stately funded.\n\nIn February 2012, it was revealed that an inspector of the French Court of Audit, in charge of investigating the financial behaviour of Sciences Po, was at the same time employed by Sciences Po.\n\nOn 3 April 2012, Descoings was found dead in his Manhattan luxury hotel room during a trip to represent Sciences Po in New York. The police initially concluded that his death had been caused by an overdose, but the final coronary report eventually stated that he died a natural death. Descoings' energy on this last day and the missing phones and computer have raised questions as to the precise circumstances of his death.\n\nIn October 2012, the Court of Audit reprimanded Sciences Po for financial mismanagement, accusing it of opaque remuneration procedures, unwarranted expenses claims and excessive pay-rises for managers. The Court noted that the university’s complex legal status – a public university managed by a private trust – had contributed to dysfunction and waste. It also criticized the French government for increasing state funding for the university without insisting on additional public oversight. Sciences Po has also been accused to prevail results over morals.\n\nIn November 2012, Hervé Crès has been dismissed by the government, but he sought to president of Sciences Po anyway, saying that Alain Lancelot and Richard Descoings have been found guilty too, but it doesn’t matter for what concerns the presidency of Sciences Po.\n\nIn July 2015, Jean-Claude Casanova, the former president of the Foundation Nationale des Sciences Politiques, the private trust which manages Sciences Po, was fined €1500 for failing to properly consult the Foundation’s Administrative Council over budgeting decisions involving public money. The Court of Financial and Budgetary Discipline eventually found Casanova guilty, but sentenced him with leniency because the procedures had some part of regularity and because it wasn’t customary in Sciences Po to follow all the financial rules.\n\nIn February 2016, the Court of Audit noted that reforms had been made but stated that greater transparency was still needed. Frédéric Mion, director of Sciences Po since 2013, defended the university’s record and asked the judges to write their report again.\n\nOver 65,000 people have studied at Sciences Po. Alumni and former staff include twenty-eight heads of state or government, including seven of the last eight French presidents (Emmanuel Macron, François Hollande, Nicolas Sarkozy (although he didn't graduate), Jacques Chirac, François Mitterrand, Alain Poher (though he served only as an interim president), and Georges Pompidou), thirteen past or present French prime ministers, twelve past or present foreign heads of state or government, a former United Nations Secretary-General, the former head of the International Monetary Fund, the former head of the European Central Bank and the former head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Former Portuguese Prime Minister, José Socrates, studied at Sciences Po as a doctoral student in 2012.\n\nAmong the alumni are CEOs of France's forty largest companies (Frédéric Oudéa of banking group Societe Generale, Michel Bon of Carrefour, Jean-Cyril Spinetta of Air France, Serge Weinberg of PPR, Gérard Mestrallet of Suez, Philippe Camus of Alcatel-Lucent), private bankers such as David René de Rothschild, the CEO of Lazard Italy, the CFO of Morgan Stanley Europe, the Director of Credit Suisse World, Co-founder, Chairman and CEO of TradingScreen and the Chairman of Credit Suisse Europe as well as the current head of the European Federation of Businesses, Industries and Employers and the current head of the French Businesses and Employers Union and many others. Influential cultural figures such as the writer Marcel Proust and the founder of the modern olympics Pierre de Coubertin also graduated from Sciences Po.\n\nSenior French diplomats including François Delattre (currently French ambassador to the UN), Gérard Araud (currently ambassador to the USA), Sylvie Bermann (currently ambassador to Russia), Bernard Émié (currently ambassador to Algeria), Jean-Maurice Ripert (currently ambassador to Russia) and Maurice Gourdault-Montagne (currently ambassador to China) are also alumni.\n\nSciences Po is known for recruiting many former or current professionals to give lessons, allowing students to benefit from practitionners and their unique insights on current issues. Many high ranking civil servants give lectures after their daily job, at the beginning of the evening. \nInstructors included or still include former French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin, former WTO president Pascal Lamy, former French President Francois Hollande, former French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, former French foreign minister Hubert Védrine, noted historian Pierre Milza, Nobel Prize Laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz and former Economics minister as well as former Managing Director of IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn. The philosopher, anthropologist and sociologist Bruno Latour has taught there since 2006. Emmanuel Gaillard also teaches at the Law School.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24129665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24129665", "title": "Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values", "text": "Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values\n\nThe Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values\nis an independent national campaigning organisation that advocates radical reform of Scotland's system of taxation. Known as The Scottish League, the organisation advances the programme of the nineteenth-century American social reformer Henry George. The League publishes books and other material, and is a participant in the ongoing public debate over the future of Scotland’s land and tax system.\n\nThe Scottish League was constituted in 1890, emerging out of the complex reorganisation that year of the Scottish Land Restoration League. It campaigned vigorously during the public and parliamentary debate surrounding the Land Values (Scotland) Bill at the turn of the twentieth century. That Bill was initiated at the League’s request, and intended to be prototype UK legislation. Viscount Ridley, speaking in the House of Lords in 1908 (before the reforming 1911 Parliament Act), at the second reading of the ill-starred Bill, claimed that:Behind this Bill is the Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values, and the real support that the Bill gets is from gentlemen who think it would be to the advantage of this country to tax all land values out of existence... I ask your Lordships to reject the Bill because I believe it to be unfair, incomplete, and impracticable, and that no amount of amendment or modification could affect the principle of the Bill... It is begotten by fanatical societies out of an ignorant Government; it stands...unsound and vicious.\n\nThe Bill was \"passed by the House of Commons by a great majority in 1907, but was rejected by the Lords\".\n\nThe Scottish League was also firmly engaged in the legislative process surrounding the 1931 Finance Bill, which it came to repudiate. Sir John Simon, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and future Chancellor of the Exchequer, addressed the Commons: Let us consider whether after three weeks of existence this Bill is in a very happy condition…. We must not suppose that the cursing comes only from the critics, who might be thought to be naturally opposed to this system of taxation. I hold in my hand a communication from the Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values. I read it with interest, because we know that if one could look anywhere for the pure milk of the word on this subject it would be to the Scottish League for the Taxation of Land Values. This is what it says: \"The present proposals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer will penalise the landowners who are putting their land to the best possible use just as much as it punishes the owners who are holding land idle, or making a partial use of it. This in itself condemns the present proposals, and marks the scheme as a political stunt “.\n\nThe Scottish League has been actively involved in Glasgow City Council’s 2009 initiative to reform local taxation on the basis of land values.\n\nThe Scottish League was one-time proprietor (1904–1907) of the modern periodical \"Land&Liberty\", published then under the title \"Land Values\".\n"}
{"id": "10753032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10753032", "title": "Shopped", "text": "Shopped\n\nShopped: The Shocking Power Of British Supermarkets is a book by British author and investigative journalist Joanna Blythman first published by Fourth Estate in 2004. Described by one reviewer as \"an emotive and bitter attack on [Britain's] supermarket culture\" the book examines the way supermarkets have changed \"diets, cities, countryside and economy\" in Britain and argues that consumers have unwittingly \"surrendered control over what [they] eat to a few powerful chains.\" Along with Felicity Lawrence's \"Not On The Label\" (2004) and Colin Tudge's \"So Shall We Reap\" (2003), \"Shopped\" was seen by some critics as representing the frontline of the emerging, radical Slow Food movement in Europe. The book helped establish Blythman's reputation as \"one of the most influential commentators\" on British supermarkets. It was the winner of the Best Food Book prize at the 2005 Glenfiddich Food and Drink Awards and was shortlisted for the 2005 Guild of Food Writers' Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "18591829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18591829", "title": "Society Against Violence in Education", "text": "Society Against Violence in Education\n\nSociety Against Violence in Education (SAVE) is a non profit organization working for the eradication of ragging and Bullying from educational institutions in India.\n\nMajor field(s) : \nSAVE is possibly the first-registered Anti Ragging NGO in India.\n\nIt is mainly composed of professionals and students from various fields who volunteer for the cause over and above their regular jobs/studies.\n\nRagging has been taking a huge toll of innocent lives and careers for long. But there had been no single civil movement against the evil of ragging. There were websites and online groups, from where some conscientious youths gave birth to a non profit organisation, which later came to fame in the name of the \"No Ragging Foundation\". Later, the No Ragging Foundation was registered as the Society Against Violence in Education (SAVE).\n\nAmit Sahai Gangwar, a first year student of NIT-Jalandhar lost his life in October 2005. The news was covered by various media - news channels and dailies. This event had a great impact in the formation of this organization.\n\nThe Society Against Violence in Education (SAVE) is an impartial, neutral and independent, non-profit organization whose exclusively humanitarian mission is to protect the lives and dignity of students in educational institutions and to provide the victims of 'ragging' with assistance and also to facilitate the eradication of ragging from educational institutions through awareness, advocacy, research and such other avenues.\n\nIt works towards the creation of an environment where students can learn with fun and not with fear. It directs its efforts towards elimination of violence and abuses on innocent freshers while promoting peace and harmony among the senior and the juniors students in academic institutions.\n\nCreate a strong public mandate against ragging.\n\nDevice alternative but healthy and humane modes of interaction between seniors & juniors.\n\nUnite the isolated protests against ragging under the umbrella of a strong, united movement.\n\nInvolve the authorities, faculties, students and others in the anti ragging drives.\n\nThey spread the awareness against ragging and provide support to the victims. They also promote healthy and humane modes of interactions between the seniors and the juniors. They promote anti-ragging campus units, involving students, class and faculty members.\n\nSAVE has been arranging awareness events, mainly in educational institutions in different parts of India, involving students, faculty members and other stakeholders. Such events serve to empower and encourage the freshers (potential victims) as well as to promote healthy modes of interactions. The events are used to guide institutional authorities, if required, on effectively implementing anti ragging measures in the campus. Faculties and students have admired such events to be very useful for the cause.\n\nSAVE has arranged events in different parts of the country, for example : Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kanpur, Varanasi, Ajmer, Hyderabad, Dehradun, Surat, Pune, Haldia, Durgapur, Howrah, etc.\n\nSAVE has sent thousands of communications to colleges as well.\n\nFor about a decade, SAVE has been supporting the victims of ragging and/or their families in various ways. SAVE volunteers have supported victims in getting their grievances heard. They have played active roles in creating pressure on colleges to take actions and have provided legal and other guidance and assistance to the victims and their families. SAVE keeps in touch with the National (UGC) Anti Ragging Helpline and with its monitoring agency.\n\nSAVE has filed numerous applications under the Right to Information Act, 2005 with institutions as well as statutory bodies. SAVE legal team, led by advocate Mrs. Meera Kaura Patel , has even represented victims in the court and before the National Human Rights Commission of India.\n\nIn a case involving the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, following the directions from the hon'ble court, the police had booked the Dean, Director and Registrar were charged charged under IPC Sections 336, 337, 338 (negligence), 120B (conspiracy), 201 (tampering with evidence), 202, 176 (failing to inform a public authority) and 511 (attempting to commit offence).\n\nIn another case, from Thanjavur, SAVE Legal Team had requested the hon'ble Chief Justice of Tamil Nadu to take suo motu cognizance of the matter. 5 engineering students were arrested later.\n\nIn some cases, SAVE has collaborated with the friends and family members of 'victims', who had lost their lives in 'ragging', to arrange memorial events and to demand proper investigation into the cases.The events were clubbed with signature campaigns seeking a comprehensive national anti ragging legislation.\n\nIn many cases, the colleges have taken actions based on SAVE's recommendations. Some Colleges have been proactively invited SAVE to address their students and faculties. Several colleges have invited SAVE to be part of their anti ragging committee, however it was not possible for SAVE to accept all such offers, considering its limitations, e.g., financial limitations.\n\n\n\nSAVE is registered with the department of Income tax in India u/s 12AA . Donations to the Society Against Violence in Education qualify for Tax exemption u/s 80G(5)(vi) .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51315793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51315793", "title": "Tea Importation Act of 1897", "text": "Tea Importation Act of 1897\n\nTea Importation Act of 1897 was a United States public law forbidding the import of tea into the United States with excessive levels of fluoride, heavy metals, oxalate, and pesticides. The Act of Congress established a uniform standard of purity and quality while attempting to achieve the optimal health effects of tea and phenolic content in tea. The statute declared it unlawful to import into the United States \"any merchandise as tea which is inferior in purity, quality, and fitness for consumption to the standards kept at customhouses...\" For nearly a century, Congress provided that no imported tea could enter the United States unless federal tea-tasters decided that it measured up to preselected standard samples. The law restricted the International trade of camellia sinensis.\n\nThe 1897 statute superseded the Spurious Tea Importation Act of 1883.\n\nThe act was on the books for 99 years before its repeal in 1996. After repeal, the Food and Drug Administration still regulates the quality of tea imported to the United States under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of 1938.\n\nThe United States statute had twelve sections and authorized the United States Secretary of the Treasury to implement the law. \n\nAs codified just before its repeal, the Act instructed the Secretary of Health and Human Services each year \"to appoint a board, to consist of seven members, each of whom shall be an expert in teas, and who shall prepare and submit to him standard samples of tea.\" In accordance with the board of experts' recommendations, the Secretary was instructed to \"fix and establish uniform standards of purity, quality, and fitness for consumption of all kinds of teas imported unto the United States\" and to deposit samples of these standards in the customhouses of various ports of entry. Tea importers were required to submit samples of their product for comparison with the standard samples kept at the customhouses. The imported samples were then tested \"by a duly qualified examiner,\" who would test \"the purity, quality, and fitness for consumption of the... [imported tea samples] according to the usages and customs of the tea trade, including the testing of an infusion of the same in boiling water and, if necessary, chemical analysis.\"\n\nThe Board of Tea Appeals was a United States federal agency under the jurisdiction of the Food and Drug Administration. From its establishment in 1897 until its abolishment in 1996, it adjudicated the claims of tea importers whose products were denied entry into the United States by federal tea-tasters. The Board was authorized to permit delivery or order destruction or exportation of substandard teas.\n\nThe Tea Importation Act of 1908 amended the 1897 public law permitting the import of tea siftings, tea sweepings, or tea waste for the extraction of caffeine or theine, and other chemical products. The 1897 Act was repealed with the United States 104th Congressional session enactment of the Federal Tea Tasters Repeal Act of 1996.\n\nThe twelve sections of the original act:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31662698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31662698", "title": "The Imperial Cruise", "text": "The Imperial Cruise\n\nThe Imperial Cruise is a non-fiction book authored by James Bradley. In the book Bradley examines American policy in the Pacific during the presidency of Theodore Roosevelt, and a surrounding a secret diplomatic/Congressional mission to Asia conceived by Roosevelt which would affect United States involvement in Asia. The material also covers a wide array of other cultural factors that loosely relate to this, the largest diplomatic delegation ever sent to Asia in U.S. history. The book asserts that Roosevelt's diplomatic mistakes constituted the original encouragement for the Japanese imperialism that ultimately backfired on the United States and led to the war in the Pacific, and acted as a catalyst in the fomentation of many subsequent events in Asia, including the Chinese Communist Revolution, the Korean War, and even the current state of U.S.-Asia affairs today in the 21st century. In support of the book's themes, Bradley presents evidence in the form of Roosevelt's personal letters and pictures. Nevertheless, the book's historical accuracy has proved controversial, with some historians, specialists and reviewers pointing out Bradley's methods as faulty. \n\nThe book centers on the diplomatic mission of the sent by President Theodore Roosevelt in the summer of 1905. On board was the largest diplomatic mission delegation in U.S. history, including some of the highest profile political figures of the time. They included Secretary of War (and future President) William Howard Taft; Roosevelt's daughter, Alice Roosevelt; her future husband, Congressman (and later Speaker of the House) Nicholas Longworth; along with 29 other members of the House and Senate, and their wives; and an array of additional high-ranking military and civilian officials.\n\nAfter his initial description and introduction of the \"SS Manchuria's\" voyage, the author explores brief excerpts of the history behind the period's American domestic and foreign policy, elaborating on its influence, motivation, and consequences, specifically in regard to American-Japanese, Sino-Japanese, and Russo-Japanese relations.\n\nMore broadly, Bradley explores his contention relating to how deep-set WASP biases and racially deterministic philosophies fueled and undergirded virtually all U.S. foreign and domestic policy-making in that era pertaining to U.S. relations with other nations and to populations of other racial, cultural or religious heritages. This included virtually all peoples of non-Teutonic Anglo-Saxon descent, and resulted, for example, in the slaughter of more than 250,000 Filipinos during the U.S. colonial take-over of the Philippines.\n\nIt is Bradley's contention that the actions of one Roosevelt, and the diplomatic cruise in the summer of 1905, lit that fuse that would doom more than 100,000 U.S. military to die in the Pacific theater decades later under another Roosevelt in the 1940s. Through what Bradley describes as their \"bumbling diplomacy\", he describes how Teddy Roosevelt and his emissary Taft turned previously friendly Japanese sentiment, against the United States.\n\n\"The Imperial Cruise\" has received mixed reviews. Writing for \"The New York Times\" Review of Books, Janet Maslin noted that \"\"The Imperial Cruise\" is startling enough to reshape conventional wisdom about Roosevelt's presidency\". At the same time, she criticized the author, which favors \"broad strokes and may at times be overly eager to connect historical dots,but he also produces graphic, shocking evidence of the attitudes that his book describes.\"\n\n\"USA Today\" was neutral, calling it useful for readers who think that history \"is the story of good guys and bad guys\", and expressing disappointment with the \"relentlessly sarcastic\" tone and lack of ambiguity. Chiefly, \"USA Today\" noted an unresolved historical issue at the heart of Bradley's thesis, which argues that Japan was inspired by the visit of the U.S. delegation to pursue imperialistic expansion in 1905, when Japan had no such ambitions. Bradley's book argues that it was the American delegation's seminal influence that both inspired Japanese imperialistic adventurism, including eventually and ironically, their attack on Pearl Harbor, and also continuing tensions between the United States and Asian nations. While Bradley argues that \"The U.S. Army had brought the Aryan to the Pacific coast\", \"USA Today\" cited his failure to explain how \"in the 1930s, imperial Japan would act on the secret words of a man dead for more than a decade and out of office since 1909.\"\n\nScholars such as M. Patrick Cullinane of Northumbria University rejects Bradley's main themes as extreme exaggerations based on misinterpretations. He says the treatment of Roosevelt is \"grossly unfair\" and Bradley ignores the Asian role in the multiple catastrophes blamed on Roosevelt.\n\nProfessor William N. Tilchin of Boston University attacks \"Bradley's stupendously faulty analysis, \"The Imperial Cruise\" is a profoundly ignorant book even on the basic level of undisputed objective facts.\" He writes:\n\nCurrently, \"The Imperial Cruise\" holds a 3.55/5 rating on LibraryThing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8386887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8386887", "title": "Turkish courts-martial of 1919–1920", "text": "Turkish courts-martial of 1919–1920\n\nTurkish courts-martial of 1919–20 were courts-martial of the Ottoman Empire that occurred soon after the Armistice of Mudros, in the aftermath of World War I. The leadership of the Committee of Union and Progress and selected former officials were charged with several charges including subversion of the constitution, wartime profiteering, and the massacres of both Armenians and Greeks. The court reached a verdict which sentenced the organizers of the massacres, Talat, Enver, Cemal and others to death.\n\nSince there were no international laws in place under which they could be tried, the men who orchestrated the genocide escaped prosecution and traveled relatively freely throughout Germany, Italy, and Central Asia. This led to the formation of Operation Nemesis, a covert operation conducted by Armenians during which Ottoman political and military figures who fled prosecution were assassinated for their role in the Armenian Genocide.\n\nThe Turkish courts-martial were forced to shut down during the resurgence of the Turkish National Movement under Mustafa Kemal. Those who remained serving their sentences were ultimately pardoned under the newly established Kemalist government on 31 March 1923.\n\nFollowing the reportage by US Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire Henry Morgenthau, Sr. of the Armenian resistance during the Armenian Genocide at the city of Van, the Triple Entente formally warned the Ottoman Empire on 24 May 1915 that:\n\nIn the months leading up to the end of World War I, the Ottoman Empire had undergone major restructuring. In July of that 1918, Sultan Mehmed V died and was succeeded by his half-brother Mehmed VI. The Ministers of the Committee of Union and Progress, including the Three Pashas who ran the Ottoman Government between 1913 and 1918, had resigned from office and fled the country soon afterwards. Successful Allied offensives in Salonika posed a direct threat to the Ottoman capital of Constantinople. Sultan Mehmed VI appointed Ahmed Izzet Pasha to the position of Grand Vizier and tasked him with the assignment of seeking an armistice with the Allied Powers and ending Ottoman involvement in the war.\n\nOn 30 October 1918, an armistice was signed between the Ottomans, represented by the Minister of the Navy Rauf Orbay, and the Allies, represented by British Admiral Sir Somerset Gough-Calthorpe. The armistice essentially ended Ottoman participation in the war and required the Empire's forces to stand down although there still remained approximately one million soldiers in the field and small scale fighting continued in the frontier provinces into November 1918.\n\nIn November 1918, Britain appointed Admiral Sir Somerset Gough-Calthorpe as High Commissioner and Rear-Admiral Richard Webb as Assistant High Commissioner in Constantinople. A French brigade later entered Constantinople on November 12, 1918, and the British Troops first entered the city on November 13, 1918. Early on December in 1918, Allied troops occupied sections of Constantinople and set up a military administration.\n\nThe US Secretary of State Robert Lansing summoned the representatives of the Ottoman Empire, Sultan Mehmed VI and Grand Vizier Damat Ferid Pasha (a founding member of the Freedom and Accord Party or \"Liberal Union Party\"). The Paris Peace Conference established \"The Commission on Responsibilities and Sanctions\" in January 1919.\n\nOn January 2, 1919, Gough-Calthorpe requested from the Foreign Office authority to obtain the arrest and handing over of all those responsible for the incessant breaches of the terms of the Armistice and the continued ill-treatment of Armenians. Calthorpe got together a staff of dedicated assistants, including a notable anti-Turkish Irishman, Andrew Ryan, later Sir, who in 1951 published his memoirs. In his new role as the chief Dragoman of the British High Commission and Second Political Officer, he found himself in charge of the \"Armenian question\". He proved instrumental in the arrest of a large number of the (later to be) Malta deportees. These fell broadly into three categories: Those still breaching the terms of the armistice, those who had allegedly ill-treated Allied prisoners-of-war and those responsible for excesses against Armenians, in Turkey itself and the Caucasus. Calthorpe asked for a personal interview with Reshid Pasha, Ottoman Minister of Foreign Affairs, to impress on him how Britain viewed the Armenian affair and the ill-treatment of POWs as \"most important\" deserving \"the utmost attention\". Two days later Calthorpe formally requested the arrest of seven leaders of the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP). While between 160 and 200 people were arrested, another 60 suspected of participating in the massacre of Armenians remained at large.\n\nThe courts-martial were established on April 28, 1919 while the Paris Peace Conference, 1919 was ongoing. An inquiry commission was established, called the \"Mazhar Inquiry Commission\", which was invested with extraordinary powers of subpoena, arrest, et cetera, through which the war criminals were summoned to trial. This organization secured Ottoman documents from many provinces of the Ottoman Empire. Sultan Mehmet VI and Grand Vizier Damat Ferid Pasha, as representatives of the Ottoman Empire during the Second Constitutional Era were summoned to the Paris Peace Conference. On 11 July 1919, Damat Ferid Pasha officially confessed to massacres against the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire and was a key figure and initiator of the war crime trials held directly after World War I to condemn to death the chief perpetrators of the genocide.\n\nThe Ottoman Government in Constantinople (represented by Damat Ferid Pasha), foisted the blame on a few members of the Committee of Union and Progress and long-time rivals of his own Freedom and Accord Party, which would ensure that the Ottoman Empire received a more lenient treatment during the Paris Peace Conference. The trials helped the party (also called the \"Liberal Union party\") root out the Committee of Union and Progress from the political arena. On 23 July 1919, during the Erzurum Congress, General Kâzım Karabekir was issued a direct order from the Sultanate to place Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and Rauf Orbay under arrest and assume Kemal's position as Inspector-General of the Eastern Provinces. He defied the government in Constantinople and refused to carry out the arrest.\n\nAt that time Turkey had two competing governments in Constantinople and Ankara. The government in Constantinople supported the Turkish trials with more or less seriousness depending on the current government. While Grand Vizier Damat Ferid Pasha (4 March - 2 October 1919 and again 5 April - 21 October 1920) stood behind the prosecuting body, the government of Grand Vizier Ali Riza Pasha (2 October 1919 – 2 March 1920) barely made a mention of the legal proceedings against the war criminals. The trials had also blurred the crime of participation in the Turkish National Movement with the crime of the Armenian Genocide, and ultimately resulted in increasing support for the government in Ankara that would be led later on by Atatürk.\n\nThe court sat for nearly a year, from April 1919 through March 1920, although it became clear after just a few months that the tribunal was simply going through the motions. The judges had condemned the first set of defendants (Enver, et al.) when they were safely out of the country, but the Tribunal, despite making a great show of its efforts, had no intention of returning convictions. Admiral Sir Somerset Gough-Calthorpe protested to the Sublime Porte, took the trials out of Turkish hands, and removed the proceedings to Malta. There an attempt was made to seat an international tribunal, but the Turks bungled the investigations and mishandled the documentary evidence so that nothing of their work could be used by the international court.\n\nAccording to European Court of Human Rights judge Giovanni Bonello, 'quite likely the British found the continental inquisitorial system of penal procedure used in Turkey \"repugnant\" to its own paths to criminal justice and doubted the propriety of relying on it'. Or, possibly, the Turkish government never came round to hand over the incriminating documents used by the military courts. Whatever the reason, with the advent of power of Ataturk, all the documents on which the Turkish military courts had based their trials and convictions, were ‘lost’. Admiral John de Robeck replaced Admiral Gough-Calthorpe on August 5, 1919 as \"Commander in Chief, Mediterranean, and High Commissioner, at Constantinople\". In August 1920, the proceedings were halted, and Admiral John de Robeck informed London of the futility of continuing the tribunal with the remark: \"Its findings cannot be held of any account at all.\" \n\nAn investigative committee started by Hasan Mazhar was immediately tasked to gather evidence and testimonies, with a special effort to obtain inquiries on civil servants implicated in massacres committed against Armenians. According to genocide scholar Vahakn Dadrian, the Commission worked in accordance with sections 47, 75 and 87 of the Ottoman Code of Criminal Procedure. It had extensive investigative powers, because it was not only limited to conduct legal proceedings and search for and seize documents, but also to arrest and imprison suspects with assistance from the Criminal Investigation Department, and other State services. In a course of three months, the committee managed to gather 130 documents and files pertaining to the massacres, and had them transferred to the courts-martial.\n\nOn July 5, 1919, the court reached a verdict which sentenced the organizers of the massacres, Talat, Enver, Cemal and others to death. The military court found that it was the intent of the CUP to eliminate the Armenians physically, via its Special Organization. The pronouncement reads as follows:\n\nThe Court Martial taking into consideration the above-named crimes declares, unanimously, the culpability as principal factors of these crimes the fugitives Talaat Pasha, former Grand Vizir, Enver Efendi, former War Minister, struck off the register of the Imperial Army, Cemal Efendi, former Navy Minister, struck off too from the Imperial Army, and Dr. Nazim Efendi, former Minister of Education, members of the General Council of the Union & Progress, representing the moral person of that party; ... the Court Martial pronounces, in accordance with said stipulations of the Law the death penalty against Talaat, Enver, Cemal, and Dr. Nazim.\n\nThe courts-martial officially disbanded the CUP and confiscated its assets and the assets of those found guilty. Two of the three Pashas who fled were later assassinated by Armenian vigilantes during Operation Nemesis.\n\nOttoman military members and high-ranking politicians convicted by the Turkish courts-martial were transferred from Constantinople prisons to the Crown Colony of Malta on board of the SS \"Princess Ena\" and the SS HMS \"Benbow\" by the British forces, starting in 1919. Admiral Sir Somerset Gough-Calthorpe was in charge of the operation, together with Lord Curzon; they did so owing to the lack of transparency of the Turkish courts-martial. They were held there for three years, while searches were made of archives in Constantinople, London, Paris and Washington to find a way to put them in trial. However, the war criminals were eventually released without trial and returned to Constantinople in 1921, in exchange for 22 British prisoners of war held by the government in Ankara, including a relative of Lord Curzon. The government in Ankara was opposed to political power of the government in Constantinople. They are often mentioned as the \"Malta exiles\" in some sources.\n\nAccording to European Court of Human Rights judge Giovanni Bonello the suspension of prosecutions, the repatriation and release of Turkish detainees was amongst others a result of the lack of an appropriate legal framework with supranational jurisdiction, because following World War I no international norms for regulating war crimes existed, due to a legal vacuum in international law; therefore contrary to Turkish sources, no trials were ever held in Malta. He mentions that the release of the Turkish detainees was accomplished in exchange for 22 British prisoners held by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.\n\nAt the Armenian Revolutionary Federation's 9th General Congress, which convened in Yerevan from September 27, to the end of October 1919, the issue of retribution against those personally responsible for organizing the Genocide was on the agenda. A task force, led by Shahan Natalie, working with Grigor Merjanov, was established to assassinate Talaat Pasha, Javanshir Khan, Said Halim Pasha, Behaeddin Shakir Bey, Jemal Azmi, Cemal Pasha, Enver Pasha, as well as several Armenian collaborationists, in an secret operation codenamed Operation Nemesis.\n\nA WikiLeaks cable classified and signed by David Arnett on July 4, 2004 at the Consulate General of the US in Istanbul states the following:\n\n\"According to Sabanci University Professor Halil Berktay, there were two serious efforts to purge the archives of any incriminating documents on the Armenian question. The first took place in 1918, presumably before the Allied forces occupied Istanbul. Berktay and others point to testimony in the 1919 Turkish Military Tribunals indicating that important documents had been \"stolen\" from the archives. Berktay believes a second purge was executed in conjunction with Ozal's efforts to open the archives by a group of retired diplomats and generals led by former Ambassador Muharrem Nuri Birgi.\"\nAccording to the cable, ambassador Muharrem Nuri Birgi was effectively in charge of destroying evidence during the 1980s. During the process of eliminating the evidence, ambassador Birgi stated in reference to the Armenians: \"We really slaughtered them.\" Others, such as Tony Greenwood, the Director of the American Research Institute in Turkey, confirmed that a select group of retired military personnel were \"going through\" the archives. However, it was noted by a certain Turkish scholar that the examination was merely an effort to purge documents found in the archives.\n\nThere is a controversy by revisionist sources about the translations into Western language (mostly English and German) of the verdicts and accounts published in newspapers. Gilles Veinstein, a professor of Ottoman and Turkish history at Collège de France estimates that the translation made by former Armenian historian Haigazn Kazarian is \"highly tendentious, in several locations\". Turkish historians Erman Şahin and Ferudun Ata accuse Taner Akçam of mistranslations and inaccurate summaries, including the rewriting of important sentences and the addition of things not included in the original version.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54293938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54293938", "title": "Uganda Intelligence Department", "text": "Uganda Intelligence Department\n\nThe Uganda Intelligence Department (UID) was an organisation mobilised at short notice by the colonial government in the Uganda Protectorate at the start of World War 1. The National Archives 'British Army medal index cards 1914–1920 records list at least 20 people affiliated with the UID; although all those listed below may not have been serving concurrently as mobilisation dates on medal cards do vary.\n\nThe officers of the UID came from a number of backgrounds, some were farmers, some army officers from British and colonial regiments, some colonial civil servants and some were businessmen. The following European officers were affiliated with the unit and their ranks and individual Medal Record numbers are also listed (each Medal Record makes reference to the Uganda Intelligence Department, along with other units associated with the officer):\n\n\nThe African soldiers known to be on the Uganda Intelligence Department's establishment were:\n\nThere is (as yet) no record of the roles of the African soldiers posted to the Department. However, the presence of a tribal chief indicates they were political influencers and collectors of intelligence.\n\nThe British Army medal index cards record that the Uganda Intelligence Department personnel were active from 1914 to as late as 1921. The same index cards and medal auction descriptions point to UID personnel being awarded the 1914–15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal.\n"}
{"id": "7302800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7302800", "title": "VSKhSON", "text": "VSKhSON\n\nThe All-Russian Social-Christian Union for the Liberation of the People (), commonly known by the acronym VSKhSON (ВСХСОН), was an underground anti-Soviet organization operated in the Soviet Union between 1964 and 1967. The Union was founded by Leningrad State University alumni in February 1964, and counted 28 members and 30 candidates.\n\nVSKhSON ideology was named \"Social Christianity\" and has its roots in the Third Position, that neither communism nor capitalism. It was aimed to project of Christian ethics on a reformed social and economical structure of Soviet society. In order to achieve that goal, it was supposed to create the Supreme Council with the right to veto any government initiative, which should consist of one-third of members of the highest Russian Orthodox hierarchy, and two-third of life \"outstanding representatives of the nation\", while the head of the proposed \"Christian state\" should be elected by the Supreme Council, then approved by the public vote.\n\nVSKhSON members stood for \"the abolition of Soviet totalitarianism\" and the resurrection of a \"healthy balance between the individual, society, and government\", and the resurrection of the individual (versus Soviet collectivism). As compared to other secret youth organizations of the 1960s–early 1970s, the bylaws of VSKhSON had stated that every member of the organization \"is not only a propagandist and organizer, but a soldier\". In many ways the organization can be compared to the white émigré National Alliance of Russian Solidarists.\n\nIn February 1967, after being denounced by an informant, the organization was designated as terrorist by the KGB. Twenty one of the organization's members were put on trial and received long terms of internment. Co-founder Igor Ogurtsov was sentenced to seven years of imprisonment, eight years of labor camps and five years of exile. After returning to Russia in 1992 from exile in Germany, Ogurtsov continued a life of political activism.\n\nThe organization's founders, Igor Ogurtsov, Yevgeny Vagin, Mikhail Sado and Boris Averichkin, have not been rehabilitated. The Presidium of the Supreme Court of Russia affirmed the validity of the guilty verdict and sentence of VSKhSON members on 20 November 1996.\n"}
{"id": "26046669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26046669", "title": "Vasile Lupu High School Group", "text": "Vasile Lupu High School Group\n\nVasile Lupu High School Group (Romanian:\"Grupul Liceul \"Vasile Lupu\"\") was one of the first organized anti-Soviet groups in Bessarabia in the wake of its occupation by the Soviet Union on June 28, 1940.\n\nIt was formed by the students and some teachers of the Vasile Lupu high school in Orhei, which was renamed by the Soviets a \"Pedagogical School\".\n\nAfter a series of small actions, such as writing anti-Soviets slogans on public walls (\"Death to the Stalinist occupiers!\", \"Go home, barbarians!\", \"Down with the executioner Stalin! Bessarabia to Bessarabians!\", \"Long live Romanian nation!\"), and spread of anti-Soviet manifestos, they did an extrodinary achievement: during the Christmas night 1940, they took down the Soviet red flags, and put up Romanian flags on top of several buildings in Orhei, including the city hall, the Communist Party of Romania building, the NKVD headquarters. In January 1941, NKVD managed to crack into the organization and arrest most of its members. The sentence was pronounced on June 24, 1941.\n\nMost of them were executed in Chişinău on June 27, 1941, according to a report of the Odessa Military Tribunal, signed Axelrod. Other members:\n\nThe investigation was led by G. Goldberg, chief of the Orhei County Section of NKVD, and was conducted by Konopekin, chief investigator, Terebilo, deputy, Cherepanov, Malinin, Morev, Nikitovich, Plotnikov, and Toporov, investigators.\n\n"}
{"id": "20647982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20647982", "title": "Wog", "text": "Wog\n\nWog is a slang word in the idiom of Australian English and British English. In the UK, it is usually employed as an ethnic or racial slur, and considered derogatory and offensive. In Australia, it may be used as a slur, but to some extent has been reclaimed and is used as a self-descriptor.\n\nIn British English, \"wog\" is an offensive racial slur usually applied to Afro-Caribbean, African, Middle Eastern, South Asian or Southeast Asian peoples. In Australian English, \"wog\" is a term used as a racial slur mostly for people from Southern Europe and the Mediterranean region in general (Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, Greek), including the Mediterranean region of the Middle East (i.e., the Eastern Mediterranean or the Levant and North Africa: Jews and Arabs) as well as Eastern Europe.\n\nThe origin of the term is unclear. It was first noted by lexicographer F.C. Bowen in 1929, in his \"Sea Slang: a dictionary of the old-timers’ expressions and epithets\", where he defines wogs as \"lower class Babu shipping clerks on the Indian coast.\" Many dictionaries say \"wog\" derives from the golliwogg, a blackface minstrel doll character from a children's book, \"The Adventures of Two Dutch Dolls and a Golliwogg\" by Florence Kate Upton, published in 1895; or from \"pollywog\", a dialect term for tadpole that is used in maritime circles to indicate someone who has not crossed the equator.\n\nSuggestions that the word is an acronym for \"wily Oriental gentleman\", \"working on government service\", or similar, are examples of false etymology.\n\n\"Wog\", in the UK, is a derogatory and racially offensive slang word referring to a non-white, Jewish, or darker-skinned white person, including people from the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, other parts of Asia such as the East Indies, or the Mediterranean area, including Southern Europeans.\n\nThe saying, \"The wogs begin at Calais\" (implying that everyone who is not British is a wog), appears to date from the First World War but was popularised by George Wigg, Labour MP for Dudley, in 1949 when in a parliamentary debate concerning the Burmese, Wigg shouted at the Conservative benches, \"The Honourable Gentleman and his friends think they are all 'wogs'. Indeed, the Right Honourable Member for Woodford [i.e., Winston Churchill] thinks that the 'wogs' begin at Calais.\"\n\nAs reported by English-Jewish journalist Linda Grant, people in England have referred to Jews and Israelis as \"wogs\", as well.\n\nIn Season 1 Episode 6 - 'The Germans' episode of Fawlty Towers (a 1975 British TV show), Major Gowen specifically refers to \"wog\" as meaning any person from India (when speaking about the India vs England cricket game at the Oval to Basil Fawlty).\n\nIn Australia, the term \"wog\" refers to residents of Southern European, Mediterranean, Middle Eastern, and Eastern European ethnicity or appearance. The slur became widely diffused with an increase in immigration from Europe and the Levant, mainly Albania, Croatia, Bosnia, Greece, Italy, France, Lebanon, Macedonia, Malta, Serbia, Spain and Turkey after the Second World War. These new arrivals were perceived by the majority population as contrasting with the larger predominant Anglo Protestant/Anglo-Australian/Anglo-Celtic Australian culture. The term expanded to include not just Southern European peoples, but immigrants from the Mediterranean region of the Middle East as well.\n\nToday, \"wog\" is used particularly in places in Australia with substantial Southern European, Mediterranean, and Middle Eastern populations, mainly Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. As with other slang and\" prima facie\" profanity used in contemporary Australian English, the term \"wog\" may be employed either aggressively or affectionately within differing contexts.\n\nIn Australian English, \"wog\" can also be used as a slang word for an illness such as a common cold or influenza, as in: \"I'm coming down with a wog\". Such usage is not perceived as derogatory.\n\nMore recently, Southern European-Australian performing artists have taken ownership of the term \"wog\", defusing its original pejorative nature. The popular 1980s stage show \"Wogs Out of Work\", created by Nick Giannopoulos and Simon Palomares, is an early example. The production was followed on television with \"Acropolis Now\", starring Giannopoulos, Palomares, George Kapiniaris, and Mary Coustas, and films such as \"The Wog Boy\" and \"\", and parodies such as those of Santo Cilauro (Italian), Eric Bana (Croatian-German), Vince Colosimo (Italian), Nick Giannopoulos (Greek), Frank Lotito (Italian), Mary Coustas (Greek), and SBS Television's offbeat \"Pizza\" and later Here Come the Habibs. TV series have continued this change in Australian cultural history—with some even classifying a genre of \"wogsploitation\" of pop culture products being created by and for a proudly \"wog\" market. Recent works of the genre have been used by Australians of non-English speaking backgrounds to assert ethnic identity rather than succumb to ethnic stereotypes. Upon the release of \"Wog Boy 2\", Giannopoulos discussed the contemporary use of the term \"wog\" in the Australian context:\n\nI think by defusing the word 'wog' we've shown our maturity and our great ability to adapt and just laugh things off, you know... When I first came [to Greece] and I started trying to explain to them why we got called 'wog' they'd get really angry about it, you know. They were, \"Why? Why they say this about the Greek people?\" You know? But then when they see what we've done with it—and this is the twist—that we've turned it into a term of endearment, they actually really get into that...\n\nThus, in contemporary Australia, the term \"wog\" may, in certain contexts, be viewed as a \"nickname\" rather than a pejorative term—akin to the nicknames ascribed within Australian English to other historically significant cultural groupings such as the English (\"Poms\"), the Americans (\"Yanks\") and New Zealanders (\"Kiwis\").\n\nIn Canadian military slang used by combat arms units (that is, front line fighting forces), \"wog\" is a derogatory term for any rear echelon personnel and those who are not members of the combat arms. \n\nDuane Clarridge, a former CIA officer, explained that the term \"wog factor\" was used by the CIA \"to acknowledge that the motivations that shape decision-making in North Africa, the Middle East, and the Indian subcontinent are very different from our own.\"\n\nThe word \"wog\" is used by Scientologists to refer to non-Scientologists. Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard defined wog as a \"common, everyday garden-variety humanoid ... He 'is' a body. [He] doesn't know he's there, etc. He isn't there as a spirit at all. He is not operating as a thetan.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "370547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370547", "title": "Worshipful Company of Fishmongers", "text": "Worshipful Company of Fishmongers\n\nThe Worshipful Company of Fishmongers (or Fishmongers' Company) is one of the 110 Livery Companies of the City of London, being an incorporated guild of sellers of fish and seafood in the City. The Company ranks fourth in the order of precedence of City Livery Companies, thereby making it one of the Great Twelve City Livery Companies.\n\nThe Company records an unbroken existence for over 700 years – although undoubtedly it existed earlier – having received its first Royal Charter in 1272. A predecessor guild was fined as \"adulterine\" in 1154. It took the name Stock Fishmongers' Company under another Royal Charter granted in 1508. Then, in 1537, it merged with the Salt Fishmongers' Company to form the Company with its present name.\n\nThe most famous City fishmonger is Sir William Walworth, who, as Lord Mayor of London in 1381, helped bring the Peasants' Revolt to an end by stabbing the rebel Wat Tyler to death at Smithfield in the presence of King Richard II.\n\nIn 1383, Lord Mayor John Comberton de Northampton (a Draper) persuaded the City Common Council to declare that the Fishmongers should no longer have the power to monopolise trade in fish, and this was reaffirmed by Parliament. However, in a Royal Charter granted to the Fishmongers by Richard II in 1399, all their privileges were restored. The same Charter states they should elect six Wardens annually, the number which continues to the present day.\n\nUntil the end of the 14th century the Fishmongers convened their own court of law, called \"Leyhalmode\", at which disputes over fish and seafood trade were tried by the Wardens of the Company.\n\nFrom 1555 to the present day, the Company has acted as Trustee of Gresham's School at Holt, Norfolk.\n\nIn the early 17th century, the Company was granted lands at Ballykelly and Banagher in modern-day Northern Ireland, by the Crown. It remained a major landowner there until the 20th century, and the villages contain some of the most interesting buildings erected in Ulster by the Plantation companies.\n\nIn 1714, the Irish actor Thomas Doggett provided money to endow a boat race called Doggett's Coat and Badge Race in honour of the new king, George I of Hanover. The race was originally to be rowed annually on 1 August on the River Thames, by up to six young watermen per boat who were not to be out of their apprenticeship by more than twelve months. The prize for the champion oarsman is a fine red coat embellished with a large silver badge on one arm, depicting the white horse of Hanover with the word 'liberty' underneath. Since Doggett's death, the Fishmongers' Company continues to organise this event each year, and it is now believed to be the world's longest continuously-running sporting event as well as being the longest boat race in the world – 4 miles, 5 furlongs (7,400 m).\n\nBy the 18th century, references to fish were hard to find in the Fishmongers' Company Court minutes, since the Company's main business had evolved into managing its extensive properties and administering its charities and trusts, such as Gresham's School as well as St. Peter's Hospital and almshouses at Newington in Surrey.\n\nThe Company is governed by its Prime Warden, five other Wardens and its Court of Assistants, comprising 28 appointed Livery members.\n\nIn its early history, the Company established a monopoly over the sale of fish in the City of London and its environs. Although government legislation over the years has reduced such trade restrictions, the Company is still tasked with the important role overseeing the quality of fish imported into the City mostly via Billingsgate Market, the UK's largest fish market. This responsibility is undertaken by the Company's fishmeters (inspectors) under powers established by a Royal Charter of James I in 1604.\n\nThe Company is closely involved with monitoring salmon and fresh water fishing as well as the catching of shellfish throughout UK waters. It encourages research through grants and sponsorship and also publishes books on fish, such as \"Fish and Shellfish\" and \"The Fishmongers' Company Cook Book\". Thus, the Company retains many of its ancient trade duties, unlike some other Livery Companies, whose trades having become defunct through technological advances, act for the most part as charitable benefactors or ceremonial institutions.\n\nThe Fishmongers' Company is also a significant educational charity. As well as Gresham's School, it has also long supported the City and Guilds of London Art School and the City and Guilds of London Institute.\n\nThe Company comprises about 300 members, including a good representation of working fishmongers. Liverymen of all City companies are members of Common Hall which entitles them to vote each year in the election of the Lord Mayor of the City of London, held on Michaelmas Day (29 September) or the closest weekday, and also in the election of the Sheriffs of London on Midsummer's Day. Voting is by show of hands, but should one liveryman call for a recount, a ballot is held two weeks later.\n\nThe Company's livery hall in the City of London is known as Fishmongers' Hall (sometimes shortened in common parlance to Fish Hall); its earliest recorded hall was built in 1310. A new hall, on the present site, was bequeathed to the Company in 1434. Together with 43 other Livery halls, this one was destroyed in the Great Fire of London in 1666 and a replacement hall designed by the architect Edward Jerman opened in 1671. This hall by Jerman was demolished to facilitate the construction of the new London Bridge in 1827. The Fishmongers' next hall was designed by Henry Roberts (although his assistant, later the celebrated Sir Gilbert Scott, made the drawings) and built by William Cubitt & Company, opening in 1834. After severe bomb damage during the Blitz, Fishmongers' Hall was restored by Austen Hall (of Whinney, Son & Austen Hall) and reopened in 1951.\n\nSince 1555, the Company has acted as the Trustee of Gresham's School in Holt, Norfolk, in accordance with the wishes of Lord Mayor Sir John Gresham (1492–1556). Among other responsibilities, the Company provides more than half of the school's governors, including the chairman of the governing body, which meets at Fishmongers' Hall.\n\nIn 1729, the Fishmongers' Company presented the school with \"...a valuable and useful library, not only of the best editions of the Classics and Lexicographers, but also with some books of Antiquities, Chronology, and Geography, together with a suitable pair of globes\".\n\nIn May 1926, in accepting membership of the Company by right of patrimony, the future King George VI said: \"I hope that it may be possible for me, at some future date, to prove my interest by personally visiting Gresham's School, of which I have frequently heard such excellent accounts\".\n\n\n\nThe Arms of the Company are blazoned:\n\nShield: Azure three Dolphins naiant embowed in pale Argent finned toothed and crowned Or between two pairs of Stockfish in saltire Argent over the mouth of each Fish a Crown Or on a Chief Gules three pairs of Keys of St Peter in saltire \nCrest: Upon a Helm on a Wreath Argent and Sable, two Cubit Arms the dexter vested Or cuffed Azure the sinister vested Azure cuffed Or the Hands Argent holding an Imperial Crown Proper\n\nSupporters: On the dexter side a Merman armed and holding in his right hand a Falchion and with his left sustaining the Helm and Timbre, and on the sinister side a Mermaid holding in her left hand a Mirror and supporting the Arms with her right hand, all Proper\n\nMotto: Al Worship be to God Alone (thus spelt, and shared with the Company's Gresham's School)\n\n\"Note\": In heraldry, \"naiant\" means swimming to the viewer's left, while \"embowed\" means curved like a bow. For the meanings of \"argent, azure, or, proper and sable\", see \"Tincture(s)\".\n\n\n"}
