{"id": "3805784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3805784", "title": "AAA Travel High School Challenge", "text": "AAA Travel High School Challenge\n\nThe AAA Travel High School Challenge (sometimes shortened to AAA Travel Challenge) was an annual travel-themed scholarship competition run by the American Automobile Association, open to students in grades 9-12 in the fifty United States and the District of Columbia. First run in 2003 as part of AAA's centennial celebrations, the competition became an annual event and a premier high school scholarship program for a time. The competition was notable for its national coverage\n\nThe National Finals were held yearly in Orlando, Florida. In its five years of existence, the contest awarded over $600,000 worth of scholarships. The 2007 competition featured a $20,000 top prize (down from $25,000 in past years), won by Samuel Brandt of Oregon. In addition, the 2007 competition, for the first time, also included a separate essay contest for those interested in seeking majors in travel-, tourism-, or hospitality-related careers.\n\nOften compared to the National Geographic Bee, a middle-school competition, the AAA Travel Challenge featured a similar format, with a local, state, and national level, each with progressively tougher questions and material. Unlike the National Geography Bee, however, the AAA Travel Challenge stressed team competition, rather than individual achievement.\n\nThe 2007 competition was the last Challenge to take place. Afterwards, administrators opted for a one-year hiatus from the program. Challenge administrators had hoped to use this hiatus to work out and analyze the event \"to develop strategies and tactics for an improved program.\" AAA decided that it would be best to find a single co-sponsor for the event, rather than the multiple sponsors who had supported the competition in previous years. Unfortunately, the recession and other factors made this difficult. On September 26, 2008, it was announced that the Challenge would be discontinued.\n\nStudents were eligible to participate in the AAA Travel High School Challenge if they met the following requirements (from the Official Site):\n\n\nThe competition began in December, when registration on the AAA Travel Challenge Official Site opened. Eligible students could apply and create a unique username and password which they would later use for the Stage One Internet test. From 2007 onward, students could also indicate if they desired to participate in the travel career-related Essay Competition.\n\nA student could, at any time, take a Practice Test offered on the Official Site, which gave a general sampling of questions that might have appeared.\n\nFor a specified period of time in January (usually 8–10 days), the Official Site would run the Stage One qualifying test. After students entered their unique user name and password, they would then proceed to the test.\n\nThe test consisted of 40 multiple-choice travel-themed questions to be completed in 15 minutes time (20 minutes from 2003–2006), with a countdown clock visible throughout the test. No two tests were alike, as the questions were picked from a pool of several thousand questions, with each test being \"weighted\" with an equal number of easy, medium, and hard questions. Neither reference materials (printed or electronic) nor help from another person was allowed, and this was agreed to when a student checked the \"Integrity Oath\" box during registration.\n\nQuestions had to do with destinations popular with American tourists, with most questions centering on the United States and foreign destinations such as Europe and East Asia.\n\nThe top five scorers in each state would advance to Stage Two (state of residence, not school, determined in which state one is competing for). In the event of a tie, the student(s) who used the least amount of time to answer questions would advance (from 2003–2006, random drawings initially served as tiebreakers). If a tie still existed, then, like in previous years, a random drawing determined who advances. These Top Five were usually notified 1–2 weeks after the testing period ended via e-mail. If one of the five was unable to continue, or if nothing was heard from after 72 hours of the notification e-mail being sent, then the next highest scorer would be notified.\n\nOnce all five in each state and D.C. had been confirmed (255 across the nation), each student would be sent an information packet with instructions for Stage Two.\n\nStage Two was another 40 multiple-choice question, 15-minute test (20 minutes from 2003–2006), this time, however, written and taken at the nearest AAA Office nearest to the contestant's home. The test was monitored by a AAA Official. The time period for taking the test was usually three days in March, and arrangements (through AAA) had to have been made with the office at which the test would be taken.\n\nQuestions again focused on tourist destinations, but this time become more global in nature and slightly more obscure. It is unknown whether tests were the same throughout the nation or if each state or even each individual received different tests, like Stage One.\n\nThe winner, the top scorer of the five in each state, was notified approximately one week after the testing period finishes. If the winner was unable to proceed, then the next highest scorer would notified. In the event of a tie for the top score, a random drawing determined the winner.\n\nThe National Finals were a four-day event usually held in early to mid May. Each of the 51 Stage Two Winners and one chaperone per finalist were awarded an all-expenses paid trip to Orlando, Florida, for the competition. Additional guests could attend, and arrangements could be made through AAA Travel at the expense of the Finalist's family.\n\nThe first phase was a preliminary test taken by all 51 finalists, usually in a conference room held at a sponsor hotel. The test was once again a monitored 40-question multiple choice written test to be completed in 20 minutes. Questions at this level were at their hardest yet, focusing mostly on global destinations, some familiar, but most obscure.\n\nThe top 24 scorers on the written test were invited back to participate in Phase Two (random drawings served as tiebreakers). These 24 contestants were then divided into six preliminary groups, consisting of four participants each. Contestants within each group then participated in a single-elimination oral competition, answering more questions covering the material. One winner emerged in each group, and these six winners advanced to the second half of Phase Two.\n\nThe second half of Phase Two was an individual competition introduced for the 2006 Challenge. The six finalists (which, in 2006 only, were actually the twelve finalists who had participated in the team rounds) were brought out and assigned a random order to sit in on the stage. Each contestant was then asked a question, one by one, by moderator Dr. Marc Mancini. In a manner similar to the National Spelling Bee, if the student answered correctly, he advanced to the next round. If not, then the student was eliminated. If all the contestants in a round answered incorrectly, then all were brought back to participate in the next round.\n\nThe winner was the contestant who managed to answer his/her question correctly while everyone else in the round answered incorrectly, in addition to one more question. Such procedures allowed for ties for second and third place, as shown in the results of the 2006 and 2007 competitions.\n\nAfter another day to enjoy Orlando, a banquet was held at the Hard Rock Live that evening. Prizes were officially awarded as well as other miscellaneous closing remarks and \"housekeeping notes\".\n\nThe Top 12 scorers, with random drawings acting as tiebreakers, advanced to the second phase of the competition. These finalists were usually announced about 30 minutes after testing had completed. Afterwards the twelve finalists stayed for a briefing and practice round, as all were later released to enjoy Orlando.\n\nThe next day the 12 remaining contestants as well as the 39 other finalists and families gathered for the Final Round, usually at Universal Orlando (this competition was sometimes open to the public). The 12 Finalists had been divided into four teams of three contestants each. Three game-show style rounds were conducted. The first featured two teams versus each other. The second put the other two teams against each other. The winners of each of these rounds advanced to a final head-to-head round.\n\nA round lasted 20 minutes, and featured these types of questions:\n\nThe winner of the round was the team with the highest score. The team competition was discontinued in 2007.\n\n\nAll participants in Stage One were given the option of printing a Certificate of Participation after completion of the Internet exam.\n\nIndividual states awarded miscellaneous prizes to participants of Stage Two, but none were awarded by AAA itself.\n\nAll Stage Three finalists were awarded the following by AAA and various sponsors:\n\nThe Top 24 Semifinalists (12 from 2003–2006) each received an additional $1,000 US Savings Bond and a trophy different from other finalists.\n\nTop Prizes\n\n‡Due to a four-way tie for third place, a last minute executive decision doubled the Third Place prize money to $10,000, which was to be split evenly among the four students ($2,500 each).\n\n\nNo two First Place champions (either individual or team) came from the same state. Each of the following states had two top finishers: Virginia, Massachusetts, South Carolina, Indiana, Colorado, Louisiana, Ohio, and Washington. The two who came from both Colorado and South Carolina were pairs of siblings.\n\n"}
{"id": "25596504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25596504", "title": "Alfredo Corvino", "text": "Alfredo Corvino\n\nAlfredo Corvino (February 2, 1916 – August 2, 2005) was an Uruguayan ballet dancer and ballet teacher.\n\nCorvino was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, and studied violin with his father who was a member of the Philharmonic Orchestra of Montevideo. He studied ballet as a scholarship student of Alberto Pouyanne at the National Academy of Ballet, now known as the Uruguay National Ballet School. He became a principal dancer with the Municipal Theater in Uruguay and was a choreographer and assistant ballet-master for the company as well.\n\nCorvino first toured Latin America with the Ballets Jooss, directed by the German-born expressionist, Kurt Jooss. He toured the United States with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo as a soloist, performing \"Le Spectre de la Rose\", Bluebird from \"The Sleeping Beauty\" and \"Carnaval\". He enlisted in the U.S. Army during World War II and later joined the Metropolitan Opera Ballet in New York. At the MET, Corvino performed and became ballet master of the ballet company. He was also a dedicated teacher at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School for 20 years.\n\nCorvino's exceptional training was greatly influenced by Enrico Cecchetti, the Italian master ballet teacher who worked with the Russian Imperial Ballet and Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes troupe. Other notable ballet instructors, including Anatole Vilzak, Edward Caton, Boris Romanoff, and Alexander Gavrilov, contributed to Corvino's training. The Cecchetti training method was passed down to him by the British authority, Margaret Craske. Corvino also studied with Antony Tudor, a founding choreographer of American Ballet Theater and director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and its school in the 1950s. Tudor invited Corvino to join the newly created dance division at The Juilliard School in 1952. Thus began Corvino's association with The Juilliard School, where he was a dedicated teacher for more than 40 years.\n\nCorvino has appeared with numerous dance groups, including the Radio City Music Hall Ballet, Dance Players, Herbert Ross's company, the Gavrilov Company, the Classic Ballet Company of New Jersey and Dance Circle. His international teaching credits include the Folkwang Hochschule in Germany, Bellas Artes in Caracas, the Rotterdamse Dansacademie in the Netherlands, the Theatre Contemporain de la Danse in Paris, the Cloud Gate Dance Theatre in Taiwan, and the International Festival of Dance Academies in Hong Kong. As a choreographer, Corvino worked with the Roxy Theater, the Amato Opera, the Princeton Ballet, the Maryland Ballet, and the Dance Circle troupe. He also performed with and for 10 years directed the New Jersey Dance Theater Guild (NJDTE).\n\nOn May 23, 2003, The Juilliard School awarded Alfredo Corvino an honorary doctor of fine arts degree in recognition of his contributions to dance instruction, his career as a performer and choreographer, and his dedication and commitment to dance. He was also the recipient of the 2002 Martha Hill Award for Leadership in Dance and the Juilliard Centennial Medal (May 2005).\n\nCorvino was often described as soft-spoken, gentle, precise, generous and elegant. Dancers sought out Corvino as a teacher and coach due to his extensive knowledge, his patience, and his diplomacy. He understood that a classical dancer had to be developed, often stating that a dancer could be born with facility, but that there would be no technique without the proper training. He believed that true dancers possessed an inner fire in addition to a refined technique. \n\nCorvino taught ballet with great respect of human anatomy. He recognized that many dancers became injured because they consistently worked against their own body. He stressed anatomical accuracy, musicality in dance, energy and resistance and the basic principles behind movement. He focused on the anatomy of movement to nurture the dancer's body and prolong the dancer's career.\n\nCorvino died in August 2005. His work in the world of dance is continued by his two daughters - Andra Corvino, a member of The Juilliard School dance faculty and Ernesta Corvino, a ballet teacher, choreographer and director of the Dance Circle troupe. His wife, Marcella Rubin, who was known for her elaborate costume designs, died in 2004.\n\n\"Equipose: The Life and Work of Alfredo Corvino\" (Book) by Dawn Lillie (Author), Dance & Movement Press, NY, 2009 ()\n\n"}
{"id": "27645897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27645897", "title": "Aspect (trade union)", "text": "Aspect (trade union)\n\nAspect was a former trade union in the United Kingdom for professionals working in children's services.\n\nThe union was founded in 1919 by four school inspectors as the National Association of Inspectors of Schools and Educational Organisers (NAIEO). Membership rose to around 200 by the mid-1920s, and the organisation affiliated to NALGO for representation and negotiation for some years. The two unions then separated due to policy differences, but membership continued its slow rise, reaching 800 in 1970.\n\nIn 1974, the union became the National Association of Inspectors and Educational Advisers (NAIEA), and began recruiting educational consultants. In 1977, it first gained its Certificate of Independence. By 1980, membership had reached 1,400, and the union affiliated to the National Association of Head Teachers for the provision of some services. Under the secretaryship of Bill Wright, in 1993, the union once again asserted its independence, and renamed itself as the National Association of Educational Inspectors, Advisers and Consultants (NAEIAC).\n\nThe union appointed John Chowcat as its first full-time general secretary in 1999, and affiliated to the Trades Union Congress in 2002. In 2005, membership reached 4,000, and it adopted its most recent name, a backronym for \"Association of Professionals in Education and Children's Trusts\".\n\nIn 2012, the union merged into Prospect.\n\n"}
{"id": "10514989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10514989", "title": "Association of East Asian Research Universities", "text": "Association of East Asian Research Universities\n\nThe Association of East Asian Research Universities, established in 1996 by nine universities of East Asian region, is now the organisation of 17 universities. The purpose of the organisation is to promote exchange among the member institutions, Open a forum where the major research universities of the East Asia may share research results.\n\nMainland China\n\nHong Kong\n\nJapan\n\nKorea\n\nTaiwan\n\n"}
{"id": "51215603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51215603", "title": "Australian Children's Education &amp; Care Quality Authority", "text": "Australian Children's Education &amp; Care Quality Authority\n\nThe Australian Children’s Education and Care Quality Authority (ACECQA) is an independent statutory authority that assists governments in implementing the National Quality Framework (NQF) for early childhood education and care throughout Australia. Established in 2012, the authority works with the federal, state and territory government departments to:\n\nACECQA is ultimately responsible to the Education Council, one of eight Standing Councils established under the Council of Australian Governments arrangements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47196487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47196487", "title": "Choosing Wisely Canada", "text": "Choosing Wisely Canada\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada (CWC) is a Canadian-based health education campaign launched on April 2, 2014 under the leadership of Dr. Wendy Levinson, in partnership with the Canadian Medical Association, and based at the University of Toronto. The campaign aims to help physicians and patients engage in conversations about unnecessary tests, treatments and procedures, and to assist physicians and patients in making informed and effective choices to ensure high quality care.\n\nThe campaign is based on the notion that unnecessary tests, treatments, and procedures often do more harm than good, resulting in poor clinical outcomes and significant waste in the Canadian healthcare system. These unnecessary tests and procedures take away from care by potentially exposing patients to harm, leading to more testing to investigate false positive tests, and contributing to unnecessary anxiety and avoidable costs for patients. \"Choosing Wisely Canada\" aims to encourage and empower physicians to assimilate, evaluate, and implement the ever-increasing amount of evidence on current best practice. The campaign also supports the equally important role of patient education and the need to dispel the false notion that “more care is better care”.\n\nCentral to the campaign are lists of \"Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question\" developed by more than forty-five Canadian specialty societies. These lists are intended to encourage physicians to adopt a \"think twice\" attitude to avoid unnecessary and potentially harmful tests and procedures, and to foster discussions between patients and physicians about inappropriate care. The campaign also uses patient-friendly education materials to complement these lists, as well as teaches medical trainees about resource stewardship. As of June 2, 2015, 151 physician recommendations and 26 lay language patient educational materials have been released .\n\n\"Choosing Wisely Canada\" leads an international community, made up of nations who are implementing similar programs in their respective countries. At present, this community includes representation from Australia, Austria, Brazil, Denmark, England, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, South Korea, Switzerland, United States and Wales.\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada stems from worldwide concern around providing unnecessary treatment when the risk of harm exceeds its potential benefit (\"medical overuse\"). A number of studies have highlighted the prevalence of medical overuse in Canada, which include findings that approximately 50% of prescriptions for respiratory infections in Saskatchewan are inappropriate, 28% of lumbar spine MRIs in Alberta and Ontario are unnecessary, and 28% of bone mineral density scans are inappropriate. These unnecessary invasive procedures and low value care are major causes of preventable harm and increased waste of medical resources. Medical overuse has been associated with decreased patient satisfaction and poor clinical outcomes, including higher mortality. A systematic survey of patients in seven countries revealed that 10-20% of patients believed that their physicians had provided treatment of little or no value in the past two years. Further studies highlighted the financial strain of medical overuse, such as the analysis conducted by the Institute of Medicine, which found that up to 30% of American health care spending is on unnecessary tests and procedures. In light of these concerns, Choosing Wisely Canada hopes to optimize value, reduce waste and improve patient outcomes by promoting patient-physician conversations about low-value care.\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada is modeled after the Choosing Wisely campaign launched by the ABIM Foundation of the American Board of Internal Medicine in the United States in 2012. Dr. Wendy Levinson, a Canadian physician and previous chair of the ABIM Board of Directors, was involved in launching the Choosing Wisely campaign in the United States. After its successful launch, she decided to bring the movement to Canada and partnered with the Canadian Medical Association and the University of Toronto to launch Choosing Wisely Canada on April 2, 2014. In the first wave of the campaign, nine national medical specialty societies released evidence-based lists of 41 tests, treatments and procedures that provided no benefit or potentially caused harm to patients.\n\nUnder the leadership of Dr. Wendy Levinson and the Canadian Medical Association, Choosing Wisely Canada initially gained momentum in Ontario and subsequently became a national movement. The second and third waves of physician recommendation lists and patient education materials were launched on October 29, 2014, and June 2, 2015, respectively. \nAs of June 2, 2015, more than 45 Canadian medical specialty societies are engaged and at various stages of recommendations development . In total, 151 physician recommendations and 26 lay language patient educational materials have been released in the three waves from 2014-2015.\n\n\"Choosing Wisely Canada\" has adopted a multi-faceted campaign approach, engaging physicians, patients, and medical trainees at all levels. The campaign has partnered with more than 45 Canadian medical specialty societies to develop evidence-supported lists of “Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question”, hoping to promote conversation about inappropriate care. The underlying premise is that physicians must lead such conversations, since they determine the appropriate or inappropriate use of resources. CWC has also developed complementary patient-friendly education materials, and has begun to embed lessons focusing on resource stewardship in undergraduate and postgraduate medical curricula. In order to unify grassroots projects occurring across Canada to implement physician recommendations, CWC additionally developed the Early Adopters Collaborative, which serves as a “learning platform for sharing knowledge, tools and experiences among participating organizations”.\n\nAt the core of the campaign are lists of \"Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question\" developed by national specialty societies representing a broad spectrum of physicians. These lists contain tests, treatments or procedures commonly used in their specialty, but which are not supported by evidence, and/or could expose patients to unnecessary harm.\n\nList items recommend practices to be avoided and typically begin with the word “Don’t” or “Avoid”; for example, one of the recommendations released in the first wave of the campaign was \"Don’t order screening chest X-rays and ECGs for asymptomatic or low risk outpatients\". National specialty societies are free to determine the process for generating their lists, as long as they are done in accordance with the following principles:\n\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada recommendations are not intended to be used to establish payment and coverage decisions. Rather, the lists are meant to spur conversation about what is appropriate and necessary treatment. As each patient situation is unique, Choosing Wisely Canada recommends that its materials be used as guidelines for physicians and patients to determine an appropriate treatment plan together.\n\nIn order to encourage patients to initiate conversations about unnecessary care, Choosing Wisely Canada uses patient-friendly materials with lay language to complement the lists of “Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question”. These patient educational materials are meant to inform patients about the tests, treatments and procedures used within various medical specialties, when they may or may not be necessary, and what patients can do to improve their overall health. For example, one of the patient educational materials released on June 2, 2015, addressed concerns regarding the amount of bed rest required to treat lower back pain, advising that staying in bed longer than 48 hours will not help, and in fact, may actually delay recovery.\n\nAn editorial was written by Dr. Wendy Levinson in \"The Toronto Star\" as a part of the weekly feature titled \"Doctor's Notes\". The article highlighted the Choosing Wisely campaign and encouraged patients to engage in conversations with their physicians about unnecessary care.\n\nHealthcare stakeholder groups have begun to mobilize around the CWC campaign at provincial and local levels. In Alberta, Ontario, Quebec and Atlantic Canada, multi-stakeholder tables have been established to organize, coordinate and focus provincial implementation efforts. At the local level, hospitals, health regions and physician groups across the country are working under their own initiative to find innovative ways to put the recommendations into practice. Such local implementation efforts are beginning to emerge across Canada, with activities ranging from physician and patient education, to modifying clinical processes and information systems, to providing data back to providers about their practice patterns.\n\nAnother major aspect of the campaign is engaging medical trainees at all levels. The Draft 2015 CanMEDS Framework identifies leadership as one of seven essential physician competencies, urging medical professionals to “engage in the stewardship of health care resources”, particularly to “allocate health care resources for optimal patient care” and “to apply evidence and management processes to achieve cost-appropriate care”. In order to embody these ideals, CWC is working with Canadian medical schools to introduce new content focussing on resource stewardship into the undergraduate, postgraduate and continuing medical education curricula.\n\nOn the media front, the campaign includes partnerships with patient organizations and media outlets to develop and disseminate complementary content to increase patient awareness, and to support them in conversations surrounding inappropriate care. CWC has also developed a bilingual mobile app available on both Android and Apple platforms, which contains all physician recommendations and patient educational materials organized categorically.\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada recommendations range from avoiding overuse of broad practices such as unnecessary and potentially harmful screening, diagnostic and radiographic services, to specific tests which are not supported by evidence to improve patient outcomes.\n\nExamples of recommendations which advise against overuse of broad practices include:\n\n\nExamples of specific low-value tests to avoid in certain circumstances include:\n\n\nCampaign leaders have identified a number of challenges which could potentially undermine the efforts of Choosing Wisely Canada. Since reducing unnecessary tests and procedures may result in lowering healthcare costs, the campaign may be viewed as a cost-cutting or rationing measure, which could in turn \"undermine both physician engagement and patient trust.\" Consequently, the campaign is centered around patient safety with particular emphasis on quality of care. Furthermore, Choosing Wisely Canada recommendations do not determine payment for individual services.\n\nSome physicians report feeling pressure to engage in defensive medicine (e.g., ordering more tests than necessary) because they feel that it will help them avoid litigation. The Canadian healthcare system is also set up so that specialty physicians get paid for tests and procedures conducted, and not for practicing conservative medicine. Such a system may create a pattern for physicians to recommend more treatment. This pattern may also contribute to unwilling of physicians to put recommendations on their lists pertaining specifically to their specialty, instead focusing their recommendations on overuse by other specialties.\n\nEvaluation of the campaign has also been identified as a major challenge. Campaign leaders concede that measuring the impact of Choosing Wisely is complex and may require multiple approaches, including physician and patient awareness of the campaign, documented curriculum inclusion in medical curricula, and demonstrated reduction in unnecessary testing following campaign efforts. Measuring progress of reduction in inappropriate care is particularly complex, since “the definition of appropriateness often includes knowing about symptoms and physical exam findings often not included in electronic health records and administrative databases”. Recognizing the complexity of evaluation efforts, Choosing Wisely Canada along with other international Choosing Wisely movements is working with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development to develop metrics that might be used to compare countries on specific measures of overuse, as well to develop cross-country metrics.\n\nSince patient education is a core facet of the campaign, communication with patients presents another challenge. Some campaign recommendations may require clinical education for complete comprehension. Furthermore, many patients tend to follow physician recommendations without question, even if they have questions. As such, a major portion of the campaign focuses on encouraging patients to initiate conversations about unnecessary care. Additionally, Choosing Wisely Canada has developed patient-friendly materials with straightforward, lay language to explain common tests, with a “When you need them and when you don’t” approach. These materials complement the lists of “Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question” developed by specialty societies.\n\nThe response to Choosing Wisely Canada has been positive, with physicians across the country expressing support for the campaign and highlighting the need for more resource stewardship. Dr. Danielle Martin, family physician and Vice-President Medical Affairs and Health Systems Solutions at Women's College Hospital, lists Choosing Wisely Canada as one of three major ideas to improve Canadian healthcare, highlighting that “Choosing Wisely Canada is not a rationing or cost-cutting exercising. It is about reorganizing healthcare services so we only do things for people that truly benefit their health.\" Dr. Chris Simpson, past president of the Canadian Medical Association, Professor of Medicine and Chief of Cardiology at Queen's University, Kingston, notes \"Physicians are really embracing the principles behind Choosing Wisely. It’s all about the right thing to do for patients and avoiding the harm that can come from unnecessary testing. Let’s do more of what works and…and less of what is done ‘just in case’. Society expects us to lead the way, and the physicians of Canada intend to do just that”.\n\nDr. Rick Glazier, senior scientist in primary care and population health at the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences in Toronto, highlights two aspects of the campaign that he believes are unique and have great potential. “The first”, he states, “is that it’s targeted to the public, and the second is that it’s driven not only by scientists and medical journals, but by the professional organizations themselves. For radiologists to come forward and say you shouldn’t order radiology tests under these circumstances, this is unprecedented”.\n\nThe final report of the Advisory Panel on Healthcare Innovation to Rona Ambrose, Minister of Health (Canada), saluted Choosing Wisely Canada “as an innovative physician-led and patient-centered approach that has the potential to shift healthcare away from a culture of consumption to a focus on appropriateness and quality of care”. Furthermore, the panel urged “governments to support the implementation of [Choosing Wisely Canada] in all jurisdictions and to carefully evaluate its impact”.\n\nIn addition to endorsements from eminent physician leaders and professional organizations, Choosing Wisely Canada received positive media coverage in national media sources, including \"The Globe and Mail\", the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and the Toronto Star, which heralded \"Choosing Wisely Canada\" as one of the top medical breakthroughs of the year. .\n\nOn the other hand, early criticism of Choosing Wisely in the United States highlighted that some specialty recommendations addressed overuse of resources by primary care specialties, instead of addressing unnecessary tests and procedures conducted by their own specialty colleagues. Choosing Wisely Canada responded to such criticisms by setting guidelines for its list development, which required recommendations put forward by specialty societies to pertain specifically to the specialty’s scope of practice.\n\nMany physician bloggers assert that most medical overuse is a result of practicing defensive medicine in an effort to avoid lawsuits. Others recognize the noble goal of reducing overuse and harm, but lament that the lists are too simplistic and do not necessarily advance the identification of low-value care, but merely synthesize “agreed-upon, well-established practices”.\n\nA critique of the Choosing Wisely campaign published in the Journal of the American Medical Association by Clement and Charlton highlights a number of shortcomings in the overall movement. While the critique commends the campaign for succeeding in its goal of promoting conversations about low-value care, the authors of the critique believed that the process of list development were based on “quasi-systematic methods that focus on physician participation to increase support”. The critique additionally called for increased evidence of the efficacy of the “Top Five” lists in terms of reduction in wasteful practices. Clement and Charlton furthermore warn of “Top Five List Burnout”, noting that when faced with multiple guidelines on a single topic, physicians become confused regarding which protocol to follow. In spite of these criticisms, Clement and Charlton “strongly believe in the global spirit behind the Choosing Wisely campaigns and movement” and “advocate that the priority in 2015 should be thoughtful implementation and rigorous evaluation of existing top five lists” \n\nChoosing Wisely Canada has identified a multifaceted evaluation approach to measure its impact, which includes:\n\n\nEvaluation of campaign impact on patient education and receptiveness included a randomized control trial entitled EMPOWER (Eliminating Medications Through Patient Ownership of End Results), led by Dr. Cara Tannenbaum, geriatrician and Professor in the Faculties of Medicine and Pharmacy at the Université de Montréal. The trial recruited more than 300 patients aged 65–95 years in the greater Montréal area who were long term users of benzodiazepines. Approximately half the patients were exposed to educational intervention, which included Choosing Wisely recommendations around excessive benzodiazepine therapy. The patients were then followed for 6 months. The study found that 62% of patients who received the intervention initiated conversation regarding benzodiazepine therapy discontinuation with physicians and/or pharmacists. After six months, 27% of the intervention group had stopped taking benzodiazepines, compared with 5% of the patients who did not receive the educational intervention.\n\nThe impact of Choosing Wisely Canada on test ordering and utilization was studied at the North York General Hospital in the Greater Toronto Area, one of the early adopters of the campaign. A multi-faceted campaign was implemented particularly in the hospital Emergency Department in June, 2014. Test utilization in the Emergency Department was analyzed between September 15 and November 21, 2014, and compared to the same 10-week period in 2013 to account for any seasonal variances. The study found a 41% decline in the number of laboratory tests ordered pre- and post- CWC program implementation, without any observable change in outcomes. A preliminary cost analysis revealed annual departmental savings of approximately $215,000 while maintaining the same quality of care.\n\nA quality improvement initiative based on CWC principles was launched under the supervision of Dr. Danielle Martin at the Women’s College Hospital (WCH) in Toronto. The American Thyroid Association and Choosing Wisely Canada recommends testing only Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) levels rather than testing both TSH and free thyroid hormones (such as T4) for assessment of suspected hypothyroidism, since majority of patients with hypothyroidism will present with abnormal TSH levels. A baseline audit at Women’s College Hospital revealed that 60% of all free thyroid hormones tests were performed in patients who had normal TSH levels, amounting to approximately $50,000 annually in additional laboratory testing expenditure. A “Reflex T4” approach was implemented at WCH, wherein free T4 tests would not be conducted unless TSH levels are abnormal, or if there are clinical indications of situations when measurement of free thyroid hormones would be necessary. When it is found that TSH levels are abnormal, free T4 levels would then be automatically measured. In addition to reducing inappropriate thyroid function testing, the impact of Choosing Wisely Canada is felt through numerous physician and patient awareness campaigns conducted at the hospital.\n\nMedical education efforts of CWC are currently centered at the University of Toronto, where Choosing Wisely principles are integrated into the undergraduate and postgraduate medical curricula through Problem-Based Learning seminars, lectures, resident research projects and academic half days.\n\nFollowing the example of Choosing Wisely in the United States and Choosing Wisely Canada, health leaders from Australia, Austria, Brazil, Denmark, England, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, South Korea, Switzerland, and Wales have committed to initiating similar campaigns revolving around medical stewardship and low-value care in their respective countries. Italy has integrated the principles of Choosing Wisely in a campaign called “Doing more does not mean doing better”, and the Netherlands has launched “Choosing Wisely Netherlands”, both contributing to a growing international Choosing Wisely movement\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada is funded by the Canadian Medical Association, University of Toronto and Government of Ontario, and has received grants from the Commonwealth Fund and Canadian Institutes of Health Research.\n\nIn addition to these sponsors, CWC is endorsed and supported by a number of national specialty societies, provincial medical associations, patient organizations, accrediting bodies and others.\n\nThe forty-nine specialty societies participating in the campaign include:\n\n\nThe campaign is also endorsed by all the Canadian provincial and territorial medical associations:\n\n\nThe national medical organizations endorsing CWC include:\n\n\nChoosing Wisely Canada has also partnered with a number of patient and community groups which include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "698226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698226", "title": "Concept map", "text": "Concept map\n\nA concept map or conceptual diagram is a diagram that depicts suggested relationships between concepts. It is a graphical tool that instructional designers, engineers, technical writers, and others use to organize and structure knowledge.\n\nA concept map typically represents ideas and information as boxes or circles, which it connects with labeled arrows in a downward-branching hierarchical structure. The relationship between concepts can be articulated in linking phrases such as \"causes\", \"requires\", or \"contributes to\".\n\nThe technique for visualizing these relationships among different concepts is called \"concept mapping\". Concept maps have been used to define the ontology of computer systems, for example with the object-role modeling or Unified Modeling Language formalism.\n\nA concept map is a way of representing relationships between ideas, images, or words in the same way that a sentence diagram represents the grammar of a sentence, a road map represents the locations of highways and towns, and a circuit diagram represents the workings of an electrical appliance. In a concept map, each word or phrase connects to another, and links back to the original idea, word, or phrase. Concept maps are a way to develop logical thinking and study skills by revealing connections and helping students see how individual ideas form a larger whole. An example of the use of concept maps is provided in the context of learning about types of fuel.\n\nConcept maps were developed to enhance meaningful learning in the sciences. A well-made concept map grows within a \"context frame\" defined by an explicit \"focus question\", while a mind map often has only branches radiating out from a central picture. Some research evidence suggests that the brain stores knowledge as productions (situation-response conditionals) that act on declarative memory content, which is also referred to as chunks or propositions. Because concept maps are constructed to reflect organization of the declarative memory system, they facilitate sense-making and meaningful learning on the part of individuals who make concept maps and those who use them.\n\n\nConcept mapping was developed by Joseph D. Novak and his research team at Cornell University in the 1970s as a means of representing the emerging science knowledge of students. It has subsequently been used as a tool to increase meaningful learning in the sciences and other subjects as well as to represent the expert knowledge of individuals and teams in education, government and business. Concept maps have their origin in the learning movement called constructivism. In particular, constructivists hold that learners actively construct knowledge.\n\nNovak's work is based on the cognitive theories of David Ausubel, who stressed the importance of prior knowledge in being able to learn (or \"assimilate\") new concepts: \"The most important single factor influencing learning is what the learner already knows. Ascertain this and teach accordingly.\" Novak taught students as young as six years old to make concept maps to represent their response to focus questions such as \"What is water?\" \"What causes the seasons?\" In his book \"Learning How to Learn\", Novak states that a \"meaningful learning involves the assimilation of new concepts and propositions into existing cognitive structures.\"\n\nVarious attempts have been made to conceptualize the process of creating concept maps. Ray McAleese, in a series of articles, has suggested that mapping is a process of \"off-loading\". In this 1998 paper, McAleese draws on the work of Sowa and a paper by Sweller & Chandler. In essence, McAleese suggests that the process of making knowledge explicit, using \"nodes\" and \"relationships\", allows the individual to become aware of what they know and as a result to be able to modify what they know. Maria Birbili applies that same idea to helping young children learn to think about what they know. The concept of the \"knowledge arena\" is suggestive of a virtual space where learners may explore what they know and what they do not know.\n\nConcept maps are used to stimulate the generation of ideas, and are believed to aid creativity. Concept mapping is also sometimes used for brain-storming. Although they are often personalized and idiosyncratic, concept maps can be used to communicate complex ideas.\n\nFormalized concept maps are used in software design, where a common usage is Unified Modeling Language diagramming amongst similar conventions and development methodologies.\n\nConcept mapping can also be seen as a first step in ontology-building, and can also be used flexibly to represent formal argument — similar to argument maps.\n\nConcept maps are widely used in education and business. Uses include:\n\n"}
{"id": "385822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=385822", "title": "Dershowitz–Finkelstein affair", "text": "Dershowitz–Finkelstein affair\n\nThe Dershowitz–Finkelstein affair was a public controversy involving academics Alan Dershowitz and Norman Finkelstein and their scholarship on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in 2005.\n\nShortly after the publication of the book \"The Case for Israel\", by Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz, Norman Finkelstein alleged that it was \"a collection of fraud, falsification, plagiarism and nonsense.\" Finkelstein further derided the book, remarking, \"If Dershowitz's book were made of cloth, I wouldn't even use it as a schmatta ... his book is such garbage.\" Finkelstein charged that Dershowitz had engaged in plagiarism in his use of Joan Peters' book \"From Time Immemorial\". Dershowitz has denied the charges. Former Harvard president Derek Bok, following a review requested by Harvard Law School Dean Elena Kagan, determined that no plagiarism had occurred.\n\nIn \"Beyond Chutzpah: On the Misuse of Anti-Semitism and the Abuse of History\", published by University of California Press on August 28, 2005, Finkelstein aimed to debunk \"The Case for Israel\". Dershowitz had written letters to both The New Press and to the University of California Press to prevent its publication, claiming it contained massive libel and stating that the book should not be published. Dershowitz responded in his book \"The Case for Peace\" and alleged a politically motivated campaign of vilification spearheaded by Finkelstein, Noam Chomsky, and Alexander Cockburn against several pro-Israel academics.\n\nThe bulk of \"Beyond Chutzpah\" consisted of an essay critiquing the \"new antisemitism\" and longer chapters contrasting Dershowitz's arguments in \"The Case for Israel\" with the findings of mainstream human rights organisations, such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, asserting that Dershowitz had lied, misrepresented and fabricated many of his points in order to protect Israel and hide its record of alleged human rights violations. Finkelstein maintained that \"the real issue is Israel's human rights record.\"\n\nIn addition, Finkelstein provided what he claimed is evidence of plagiarism in instances where Dershowitz reproduced the exact errors found in Peters's citation of original sources, and thus argues that Dershowitz did not check the original sources he cited, a claim that Dershowitz adamantly denied.\n\nFinkelstein noted that in twenty instances that all occur within as many pages, Dershowitz used some of the same words from the same sources that Joan Peters used, largely in the same order. Several paragraph-long quotations that the two books share have ellipses in the same position. Finkelstein claimed that in one instance Dershowitz refers to the same page number as Peters, although he is citing a different (1996) edition of the same source, in which the words appear on a different page. Finkelstein stated: \"It is left to readers to decide whether Dershowitz committed plagiarism as defined by Harvard University—'passing off a source's information, ideas, or words as your own by omitting to cite them.' According to a book review of \"Beyond Chutzpah\", written by Prof. Michael C. Desch in \"The American Conservative\", \"Finkelstein does not accuse Dershowitz of the wholesale lifting of someone else's words, but he does make a very strong case that Dershowitz has violated the spirit, if not the exact letter, of Harvard's prohibitions of the first three forms of plagiarism.\"\n\nNoting his perception of Dershowitz's lack of knowledge about specific contents of his own book during an interview of the two men by Amy Goodman on \"Democracy Now!\", Finkelstein also charged that Dershowitz could not have written the book and may not have even read it. Later, he cited such allegedly \"unserious\" references as the Sony Pictures website for Kevin Macdonald's documentary film \"One Day in September\" and an online high-school syllabus from \"Teaching the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: A Unit for High School Students\", by Professor Ronald Stockton, in his criticism of the book.\n\nDershowitz threatened to bring a legal action against the University of California Press in response to the charges in Finkelstein's book. Dershowitz claimed to have written every word of \"The Case for Israel\" by hand and to have sent the University of California Press his handwritten manuscript. He says there is not a single phrase or sentence in it that was plagiarized, and accused Finkelstein of knowing this and making the charges in order to garner publicity. Dershowitz offered to produce his handwritten drafts (he does not type) to debunk the claim that \"The Case for Israel\" was ghostwritten and claimed Finkelstein has not asked to see them.\n\nDershowitz also asked California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger to intervene in order to prevent the University of California Press from publishing the book. Schwarzenegger's legal advisor responded, however, that the governor would not intervene in issues of academic freedom.\n\nAs a result, when \"Beyond Chutzpah\" was published, it no longer used the word \"plagiarize\" in its argument that Dershowitz inappropriately borrowed from another work, nor did it include the claim that Dershowitz did not write \"The Case for Israel\", because, the publisher said, \"[Finkelstein] couldn't document that.\" \"Dershowitz has said he cited sources properly, attempting to check all primary sources and citing Peters when she was his only source.\"\n\nDershowitz said that Finkelstein has invented false charges in order to discredit supporters of Israel: \"The mode of attack is consistent. Chomsky selects the target and directs Finkelstein to probe the writings in minute detail and conclude that the writer didn't actually write the work, that it is plagiarized, that it is a hoax and a fraud,\" alleging that Finkelstein has leveled the same kind of charges against many others, calling at least 10 \"distinguished Jews 'hucksters,' 'hoaxters,' 'thieves,' 'extortionists,' and worse.\"\n\nDershowitz's subsequent book on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, \"The Case for Peace\", contains a chapter rebutting Finkelstein's charges, which Dershowitz has made available on his web site.\n\nFinkelstein argued in a letter to the \"Harvard Crimson\" published on October 3, 2003, that Dershowitz reproduced exactly two of Peters' mistakes, and made one relevant mistake of his own. In quoting Mark Twain, Finkelstein argued, \"Dershowitz cites two paragraphs from Twain as continuous text, just as Peters cites them as continuous text, but in Twain's book the two paragraphs are separated by 87 pages.\" While still quoting Twain, although Dershowitz cited a different edition of Twain's \"Innocents Abroad\" than Joan Peters cites, Finkelstein continues, \"the relevant quotes do not appear on these pages in the edition of Twain's book that Dershowitz cites.\" Finkelstein points out that these quotations do, however, appear on the pages that Joan Peters cites as her edition of \"Innocents Abroad\". Finkelstein asserted: \"Quoting a statement depicting the miserable fate of Jews in mid-19th century Jerusalem, Peters cites a British consular letter from 'Wm. T. Young to Viscount Canning.' Dershowitz cites the same statement as Peters, reporting that Young 'attributed the plight of the Jew in Jerusalem' to pervasive anti-Semitism. Turning to the original, however, we find that the relevant statement did not come from Young but, as is unmistakably clear to anyone who actually consulted the original, from an enclosed memorandum written by an 'A. Benisch' that Young was forwarding to Canning.\" He concluded: \"It would be impossible for anyone who checked the original source[s] to make the[se] error[s].\"\n\nIn response to the general charge of plagiarism, Dershowitz had characterized the excerpts as quotations that historians and scholars of the region cite routinely, such as Mark Twain and the reports of government commissions.\n\nIn \"Statement of Alan M. Dershowitz\" featured on a faculty webpage at Harvard Law School,\nDershowitz writes:\nI will no longer participate in this transparent ploy to gather media attention for Finkelstein and his publisher. I answer all of his charges fully in Chapter 16 of my forthcoming book \"The Case For Peace\", to be published by Wiley in August. My book deals with important and current issues, such as the prospects for peace in the immediate future. Finkelstein's deals with the irrelevant past that both Israelis and Palestinians are trying to put behind them. Let the marketplace judge our books. As far as I'm concerned, the public controversy is over and I will comment no further on the false charges leveled by Finkelstein and the UCP. Let them henceforth pay for their own publicity, instead of trying to get it on the cheap by launching phony attacks against me.\n\nI will not debate Finkelstein. I have a longstanding policy against debating Holocaust deniers, revisionists, trivializers or minimizers. Nor is a serious debate about Israel possible with someone who acknowledges that he knows \"very little\" about that country. I will be happy to debate any legitimate experts from Amnesty International or any other human rights organization. Indeed, I have a debate scheduled with Noam Chomsky about these issues in the fall [2005].\n\nDershowitz strenuously denied that he did not credit Peters' book adequately in his own book, and Harvard University supported him in that position in exonerating him against Finkelstein's charges that he committed \"plagiarism\".\n\nIn their joint interview aired on Amy Goodman's radio program \"Democracy Now!\", Dershowitz responded to Finkelstein's various arguments.\n\nDuring the joint interview of Dershowitz and Finkelstein in a 2003 \"Democracy Now!\" broadcast, host Amy Goodman alluded to an appearance on MSNBC's \"Scarborough Country\" in which Dershowitz made a challenge to \"give $10,000 to the PLO\" (Palestine Liberation Organization), playing a clip from the other program. In the headnote to the transcript, Goodman wrote:\n\nOn MSNBC's Scarborough Country on September 8, 2003, renowned appellate lawyer, Harvard Law professor and author Alan Dershowitz says: \"I will give $10,000 to the PLO... if you can find a historical fact in my book that you can prove to be false.\" The book Dershowitz refers to is his latest work \"The Case For Israel\".\nToday author and professor Norman Finkelstein takes him on and charges that Dershowitz makes numerous factual errors in his book. Dershowitz denies the charges. Finkelstein teaches at DePaul University and is the author of four books including \"The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering\".\n\nThe segment of \"Democracy Now!\" appears in the included transcript of the program:\n\nAmy Goodman: ...we were intrigued on watching \"Scarborough Country\" when you debated, the offer that you made [...] just play it for a moment.\n\nAlan Dershowitz: Tell you what, I will give $10,000 to the P.L.O. in your name if you can find historical fact in my book that you can prove to be false. I issue that challenge, I issue it to you, I issue it to the Palestinian Authority, I issue it to Noam Chomsky to Edward Said, every word in my book is accurate and you can't just simply say it's false without documenting it. Tell me one thing in the book now that is false?\n\nAmy Goodman: Okay. Let's go to the book. The Case for Israel $10,000.\n\nOn \"Democracy Now!\" Finkelstein replied to that specific challenge for material errors found in his book overall, and Dershowitz upped it to $25,000 for another particular \"issue\" that they disputed.\n\nFinkelstein referred to \"concrete facts which are not particularly controversial,\" stating that in \"The Case for Israel\" Dershowitz attributes to Israeli historian Benny Morris the figure of between 2,000 and 3,000 Palestinian Arabs who fled their homes from April to June 1948, when the range in the figures presented by Morris is actually 200,000 to 300,000.\n\nDershowitz responded to Finkelstein's reply by stating that such a mistake could not have been intentional, as it harmed his own side of the debate: \"Obviously, the phrase '2,000 to 3,000 Arabs' refers either to a sub-phase [of the flight] or is a typographical error.\" In this particular context, Dershowitz's argument is that Palestinians left as a result of orders issued by Palestinian commanders: \"If in fact, 200,000 were told to leave instead of 2,000, that strengthens my argument considerably.\"\n\nIn his review of \"Beyond Chutzpah\", echoing Finkelstein's criticisms, Michael Desch, political science professor at University of Notre Dame observed:\n\nNot only did Dershowitz improperly present Peters's ideas, he may not even have bothered to read the original sources she used to come up with them. Finkelstein somehow managed to get uncorrected page proofs of \"The Case for Israel\" in which Dershowitz appears to direct his research assistant to go to certain pages and notes in Peters's book and place them in his footnotes directly (32, col. 3).\n\nOxford academic Avi Shlaim had also been critical of Dershowitz, saying he believed that the charge of plagiarism \"is proved in a manner that would stand up in court.\"\n\nLos Angeles attorney Frank Menetrez concluded in an opinion piece that he can find \"no way of avoiding the inference that Dershowitz copied the quotation from Twain from Peters' \"From Time Immemorial\", and not from the original source,\" as Dershowitz claimed. Dershowitz has replied briefly to this charge, in an exchange with Menetrez. Menetrez has also said his belief that \"neither Dershowitz nor Harvard, however, has identified the specific issues or arguments that Harvard allegedly investigated and rejected. In particular, neither of them has ever said whether Harvard investigated the identical errors issue.\"\n\nIn Desch's review of \"Beyond Chutzpah\", summarizing Finkelstein's case against Dershowitz for \"torturing the evidence,\" particularly Finkelstein's argument relating to Dershowitz's citations of Morris, Desch observed:\nThere are two problems with Dershowitz's heavy reliance on Morris. The first is that Morris is hardly the left-wing peacenik that Dershowitz makes him out to be, which means that calling him as a witness in Israel's defense is not very helpful to the case. The more important problem is that many of the points Dershowitz cites Morris as supporting—that the early Zionists wanted peaceful coexistence with the Arabs, that the Arabs began the 1948 War to destroy Israel, that the Arabs were guilty of many massacres while the Israelis were scrupulous about protecting human rights, and that the Arabs fled at the behest of their leaders rather than being ethnically cleansed by the Israel Defense Forces—turn out to be based on a partial reading or misreading of Morris's books. Finkelstein documents these charges in exhaustive detail in Appendix II of his book and the preponderance of evidence he provides is conclusive.\" (30–31)\n\nAs Desch acknowledges in his book review of \"Beyond Chutzpah\", \"In the wake of a number of similar complaints against Dershowitz and two of his Harvard Law School colleagues Laurence Tribe and Charles Ogletree, former Harvard President Derek Bok conducted an investigation—the details of which were not made public—that... vindicated Dershowitz\" (32, col. 3).\n\nIn September 2006, Alan Dershowitz sent members of DePaul University's law and political science faculties what he described as \"a dossier of Norman Finkelstein's most egregious academic sins, and especially his outright lies, misquotations, and distortions that... are not incidental to Finkelstein's purported scholarship; they are Finkelstein's purported scholarship,\" and he lobbied professors, alumni and administrators to deny Finkelstein tenure. De Paul's political science committee investigated the accusations against Finkelstein and concluded that they were not based on legitimate criticism. The department subsequently invited John Mearsheimer and Ian Lustick, two independent academics with known expertise on the Israel/Palestine conflict to evaluate the academic merit of Finkelstein's work. Mearsheimer and Lustick came to the same conclusion. In April 2007 the De Paul University Liberal Arts and Sciences' Faculty Governance Council had voted unanimously to send a letter to Harvard University expressing \"the council's dismay at Professor Dershowitz's interference in Finkelstein's tenure and promotion case.\"\n\nIn early 2007 the DePaul University Political Science department voted 9 to 3, and the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Personnel Committee 5 to 0, in favor of giving Finkelstein tenure. The three opposing faculty members subsequently filed a minority report opposing tenure, supported by the Dean of the College, Chuck Suchar. Suchar stated he opposed tenure because Finkelstein's \"personal and reputation demeaning attacks on Alan Dershowitz, Benny Morris, and the holocaust authors Eli Wiesel and Jerzy Kosinski\" were inconsistent with DePaul's \"Vincentian\" values. In June 2007 a 4–3 vote by DePaul University's Board on Promotion and Tenure (a faculty board), affirmed by the university's president, the Rev. Dennis Holtschneider, denied Finkelstein tenure. Finkelstein was placed on administrative leave for the 2007–2008 academic year (the remainder of his contract with DePaul), his sole course having been cancelled. However, in announcing his decision, Holtschneider said the outside attention \"was unwelcome and inappropriate and had no impact on either the process or the outcome of this case.\" On September 5, 2007, Finkelstein resigned after he and the university reached a settlement; they released a joint statement on the resolution of the conflict.\n\nIn \"The Holocaust Industry\", Finkelstein questioned Elie Wiesel's claim to have read Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" in Yiddish. According to Finkelstein, no translation of the work existed in Yiddish at the time. Dershowitz responded that this was not so: he alleged that one had been published in Warsaw in 1929, and said that he had seen a copy at the Harvard Library.\n\nFinkelstein described this latter claim as false and inept, writing that the only work by Kant in Yiddish owned by the library was a partial translation of the \"Critique of Practical Reason\", a completely different work than the one referred to by Wiesel and Dershowitz.\n\nDuring a clash with members of J Street at the 2010 American Israel Public Affairs Committee conference, Dershowitz chastised J Street for pandering to anti-Israel activists and asked, \"Why are you so popular with Norman Finkelstein?\" Both J Street and Finkelstein rebuffed Dershowitz's claim.\n\n"}
{"id": "23713259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23713259", "title": "Design Factory", "text": "Design Factory\n\nDesign Factory (DF) is one of the three factories of Aalto University. The stated purpose of the Design Factory is to be a constantly developing environment for learning, teaching, research and industry co-operation related to product development and design.\n\nThe director of Design Factory is professor Kalevi Ekman.\n\nThe current company partners of DF are Nokia (supporting partner), Kone (project sponsor), Aito, Bravo Media, Powerkiss, Seos Design, Uploud Audio, and Veturi Growth Partners. Also, some non-profit organizations have their premises on Design Factory. There are also research projects going on at DF.\n\nDesign Factory is physically located in Otaniemi specifically in Betonimiehenkuja 5, Espoo.\n\nDesign Factory was opened in September 2008 and the opening ceremony was held October 3, 2008. During Fall 2008 and spring 2009, the Product Development Project (PDP) took place in the factory.\n\nThe building itself is an old wood processing technology building, which has been redecorated. Six bigger places: the stage, the studio, lobby, engine room, puuhamaa, and cafe constitute the main spaces of Design Factory.\n\n"}
{"id": "28342585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28342585", "title": "Det Nødvendige Seminarium", "text": "Det Nødvendige Seminarium\n\n\"Det Nødvendige Seminarium\" (DNS) () is a private teacher training college located in Denmark. DNS was founded in Denmark in 1972 and has since educated hundreds of teachers now working all over the world in jobs concerned with constant improvement of alternative education for children, youngsters and adults.\n\nDNS is integrated part of the School Center Tvind, and since 2011 DNS is in cooperation with One World University (OWU) in Mozambique, which opened opportunity of three year alternative distance learning program offering a degree of licentiate of pedagogy.\n\nThe college is private, and the students are self-financed within the framework of the college. The program is half practical - half theoretical with a learning by doing approach.\n\nDNS The Necessary Teacher Training program is made for a person to become a human being in its own rights – not defined by a job or a salary, but by humanity, personal values and skills, as well as abilities to live and work together with others and to bring necessary changes to the community. One of the methods of teaching such skills is by principal 'common meetings governs the school'.\n\nDNS educates a student to become a teacher. Obtained teaching skills in a future work with other people enables to explain many complex phenomena of the world. It will be possible to teach social sciences, history, natural sciences, and other subjects, and share many real world experiences, emotions and attitudes.\n\nA teacher plays an important role in society – especially in a society where more and more people – parents and children – are marginalized and discriminated, and have become poor – not only in material values, but indeed in lack of contemporary care and attention in school and lack of opportunities. The big task of the teacher is to prevent alienation and create a human culture by building bridges between all kinds of people.\n\n2 months in Denmark preparing for a 4-month study travel through West Africa; and 3 months of elaboration and information work for people in Europe; 3 months bringing it to the public where the teams bring all they learned about people's life in West Africa to the people in Europe and 3 months saving up to earn money for the expenses of the second year of the education.\n\n6 months training in experiencing and understanding the national reality by seeking employment in factories and other workplaces. Living, studying,working and organizing cultural events in a bigger European city; 3 months studies and exams at the school and 3 months “Doing what you find most appropriate to do”.\n\n8 months training, working, and understanding the reality of children and teachers by seeking employment in a European school; 4 months at the college studying; 4 months at the college studying and taking the last exams.\n\nIn DNS college can enroll students holding EU passports.\nThe teaching language is English. However, first year students do not need to be fluent in English, but able to communicate and study in English.\n\nThe 3-year education includes working and saving up periods, where the students can earn their basic living expenses and school fees.\n\nThe expenses for the 1st Year have to be saved up before the program starts. It includes school fees, the basic living costs like food, accommodation, pocket money, and the costs of the study travel to Africa. Some students can earn all the money in their home countries or somewhere else and just arrive when the program starts. Others earn at least part of the money by themselves and, if they have no possibility of raising the full amount alone, they can apply to join DNS’ \"saving-up group\", where they seek all kinds of jobs together to raise the funds in a common effort, while building up their team. Since 2012 DNS have offered a 1-year saving up period starting August 1 for a limited number of students.\n"}
{"id": "53960024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53960024", "title": "Dugald Cameron", "text": "Dugald Cameron\n\nProfessor Dugald Cameron, OBE, FCSD, FRSA (born 1939) is a Scottish artist and industrial designer.\n\nCameron was born in Glasgow in 1939 and raised near Clydebank, attending the High School of Glasgow. He obtained both a DA and a Postgraduate Diploma from Glasgow School of Art. He subsequently worked as a freelance industrial designer, during which time he designed a prototype medical ultrasound machine, the Lund machine (aka the Sundén machine, after Bertil Sundén of Lund University, who commissioned it), and the production version, the Diasonograph, working with medical physicist . \n\nHe also worked as an artist, specialising in aviation subjects. As an aviation and railway historian, he has published books on both topics.\n\nAppointed a visiting lecturer at Glasgow School of Art in 1963, he became Senior Lecturer in Product Design there in 1970, and subsequently rose to be Governor, Head of Design and finally, from 1991 to his retirement in 1999, Director.\n\nHe is an Honorary Professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the University of Glasgow. He was a member of the academic advisory panel on the development of displays at Glasgow's Riverside Museum, but criticised the final arrangements, saying \"The building itself and its historic setting is splendid, but I think that the exhibition, and the way it has been handled, is a bit dumbed-down. I don’t think the exhibition design is satisfactory at all - it seems to be [more] visual effect than scholarly effort. It seems to me to be an incoherent exhibition.\"\n\nHe was awarded the Lord Provost of Glasgow's Gold Medal for Education in 1998 and appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2000 New Year Honours, \"for services to Art and Design\". The same year, he was made an honorary Doctor of Science by the University of Strathclyde. A Companion of the Royal Aeronautical Society, he was granted the Baird of Bute Society's aviation award in 2013. His paintings are in the collections of the National Museum of Flight, the Royal Navy Submarine Museum and the Fleet Air Arm Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "32345113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32345113", "title": "Education and the LGBT community", "text": "Education and the LGBT community\n\nIn the recent history of the expansion of LGBT rights, the issue of teaching various aspects of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender life and existence to younger children has become a heated point of debate, with proponents stating that the teaching of LGBT-affirming topics to children will increase a sense of visibility for LGBT students and reduce incidences of homophobia or closeted behavior for children, while opponents to the pedagogical discussion of LGBT people to students are afraid that such discussions would encourage children to violate or question religiously or ideologically motivated rejections of non-heterosexuality in private settings (or promote a \"homosexual agenda\"). Much of the religious and/or social conservative aversion to non-heterosexuality and the broaching of the topic to juveniles tends to occur in regions with a historic demographic dominance or majority of adherents to an Abrahamic religion, particularly the majority of denominations of Christianity, Islam and Judaism, while those who were raised in those religions but advocate or take more favorable/nuanced positions on LGBT issues or are LGBT themselves may often be ostracized from more socially conservative congregations over the issue.\n\nThe primary type of organization for representation of LGBT students on campus is the gay–straight alliance. These are organized in order to represent requests by LGBT and straight ally students on campus to the administration and faculty and encourage a safer environment for students.\n\nLGBT student centers may be organized as offices of the school's administration that offer paid faculty support to students. They not only support the LGBT community but they promote positivity and equality for their students. Resources are also usually given for any kind of information needed. The center heavily enforces others to be respectful and mindful of one's sexual orientation, pronouns, preferences etc. LGBT student centers are in a way, safe zones for people to not feel judged or criticized. They create an awareness that completely shuts out negatively but welcomes anyone in.\n\nHomophobia and heterosexism are closely related words, used to represent a fear of equality of the heterosexual population and the LGBT community. Homophobia, for example, is defined by \"overt expression of dislike, harassment and even assault\" towards the LGBT community. Heterosexuality, on the other hand, describes a sense of entitlement to denounce the superiority of heterosexuality and the need for heterosexuality to be the only sexual orientation. However, homophobia and heterosexism are intermingling, pertaining to the ability to proclaim heterosexuality as \"normal\" and therefore, homophobia as \"abnormal\" and \"different\". Homophobia can also be used to reinforce heterosexism in an institution such as in education as curriculum in schools are based on a heterosexual perspective which increases the need for others to conform to heterosexuality and therefore ignore homophobic acts and comments.\n\nThe issue of homophobic bullying and violence by students and teachers is increasingly broached by advocates as a reason for the intervention of administration on behalf of LGBT students.\n\nA restorative approach in schools is a way of preventing bullying of LGBT students. Planning committees can be formed by students who want to help educate their peers on LGBT. A restorative response that helped educate students and school staff included a Lesbian and Gay Pride week at an elementary school in Canada in the late 1990s. A student-planned unit on Lesbian and Gay Pride week was composed of a series of events dedicated to educate on LGBT history, diverse family structures, and included guest speakers. Restorative responses help provide welcoming, safe, and equitable environments.\n\nThe inclusion of LGBT topics in teaching of history and social sciences are also advocated by topics in order to increase pride and self-respect among LGBT students and reduce shame or self-pity for the lack of emphasis upon famous LGBT persons. Sex education. With regards to the topic, it is somewhat important to acknowledge what it is like to be labeled as LGBT. Often people use words that may relate to the LGBT community with a negative annotation. For example, phrases like \"that's so gay\" or \"you are being a faggot\", suggest that being gay is a \"bad\" thing. The more we allow this kind of communication, it will only continue to be a criticized expression. To some it comes as a relief and sense of empowerment, but others have to deal with the stigma which is attached to LGBT. The common stereotypes of queer include, but are not limited to: sexually confused, pedophiles, and violation of gender roles. Stereotypes help to create the stigma which is cast upon the LGBT community, which in turn results in the marginalization of the group. Labeling can effect others attitudes towards the individual being labeled. The labeling perspective also focuses on the roles of moral entrepreneurs, rule creators and enforcers. These are individuals who create rules and enforce them.\n\nAs general sex education often faces fierce opposition from religious congregations which are doctrinally averse to contraception, sex education which includes homosexuality is considered especially egregious among opponents. The matter of sex education often leads more devout Abrahamists to withdraw their children from the school's tutelage, leading to further educational terms which emphasize Abrahamic religious mores, such as abstinence, heterosexuality and monogamy. This aversion is criticized by advocates of sex education who assert that many of the pupils of such education eventually find their own means to those practices or realizations which are expressly forbidden by religious institutions.\n\nAs well, sexual education curriculums continuously fails to inform LGBTQ students on crucial health issues that may arise during sexual intercourse. Some of the neglected information reflects on sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV and AIDS, which are commonly enforced upon the gay community through socially accepted stereotypes. Sex ed curriculum also disregards any information pivotal to LGBTQ students in order for schools to avoid tensions with religious groups. Like wise, most of the material presented in schools focus on a heterosexual perspective that encourages \"abstinence until marriage\", a typical practice accredited to various religious groups that promote the need of heterosexuality for a healthy sexual life.\n\nWhere schools may hold formal engagements such as proms, homecomings and Winter Formals which typically involve set gender roles, issues have arisen with the following:\n\nVarious jurisdictions have taken different reactions to such issues, which have resulted in controversy and legal disputes over discrimination by state schools (i.e., the 2010 Itawamba County School District prom controversy).\n\nCampus events have been created for LGBTQ students in order to be inclusive of such students and their allies. These include the queer prom and the Lavender Graduation; the latter was first organized by Dr. Ronni Sanlo, then the director of the LGBT Center at the University of Michigan, in 1995.\n\nEducation sector responses to LGBT violence addresses the ways in which education systems work to create safe learning environments for LGTB students. Overall, education sector responses tend to focus on homophobia and violence linked to sexual orientation and gender identity/expression, and less on transphobia. Most responses focus in some way on diverse expressions of gender and support students to understand that gender may be expressed in a different way from binary models (of masculine and feminine). Responses vary greatly in their scope (from a single class to the national level); duration (from one-off events to several years); and level of support that they enjoy (from individual teachers to the highest levels of government).\n\nHistoric legal denigration of non-heterosexuality and non-vaginal sexual intercourse (even among heterosexual partners) continues to have a long-running residual effect on the public discourse. The first gay–straight alliances to be established in public schools in the early 1990s faced stiff opposition from faculty, administration and parents of students, with protests and fierce debates over the matter, but GSAs have since been established for middle school students in a number of jurisdictions.\n\nIn California, GSAs now number over 762, representing over 50% of California's public high schools. In 2011, the State Legislature passed the FAIR Education Act, which, if signed into law, would make California the first state in the United States to mandate the teaching of LGBT-affirmative social sciences (i.e., LGBT history) in the public school system and forbid discriminatory language in the school curriculum.\n\nOne of the pre-eminent organizations advocating for LGBT education and academic rights in the United States is GLSEN.\n\nIn 2016 a report titled \"The National Inventory of School District Interventions in Support of LGBTQ Student Wellbeing\" was issued by Lead Investigator Dr. Catherine Taylor, University of Winnipeg and her research team. The report, funded by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, outlines the interventions taken by Canadian public schools in support of LGBTQ students. Findings presented in the report include acknowledgements that urban schools districts are more likely to have LGBTQ-specific interventions than rural districts and that, in general, Alberta and Quebec are less likely than other Canadian provinces to have specific interventions. Interestingly, the report also found that interventions were more likely to occur at the elementary and middle school level than the secondary level.\n\nAlso, it should be noted that throughout Canada, school districts were far less likely to have trans-specific policies.\n\nThe Recommendation to member states on measures to combat discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity was adopted unanimously by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in 2010. It advises the education sectors of the 47 member states to take measures ‘at all levels to promote mutual tolerance and respect in schools, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity’. It specifies that this should include ‘providing objective information with respect to sexual orientation and gender identity, for instance in school curricula and educational materials, and providing pupils and students with the necessary information, protection and support to enable them to live in accordance with their sexual orientation and gender identity’. The recommendation further advises countries to ‘design and implement school equality and safety policies and action plans and may ensure access to adequate anti-discrimination training or support and teaching aids’.\n\nThe European Social Charter guarantees the right to the protection of health, including through the provision of advisory and educational facilities. This positive obligation ‘extends to ensuring that educational materials do not reinforce demeaning stereotypes and perpetuate forms of prejudice which contribute to the social exclusion, embedded discrimination and denial of human dignity often experienced by historically marginalized groups such as persons of non-heterosexual orientation.’\n\nIn Australia, the Safe Schools Coalition’s approach actively supports the establishment of Gay Straight Alliances (GSAs) and other youth-led initiatives for peer support and information. It also provides professional development for teachers and other school staff that can be tailored to schools’ specific needs. It has developed guidelines on non-discrimination, bullying and diversity policies and a broad set of resources, including books and videos.\n\nSeveral international human rights mechanisms mandate safe, accepting and supportive learning environments that are free from violence and discrimination for all students. Together, these frameworks support a rights-based response to violence in schools – one that can be applied to addressing homophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings.\n\nThe right to education is recognized under: Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948); the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education (1960); Article 13 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1966); Article 10 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (1981); and Article 28 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989).\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of the Child is the most widely ratified human rights treaty in the world. The original text, adopted in 1989, did not refer directly to sexual orientation or gender identity/expression. However, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has specified how the Convention can be used to protect children who are perceived to not conform to gender norms, including LGBTI children. This is particularly through the Committee’s General Comments, which interpret the content of the human rights provisions. For example, in 2003, the Committee clarified in General Comment (GC #4), Paragraph 6, that ‘States parties have the obligation to ensure that all human beings below 18 enjoy all the rights set forth in the Convention without discrimination (art. 2) [...] These grounds also cover adolescents’ sexual orientation’. This, therefore, recognized that the universal rights described by the Convention apply also to children who are lesbian, gay or bisexual, or perceived as such.\n\nSubsequently, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child made concluding observations to several State Parties (which can be considered as jurisprudence). It also issued additional General Comments related to the protection of the rights of LGBT children using the following three articles of the Convention:\nSeveral past and current international development agendas also mandate learning environments that are safe and inclusive for all students and guarantee their well-being, specifying or implying that educational institutions should be free from violence.\n"}
{"id": "35529150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35529150", "title": "Flipped classroom", "text": "Flipped classroom\n\nA flipped classroom is an instructional strategy and a type of blended learning that reverses the traditional learning environment by delivering instructional content, often online, outside of the classroom. It moves activities, including those that may have traditionally been considered homework, into the classroom. In a flipped classroom, students watch online lectures, collaborate in online discussions, or carry out research at home while engaging in concepts in the classroom with the guidance of a mentor.\n\nIn the traditional model of classroom instruction, the teacher is typically the central focus of a lesson and the primary disseminator of information during the class period. The teacher responds to questions while students defer directly to the teacher for guidance and feedback. In a classroom with a traditional style of instruction, individual lessons may be focused on an explanation of content utilizing a lecture-style. Student engagement in the traditional model may be limited to activities in which students work independently or in small groups on an application task designed by the teacher. Class discussions are typically centered on the teacher, who controls the flow of the conversation. Typically, this pattern of teaching also involves giving students the task of reading from a textbook or practicing a concept by working on a problem set, for example, outside school.\n\nThe flipped classroom intentionally shifts instruction to a learner-centered model in which class time explores topics in greater depth and creates meaningful learning opportunities, while educational technologies such as online videos are used to 'deliver content' outside of the classroom. In a flipped classroom, 'content delivery' may take a variety of forms. Often, video lessons prepared by the teacher or third parties are used to deliver content, although online collaborative discussions, digital research, and text readings may be used. It has been shown that the ideal length of the video lesson to be is eight to twelve minutes.\n\nFlipped classrooms also redefine in-class activities. In-class lessons accompanying flipped classroom may include activity learning or more traditional homework problems, among other practices, to engage students in the content. Class activities vary but may include: using math manipulatives and emerging mathematical technologies, in-depth laboratory experiments, original document analysis, debate or speech presentation, current event discussions, peer reviewing, project-based learning, and skill development or concept practice Because these types of active learning allow for highly differentiated instruction, more time can be spent in class on higher-order thinking skills such as problem-finding, collaboration, design and problem solving as students tackle difficult problems, work in groups, research, and construct knowledge with the help of their teacher and peers.\n\nA teacher's interaction with students in a flipped classroom can be more personalized and less didactic, and students are actively involved in knowledge acquisition and construction as they participate in and evaluate their learning.\n\nIn 1993, Alison King published \"From Sage on the Stage to Guide on the Side,\" in which she focuses on the importance of the use of class time for the construction of meaning rather than information transmission. While not directly illustrating the concept of \"flipping\" a classroom, King's work is often cited as an impetus for an inversion to allow for the educational space for active learning.\n\nHarvard professor Eric Mazur played a significant role in the development of concepts influencing flipped teaching through the development of an instructional strategy he called peer instruction. Mazur published a book in 1997 outlining the strategy, entitled \"Peer Instruction: A User's Manual\". He found that his approach, which moved information transfer out of the classroom and information assimilation into the classroom, allowed him to coach students in their learning instead of lecture.\n\nLage, Platt and Treglia published a paper entitled \"Inverting the Classroom: A Gateway to Creating an Inclusive Learning Environment\" (2000), which discusses their research on flipped classrooms at the college level. In their research focusing on two college economics courses, Lage, Platt, and Treglia assert that one can leverage the class time that becomes available from the inversion of the classroom (moving information presentation via lecture out of the classroom to media such as computers or VCRs) to meet the needs of students with a wide variety of learning styles. The University of Wisconsin-Madison deployed software to replace lectures in large lecture-based computer science course with streaming video of the lecturer and coordinated slides. In the late 1990s, J. Wesley Baker was experimenting with these same ideas at Cedarville University. He presented a paper discussing what he termed the \"classroom flip\" at an education conference in the year 2000 in what may be the first published mention of the word \"flip\" associated with this model of teaching and learning.\n\nKaw and Hess published a paper in 2007 to compare the effectiveness of 4 instructional modalities for a single topic of a STEM course -(i) traditional lecture, (ii) blended (what they called \"Web-enhanced lecture\"), (iii) Web-based self-study and (iv) flipped (what they called \"Web-based self-study and classroom discussion\"). Statistical analysis of the assessment data indicated that the second modality, in which Web-based modules for instruction were used during face-to-face lecture delivery mode, resulted in higher levels of student performance and satisfaction.\n\nPerhaps the most recognizable contributor to the flipped classroom is Salman Khan. In 2004, Khan began recording videos at the request of a younger cousin he was tutoring because she felt that recorded lessons would let her skip segments she had mastered and replay parts that were troubling her. Salman Khan founded Khan Academy based on this model. For some, Khan Academy has become synonymous with the flipped classroom; however, these videos are only one form of the flipped classroom strategy.\n\nThe Wisconsin Collaboratory for Enhanced Learning has built two centers to focus on flipped and blended learning. The classroom structure houses technology and collaboration-friendly learning spaces, and emphasis for those involved in the program is placed on individualized learning through non-traditional teaching strategies such as flipped classroom.\n\nWoodland Park High School chemistry teachers Jonathan Bergmann and Aaron Sams began practising flipped teaching at the high school level when, in 2007, they recorded their lectures and posted them online in order to accommodate students who missed their classes. They note that one person cannot be credited with having invented the inverted or flipped classroom, and assert that there is no one 'right' way to flip a classroom as approaches and teaching styles are diverse, as are needs of schools. They went on to develop the \"Flipped-Mastery\" model and wrote extensively about it in their book Flip Your Classroom.\n\nIn 2011 educators in Michigan's Clintondale High School flipped every classroom. Principal Greg Green led an effort to help teachers develop plans for flipped classrooms, and worked with social studies teacher, Andy Scheel, to run two classes with identical material and assignments, one flipped and one conventional. The flipped class had many students who had already failed the class—some multiple times. After 20 weeks, students in the flipped classroom were outperforming students in the traditional classrooms. Further, no students in the flipped classrooms scored lower than a C+, while the previous semester 13 percent had failed. The traditional classroom showed no change. Before this, Clintondale had been designated as among the state's worst 5 percent. The next year when teachers used a flipped model in the 9th grade, the failure rates in English, math, science, and social studies dropped significantly, with the now-flipped school's failure rate dropping from 30 to 10 percent in 2011. Results on standardized tests went up in 2012, but then dropped however.\n\nMEF University, a non-profit private university located in Istanbul, Turkey, is the first university in the world that has adopted the \"flipped classroom\" educational model university-wide. In 2016, Emerald published \"The Flipped Approach to Higher Education: Designing Universities for Today's Knowledge Economies and Societies\", written by MEF University President, Muhammed Şahin, and the Director of the Center for Excellence in Learning and Teaching, Caroline Fell Kurban.\n\nWhile flipped classroom have been found effective in secondary schools, flipped methods may also be effective in improving student learning at the community college level. The flipped classroom model allows faculty to engage students in innovative ways, both inside and outside the classroom, and to employ a range of modern teaching tools and approaches. This may be effective in diverse classroom environments with students who have different learning preferences.\n\nProponents of flipped classrooms in higher education have had an interest in seeing this put into practice in university classrooms. Professors at the University of Graz conducted a study in which lectures were video recorded in a manner in which students could have access to them throughout the semester of a lecture-based course on educational psychology. The professors surveyed how the students used their educational tools: attending lectures and watching or rewatching videos. Students subsequently rated (on a scale of 1=none to 6=nearly all) how often they used these materials. The majority of students (68.1%) relied on watching the podcasts but had low attendance rates compared to their podcast usage. The remainder of the students either rarely watched podcasts (19.6%) or somewhat used the podcasts (12.3%), but both had similar lecture attendance. Students that watched the videos more than their peers performed better than those who chose otherwise.\n\nOn June 27, 2016, Jonathan Bergmann, one of the originators of flipped learning, launched the Flipped Learning Global Initiative, led by Errol St.Clair Smith. On January 26, 2018 the Flipped Learning Global Initiative introduced its International Faculty, created to deliver a consistent standard of training and ongoing support to schools and school systems around the world.\n\nIn traditional schools, each topic in class receives a fixed amount of time for all students. Flipped mastery classrooms apply a mastery learning model that requires each student to master a topic before moving to the next one.\n\nMastery learning was briefly popular in the 1920s, and was revived by Benjamin Bloom in 1968. While it is difficult to implement in large, traditional classrooms, it has shown dramatic success in improving student learning. The mastery model allows teachers to provide the materials, tools and support for learning while students set goals and manage their time.\n\nMastery rewards students for displaying competence. Students who initially turn in shoddy work must correct it before moving on. Before flipping, mastery learning was impractical in most schools. It was not possible to give different lectures for different groups of students. Testing was also impractical, because fast-learning students could reveal the test to those who followed.\n\nIn a flipped mastery classroom, students view each lecture and work on each exercise or project when they have mastered the precursors.\n\nTim Kelly, winner of the Presidential Award for Mathematics and Science Teaching, adopted flipped mastery with his colleagues Corey Sullivan and Mike Brust. Sullivan estimated that 40 to 60 hours of work outside school for each of 12 units per course were required the first year. Another Presidential Award winner, Spencer Bean, converted after his daughter went through Kelly's class.\n\nFlipped mastery eliminates two other out-of-class routines: daily lesson planning and grading papers. The latter happens in class and in person. Replacing lectures with group and individual activities increases in-class activity. Every student has something to do throughout the class. In some classes, students choose how to demonstrate mastery—testing, writing, speaking, debating and even designing a related game. Learning Management Systems such as Moodle or ILIAS provide ways to manage the testing process. They create a different test for each student from a pool of questions. Advocates claim that its efficiency allows most students to do a year's work in much less time. Advanced students work on independent projects while slower learners get more personalized instruction. Some students might not get through the year's material, but demonstrated competence on the parts they did complete.\n\nStudents may be more likely to favor the Flipped Classroom approach once they have taken the time to personally participate in this specific type of learning course. In a prior pharmaceutics course, for instance, a mere 34.6% of the 19 students initially preferred the Flipped Classroom setting. After all of the students had participated in the Pharmaceutical Flipped Classroom course, the number of those favoring this method of learning increased significantly, reaching a total of 89.5%. Individuals interested in a more problem-solving, hands-on form of learning are more likely to benefit from Flipped Classroom, as it sways from a traditional lecture learning style. Students may initially have certain doubts or fears regarding the use of Flipped Classroom, including:\n\n\nFlipped Classroom is composed of various components, such as (this information only represents a few examples):\n\n\nIt has been determined, through several conducted experiments, that certain aspects of the Flipped Classroom approach are more beneficial to students than others. For instance, in a study conducted on the feedback received from students who had participated in a Flipped Classroom teaching module for college English reading, the following results were derived:\n\n\nFrom these specific statistics, it can be determined that students felt that their experience within the Flipped Classroom was greatly benefitted by certain aspects of the course (such as the learning guide provided), while other portions of the module may have been unnecessary or insignificant to their learning (such as the video form of the module).\n\nThere are various benefits attributed to the idea of utilizing the Flipped Classroom approach, some including:\n\n\nCritics argue the flipped classroom model has some consequences for both students and teachers.\n\nFor students, there exists a 'digital divide'. Not all families are from the same socio-economic background, and thus access to computers or video-viewing technology outside of the school environment is not possible for all students. This model of instruction may put undue pressure on some families as they attempt to gain access to videos outside of school hours\n\nAdditionally, some students may struggle due to their developing personal responsibility. In a self-directed, home learning environment students who are not at the developmental stage required to keep on-task with independent learning may fall rapidly behind their peers\n\nOthers argue that the flipped classroom leads to increased computer time in an era where adolescents already spend too much time in front of computer screens. Inverted models that rely on computerized videos do contribute to this challenge, particularly if videos are long.\n\nAdditionally, flipped classrooms that rely on videos to deliver instruction suffer some of the same challenges as traditional classrooms. Students may not learn best by listening to a lecture, and watching instructional videos at home is still representative of a more traditional form of teaching. Critics argue a constructivist approach would be more beneficial.\n\nTeachers may find challenges with this model as well. Increased preparation time is initially likely needed, as creating high quality videos requires teachers to contribute significant time and effort outside of regular teaching responsibilities. Additional funding may also be required to procure training for teachers to navigate computer technologies involved in the successful implementation of the inverted model.\n\nThe potential performance increase from flipped classrooms has been limited in some cases due to teacher and student unfamiliarity with the classroom setup. Some students do not completely understand the rationale behind the flipped classroom. Also, some students are unfamiliar with the arrangement of this education technique. Both of these things can affect the efficacy of the flipped classroom.\n\n\nInteractive method based on collaborative work that has proven effective in areas such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics (Dumont, 2014). Specifically consists of sharing with other students a different response to their own and explain the reasons that support the same to learn from each other. In this process the reasoning beyond the answers is analyzed.\n\nWhen the invested learning model is applied in a more advanced way. Educators begin by organizing content around specific goals. Students work on course content at their own pace and upon reaching the end of each unit, they must show mastery of learning objectives before moving on to the next topic and so on (Bergmann and Sams, 2013). Students can show evidence of their learning through videos, worksheets, experimental stories, programs, projects, examples, among others.\nThere are two challenges in the flipped-mastery model: the first is to deliver instruction to students when they have different levels of learning and understanding of the subjects. The second challenge is to carry out summative assessment when the student has to be evaluated more than once.\n\nThe combination of inverted learning and other pedagogical approaches such as adaptive learning can help educators obtain information from the areas of learning that dominate their students and those in which they still have deficiencies or need to improve. This knowledge can support the teacher in determining how to organize and manage class time in order to maximize student learning (Yilmaz-tuzun, 2008).\n\nA step forward in the flipped-mastery model would be to include gamification elements in the learning process. Gamification is the application of game mechanisms in situations not directly related to games. The basic idea is to identify what motivates a game and see how it can be applied in the teaching-learning model (in this case it would be Flipped-Mastery). The results of the Fun Theory research showed that fun can significantly change people's behavior in a positive sense, in the same way that it has a positive effect on education (Volkswagen, 2009).\n\nThere may also be a symbiosis or complementation between the flipped classroom technique and cooperative learning. Schoolwork, also commonly known as \"homework\", is done jointly and in cooperation with the group as the teacher moves the time spent explaining the subject to the flipped classroom method. In this way, the student has to assimilate and understand the content of more theoretical weight at home, through the recordings made by the teacher, and the time in class is dedicated to the development of tasks and problem solving and / or doubts through cooperative learning (Fortanet, González, Mira Pastor and López Ramón, 2013).\n\nThe qualities of a flipped classroom that are valuable for typical students can also benefit students with disabilities. Inclusive classrooms can be used to change perceptions and reduce the stigma students with disabilities experience. For example, a teacher can develop a lesson about social skills if it is an area of concern for a student diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "54337503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54337503", "title": "Forest of Reading Red Maple Award", "text": "Forest of Reading Red Maple Award\n\nThe Red Maple Award is an award in the Ontario Library Association (OLA) Forest of Reading Awards. The Red Maple Award celebrates fiction (since 1998) and non-fiction (every other year since 2005) Canadian books for grades 7-8 (12-14) every year. Out of a ten nominated books in each category students must read a minimum of five to vote for their favourite. The winner is chosen by the most popular book in all participating libraries, schools, groups, etc.\n\nThe 2017 Winner for fiction is \"Shooter\" by Caroline Pignat.\n\nThe 2017 Winner for non-fiction is \"Child Soldier: When Boys and Girls are Used in War\" by Michel Chikwanine, Jessica Dee Humphreys, & Claudia Dávila.\n\nFive years after the original Silver Birch Award was created an award for grades 7-9, the Red Maple Award was created. In 2005 a non-fiction subcategory of the Red Maple Award was created. It runs on all odd numbered years.\n\nThese are the books that were nominated for a Red Maple Award each year but were not chosen as a winner.\n\nThe books are ordered by year and the author's last name (Last name of first author if multiple).\n"}
{"id": "23214306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214306", "title": "Gymnasia Rehavia", "text": "Gymnasia Rehavia\n\nGymnasia Rehavia ( \"Gimnazya Rehavya\") is a high school in the Rehavia neighborhood in Jerusalem, Israel.\n\nGymnasia Rehavia was Jerusalem's first and the country’s second modern Jewish high school or gymnasium, after the Herzliya Hebrew Gymnasium in Tel Aviv. The school was first established in Jerusalem's Bukharan Quarter in 1909. The building on Keren Kayemet Street in the Rehavia neighborhood was built in 1928. Among its early teachers were Yitzhak Ben-Zvi, later the second president of Israel, and his wife Rachel Yanait.\n\nIn July 2009, the high school celebrated its centennial at an event attended by generations of alumni, many of whom are leading figures in Israeli society today.\n\n"}
{"id": "39943373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39943373", "title": "Inspiring Australia", "text": "Inspiring Australia\n\nInspiring Australia is an Australian national strategy for engagement with the sciences. Its goals include improving science communication and helping engage the Australian community with science. Inspiring Australia has rolled out a range of programs and expanded existing ones to help achieve its goals, including publishing reports from expert working groups, a Science Engagement Toolkit, Prime Minister's Prizes for Science and National Science Week.\n\nA similar initiative in the UK is the British Council, which runs science projects to communicate messages around exciting or topical scientific issues, focusing on science and sustainability.\n\nIn February 2010 Senator Kim Carr, the then Minister for Innovation, Industry, Science and Research launched the Inspiring Australia report at the Australian Science Communicators conference at the Australian National University in Canberra. The report detailed 14 recommendations to fulfill four overarching principles.\n\nThe Australian and state and territory governments agreed a shared Framework of Principles for Science Communication Initiatives \n\nInspiring Australia was included in the Australian Labor Party's Science for Australia's Future policy for the August 2010 federal election. During the campaign the Coalition also committed to funding the new initiative.\n\nIn May 2011 Minister Carr announced that \"Australians will be encouraged to study and excel in science and research through a new Inspiring Australia program in the 2011-12 Budget.\" The launch promised Inspiring Australia would coordinate the efforts of Australia’s research agencies, media outlets, universities, academies, professional bodies, the business sector, state-based science centres, museums, and community-based organisations. According to the departmental media release, the three-year $21 million Inspiring Australia program was designed to \"help bring science to every Australian, regardless of geography, ethnicity, age or social condition\".\n\nIn 2012 the new Minister for Science and Research, Senator Chris Evans, announced $5 million in grants for Inspiring Australia projects across the country.\n\nAt Science Meets Parliament in September 2012, Shadow Minister for Science Sophie Mirabella referred to the Inspiring Australia program as a bipartisan initiative.\n\nIn May 2013 Science In Public, a science communication agency based in Melbourne, Australia, created a web site for Inspiring Australia, featuring \"stories and ideas from Australia's science community, plus events and prize opportunities from around the country\". London-based ScienceRewired announced it was leading the Inspiring Australia funded development of a community component for the web site, to connect over 300 science professionals across Australia in conjunction with Australian Science Communicators and the Australian National Centre for Public Awareness of Science.\n\nIn June 2013 the Inspiring Australia funded BIG Science Communication Summit was held at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. The summit brought together more than 200 science communicators, policy makers and others for two days. The summit was a follow-up to the March 2011 Inspiring Australia Summit held in Melbourne.\n\nIn August 2013, in the lead up to the federal election, the Australian Academy of Science published an \"Election Policy\", urging \"the next Australian Government\" to treat the Academy's proposals as \"national priorities\", and recommending \"strengthening the Inspiring Australia National Science Communication Strategy\".\n\nAlready in the business of science communication for five years when Kim Carr launched Inspiring Australia, the independent, not-for-profit Australian Science Media Centre noted the Inspiring Australia report and strategy followed a similar report in the UK in 2008, A Vision for Science and Society, developed by the UK Department for Innovation, Universities and Skills, now the Department for Business Innovation and Skills.\n\nThe Australian Science Media Centre gathered together expert reaction to the launch of the report and strategy. In their editorial overview the Centre explained the Inspiring Australia report set out why effective communication of science was important for Australia.\n\nProfessor Graham Durant, Director of Questacon in Canberra, a lead author of the report, said the consultation around the strategy had found \"many excellent science communication initiatives from a vibrant and talented mix of participants across the country\", suggesting Inspiring Australia would help coordinate these activities.\n\nWilson da Silva, then Editor-in-Chief of \"COSMOS\" magazine and former president of the World Federation of Science Journalists argued science communication was an important and necessary component of science funding, and welcomed the report's key findings.\n\nDr Cathy Foley, physicist and President of the Federation of Australian Scientific and Technological Societies, said Inspiring Australia would unite the sector.\n\nAssociate Professor Sue Stocklmayer, Director of the Centre for the Public Awareness of Science at Australian National University, said while Inspiring Australia provided \"an agenda for sharing best practice, more focused outreach, and serious research into communication strategies\", this rhetoric needed to be appropriately resourced. She noted Australia’s national research priorities did not include science communication and urged the Government to add this to their list.\n\nProfessor Rob Morrison, science communicator and past presenter of \"The Curiosity Show\", called for more efforts helping people understand how science \"works\" to avoid confusions and misunderstandings over issues like \"climate change, stem cell research, inoculation programs, GM technology, the importance of peer-review and so on\". Morrison called for more publishing in the popular realm including \"field guides, text books, case studies and popular science books\".\n\nDr Susannah Eliott, CEO of the Australian Science Media Centre, welcomed the report and strategy, hoping it would change the culture which had led to much science communication becoming \"focussed on profile raising rather than the public’s need to know\". She also argued the report's assertion stating \"general mainstream media is not interested in science\" did not appear evidence-based and did not tally with the experience of the Science Media Centre.\n\nInspiring Australia initiated Expert Working Groups have delivered reports on science engagement issues relating to:\n\nIn June 2013 the Council for Humanities and Social Sciences released an Inspiring Australia funded report on industry and science engagement.\n\nInspiring Australia have funded a range of projects related to improving science engagement in Australia\n\n"}
{"id": "21475911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21475911", "title": "Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers", "text": "Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers\n\nThe Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers (IETE) is India's leading recognized professional society devoted to the advancement of science, technology, electronics, telecommunication and information technology. Founded in 1953, it serves more than 69,000 members through 59 centers/ sub centers primarily located in India (3 abroad) . The Institution provides leadership in scientific and technical areas of direct importance to the national development and economy.Association of Indian\nUniversities (AIU) has recognized AMIETE. Government of India has recognised IETE as a Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (SIRO) and also notified as an educational Institution of national eminence. The objectives of IETE focus on advancing electro-technology. The IETE conducts and sponsors technical meetings, conferences, symposia, and exhibitions all over India, publishes technical journals and provides continuing education as well as career advancement opportunities to its members.\n\nIETE today, is one of the prominent technical institution to provide education to working professionals in India and\nis fast expanding its wings across the country through its 61 Centres. Over the last 59 years, IETE has expanded its educational activities in areas\nof Electronics, Telecommunications, Computer Science and Information Technology.\nIETE conduct programmes leading to DipiETE equivalent to Diploma in Engineering,\nAMIETE equivalent to B Tech, ALCCS equivalent to M Tech. IETE has also started Dual\nDegree, Dual Diploma & Integrated programs from December 2011. AMIETE is recognized by the AICTE and Ministry of HRD, Government of India, as equivalent to B.E./B.Tech.\n\n"}
{"id": "5058645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5058645", "title": "International Conference on Information Systems", "text": "International Conference on Information Systems\n\nInternational Conference on Information Systems (ICIS) is an annual international conference for academics and research-oriented practitioners in the area of information systems. Previously known as the Conference on Information Systems (CIS), ICIS is the flagship conference of the Association for Information Systems, an international professional organization serving academics in information systems.\n\nICIS was founded in 1980 at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the first conference was held in Philadelphia the same year. Starting in 1990, when it had its first international venue in Copenhagen, ICIS has been traditionally held outside of North America regularly. ICIS currently rotates between the Americas (AIS Region 1), Europe/Middle East/Africa (AIS Region 2), and Asia/Australia (AIS Region 3). ICIS is usually scheduled in early December and lasts for four days.\n\nThe conference is preceded by the ICIS Doctoral Consortium, held off site, usually in a nearby resort. The consortium brings together senior faculty from Information Systems (many of whom were participants in past consortia) and ~40 doctoral students, selected from ~120 nominations (each university or institution is allowed to nominate only one participant).\n"}
{"id": "30177701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30177701", "title": "International Council for Traditional Music", "text": "International Council for Traditional Music\n\nThe International Council for Traditional Music (ICTM) is non-governmental organization focused on musicology and dance research. Founded in London on 22 September 1947, it publishes the \"Yearbook for Traditional Music\" once a year and the \"Bulletin of the ICTM\" three times a year. The organization was previously known as The International Folk Music Council (IFMC). In 1949, it helped found the UNESCO International Music Council and remains in formal consultative relationship with UNESCO. Since 2013, its president has been Salwa El-Shawan Castelo-Branco, director of the Instituto de Etnomusicologia – Centro de Estudos em Música e Dança at the Universidade Nova de Lisboa.\n\nICTM World Conferences have been held since 1948 and are presently biennial. In 2009, the site of the ICTM World Conference was Durban, South Africa, in 2011 it was St. John's Newfoundland, in 2013 Shanghai, China, in 2015 Astana, Kazakhstan, in 2017 Limerick, Ireland, and in 2019 it will be Bangkok, Thailand.\n\n\nThe Council is represented by individuals, called Liaison Officers, and representatives of organisations, called National and Regional Committees. They all act as links between the Council and the community of individuals and organizations involved with traditional music and dance in their country or region.\n\nAs of August 2017, the International Council for Traditional Music is officially represented in 128 countries or regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31850553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31850553", "title": "John Asimakopoulos", "text": "John Asimakopoulos\n\nJohn Asimakopoulos, born September 10, 1970, is a professor of sociology at the City University of New York-Bronx. He says he is a \"Scholar-Activist\" and \"Organic Intellectual\".\n\nAfter attending high school in Athens, Greece, Asimakopoulos returned to the United States. He attended Rutgers University (New Jersey) from 1989 to 1992, where he received a bachelor's degree in sociology and economics; from 1992 to 1993 receiving his master’s degree in economics; from 1993 to 1994 receiving his master’s degree in political science; and the sociology program at the CUNY Graduate Center for his Ph.D. from 1996 to 1999.\n\nAfter teaching as an adjunct professor at New Jersey and New York area universities, in 2004 he began as an assistant professor of social sciences at the City University of New York-Bronx. He came to public attention in 2006, when the City University of New York refused to renew his contract. Asimakopoulos alleged this was a political firing because of his outspoken libertarian socialist ideology. Asimakopoulos filed for arbitration which he consequently won in 2008 returning to his position.\n\nAsimakopoulos set up \"Theory in Action\", an interdisciplinary journal and sits on the editorial board of the \"Peace Studies Journal\". In 2010, Asimakopoulos launched a YouTube channel, \"Crushing Capitalism with Dr. Asimakopoulos\", commenting on academic topics and current events.\n\n, he was trying to start a new accredited graduate school based on the principles of critical pedagogy.\n\nAsimakopoulos coined the concept of \"Globally Segmented Labor Markets\" expanding theoretical work in the area of labor market segmentation.\n\nIn 2007 Asimakopoulos co-founded the Transformative Studies Institute (TSI), a progressive 501(c)(3) nonprofit educational think tank based in the United States., which has a YouTube channel and a Scribd channel. Asimakopoulos uploads activist videos to the YouTube channel. It \"was created to provide an inclusive educational space for research and practice for social justice by academics, community organizers, activists, and political leaders\".\n\n\nHis most recent books include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5397677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5397677", "title": "John G. Taylor", "text": "John G. Taylor\n\nJohn Gerald Taylor (18 August 1931 – 10 March 2012) was a British physicist and author.\n\nTaylor attended King Edward VI Grammar School, Chelmsford and Mid-Essex Polytechnic, before gaining MA (Cantab) and PhD degrees from Christ's College, Cambridge (1950–1956). He had a wide-ranging academic career in mathematical physics and artificial intelligence. He was an emeritus professor and Director of the Centre for Neural Networks at King's College London and guest scientist of the Research Centre at the Institute of Medicine in Jülich, Germany. From 2007 to 2012, Taylor led a unique research program at Commerzbank's Alternative Investment Strategies (COMAS) Group. The program used artificial intelligence techniques to create portfolios of hedge funds. This is the first program of its kind in the fund of hedge funds industry.\n\nIn 2011, Taylor co-founded Commonwealth Capital Management LLP together with Nathaniel Philip Rothschild and Mehraj Mattoo. The company launched its first systematic fund of CTAs on Deutsche Bank's dbSelect platform based on Taylor's artificial intelligence models developed while he worked at COMAS.\n\nHis previous positions and interests, while still at King's College, were in mathematics and physics. He was the author of many popular books.\n\nTaylor also trained as an actor and performed in plays and films, wrote several science fiction plays and directed stage productions in Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nTaylor, after witnessing spoon bending by Uri Geller, became interested in parapsychology. At first he believed that Geller's feats as well as other alleged paranormal phenomena were genuine. He wrote a book titled \"Superminds\" (1975) in which he argued for a physical explanation for the paranormal. He believed the explanation for extrasensory perception, psychokinesis, spoon bending and other paranormal phenomena may be found in electromagnetism. However, experiments that he conducted under laboratory conditions were negative which left him sceptical regarding the validity of paranormal phenomena.\n\nTaylor had tested children in metal bending. According to Martin Gardner the controls were inadequate as the children would put paper clips in their pockets and later take one out twisted or be left with metal rods unobserved. James Randi managed to bend an aluminium bar when Taylor was not looking and scratch on it \"Bent by Randi\". In other experiments two scientists from Bath University examined metal bending with children in a room which was secretly being videotaped through a one-way mirror. The film revealed that the children bent the objects with their hands and feet. Due to the evidence of trickery, Taylor concluded metal bending had no paranormal basis.\n\nTaylor wrote that the physicalist explanation in which properties of objects have been explained in terms of their constituents has been most successful in science. The forces holding them together are gravity, radioactivity, electromagnetism and the nuclear force. Taylor wrote that only one force could possibly explain alleged paranormal phenomena: electromagnetic forces acting on the normal constituents of bodies. Taylor wrote that when science faces up to the supernatural it is a case of \"electromagnetism or bust\". In a four-year investigation into the paranormal, Taylor and his colleague Eduardo Balanovski searched for abnormal electromagnetic signals in parapsychological experiments. Electromagnetic and radio-wave detectors were used but no abnormal electromagnetic signals or paranormal effects were observed.\n\nTaylor wrote that an unknown fifth force causing psychokinesis would have to transmit a great deal of energy. The energy would have to overcome the electromagnetic forces binding the atoms together. The atoms would need to respond more strongly to the fifth force while it is operative than to electric forces. Such an additional force between atoms should therefore exist all the time and not during only alleged paranormal occurrences. Taylor wrote there is no scientific trace of such a force in physics, down to many orders of magnitude; thus if a scientific viewpoint is to be preserved the idea of any fifth force must be discarded. Taylor concluded there is no possible physical mechanism for psychokinesis and it is in complete contradiction to established science.\n\nIn his book \"Science and the Supernatural\" (1980) Taylor concluded that all the paranormal phenomena he investigated turned out to have a naturalistic scientific explanation or did not occur under careful controlled conditions. He wrote many of the results could be explained by fraud, credulity, fantasy and sensory cues. Critics have pointed out that the conditions of any experiment can be labeled as not carefully controlled enough, and have likened such requests for an infinite number of increasingly controlled experiments to the anti-evolutionist requests for an infinite number of transitional fossils. Critics have also pointed out that many of the so-called naturalistic scientific explanations were merely materialist hypotheses with many assumptions that could theoretically explain the phenomena but that were not accordingly scientifically tested and proven to be correct, while many of the paranormal effects were in fact well above the chance level so that such materialist explanations were in fact less likely according to probability.\n\nHe is author of the following books:\n"}
{"id": "5906752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5906752", "title": "Journal of College Student Development", "text": "Journal of College Student Development\n\nThe Journal of College Student Development is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 1959 and is the official publication of American College Personnel Association - College Student Educators International. The journal publishes scholarly articles and book reviews from a wide variety of academic fields related to college students and student affairs. The journal is published by the Johns Hopkins University Press and the editor-in-chief is Debora L. Liddell (University of Iowa).\n\n"}
{"id": "6157112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6157112", "title": "Katti Anker Møller", "text": "Katti Anker Møller\n\nKatti Anker Møller (23 October 1868 – 20 August 1945) was a Norwegian feminist, children's rights advocate, and a pioneer of reproductive rights. \n\nShe was born Cathrine Anker in Hamar, the daughter of Herman Anker. She had nine siblings and grew up around the first folk high school at Sagatun in Hamar, which was founded by her father. Educated as a teacher, she spent a year in France, where her exposure to the life of prostitutes and single mothers affected her profoundly. Her mother died at the age of 50, apparently exhausted from her many pregnancies though the number of children she had was normal for her time. \nShe married her cousin Kai Møller from Thorsø Manor (\"Thorsø herregård\") in Torsnes in 1889, with whom she had three children. Among themwere the physician Tove Mohr, whose daughter Tove Pihl has carried on the pro-choice activism in Norway. Møller took an early interest in the dangers of too many childbirths, and the plight of unmarried women and their children. Her modus operandi was to travel and give lectures in local meetings, a revolutionary approach for a woman of her time. \n\nIn collaboration with her brother-in-law Johan Castberg, she worked tirelessly to legislate the rights of children born out of wedlock. This culminated in the institution of the so-called Castberg laws passed by the Norwegian parliament in 1915. These laws were revolutionary in their time in giving illegitimate children full rights of inheritance and the right to use their father's surname.\nShe then turned her attention to decriminalizing abortion in Norway, an idea she presented through a lecture called \"the liberation of motherhood,\" with the subtitle \"the production of children under culture, the woman's right to decide over her own body.\" This was met with broad opposition, also from women.\nShe was not dissuaded and continued her efforts, adding birth control to her causes. In spite of opposition from opinion leaders such as Sigrid Undset, she managed to establish the first \"hygiene office\" in Oslo to inform women on contraception. \nThe Norwegian National Women's Council (\"Norske Kvinners Nasjonalråd\") was founded in 1904 as an umbrella organization for various Norwegian women's associations. She served as a member of the organization together with fellow rights activists Karen Grude Koht, Fredrikke Marie Qvam, Gina Krog and Betzy Kjelsberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "568014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568014", "title": "Korean Teachers and Education Workers Union", "text": "Korean Teachers and Education Workers Union\n\nThe Korean Teachers and Education Workers Union (KTU, ), also known as Jeongyojo (; acronym for \"KTU\" in Korean language) is a labor union of teachers in South Korea. The organization has 77,000 members (down from 94,000) among the 360,000 public and private school teachers in the country.\n\nThe KTU was founded in 1989 under opposition from the South Korean government. In response to its founding, several thousand members were subsequently fired by the education authorities. The KTU finally received official recognition in 1999 after the election of Kim Dae-Jung and many of the dismissed teachers were allowed to return to their former positions.\n\nA major contributor to the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, the KTU is criticized for promoting pro-North Korea ideology as well as disseminating \"anti-American\" propaganda.\n\nBy 2009, the KTU's ranks had dwindled, possibly due to parental and public opposition to its non-education-related political activities. A series of scandals also deeply undermined the union's credibility, including the attempted cover-up of a sexual assault on one of its members, as well as the sexual harassment of trainee teachers by KTU members.\n\nIn July 2009, the KTU's offices were raided by police on charges of issuing an anti-government statement allegedly in violation of the Civil Servants Law and the Educational Workers Labor Union Act, which bans political activities for teachers' unions on matters unrelated to working conditions. Union officials protested the investigation for being politically motivated. Per request by the KTU, the Education International, a multinational federation of teachers' unions, protested the investigations in a formal letter.\n\nOn April 2010, New Right politician Cho Jun-hyuk revealed the list of teachers who are affiliated with the KTU. This has led to a series of court decisions against him. This has later backfired as the KTU sought to file compensations against him.\n\nOn February 2011, the Seoul Metropolitan Education Board approved two KTU-affiliated school principals that caused controversies in their admission process.\n\nOn May 2011, KTU sued Gyeonggi-do regional politician Bak Gwang-jin, for releasing a list of teachers affiliated with the KTU.\n\nOn May 16, 2011, the head of a conservative parents' interest group \"Gyohakyeon\" (교육과 학교를 위한 학부모 연합) sent letters to approximately 60,000 KTU-affiliated teachers \"to resign their affiliation with KTU\".\n\nOn December 9, 2011, the Incheon District Court released an official statement that the decision made by the Superintendent of Incheon Metropolitan Office of Education to penalize KTU-affiliated teachers for donating \"illegal\" funding to the Democratic Labor Party is unconstitutional.\n\nThe South Korean Parents' Association for Reviving Public Education is a well-known opposition group against the KTU.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26557458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26557458", "title": "Lack of physical education", "text": "Lack of physical education\n\nLack of physical education is the inadequacy of the provision and effectiveness of exercise and physical activity within modern education.\n\nWhen physical education fails to meet its goals of providing students with the knowledge base, life habits, and mindset necessary to be physically active throughout their lifetime, it can lead children to adopt a sedentary lifestyle. According to a 2010 study by the WHO, 81% of children aged 11–17 worldwide did not meet the minimum recommended exercise guidelines of 60 minutes daily.\n\nAlthough more prevalent in countries of high income, physical inactivity is an international issue that is correlated with an obesity epidemic and negative physical, psychological, and academic consequences in children.\n\nA high quality physical education programs consists of these attributes:\n\n\nThe causes of lack of physical education vary from country to country. These include a shortage in facilities and equipment, a paucity of physical education teachers, large class sizes, and budgetary constraints. In some African countries such as Botswana and Malawi, where children attend school for a minimal amount of time, the budgets allocated for physical education are instead used to concentrate on subjects such as languages and mathematics. \n\nA lack of physical education also arises from cultural views: in parts of Central America (such as the Bahamas) and Asia (such as Pakistan), exercise is seen as a form of leisure that should not be featured in an academic curriculum. Another example exists in India, where girls are often discouraged from engaging in sports because such activity is viewed as \"unfeminine\", as is the possibility of them becoming too muscular.\n\nMoreover, a lack of governmental legislation and intervention can be to blame. In parts of South America (with the exception of Chile and Colombia), there are no laws that make physical education compulsory: thus, it is omitted from many schools.\n\nIn other cases, such as in areas of the United States, the mandated physical education hours are simply not met. For example, in 33 states, students are permitted to be exempt from physical education courses by replacing them with other activities such as marching band practices.\n\nOutside of school, children often fail to engage in physical activity due to lack of physical literacy, inadequate sleep, the increasing attractiveness of rival pastimes such as video games, and parents that do not play their part. It is important that parents allow their children the full opportunity to participate in both formal and informal sports and promote healthy physical activity levels. Also, in achievement-oriented populations such as those seen in China, there is an increased emphasis on academic results which also detracts from physical activity time.\n\nThe deterioration of physical education in schools combined with the elimination of playgrounds and other play facilities forces children to stay inactive and inside for most of the school day which can have serious long-term consequences.\n\nAn increase in sedentary lifestyle due to a lack of physical education at home and at school has many physical and psychological consequences on a child in the short and long term.\n\nAccording to a Portuguese study, children with sedentary lifestyles have nine times poorer motor coordination than active children of the same age. They also have worsened bone density, strength, and flexibility. In the long term, they are more likely to use tobacco, alcohol, and drugs than their active peers.\n\nSedentary behaviour is strongly associated with obesity, and this imparts a great health risk. Obese children are more likely to have high blood pressure, heart disease, high LDL cholesterol, Type 2 diabetes mellitus, sleep apnea, menstrual cycle abnormalities, bone and joint problems, increased cancer risk, and reduced balance. They are also more likely to be obese adults.\n\nChildhood physical inactivity has been correlated to cholesterol and fatty streaks in the aorta in the first decade of life and moves to the heart, brain, and other parts of the body in the second and third decade of life, causing health issues.\n\nA lack of physical activity is one of the main causes for obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and other physical health issues among children and adolescents.\n\nThere is a direct correlation between active participation in physical activity and the health of school age children, therefore a lack of physical education would cause a lack in physical activity in children, leading to worse health.\n\nAs exercise is known to improve well-being and reduce stress, physical inactivity is correlated with poor psychological health such as an increase of major depression. There is a link between obesity and psychiatric illness and the two feed on each other in a vicious cycle.\n\nA lack of physical activity is associated with poorer concentration and academic performance, particularly in mathematics and reading.\n\nObesity induced from lack of exercise also contributes to a decrease in general mental health. Overweight children and teens are more likely to suffer from poor self-esteem, negative body image, teasing, and bullying.\n\nHigher levels of sedentary and lower levels of physical education are linked to worse mental health and lower cognitive function among children.\n\nThe majority of Canadian children aged 5 to 17 years old (91%) do not meet the daily physical activity recommendations. Although Canadian physical education programs are improving significantly, with 61-80% of schools offering a minimum of 150 minutes of physical education classes per week in 2016, and participation levels in organized sport are on the rise, Canadian school programs are ineffective in encouraging healthy habits. In fact, most Canadian children (56%) lack physical literacy. Consequently, they face many issues related to lifestyle. These include sedentary behaviours such as increased screen time averaging 176 minutes a day from TVs and video games to the detriment of active play. There is also the inevitable decrease in active transportation, more sleep deprivation, and a poor quality of diet.\n\nThese lifestyle trends have caused youth obesity rates to nearly triple over the past 30 years. In 2013, this consisted of 28% of Canadian children ages 5–19 that were classified as overweight or obese.\n\nThe Canadian Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance (CAHPERD) has recommended that Canadian schools and school boards take action through specific academic initiatives to ensuring that their physical education curriculum is effective at encouraging and instilling healthy exercise habits in young Canadians. CAHPERD has suggested that schools focus on checking the quality (adequate facilities, budget and research-verified techniques) and quantity (minimum 30 minutes a day) of a school's physical education courses as well as the professional qualifications of the educators. The consultants should check that classes meet the needs of all students irrespective of race, sex, gender, and ability level. The courses should also encourage participation and skill development, with a healthy balance of competitive and noncompetitive activities. Moreover, it is of utmost importance that physical activity and physical education be encouraged by the teacher: they should never be used to punish a student (such as what is seen through the common practice of making children run if they misbehave). Outside of class hours, CAHPERD recommends that schools provide opportunities for intramural activities and involve parents in the fitness initiative.\n\nThe Pan-Canadian Public Health Network first decided to prioritize the issue of childhood obesity in September 2010 by creating the framework \"Curbing Childhood Obesity: An overview of the Federal, Provincial and Territorial Framework for Action to Promote Healthy Weights.\" In this project, federal, provincial and territorial Ministers of Health agreed to focus on three goals: increasing the predominance of nutritious food choices, addressing obesity at an early age, and creating better spaces for children that favour physical activity and healthy eating. This has allowed the action plan \"Towards a Healthier Canada\" to be created.\n\nThe Canadian Physical Activity guidelines for children ages 5 to 17 consist of at least 1 hour of daily physical activity. Their exercise should range in intensity from moderate (inducing light perspiration and harder breathing) to vigorous (inducing heavy perspiration and heavy breathing). Examples of moderate exercise include bike riding and playground activities, and examples of vigorous exercise include running and swimming. It is recommended that they engage in both vigorous activities and activities strengthening bone and muscles at least three times a week.\n\nThe Canadian Society for Exercise Physiology also recommends that children ages 5 to 17 limit their sedentary activities, such as television and video games, sedentary transport, and extensive sitting. It is advised that children limit their recreational screen time to a maximum of 120 minutes a day.\n\nThe \"Childhood Obesity Foundation\", a Canadian initiative, has invented the 5-2-1-0 mnemonic to remember the national lifestyle recommendations. This consists of 5 servings or more of vegetables and fruit per day, no more than 2 hours of screen time a day, 1 hour of physical activity or more per day, and 0 sugary drinks.\n\nSince the inception of \"Towards a Healthier Canada\", many initiatives have been launched to meet the three goals, and they vary from province to province. They are projects made in the name of a framework or jurisdictional approach/governmental department that are either targeted at schools, at a community, or in partnership with other organizations or companies.\n\nNearly 10 million children and adolescents in the United States ages 6–19 are considered overweight because the lack of physical education in schools. Children aged 6–11 have also more than doubled in rate of obesity over the last twenty years. \n\nIndividual states have set requirements for physical education in their schools, but how physical education is conducted across the country has not been established. Yet, physical education has been a common practice of the K-12 education curriculum in the United States.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act has created an environment in which physical education, art and music have been left behind, viewed as \"nonessential\" courses. Federal funding is more dependent on schools enhancing their math and reading programs.\n\nOne program the United States has adopted to decrease obesity are before-school exercise programs with elementary aged children. One in particular consists of reaching 100 miles before the end of the school year. Each milestone of 25 miles the child will earn a check mark on a tee-shirt. They will then be rewarded at 100 miles with a trophy and an announcement over the school loudspeaker. Walking is supervised by teachers and done around school grounds or inside the school. This is a great way for a child to improve health, concentration, confidence and happiness.\n\nThroughout the past two decades, federal support for physical education in the public health sector has increased dramatically. Since 1992, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has funded state education agencies to get them to partner with state health departments to promote physical activity and healthy eating in schools among young people. \n\nIn February 2010, first lady Michelle Obama started the \"Let's Move\" initiative to address the childhood obesity epidemic. Efforts to engage in schools to fight against childhood obesity were taken within 1 year of establishing the program. \n\nBudget cuts in the United States have led to less funding and support for physical education because it is not a \"core\" subject. \n\nEven though obesity has increased among most of the population in China, the burden of obesity has shifted onto the lower educated population, likely due to a lack of physical education or health education.\n\nStudents in China are beginning to gain equal opportunities to physical education and sports to further improve their physical health and strength.\n\nSport and physical education in China is extremely influenced by Confucianism which emphasizes collectivism. The values it holds emphasizes self-sacrifice and subordination of one's interests to those of others.\n\nIn 2011, The Chinese Ministry of Education has developed standards for physical education in schools. These emphasize enhancing children's health development is the primary goal of physical education in schools. These standards include: \n\n\n\n\n\nThe General Administration of Sport in China has been one of the leading government agencies that promotes the development of physical education and physical health in the elementary and college levels.\n\nThe government has for the most part supported physical education and sport in school, but has often abused it as a political tool which leads to ignoring its importance and the needs of individual students.\n\nIn the EU, physical education is a mandatory subject in general education. The time dedicated to physical education varies greatly from country to country.  About half of EU countries devote 10% of their school curriculum to physical education. Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia devote 15%, while Ireland only 4%.\n\nOut of all EU countries, France devotes the most time to physical education in elementary school, a total of 108 hours, which is only 10% of the total teaching time.\n\nThe primary education designers in European countries view physical education as less important than other subjects.\n\nPhysical inactivity is responsible for over 500,000 deaths per year in the European Union and accounts for economic costs of over €80 billion per year.\n\nFunding for physical education in EU schools is poor, which has led to poor quality physical education. This lack of funding is reflected in poor quality and lack of equipment at EU schools in respectively 26% and 38% of EU countries.\n\nIn 2007, the European Parliament's Resolution on the Role of Sport in Education helped parliament conclude that physical education is “the only school subject which seeks to prepare children for a healthy lifestyle and focuses on their overall physical and mental development, as well as imparting important social values such as fairness, self-discipline, solidarity, team spirit, tolerance and fair play…” and one of the most important tools for social integration.\n\nEuropean Parliament's Resolution places physical education on the European political agenda, highlighting its importance.\n\nThe European Physical Education Association recommends daily physical education in elementary grades up to 11 or 12 years of age and 3 hours per week in post-elementary and high school grades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17258963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17258963", "title": "List of Iraqi technical colleges and institutes", "text": "List of Iraqi technical colleges and institutes\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "233050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233050", "title": "Listening", "text": "Listening\n\nListening is giving one's attention to sound, for example speech, music or natural sounds. Listening involves complex affective, cognitive, and behavioral processes. Effective processes include the motivation to attend to others; cognitive processes include attending to, understanding, receiving, and interpreting content and relational messages; and behavioral processes include responding with verbal and nonverbal feedback.\n\nListening differs from obeying. A person who receives and understands information or an instruction, and then chooses not to comply with it or to agree to it, has listened to the speaker, even though the result is not what the speaker wanted. Listening is a term in which the listener listens to the one who produced the sound to be listened.\n\nSemiotician Roland Barthes characterized the distinction between listening and hearing as \"Hearing is a physiological phenomenon; listening is a psychological act.\" Hearing is always occurring, most of the time subconsciously. In contrast, listening is the interpretative action taken by the listener in order to understand and potentially make meaning out of the sound waves. Listening can be understood on three levels: alerting, deciphering, and an understanding of how the sound is produced and how the sound affects the listener.\n\nAlerting, the first level, is the detection of environmental sound cues. While discussing this level, Barthes mentions the idea of territory being demarcated by sounds. This is best explained using the example of one's home. One's home, for instance, has certain sounds associated with it that make it familiar and comfortable. An intrusion sound (e.g. a squeaking door or floorboard, a breaking window) alerts the dweller of the home to the potential danger.\n\nDeciphering, the second level, describes detecting patterns in and interpreting sounds. An example of this level is that of a child waiting for the sound of his mother's return home. In this scenario the child is waiting to pick up on sound cues (e.g. jingling keys, the turn of the doorknob, etc.) that will mark his mother's approach.\n\nUnderstanding, the third level of listening, means knowing how what one says will affect another. This sort of listening is important in psychoanalysis. Barthes states that the psychoanalyst must turn off their judgement while listening to the analysand in order to communicate with their patient's unconscious in an unbiased fashion.\n\nHowever, in contrast to the distinct levels of listening listed above, it must be understood that they all function within the same plane, and sometimes all at once. Specifically the second and third levels, which overlap vastly, can be intertwined in that obtaining, understanding and deriving meaning are part of the same process. In that the child, upon hearing the doorknob turn (obtaining), can almost automatically assume that someone is at the door (deriving meaning).\n\nAlong with speaking, reading, and writing, listening is one of the \"four skills\" of language learning. All language teaching approaches except for grammar-translation incorporate a listening component. Some teaching methods, such as Total Physical Response, involve students simply listening and responding.\n\nA distinction is often made between \"intensive listening\", in which learners attempt to listen with maximum accuracy to a relatively brief sequence of speech, and \"extensive listening\", in which learners listen to lengthy passages for general comprehension. While intensive listening may be more effective in terms of developing specific aspects of listening ability, extensive listening is more effective in building fluency and maintaining learner motivation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42730512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42730512", "title": "Lorenzo Relova", "text": "Lorenzo Relova\n\nLorenzo Relova (January 20, 1916 – April 23, 2014) was a Filipino judge who served as the 103rd Associate Justice of the Supreme Court from May 14, 1982, until January 19, 1986, during the Marcos era. He was the country's oldest living Supreme Court justice at the time of his death in 2014.\n\nRelova was born on January 20, 1916, in Pila, Laguna, Philippines. His father, Jose Diaz Relova, was the first lawyer to practice in Pila and uncle Regino Diaz Relova was a lieutenant colonel in the Katipunan in the province of Laguna, Philippines.\n\nLorenzo Relova taught as a law professor at Ateneo Law School for more than forty years. In 2012, he was inducted into the university's Professors of Law Hall of Fame.\n\nRelova died on April 23, 2014, at the age of 98. A memorial was held at Magallanes Church in Makati City.\n"}
{"id": "35841905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35841905", "title": "Madhupur Rani Bhabani Model High School", "text": "Madhupur Rani Bhabani Model High School\n\nMadhupur Rani Bhabani High School () also known as Madhupur Rani Bhabani Pilot High School is a high school located in Madhupur Upazila, Tangail, Dhaka, Bangladesh. The school offers education for students ranging from six to Secondary School Certificate (approximately ages 7 to 15).The school is under the direct control of the Ministry of Education\n\nMadhupur Rani Bhabani High School is one Km from Madhupur bus stand, 45 km from Tangail, Mymensingh and Jamalpur district headquarters and 135 km from Dhaka city.The school is situated by the side of Tangail-Mymensingh highway.\n\nMadhupur Rani Bhabani High School's results from 2007 to 2010 for the Secondary School Certificate level examinations are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "32046719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32046719", "title": "Marianne Williams", "text": "Marianne Williams\n\nMarianne Williams, together with her sister-in-law Jane Williams, was a pioneering educator in New Zealand. They established schools for Māori children and adults as well as educating the children of the Church Missionary Society (CMS) in the Bay of Islands, New Zealand. The Māori women called her \"Mata Wiremu\" (Mother Williams).\n\nMarianne Williams, née Marianne Coldham, was born in Yorkshire, England 12 December 1793. Marianne was the oldest child of Wright and Anne Coldham. Wright Coldham and Thomas Williams (Marianne’s father-in-law) were hosiers in Nottingham, and both were Sheriffs. The family had moved to Nottingham from Norwich. Her father, Wright Coldham, was an active member of the Presbyterian High Pavement Chapel in Nottingham. Wright Coldham received recognition as a Burgess of Nottingham in 1796; as a Sheriff of Nottingham in 1798; and as the Mayor of Nottingham in 1809. In 1810 Anne Coldham died and at the age 16 Marianne took over raising her three sisters, Sarah, Maria and Anne, her blind grandmother Mrs Temple, the running of the mayoral household and acting as Lady Mayoress at civic events. In 1815 Wright Coldham died.\n\nMarianne and Henry Williams were married on 20 January 1818 by Henry’s cousin and brother-in law, the Rev. Edward Marsh, a member of the Church Missionary Society.\n\nMarianne and Henry shared a Christian faith and they joined the Church Missionary Society (CMS), with the decision eventually being made that Henry would become an ordained minister and CMS missionary in the Bay of Islands, New Zealand. In a letter to the Committee of the CMS of 6 August 1822, Henry said of Marianne: \"she does not accompany me merely as my wife, but as a fellow-helper in the work\".\n\nOn 11 September 1822 Henry and Marianne and three children embarked on the \"Lord Sidmouth\", a ship carrying women convicts to Port Jackson, New South Wales, Australian.\n\nAfter a short stay with Rev. Samuel Marsden, he accompanied them on ship the \"Brampton\" from Sydney to the Bay of Islands, New Zealand where they arrived at Kerikeri on 7 August 1823.\n\nThe CMS had an established mission at Kerikeri where they stayed while Henry and other CMS members and built a store of plank and timber and a raupo hut on Paihia beach. On 15 September 1823 the family moved into the raupo hut, which Marianne described as having the appearance of a beehive. In 1830 a more substantial house was built using lath and plaster.\n\nChickens, ducks, goats and a horse were brought from Sydney. A garden was soon cultivated. Food was either cultivated or imported on the infrequent ships from Sydney. Pork and Kumera could be traded from the Māori, however in the early days muskets were the item of barter which Māori wanted to trade, but Henry Williams refused to trade muskets. The supply of pork and other food was withheld in an attempt to pressure Henry to trade muskets for food.\n\nThe members of the mission were under the protection of Hongi Hika, the rangatira (chief) and war leader of the Ngāpuhi iwi (tribe). The immediate protector of the Paihia mission was the chief Te Koki and his wife Ana Hamu, a woman of high rank and the owner of the land occupied by the mission at Paihia.\n\nIn 1827 Hongi Hika lead the Ngāpuhi against the tribes at Whangaroa which caused anxiety amongst the missionaries as they feared they would be caught up in the fighting. The fears of the missionaries were increased when some of the warriors of Hongi Hika, acting contrary to his orders, plundered and burnt the Wesleyan mission at Whangaroa. During a skirmish Hongi Hika was shot in the chest by one of his warriors, which resulted in the missionaries fearing that they would suffer in the event that a muru occurred following his death (an attack launched out of respect for a deceased chief). On 6 March 1828 Hongi Hika spent his last moments \"exhorting his followers to be valiant, and repel any force, however great, which might come against them - telling them this was all the utu, or satisfaction, that he desired\".\n\nThe death of Tiki, a son of Pōmare I (also called Whetoi) and the subsequent death of Te Whareumu in 1828 threw the Hokianga into a state of uncertainty as the other Ngāpuhi chiefs debated what revenge was required. Henry was asked to mediate between the combatants. As the Ngāpuhi chiefs did not want to escalate the fighting, a peaceful resolution was achieved.\n\nIn 1830 there was a battle, at Kororareka (Russell), that is called the Girls' War, which also caused the missionaries to fear they would be caught up in the fighting.\n\nWhile there were misunderstandings and arguments between the missionaries and the Ngāpuhi, the CMS mission was never threatened.\n\nThe missionary work of Henry Williams and his attempts to act as peacemaker in intertribal conflicts meant that he spent months at a time travelling through the North Island of New Zealand. Marianne shared mission responsibilities with her sister-in-law, Jane Williams, together they cared for and educated their families. Together with Jane Williams, Marianne set up a boarding school for Māori girls; and provided classes to the children of CMS missionaries in the morning with schools for Māori children and adults in the afternoon. Schools were established in the communities inland from the Bay of Islands. Marianne trained and supervised the teachers, who were her daughters, nieces or future daughters-in-law.\n\nThe domestic responsibilities of Marianne extended beyond her large family and included Māori and Pakeha visitors to the mission as well as providing assistance to other CMS members in Paihia, Kerikeri and Waimate North. Marianne and Henry had eleven children:\n\n\nHenry and Marianne moved to Pakaraka when Henry refused to back down in an argument with Governor George Grey over the amount of land Henry had acquired so as to provide for his children. In this argument Bishop Selwyn took the side of Grey, and in 1849 the CMS decided to dismiss Henry from service. However, in 1854 Henry was reinstated to the CMS following representations to the CMS by Governor Grey, Bishop Selwyn and supporters of Henry Williams.\n\nHenry and Marianne lived in the house known as \"The Retreat\", that still stands at Pakaraka.\n\nMarianne Williams died at Pakaraka, New Zealand, on 16 December 1879 and was buried in the grounds of the Holy Trinity Church at Pakaraka alongside the grave of Henry Williams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25817320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817320", "title": "Medical Teacher", "text": "Medical Teacher\n\nThe Medical Teacher is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering educational topics for educators involved in training health professionals. It is published by Informa Healthcare in collaboration with the Association for Medical Education in Europe. The editor-in-chief is Ronald Harden. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 2.450.\n"}
{"id": "26597671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26597671", "title": "Milton Fisher Scholarship", "text": "Milton Fisher Scholarship\n\nThe Milton Fisher Scholarship for Innovation and Creativity is an annual four-year scholarship sponsored by the Renée B. Fisher Foundation and housed at the Community Foundation for Greater New Haven. Four-year scholarships of varying amounts based on need are awarded to high school juniors and seniors, and college freshmen, who will be attending a university in the Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan area.\n\nSince 2003, the Milton Fisher Scholarship has sought to reward students who have demonstrated exceptional originality in problem solving. In particular, applicants are those students who have:\n\nRecipients are selected on the basis of their applications, which include essays and letters of recommendation. The deadline for applications varies each year but is often in early to mid-April. \n\nThe scholarship is named for Milton Fisher, an attorney and investment banker from New York City who made his home in Connecticut from 1960 until his death in 2001. He served on the boards of several public companies, and was the author several books, including two about Wall Street. His book \"Intuition: How to Use it in Your Life\" has been translated into several languages.\n\nAdditionally, he was also deeply devoted to the development of original thinking and creative processes. For over 25 years, he taught a unique course for adults called \"Applied Creativity\", which focused less on creativity as expressed in the arts (as it is often understood), and more on helping people be more creative in all aspects of their lives, developing creative problem-solving skills and innovative approaches to challenges they faced individually, or that faced their community.\n\n"}
{"id": "46211882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46211882", "title": "Monster parents", "text": "Monster parents\n\nMonster parents (, ) is a term characterizing irrational parenting. Monster parents are known to raise their children with a \"bizarre blend of authoritarianism and overprotectiveness.\" They are overprotective by virtue of making numerous requests and complaints to their children's teachers, which themselves are often viewed as \"unreasonable.\" The phrase originated in Japan and gained widespread usage in Hong Kong. \n\nThe phrase \"monster parent\" was originally a Wasei-eigo term coined by Japanese educator Yōichi Mukōyama () in 2007. It was subsequently made known in Asia by a Japanese TV drama also called \"Monster Parents\". The show depicted a series of observations from real life situations in schools where parents of students often interfered in school affairs and teachers' teaching. The show was broadcast from July 1, 2008, to September 9, 2008. By 2011, the phrase had also seen widespread usage in Hong Kong as well.\n\nUnder the Hong Kong education system, most students are required to attend interviews that assess their academic and extracurricular achievements in order for them to attend academically prestigious schools. Most schools will select a group of academically gifted interviewees to attend. Because of this, parents have been observed to pressure their children to excel in school and extracurricular activities in order to get into their selected school. Once their children get into these schools, the parents may continue to voice complaints in order to make their concerns heard.\n\nMonster parents exhibit an authoritarian parenting style, forcing children to follow tight schedules with little time to manage their daily lives and routines. They are highly-protective in taking care of their children and are seen as restrictive and controlling. They often spoil their children in order to get them to do tasks that the parents wish them to do. According to Global Voices, Hong Kong has been a knowledge-based economic system since the early 2000s. This puts pressure on parents to ensure that their children excel in early childhood and gain acceptance into prestigious schools. The rise of monster parents has been thought to be caused by a decline in birth rate in recent years. Children are also coming from other parts of China, often called \"cross-border students,\" and attending schools that only Hong Kong children were originally allowed to attend.\n\nMonster parents are often identified as meeting four criteria, according to many that come in contact with them. They are first identified as having an intense need to control their children. This causes the children to develop an inability to think for themselves. Next, they often force their children to take part in activities that they do not necessarily like. This includes taking extra classes on top of their normal ones, and participating in extracurricular activities that they are not interested in. Third, monster parents look at academics before anything else regarding their children. If their children do poorly in school, monster parents blame it on everything but the children. Lastly, monster parents think that their children are right in everything they do. According to them, they can do no wrong.\n\nMonster parents often interfere in their children's personal life and tend to cosset them. As a result, these children often end up developing anti-social personality traits and attitudes and tend to be overly-reliant on their parents. A commonly-used term in Asia to describe this phenomenon is \"prince/princess sickness\". These children have also been seen to exhibit tendencies towards aggression and violence to get their way, according to some researchers.\n\nMonster parents tend to be very overprotective of their children and often coddle them for most of their childhood. Because of this, children of monster parents often grow up to exhibit bad behavior and narcissistic personality traits. Monster parents also place a great deal of pressure on their children to excel in school in order to be admitted into more prestigious schools. This places an enormous amount of pressure and stress on the children. Children have to handle a significant workload at school, which may be too intense for them to deal with. They are constantly expected to expand their knowledge and skills. Children of monster parents often feel depressed and disappointed in themselves if they fail to meet the expectations of their parents. This anxiety can build up in the children and cause severe mental illness. It may even lead to suicide.\n\nThere are foreseeable influences caused by monster parenting style. It may affect children’s academic developments and their future careers as well. With the monster parenting style, it is believed that the parents may have extremely high expectations about their children’s academic achievements. Indeed, children may appear to start feeling the pressure when they start failing to reach the high hopes and expectations of their parents while academic stress arises. Generally, the lack of independence may influence the children’s future career as there are no opportunities for them to practice and learn before entering the workplace. A good deal of how one parents is shaped by how they were parented. It is reasonable to assume that monster parenting style is a vicious cycle and becomes a long-term social issue. Parents wield enormous clout in the development of their children, as they are who the children look up to and learn from. Parenting patterns are passed down from generation to generation. Thus, excessively protective parenting style may influence more and more generation until there is an alternative parenting style to replace it.\n\n"}
{"id": "51425860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51425860", "title": "Most Likely to Succeed (film)", "text": "Most Likely to Succeed (film)\n\nMost Likely To Succeed is a feature-length documentary examining the history of education in the United States and revealing the growing shortcomings of conventional education methods in today’s innovative world. The film explores compelling new approaches that aim to transform learning as we know it.\n\nDirected by documentarian Greg Whiteley, the film has been an official selection of two dozen of the world’s top film festivals, including Sundance, Tribeca, and AFI DOCS. Since the film's release, more than 3,000 communities worldwide have shared a screening of \"Most Likely To Succeed\".\n\nOver a century ago, American education underwent a dramatic transformation as the iconic one-room schoolhouse evolved into an effective system that produced an unmatched workforce tailored for the 20th Century. As the world economy shifts and traditional white-collar jobs begin to disappear, that same system remains intact, producing potentially chronic levels of unemployment among graduates in the 21st Century.\nThe film follows students into the classrooms of High Tech High, an innovative new school in San Diego. There, over the course of a school year, two groups of ninth graders take on ambitious, project-based challenges that promote critical skills rather than rote memorization.\n\n\"Most Likely To Succeed\" has received critical praise, \"Education Week\" calling the film \"among the best edu-documentaries ever produced\" and \"The Hollywood Reporter\" remarking the movie is \"an engaging look\" at 21st-century education.\n\nFollowing the film's premiere, Executive Producer Ted Dintersmith took \"Most Likely To Succeed\" on a 50-state tour, screening the film for learning communities across the country. Dintersmith is now finishing a book inspired by his experiences of sharing the film in every state.\n\nRoss Kasun, 2017 New Jersey Superintendent of the Year, credits \"Most Likely To Succeed\" for driving change in his district, saying, \"It provided a compelling rationale on the new thinking needed for our schools and generated a wave of excitement across the district.”\n"}
{"id": "17926711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17926711", "title": "NATOPS", "text": "NATOPS\n\nThe Naval Air Training and Operating Procedures Standardization (NATOPS) program (pronounced \"NAY-Tops\") prescribes general flight and operating instructions and procedures applicable to the operation of all U.S. naval aircraft and related activities. The program issues policy and procedural guidance of the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (CMC) that is applicable to all U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps aviation personnel.\n\nEach NATOPS manual for each USN and USMC Type/Model/Series (T/M/S) of aircraft has the following statement:\n\nNATOPS was established by the United States Navy in 1961 as a positive approach towards improving combat readiness and achieving a substantial reduction in naval aircraft mishaps in both the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps.\n\nIn 1950, the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps lost a total of 776 aircraft (roughly two aircraft per day or a rate of 54 major mishaps per 10,000 flight hours). Numerous technical initiatives, including the angled flight deck on aircraft carriers in 1954 and various standardization programs, were credited with significantly reducing the rate to 19 major mishaps per 10,000 flight hours by 1961, and further to nine major mishaps per 10,000 flight hours by 1970 (the current rate, for comparison, is under two major mishaps per 10,000 flight hours).\n\nA lack of standardization and training in both aircraft maintenance and flight operations was cited as a causal factor in a large percentage of mishaps. Several standardization programs were initiated in the late 1950s and early 1960s to counter this problem. The first was the Naval Aviation Maintenance Program (NAMP) in 1959. Prior to the NAMP, aircraft maintenance practices were completely non-standardized across US naval aviation. For example, an aircraft maintenance procedure might be significantly different from one squadron to the next, even though both squadrons operated exactly the same T/M/S aircraft on the same base or in the same air group. The NAMP standardized maintenance procedures across all of naval aviation, or what has been termed since the early 2000s as the entire \"naval aviation enterprise\".\n\nThe second standardization initiative began in 1961 with the introduction of the fleet replacement squadron (FRS) program. The purpose of an FRS is to indoctrinate newly designated aircrew (naval aviators, naval flight officers, enlisted naval aircrewman) and aircraft maintenance personnel into the peculiarities of specific aircraft. Prior to the FRS concept, qualified pilots transitioning to a new aircraft were essentially told how to start it, and then sent to go fly. The final major standardization initiative put in place was the NATOPS program in 1961.\n\nNATOPS manuals contain standard flight doctrine and the optimum operating procedures for the aircraft model or aviation activity (e.g., CV NATOPS, LSO NATOPS, etc.) concerned. They do not include tactical doctrine.\n\nThere are numerous publications associated with NATOPS covering three basic areas:\n\n\nCompliance with stipulated manual procedures is mandatory, but deviations are allowed per the following statements found in all NATOPS manuals:\n\nIn order to remain effective, NATOPS must be dynamic and stimulate rather than suppress individual thinking. Since aviation is a continuing, progressive profession, it is both desirable and necessary that new ideas and new techniques be expeditiously evaluated and incorporated if proven to be sound. To this end, Commanding Officers of aviation units are authorized to modify procedures contained herein… for the purpose of assessing new ideas prior to initiating recommendations for permanent changes.\n\nHowever, [this manual] is not a substitute for sound judgment. Compound emergencies, available facilities, adverse weather or terrain, or considerations affecting the lives and property of others may require modification of the procedures contained herein. Read this manual from cover to cover. It is your responsibility to have a complete knowledge of its contents.\n\n[NATOPS] is not intended to cover every contingency that may arise nor every rule of safety and good practice. To achieve maximum value, the\ncontents of all directives cited must be studied and understood.\n\nThe \"3710\" or \"OPNAV 3710\", as it is commonly referred to, is issued by the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. Often called the \"General NATOPS\", it is the overarching document in the NATOPS program and it provides policy and procedural guidance applicable to a broad spectrum of users.\n\nAmong a variety of topics, 3710 covers:\n\nThese are manuals for specific aircraft models containing standardized ground and flight operating procedures, training requirements, aircraft limitations, and technical data necessary for safe and effective operation of the aircraft. There are typically several volumes, including supplements for weapons systems, performance charts, servicing checklist, and post maintenance functional checkflight checklist.\n\nNATOPS flight manuals are prepared using a concept that provides the aircrew with information for operation of the aircraft, but detailed operation and interaction is not provided. This concept was selected for a number of reasons: reader interest increases as the size of a technical publication decreases, comprehension increases as the technical complexity decreases, and accidents decrease as reader interest and comprehension increase. To implement this streamlined concept, observance of the following rules was attempted:\n\n\nMiscellaneous NATOPS manuals are issued for special aircraft-related operations or systems that require fleet-wide standardization. \nThey include:\n\n\nChanging NATOPS publications requires following a full approval process. Changes can be rapidly accomplished for urgent/safety of flight issues (via electronic directive to make pen and ink modifications to publications/procedures). There is also an annual conference for manual users (aircrew, maintenance personnel, engineers, policy makers, etc.) do deal with more routine/less urgent matters. These conferences produce a list of \"recommended changes\" that are then vetted by an approval process prior to promulgation.\n\nThe key people involved in NATOPS go from the Chief of Naval Operations all the way down to individual users.\n\n\nThe standard operating procedures prescribed in NATOPS manuals represent the optimum methods of operating various aircraft and related equipment. The NATOPS evaluation is intended to evaluate individual and unit compliance by observing and grading adherence to NATOPS procedures.\n\nIndividual pilots, flight officers or crewmembers are evaluated when initially qualifying (or requalifying after a non-flying assignment) in a given T/M/S aircraft, and a minimum of annually thereafter. Flight crews may also be evaluated prior to annually as part of a unit NATOPS evaluation administered by NATOPS evaluators. NATOPS exams consist of an open book examination, a closed book examination, an oral examination, and an evaluation flight or simulator check. Use of operational flight trainers (OFTs) / weapon system trainers (WSTs) is encouraged for simulated emergencies and scenarios that present significantly increased risk when actually performed in an aircraft. If no such flight simulator / training device is available, aircraft may be used. Evaluation flights in aircraft that require simulated emergencies are avoided.\n\nPrior to commencing the evaluation flight, an evaluee must achieve a minimum grade of qualified on both open book and closed book NATOPS examinations. The oral examination is also part of the ground evaluation, but may be conducted as part of the flight evaluation.\n\nA unit NATOPS evaluation is conducted for every squadron/unit every 18 months by the appropriate NATOPS evaluator(s). The unit NATOPS evaluation includes NATOPS evaluations for each crew position (ground evaluation and an evaluation flight) selected at random by the evaluator to measure overall adherence to NATOPS procedures. NATOPS evaluators will re-evaluate all squadron NATOPS Instructors during a unit NATOPS evaluation and will also select one flight crewmember from each aircraft position at random for a flight or simulator evaluation. For random evaluation check selectees who perform well beyond expectations, NATOPS evaluators may recommend to the squadron commanding officer that the individual be tracked for qualification and designation as a NATOPS instructor.\n\n"}
{"id": "15005773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15005773", "title": "Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test", "text": "Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test\n\nThe Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test (NNAT) is a nonverbal measure of general ability designed by Jack A. Naglieri and published by Pearson Education.\n\nThese tests may be administered to K–12 school children on an individual or group basis as a means to identify potentially gifted children for placement in accelerated programs.\n\nBeginning in the 2012-13 school year, the Naglieri Nonverbal Ability Test- 2nd Edition (NNAT-2) replaced the Bracken School Readiness Assessment (BSRA).\n\nThe decision sparked some degree of controversy The NNAT-2 is considered significantly harder than the Bracken School Readiness Assessment (BSRA) which it replaced. \n\nIn New York City, the NNAT-2 makes up 50% of the gifted and talented exam, the other 50% is the Otis–Lennon School Ability Test (OLSAT).\n\nThe NNAT has been found by one study to show excessive score variability, with within-grade standard deviations reaching as high as 20 points. This has the effect of both overrepresenting and underrepresenting index scores - that is, more students received very high or very low scores than expected. Lohman \"et al.\" found that 3.4 times as many students scored in the 130+ range on the NNAT as expected.\n\n"}
{"id": "1388668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388668", "title": "Permanent University Fund", "text": "Permanent University Fund\n\nThe Permanent University Fund (PUF) is a sovereign wealth fund created by the State of Texas to fund public higher education within the state. A portion of the returns from the PUF are annually directed towards the Available University Fund (AUF), which distributes the funds according to provisions set forth by the 1876 Texas Constitution, subsequent constitutional amendments, and the board of regents of the University of Texas System and the Texas A&M University System. The PUF provides extra funds, above monies from tax revenues, to the UT System and the Texas A&M System which collectively have approximately 50 percent of state public university students. The PUF does not provide any funding to other public Universities in the State of Texas.\n\nThe Permanent University Fund was established by the 1876 Constitution of the State of Texas. Initially, its assets included one-tenth of University of Texas at Austin lands bordering the railroads (UT Austin was granted in West Texas as compensation) as well as additional. In addition, the 1876 Constitution organized the University of Texas System, under which governance of Texas A&M University and UT Austin was placed. The original Constitution provided for preference in PUF investment in Texas and U.S. bonds. In 1883, Texas and Pacific Railroad returned , deemed too worthless to survey, to the State Government, which turned the land over to the PUF. Initially, the little revenue PUF earned from its lands were from grazing leases.\n\nThe terms of the annexation of the Republic of Texas in 1845 meant that Texas kept its public lands. The 1894 discovery of oil in Corsicana, Texas and the 1901 discovery of oil at Spindletop in Beaumont, Texas, began a subsequent oil boom in Texas and the western U.S. In 1901, the Texas Legislature authorized UT Austin to \"sell, lease and otherwise control\" oil and mineral rights for PUF land. In late 1916, after a report was submitted to the Land Commission of the UT Board of Regents, the Board forbade the sale of any University lands, including those of the PUF. On 28 May 1923, the Santa Rita No. 1 oil well, in Reagan County discovered the first oil on PUF land; in the following decades, the PUF's revenue made UT Austin among the best-endowed in the nation. In 1924, the UT Regent Robert Story requested that the legislature direct oil rights revenue directly into the Available University Fund; the 29th legislature complied on 3 April 1925 by passing House Bill 246. The March 10, 1926, Texas Supreme Court case \"State ex rel Attorney General, v. Hatcher,\" decided against State Treasurer W. Gregory Hatcher, who refused to comply with Attorney General Dan Moody's demands that oil rights revenue be placed into the PUF rather than the AUF. The Texas Supreme Court concluded that the 1876 Constitution directed subterranean revenue to be \"corpus of the estate\" rather than UT Austin disposable income.\n\nIn 1928, State Attorney General Claude Pollard issued a legal opinion that the UT Board of Regents could issue bonds against the AUF, the account that holds the annual distributions of the PUF. In 1931, the legislature authorized UT Regent-requested bonds to improve UT Austin's buildings and campus in general. As the provision was repealed in 1932, it granted the only time ever that PUF principal was spent. The AUF's distributions were directed, in 1931, by the legislature such that 2/3 of the money would go to UT Austin and 1/3 to Texas A&M, and also extended to be available for purchase of equipment and building construction. In 1947, after World War II and during the education boom from the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, a constitutional amendment was passed that authorized the issuance of $15 million in AUF bonds, $10 million to the UT System and $5 million to the Texas A&M System.\n\n1956 saw another amendment to the state constitution, this time setting the maximum bond issuance equal to the PUF's total asset value excluding land, as well as allowing Southwestern Medical School, Health Science Center at Houston, and M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, all of the UT System, access to AUF funds. In addition, the 1956 amendment guaranteed the 2/3 UT, 1/3 A&M AUF split that the Legislature had directed in 1931. In 1968, the PUF constitution was amended again to include a broader range of both corporate bonds and investments available to PUF, as well as applying a \"prudent person\" standard for some amendments.\n\nThe State Attorney General in 1978 issued an opinion that interest accruing in the PUF should be used to pay outstanding bonds and finance permanent educational improvements, per the PUF constitution. In 1984, the bond issuance capacity of the PUF was raised to 30% and the issuance of AUF funds was expanded to all existing University of Texas System and Texas A&M University System schools; another voter-approved amendment the same year authorized the creation of the Higher Education Assistance Fund, to help all public higher education institutions not covered by the PUF. As oil rights revenue was dropping from $262 million in 1981 to $57 million in 1995, the 1991 Texas Legislature reduced funding for the UT and Texas A&M University Systems by about one-quarter. This placed increased pressure for the PUF to make up much of the difference, even after the 1984 expansion of the PUF's list of beneficiaries. On 1 March 1996, the UT System Board of Regents authorized the nonprofit University of Texas Investment Management Company (UTIMCO) to manage UT System assets, including all of the PUF.\n\nA 1988 constitutional amendment eliminated all investment restrictions related to the PUF for the UT Board of Directors in favor of adopting the \"prudent person\" standard for all investments, which was subsequently amended in 1999 to the \"prudent investor\" standard for investments. Another 1999 statewide vote adopted an amendment that made further changes to the PUF. The first was that distributions to the AUF would equal both realized (income return) and unrealized (capital gains) PUF assets. The second directed payments to PUF expenses come from PUF assets; the third directed the establishment of an investment and return policy that would preserve both a stable AUF distribution and the real value of the investments.\n\nIn 2001, PUF annual distribution to the AUF was changed from 4.50% to 4.75%. On 7 February 2008, after months of study, the UT Board of Regents authorized an increase in AUF annual transfers, from 4.75% of the PUF value to 5.00%, citing recent PUF growth of more than 10% per year and unrest over the large annual increases in tuition at UT Austin. The Texas A&M System chancellor lauded the increased distribution, which now matched other Texas A&M endowment distributions.\n\nIn 1900, the Permanent University Fund earned approximately $40,000, mostly from grazing leases; by 1925, income had increased to $2,000 per day (about $700,000 per year), and by 1943 was just under $1 million per year. In the late 1950s, the PUF earned about $8,513,000 per year and was valued above $283,642,000; in 1990, the PUF was valued at $3,541,314,800 and earned $266,119,000 in income. Currently, PUF land assets deliver proceeds through oil, gas, sulfur, and water royalties, rentals on mineral leases, and gains on fiduciary investments. Grazing leases and other surface rights income are distributed to the AUF.\n\nAs of December 2008 figures, the PUF holds approximately $8.8 billion in investments and of land located in 21 counties, mostly in West Texas. Each year, five percent of the PUF's value is transferred to the AUF, which then distributes the money. The PUF exclusively serves institutions in the University of Texas System, which receives two-thirds of its proceeds, and the Texas A&M System, which receives the remaining one-third. As of 2008, the University of Texas System received the fifth-largest endowment in the nation, and the Texas A&M System received the tenth-largest. At one time, the PUF was the chief source of income for The University of Texas at Austin, but today its revenues account for less than twenty percent of the university's annual budgets. Of the 2007-08 year's $1 billion core academic budget of UT Austin, the AUF's funding accounted for $143 million.\nThe PUF's land assets are managed by the University of Texas System Administration. The PUF's fiduciary assets are managed by the University of Texas/Texas A&M Investment Management Company (UTIMCO), a nonprofit group formed to manage various assets of the UT and Texas A&M Systems and governed by a volunteer Board of Directors. The Board is composed of three members of the UT System Board of Regents, four members selected by the UT System Board of Regents, and two members selected by the Texas A&M University System Board of Regents. Of these, at least three of the members appointed by the UT System Regents and one appointed by the Texas A&M System Regents must be investment professionals. Additionally, the UT System chancellor is normally one of that system's seven representatives on the UTIMCO board. In addition, UTIMCO has a Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer appointed by the Board and a President appointed by the CEO and Board; all employees of UTIMCO except the nine-member Board of Directors receive a salary and are eligible for annual bonuses.\nIn February 2009, UTIMCO drew criticism from the state's legislative and executive branches for awarding bonuses to employees despite the global financial crisis of 2008–2009. Robert Rowling, chairman of UTIMCO and vice chairman of the UT Austin Board of Regents, insisted that the bonuses he authorized were for the fiscal year ending 31 July 2008, in which the PUF net fiduciary assets decreased by 3.26%, or $383 million, as compared to nearly 14% for the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The Chairman of the Board of Regents defended Rowling, stating that the contracts obligated bonus payment and the large amounts, $1.05 million for the UTIMCO CEO and $2.3 million for other employees combined, were fairly inflexible.\n\nGovernor Rick Perry and Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst criticized \"[W]e can’t imagine how such compensation is justified considering that in the same month this meeting was held, reports surfaced that UTIMCO’s earnings for the year had dropped an estimated 23 percent.\" Perry's spokeswoman attacked the contracts, stating, \"The compensation structure ought to incorporate the health of the fund, whereby incentives are not immediately paid out if the fund is in the red.\" State Senator Kevin Eltife criticized CEO Bruce Zimmerman's bonus. \"Most people out there on the street are scared to death and we just paid you a million-dollar bonus [...] If there's that much money floating around, maybe there's too much.\" After heated interrogation by the State Senate Finance Committee, Rowling resigned from both his chairmanship of UTIMCO and vice chairmanship of UT Austin's Board of Regents.\n\nThe following are all available beneficiaries, as of 2018, of the Available University Fund, which distributes the annual dividends and returns of the Permanent University Fund. The Texas Constitution (Article 7, Section 18) stipulates that most current institutions under the University of Texas System and Texas A&M System are eligible to receive PUF profits through the AUF, and that a two-third vote of each house in the State Legislature is necessary to create a new institution as part of either system, which would then be automatically eligible for funds.\n\nOther Texas public universities—notably all institutions in the University of Houston System, the University of North Texas System, the Texas State System, the Texas Tech System, and some UT System and Texas A&M System institutions—are prohibited by law from sharing the income from this endowment, but in 1984 a second fund was created to one day serve those schools: the Higher Education Fund (also known as the Higher Education Assistance Fund), a much smaller fund. Addition of the other university systems or individual institutions to the Permanent University Fund would require an amendment to the Texas Constitution or a two-thirds vote in the legislature.\n\nThe most recently added institution to the list of allowed institutions is the University of Texas Rio Grande Valley, which was founded in 2013 with the merger of the University of Texas–Pan American and University of Texas at Brownsville and began full operation in 2015. The predecessor schools were not eligible for PUF allocations, but the law that created UTRGV made the new institution PUF-eligible, and was passed by the required two-thirds vote of both legislative chambers. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29987436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29987436", "title": "Philosophy For All", "text": "Philosophy For All\n\nPhilosophy For All (PFA) is a London-based association of people interested in philosophy. It was founded in 1998. It aims to bridge the gap between professional and amateur philosophers, by holding talks, lectures and debates. Many of its events are held in pubs; and others in adult education colleges.\n\nAccording to its website, its aims are: \"to encourage philosophical debate between professional and non-professional philosophers in a non-technical way; to provide a forum for an active exchange of ideas and information; to give guidance and information concerning courses as well as relevant literature in philosophy; to inspire those interested in philosophy to develop their interest further.\"\n\nIt is believed to be the largest philosophy organisation in London in terms of membership. Its bi-annual Public Lecture is often attended by more than 100 people and its monthly Kant's Cave talks, which are often given by notable academics, regularly draw 70 or so people to a room above a pub in Euston.\n\nDuring the early years of the new millennium it organised a series of Round Table debates in which four leading philosophers and an audience of around 150 people would debate issues such as the relationship between science and philosophy.\n\nThe PFA Public Lectures are a series of lectures held every six months or so (from around 2003 onwards) in which a well-known thinker gives a lecture and then holds a lengthy discussion session with the audience. The lectures give members of the public the opportunity to question and discuss with internationally-known philosophers who have included as Simon Blackburn, Antony Flew, Piers Benn, Jonathan Glover, Anthony Grayling, Ted Honderich, Moshe Machover, Nicholas Maxwell, Mary Margaret McCabe, Mary Midgley, David Papineau, Janet Radcliffe Richards, Barry C. Smith, Jonathan Wolff, Raymond Tallis, and Colin Wilson.\n\nOther regular monthly Philosophy For All events include a philosophy film club, seminars on important philosophical texts and regular Philosophical Walks in the countryside around London.\n\nSince 2003, Philosophy For All has had a US chapter based in the twin cities of Fargo and Moorhead. The chapter was founded by Dr Mark Chekola, and meets monthly at the Plains Art Museum in Fargo. It has a Facebook page: https://www.facebook.com/pages/Philosophy-For-All-Fargo-Moorhead/879933445356607\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22058949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22058949", "title": "Pilgrim Trust Lecture", "text": "Pilgrim Trust Lecture\n\nThe Pilgrim Trust Lecture was a lecture supported by the Pilgrim Trust, organised by the Royal Society of London and the National Academy of Sciences. It was held between 1938 and 1945.\n"}
{"id": "55336593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55336593", "title": "Principles of Quantum Mechanics", "text": "Principles of Quantum Mechanics\n\nPrinciples of Quantum Mechanics is a textbook by Ramamurti Shankar. The book has been through two editions. It is used in many college courses around the world.\n\n\nPhysics Bulletin said about the book, \"No matter how gently one introduces students to the concept of Dirac’s bras and kets, many are turned off. Shankar attacks the problem head-on in the first chapter, and in a very informal style suggests that there is nothing to be frightened of\". American Scientist called it \"An excellent text … The postulates of quantum mechanics and the mathematical underpinnings are discussed in a clear, succinct manner\".\n"}
{"id": "19193976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19193976", "title": "Queensland Heritage Council", "text": "Queensland Heritage Council\n\nThe Queensland Heritage Council is an independent statutory authority created by the Queensland Parliament under the \"Queensland Heritage Act 1992\". The Council advises and reports to the Minister for Climate Change and Sustainability and is supported by a secretariat provided by the Department of Environment and Heritage Protection. It is also responsible for maintaining the Queensland Heritage Register.\n\nThe Queensland Heritage Council is composed of:\n\nThe current members of the Queensland Heritage Council are Debbie Best (Chairperson), Judy Brien, Kathy Davis, Dr Valerie Dennis, Alice Hampson, William Marklew, Dr Katie McConnel, Tanya Neville, Cr Judith Peters, Anthony Ross, Cr George Seymour.\n\nUnder the Act, the Queensland Heritage Council has the functions:\n\nThe Queensland Heritage Register is a statutory list of places that are protected by the . For a place to be entered in the register, it must be nominated and then go through a process of assessment which includes an opportunity for the public to comment. Currently, there are over 1600 places on the Queensland Heritage Register, including the Story Bridge in Brisbane and Paronella Park in Cairns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9542531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9542531", "title": "Rachel Podger", "text": "Rachel Podger\n\nRachel Podger (born 1968 in England) is an English violinist and conductor specialising in the performance of Baroque music.\n\nPodger was born to a British father and a German mother. She was educated at a German Rudolf Steiner school then returned to study first with Perry Hart, then at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama with David Takeno, Pauline Scott, and Micaela Comberti. During her studies, she co-founded Baroque chamber groups The Palladian Ensemble and Florilegium, and worked with period instrument ensembles such as the New London Consort and London Baroque.\n\nPodger often conducts Baroque orchestras from the violin. She was the leader of the Gabrieli Consort and Players and later of The English Concert from 1997 to 2002, touring extensively, often as soloist in Vivaldi's \"Le quattro stagioni\" and \"Grosso mogul\" concertos. In 2004 she took up guest directorship of the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, opening with a tour in the United States with Bach's \"Brandenburg Concertos\". She also currently works as a guest director with Arte dei Suonatori (Poland), Musica Angelica and Santa Fe Pro Musica (both in the United States) and as soloist with The Academy of Ancient Music.\n\nPodger is also a professor of Baroque violin at both the Guildhall School of Music and Drama and the Royal Welsh College of Music and Drama and also teaches regularly at the Hochschule für Künste, Bremen. On September 2008, she took up the newly founded Micaela Comberti Chair for Baroque violin at the Royal Academy of Music in London and then became professor of Baroque violin at the Royal Danish Academy of Music in Copenhagen.\n\nWhen not touring with various orchestras and other classical players, Podger works with her partner in Brecon, South Wales, helping young musicians through the Mozart Music Fund, which she founded in 2006, as well as holding workshops and giving recitals. In 2006 they also founded the annual Brecon Baroque Festival which is held over the penultimate weekend of October every year.\n\nPodger plays a violin made in Genoa in 1739 by Pesarinius, a later student of Antonio Stradivari. She initially played a Stradivarius copy from 1988 by Rowland Ross, and has recorded Haydn and Mozart on the 1699 Crespi Stradivarius.\n\nPodger records for Channel Classics Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28233501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28233501", "title": "Robert C. Koons", "text": "Robert C. Koons\n\nRobert Koons () is an American philosopher. He is a professor of Philosophy at the University of Texas (UT), noted for his contribution to metaphysics and philosophical logic. Koons has also advocated for academic freedom and courses on Western civilization.\n\nKoons has been involved in debates over issues of academic freedom and has advocated for college exit exams as he believes the measures used currently don't measure how well students learn. He led an effort at UT to create a concentration in Western Civilization and American Institutions. The goal of the program was to promote the study of the \"Great Books\" of the Western tradition, especially the American founding. Koons stated that the program transcended political differences.\n\nKoons is a national Senator of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, as well as a member of the executive committee of the Society of Christian Philosophers.\n\nKoons is co-editor, with George Bealer, of \"The Waning of Materialism: New Essays in the Philosophy of Mind\" (Oxford University Press, 2010), a collection of articles by leading analytic philosophers critical of physicalism and materialism. He is engaged in contributing to contemporary metaphysics and the philosophy of religion, including a forthcoming textbook, \"Metaphysics: The Fundamentals\", (with co-author Timothy Pickavance; Blackwell-Wiley, to appear January 2015).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45214324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45214324", "title": "T. Christine Stevens", "text": "T. Christine Stevens\n\nTerrie Christine \"Chris\" Stevens is an American mathematician whose research concerns topological groups, the history of mathematics, and mathematics education. She is also known as the co-founder of Project NExT, a mentorship program for recent doctorates in mathematics, which she directed from 1994 until 2009.\n\nStevens graduated from Smith College in 1970, and completed her doctorate in 1978 at Harvard University under the supervision of Andrew M. Gleason. Her dissertation was \"Weakened Topologies for Lie Groups\".\n\nShe held teaching positions at the University of Massachusetts Lowell, at Mount Holyoke College and at Arkansas State University before joining Saint Louis University, where for 25 years she was a professor of mathematics and computer science.\n\nShe was also a Congressional Science Fellow assisting congressman Theodore S. Weiss in 1984–1985, and was a program officer at the National Science Foundation in 1987–1989. After retiring from SLU, she became Associate Executive Director for Meetings and Professional Services of the American Mathematical Society.\n\nIn 2004 Stevens won the Gung and Hu Award for\nDistinguished Service to Mathematics of the Mathematical Association of America for her work on Project NExT.\nIn 2010 Stevens was awarded the Smith College Medal by her alma mater.\nShe has been a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science since 2005,\nand in 2012, she became one of the inaugural fellows of the American Mathematical Society. She was the 2015 winner of the Louise Hay Award of the Association for Women in Mathematics.\n\n"}
{"id": "40495119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40495119", "title": "Teacher Development Trust", "text": "Teacher Development Trust\n\nThe Teacher Development Trust is a UK charity which works to raise awareness of the importance of professional development for teachers and other education professionals.\n\nFounded by teachers in London in March 2012, the Trust promotes access to evidence-based, high quality training through its nationwide programmes.\n\nTeacher Development Trust mission statement:\n\nThe Trust also states that it aims to promote types and characteristics of teacher professional development proved successful by \"strong international research\".\n\nChief executive David Weston has said:\n\nIn April 2012 the British government closed the Training and Development Agency for Schools (TDA), the national body formerly responsible for teachers’ training and professional development.\n\nIn response to the planned closure, Teacher Development Trust was founded by teachers as a new agency aiming to support teachers’ professional learning.\n\nTeacher Development Trust currently runs two nationwide programmes alongside its ad hoc consultancy services.\n\nTDT Advisor is the Trust’s professional development database. It provides listings and ratings for professional development training courses, consultancy, and other services.\n\nTDT Advisor was launched in 2012 and is free of charge to providers and users.\n\nUsers are able to review courses and resources they have used. This has been compared to the \"TripAdvisor\" style of rating, referring to the popular site’s effective use of user generated content.\n\nIn January 2013, a partnership was set up between Teacher Development Trust, Education Endowment Foundation and Sutton Trust. As part of this partnership, GoodCPDGuide professional development listings are aligned with the topics listed in the EEF-Sutton Trust Teaching and Learning Toolkit. This Toolkit summarises research to provide \"guidance to teachers and schools on how to use their resources to improve the attainment of disadvantaged pupils.\"\n\nAll TDT Advisor users must agree to the site’s Code of Practice. Teacher Development Trust, EEF and Sutton Trust, undertake joint random quality sampling.\n\nIn July 2013, Teacher Development Trust launched the Network (formerly known as the National Teacher Enquiry Network (NTEN)).\n\nTDT Network is an opt-in UK school network whose member organisations will share and develop evidence-based professional development practice.\n\nServices offered to members of the network include:\n\nTDT Lesson Study is based on the theory and practice of Lesson Study, a teaching improvement process originating from Japan. In Lesson Study, teachers work in a small group to discuss their learning goals, create a \"research lesson\", then observe this lesson to revise and report on results. Groups finish by writing and disseminating their findings to assist colleagues and other teachers.\n\nLesson Study has been credited as enabling \"better understanding of student thinking in order to develop lessons that advance student learning\". Pilot Lesson Study schemes in England in 2003-2005 have also shown that the process allows for \"increased risk-taking […] through sharing the ownership of the lesson and its outcomes – which contrasts sharply with much of the effects of inspection and performance management oriented observation which can lead teachers to play safe\".\n\nTeacher Development Trust provides free advice for teachers and schools and offers support and consultancy for training providers.\n\nThe Trust runs a frequent blog on professional development and contributes each month to SecEd, a weekly magazine for secondary education.\n\nThe Trust was represented at the Education Innovation conference in Manchester in March 2013 and at the Research ED Conference 2013 where chief executive David Weston spoke on Bridging the Chasm Between Practitioners and Researchers.\n\nDavid Weston is also a regular contributor to the Guardian newspaper’s Teacher network.\n\nThe Department for Education, the Teaching Agency and the National College for School Leadership have all expressed support for the Teacher Development Trust.\n\nIn a speech to teachers and headteachers at the National College for Teaching and Leadership on 25 April 2013, Secretary of State for Education Michael Gove said of the Trust’s chief executive David Weston:\n\n\"I’m […] indebted to David Weston, Chief Executive of the Teacher Development Trust - who is a principled and non-partisan voice for reform\"\n\nIn its September 2013 report on the causes of educational failure, Requires Improvement, the Centre for Social Justice used Teacher Development Trust research and reports to demonstrate the importance of professional standards in teacher development.\n\nThe Trust has also gained support from major education organisations Iris Connect for its \"rigid focus upon the quality of CPD provision\" and from Optimus Education, who described the Trust as a \"grass-roots alternative in development, designed to support members of the profession at all stages of their careers.\"\n\nIn May 2013, chief executive David Weston was appointed to the judging panel for the EducationInvestor awards.\n\nThe Trust’s chief executive is David Weston, a former maths and physics teacher and Chair of the Department for Education's Teachers' Professional Development Expert Group. The Trust’s work is supported by former and current teaching professionals and education experts. Public Relations and communications for the Trust are run by Consilium Communications.\n\nThe Trust’s board of trustees is made up of:\n\nThe Trust's advisory board is made up of:\n\n"}
{"id": "8206481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8206481", "title": "The Beijing Center for Chinese Studies", "text": "The Beijing Center for Chinese Studies\n\nThe Beijing Center for Chinese Studies (or TBC) was established by Fr. Ron Anton as a 501(c)(3) organization in 1998. TBC's mission is to promote mutual understanding between China and other cultures. The Beijing Center was originally accredited by Loyola Marymount University and has been academically accredited by Loyola University-Chicago since 2007. The center offers programs for undergraduate students, faculty researchers and administrators, and programs for special academic groups. \n\nThe initial focus of TBC was on undergraduate study-abroad in China. TBC introduced: \n\nThe Beijing Center offers English-taught semester courses across 13 fields of study. \n\nWhen first entering the TBC Beijing location at the Beijing University of International Business and Economics, there is a replica of an old Beijing alleyway or “Hutong”. There is a water garden featuring 4,000 years of Chinese water jars, the conference room displays original copies of western maps of China from 1584 to 1745, and the director’s office replicates an old Ming scholar’s studio.\n\nThe ChinaContact division runs faculty-led short-term, non-credit programs all year long. Several times a year there are programs for faculty members and for university administrators including programs for university presidents. There are workshops and courses for undergraduate classes, MBA groups, and graduate humanities classes.\n\nTBC Research Center specializes in supporting primary source research and helping young Chinese scholars in the doctoral or post-doc years. The center’s scholar-in-residence helps TBC students with academic projects during their stay in Beijing.\n\nTBC Library of Chinese Studies houses a collection of 18,000 English-language volumes about Chinese life and society. Special collections include a small rare book collection of 17th century volumes that first revealed China to the West, a collection of approximately 1300 older books from 1800 to 1949, and a multi-lingual collection on the history of the Catholic Church in China.\nLibrary On-line Catalog\n\nThe TBC Library of Chinese Studies has obtained a few original copies of these works in its collection entitled: \"How the West Learned of China\". The collection dates from 1588 until 1840 (with a few later exceptions).\n\"How The West Learned of China\" collection list\n\nThe collection has 1,200 books from the early 19th century to the founding of the People's Republic of China. Many books were published in the Qing Dynasty and some are considered rare or collectors items. \nHistorical collection list\n\nThis is a multilingual collection mainly of primary sources from around the world on early Christian history in China. Works here are in Chinese, Latin, Portuguese, Dutch, German, Spanish, French, etc. (not English). It contains the work of early Dominicans, Franciscans, Jesuits and others as well as works from the early local church in China.\nChristian History collection list\n\n"}
{"id": "32583013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32583013", "title": "Tinkering School", "text": "Tinkering School\n\nTinkering School is an educational program created by Gever Tulley in California and is a registered trademark of Tinkering Unlimited.\n\nOne aspect of Tinkering School is a sleepover summer camp where children come and participate in projects. The projects are based on exploration and experimentation. Making use of various materials, students are encouraged to develop projects through which they develop skills such as creativity, communication and working in groups. The children spend an entire week inventing solutions, working on projects, testing their creations, and also having fun.\n\nA core aspect of the Tinkering School pedagogy is the idea of a \"projectory.\" A simple mashup of the notions of “project” and “trajectory,\" a projectory is a project that leaves the child on a trajectory that extends the experience beyond the end of the project. This is combined with the notion of “escape velocity”. The escape velocity of a project is a measure of the participant's engagement and the resistance that the project offers to further exploration after it is built. A perfect project is one that has very high engagement (which you can measure by how easily distracted they are during the project) and very low resistance to further exploration.\n\nSeveral affiliate programs have focused their activities on day camps and weekend workshops, rather than sleepover summer camp. While the projects themselves may be smaller, the projectories are no less impactful.\n\nComputer scientist Gever Tulley founded Tinkering School in 2005.\n\nCollaborators are the adult participants in the projects. They provide support, guide the project, and collaborate with the children in the discovery of a solution.\n\nAt Tinkering School there is no set curriculum. There are no tests or evaluations, and collaborators do not teach any particular subject. All learning is student-directed and project-based.\n\n"}
{"id": "1959239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959239", "title": "William Tillyer", "text": "William Tillyer\n\nWilliam Tillyer (born 1938 in Middlesbrough) is an English artist. His work has been shown frequently in the UK and internationally since the late 1950s. There are at least 15 works by Tillyer in the Tate collection, including \"High Force\" (1974). Examples of his work are also included in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, New York, the Brooklyn Art Museum, the Fort Worth Art Museum, Texas, the Smith College Museum of Art and the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nTillyer studied painting at the Middlesbrough College of Art from 1956–9, before moving south to London in the 1960s to study at the Slade School of Art, with painting as his main subject and printmaking as his subsidiary. There, he encountered William Coldstream and Anthony Gross, among others.\n\nIn 1959, Tillyer had two of his paintings – \"Painting\" and \"Sea, Clouds and Beach\" (both 1958) – accepted for the 'Young Contemporaries' exhibition, the tenth in a series of annual shows arranged to make public the best work done by students in England's art schools. The paintings were selected that year by Victor Pasmore, Terry Frost, Andrew Forge, Ceri Richards and William Turnbull.\n\nFollowing his time at the Slade, Tillyer took up a French Government Scholarship to study gravure under Stanley William Hayter, at Atelier 17 in Paris. Here, Tillyer had what he describes as \"the archetypal artist's studio\" at rooftop level in the American Pavilion of the Cité Universitaire, where he lived and worked when not in Hayter's studio. There he found a dense population of students, and a properly equipped print workshop. The pressure, though, was such that he spent much of his time in his room, making prints without a press. In 1963 he returned to England, and lived first in Notting Hill, in something close to abject poverty, and then in Middlesbrough.\n\nTillyer began experimenting with printmaking in 1958, while a student at the Slade, and it was as a printmaker that he made his first reputation. He won international acclaim at the Second International Print Biennale in Kraków in 1968, and, the following year, found the support of Bernard Jacobson, who has been his dealer ever since. They met after Tillyer paid a visit to Jacobson, one of the leading print dealers and publishers in the country, in his office on Mount Street, Mayfair armed with a selection of his newest prints. Jacobson was enthusiastic and selected two for immediate publication, \"Mrs Lumsden's\" and \"The Large Birdhouse\".\n\nThe late 1960s saw a sudden explosion in the making and marketing of prints in Britain and generally in the Western world. International print exhibitions became regular events, some of them awarding major prizes. Art magazines gave these media unprecedented attention and support. There are no certain reasons for this. The 1960s in Britain are sometimes referred to as the Age of Affluence and seemed to bread a sense of well-being. For a limited period, average earnings were up a little and taxes down a little while the country operated an effectively balanced system of nationalised and private industries and services. The early '60s had seen Britain expand the field of higher education and introduce, in particular, an almost wholly beneficial programme of reform and broadening of the major art schools of England and Wales, including the better staffing and equipping of printmaking departments. Of the growth of printmaking there is plenty of evidence, not least the opening of galleries specialising in prints, such as, in London, the Curwen Gallery, an outlet for the Curwen Press's own products, and St George's Gallery, subsequently a leading art bookshop but a busy print shop in the later 1960s. UK art magazines, notably \"Studio International\", took note of this growing activity and interest and gave the subject space. The press confirmed that there was a new interest in prints as an art form, one that attracted the best new artists, as well as previous generations in British art – pointing to the admired graphics of artists such as Paul Nash and the early Graham Sutherland – and reached out to a growing class of art-interested people not wealthy enough to collect unique paintings and sculpture. Finely edited and packaged suites and portfolios of prints, especially those produced by young and rising artists, were seen as attractive investments.\n\nTillyer's first major exhibition was held at the much admired Arnolfini Gallery in Bristol in 1970 and consisted of 33 etchings, three of which were immediately purchased by the British Council for its enterprising collection. With these prints, Tillyer used a variety of techniques, from etching to five tone screenprinting, to create lattices which through their gradation of tone depict what Pat Gilmour described as \"a cool and unpeopled world...in which to reflect the surrounding flux of nature.\"\n\nEncouraged by Tillyer's showing at the Arnolfini Gallery, Jacobson published a further four etchings, the \"Dry Lake\" suite. In 1971, 26 of his etchings were shown in the new Print Gallery within the Arts Council's Serpentine Gallery in London. Henceforth, with Jacobson marketing them, Tillyer's prints were seen and appreciated more widely. Other artists responded to them with enthusiasm, notably David Hockney, Sam Francis, Roy Lichtenstein, Ed Ruscha and Andy Warhol. From 1972 onwards, Tillyer's work has been shown regularly in group and solo exhibitions around the world.\n\nDuring 1975–76, while participating in an artist's a residency at Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, Tillyer began to use an idiosyncratic tall format for prints produced by diverse processes. He claimed at the time that the format echoed the tall window of his campus studio, and was confirmed for him by Chinese scroll paintings he saw in the university's gallery. Jacobson had asked him to contribute an image to a portfolio of new prints to be published in 1976 in celebration of the bicentenary of John Constable's birth; the other artists contributing included David Hockney, Robyn Denny and Richard Smith. It is strange but also refreshing that Tillyer should use this unfamiliar, anti-landscape format for an etching done in honour of Constable, \"For John Constable: The Cape, New England\"; it enabled him to keep his distance from the artist he was paying respect to. Even more remarkable is his use here of a large proportion of aquatint, apparently brushed on like watercolour. Evening light catches on clouds that fill the vertical slice of sky; at the very bottom, aptly presented as a tiny section of black lattice, we glimpse the sails of the Hampstead windmill that appears in certain Constable pictures. Its presence determines the scale of the whole; in addition, the contrast between that one mad-made detail, at the foot of the tall print, and the soft, delicate, but somewhat threatening swathes of lilac that almost fill the rest, is profoundly poetic as well as technically startling.\n\nThe \"Providence Prints\" (1976) is a suite of seven woodcuts and linocuts, using the same format but wholly different in technique, expression and subject. Exceptionally, Tillyer here allowed himself a variety of genres within a suite: landscape (waterfall), still like (the cylindrical vase with flowers), the human figure (two images of a nude posed indoors against a screen and a mirror). To each of the seven prints the Tillyer lattice makes major contributions, including in the figure images, where three or four lattices, cut with differing strengths and at varying scales, present floor, screen, background and the figures themselves. These may be echoes of Matisse's early figures, more obviously in the instance of the reclining figure, redolent as it is of the \"Blue Nude\" of 1907. The other, a standing figure, reflected in a mirror, her elbows raised as her hands meet behind her head, is likewise reminiscent of leftmost figure in Matisse's \"Le Bonheur de Vivre\" of 1905–06, a stock pose adapted from nineteenth-century academic painting.\n\nThe mid-1970s were a busy exhibiting period for Tillyer, but those years also show him reconstructing his professional image. Without playing down his prominence as a printmaker, he was eager to bring painting to the fore as his principal medium and vehicle of artistic expression. There followed a drastic reworking of the methods he had been using, and the images resulting from them, with Tillyer combining the canvas with a steel mesh ground, a bold decision without art historical precedent. In \"Blue Vase and Arrangement\" (1977–78), wire mesh occupies the centre and supplies the frame. The middle is occupied by the vase, which in turn is surrounded by colourful strokes and blotches: the nominal \"arrangement\" of flowers. These red, orange and green palimpsests burst forth from a dark, canvas ground, the jouissance of the flowers' colour being matched by the artist's self-consciously incongruous and witty identification of steel mesh with a ceramic vase.\n\nThere followed a second group of mesh paintings, which do away with the canvas altogether, made in 1979–80. Tillyer calls them the Mesh Works. Among the larger ones is \"Study for the House at Fontenay-aux-Roses by Way of the Admiral's House\" (1980), which was painted on an orthogonally positioned mesh of squares, collaged with bits of board front and back. There is thick paint on the mesh and thick paint on the boards, and these too come in primarily vertical and horizontal units. The white vertical form in the centre is not, this time, a vase, but a glimpse of a house amid foliage; to the left is a tall mottled green horizontal brushstroke, a poplar tree. The upper register, laden with bits of chipped wood panel assumes the form of a clear blue sky, and generally the scene is bathed in sunshine. A baroque gilt frame is hinted at on the right.\n\nTillyer would seem in this \"study\" to have tested how much and how little information would serve to convey his theme. This is perhaps unsurprising, given that his artistic interests are couched, he has claimed, in \"the tension between the artificial and the real,\" on the irreconcilable ontological difference between the two. Here is an actual landscape: real; and here is a depiction of it: artificial. Tillyer makes images — often, though not exclusively — with subjects derived from the natural world, which, through varying degrees of transformation, are turned into something essentially different: pictorially and materially. Tillyer's approach to painting — his facture — is playful. He tests, and ultimately expands, the limits of how far he is able to distance the artificial depiction from its real-world referent, without losing the reference itself, the point of this enterprise being to investigate and to demonstrate ever more fully the axiomatic contrivance and conceit implicit in the creation of all art.\n\nIn 1987, the Bernard Jacobson Gallery showed a selection of Tillyer's 'English Landscape Watercolours'. The title-page of the catalogue states: \"From April 1985 until March 1987, William Tillyer travelled throughout the British Isles and produces over 200 watercolours.\" Twenty-seven of these were exhibited and finely reproduced in the catalogue. Peter Fuller's thoughtful introduction raises a number of points. It outlines Tillyer's position vis-à-vis tradition and innovation: \"Tillyer's paintings depend, for their aesthetic effects, upon his responses to the world of nature; and yet, at the same time, his pictures do not offer a reproduction of the appearances of that world. Indeed, they seem to be deeply involved with that kind of questioning of the nature of the medium itself, so typical of late modernist concerns; Tillyer's painting in oil shows a characteristically self-critical doubt about the validity of illusion and representation, and a restless preoccupation with the nature of the picture plane, the support and the framing edge. Tillyer often seeks out 'radical' solutions, assaulting the surface, tearing, reconstituting, collaging.\" Fuller goes on to outline the history of English watercolour painting, associating Tillyer's use of the medium especially with the examples of Alexander Cozens and Thomas Girtin. He also stresses how Turner and others enlarged the effects achieved in it by \"roughing and scraping the surface of the paper\" and other such means, while Ruskin recommended the admixture of white to make watercolour opaque. Girtin, before Ruskin weighed in, had \"sought to 'purify' the practice of watercolour\" and made positive use of the whiteness of his chosen paper, together with delicate and also denser washes of colour. Fuller found this technique in Tillyer. He concludes: \"that in watercolours, and perhaps only in watercolours, the great cry of the Romantic aesthetic (i.e. 'Truth to Nature') and that of emergent Modernism (i.e. 'Truth to Materials') were, in effect, one and the same. For, when used in a way which preserved the particular qualities of the medium (even at the price of loss of immediate resemblance to the appearance of things) watercolour painting seemed to come closest to embodying the fragility, and elusive spontaneity, of our perceptions of nature itself.\" This, he adds, is what \"Tillyer seems to have understood so fully.\" Thus Tillyer appeared to be extending the researches of Ivon Hitchens and of Patrick Heron, Peter Lanyon and others associated with St Ives, fusing their response to nature, inherited from Romanticism, with the modern call for independent, often abstract image-making, guided by the doctrine of 'Truth to Materials'. In this, Fuller argues, we should recognise \"a quest for spiritual values\"; indeed this is a function of the continuing vitality of English landscape painting. Here Fuller makes good use of a quotation from Ruskin: \"The English tradition of landscape, culminating in Turner, is nothing other than a healthy effort to fill the void which the destruction of Gothic architecture has left.\" To this tradition belong, according to Fuller, \"Tillyer's best watercolours\" even as they declare their modernity: his response to nature is linked to \"the search for 'spiritual values'.\" Thus Tillyer is saved from what Fuller sees as late modern art's \"greatest weakness\": ending in \"aesthetic failure\" in pursuit of \"an abstract 'art of the real'.\" Tillyer's watercolours are beautiful in themselves. His gentle washes of colour tell us that our finest aesthetic feelings are intimately related to out experience of nature. Not to be aware of that which leads us \"to injustice and to exploit the natural world (and, indeed, each other).\" Tillyer's watercolours invite us to share with him a tentative and tremulous sensation of \"physical\" and \"spiritual\" oneness with the natural world.\n\nIn 1987 Tillyer bought some farm buildings in an isolated spot in North Yorkshire and put much effort into developing them as a home and workplace. It was here that he painted the \"Westwood\" series, a group of large-scale acrylic and oil paintings on canvas. There is an epic gravity about the works. The artist painted them using a broom head to deposit large arcs and commas of paint, keen to explore and exploit \"the physicality of the medium.\" These paintings overwhelm the viewer with their sheer visual presence, their muscular use of paint and the power of their formal and colour contrasts. Yet at the same time, according to Lynton, Tillyer seems to be stating something which \"comes perilously close to the thoughts of that famous piece of versifying: 'Poems are made by fools like me / But only god can make a tree.' Or: beware, this is only art; admire it, but know what you are admiring; do not use my paintings as a pretext for adoring nature.\" The implication here seems to be that while Tillyer could, had he wished, have created paintings which cajoled the viewer to bask in the pleasures that convincing landscape images provide, he elected not to, instead utilising a marked economy of means to suggest form, using, for example, only a single brushstroke to articulate a cloud, or the canopy of a tree, as in \"Untitled\" (1989). The \"Westwood\" paintings, sparse, yet Herculean in their vigour, insist on being blatantly synthetic; they declare their own artifice emphatically. Colours seem to lie on the very threshold of the picture plane, recession is implied very rarely, and patches of unpainted canvas abound. These are not landscapes, they cannot even accurately be termed depictions of them. This is Tillyer's version of the Verfremdungseffekt, Brecht's way of \"making strange\" lest his audiences should settle down into passive receptivity.\n\nMany forms and gesture recur. However, what Tillyer calls \"gestures\", a word redolent of the ostensibly intuitive actions of abstract expressionist painting, are in fact wholly deliberate. They need to be: their placing is exact and they can be huge. Their colour identifies their real-world referent, for example: (blue) sky, (white) cloud, (green) tree, (red) plant, (brown) earth and so on. Wide brushes are used to pick up more than one colour or tone. Thus in the same form might be found green, mingled with yellow or brown. In \"Green Landscape with Tree and Cloud\" (1989), a broad blue arc is partly covered by a black curve, and this in turn is overlaid with a shorter stroke in brilliant white, the topmost lateral edge of which is yellow, indicating a Tillyer cloud. In many places colours nestle within other colours, to suggest form, in this way.\n\nThe \"Living in Arcadia\" paintings were made in Yorkshire in 1990–91. In them, writes David Cohen, Tillyer \"juxtaposes the organic and the geometric, the gestural and the rational, the empirical (felt, observed) and the ideal (thought, imposed).\" These dualities are certainly there, and patent once we look for them. But the way he explores them makes it dangerous to attribute standard qualities to them: nothing is ever quite what it seems. Certainly they are \"organic\" and \"geometric\": these adjectives are clear enough. \"Gestural\", however, implies that the forms are not planned and thought-out, which axiomatically they are. Tillyer deploys pictorial rhetoric masterfully, using forms that look spontaneous and emotive with the same deliberation as geometric forms. Tillyer observes nature, but he also observes mankind's work. The world of design is as much within his remit as the world of nature, and \"design\" here includes aspects of modern and old-master art that could well be labelled \"ideal\". His process is constructive as well as deconstructive. In paintings such as \"Square Form\" (1990), we see him assembling forms and marks in a considered way. The work's form betrays the artist's process, which involves clear thought before and during its creation. The canvas is square and white. In its lower left corner is a black square, its sides uneven, a blue parallelogram apparently rising from either behind or above it, the bottom edge of which seems to fade away. All the other forms are gestural, and yet their clear, crisp outlines would appear to belie the artist's ostensibly spontaneous mark-making. Organic yet geometric; gestural yet rational.\n\nTillyer's presentation of elements which speak of nature together with elements that speak of human manufacture and human logic has been in his art from the first: two sorts of reality, linked because nature too adheres to logical processes and by the fact that we live in an environment made up of both. His habit of interrupting our reception of his images was born out of his desire to stop us mistaking art's artificial procedures and results as reality—that is to say, as a persuasive representation of something real. Here we get to the point of the series. The title, \"Living in Arcadia\" refers to two pictures by the classical French Baroque painter Nicolas Poussin. Their original titles are uncertain now. They are often labeled \"Et in Arcadia ego\" (1627/1637–38), in itself an ambiguous phrase, that is perhaps best translated: \"I too lived in Arcadia\". In both versions, shepherds examine a sarcophagus. The implication is that they have just discovered the stone monument and, having read its portentous epitaph, are pictured in the process of comprehending its significance. Even in Arcadia, that idyllic pastoral land associated with perfect well-being, death rules. Poussin's humans and the sarcophagus make for an unambiguous contrast: they and their natural environment live, while \"it\" speaks of death. Tillyer's series engages broadly with the same idea. His coloured forms may refer to nature, but he shows us quite clearly that they are merely acrylic (and therefore artificial) pigments, applied to panel – not natural and not alive – while the nominal \"square form\" is perhaps his equivalent to Poussin's man-made tomb.\n\nWhen Tillyer's \"Fearful Symmetries\" series was shown at the Bernard Jacobson Gallery in 1993, the catalogue reprinted an article Martin Gaylord had written a few weeks earlier. Gayford visited Tillyer in Yorkshire, and discussed with him his ideas about nature and landscape and his thoughts concerning watercolour painting, his own and his most important predecessors', Alexander and John Robert Cozens, Turner, Cotman etc. The first months of 1993 saw a large exhibition of 'The Great Age of British Watercolours' at the Royal Academy, and it made good sense to get Tillyer's response to this on the way to focusing on his own use of the medium. Tillyer declared his interest in the founders of this 'great age', and distanced himself from the elaborately worked watercolours of the mid-Victorians, done, as he said, to compete with oil paintings but essentially unable to. \"Each medium has its own nature. It's what you're saying with the medium that's important.\" He emphasised the originality, the modernity, of the past painters he admired, and also his personal aversion to making topographical portraits of selected landscapes. But he also stressed the affinity of watercolours to the British landscape, and vice versa: \"Around here moisture appears actually to rise out of the ground, out of the earth. It almost feels as if the sky is being formed from the earth – a rising of moisture into the void of the sky. Watercolour is almost the very nature of landscape in itself, its own properties. Landscape is simply weather – air and water... To my mind, the pure use of watercolour involved starting from white paper, and then gradually working back – so that any light and air you want in the piece is the first mark you make.\" About the new series of paintings Gayford said very little. It was primarily Tillyer's watercolours he had gone to discuss, in the context both of 'the great age' and of Tillyer's thoughts about nature and about the Romantic/classical duality signalled so firmly in the \"Westwood\" and \"Living in Arcadia\" paintings. The new paintings were being prepared for their trip to London. Gayford mentioned the contrast each of them offered, the \"rather jarring opposition\" between the natural forms, usually on the right, and the geometrical forms, usually on the left, now made as cuts into the canvas-on-board front plane. He rightly emphasised both that contrast, which seemed to him like \"a contest, even a battle\", and the resolution of the two elements on the conceptual level, since nature's forms too are structured mathematically. He also explained Tillyer's use of the series title, \"Fearful Symmetries\". The words echo William Blake's, in his poem \"The Tyger\", but Tillyer says he took them from the title of a piece of music by the American composer John Adams. In many respects the new series continues methods and images initiated in the \"Living in Arcadia\" series. However, the new series, produced in 1992–93 is more concentrated, in that all the paintings have the same format and dimensions (36 x 42 inches), and are all set into the characteristic Tillyer timber frame, painted in various blue-greys. \"Ayton\" (1993), for example, is painted on uninterrupted canvas, sans wire mesh and sans planar recession, in thinned acrylic over white and could almost be a watercolour, a suitably delicate response to light and air.\n\nIn the autumn of 1994 Tillyer showed his next series, the \"Kachina\" paintings, at André Emmerich's gallery in New York. The catalogue appends a Tillyer text, 'some Brief Notes'; the introduction is by Martin Gayford. In it, Tillyer writes about the Italian Renaissance as, for all its positive achievements, a deleterious episode in the long history of art: \"The \"Kachina\" paintings... may also be seen as a visual essay on the relation of illusion to reality... of the Renaissance ideal of spatial illusionism to the Byzantine concept of the object. The failure in the 15th century to couple the new Renaissance concepts of perspective and illusionistic space with those of Byzantium made for a lost opportunity. It is only in the 20th century that this failure has begun to be redressed.\" For the art historian this raises all sorts of difficulties, but the underling truth in what Tillyer outlines was known to the great innovators of Modern art, to Gaugin and Cézanne especially, as is shown by their efforts to abandon not only academic illusionism but also the illusionism of tone and colour still purveyed by Impressionism, in favour of a new flatness and formal, as opposed to naturalistic, rightness; also known to Matisse, Kandinsky, Malevich etc., who gave priority to the demands of the pictorial object and of their media. The Cubism of Picasso and Braque was, among other things, a dialectical treatment of the opposition to which Tillyer refers. And surely by at the very latest 1950, roughly the time when Matisse made his great paper cut-out compositions, and Pollock his finest drip works, the Albertian tradition of the tabula quadrata as a window on to reality had been set aside, countered by something equally powerful. Tilyer, however, takes this rejection further still. It is one thing for Pollock to substitute for perspective and tonal modelling the material reality of paint and colour and the brushstroke as visual fact. It is quite another to change the language of painting altogether, fracturing its traditional logic by introducing other, conventionally incongruous media, as in Tillyer's substitution of the canvas for a wire lattice in his earlier Mesh works.\n\nThe \"Kachina\" paintings likewise make reference to unconventional media: the kachina dolls made by the Native America Hopi tribe. The kachina doll, writes Tillyer in the catalogue, is \"icon-like,\" and provided him \"with a vehicle to explore the dialogue between nature seen romantically and the geometry of man-made forms\" to which the series (and much of his earlier work) makes reference. Kachna dolls are at once figurative and geometrical; in them \"gesture counters geometry.\" The forms of the paintings are themselves taken from the dolls, most obviously the blue ratchet-edged insectile biomorph that in \"Blue Ogre\" (1994) appears to devour the green and yellow comma-like gestures around which it curves. Though almost every painting in the series is vertical and many of them present dominant forms – \"gestures\" – of this sort, the artist has remarked: \"They are all landscapes. All the paintings are kachinas, but most could just as well be given the title \"Landscape with Ruins\".\" This refers to Tillyer's use of the type of landscape inherited from, primarily, Poussin. In the \"Westwood\" and \"Living in Arcadia\" paintings, we saw him knotting and fusing his pictorial signs for nature into quite concise clusters, operating as emblems more than as glimpses of landscape. Now he uses parts and aspects of the dolls in addition to Poussin's geometric and stereometric forms in his internal debate on the nature of art. This becomes more assertive than before, more up-front, less implicit. It is partly that the images themselves are so insistent. Big forms, on the surface as paint, run swiftly from top to bottom, sometimes organic and gestural, or else hard and geometric, flat and voluminous, relief and planar. They attempt to deal with the artist's strongly felt ideas about landscape and the nature of painting: of the eternal struggle between artifice and reality implicit in the creation, consumption and ontology of all art.\n\nThe verticality of most of the \"Kachina\" paintings, together with their compositions, which are usually firmly centred, gives them an almost figurative presence: something stands there, emerging from the tenebrous canvas ground beneath. But there are exceptions. \"Heart of the Sky: Orange Heaven\" (1994) is the only horizontal canvas in the series. It presents a dark Tillyer landscape, sliced open in the middle in the shape of a slightly asymmetrical diabolo (a sharply waisted cylinder). The back plane is black, so deep as to be almost luminous, and set against it we see most of what we take to be a bright red rectangle. The black and the red are so positive that they seem to shine out from this carved recess, overwhelming the landscape to which they play background.\n\nIn 2010 a major monograph on his watercolours was published by 21 Publishing covering almost 40 years of his practise. In the extensive text American art critic and poet John Yau writes: \"However beautiful they are, and many of them are extremely beautiful, almost painfully so, Tillyer's watercolours never lead us away in favour of an Edenic vision.\"\n\nIn 2013 Mima Middlesbrough Institute of Modern Art in Middlesbrough held the first major retrospective exhibition of Tillyer's work since 1996.\n\nIn late 2017, Bernard Jacobson announced in the Art Newspaper that he would be filling most of his 2018 exhibition schedule with shows dedicated to Tillyer, launching \"five separate exhibitions incorporating new and historic works by the Middlesbrough-born artist.\" Jacobson, who has been Tillyer’s dealer since 1969, stated: \"He was an unknown then, and I’ve stayed loyal to him since. I consider him the heir to Constable through Cézanne and Matisse. He is an intensely private man who is completely outside the system, and I’m keen to set the record straight.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1827030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1827030", "title": "World Forestry Center", "text": "World Forestry Center\n\nThe World Forestry Center is a nonprofit educational institution in Portland in the U.S. state of Oregon. Located near the Oregon Zoo in Washington Park, the organization was established in 1964 as the Western Forestry Center, with the actual building opening in 1971.\n\nThe World Forestry Center has its roots in the 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial American Pacific Exposition and Oriental Fair for which an enormous log cabin was built of huge native trees and advertised as the world's largest. Public interest in the Forestry Building, which was turned over to the State of Oregon, lasted long after the exposition ended, right up until it was destroyed by fire on August 17, 1964.\n\nThe day after the fire, a group of civic and industry leaders conceived The Western Forestry Center. A new, more fire-resistant forestry building designed by Oregon architect John Storrs was built in Washington Park. It opened to the public on June 5, 1971. The name was changed to \"World Forestry Center\" in 1986 to reflect the center's revised focus on forestry on a global scale.\n\nOn June 30, 2005, after a $7 million, 6-month renovation, the museum reopened with new interactive exhibits about the sustainability of forests and trees of the Pacific Northwest and the world.\n\nThe World Forestry Center's mission is to \"educate and inform people about the world's forests and trees, and their importance to all life, in order to promote a balanced and sustainable future.\"\n\nThe center achieves its mission with three programs: the Discovery Museum, two donated working forests—the Magness Memorial Tree Farm and the Johnson-Swanson Tree Farm—and the World Forest Institute which was established in 1989. The primary program is the International Fellowship Program.\n\nIn 1989, the World Forestry Center established the World Forest Institute to meet a growing demand for forestry information. As the forestry sector becomes increasingly complex, there is a greater need for international collaboration and exchange of information on forest trade, regulation, management, and forest resources. The World Forest Institute was created through the vision and support of Harry A. Merlo, a pioneer of the forest products industry, and an early visionary of the globalization of the forestry sector.\nThe fellowship program brings young forestry and forest products professionals from around the world to work at the World Forest Institute for 6 to 12 months. Fellows are commonly sponsored by their employer, government institutions, the forest industry, or an NGO, and carry out applied research projects of interest to their sponsors. In addition to completing a practical research project, the program works to get Fellows a broad exposure to natural resource management in the U.S. so that when they return to their home countries they have a basic understanding of the owners and managers of land and natural resources throughout the country.\n\nThe institute won the 2012 Portland Mayor's International Business Award from the Oregon Consular Corps. This award recognizes businesses that contribute to a global environment in Oregon.\n\nThe World Forestry Center campus also accommodates three other buildings: Julian N. Cheatham Hall, Harold A. Miller Hall and Harry A. Merlo Hall, which houses the administrative offices and the World Forest Institute.\n\nThe Leadership Hall of Fame commemorates people who have made important contributions to forestry. The photographs and biographies of nearly 200 forestry leaders are displayed in three chests constructed of select Black Walnut from the eastern U.S.\n\nParking at the World Forestry Center costs $2 per hour, to a maximum of $8 per day. The Washington Park light rail station provides regional public transit access to the World Forestry Center. Additionally, TriMet bus route 63-Washington Park provides daily service to the World Forestry Center via Washington Park.\n\n\n"}
