{"id": "49392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49392", "title": "Affirmative action", "text": "Affirmative action\n\nAffirmative action, also known as reservation in India and Nepal, positive action in the United Kingdom, and employment equity (in a narrower context) in Canada and South Africa, is the policy of promoting the education and employment of members of groups that are known to have previously suffered from discrimination. Historically and internationally, support for affirmative action has sought to achieve goals such as bridging inequalities in employment and pay, increasing access to education, promoting diversity, and redressing apparent past wrongs, harms, or hindrances. \n\nThe nature of affirmative action policies varies from region to region. Some countries use a quota system, whereby a certain percentage of government jobs, political positions, and school vacancies must be reserved for members of a certain group; an example of this is the reservation system in India. In some other regions where quotas are not used, minority group members are given preference or special consideration in selection processes. In the United States, affirmative action in employment and education has been the subject of legal and political controversy; in 2003, a pair of decisions by the Supreme Court of the United States (\"Grutter v. Bollinger\" and \"Gratz v. Bollinger\") permitted educational institutions to consider race as a factor when admitting students while prohibiting the use of quotas. In other countries, such as the UK, affirmative action is rendered illegal because it does not treat all races equally. This approach to equal treatment is described as being \"color blind\". In such countries, the focus tends to be on ensuring equal opportunity and, for example, targeted advertising campaigns to encourage ethnic minority candidates to join the police force. This is sometimes described as \"positive action\".\n\nThe term \"affirmative action\" was first used in the United States in \"Executive Order No. 10925\", signed by President John F. Kennedy on 6 March 1961, which included a provision that government contractors \"take \"affirmative action\" to ensure that applicants are employed, and employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin\". It was used to promote actions that achieve non-discrimination. In 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson issued Executive Order 11246 which required government employers to take \"affirmative action\" to \"hire without regard to race, religion and national origin\". This prevented employers from discriminating against members of disadvantaged groups.\nIn 1967, gender was added to the anti-discrimination list.\n\nAffirmative action is intended to promote the opportunities of defined minority groups within a society to give them equal access to that of the majority population.\n\nIt is often instituted for government and educational settings to ensure that certain designated \"minority groups\" within a society are able to participate in all provided opportunities including promotional, educational, and training opportunities.\n\nThe stated justification for affirmative action by its proponents is that it helps to compensate for past discrimination, persecution or exploitation by the ruling class of a culture, and to address existing discrimination.\n\nSeveral different studies investigated the effect of affirmative action on women. Kurtulus (2012) in her review of affirmative action and the occupational advancement of minorities and women during 1973-2003 showed that the effect of affirmative action on advancing black, Hispanic, and white women into management, professional, and technical occupations occurred primarily during the 1970s and early 1980s. During this period, contractors grew their shares of these groups more rapidly than noncontractors because of the implementation of affirmative action. But the positive effect of affirmative action vanished entirely in the late 1980s, which Kurtulus says may be due to the slowdown into advanced occupation for women and minorities because of the political shift of affirmative action that started by President Reagan. Becoming a federal contractor increased white women's share of professional occupations by 0.183 percentage points, or 7.3 percent, on average during these three decades, and increased black women's share by 0.052 percentage points (or by 3.9 percent). Becoming a federal contractor also increased Hispanic women's and black men's share of technical occupations on average by 0.058 percent and 0.109 percentage points respectively (or by 7.7 and 4.2 percent). These represent a substantial contribution of affirmative action to overall trends in the occupational advancement of women and minorities over the three decades under the study. A reanalysis of multiple scholarly studies, especially in Asia, considered the impact of four primary factors on support for affirmative action programs for women: gender; political factors; psychological factors; and social structure. Kim and Kim (2014) found that, \"Affirmative action both corrects existing unfair treatment and gives women equal opportunity in the future.\"\n\nLaw regarding quotas and affirmative action varies widely from nation to nation. Caste-based quotas are used in India for reservation. However, they are illegal in the United States, where no employer, university, or other entity may create a set number required for each race.\n\nIn 2012, the European Union Commission approved a plan for women to constitute 40% of non-executive board directorships in large listed companies in Europe by 2020. In Sweden, the Supreme Court has ruled that \"affirmative action\" ethnic quotas in universities are discrimination and hence unlawful. It said that the requirements for the intake should be the same for all. The justice minister said that the decision left no room for uncertainty.\n\nIn some countries that have laws on racial equality, affirmative action is rendered illegal because it does not treat all races equally. This approach of equal treatment is sometimes described as being \"color blind\", in hopes that it is effective against discrimination without engaging in reverse discrimination.\n\nIn such countries, the focus tends to be on ensuring equal opportunity and, for example, targeted advertising campaigns to encourage ethnic minority candidates to join the police force. This is sometimes described as \"positive action\".\n\nThe apartheid government, as a matter of state policy, favoured white-owned, especially Afrikaner-owned companies. The aforementioned policies achieved the desired results, but in the process they marginalised and excluded black people. Skilled jobs were also reserved for white people, and blacks were largely used as unskilled labour, enforced by legislation including the Mines and Works Act, the Job Reservations Act, the Native Building Workers Act, the Apprenticeship Act and the Bantu Education Act, creating and extending the \"colour bar\" in South African labour. Then the whites successfully persuaded the government to enact laws that highly restricted the blacks' employment opportunities.\n\nSince the 1960s the apartheid laws had been weakened. Consequently, from 1975 to 1990 the real wages of black manufacturing workers rose by 50%, while those of whites rose by 1%.\n\nThe economic and politically structured society during the apartheid ultimately caused disparities in employment, occupation and income within labour markets, which provided advantages to certain groups and characteristics of people. This in due course was the motivation to introduce affirmative action in South Africa, following the end of apartheid.\n\nFollowing the transition to democracy in 1994, the African National Congress-led government chose to implement affirmative action legislation to correct previous imbalances (a policy known as employment equity). As such, all employers were compelled by law to employ previously disenfranchised groups (blacks, Indians, and Coloureds). A related, but distinct concept is Black Economic Empowerment.\n\nThe Employment Equity Act and the Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Act aim to promote and achieve equality in the workplace (in South Africa termed \"equity\"), by advancing people from designated groups. The designated groups who are to be advanced include all people of colour, women (including white women) and people with disabilities (including white people). Employment Equity legislation requires companies employing more than 50 people to design and implement plans to improve the representativity of workforce demographics, and report them to the Department of Labour.\n\nEmployment Equity also forms part of a company's Black Economic Empowerment scorecard: in a relatively complex scoring system, which allows for some flexibility in the manner in which each company meets its legal commitments, each company is required to meet minimum requirements in terms of representation by previously disadvantaged groups. The matters covered include equity ownership, representation at employee and management level (up to board of director level), procurement from black-owned businesses and social investment programs, amongst others.\n\nThe policies of Employment Equity and, particularly, Black Economic empowerment have been criticised both by those who view them as discriminatory against white people, and by those who view them as ineffectual.\n\nThese laws cause disproportionally high costs for small companies and reduce economic growth and employment. The laws may give the black middle-class some advantage but can make the worse-off blacks even poorer. Moreover, the Supreme Court has ruled that in principle blacks may be favored, but in practice this should not lead to unfair discrimination against the others.\n\nAs mentioned previously affirmative action was introduced through the Employment Equality Act, 55 in 1998, 4 years after the end of apartheid. This act was passed to promote the constitutional right of equality and exercise true democracy. This idea was to eliminate unfair discrimination in employment, to ensure the implementation of employment equity to redress the effects of discrimination, to achieve a diverse workforce broadly representative of our people, to promote economic development and efficiency in the workforce and to give effects to the obligations of the Republic as a member of the International Labour Organisation.\n\nMany embraced the Act; however some concluded that the act contradicted itself. The act eliminates unfair discrimination in certain sectors of the national labour market by imposing similar constraints on another.\n\nWith the introduction of Affirmative Action, Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) rose additionally in South Africa. The BEE was not a moral initiative to redress the wrongs of the past but to promote growth and strategies that aim to realize a country's full potential. The idea was targeting the weakest link in economics, which was inequality and which would help develop the economy. This is evident in the statement by the Department of Trade and Industry, \"As such, this strategy stresses a BEE process that is associated with growth, development and enterprise development, and not merely the redistribution of existing wealth\". Similarities between the BEE and affirmative action are apparent; however there is a difference. BEE focuses more on employment equality rather than taking wealth away from the skilled white labourers.\n\nThe main goal of Affirmative Action is for a country to reach its full potential. This occurrence would result in a completely diverse workforce in economic and social sectors. Thus broadening the economic base and therefore stimulating economic growth.\n\nOnce applied within the country, many different outcomes arose, some positive and some negative. This depended on the approach to and the view of The Employment Equality Act and affirmative action.\n\nPositive:\nPre-Democracy, the apartheid governments discriminated against non-white races, so with affirmative action, the country started to redress past discriminations. Affirmative action also focused on combating structural racism and racial inequality, hoping to maximize diversity in all levels of society and sectors. Achieving this would elevate the status of the perpetual underclass and to restore equal access to the benefits of society.\n\nNegative:\nThough affirmative action had its positives, negatives arose. A quota system was implemented, which aimed to achieve targets of diversity in a work force. This target affected the hiring and level of skill in the work force, ultimately affecting the free market. Affirmative action created marginalization for coloured and Indian races in South Africa, as well as developing and aiding the middle and elite classes, leaving the lower class behind. This created a bigger gap between the lower and middle class, which led to class struggles and a greater segregation. Entitlement began to arise with the growth of the middle and elite classes, as well as race entitlement. Many believe that affirmative action is discrimination in reverse. With all these negatives, much talent started to leave the country. Many negative consequences of affirmative action, specifically the quota system, drive skilled labour away, resulting in bad economic growth. This is due to very few international companies wanting to invest in South Africa.\n\nWith these negative and positive outcomes of affirmative action, it is evident that the concept of affirmative action is continually evolving.\n\nThere is affirmative action in education for minority nationalities. This may equate to lowering minimum requirements for the National University Entrance Examination, which is a mandatory exam for all students to enter university. Some universities set quotas for minority (non-Han) student intake. Further, minority students enrolled in ethnic minority-oriented specialties (e.g. language and literature programs) are provided with scholarships and/or pay no tuition, and are granted a monthly stipend.\n\nA class-based affirmative action policy was incorporated into the admission practices of the four most selective universities in Israel during the early to mid-2000s. In evaluating the eligibility of applicants, neither their financial status nor their national or ethnic origins are considered. The emphasis, rather, is on structural disadvantages, especially neighborhood socioeconomic status and high school rigor, although several individual hardships are also weighed. This policy made the four institutions, especially the echelons at the most selective departments, more diverse than they otherwise would have been. The rise in geographic, economic and demographic diversity of a student population suggests that the plan's focus on structural determinants of disadvantage yields broad diversity dividends.\n\nIsraeli citizens who are; Women, Arabs, Blacks or people with disabilities are entitled to Affirmative Action in the civil service employment. Also Israeli citizens who are Arabs, Blacks or people with disabilities are entitled for Affirmative Actions are entitled for full University tuition scholarships by the state.\n\nIn her study of gender politics in Israel, Dafna Izraeli showed that the paradox of affirmative action for women directors is that the legitimation for legislating their inclusion on boards also resulted in the exclusion of women's interested as a legitimate issue on the boards' agendas. \"The new culture of the men's club is seductive token women are under the pressure to become \"social males\" and prove that their competence as directors, meaning that they are not significantly different from men. In the negotiation for status as worthy peers, emphasizing gender signals that a woman is an \"imposter\", someone who does not rightfully belong in the position she is claiming to fill.\" And once affirmative action for women is fulfilled, and then affirmative action shares the element, as Izraeli put it, the \"group equality discourse,\" making it easier for other groups to claim for a fairer distribution of resources. This suggests that affirmative action can have applications for different groups in Israel.\n\nReservation in India is a form of affirmative action designed to improve the well-being of backward and under-represented communities defined primarily by their caste. Reservation in India favors the majority of the population with more than 70% of Indian Citizens eligible for reservation benefits. 49.5% of all college admissions and government jobs are reserved for this 70% majority but they can also compete for the remaining 50.5% unreserved quota as well . Further, only 0.7% of scholarships disbursed by the government were given on the basis of merit, with over 94% of the scholarships given on basis of Reservation instead .\n\nThe Malaysian New Economic Policy or NEP serves as a form of affirmative action. Malaysia provides affirmative action to the majority because in general, the Malays have lower incomes than the Chinese, who have traditionally been involved in businesses and industries, but who were also general migrant workers. Malaysia is a multi-ethnic country, with Malays making up the majority of close to 52% of the population. About 23% of the population is of Chinese descent, while those of Indian descent comprise about 7% of the population.\n\n(\"See also Bumiputra\") The mean income for Malays, Chinese and Indians in 1957/58 were 134, 288 and 228 respectively. In 1967/68 it was 154, 329 and 245, and in 1970 it was 170, 390 and 300. Mean income disparity ratio for Chinese/Malays rose from 2.1 in 1957/58 to 2.3 in 1970, whereas for Indians/Malays the disparity ratio also rose from 1.7 to 1.8 in the same period. The Malays viewed Independence as restoring their proper place in their own country's socioeconomic order while the non-Malays were opposing government efforts to advance Malay political primacy and economic welfare.\n\nIn 1981 the Standardization policy of Sri Lankan universities was introduced as an affirmative action program for students from areas which had lower rates of education than other areas due to missionary activity in the north and east, which essentially were the Tamil areas. Successive governments cultivated a historical myth after the colonial powers had left that the British had practised communal favouritism towards Christians and the minority Tamil community for the entire 200 years they had controlled Sri Lanka. However, the Sinhalese in fact benefitted from trade and plantation cultivations over the rest of the other groups and their language and culture as well as the religion of Buddhism was fostered and made into mediums for schools over the Tamil language, which did not have the same treatment and Tamils learned English instead as there was no medium for Tamil until near independence. Tamils' knowledge of English and education came from the very American missionary activity by overseas Christians that the British were concerned will anger the Sinhalese and destroy their trading relationships, so they sent them to the Tamil areas instead to teach, thinking it would have no consequences and due to their small numbers. The British sending the missionaries to the north and east was for the protection of the Sinhalese and in fact showed favouritism to the majority group instead of the minorities to maintain trading relationships and benefits from them. The Tamils, out of this random benefit from learning English and basic education excelled and flourished and were able to take many civil service jobs to the chagrin of the Sinhalese. The myth of Divide and Rule is untrue. The 'policy of standardisation' was typical of affirmative action policies, in that it required drastically lower standards for Sinhalese students than for the more academic Tamils who had to get about ten more marks to enter into universities. The policy, were it not implemented would have prevented the civil wars ahead as the policies had no basis and in fact is an example of discrimination against the Tamil ethnic group.\n\nA 2004 legislation requires that, for a firm with 100 employees or more wishing to compete for government contracts, at least 1 per cent of its employees must be Taiwanese aborigines. Ministry of Education and Council of Aboriginal Affairs announced in 2002 that Taiwanese Aboriginal students would have their high-school or undergraduate entrance exams boosted by 33% for demonstrating some knowledge of their tribal language and culture. The percentage of boost have been revised several times, and the latest percentage is 35% in 2013.\n\nIn certain university education programs, including legal and medical education, there are quotas for persons who reach a certain standard of skills in the Swedish language; for students admitted in these quotas, the education is partially arranged in Swedish. The purpose of the quotas is to guarantee that a sufficient number of professionals with skills in Swedish are educated for nationwide needs. The quota system has met with criticism from the Finnish speaking majority, some of whom consider the system unfair. In addition to these linguistic quotas, women may get preferential treatment in recruitment for certain public sector jobs if there is a gender imbalance in the field.\n\nNo distinctions based on race, religion or sex are allowed under the 1958 French Constitution. Since the 1980s, a French version of affirmative action based on neighborhood is in place for primary and secondary education. Some schools, in neighborhoods labeled \"Priority Education Zones\", are granted more funds than the others. Students from these schools also benefit from special policies in certain institutions (such as Sciences Po).\n\nThe French Ministry of Defence tried in 1990 to make it easier for young French soldiers of North-African descent to be promoted in rank and obtain driving licenses. After a strong protest by a young French lieutenant in the Ministry of Defence newspaper (\"Armées d'aujourd'hui\"), the driving license and rank plan was cancelled. After the Sarkozy election, a new attempt in favour of Arab-French students was made, but Sarkozy did not gain enough political support to change the French constitution. However, some French schools do implement affirmative action in that they are obligated to take a certain number of students from impoverished families.\n\nAdditionally, following the Norwegian example, after 27 January 2014, women must represent at least 20% of board members in all stock exchange listed or state owned companies. After 27 January 2017, the proportion will increase to 40%. All appointments of males as directors will be invalid as long as the quota is not met, and monetary penalties may apply for other directors.\n\nArticle 3 of the German Basic Law provides for equal rights of all people regardless of sex, race or social background. There are programs stating that if men and women have equal qualifications, women have to be preferred for a job; moreover, the disabled should be preferred to non-disabled people. This is typical for all positions in state and university service , typically using the phrase \"We try to increase diversity in this line of work\". In recent years, there has been a long public debate about whether to issue programs that would grant women a privileged access to jobs in order to fight discrimination. Germany's \"Left Party\" brought up the discussion about affirmative action in Germany's school system. According to Stefan Zillich, quotas should be \"a possibility\" to help working class children who did not do well in school gain access to a \"Gymnasium\" (University-preparatory school). Headmasters of \"Gymnasien\" have objected, saying that this type of policy would \"be a disservice\" to poor children.\n\nIn all public stock companies (ASA) boards, either gender should be represented by at least 40%. This affects roughly 400 companies of over 300,000 in total.\n\nSeierstad & Opsahl in their study of the effects of affirmative action on presence, prominence, and social capital of women directors in Norway found that there are few boards chaired by a woman, from the beginning of the implementation of affirmative action policy period to August 2009, the proportion of boards led by a woman has increased from 3.4% to 4.3%. This suggests that the law has had a marginal effect on the sex of the chair and the boards remain internally segregated. Although at the beginning of our observation period, only 7 of 91 prominent directors were women. The gender balance among prominent directors has changed considerable through the period, and at the end of the period, 107 women and 117 men were prominent directors. By applying more restrictive definitions of prominence, the proportion of directors who are women generally increases. If only considering directors with at least three directorships, 61.4% of them are women. When considering directors with seven or more directorships, all of them are women. Thus, affirmative action increase the female population in the director position.\n\nA 2016 study found no effect of the ASA representation requirement on either valuation or profits of the affected companies, and also no correlation between the requirement and the restructuring of companies away from ASA. \n\nRomani people are allocated quotas for access to public schools and state universities. \nQuota systems existed in the USSR for various social groups including ethnic minorities (as a compensation of their \"cultural backwardness\"), women and factory workers.\n\nQuotas for access to university education, offices in the Soviet system and the Communist Party existed: for example, the position of First Secretary of a Soviet Republic's (or Autonomous Republic's) Party Committee was always filled by a representative of this republic's \"titular ethnicity\".\n\nModern Russia retains this system partially. Quotas are abolished, however, preferences for some ethnic minorities and inhabitants of certain territories remain.\n\nThe Constitutional Court declared in October 2005 that affirmative action i.e. \"providing advantages for people of an ethnic or racial minority group\" as being against its Constitution.\n\nIn the UK, any discrimination, quotas or favouritism due to sex, race and ethnicity among other \"protected characteristics\" is generally illegal for any reason in education, employment, during commercial transactions, in a private club or association, and while using public services. The Equality Act 2010 established the principles of equality and their implementation in the UK.\n\nSpecific exemptions include:\n\n\nThe equality section of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms explicitly permits affirmative action type legislation, although the Charter does not \"require\" legislation that gives preferential treatment. Subsection 2 of Section 15 states that the equality provisions do \"not preclude any law, program or activity that has as its object the amelioration of conditions of disadvantaged individuals or groups including those that are disadvantaged because of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, sex, age or mental or physical disability\".\n\nThe Canadian Employment Equity Act requires employers in federally-regulated industries to give preferential treatment to four designated groups: Women, persons with disabilities, aboriginal peoples, and visible minorities. Less than one-third of Canadian Universities offer alternative admission requirements for students of aboriginal descent. Some provinces and territories also have affirmative action-type policies. For example, in Northwest Territories in the Canadian north, aboriginal people are given preference for jobs and education and are considered to have P1 status. Non-aboriginal people who were born in the NWT or have resided half of their life there are considered a P2, as well as women and people with disabilities.\n\nThe concept of affirmative action was introduced in the early 1960s in the United States, as a way to combat racial discrimination in the hiring process, with the concept later expanded to address gender discrimination. Affirmative action was first created from Executive Order 10925, which was signed by President John F. Kennedy on 6 March 1961 and required that government employers \"not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin\" and \"take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment, without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin\".\n\nOn 24 September 1965, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed Executive Order 11246, thereby replacing Executive Order 10925 and affirming Federal Government's commitment \"to promote the full realization of equal employment opportunity through a positive, continuing program in each executive department and agency\". Affirmative action was extended to women by Executive Order 11375 which amended Executive Order 11246 on 13 October 1967, by adding \"sex\" to the list of protected categories. In the U.S. affirmative action's original purpose was to pressure institutions into compliance with the nondiscrimination mandate of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Civil Rights Acts do not cover veterans, people with disabilities, or people over 40. These groups are protected from discrimination under different laws.\n\nAffirmative action has been the subject of numerous court cases, and has been questioned upon its constitutional legitimacy. In 2003, a Supreme Court decision regarding affirmative action in higher education (\"Grutter v. Bollinger\", 539 US 244 – Supreme Court 2003) permitted educational institutions to consider race as a factor when admitting students. Alternatively, some colleges use financial criteria to attract racial groups that have typically been under-represented and typically have lower living conditions. Some states such as California (California Civil Rights Initiative), Michigan (Michigan Civil Rights Initiative), and Washington (Initiative 200) have passed constitutional amendments banning public institutions, including public schools, from practicing affirmative action within their respective states. Conservative activists have alleged that colleges quietly use illegal quotas to increase the number of minorities and have launched numerous lawsuits to stop them.\n\nIndividuals of Māori or other Polynesian descent are often afforded improved access to university courses, or have scholarships earmarked specifically for them. Affirmative action is provided for under section 73 of the Human Rights Act 1993 and section 19(2) of the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990.\n\nSome Brazilian universities (state and federal) have created systems of preferred admissions (quotas) for racial minorities (blacks and Amerindians), the poor and people with disabilities. There are also quotas of up to 20% of vacancies reserved for people with disabilities in the civil public services. The Democrats party, accusing the board of directors of the University of Brasília of \"Nazism\", appealed to the Supreme Federal Court against the constitutionality of the quotas the University reserves for minorities. The Supreme Court unanimously approved their constitutionality on 26 April 2012.\n\nThe International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination stipulates (in Article 2.2) that affirmative action programs may be required of countries that ratified the convention, in order to rectify systematic discrimination. It states, however, that such programs \"shall in no case entail as a consequence the maintenance of unequal or separate rights for different racial groups after the objectives for which they were taken have been achieved\".\n\nThe United Nations Human Rights Committee states that \"the principle of equality sometimes requires States parties to take affirmative action in order to diminish or eliminate conditions which cause or help to perpetuate discrimination prohibited by the Covenant. For example, in a State where the general conditions of a certain part of the population prevent or impair their enjoyment of human rights, the State should take specific action to correct those conditions. Such action may involve granting for a time to the part of the population concerned certain preferential treatment in specific matters as compared with the rest of the population. However, as long as such action is needed to correct discrimination, in fact, it is a case of legitimate differentiation under the Covenant.\"\n\nThe principle of affirmative action is to promote societal equality through the preferential treatment of socioeconomically disadvantaged people. Often, these people are disadvantaged for historical reasons, such as oppression or slavery.\nHistorically and internationally, support for affirmative action has sought to achieve a range of goals: bridging inequalities in employment and pay; increasing access to education; enriching state, institutional, and professional leadership with the full spectrum of society; redressing apparent past wrongs, harms, or hindrances, in particular addressing the apparent social imbalance left in the wake of slavery and slave laws.\n\nA 2017 study found that affirmative action in the United States \"increases the black share of employees over time: in 5 years after an establishment is first regulated, the black share of employees increases by an average of 0.8 percentage points. Strikingly, the black share continues to grow at a similar pace even after an establishment is deregulated. One could argue that this persistence is driven in part by affirmative action inducing employers to improve their methods for screening potential hires.\"\n\nAccording to a poll taken by \"USA Today\" in 2005, the majority of Americans support affirmative action for women, while views on minority groups were more split. Men are only slightly more likely to support affirmative action for women; though a majority of both do. However, a slight majority of Americans do believe that affirmative action goes beyond ensuring access and goes into the realm of preferential treatment. More recently, a Quinnipiac poll from June 2009 finds that 55% of Americans feel that affirmative action in general should be discontinued, though 55% support it for people with disabilities. A Gallup poll from 2005 showed that 72% of black Americans and 44% of white Americans supported racial affirmative action (with 21% and 49% opposing), with support and opposition among Hispanics falling between those of blacks and whites. Support among blacks, unlike among whites, had almost no correlation with political affiliation.\n\nA 2009 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute survey found 65% of American voters opposed the application of affirmative action to gay people, with 27% indicating they supported it.\n\nA Leger poll taken in 2010 found 59% of Canadians opposed considering race, gender, or ethnicity when hiring for government jobs.\n\nA 2014 Pew Research Center poll found that 63% of Americans thought affirmative action programs aimed at increasing minority representation on college campuses were \"a good thing\", compared to 30% who thought they were \"a bad thing\". The following year, Gallup released a poll showing that 67% of Americans supported affirmative action programs aimed at increasing female representation, compared to 58% who supported such programs aimed at increasing the representation of racial minorities.\n\nOpponents of affirmative action such as George Sher believe that affirmative action devalues the accomplishments of people who are chosen based on the social group to which they belong rather than their qualifications, thus rendering affirmative action counterproductive. Opponents, who sometimes say that affirmative action is reverse discrimination, further claim that affirmative action has undesirable side-effects in addition to failing to achieve its goals. They argue that it hinders reconciliation, replaces old wrongs with new wrongs, undermines the achievements of minorities, and encourages individuals to identify themselves as disadvantaged, even if they are not. It may increase racial tension and benefit the more privileged people within minority groups at the expense of the least fortunate within majority groups (such as lower-class white people).\n\nOpponents claim that cases such as \"Fisher v. University of Texas\" are few of the many examples that show how reverse discrimination can take place. In 2008, Abigail Fisher, who is a native to Texas, sued the University of Texas at Austin, claiming that she was denied admission to the university because she was \"white\". The students that are of top 10% in the applicants of the University of Texas are admitted and there are students that compete to barely make it in on the threshold, such as Abigail Fisher. In such cases, race becomes an important factor in deciding who gets admitted to the university, and Fisher argued that discriminating and accepting students according to their race is a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, which ensures equal protection of the law and the citizen's privilege as a citizen of United States. The constitutionality of affirmative action in college admissions is now back before the Supreme Court in the case \"Fisher v. University of Texas (2016)\".\n\nAmerican economist and social and political commentator, Thomas Sowell identified some negative results of race-based affirmative action in his book, \"Affirmative Action Around the World: An Empirical Study\". Sowell writes that affirmative action policies encourage non-preferred groups to designate themselves as members of preferred groups (i.e., primary beneficiaries of affirmative action) to take advantage of group preference policies; that they tend to benefit primarily the most fortunate among the preferred group (e.g., upper and middle class blacks), often to the detriment of the least fortunate among the non-preferred groups (e.g., poor whites or Asians); that they reduce the incentives of both the preferred and non-preferred to perform at their best – the former because doing so is unnecessary and the latter because it can prove futile – thereby resulting in net losses for society as a whole; and that they increase animosity toward preferred groups.\n\nMismatching is the term given to the supposed negative effect that affirmative action has when it places a student into a college that is too difficult for him or her. For example, according to the hypothesis, in the absence of affirmative action, a student will be admitted to a college that matches his or her academic ability and have a good chance of graduating. However, according to the mismatching hypothesis, affirmative action often places a student into a college that is too difficult, and this increases the student's chance of dropping out. Thus, according to the hypothesis, affirmative action hurts its intended beneficiaries, because it increases their dropout rate.\n\nEvidence in support of the mismatching theory was presented by Gail Heriot, a professor of law at the University of San Diego and a member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, in a 24 August 2007 article published in the \"Wall Street Journal\". The article reported on a 2004 study that was conducted by UCLA law professor Richard Sander and published in the \"Stanford Law Review\". The study concluded that there were 7.9% fewer black attorneys than there would have been if there had been no affirmative action. The study was titled, \"A Systemic Analysis of Affirmative Action in American Law Schools\". The article also states that because of mismatching, blacks are more likely to drop out of law school and fail bar exams.\n\nSander's paper on mismatching has been criticized by several law professors, including Ian Ayres and Richard Brooks from Yale who argue that eliminating affirmative action would actually reduce the number of black lawyers by 12.7%. A 2008 study by Jesse Rothstein and Albert H. Yoon confirmed Sander's mismatch findings, but also found that eliminating affirmative action would \"lead to a 63 percent decline in black matriculants at all law schools and a 90 percent decline at elite law schools\". These high numbers predictions were doubted in a review of previous studies by Peter Arcidiacono and Michael Lovenheim. Their 2016 article found a strong indication that affirmative action results in a mismatch effect. They argued that the attendance by some African-American students to less-selective schools would significantly improve the low first attempt rate at passing the state bar, but they cautioned that such improvements could be outweighed by decreases in law school attendance.\n\nA 2011 study proposed that mismatch can only occur when a selective school possesses private information that, had this information been disclosed, would have changed the student's choice of school. The study found that this is in fact the case for Duke University, and that this information predicts the student's academic performance after beginning college.\n\nA 2016 study on affirmative action in India fails to find evidence for the mismatching hypothesis. In India 90% IIT-Roorkee dropouts are backward caste.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1825210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825210", "title": "Albin Polasek", "text": "Albin Polasek\n\nAlbin Polasek (February 14, 1879 – May 19, 1965) was a Czech-American sculptor and educator. He created more than four hundred works during his career, two hundred of which are now displayed in the Albin Polasek Museum & Sculpture Gardens in Winter Park, Florida.\n\nBorn as Albín Polášek in Frenštát, Moravia, part of the Austria-Hungary (now in the Czech Republic), Polasek apprenticed as a wood carver in Vienna. At the age of 22 he emigrated to the United States and began formal art training at age 25 under Charles Grafly at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia. As a student, he first produced \"Man Carving His Own Destiny\" (1907) and \"Eternal Moment\" (1909). In 1909, Polasek became an American citizen; in 1910, he won the Rome Prize competition; in 1913, he received honorable mention at the Paris Salon for \"The Sower;\" in 1915, he took the Widener Gold Medal from the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts for his sculpture \"Aspiration.\"\n\nAt age 37, after periods of residence in Rome and New York City, he was invited to head the sculpture department at the Art Institute of Chicago, where he remained for nearly thirty years. While there he created the original \"Forest Idyll\"; \"Victorious Christ\" for St. Cecelia's Cathedral in Omaha, Nebraska; Kenilworth Memorial relief, Kenilworth, Illinois; \"The Spirit of Music\" in Grant Park in Chicago; the \"Woodrow Wilson Memorial in Prague, Czech Republic; Governor Richard Yates sculpture, capital grounds, Springfield, Illinois; and many other works. Polasek was elected an Associate Member of the National Academy of Design in 1927, and full member in 1933.\n\nAlbin Polasek was a close friend of fellow artist Louis Grell while he lived at Tree Studios in Chicago. The Grell Family archive collection contains letters by Grell discussing Polasek's move to Florida and becoming ill shortly after.\n\nIn 1950, Polasek retired at age 70 to Winter Park, Florida. Within months he suffered a stroke that left his left side paralyzed; he subsequently completed eighteen major works with his right hand only, including \"Victory of Moral Law\", the artist's comment on the 1956 Hungarian Revolution. Towards the end of 1950, at age 71, he married former student Ruth Sherwood who died 22 months later in October, 1952. In 1961, Polasek married Emily Muska Kubat. Upon his death in 1965, Polasek was buried beside his first wife in Winter Park's Palm Cemetery, where his \"12th Station of the Cross\" (1939) is his monument. Emily M. K. Polasek died in 1988.\n\nPolasek's better-known works include the \"Theodore Thomas Memorial\" (1924), the \"Masaryk Memorial\" (1941) in Chicago, the \"Wilson Memorial\" (1928), \"Radigast\" (1929) and \"Sts. Cyril and Methodius\" (1929) in the Czech Republic. His \"Mother Crying Over the World\" (1942) was a response to World War II, and his \"Victory of Moral Law\" (1956) to the Hungarian Revolution.\n\nLike many other sculptors of his era, Polasek created several cemetery memorials. Notable among those are \"The Pilgrim\" and \"The Mother\" (1927), both located in the Bohemian National Cemetery in Chicago, and the \"Pilgrim at the Eternal Gate\" in Lake View Cemetery in Cleveland. Pictures of all three are featured in both biographies listed in the sources section.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32571796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32571796", "title": "BMW Guggenheim Lab", "text": "BMW Guggenheim Lab\n\nThe BMW Guggenheim Lab is a collaboration between the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and the BMW Group. It is an interdisciplinary mobile laboratory that visited three cities around the world between 2011 and 2013. The lab is part urban think tank, part community center, and part gathering space, and explores issues of urban life through public programming and discourse. Three different structures were to house the lab over the life of the project, each of which would travel to three cities. The lab has an advisory committee of experts and is operated by a lab team.\n\nThe Lab was expected to travel to nine cities over the course of six years. In 2013, however, BMW ended its support of the project, and the project ended in 2014, with an exhibition in New York.\n\nThe concept behind the lab was developed by David van der Leer, assistant curator, architecture and urban studies, and Maria Nicanor, assistant curator, architecture, Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. The lab's advisory committee is composed of internationally renowned experts in a range of fields and nominates members for each city's lab team, an interdisciplinary group that will help create the programming for that location.\n\nThree different structures were to house the lab over the life of the project, each of which could be moved and would travel to three cities. Only one structure was built. It was designed by the Tokyo-based architecture firm Atelier Bow-Wow. Seoul-based graphic designers Sulki & Min created the graphic identity for the project, including an interactive logo that changed over the course of the project.\n\nThe lab's three-city cycle was designed around the theme \"Confronting Comfort\", which explores ways of making urban environments more responsive to people's needs, striking a balance between individual and collective comfort, and promoting environmental and social responsibility. The program was designed to proactively engage residents from each city, and participants on the Internet and from around the world, in free programs and experiments, and it addressed ideas and issues of particular relevance to each city. The Advisory Committee members are: Daniel Barenboim, Elizabeth Diller, Nicholas Humphrey, Muchadeyi Masunda, Enrique Peñalosa, Juliet Schor, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and Wang Shi.\n\nThe lab was open from August 3 to October 16, 2011, in New York City's East Village and was attended by over 54,000 visitors from 60 countries. Members of the New York Lab Team were Omar Freilla, founder and coordinator of Green Worker Cooperatives, Bronx, New York; Charles Montgomery, Canadian journalist and urban experimentalist; Olatunbosun Obayomi, Nigerian microbiologist and inventor; and architects and urbanists Elma van Boxel and Kristian Koreman, founders of Zones Urbaines Sensible, Rotterdam. The first Public Programs Manager in New York City was Rosanna Flouty.\n\nFrom June 15 to July 29, 2012, the lab was open in Pfefferberg, a complex of galleries and artist studios in Prenzlauer Berg, Berlin. Members of the Berlin Lab were José Gómez-Márquez, program director for the Innovations in International Health Initiative (IIH) at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); Italian architect and engineer Carlo Ratti, who directs the MIT Senseable City Lab; Berlin-based artist Corinne Rose, who works with photography and video and teaches at the Bern University of the Arts, Switzerland; and Rachel Smith, principal transport planner with AECOM, based in Brisbane. The programming of the Berlin Lab focused on four main topics: Empowerment Technologies (Gómez-Márquez), Dynamic Connections (Smith), Urban Micro-Lens (Rose) and the Senseable (SENSEable) City (Ratti).\n\nThe lab opened in Mumbai, India on December 9, 2012 and ran until January 20, 2013. The central location was on the grounds of the Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum in Mumbai’s Byculla neighborhood, with additional satellite locations around the city. The lab's team consisted of Aisha Dasgupta, a British demographer based in Malawi; Neville Mars, a Dutch architect based in China; Trupti Amritwar Vaitla, an architect and urban transport designer from Mumbai; and Héctor Zamora, a Mexican artist based in Brazil. Along with neighborhood-specific public programming, the Mumbai Lab program included participatory research studies and design projects, including a competition to redesign Mumbai's Kala Nagar Junction.\n\nThe program concluded with an exhibition, \"Participatory City: 100 Urban Trends from the BMW Guggenheim Lab\", which was on view at the New York museum from October 2013 through January 5, 2014. The exhibition featured photos and videos from the Lab's public programs and displayed 100 terms representing the \"most-talked about words\" during the Lab's activities in New York, Berlin, and Mumbai.\n\n"}
{"id": "40849422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849422", "title": "Barrow v The Master", "text": "Barrow v The Master\n\nIn Barrow v The Master, an important case in South African succession law, the testator had convinced his son to leave his job and take over the management and farming operations on the farm “Longridge” from him. To assist him, the testator bought another farm “Meldene” for his son (the son paid a small portion of this) to live on while managing Longridge. Because the son was finding it inconvenient and difficult to manage the farming operations on Longridge while living at Meldene the testator decided to sell 'Longridge' for a net price of £10,000 and undertook to give his son the sum of £262 which he calculated would be the amount of the selling agent's commission. The farm was sold and another smaller farm called “Patchwood” was purchased. In his will the testator had bequeathed Longridge to his two sons in equal shares. Thus when the testator died, his son claimed for his half share in the farm Patchwood. The claim to Patchwood is founded on a promise by the testator during his lifetime to donate to his son a farm to the value of at least £5,000. Alternatively, the son claimed that the bequest of a half-share of Longridge had not been adeemed. On the first argument, the court held that the testator had settled his promise by purchasing the farm Meldene for his son. Furthermore, the court held that the purchase of Patchwood was effected to replace the facilities for farming that his son would lose by the sale of Longridge, not that the farm was actually for him. On the second argument, the court rejected the contention that the testator felt obliged to sell the farm because his son was finding it difficult to manage it and it was thus not voluntary. The court held that involuntary alienations only arise out of necessity such as pressing debts. Thus the alienation was voluntary and the bequest had adeemed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8770372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8770372", "title": "Bryce's Base Ball Guide", "text": "Bryce's Base Ball Guide\n\nBryce's Base Ball Guides were two annual Canadian baseball publications, in 1876 and 1877, which provided information to baseball fans and players.\n\nA treasure-trove of information about early Canadian baseball as well as the International Association, they came to light in 2002 when Library and Archives Canada purchased (for $10,000 from an Ottawa bookseller) \"Bryce's Base Ball Guide of 1876\" and \"Bryce's Base Ball Guide of 1877\", two hand-coloured, 75-page booklets published by William Bryce of London, Ontario. They originally sold for a dime. \n\nThe two, four-inch by seven-inch guides are considered to be the first significant publications on Canadian (and American) baseball. Bryce, a Scottish-born bookseller, news agent and sporting goods distributor in London, had a small stake in the London Tecumsehs, considered by many to be the finest ball team in Canada.\n\nDuring President George W. Bush's visit to the Library and Archives Canada building on November 30, 2004, he showed a special interest in these two early Canadian baseball books which were laid out for his perusal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2388402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2388402", "title": "Capitoline Museums", "text": "Capitoline Museums\n\nThe Capitoline Museums (Italian: \"Musei Capitolini\") is a single museum containing a group of art and archaeological museums in Piazza del Campidoglio, on top of the Capitoline Hill in Rome, Italy. The historic seats of the museums are Palazzo dei Conservatori and Palazzo Nuovo, facing on the central trapezoidal piazza in a plan conceived by Michelangelo in 1536 and executed over a period of more than 400 years. The history of the museums can be traced to 1471, when Pope Sixtus IV donated a collection of important ancient bronzes to the people of Rome and located them on the Capitoline Hill. Since then, the museums' collection has grown to include a large number of ancient Roman statues, inscriptions, and other artifacts; a collection of medieval and Renaissance art; and collections of jewels, coins, and other items. The museums are owned and operated by the municipality of Rome.\n\nThe statue of a mounted rider in the centre of the piazza is of Emperor Marcus Aurelius. It is a copy, the original being housed on-site in the Capitoline museum. \n\nOpened to the public in 1734 under Clement XII, the Capitoline Museums are considered the first museum in the world, understood as a place where art could be enjoyed by all and not only by the owners.\n\n\"This section contains collections sorted by building, and brief information on the buildings themselves. For the history of their design and construction, see Capitoline Hill#Michelangelo.\"\n\nThe Capitoline Museums are composed of three main buildings surrounding the Piazza del Campidoglio and interlinked by an underground gallery beneath the piazza.\n\nThe three main buildings of the Capitoline Museums are:\n\n\nIn addition, the 16th century Palazzo Caffarelli-Clementino, located off the piazza adjacent to the Palazzo dei Conservatori, was added to the museum complex in the early 20th century.\n\nThe collections here are ancient sculpture, mostly Roman but also Greek and Egyptian.\n\nFeatures the relief from the honorary monument to Marcus Aurelius.\n\nThe second floor of the building is occupied by the Conservator's Apartment, a space now open to the public and housing such famous works as the bronze she-wolf nursing Romulus and Remus, which has become the emblem of Rome. The Conservator's Apartment is distinguished by elaborate interior decorations, including frescoes, stuccos, tapestries, and carved ceilings and doors.\n\nThe third floor of the Palazzo dei Conservatori houses the Capitoline Art Gallery, housing the museums' painting and applied art galleries. The Capitoline Coin Cabinet, containing collections of coins, medals, jewels, and jewelry, is located in the attached Palazzo Caffarelli-Clementino.\n\nStatues, inscriptions, sarcophagi, busts, mosaics, and other ancient Roman artifacts occupy two floors of the Palazzo Nuovo.\n\nIn the Hall of the Galatian can also be appreciated the marble statue of the \"Dying Gaul\" also called “Capitoline Gaul” and the statue of \"Cupid and Psyche\". Also housed in this building are:\n\nThe Galleria Congiunzione is located beneath the Palazzo dei Conservatori and the piazza itself, and links the three palazzos sitting on the piazza. The gallery was constructed in the 1930s. It contains \"in situ\" 2nd century ruins of ancient Roman dwellings, and also houses the Galleria Lapidaria, which displays the Museums' collection of epigraphs.\n\nThe new great glass covered hall — the \"Sala Marco Aurelio\" — created by covering the Giardino Romano is similar to the one used for the Sala Ottagonale and British Museum Great Court. The design is by the architect Carlo Aymonino. Its volume recalls that of the oval space designed by Michelangelo for the piazza.\n\nIts centerpiece is the bronze equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius, which was once in the centre of Piazza del Campidoglio and has been kept indoors ever since its modern restoration. Moving these statues out of the palazzo allows those sculptures temporarily moved to the Centrale Montemartini to be brought back. It also houses the remaining fragments of the bronze Colossus of Constantine and the archaeological remains of the tuff foundations of the temple of Capitoline Jupiter, with a model, drawn and computer reconstructions and finds dating from the earliest occupation on the site (in the mid Bronze Age: 17th-14th centuries B.C.) to the foundation of the temple (6th century BC).\n\nIn the three halls adjacent to the \"Appartamento dei Conservatori\" are to be found the showcases of the famous Castellani Collection with a part of the set of Greek and Etruscan vases that was donated to the municipality of Rome by Augusto Castellani in the mid-19th century.\n\nThe Centrale Montemartini is a former power station of (active as a power-station between the 1890s and 1930s) in southern Rome, between Piramide and the basilica of San Paolo Fuori le Mura, close to the Metro station Garbatella. \nIn 1997, the Centrale Montemartini was adapted to temporarily accommodate a part of the antique sculpture collection of the Capitoline museums, at that time closed for renovation; the temporary exhibition was so appreciated that the venue was eventually converted into a permanent museum. \nIts permanent collection comprises 400 ancient statues, moved here during the reorganisation of the Capitoline Museums in 1997, along with tombs, busts, and mosaics. Many of them were excavated in the ancient Roman horti (e.g. the Gardens of Sallust) between the 1890s and 1930s, a fruitful period for Roman archaeology. They are displayed there along the lines of Tate Modern, except that (unlike there) the machinery has \"not\" been moved out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2337229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2337229", "title": "Comparative military ranks of Korea", "text": "Comparative military ranks of Korea\n\nThe Comparative military ranks of Korea are the military insignia used by the two nations on the Korean Peninsula, those being the Republic of Korea Armed Forces (South Korea) and the Korean People's Army of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea). The United States Forces Korea personnel wear the ranks and insignia used by other service personnel of the United States Armed Forces in the territories of the United States.\n\nIn the South Korean armed forces, ranks fall into one of four categories: commissioned officer, warrant officer, non-commissioned officer, and enlisted, in decreasing order of authority. Commissioned officer ranks are subdivided into \"\"Janggwan\"-level (general) officers, \"Yeonggwan\"-level (field-grade) officers, and \"Wi-gwan\"\"-level (company-grade) officers. The ranks of all three branches (the Army, Navy, and Air Force) of the South Korean Armed Forces share the same titles in Hangul. Most ranks of South and North Korea are identical, with some exceptions such as the supreme North Korean ranks.\n\nThe following table lists the comparative ranks of the militaries in Korea, including their rank titles and insignia. In this table, the North Korean military rank insignia shown is that of their Army field uniform shoulder boards; their parade uniforms and uniforms of other branches use alternative color schemes with the same basic design. The South Korean likewise have subdued versions of their insignia in each of their branches.\n\nThese ranks are honorary ranks and are not considered part of the main rank scheme.\nThe shoulder boards and sleeve stripes of South Korean ranks apply only to their navies. The ROK Marine Corps does not maintains a five star \"General\" rank. North Korea's People's Army does not maintain a separate marine corps or naval infantry branch as part of their armed forces, although it does maintain two \"Amphibious Sniper Brigades\" as part of the North Korean Special Operation Force (NKSOF). North Korean insignia follow the Soviet pattern, while South Korean insignia follow a mix of United States and British rank insignia traditions.\n\nBoth North Korea and South Korea share the same enlisted rank structure among all of their military branches. They also have enlisted ranks called \"Corporal\" and \"Sergeant\" in English, but they are not considered non-commissioned officer ranks, though they are treated as one if they hold an NCO position.\n\nAll branches of the South Korean armed forces maintain a single Warrant Officer rank known as \"Junwi\". Warrant Officers fall in between non-commissioned and commissioned officers. The rank is denoted by a gold-colored \"Sowi\" insignia and, in the case of the South Korean Navy, a single broken sleeve stripe. The North Korean military does not maintain any equivalent Warrant Officer positions.\n\nEnlisted rank insignia differ however: The ROKAF uses a mix of American, British, and French practice while the KPA's insignia follow Soviet practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "22371791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22371791", "title": "Comparison of optical character recognition software", "text": "Comparison of optical character recognition software\n\nThis comparison of optical character recognition software includes:\n"}
{"id": "17916834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17916834", "title": "De rebus Hispaniae", "text": "De rebus Hispaniae\n\nDe rebus Hispaniae or Historia gothica is a history of the Iberian peninsula written in Latin by Archbiship of Toledo Rodrigo Jiménez de Rada in the first half of the thirteenth century on behalf of King Ferdinand III of Castile. \n\n\"De rebus Hispaniae\" consists of nine books that contain the history of the peninsula from the first peoples to the year 1243. For the first time in Spanish historiography, Jiménez de Rada used sources from Al Andalus and developed a view of all the peninsular territories including the kingdoms of Aragon, Navarre, Portugal, Castile, León and León's predecessor the Kingdom of Asturias. The book dedicates a large section to the dominion of the Visigothic Kingdom; the chapter entitled, \"historia gothica\", is very extensive and detailed. Other sections cover the other different peninsular peoples: Romans, Ostrogoths, Huns, Vandals, Suebi, Alans, Arabs, etc.\n\nThis work was widely accepted and was translated into most of the Romance languages. Over the centuries it has been a crucial source for the study of the History of Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "7122174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7122174", "title": "Eerste Nederlandse Systematisch Ingerichte Encyclopaedie", "text": "Eerste Nederlandse Systematisch Ingerichte Encyclopaedie\n\nThe Eerste Nederlandse Systematisch Ingerichte Encyclopaedie (abbr. E.N.S.I.E., \"First Dutch Systematically Arranged Encyclopaedia\"), is a Dutch language encyclopaedia in ten volumes of which the first volume appeared in 1946 and the last part, the alphabetical lexicon, in 1952. It was published in Amsterdam under the redaction of Prof. Dr H. J. Pos, Prof. Dr J. M. Romein, Prof. Dr H. A. Kramers, Dr O. Noordenbos and others.\n\nThe volumes I through IX discuss various subjects in their context. The full size of the ten volumes measures around half a meter.\n\n"}
{"id": "296853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=296853", "title": "Enchiridion", "text": "Enchiridion\n\nEnchiridion is a Late Latin term (derived from the Greek word ἐγχειρίδιον (\"enkheiridion\")) referring to a small manual or handbook. Some notable enchiridia include:\n"}
{"id": "3960329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3960329", "title": "Idem sonans", "text": "Idem sonans\n\nIdem sonans is a legal doctrine whereby a person's identity is presumed known despite the misspelling of his or her name. The presumption lies in the similarity between the Phonology, or sounds of the correct name and the name as written. Such similar-sounding words are called a homonym, while similar-sounding phrases or names would be a holorime.\n\nIn Latin it means \"Sounding the same.\" Some examples are Seagrave/Segrave, Hutson/Hudson, Coonrad/Conrad, Keen/Keene, and Diadema/Deadema.\n\nUnder UK jurisdiction, there has been an incredibly small amount of judicial activity here. The old judgment of \"R v Davis\" provides:\nThe modern case of \"Re Vidiofusion Ltd\" establishes a four-stage test when a name of a company is spelled differently in writing:\n\nRemnants of this common law doctrine exist today in the United States in the Uniform Commercial Code. Name changes can mislead searchers of official records of titles or liens. Article 9 of the UCC states that a financing statement shall not perfect a valid security interest if a name change would be \"seriously misleading.\". A creditor may gain priority over other creditors in the event of a bankruptcy by filing a financing statement. The financing statement contains information relevant to the secured transaction and puts other creditors on notice that the filer has a secured interest in the property. Should the filer use a debtor name that is substantially different from the debtor's actual name, the purpose of filing the financing statement is defeated. On the other hand, if there is a minor difference in spelling or an \"idem sonans\", the error is not fatal, but only if it is not seriously misleading. The actual search results may reveal a debtor with a similar name and address which would put the researcher on notice to investigate further, which is the purpose of the filing in the first place. The legal effect of an \"idem sonans\" is that the minor name difference shall have no bearing on the priority of debtors.\n\nThere is some movement away from this doctrine under modern New York Common law, especially in Conveyancing. That means that a creditor filing a judgment lien or a title abstract company searching title to real property by a deed filed in an office of a county clerk must search by exact name, and can not rely on \"idem sonans\".\n\nCalifornia is also showing movement from this common law doctrine in transfer of property. The court held that for the \"purposes of identification\" the doctrine applies, but refused to allow it in the transfer of real property. New Hampshire Supreme Court in 1994 took a stance on this doctrine and said \"We concur with the court in Orr that \"the simple alternative is to require [attachment creditors] simply to spell the names of their ... debtors properly.\"\" \n\n"}
{"id": "46658409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46658409", "title": "Illyrian Armorials", "text": "Illyrian Armorials\n\nThe Illyrian Armorials () (Albanian: Pallto ilire), are group of armorials compiled from mainly fictional medieval coats of arms, among which there can be found several actual coats of arms, during the late 16th to mid 18th century. \nThese are an examples of the earliest (\"Interconfessional\") form of \"Illyrism\", idea and expression of the construct and notion of so-called \"Illyrian Empire\", which formed the ideological basis for the later rise of nationalism among South Slavs in the Balkans.\n\nThe Illyrian Armorials includes the following armorials, with estimated dates in brackets:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "632500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632500", "title": "Indian prawn", "text": "Indian prawn\n\nThe Indian prawn (\"Fenneropenaeus indicus\", formerly \"Penaeus indicus\"), is one of the major commercial prawn species of the world. It is found in the Indo-West Pacific from eastern and south-eastern Africa, through India, Malaysia and Indonesia to southern China and northern Australia. Adult shrimp grow to a length of about and live on the seabed to depths of about . The early developmental stages take place in the sea before the larvae move into estuaries. They return to the sea as sub-adults.\n\nThe Indian prawn is used for human consumption and is the subject of a sea fishery, particularly in China, India, Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand. It is also the subject of an aquaculture industry, the main countries involved in this being Saudi Arabia, Vietnam, Iran and India. For this, wild seed is collected or young shrimps are reared in hatcheries and kept in ponds as they grow. The ponds may be either extensive with reliance on natural foods, with rice paddy fields being used in India after the monsoon period, or semi-intensive or intensive, with controlled feeding. Harvesting is by drainage of the pond.\n\n\"F. indicus\" is known by many common names around the world, including \"Indian white prawn\", \"Tugela prawn\", \"white prawn\", \"banana prawn\", \"Indian banana prawn\" and \"red leg banana prawn\", some of which may also apply to the related species \"Fenneropenaeus merguiensis\". The name \"white shrimp\" may also refer to other species.\n\nThe Indian prawn is commonly called \"Chingri, Jhinga, Sungat\" in Bengali, Hindi and Marathi respectively.\nIt is called \"Eraa\" in Tamil Nadu.\nIt is called \"Chemeen ചെമ്മീൻ\" in Kerala. It is called \"Royya\" in Telugu. It is called \"shettly ಶೆಟ್ಲಿ\" in Kannada. \n\n\"F. indicus\" is a marine decapod with estuarine juveniles. It prefers mud or sandy mud at depths of . It grows to and has a life span of 18 months. After hatching, free-swimming nauplii are obtained, which further passes through protozoea, mysis and then to postlarval stage, which resembles the adult prawn. The postlarvae migrate to the estuaries, feed and grow until they attain a length of 110–120 mm, and these sub adults return to the sea and get recruited into fishery. It is also commonly used in shrimp farming.\n\nThe world’s production of shrimp is about 6 million tonnes, of which approximately 3.4 million tonnes is contributed by capture fisheries and 2.4 tonnes by aquaculture. China and four other Asian countries, including India, Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand, together account for 55% of the capture fisheries.\nAmong the shrimp, the contribution of \"F. indicus\" to global fisheries was around 2.4%, and to global farmed shrimp production was 1.2% in 2005. Currently \"F. indicus\" is mainly cultured in Saudi Arabia, Vietnam, Islamic Republic of Iran and India. Saudi Arabia was the largest producer in 2005 at nearly 11,300 tonnes with Vietnam not far behind with 10,000 tonnes. In India \"F. indicus\" farming declined from 5200 tonnes in 2000 to 1100 tonnes in 2005 due to preference of farmers for \"P. monodon\".\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International added the Indian prawn to its seafood red list. Although the Indian prawn itself is not threatened, the methods used to capture it result in a large amount of bycatch, which includes endangered species such as sea turtles.\n\nProduction cycle of \"F. indicus\" follows the same steps as for other species of shrimp, i.e., seed production and Grow-out of the post larvae to marketable size. The sources of seeds and grow-out techniques can be differed as desired by the farmer to achieve a balance between the cost of production and the desired quantity of output.\n\nSeeds can be obtained from the wild or by establishment of hatcheries. In traditional paddy field systems the juveniles which have congregated near the sluice gates are allowed to enter the field with the incoming high tide. Among the prawn species entering the field \"F. indicus\" constitute around 36%–43%. Earlier wild seeds were also collected and sold to shrimp farmers. Nowadays the dependence on wild seed has been reduced due to establishment of hatcheries and also due to reduction in wild seeds due to overfishing.\n\nIntensification of cultured shrimp is limited by seed supply. The production of seeds in hatcheries depends on the availability of broodstock and quality of spawners. Spawners for seed production can be obtained from the wild or can be developed by induced maturation in hatcheries.\n\nMatured individuals can be collected from the wild during their peak spawning seasons in March/April and July/August in the tropics. A temperature range of and salinity of 30‰–35‰ is ideal for spawning.\n\nAlthough hatcheries in the developing countries still depend on wild seed, maturation can be induced by eyestalk ablation technique where eyestalks of females are unilaterally ablated to stimulate endocrine activity. The ablated females spawn after 4 days, with a peak observed at days 5–6. However it is expensive to raise spawners in captivity and ablated shrimps result in less hardy fry with low survival rate. Even though the fecundity of the ablated females may not differ significantly, the hatch rates of ablated females was found to be markedly less (37.8% to 58.1%) than that of unablated females (69.2%). It is also found that wild females are more fecund per unit weight than ablated females. However quantitatively the number of spawns, eggs and nauplii produced by ablated females is ten, eight and six times respectively that of unablated females.\n\nThe size of females used for broodstock and spawning should preferably be above be and males above , as they mature at approximately and respectively.\n\nCircular tanks of 2–5 tonnes capacity are used to rear larvae from nauplius to mysis stage. The salinity of water is maintained at around 32‰ and pH at 8.2. Feed is not provided to nauplius as it is a non-feeding stage. The protozoea stage is supplied with a mixed culture of diatoms dominated by \"Chaetoceros spp.\" or \"Skeletonema spp.\" at a concentration on around 30,000 to 40,000 cells per ml. The best algal density promoting highest survival, growth and fastest larval development is around 60–70 cells per μl. From the mysis stage they are also fed with artemia nauplii and egg-prawn-custard mix. Post larval rearing can be continued in the same tank and post-larvae (PL) are fed with minced mussel meat, mantis shrimp powder or variety of other fresh feeds of particle size 200–1000 µm till they reach PL-20 (day 20 of post-larva). After PL-20 stage they can be stocked directly into grow-out ponds without acclimatization.\n\nGrow-out techniques can be extensive, semi-intensive or intensive.\n\nThis is the traditional system of shrimp farming which involves stocking of the wild seed with incoming tidal water is practiced in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Myanmar, Philippines, and Vietnam. On the southwest coast of India, low-lying coastal paddy fields are used for growing salinity tolerant variety of paddy called ‘pokkali’ and shrimp farming is carried out post monsoon during November to April. It takes an average of 150–180 days for a single crop to be ready to harvest. The estimated production of prawn-cum-paddy culture varies from 400 to 1200 kg/ha for six months period. \"F. indicus\" forms about 36%–43% of the total yield of shrimp which can go up to 400–900 kg/ha/yr. Extensive culture can be made more productive by construction of artificial ponds, use of aeration and supplementing with artificial diet. This can increase the productivity to 871.5 kg/ha/320 days in mixed culture of prawns. Monoculture of \"F.indicus\" can yield a net profit of up to Rs.8000 (approx. US$180–200) per hectare per annum for 2 crops.\n\nCompared with traditional type of management, semi-intensive production are on a relatively smaller scale with 0.2–2 hectare ponds and also deeper 1.0–1.5 m. Stock densities can range from 20–25 PL/m2 using hatchery derived seeds for monoculture. Natural feeds are grown by application of fertilizers and supplementary feeds are also given during the culture at a rate of 4–5 times a day. Water exchange at the rate of 30%–40% is carried out using pumps. Supplementary aeration is also provided using 4–6 aerators per hectare. A culture period may last from 100–150 days depending on various factors.\n\nIntensive farming is tightly controlled system of farming with very less dependence on natural foods and high level of mechanization. The ponds are also usually very small (0.1–1 ha), and the stocking density very high (50–100 PL/m2). Water exchange of around 30% daily is essential to avoid degradation of water due to high stocking density and feeding rate (5–7 times/day). Production level of around 10,000–20,000 kg/ha/yr can be achieved. A culture period lasts from 120–140 days.\n\nIn traditional farming harvesting is done by fitting conical nets on the sluice gates and opening them during low tide. The shrimp are trapped in the net as the water recedes. The remaining shrimp are harvested by cast netting. In semi-intensive and intensive practices, harvesting is done by complete draining of the pond. The rest of the shrimp are collected by hand.\n\nProduction cost depends on type of culture used, scale of production, number of production cycles per year, etc. It is estimated that seed production cost was US$1.6/1000. The cost of adult shrimp can range from US$4–5/kg.\n\nThe Indian shrimp has a relatively lower market value than \"P. monodon\". Average price of white shrimp is US$5.5/kg for a size range of 21/25 shrimps per kg, while for \"P. monodon\" it is US7-13/kg. However, as \"F. indicus\" is more easily bred and reared, the relative profit gained by \"F.indicus\" may be higher per input than it seems from the above figures.\n\nTraditionally the shrimp are exported as head-on, headless, tail-on or frozen in blocks. The profit can be increased by value-addition to the shrimp in the form of shrimp pickles, cutlets, battered, ready-to-cook, etc.\n"}
{"id": "18852926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18852926", "title": "International Standard Name Identifier", "text": "International Standard Name Identifier\n\nThe International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI) is an identifier for uniquely identifying the public identities of contributors to media content such as books, television programmes, and newspaper articles. Such an identifier consists of 16 digits. It can optionally be displayed as divided into four blocks.\n\nISNI can be used to disambiguate names that might otherwise be confused, and links the data about names that are collected and used in all sectors of the media industries.\n\nIt was developed under the auspices of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) as Draft International Standard 27729; the valid standard was published on 15 March 2012. The ISO technical committee 46, subcommittee 9 (TC 46/SC 9) is responsible for the development of the standard.\n\n2013-09-01 \"INTERNATIONAL STANDARD ISO 27729:2012 TECHNICAL CORRIGENDUM 1\" was published.\n\nThe FAQ of the isni.org websites states \"An ISNI is made up of 16 digits, the last character being a check character.\" \n\n\nIn display it is frequently shown with spaces.\n\nThe ISNI allows a single identity (such as an author's pseudonym or the imprint used by a publisher) to be identified using a unique number. This unique number can then be linked to any of the numerous other identifiers that are used across the media industries to identify names and other forms of identity.\n\nAn example of the use of such a number is the identification of a musical performer who is also a writer both of music and of poems. Where he or she might currently be identified in many different databases using numerous private and public identification systems, under the ISNI system, he or she would have a single linking ISNI record. The many different databases could then exchange data about that particular identity without resorting to messy methods such as comparing text strings. An often quoted example in the English language world is the difficulty faced when identifying 'John Smith' in a database. While there may be many records for 'John Smith', it is not always clear which record refers to the specific 'John Smith' that is required.\n\nIf an author has published under several different names or pseudonyms, each such name will receive its own ISNI.\n\nISNI can be used by libraries and archives when sharing catalogue information; for more precise searching for information online and in databases, and it can aid the management of rights across national borders and in the digital environment.\n\nORCID (Open Researcher and Contributor ID) identifiers consist of a reserved block of ISNI identifiers for scholarly researchers and administered by a separate organisation. Individual researchers can create and claim their own ORCID identifier. The two organisations coordinate their efforts.\n\nAccording to ISO the Registration Authority for ISO 27729:2012 is the \"ISNI International Agency\". It is located in London (c/o EDItEUR)\n\nIt is incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 as a private company limited by guarantee.\n\nThe 'International Agency' is commonly known as the ISNI-IA.\n\nThis UK registered, not-for-profit company has been founded by a consortium of organisations consisting of the Confédération Internationale des Sociétés d'Auteurs et Compositeurs (CISAC), the Conference of European National Librarians (CENL), the International Federation of Reproduction Rights Organisations (IFRRO), the International Performers Database Association (IPDA), the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC) and ProQuest. It is managed by directors nominated from these organisations and, in the case of CENL, by representatives of the Bibliothèque nationale de France and the British Library.\n\nA registration agency provides the interface between ISNI applicants and the ISNI Assignment Agency.\n\nISNI members (ISNI-IA Members) -07-11:\n\n\nISNI-IA uses an assignment system comprising a user interface, data-schema, disambiguation algorithms, and database that meets the requirements of the ISO standard, while also using existing technology where possible. The system is based primarily on the Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) service, which has been developed by OCLC for use in the aggregation of library catalogues.\n\nAccess to the assignment system and database, and to the numbers that are generated as the output of the process, are controlled by independent bodies known as 'registration agencies'. These registration agencies deal directly with customers, ensuring that data is provided in appropriate formats and recompensing the ISNI-IA for the cost of maintaining the assignment system. Registration agencies are appointed by ISNI-IA but will be managed and funded independently.\n\n ISNI holds public records of over 9.41 million identities, including 8.757 million individuals (of which 2.606 million are researchers) and 654,074 organisations.\n\nIn 2018, YouTube became an ISNI registry, and announced its intention to begin creating ISNI IDs for the musicians whose videos it features. ISNI anticipates the number of ISNI IDs \"going up by perhaps 3-5 million over the next couple of years\" as a result.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8227871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8227871", "title": "Jerilderie Letter", "text": "Jerilderie Letter\n\nThe handwritten document known as the Jerilderie Letter was dictated by Australian bushranger Ned Kelly to fellow Kelly Gang member Joe Byrne in 1879. It is one of only two original Kelly letters known to have survived.\n\nThe Jerilderie Letter is a 56-page document of approximately 8,000 words. In the letter Kelly tries to justify his actions, including the murder of three policemen in October 1878 at Stringybark Creek. He describes cases of alleged police corruption and calls for justice for poor families.\n\nIt is a longer and more detailed version of the Cameron/Euroa Letter which Kelly sent to a member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly and the police in December 1878.\n\nThe document is named after the town of Jerilderie, New South Wales, where the Kelly Gang carried out an armed robbery in February 1879 during which Kelly tried to have his document published as a pamphlet. It was first called the 'Jerilderie Letter' by author Max Brown in his 1948 biography of Kelly, \"Australian Son.\"\n\nTwo copies were made of Ned Kelly's letter, one by publican John Hanlon and one by a government clerk. Only summaries of its contents were published during Kelly's lifetime: it was not published in full until 1930. The original and both handwritten copies have survived.\n\nEdward (Ned) Kelly was born in Victoria, Australia, around 1855. As a teenager he was in with the police and was arrested several times and served time in prison.\n\nIn mid-1878, following his mother's imprisonment on perjured police evidence and feeling that the police were harassing him, Kelly took to bushranging with his brother, Dan, Joe Byrne, and Steve Hart. They became known as the Kelly Gang.\n\nAfter the Kelly Gang shot dead three policemen at Stringybark Creek in Victoria in October 1878 they were declared outlaws. Reacting to the killings, the Victorian Government enacted the Felons' Apprehension Act 1878 which authorised any citizen to shoot a declared outlaw on sight. A substantial reward was offered for each member of the Kelly Gang, 'dead or alive'.\n\nOn 14 November 1878, the day before the members of the Kelly Gang were outlawed, a Victorian parliamentarian criticised the progress of the police hunt for the gang. In response to Donald Cameron’s criticism, Victorian Premier Graham Berry promised a 'searching enquiry' if sufficient evidence was provided. Kelly and Byrne read about this exchange in the newspapers and may have mistaken it as an opportunity to tell their side of the story. Kelly dictated a long letter to Byrne with the intention of sending it to Cameron.\n\nOn 9 December 1878, the Kelly Gang robbed the National Bank in Euroa, Victoria, after taking hostages at Younghusband's station nearby. Joe Byrne kept watch over the hostages at the station while the rest of the gang carried out the robbery, and some of the hostages recalled seeing Byrne working on a long letter.\n\nShortly after the Euroa robbery, Donald Cameron and Police Superintendent John Sadleir each received a copy of Kelly’s letter which he had signed 'Edward Kelly, enforced outlaw' and in which he attempted to tell his side of the events leading up to the killing of three policemen at Stringybark Creek in October 1878. The police advised against releasing the letter to the press for publication but reporters were permitted to read it. Newspaper accounts of the contents of Kelly's letter ranged from dismissive to sympathetic.\n\nKelly dictated his letter to fellow Kelly Gang member Joe Byrne sometime before the Gang's raid on the town of Jerilderie in southern New South Wales from 8 to 10 February 1879. Byrne then rewrote it in neater handwriting. The Jerilderie Letter appears to be a final version of the Cameron/Euroa letter that was circulated in December 1878.\n\nKelly took his document to Jerilderie where he intended to have it published as a pamphlet for public distribution. During the raid on the town, Kelly tried to find the town's newspaper editor and printer, Samuel Gill, aiming to have him print the letter. When he couldn’t find Gill, Kelly gave the letter to bank accountant Edwin Living demanding that he give it to Gill and warning \"Mind you get it printed, or you'll have me to reckon with next time we meet\". \nLiving ignored Kelly's demands and set off on horseback with the document towards Deniliquin, New South Wales, 50 miles away, from where he planned to catch a train to Melbourne. J.W. Tarleton, the bank's manager, followed Living to Deniliquin.\nWhen Living stopped to rest at John Hanlon's hotel eight miles from Deniliquin he gave an account of what had happened in Jerilderie. He allowed Hanlon to read Kelly's document and make a copy of the pages. The heading Hanlon gave to his copy of the letter is \"Ned Kelly's Confession\". The following morning Living and Tarleton took the train to Melbourne where they delivered Kelly's letter to the office of the Bank of New South Wales.\n\nAs with the Cameron/Euroa letter, the police advised against making Kelly's letter available to the public and it was not published in full until 1930. However, shortly after the Kelly Gang's raid on Jerilderie a summary of the contents of the letter was being published and commented on in Australian newspapers.\n\nIn July 1880 a government clerk made another copy of Kelly’s document when the prosecution case was being prepared for Kelly’s trial for murder in October 1880. The original was returned to Edwin Living after Kelly's trial and execution. \nKelly's document was first called the \"Jerilderie Letter\" by author Max Brown in his 1948 biography of Kelly called \"Australian Son\". Brown included the letter in full in his book and introduced it as an \"8,300 word statement I have called The Jerilderie Letter\".\n\nThe Jerilderie Letter is 56 pages long and contains approximately 8000 words. It is written in the first person on notepaper 20.3 x 12.5 cm in size. There is little punctuation and it is not grammatically correct, however it contains very few spelling mistakes.\n\nThe original letter includes an undated note written by Edwin Living stating that \"This is the document given to me by Ned Kelly when the Bank at Jerilderie was stuck up in Feby. 1879\".\n\nIn his document Kelly defends his bushranging actions, condemns the people he believed had wronged him and warns people not to defy him. He begins with the words \"Dear Sir, I wish to acquaint you with some of the occurrences of the present past and future ...\" and ends with a threat:\n\nI give fair warning to all those who has reason to fear me to sell out and give £10 out of every hundred towards the widow and orphan fund and do not attempt to reside in Victoria but as short a time as possible after reading this notice, neglect this and abide by the consequences, which shall be worse than the rust in the wheat in Victoria or the druth of a dry season to the grasshoppers in New South Wales I do not wish to give the order full force without giving timely warning but I am a widows son outlawed and my orders must be obeyed.\n\nThe Jerilderie Letter has been described as both Kelly's \"manifesto\" and his \"confession\". In it, Kelly admits to crimes but claims he was forced into becoming a criminal because of police persecution of himself and his family. He also gives his version of the killing of three police officers at Stringybark Creek in Victoria in October 1878, arguing that he shot the men in self-defence: \"... this cannot be called wilful murder for I was compelled to shoot them, or lie down and let them shoot me\".\n\nKelly's hatred of the police is evident in the Jerilderie Letter. He outlines cases of alleged police corruption and calls on corrupt policemen to resign. At one point he calls police officers \"a parcel of big ugly fat-necked wombat headed big bellied magpie legged narrow hipped splaw-footed sons of Irish Bailiffs or english landlords\".\n\nKelly calls for justice for his family and for other poor Irish families who had settled in the north-east of Victoria. He also demands that squatters share their property and wealth with the poor. The Jerilderie Letter expresses pro-Irish and anti-British attitudes.\n\nIn describing the brutalisation of Irish convicts in Australia, Kelly paraphrases lines from \"A Convict's Tour of Hell\" and \"The Convict's Lament on the Death of Captain Logan\", poems attributed to Frank the Poet (Francis MacNamara), a convict who was imprisoned in Port Arthur at the same time as John \"Red\" Kelly, Ned's father. It is speculated that \"Red\" Kelly passed on MacNamara's poetry to his son.\n\nTwo copies were made of Ned Kelly’s letter, one by publican John Hanlon and one by a government clerk. The original and both handwritten copies have survived.\n\nDuring the Kelly Gang's raid on Jerilderie, Kelly gave his document to bank accountant Edwin Living demanding that it be given to the town's newspaper editor for printing. Living ignored Kelly's threats and he and the bank's manager rode to nearby Deniliquin where they took a train to Melbourne to deliver the letter to the office of the Bank of New South Wales. After Kelly’s trial in October 1880 and execution on 11 November 1880 the letter was returned to Living and it remained in private hands until it was donated to the State Library of Victoria in 2000.\n\nOn his way to Deniliquin to catch a train to Melbourne with Kelly's document, Edwin Living stopped to rest at John Hanlon's hotel eight miles from Deniliquin. It is believed that Living allowed Hanlon to read the document and make a copy of it before Living left the hotel taking the original with him. A report at the time said Living had forgotten the document when he left Hanlon's hotel and Hanlon had made a copy before sending the original to the Bank of New South Wales in Melbourne.\n\nWhen Living called at Hanlon's hotel on his way back from Melbourne, he asked for the copy. Hanlon gave it to him after Living promised he would subsequently return it. The copy was not returned and Hanlon never saw his transcription again. The National Museum of Australia acquired Hanlon's copy in 2001.\n\nThe original document was temporarily made available to the Victorian Government in July 1880 so that a copy could be made for the Crown prosecution case against Kelly during his trial for murder later that year. However, Kelly's defence counsel objected to the copy of the letter being tendered as evidence. The government copy, now held by the Public Record Office Victoria, was the basis for all published versions of the Jerilderie Letter until November 2000 when the original was donated to the State Library of Victoria.\n\nOnly summaries of the contents of the Jerilderie Letter were published during Ned Kelly's lifetime. The first synopsis was published in newspapers within weeks of the Jerilderie raid, but it was not published in full until 1930.\n\nJerilderie schoolteacher William Elliott read Kelly's document soon after Edwin Living returned to Jerilderie from taking it to the Bank of New South Wales in Melbourne. Elliott gave a synopsis of the document to Jerilderie newspaper editor Samuel Gill and Gill wired the synopsis to Melbourne. The Melbourne \"Age\" published the synopsis on 18 February 1879.\n\nOn 22 February, Gill also published the synopsis in his \"Jerilderie Herald\" and \"Urana Gazette\". Other newspapers also published summaries of Kelly's document soon after the Jerilderie raid. At the end of its synopsis published on Friday 21 February 1879, the \"Burra Record\" (South Australia) concluded:\n\nThere is a boastful intemperate tone throughout the letter ... There is much in Kelly's letter unsuitable for publication, and it will consequently be withheld.\nThe full text of Kelly's document (with some corrections) was first published in \"The Register News-Pictorial\" (Adelaide, SA) in 1930 as part of a serialised account of the Kelly Gang by J.M.S. Davies called \"The Kellys Are Out!\". Between 1 November and 16 December 1930, \"The Kellys are Out!\" was also published in the Melbourne \"Herald\" with the Jerilderie Letter appearing in the 27 November to 2 December instalments. Teacher and activist J. J. Kenneally sued Davies claiming the serials were plagiarisations of his book \"Inner History of the Kelly Gang,\" published in 1929, and Davies' solicitors were forced to pay Kenneally compensation.\n\nMax Brown included Kelly's letter in full in his 1948 biography of Ned called \"Australian Son\". Brown was the first to call the document the 'Jerilderie Letter', which he introduced by saying:\nFollowing is an 8,300 word statement I have called The Jerilderie Letter. This is the document Kelly handed to Living. The text is from a copy of the original letter made in 1879 or 1880 by a government clerk, and is printed here with such spelling, punctuation, etc, as the clerk or Kelly and Byrne, or all three possessed.\n\nThe original and both copies of the Jerilderie Letter have been digitised and are available online.\n\nAustralian author Peter Carey has said that he was inspired to write his prize-winning novel \"True History of the Kelly Gang\" by Sidney Nolan's Ned Kelly paintings, the Jerilderie Letter and his admiration for James Joyce. Of his first reading of the Jerilderie Letter Carey said:\nSomewhere in the middle Sixties, I first came upon the 56-page letter which Kelly attempted to have printed when the gang robbed the bank in Jerilderie in 1879. It is an extraordinary document, the passionate voice of a man who is writing to explain his life, save his life, his reputation … And all the time there is this original voice - uneducated but intelligent, funny and then angry, and with a line of Irish invective that would have made Paul Keating envious. His language came in a great, furious rush that could not but remind you of far more literary Irish writers.\n\nAustralian artist Sidney Nolan has said that the main ingredients of his \"Kelly\" series of paintings were \"Kelly's own words, and Rousseau, and sunlight\". Kelly's words, including the Jerilderie Letter, \"fascinated Nolan with their blend of poetry and political engagement\".\n\n"}
{"id": "5148154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148154", "title": "Joseph Conrad bibliography", "text": "Joseph Conrad bibliography\n\nA chronological list of Joseph Conrad's works.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27426836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27426836", "title": "King's Library", "text": "King's Library\n\nThe King's Library was one of the most important collections of books and pamphlets of the Age of Enlightenment. Assembled by George III, this scholarly library of over 65,000 volumes was subsequently given to the British nation by George IV. It was housed in a specially built gallery in the British Museum from 1827 to 1997 and now forms part of the British Library. The term 'King's Library' was until recently also used to refer to the gallery in the British Museum built for the collection, which is now called the \"Enlightenment Gallery\" and displays a wide range of objects relating to the Enlightenment.\n\nWhen George III became king in 1760 he did not inherit a library of any size, as George II had given the Old Royal Library, including today's Royal manuscripts, to the British Museum three years earlier. As a learned man, George III had a genuine regard for learning, developed under the influence of his tutor the Earl of Bute. On becoming king he quickly began assembling a new collection of mainly scholarly works, the project beginning in earnest in 1762-3 with the purchase of the library of Joseph Smith. Smith had been collecting in Venice for several decades, acquiring books from a range of sources in north Italy and also buying through the international book trade. The collection was notable for its 260 incunabula, including many early Venetian and north Italian volumes with fine illumination and bindings. In total the king bought 6,000 volumes from Smith. These were not kept together in George III's library, but nevertheless can be identified by the word \"Smith\" marked in each volume by the king's librarian.\n\nThere do not seem to have been any further large purchases before 1766, perhaps because the library's staff were occupied with organising the books acquired from Smith. However, from 1766 onwards the king began to develop the collection significantly, spending an average of perhaps £1,500 per year on books for the rest of his reign. A particularly important period was 1768-71, when Frederick Augusta Barnard, one of the library staff, travelled extensively in Europe on the king's behalf, and made major purchases. Important acquisitions later came from the libraries of James West, Anthony Askew, Richard Farmer and Grimur Jonsson Thorkelin as each of these came on the market. Significant donations to the library included 27 incunabula given by Jacob Bryant in 1782.The acquisition of further titles continued in the last years of the king's reign, when due to his mental illness his affairs were managed by trustees.\n\nThe library was kept at the Queen's House, the residence later to be extended and renamed Buckingham Palace. There it occupied four specially built rooms. From at least the 1770s bookbinding was carried out on the premises, and by 1776 the bindery occupied five rooms in the basement. The library style of binding can be described as 'fine, but not extravagant'. Richard Dalton, employed as a librarian by George III from 1755 onwards, was in charge of the collection until 1774. He was followed by Barnard, who was chief librarian until the collection's transfer to the British Museum. It seems unlikely that Dalton had any major influence over the way the collection was to develop, but that Barnard played a central role, for instance making many, or perhaps most, of the decisions about what books to buy. Samuel Johnson also advised on the library's collection policy. The library was open to anyone with a genuine scholarly purpose, and in George's lifetime was visited by John Adams and Joseph Priestley as well as Johnson. It is noteworthy that the king allowed scholars such as Priestley, whose political and religious opinions he disagreed with, to use the library.\n\nWhen George III died in 1820 it was unclear what he had intended to happen to the library after his death, and also whether it was now the personal property of his heir, George IV, or belonged to the Crown. These issues were resolved in January 1823 when, after a period of negotiation with the government, George IV wrote to Prime Minister Lord Liverpool offering the library to the nation. In the intervening period rumours had appeared in the British press that he was considering selling the library to the Tsar; it is not known if there was any truth in these. By giving away the library, the king was able to avoid the expense of its upkeep (over £2,000 per year) at a time of financial difficulty and also facilitate the redevelopment of Buckingham Palace, a project of great importance to him. He specified that the library was to be kept together, and separate from any other collection.\n\nWithin months Parliament had agreed that the museum was to be the collection's new home, although some newspapers and public figures still argued for the establishment of a new library to house the books in a different part of London. The museum lacked the room to house the collection, but plans for a significant neoclassical extension of the museum's buildings had already been drawn up by the architect Robert Smirke. While the government had for some time resisted the museum's requests for money for this project, the need to provide a fitting home for the library meant that it now agreed to fund the building work. Thus the arrival of the King's Library was a catalyst for the growth of the museum into the grand building we see today. With few changes to the original plans, the east wing of Smirke's extension to the museum became the library's new home. Constructed in 1823-7 and measuring 300 feet (91 metres) in length, this gallery has been called 'one of the noblest rooms in London'.\n\nThe library was a major addition to the museum's book collection, adding 65,000 volumes to an existing 116,000; the museum estimated that only 21,000 of these were duplicates. Furthermore, many of the King's Library's strengths, such as geography, theology and Spanish and Italian literature, were areas which so far had been rather poorly represented among the museum's books. George IV retained 33 printed books from the library for himself. These were mostly incunabula, including a Mainz Psalter which is now in the Royal Library, Windsor, but also included a Shakespeare First Folio. George IV also kept back two manuscripts: one by Samuel Johnson, containing plans for projected books, and a copy of the Vedas in Sanskrit, made in Benares in 1776.\n\nDuring the 1840s approximately 13% of the books consulted in the museum were from the King's Library. This percentage declined at the museum's book collection grew in subsequent decades, but the King's Library remained well-used. From 1857, the gallery was used to display notable volumes from the whole of the museum's printed books collection. Towards the end of the First World War, an increased number of air raids led the museum to move the most valuable books out of London, many going to the National Library of Wales. This precaution was repeated just prior to the outbreak of the Second World War. In September 1940 a bomb hit the museum, leaving 428 volumes from the King's Library either destroyed or damaged beyond repair; the museum had duplicate copies of 265 of these elsewhere in its collections. In addition a further 1000 volumes from the King's Library were in need of repair. The rest of the collection was moved to a safer part of the building, and finally evacuated from London to the Bodleian Library in Oxford in 1943. Repair work to the gallery was finally carried out in 1950-1.\n\nIn the 1970s preparations began for the move of the museum's book collection to the newly established British Library. The museum's Trustees argued that the King's Library should remain where it was, but were unsuccessful in preventing its transfer to the new institution. The collection is now housed in the King's Library Tower, a six-storey glass and bronze structure in the British Library's entrance hall; the tower was designed specially by the building's architect, Colin St John Wilson, and also contains the Thomas Grenville collection. Items from the collection remain available for reading by the public. The collection's old home at the British Museum, restored in 2000-3, is now known as the Enlightenment Gallery and houses a permanent exhibition about the Age of Enlightenment, opened to celebrate the museum's 250th anniversary in 2003.\n\nHistorians agree that George III intended the library to be a comprehensive resource for scholars, rather than a collection of rare volumes or fine bindings. In other words, this was a working library rather than a showpiece, although it did contain some notable rarities. These include a Gutenberg Bible and many English incunabula, including a copy of Caxton's first edition of the Canterbury Tales. The purchase of Thorkelin's library meant that there was a notable collection of over 2,000 works on Scandinavian language and literature. The collection also includes the first four Shakespeare folios.\n\nThe oldest-known catalogue of the library was compiled in 1769. The \"Bibliothecae Regiae catalogus\", a catalogue of works organised by author, was published in five volumes between 1820 and 1829, its compilation being overseen by Barnard. A hand-written subject catalogue also exists; work on this subject catalogue may have started in the 1790s, and it was kept updated through several subsequent decades. The library's pamphlets were catalogued for the first time following the Library's move to the British Museum.\n\nIn 1769 the library contained 11,200 printed titles, in 19,500 volumes. By the time it passed to the British Museum in 1827 it had grown to 65,000 printed volumes, as well as 17,500 pamphlets and 446 manuscripts; the manuscripts mainly date from the reign of George III and few are of particular note.\n\nAnalysis of the subject catalogue shows that as of 1820 44% of the titles in the library were concerned with history, and 16% were literature of various kinds. An extensive range of subjects was represented by smaller numbers of works. Recent literature was not particularly well represented, with, for instance, no works by Jane Austen being listed. It seems that library policy was only to collect novels once it was clear that the author in question had gained an enduring and positive reputation. 260 editions of the Bible were included, and works from other European countries were well represented. For instance, 57% of the history titles had been published outside Britain. There was a good selection of library catalogues from other collections, and runs of the official publications of parliament. For an eighteenth-century library there was an unusually good selection of periodicals, although newspapers were not collected.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606554", "title": "List of death deities", "text": "List of death deities\n\nDeities associated with death take many different forms, depending on the specific culture and religion being referenced. Psychopomps, deities of the underworld, and resurrection deities are commonly called death deities in comparative religions texts. The term colloquially refers to deities that either collect or rule over the dead, rather than those deities who determine the time of death. However, all these types are included in this article.\n\nMany have incorporated a god of death into their mythology or religion. As death, along with birth, is among the major parts of human life, these deities may often be one of the most important deities of a religion. In some religions with a single powerful deity as the source of worship, the death deity is an antagonistic deity against which the primary deity struggles. The related term death worship has most often been used as a derogatory term to accuse certain groups of morally abhorrent practices which set no value on human life. In monotheistic religions, death is commonly personified by an angel instead of a deity.\n\nIn polytheistic religions which have a complex system of deities governing various natural phenomena and aspects of human life, it is common to have a deity who is assigned the function of presiding over death. This deity may actually take the life of humans or, more commonly, simply rule over the afterlife in that particular belief system (a single religion may have separate deities performing both tasks). The deity in question may be good, evil, or neutral and simply doing their job, in sharp contrast to a lot of modern portrayals of death deities as all being inherently evil just because death is feared. Hades from Greek mythology is an especially common target. The inclusion of such a \"departmental\" deity of death in a religion's pantheon is not necessarily the same thing as the glorification of death which is commonly condemned by the use of the term \"death-worship\" in modern political rhetoric.\n\nA death deity has a good chance of being either male or female, unlike some functions that seem to steer towards one gender in particular, such as fertility and earth deities being female and storm deities being male. A single religion/mythology may have death gods of both genders existing at the same time and they may be envisioned as a married couple ruling over the afterlife together, as with the Aztecs, Greeks, and Romans.\n\nIn monotheistic religions, the one god governs both life and death (as well as everything else). However, in practice this manifests in different rituals and traditions and varies according to a number of factors including geography, politics, traditions, and the influence of other religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nEmperor(s) of Youdu (Capital City of the Underworld)\n\nKings of the Ten Underworld Palaces\n\nThe rest only have surnames including Li, Yu, Lu, Bi, Lu and Xue.\n\nFour Kings of the Underworld\n\nGhost Kings of the Five Regions\n\nGhost Kings of the Five Regions (Ver.2)\n\nGovernors of Fengdu\n\nImperial Censor of Fengdu\n\nFour Generals of the Direct Altar of Fengdu\n\nEight Generals of the Inner Altar of Fengdu\n\nEight Generals of the Outer Altar of Fengdu\n\nTen Masters of the Underworld\n(Note: in some versions, Xie Bian and Fanjiu are the He Wuchang and Bai Wuchang.)\n\nFour Strongmen of Fengdu\n\nTwo Agents of Fengdu\n\nWardens of the Nine Prison of Fengdu\n\nAdministers of the Six Paths of Rebirth of Fengdu \n\nJudges of Fengdu\n\nSacha Bonpuri\n\nCheonjiwang Bonpuri\n\nJeoseung Sacha, gods/messengers of death\n\nJangseung, Korean totem poles\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDeath is the protagonist in the science fantasy novel \"On a Pale Horse\", book one in a series of 8 books, the \"Incarnations of Immortality\".\n\nIn the novel \"The Book Thief\", Death is the narrator of the story.\n\nDeath is the name of one of \"The Endless\" in the DC Universe.\n\nDeath is a recurring character in the Discworld series written by Terry Pratchett. Books featuring Death include \"Mort\", \"Reaper Man\", \"Soul Music\", \"Hogfather\" and \"Thief of Time\". He also makes a cameo appearance in \"Interesting Times\".\n\nIn \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" by George R.R. Martin, the guild of assassins known as the Faceless Men believe that all death deities are simply different incarnations of the same god, known to them as the Many-Faced God or Him of Many Faces, while the Faith of the Seven worships The Stranger as one of Seven Aspects of God representing Death and the Unknown.\n\nIn the works of J. R. R. Tolkien, especially \"The Silmarillion\", Nàmo AKA Lord Mandos is the Doomsman of the Valar, Judge of the Dead and Lord of the Halls of Mandos (where Elves await reincarnation and humans retreat before making the Journey into the Beyond).\n\nIn the CW TV show \"Supernatural\", Death makes a crucial appearance. He is portrayed as existing alongside God since the beginning of time and being so ancient he cannot remember when he came into existence; he may even be older than God. In the show he is the oldest and most powerful of the Four Horsemen-Death, Famine, War and Pestilence. He is not portrayed as a villain.\n\nIn the Sailor Moon franchise, the last Sailor Guardian (of the Sol System) introduced is Sailor Saturn. Her powers revolve around destruction, ruin, and death and she can be thought of as a \"god\" of sorts (all Sailor Guardians can). Her weapon is the Silence Glaive that is capable of utterly obliterating and destroying entire worlds/planets if used to its maximum potential.\n\nIn the Marvel Comics Universe, the personification of death is Mistress Death.\n\nThe Transformers mythos features the character of Mortilus, a Cybertronian deity who represents death and who later betrayed his brethren and was destroyed, leading to the longevity of the Transformer race. A similar character is The Fallen, a member of the Thirteen Primes who is identified as the guardian of entropy.\n\nIn the manga and anime, Death Note, gods of death (shinigami) exist in their own realm and are owners of Death Notes, which are used to kill humans. When a note falls into the human world, the person who touches it first becomes the new owner of the note, can recognize the god of death to whom it belongs, and the god follows him/her for the rest of his/her life. They are more like freaky looking Grim Reapers than deities who are worshiped though. This is because shinigami are a fairly recent concept in Japanese folklore directly inspired by the European figure of the Grim Reaper, and thus, aren't \"true\" death gods. Despite their Western origin, many people will refer to both the Death Note characters and the folklorical shinigami using the Japanese name instead of the English translation or even \"Grim Reaper\". For similar cases of shinigami being more akin to Grim Reapers in anime, see Bleach (anime) and Soul Eater (anime).\n\n"}
{"id": "1616779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616779", "title": "List of reporting marks: O", "text": "List of reporting marks: O\n\n"}
{"id": "12738235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12738235", "title": "List of scientific publications by Albert Einstein", "text": "List of scientific publications by Albert Einstein\n\nAlbert Einstein (1879–1955) was a renowned theoretical physicist of the 20th century, best known for his theories of special relativity and general relativity. He also made important contributions to statistical mechanics, especially his treatment of Brownian motion, his resolution of the paradox of specific heats, and his connection of fluctuations and dissipation. Despite his reservations about its interpretation, Einstein also made seminal contributions to quantum mechanics and, indirectly, quantum field theory, primarily through his theoretical studies of the photon.\n\nEinstein's scientific publications are listed below in four tables: journal articles, book chapters, books and authorized translations. Each publication is indexed in the first column by its number in the Schilpp bibliography (\"Albert Einstein: Philosopher–Scientist\", pp. 694–730) and by its article number in Einstein's \"Collected Papers\". Complete references for these two bibliographies may be found below in the Bibliography section. The Schilpp numbers are used for cross-referencing in the Notes (the final column of each table), since they cover a greater time period of Einstein's life at present. The English translations of titles are generally taken from the published volumes of the \"Collected Papers\". For some publications, however, such official translations are not available; unofficial translations are indicated with a superscript. Although the tables are presented in chronological order by default, each table can be re-arranged in alphabetical order for any column by the reader clicking on the arrows at the top of that column. For illustration, to re-order a table by subject—e.g., to group together articles that pertain to \"General relativity\" or \"Specific heats\"—one need only click on the arrows in the \"Classification and Notes\" columns. To print out the re-sorted table, one may print it directly by using the web-browser Print option; the \"Printable version\" link at the left gives only the default sorting. Collaborative works by Einstein are highlighted in lavender, with the co-author(s) provided in the final column of the table.\n\nEinstein's many non-scientific works are not included here, to limit both the article's focus and size. The division of scientific and non-scientific works follows the Schilpp bibliography, which cites over 130 non-scientific works, often on humanitarian or political topics (pp. 730–746). Five volumes of Einstein's \"Collected Papers\" (volumes 1, 5, 8–10) are devoted to his correspondence, much of which is concerned with scientific questions. These letters are likewise not listed here, since they were not prepared for publication.\n\nThe following station of Einstein's scientific discoveries provides a context for the publications listed below, and clarifies the major themes running through his work. The first four entries come from his Annus Mirabilis papers or miracle year papers.\n\n\n\nMost of Einstein's original scientific work appeared as journal articles. Articles on which Einstein collaborated with other scientists are highlighted in lavender, with the co-author(s) listed in the \"Classification and notes\" column.\n\nWith the exception of publication #288, the following book chapters were written by Einstein; he had no co-authors. Given that most of the chapters are already in English, the English translations are not given their own columns, but are provided in parentheses after the original title; this helps the table to fit within the margins of the page.\n\nThe following books were written by Einstein. With the exception of publication #278, he had no co-authors.\n\nThe following translations of his work were authorized by Einstein.\n\n\nThe following references are drawn from Abraham Pais' biography of Albert Einstein, \"Subtle is the Lord\"; see the Bibliography for a complete reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2195775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2195775", "title": "Marc Abrahams", "text": "Marc Abrahams\n\nMarc Abrahams is editor and co-founder of \"Annals of Improbable Research\", and originator and emcee of the annual Ig Nobel Prize celebration. He was formerly editor of the \"Journal of Irreproducible Results\".\n\nAbrahams is married to Robin Abrahams, also known as \"Miss Conduct\", a columnist for the \"Boston Globe\".\n\nHe graduated from Harvard College.\n\nBooks written or edited by Abrahams include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4123053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4123053", "title": "My Documents", "text": "My Documents\n\nMy Documents is the commonly recognized name of a special folder in Microsoft Windows (even though starting with Windows Vista, it is called Documents only, and the actual name of the folder might be different when the language of the installed copy of Windows is not English.) This folder is supposed to be a personal area where users store their personal non-shared documents. However, many software developers have ignored this convention and as a result, this folder has become a dumping ground for the application data such as files containing settings and saved games. Users cannot delete, move or organize these files without causing unwanted behavior in their software.\n\nUntil Windows XP, it contained other subfolders such as \"My Pictures\", \"My Music\" and \"My Videos\". Starting with Windows Vista, these subfolders were moved out of My Documents and were made its siblings.\n\nMicrosoft first introduced the \"My Documents\" folder in Windows 95 OEM Service Release 2, as a standard location for storing user-created files. The folder, located under the root directory of the boot volume. A shortcut to it is displayed directly on the user's desktop.\n\nThe Windows NT family of operating systems set up the \"My Documents\" folder in the user's profile folder. In Windows XP and earlier, the path is codice_1 (alias codice_2) on boot volume. A user can later change the physical location of \"My Documents\". However, \"My Documents\" in Windows Explorer (and file dialog boxes) doesn't appear as an absolute path. In addition to translation, the display name of the folder might change depending on owner of the folder. For example, if a user who has logged on to Windows XP and later with user account A look at the personal folders of user account B via Windows Explorer, instead of \"My Documents\", he sees \"B's Documents\". This customization is achieved using codice_3 file.\n\nWindows Vista makes a lot of changes to this folder. Dropping \"My\" in its name, it is stored in codice_4 regardless of the Windows language. Windows Explorer, however, shows a different display name for it, depending on the chosen language. For instance, an English copy of Windows shows \"My Documents\", a French copy shows \"Mes documents\" and a German copy shows \"Eigene Dokumente\" (changed from \"Eigene Dateien\" in Windows XP). Additionally, \"My Pictures\", \"My Music\" and \"My Videos\" are not longer stored in it; they are now called \"Pictures\", \"Music\" and \"Video\" and are now its siblings.\n\nThis folder is supposed to be a personal area where users store their personal non-shared documents. Users are supposed to be sole authority of what is stored in this folder. Creating, renaming, moving, or deleting the contents of this folder is not supposed to impact the proper execution of installed software. However, many software developers have ignored this convention and as a result, this folder has become a dumping ground for the application data such as files containing settings and saved games. For example:\nUsers cannot delete, move or organize these files without causing unwanted behavior in their software. Their option is to either live with this chaos, or simply store their files elsewhere.\n\nWindows 98 introduced two additional folders with a \"My\" prefix: \"My Music\" and \"My Pictures\". They are not present in Windows Server 2003 by default, unless enabled using the Start menu customization. Installing Windows Media Player 10 or 11 on Windows XP adds a \"My Videos\" folder which Windows Media Player uses to store video files that are shown in its media library. In Windows Vista, \"My\" prefix is removed and these three folders are expelled out of what is now called \"Documents\". In addition, other user folders are added: \"Contacts\", \"Downloads\", \"Favorites\", \"Links\", \"Saved Games\" and \"Searches\". Windows 10 adds \"OneDrive\". In Windows 7, under the Public user folder there is a Recorded TV library, that can be added on the libraries list. Installing Visio 2003 adds a <nowiki>\"My Shapes\"</nowiki> folder.\n\nOn Windows machines which operate as part of a Windows Server domain, administrators can configure the location of \"My Documents\" (and other Special Folders) through Group Policy. Corporate desktop deployments commonly redirect \"My Documents\" to a folder on a file server.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3778735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3778735", "title": "Nabonidus Chronicle", "text": "Nabonidus Chronicle\n\nThe Nabonidus Chronicle is an ancient Babylonian text, part of a larger series of Babylonian Chronicles inscribed in cuneiform script on clay tablets. It deals primarily with the reign of Nabonidus, the last king of the Neo-Babylonian Empire, covers the conquest of Babylon by the Persian king Cyrus the Great, and ends with the start of the reign of Cyrus's son Cambyses, spanning a period from 556 BC to some time after 539 BC. It provides a rare contemporary account of Cyrus's rise to power and is the main source of information on this period; Amélie Kuhrt describes it as \"the most reliable and sober [ancient] account of the fall of Babylon.\"\n\nThe chronicle is thought to have been copied by a scribe during the Seleucid period (4th-1st century BC) but the original text was probably written during the late 6th or early 5th century BC. Similarities with the \"Nabonassar to Shamash-shum-ukin Chronicle\", another of the Babylonian Chronicles, suggest that the same scribe may have been responsible for both chronicles. If so, it may date to the reign of Darius I of Persia (c. 549 BC–486 BC).\n\nThe Nabonidus Chronicle is preserved on a single clay tablet now kept at the British Museum in London. Like the other Babylonian Chronicles, it lists in an annalistic (year-by-year) fashion the key events of each year, such as the accession and deaths of kings, major military events, and notable religious occurrences. It follows a standard pattern of reporting only events of immediate relevance to Babylonia, making it of somewhat limited utility as a source for a wider history of the region. The tablet itself is fairly large, measuring 140 mm wide by 140 mm long, but is significantly damaged with its bottom and most of the left-hand side missing. The text was composed in two columns on each side, originally consisting of some 300-400 lines. What remains is extremely fragmentary; little more than 75 lines of text are still legible. The missing portions consist of most of the first and fourth columns, along with the bottom of the second and the top of the third. There appears to have been a colophon at the bottom of the tablet, but it too is largely missing.\n\nAlthough the writing is of a good standard, the copying was decidedly imperfect and the scribe made a number of errors that are visible in the text.\n\nThe tablet was acquired by the British Museum in 1879 from the antiquities dealers Spartali & Co. Its original place of discovery is unknown, though it has been presumed that it came from the ruins of Babylon. It possibly represents part of an official collection of annals in the possession of the Achaemenid governors of Babylon. The text, known at the time as \"the Annals of Nabonidus\", was first discussed in print by Sir Henry Rawlinson in the \"Athenaeum\" magazine of 14 February 1880, with the first English transliteration and translation being published two years later by Professor T. G. Pinches in the \"Transactions of the Society for Biblical Archaeology (1882)\". It has since been translated by a number of scholars, notably Sidney Smith, A. Leo Oppenheim, Albert Kirk Grayson, Jean-Jacques Glassner, and Amélie Kuhrt.\n\nThe text of the chronicle begins presumably with the accession of Nabonidus in 556 BC, though the start of the text is so poorly preserved that none of this portion is legible. It mentions campaigns by Nabonidus against a place named Hume and unnamed localities in \"the West\" (Arabia?). Cyrus's pillaging of Ecbatana, the capital of Astyages, is recorded in the sixth year of the reign of Nabonidus. The chronicle goes on to describe in several entries the self-imposed exile of Nabonidus in the Arabian oasis of Tema (mentioned as Teiman in Hebrew in the Dead Sea Scrolls fragment 4Q242 known as the Testimony of Nebonidus dated to 150 BC) and the disruption that this caused to the Akitu (New Year) festival for a period of ten years. The king spent ten years in Arabia and left Babylonia administered by his son, Bel-shar-usur (Belshazzar of the Book of Daniel in the Old Testament). The eighth year is purposefully left blank; apparently the scribe did not have any significant events to record for that year. Another campaign by Cyrus is recorded in the ninth year, possibly representing his attack on Lydia and capture of Sardis.\n\nMuch of the rest of the text is fragmentary. A possible reference to fighting and Persia appears in what is presumably the entry for the sixteenth year. A long surviving section describes the events of Nabonidus's seventeenth and final year as king, when Cyrus invaded and conquered Babylonia. The celebration of the Akitu festival is recorded, indicating Nabonidus's return to Babylon. The chronicle provides no information on why Cyrus chose to invade Babylonia at that time but records that the gods of various cities \"entered Babylon\", apparently referring to an in-gathering of cultic statues in advance of the Persian invasion – perhaps a measure taken by Nabonidus to prevent the Persians capturing the divine idols. It provides a terse description of the Battle of Opis, in which the Persians decisively defeated Nabonidus's army, massacred the retreating Babylonians and took a great haul of loot. The Persian army went on to capture the cities of Sippar and Babylon itself without further conflict. Cyrus is reported to have been received with joy by the city's inhabitants and appointed local governors. The gods that had previously been brought to Babylon were returned to their home cities on the orders of Cyrus. The legible portion of the text ends with a lengthy period of mourning for the lately deceased king's wife (presumably meaning the wife of Cyrus, as Nabonidus was no longer king by this time) and a mention of Cambyses, the son of Cyrus. Only a few scattered words are legible in the remainder of the tablet.\n\nThe Nabonidus Chronicle appears to have been composed by the (Babylonian) priests of Marduk, the chief god of Babylon. It has been characterised as \"a piece of propaganda at Cyrus's service\" and as possibly \"the result of the propaganda of the priesthood of Marduk to vilify Nabonidus\". Julye Bidmead attributes the priests' hostility to Nabonidus's unsuccessful attempts to introduce the worship of the moon god Sîn. In particular, the chronicle repeatedly asserts that the Akitu festival could not be held because of Nabonidus's absence. This is dubious, as others could have participated in the celebration in Nabonidus's place. The chronicle is seen as part of a series of pro-Persian documents, including the Cyrus cylinder and Verse Account of Nabonidus, that attack Nabonidus for alleged religious infidelity and contrast his actions with those of Cyrus and Cambyses.. However Amélie Kuhrt describes it as \"the most reliable and sober ancient account of the fall of Babylon.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15496956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15496956", "title": "National Bibliography Number", "text": "National Bibliography Number\n\nNational Bibliography Number (NBN) is a group of publication identifier systems used by national libraries in countries such as Germany, Italy, Finland, Norway, and Sweden. There is no global standard for the contents of NBNs; instead, they have a country-specific format. NBNs are typically used for documents which do not have a publisher-assigned identifier such as an ISBN. They can be used to identify persistently media that are archived in national libraries, for instance Ph.D. theses.\n\nA Uniform Resource Name (URN) namespace for NBNs has been assigned , and is described in IETF RFC 3188. For example:\nAn NBN in Germany (), in Bavaria ( = \"Bibliotheksverbund Bayern\"), library number 19 (University Library Munich), pointing to a PhD thesis on heat detection in cattle.\n\nSome libraries, such as the National Library of Sweden, provide a resolution service for these URNs.\n\nIn Italy an NBN (NBN:IT) is assigned to digital resources deposited in the National Legal Deposit service . The NBN:IT resolver is active at: http://nbn.depositolegale.it/\n"}
{"id": "5465011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5465011", "title": "National Museum, Warsaw", "text": "National Museum, Warsaw\n\nThe National Museum in Warsaw (), popularly abbreviated as MNW, is a national museum in Warsaw, one of the largest museums in Poland and the largest in the capital. It comprises a rich collection of ancient art (Egyptian, Greek, Roman), counting about 11,000 pieces, an extensive gallery of Polish painting since the 16th century and a collection of foreign painting (Italian, French, Flemish, Dutch, German and Russian) including some paintings from Adolf Hitler's private collection, ceded to the Museum by the American authorities in post-war Germany. The museum is also home to numismatic collections, a gallery of applied arts and a department of oriental art, with the largest collection of Chinese art in Poland, comprising some 5,000 objects.\n\nThe Museum boasts the Faras Gallery with Europe's largest collection of Nubian Christian art and the Gallery of Medieval Art with artefacts from all regions historically associated with Poland, supplemented by selected works created in other regions of Europe.\n\nThe National Museum in Warsaw was established on 20 May 1862, as the \"Museum of Fine Arts, Warsaw\", and in 1916 renamed \"National Museum, Warsaw\" (with the inclusion of collections from museums and cultural institutions such as the Society of Care for Relics of the Past, the Museum of Antiquity at Warsaw University, the Museum of the Society for Encouragement of the Fine Arts, and the Museum of Industry and Agriculture).\n\nThe collection, on Jerusalem Avenue, is housed in a building designed by Tadeusz Tolwiński, developed between 1927 and 1938 (earlier the museum had been located at \"ulica Podwale 15\"). In 1932 an exhibition of decorative art opened in the two earlier erected wings of the building. The new building was inaugurated on 18 June 1938. The purpose-built modernistic edifice, was situated on the edge of Na Książęcem Park established between 1776–79 for Prince Kazimierz Poniatowski. From 1935 the museum director was Stanisław Lorentz, who directed an effort to save the most valuable works of art during World War II.\n\nDuring the invasion of Poland the building was damaged and after the Siege of Warsaw the collection was looted by the Gestapo led by Nazi historian Dagobert Frey, who had already prepared a meticulous list of the most valuable artwork on official visits from Germany in 1937. The Gestapo headquarters presented Rembrandt's portrait of Maerten Soolmans as a gift to Hans Frank in occupied Kraków and packed everything else to be shipped to Berlin. After the war the Polish Government, under the supervision of Professor Lorentz, retrieved many of the works seized by the Germans. More than 5,000 artifacts are still missing. Many works of art of, at that time unknown or of uncertain provenance (e.g. originating from Nazi German art repositories in Polish Recovered Territories in Kamenz, Karthaus, Liebenthal and Rohnstock among others) were nationalized by the communist authorities using subsequent decrees and acts from 1945, 1946 and 1958 and were included in the museum collection as so-called \"abandoned property\". At present, the collection of the National Museum in Warsaw includes over 780,000 items displayed in many permanent galleries, including the Professor Kazimierz Michałowski Faras Gallery and galleries given over to ancient art, medieval art, painting, goldsmithing, decorative art and oriental art, as well as many temporary exhibitions.\n\nIn 2008-2013 the \"Polish Archaeological Mission \"Tyritake\" of National Museum in Warsaw\" conducted works at Tyritake, Crimea. In 2016 the \"Polsih Archaeological Mission \"Olbia\" commenced works at Olbia_(archaeological_site), Ukraine. Both are headed by Alfred Twardecki curator of the Ancient Art Gallery. In 2010 the National Museum, as one of the first state institutions in the world, held an exhibition entirely consecrated to homoerotic art - \"Ars Homo Erotica\". Since the 2011–12 renovation, the museum is also considered as one of the most modern in Europe with a computer-led LED lighting allowing to enhance unique qualities of every painting and exhibit.\n\nIn 2012 the permanent galleries underwent revolutionary changes. The curators of the museum re-arranged it and supplemented it with new works from the museum's warehouses. Paintings were not hung chronologically, but thematically: genre painting, still lifes, landscapes, cityscapes, biblical, mythological, nudes. Works by Italian, Flemish, Dutch, German and Polish artists were hung together, making it easy to observe and compare similarities and differences. The Gallery of Ancient Art, Faras Gallery, Gallery of Medieval Art, Gallery of Old Masters, Gallery of 19th-century Art and the Gallery of 20th and 21st-century, includes the works of Polish painters and sculptors and are displayed in the context of art in other countries and in different epochs. The galleries reflect the richness and diversity of traditions and historical experiences of individual nations, which, however, built their cultural identity on the same foundation of Greco-Roman antiquity and the Christian religion.\n\nThe Gallery of Medieval Art mainly presents objects from the late Middle Ages (14th-15th century), originating from different regions of today's Poland, as well as several examples of western European art. These works were originally designed almost exclusively for churches. The exhibition was designed to allow the audience to understand the role of art in the religious life of the Middle Ages.\n\nThe gallery presents trans-regional phenomena from the 12th–14th centuries, such as the distinction of figurative sculpture from architecture in the Romanesque era, Central European sculpture from the circle of the \"Madonnas on the Lion\", and so-called \"International Gothic\", also referred to as a courtly style. Many of the works included in the exhibition underline a distinct character of Central European regions such as Silesia between 1440 and 1520 (with large quartered polyptychs, epitaphs, votive and didactic plaques, and Ways of the Cross), Lesser Poland, Greater Poland and Kuyavia between 1440 and 1520 (with altarpieces and devotional paintings) and Gdańsk and the Hanseatic region between 1420 and 1520 (with large altars from Hamburg and Pomerania).\n\nThe new techniques implemented in the gallery allow the unabridged presentation of large polyptychs, such as the famous Grudziądz Polyptych, including the reverse of the wings. The new arrangement of the exhibition was designed by WWAA.\n\nThe Gallery of Old Masters on the second floor was conceived from the former Gallery of Decorative Art, Gallery of Old European Painting and the Gallery of Old Polish and European Portrait in 2016. It combines species of pictorial art - painting, sculpture, drawings and prints with crafts in reference to the very notion of \"art\" which originally meant craftsmanship. Painting and sculpture with its representational character and imitation of reality (\"mimesis\") was united with decorative arts in common goals and functions as well as in spaces where they were collected and exhibited. These \"social spaces\" have provided the key to the division of the gallery: 1. palace, villa, court; 2. church, chapel and domestic altar; 3. the city. In other words: 1. court culture; 2. religious culture; 3. city culture.\n\nIn the redesigned gallery, the works are presented not according to national schools, but as a confrontation of artistic circles of the South and North. The new system reflects the hierarchy of the genres created by Renaissance art theory and the former function of the paintings. The aim of this exhibition is to show, for what purpose and for which recipients, works of art were created. \n\nThe gallery shows a variety of effigies, reflecting the multiplicity of social, political and private functions of portraiture. The exhibition opens with monumental images of courtly and aristocratic portraits and busts compiled with some examples of traditional Polish and Western European portraits \"en pied\" and followed with smaller, less formal, or private portraits, coffin portraits and 18th-century portraits followed with miniature portraits and paintings of Stanislaus Augustus' era on the first floor.\n\nThe core of the new exhibition of the Gallery of 19th-century Art, presenting the main trends shaping the art in the nineteenth century, is the work of Polish painters and sculptors, which is present in the context of selected works by representatives of other nationalities. Confrontation of works by artists from different European countries shows their artistic aspirations, universal ideas or symbols, similar experiments carried out independently or in workshop practice. One of Poland's largest canvas paintings, the \"Battle of Grunwald\" by Jan Matejko (426 cm × 987 cm (168 in × 389 in)), is displayed in the Gallery of 19th-century Art.\n\nCollections of modern and contemporary art are among the largest in Poland. Paintings, sculptures, prints and drawings from the 1920s and 1930s, Polish avant-garde film, photographs, photomontages, along with selected works of the 1980s independent culture, video and performance of the last forty years are exhibited in a 700 m gallery. Information about the selected objects is available through mobile applications and selected works are visualized and described by the gallery curator thanks to augmented reality.\n\nCollections of the National Museum in Warsaw comprise about 830,000 exhibits of Polish and foreign art, from antiquity to the present, and include paintings, sculptures, drawings, engravings, photographs and coins as well as objects of applied art and design.\n\nThe Collection of Ancient and East Christian Art numbers some 24,000 exhibits, being the largest and most important of its kind in Poland. The collection of frescoes from the Christian cathedral in Faras (ancient Pachoras in today's Sudan) and a collection of painted Greek vases are among the most important.\n\nThe origins of the Old European Painting Collection, comprising 3,700 paintings, dates back to 1862 and the establishment of the Museum of Fine Arts, when 36 Italian, Dutch and German paintings from Johann Peter Weyer collection in Cologne were acquired. The Museum came into possession of the works of such masters as Pinturicchio, Cornelis van Haarlem and Jacob Jordaens. The collection was enlarged through purchases, donations and deposits. The most significant acquisition was the collection of paintings of Pietro Fiorentini, donated in 1858 to the School of Fine Arts in Warsaw, and given to the Museum in 1879. The collection was further expanded through the purchase of paintings from the collection of Wojciech Kolasiński in the years 1877–1896 and bequests by Cyprian Lachnicki in 1906 including \"Flagellation of Christ\" by Pieter de Kempeneer, \"Portrait of a man in a yellow jerkin\" by Hans Schäufelein, \"Expulsion from Paradise\" by Pier Francesco Mola and \"Academic study\" by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres. In 1935 the Museum purchased a large collection of , including \"Portrait of Admiral\" by Tintoretto, and in 1961 a collection of Gabriela Zapolska, including several paintings by Paul Sérusier. The collection of Polish modern art gain a more international context with the purchase of \"Portrait of Tadeusz Makowski\" by Marcel Gromaire in 1959 and \"Lassitude\" by an Art Deco painter Tamara de Lempicka in 1979, both on permanent display. The museum also features the works of other major European artists such as Rembrandt, Sandro Botticelli, Lucas Cranach the Elder, Auguste Renoir, Gustave Courbet, Angelica Kauffmann, Luca Giordano, Joos van Cleve, Jan Brueghel the Elder, David Teniers the Younger and Gaspare Traversi.\n\nOn the top floor a large gallery displays Polish history paintings of the 19th century, many of which are well-known to Poles, and vividly depict a nationalist take on incidents from the nation's history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212629", "title": "New York Times Co. v. United States", "text": "New York Times Co. v. United States\n\nNew York Times Co. v. United States, 403 U.S. 713 (1971), was a landmark decision by the United States Supreme Court on the First Amendment. The ruling made it possible for \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" newspapers to publish the then-classified \"Pentagon Papers\" without risk of government censorship or punishment.\n\nPresident Richard Nixon had claimed executive authority to force the \"Times\" to suspend publication of classified information in its possession. The question before the court was whether the constitutional freedom of the press, guaranteed by the First Amendment, was subordinate to a claimed need of the executive branch of government to maintain the secrecy of information. The Supreme Court ruled that the First Amendment did protect the right of \"The New York Times\" to print the materials.\n\nBy 1971, the United States had been overtly at war with North Vietnam for six years. At this point, 59,000 American soldiers had died and the government was facing widespread dissent from large portions of the American public. In 1967 Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara commissioned a “massive top-secret history of the United States role in Indochina”. Daniel Ellsberg, who had helped to produce the report, leaked 43 volumes of the 47-volume, 7,000-page report to reporter Neil Sheehan of \"The New York Times\" in March 1971 and the paper began publishing articles outlining the findings.\n\nThe black article appeared in the \"Times\" Sunday edition, on June 13, 1971. By the following Tuesday, the \"Times\" received an order to cease further publication from a District Court judge, at the request of the administration. The government claimed it would cause \"irreparable injury to the defense interests of the United States\" and wanted to \"enjoin \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" from publishing the contents of a classified study entitled \"History of U.S. Decision-Making Process on the Vietnam Policy.\"”\n\nThe government sought a restraining order that prevented the \"Times\" from posting any further articles based upon the \"Pentagon Papers\". In addition to The New York Times Company, the Justice Department named the following defendants: Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, president and publisher; Harding Bancroft and Ivan Veit, executive vice presidents; Francis Cox, James Goodale, Sydney Gruson, Walter Mattson, John McCabe, John Mortimer and James Reston, vice presidents; John B. Oakes, editorial page editor; A. M. Rosenthal, managing editor; Daniel Schwarz, Sunday editor; Clifton Daniel and Tom Wicker, associate editors; Gerald Gold and Allan Siegal, assistant foreign editors; Neil Sheehan, Hedrick Smith, E. W. Kenworthy and Fox Butterfield, reporters; and Samuel Abt, a foreign desk copy editor.\n\nSection 793 of the Espionage Act was cited by Attorney General John N. Mitchell as cause for the United States to bar further publication of stories based upon the \"Pentagon Papers\". The statute was spread over three pages of the \"United States Code Annotated\" and the only part that appeared to apply to the \"Times\" was 793(e), which made it criminal for:\nWhoever having unauthorized possession of, access to, or control over any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument, appliance, or note relating to the national defense, or information relating to the national defense which information the possessor has reason to believe could be used to the injury of the United States or to the advantage of any foreign nation, willfully communicates, delivers, transmits or causes to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted, or attempts to communicate, deliver, transmit or cause to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted the same to any person not entitled to receive it, or willfully retains the same and fails to deliver it to the officer or employee of the United States entitled to receive it.\nBased on this language, Alexander Bickel and Floyd Abrams felt there were three preliminary arguments to raise. First, the wording of the statute was very broad. Was each article about foreign policy one \"relating to the national defense\"? What was the significance of \"reason to believe\" that the Pentagon Papers \"could be used to the injury of the United States or the advantage of any foreign nation\"? If the motivation was to educate the public, was that a defense that served to help, not hinder, the country? Would the public be \"a person not entitled to receive\" the information? Of equal importance was what the statute did not say: No references to \"publication\" (as Attorney General Mitchell's cease-and-desist order referenced), no reference to classified information, and no support for Mitchell's reliance on the top secret classification to justify restraint on publication. Additionally, there was no statutory language providing authority for prior restraint on publication at all.\n\nSecond, was the relevance of Mitchell's reliance on a criminal statute in a civil proceeding seeking prior restraint. There was Supreme Court precedent that lent support to the idea that bans on the publication of information by the press to be unconstitutional. In 1907 Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote the \"main purpose\" of the First Amendment was \"to prevent all such previous restraints upon publications as had been practiced by other governments.\" In 1931 the Court wrote that only the narrowest circumstances—such as publication of the dates of departure of ships during wartime—were permissibly restrained. In 1969 John Marshall Harlan II wrote that the Supreme Court \"rejected all manner of prior restraint on publication.\" This second line of reasoning made it seem the statute should only be dealt with in passing, making the case a First Amendment one and the relief the government wanted—a bar on publication—unavailable.\n\nThe third possible approach was a very broad view of the First Amendment, one not focused on the impact of a government victory on the life of a democratic society if prior restraint were granted; but that the publication of just these sorts of materials—governmental misjudgments and misconducts of high import—is exactly why the First Amendment exists.\n\nFederal judge Murray Gurfein heard arguments in the District Court for the Southern District of New York. Michael Hess, chief of the Civil Division of the United States Attorneys Office, argued \"serious injuries are being inflicted on our foreign relations, to the benefit of other nations opposed to our foreign relations, to the benefit of other nations opposed to our form of government.\" Hess relied on Secretary of State William P. Rogers's statement reported earlier that day that a number of nations were concerned about the Papers publication and an affidavit from the general counsel of the Navy that alleged irreparable injury if publication did not cease. Hess asked for a temporary restraining order.\n\nBickel argued that the separation of powers barred the court from issuing the restraining order since there was no statute authorizing such relief. He further argued that there was no exception to the general unavailability of prior restraint that applied in this case. Gurfein called all counsel to his chambers and asked Bickel and Abrams to have the \"Times\" cease publication of the Papers until he could review them. Bickel responded that Gurfein would be the first judge in American history to enter a prior restraint enjoining publication of news if he granted the government's request. The \"Times\" refused to cease publication. Gurfein granted the request and set a hearing for June 18.\n\n\"The New York Times\" agreed to abide by the restraining order and on June 19, Judge Gurfein rejected the administration’s request for an injunction, writing that \"[t]he security of the Nation is not at the ramparts alone. Security also lies in the value of our free institutions. A cantankerous press, an obstinate press, a ubiquitous press must be suffered by those in authority in order to preserve the even greater values of freedom of expression and the right of the people to know.\" However, the Court of Appeals, after an \"en banc\" hearing, granted an injunction until June 25.\n\nOn June 18, 1971, \"The Washington Post\" began publishing its own series of articles based upon the \"Pentagon Papers\". That day, Assistant U.S. Attorney General William Rehnquist asked the \"Post\" to cease publication. After the paper refused, Rehnquist sought an injunction in the District Court for the District of Columbia, but Judge Gerhard Gesell rejected the government's request, as did the Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit. This inconsistency between the courts of appeal led the Supreme Court to hear the case.\n\nThe Supreme Court heard arguments from the Executive Branch, the \"Times\", the \"Post\", and the Justice Department on June 25 and 26, 1971. Along with the issue of how the \"Times\" obtained the documents (which was being investigated by a federal grand jury elsewhere) the real issue for the Court was whether there was a sufficient justification for prior restraint, which would be a suspension of the newspapers’ First Amendment rights to freedom of the press. The First Amendment states that no federal law can be made abridging the freedom of the press, but a few landmark cases in the 20th century had established precedents creating exceptions to that rule.\n\nThe most recent incarnation of the exception was the grave and probable danger rule, established in \"Dennis v. United States\", . During this case, the wording was changed to the grave and irreparable danger standard. The idea behind the numerous versions of the rule is that if a certain message will likely cause a “grave and irreparable” danger to the American public when expressed, then the message’s prior restraint could be considered an acceptable infringement of civil liberties. The Supreme Court was therefore charged with determining if the Government had sufficiently met the “burden of showing justification for the imposition of such a restraint”.\n\nOn June 30, with six Justices concurring and three dissenting, the Supreme Court upheld the right of the newspapers to publish the material. The Court issued a very brief \"per curiam\" opinion, stating only that the Court concurred with the decisions of the two lower courts to reject the Government’s request for an injunction. In its decision, the court first established the legal question with the use of precedents. It first stated that “Any system of prior restraints of expression comes to this Court bearing a heavy presumption against its constitutional validity”. The purpose of this statement was to make the presence of the inherent conflict between the Government’s efforts and the First Amendment clear. The decision then stated that the government “thus carries a heavy burden of showing justification for the imposition of such a restraint”. This reinforced the idea that it was the Nixon Administration's responsibility to show sufficient evidence that the newspapers’ actions would cause a “grave and irreparable” danger.\n\n\"New York Times v. United States\" is generally considered a victory for an extensive reading of the First Amendment, but as the Supreme Court ruled on whether the government had made a successful case for prior restraint, its decision did not void the Espionage Act or give the press unlimited freedom to publish classified documents.\n\nJustice Hugo Black wrote an opinion that elaborated on his view of the absolute superiority of the First Amendment: \n\nJustice William O. Douglas largely concurred with Black, arguing that the need for a free press as a check on government prevents any governmental restraint on the press.\n\nJustice William J. Brennan, Jr., wrote separately to explain that the publication of the documents did not qualify as one of the three exceptions to the freedom of expression established in \"Near v. Minnesota\" (1931).\n\nJustices Potter Stewart and Byron R. White agreed that it is the responsibility of the Executive to ensure national security through the protection of its information. However, in areas of national defense and international affairs, the President possesses great constitutional independence that is virtually unchecked by the Legislative and Judicial branch. \"In absence of governmental checks and balances\", wrote Justice Stewart, \"the only effective restraint upon executive policy and power in [these two areas] may lie in an enlightened citizenry – in an informed and critical public opinion which alone can here protect the values of democratic government\".\n\nJustice Thurgood Marshall argued that the term \"national security\" was too broad to legitimize prior restraint, and also argued that it is not the Court's job to create laws where the Congress had not spoken.\n\nChief Justice Warren E. Burger, dissenting, argued that when \"the imperative of a free and unfettered press comes into collision with another imperative, the effective functioning of a complex modern government\", there should be a detailed study on the effects of these actions. He argued that in the haste of the proceedings, and given the size of the documents, the Court was unable to gather enough information to make a decision. He also argued that the \"Times\" should have discussed the possible societal repercussions with the Government prior to publication of the material. The Chief Justice did not argue that the Government had met the aforementioned standard, but rather that the decision should not have been made so hastily.\n\nJustice John M. Harlan and Justice Harry A. Blackmun joined Burger in arguing the faults in the proceedings, and the lack of attention towards national security and the rights of the Executive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8260885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8260885", "title": "Notary public (Virginia)", "text": "Notary public (Virginia)\n\nA notary public in Virginia is authorized to acknowledge signatures, administer oaths, and certify copies (excluding documents in governmental custody, e.g., birth certificates, death certificates, etc.). A notary may authenticate a person based upon that person's documentation of their identity (such as a driver's license or identification card), by the notary's own personal knowledge of the person appearing before them, or through credible independent witnesses. A notary may not authenticate their own signature or that of their spouse, nor may a notary authenticate any document to which they or their spouse are a party. An example given is that a notary could authenticate a will, even if they are an executor, but could not do so if they are a beneficiary of that will.\n\nAn individual who is a resident of Virginia (or a resident of another state who normally works in Virginia) may become a notary public. They must be at least 18 years of age, have no unpardoned felony convictions, be able to read and write, and fill out an application (which itself must be notarized) which is sent to the Secretary of the Commonwealth. The application used to require the applicant obtain signatures of two Virginia voters attesting to the honesty and character of the applicant; this provision has been eliminated effective July 1. The application to become a notary points out that since the persons who sign the application as voters are parties to the document, the notary who authenticates the applicant's signature cannot be either of those persons. Virginia officials request, but do not require, that the applicant include their social security number (they have also accepted Virginia drivers license numbers) on the form, for use as a unique identifier. The applicant may, by checking a box on the application, choose to remove the words \"in the year of Our Lord\" which normally appear before the year the commission is issued. While the applicant must swear that they have read the notary laws, there is no test or special knowledge required.\n\nVirginia law requires a notary to use a seal on every document they notarize. The law specifies that when a seal is used that it must be sharp, legible, permanent and photographically reproducible. Also, it is recommended that the notary seal be imprinted or stampped just below the notarial statement. Care should be taken to not obscure the signatures or other parts of the document.\n\nBeginning July 1, 2007, the law in Virginia changes; The Secretary of the Commonwealth has also mailed out a letter dictating these changes, some of which include:\n\nNew provisions effective July 1, 2008 permit authentication of documents for electronic commerce; those provisions will be explained in later correspondence to be issued by the Secretary of the Commonwealth. In addition, the 2007 change requiring that the notarial certificate appear be on the same page as the signatures being notarized was significantly limited so that it now applies only in cases where the \"notarial certificate [does not] include[] the name of each person whose signature is being notarized. See Virginia Code Title 47.1.\n\nOn July 1, 2012, Virginia became the first state to authorize a signer to be in a remote location and have a document notarized electronically by an approved Virginia electronic notary using audio-visual conference technology by passing the bills SB 827 and HB 2318.\n"}
{"id": "1564700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564700", "title": "Online Etymology Dictionary", "text": "Online Etymology Dictionary\n\nThe Online Etymology Dictionary is a free online dictionary written and compiled by Douglas Harper that describes the origins of English-language words.\n\nDouglas Harper compiled the etymology dictionary to record the history and evolution of more than 30,000 words, including slang and technical terms. The core body of its etymology information stems from Ernest Weekley's \"An Etymological Dictionary of Modern English\" (1921). Other sources include the \"Middle English Dictionary\" and the \"Barnhart Dictionary of Etymology\" (by Robert Barnhart and others), although the sources for each entry are not stated. In producing his large dictionary, Harper says that he is essentially and for the most part a compiler, an evaluator of etymology reports which others have made. Harper works as a Copy editor/Page designer for LNP Media Group.\n\nAs of June 2015, there were nearly 50,000 entries in the dictionary.\n\nThe Online Etymology Dictionary has been referenced by Oxford University's \"Arts and Humanities Community Resource\" catalog as \"an excellent tool for those seeking the origins of words\" and cited in the \"Chicago Tribune\" as one of the \"best resources for finding just the right word\". It is cited in academic work as a useful, though not definitive, reference for etymology. In addition, it has been used as a data source for quantitative scholarly research.\n"}
{"id": "27034424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27034424", "title": "Open-book contract", "text": "Open-book contract\n\nIn an open-book contract, the buyer and seller of work/services agree on (1) which costs are remunerable and (2) the margin that the supplier can add to these costs. The project is then invoiced to the customer based on the actual costs incurred plus the agreed margin. It is essentially the same as what is known (especially in the U.S.) as a cost-plus contract.\n\nThis contract form is popular to ensure that a competitive price is obtained, for instance in cases where tender competitions are impractical. It is also useful if the work is difficult to specify precisely up front, or if the buyer is not willing to pay for the risk-premium that sellers typically add when giving fixed prices.\n\nFrequently, an incentive is included for the supplier to give a realistic price and to minimize the costs during the project. Typically, the mechanism for such an incentive is that the supplier gets a bonus or penalty calculated as a percentage of the difference between the real cost of the project and an estimate provided up front. (Note: Setting the percentage at 100% would make the pricing identical to that of an EPCI contract).\n\nOpen-book contracts in third-party logistics services were popularised by John Anthony Harvey CBE, head of Tibbett & Britten Group plc, between 1984 and 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "54444308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54444308", "title": "Outstanding theses from the Courtauld Institute of Art", "text": "Outstanding theses from the Courtauld Institute of Art\n\nOutstanding theses from the Courtauld Institute of Art is a book series published by Garland of New York between 1984 and 1986 that reprinted outstanding PhD theses from the Courtauld Institute of Art that would otherwise have remained unpublished. The series was one of three major thesis series published by Garland, the others being Outstanding Dissertations in the Fine Arts and Outstanding Theses in the Fine Arts from British Universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "667945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=667945", "title": "Persona (1966 film)", "text": "Persona (1966 film)\n\nPersona is a 1966 Swedish psychological drama film, written and directed by Ingmar Bergman and starring Bibi Andersson and Liv Ullmann. The story revolves around a young nurse named Alma (Andersson) and her patient, well-known stage actress Elisabet Vogler (Ullmann), who has suddenly stopped speaking. They move to a cottage, where Alma cares for Elisabet, confides in her and begins having trouble distinguishing herself from her patient.\n\nWith elements of psychological horror, \"Persona\" has been the subject of considerable analysis, interpretation and debate. The film, with its themes of duality, insanity and personal identity, has been interpreted as depicting the Jungian theory of \"persona\" and explores cinema, vampire mythology, lesbianism, motherhood, abortion and other subjects. The experimental style of its prologue and storytelling has also been noted. The enigmatic film has been called the Mount Everest of cinematic analysis; according to film historian Peter Cowie, \"Everything one says about \"Persona\" may be contradicted; the opposite will also be true\".\n\nBergman wrote \"Persona\" with Ullmann and Andersson in mind for the lead roles and the idea of exploring their identities, and shot the film in Stockholm and Fårö in 1965. In production, the filmmakers experimented with effects, using smoke and a mirror to frame one scene and combining the lead characters' faces in post-production for one shot. Andersson defended a sexually explicit monologue in the screenplay, and rewrote portions of it.\nWhen first released, \"Persona\" was edited because of its controversial subject matter. It received positive reviews, with Swedish media coining the word \"Person(a)kult\" to describe its enthusiastic admirers. It won Best Film at the 4th Guldbagge Awards, and was Sweden's entry for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. The censored content was reinstated in English-language restorations in 2001. Many critics consider \"Persona\" one of the greatest films ever made, and it was ranked the fifth-best in \"Sight & Sound\"s 1972 poll and 17th in 2012. It also influenced many later directors, including Robert Altman and David Lynch.\n\nA projector begins screening a series of images, including a crucifixion, a spider and the killing of a lamb, and a boy wakes up in a hospital or morgue. He sees a large screen with a blurry image of two women. One of the women may be Alma, a young nurse assigned by a doctor to care for Elisabet Vogler. Elisabet is a stage actress who has suddenly stopped speaking and moving, which the doctors have determined is the result of willpower rather than physical or mental illness. In the hospital, Elisabet is distressed by television images of a man's self-immolation during the Vietnam War. Alma reads her a letter from her husband that contains a photo of their son, and the actress tears the photograph up. The doctor speculates that Elisabet may recover better in a cottage by the sea, and sends her there with Alma.\n\nAt the cottage, Alma tells Elisabet that no one has ever really listened to her before. She talks about her fiancé, Karl-Henrik, and her first affair. One night Alma tells a story of how, while she was already in a relationship with Karl-Henrik, she sunbathed in the nude with Katarina, a woman she had just met. Two young boys appeared, and Katarina initiated an orgy. Alma became pregnant, had an abortion and continues to feel guilty.\nAlma drives to town to mail their letters, and notices that Elisabet's is not sealed. She reads it. The letter says that Elisabet is \"studying\" Alma and mentions the nurse's orgy and abortion. Furious, Alma accuses Elisabet of using her for some purpose. In the resulting fight, she threatens to scald Elisabet with boiling water and stops when Elisabet begs her not to. This is the first time Alma is certain the actress has spoken since they met, though she thought Elisabet previously whispered to her when Alma was half-asleep. Alma tells her that she knows she is a terrible person; when Elisabet runs off, Alma chases her and begs for forgiveness. Later, Elisabet looks at the Stroop Report photograph of Jews arrested in the Warsaw Ghetto.\n\nOne night, Alma hears a man outside calling for Elisabet; it is Elisabet's husband. He calls Alma \"Elisabet\" and, though the nurse tells him he is mistaken, they have sex. Alma meets with Elisabet to talk about why Elisabet tore up the photo of her son. Alma tells much of Elisabet's story: that she wanted the only thing she did not have, motherhood, and became pregnant. Regretting her decision, Elisabet attempted a failed self-induced abortion and gave birth to a boy whom she despises, but her son craves her love. Alma ends the story in distress, asserting her identity and denying that she is Elisabet. She later coaxes Elisabet to say the word \"nothing\", and leaves the cottage as a crew films her.\n\nAccording to Bergman, the story had its roots in a chance encounter with past collaborator Bibi Andersson in a Stockholm street. Andersson, who was with Liv Ullmann, introduced Ullmann to him. Ullmann placed the meeting in 1964, and said that Bergman recognized her and asked her on the spot if she would like to work with him. He said that an image of the two women formed in his mind; in the hospital, he found an \"uncanny resemblance\" between the actresses in photographs of them sunbathing. This inspired the beginning of his story, a vision of two women \"wearing big hats and laying their hands alongside each other\". Andersson said, \"Liv and I had worked together before and we were very close\". Bergman had been in a romantic relationship with Andersson and was attracted to Ullmann; of \"Persona\"s conception, Andersson said, \"He saw our friendship, and he wanted to get ... inside of it. Involved\".\n\nBergman wrote \"Persona\" in nine weeks while recovering from pneumonia, and much of his work was done in the Sophiahemmet hospital. With this project, he abandoned his practice of writing finished and comprehensive screenplays before photography, allowing the script to develop as production proceeded. In the screenplay, the story ends with the doctor announcing that Elisabet has resumed speaking, reunited with her family and resumed acting. Alma remains on the island and plans to write Elisabet a letter until she sees the Holocaust photo and abandons her plan. Later in the production, this was replaced by the blood-drinking scene, Elisabet being taught to say the word \"nothing\" and Alma leaving the island.\n\nBergman appealed to filmmaker Kenne Fant for funding for the project. Supportive, Fant asked about the film's concept and Bergman shared his vision of women comparing hands. Fant assumed that the film would be inexpensive, and agreed to fund it. In his book \"Images\", Bergman wrote, \"Today I feel that in \"Persona\" — and later in \"Cries and Whispers\" — I had gone as far as I could go. And that in these two instances when working in total freedom, I touched wordless secrets that only the cinema can discover.\" He also said, \"At some time or other, I said that \"Persona\" saved my life—that is no exaggeration. If I had not found the strength to make that film, I would probably have been all washed up. One significant point: for the first time I did not care in the least whether the result would be a commercial success ...\" Although the filmmakers considered the titles \"Sonat för två kvinnor\" (\"Sonata for Two Women\"), \"Ett stycke kinematografi\" (\"A Piece of Cinematography\"), \"Opus 27\", and \"Kinematografi\", Fant suggested something more accessible and the film's title was changed.\n\nBergman had planned to cast Andersson and Ullmann in \"The Cannibals\", a large project he abandoned after becoming ill, but he still hoped to pair them in a project. Ullmann said that she began to be cast in Bergman's films beginning with the mute character, Elisabet: \"It was because my face could say what he wanted to say. That made me the one he wanted to work with ... because it was my face and I also understood what he was writing\". Steve Vineberg wrote that, with the conception of the project with Andersson and Ullmann, Bergman parted with his past uses of ensemble casts in films such as \"Smiles of a Summer Night\" and focused on two leads. Vineberg called the roles of Margaretha Krook and Gunnar Björnstrand \"abbreviated guest appearances\".\n\nBergman cast Jörgen Lindström as Elisabet's son after using him in his 1963 film \"The Silence\". Lindström (born 1951) was a child actor, and played children in other films. Bergman was the uncredited narrator.\n\nPrincipal photography took place on the island of Fårö (including Langhammars, with its rauks in the background, and Bergman's property at Hammars) and at Råsunda Studios in Stockholm. Shooting began on 19 July 1965 and wrapped by 15 September. Ullmann described the initial Stockholm shoot as marred by awkward performances and unprepared direction; the crew opted to retreat to Fårö, where Bergman found a house to shoot in. Fårö's weather was ideal during shooting; the crew redid much of the footage filmed in Stockholm, recreating the summer house on the Stockholm set and using a Fårö museum as the hospital.\n\nAndersson said that she and Ullmann agreed to play their parts as different sides of the same personality, and they assumed that personality was Bergman's. The actress said that they tried to balance each other in their performances. Bergman told his actresses not to ask him what each scene meant; Ullmann believed that cinematographer Sven Nykvist was also not informed of the director's intentions and left to work intuitively.\n\nAlthough the scene where Alma describes her orgy was in the screenplay, Andersson said in 1977 that Bergman had been advised to remove it from the film. She insisted that it be shot, volunteering to alter dialogue she felt was too obviously written by a man. The scene took two hours to shoot, using close-ups of Ullmann and Andersson in single takes. Andersson later said that while she thought some of her performances in films such as \"Wild Strawberries\" were \"corny\", she was proud of her work in \"Persona\". Ullmann described her response shots as an unprepared, natural reaction to the story's erotic nature.\n\nFor the scene in which Andersson and Ullmann meet in the bedroom at night and their faces overlap, a large amount of smoke was used in the studio to make a blurrier shot. Bergman used a mirror to compose the shots.\n\nThe screenplay called for a \"close-up of Alma with a strange resemblance to Elisabet\". On Fårö, Bergman conceived a shot where Ullmann and Andersson's faces merge into one. This was done by lighting what Bergman considered the unflattering side of each actress's face in different shots and combining the lighted sides. The actresses were unaware of the effect until a screening in the Moviola. Neither actress recognized herself in the resulting imagery, each assuming that the shot was of the other.\n\nAccording to Ullmann, the scene where Alma describes Elisabet's motherhood was filmed with two cameras, one filming each actress, and shots of each were intended to be mixed in editing. Then Bergman decided that each angle communicated something important and used both in their entirety, one after the other.\n\nBergman was unhappy with the sound in the scene where Alma describes the orgy, so he told Andersson to reread the scene, which she did in a lower voice. It was recorded and dubbed in.\n\nThe score, by Lars Johan Werle, uses four cellos, three violins and other instruments. Werle described his effort to meet Bergman's requests without a description of the scenes Werle would score:\n\nIn addition to Werle's score, the filmmakers sampled Johann Sebastian Bach's Violin Concerto in E major.\n\n\"Persona\" has been subject to a variety of interpretations. According to Professor Thomas Elsaesser, the film \"has been for film critics and scholars what climbing Everest is for mountaineers: the ultimate professional challenge. Besides \"Citizen Kane\", it is probably the most written-about film in the canon\". Critic Peter Cowie wrote, \"Everything one says about \"Persona\" may be contradicted; the opposite will also be true\". Academic Frank Gado called Cowie's assessment \"patent nonsense\", but agreed there was \"critical disarray\"; editor Lloyd Michaels said that although Cowie exaggerated somewhat, he welcomed the \"critical licence\" to study the film.\n\nFilm scholar Marc Gervais has suggested several possible interpretations: \"a metaphor of the subconscious or unconscious\", \"one personality consuming the other\", \"the fusing of two personalities into one\", or \"the different sides of the same personality fleetingly merging\". Gado suggested that \"Persona\" was \"an investigation of schizophrenia, a story about lesbian attraction, or a parable about the artist\".\n\nBergman said that although he had an idea of what the story meant, he would not share it because he felt that his audience should draw its own conclusions. He hoped the film would be felt rather than understood.\n\nMichaels summarized what he calls \"the most widely held view\" of \"Persona\": that it is \"a kind of modernist horror movie\". Elisabet's condition, described by a doctor as \"the hopeless dream to be\", is \"the shared condition of both life and film art\".\n\nThe \"silence of God\" is a theme Bergman explored extensively in his previous work. According to author Paul Coates, \"Persona\" was the \"aftermath\" of that exploration. Gervais added that \"Persona\" and other Bergman films between 1965 and 1970 were not \"God-centred\". Gervais also quoted philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche as a guide to understanding \"Persona\": \"Belief in the absolute immorality of Nature, in lack of purpose, and in meaninglessness, is the \"affect\" psychologically necessary once belief in God and an essentially moral order is no longer supportable\".\n\nAnalysis has focused on the characters' resemblance, demonstrated in shots of overlapping faces in which one face is visible and part of another is seen behind it, suggesting the possibility that the characters are one, and their duality. Critic John Simon commented, \"This duality can be embodied in two persons, as it is here, but it has a distinct relevance to the contradictory aspects of a single person\". If they are one person, the questions exist of whether Alma is fantasizing about the actress she admires, Elisabet is examining her psyche, or the boy is trying to understand his mother. Susan Sontag suggested that \"Persona\" is a series of variations on the theme of \"doubling\". According to Sontag, the film's subject is \"violence of the spirit\". Professor Irving Singer, examining the shot in which Alma and Elisabet's faces are combined, compared its repulsive effect to that of seeing Robert Louis Stevenson's character Mr. Hyde instead of his benign alter ego, Dr. Jekyll. Singer wrote that Bergman expanded on Stevenson's exploration of duality, the \"good and evil, light and dark aspects of our nature\", depicting it as \"oneness\" in the shot.\n\nGado saw \"Persona\" as a \"double-threaded process of discovery involving motherhood\". Elisabet's withdrawal into silence could be her rejection of motherhood, the only role the actress could not slough off. The nurse realizes that she has done what Elisabet tried and failed to do: erase a child from her life by abortion. Psychiatrist Barbara Young viewed the boy in the morgue in the film's prologue as a stand-in for Bergman, in a morgue he remembered, reaching out to his mother. Young compared Bergman's relationship with his mother, Karin, to Alma (\"hungry for someone to listen to her and to love her\") and Elisabet (\"ravenous for precious time\").\n\nAbout the theme of duality, author Birgitta Steene wrote that Alma represents the soul and Elisabet a \"stern\" goddess. Theologian Hans Nystedt called Elisabet a symbol of God, and Alma symbolic of mortal consciousness. Coates noted the \"female face\" or \"near-Goddess\" succeeding the God previously studied by Bergman, referring to Jungian theories to examine the themes of duality and identity; two different people, with a \"grounding in one self\", trade identities. Coates described Elisabet as a fusion of the mythological figures Thanatos and Eros, with Alma as her \"hapless counterpart\", and a close-up suggesting death.\n\n\"Persona\" title reflects the Latin word for \"mask\" and Carl Jung's theory of \"persona\", an external identity separate from the soul (\"alma\"). Jung believed that people project public images to protect themselves, and can come to identify with their personae. An interviewer asked Bergman about the Jungian connotations of the film's title, acknowledging an alternative interpretation that it references persona masks worn by actors in ancient drama, but saying that Jung's concept \"admirably\" matched the film. Bergman agreed, saying that Jung's theory \"fits well in this case\". Coates also connected masks to themes of identity and duality: \"The mask is Janus-faced\".\n\nAlma's secret is revealed in her orgy monologue, and critic Robin Wood related it to a combination of shame and nostalgia perhaps indicating the character's sexual liberation. According to Wood, the incident touched on unfaithfulness and juvenile sexuality; in Swedish, the young boys are called \"pojkar\" and are in need of coaching. Arnold Weinstein wrote that Alma's story is the hardest-hitting example of the \"cracks\" in the character's mask, belying her persona of a nurse and leading to a \"collapse of self\". Her monologue is so intense that it verges on pornography, although there is no depiction of the sexual escapade.\n\nCinema historian P. Adams Sitney summarized the story as following the course of psychoanalysis: a referral, followed by the first interview, disclosures and the discovery of the patient's root problem. According to Sitney, the story seems to begin from Alma's point of view; after Elisabet compares their hands, her point of view is revealed as the source of the story.\n\nAnother possible reference to psychology is that when Elisabet falls mute, the play she is in is \"Electra\" by Sophocles or Euripides. According to Wood, Bergman did not focus on Greek tragedy in his work but the character of Electra inspired the idea of the Electra complex. Sitney felt that Bergman's choice of play related to \"sexual identities\", a key concept in psychoanalysis.\n\nThe story fits Bergman's motif of \"warring women\", seen earlier in \"The Silence\" and later in \"Cries and Whispers\" and \"Autumn Sonata\". According to Professor Marilyn Johns Blackwell, Elisabet's resistance to speaking can be interpreted as resistance to her gender role. By depicting this tension as experienced primarily by women, Bergman may be said to \"problematize the position of woman as other\"; the role society assigns women is \"essentially foreign to their subjecthood\". Blackwell wrote that the attraction between Elisabet and Alma and the absence of male sexuality cohere with their identification with each other, creating a doubling that reveals the \"multiple, shifting, self-contradictory identity\" (a notion of identity that undermines male ideology). The theme of merging and doubling surfaces early in the film, when Alma says that she saw one of Elisabet's films and was struck by the thought that they were alike. Blackwell also writes that one of the film's original titles, \"A Piece of Cinematography\", may allude to the nature of representation.\n\nAnalysts have noted possible lesbian under- and overtones. Alison Darren profiled \"Persona\" in her \"Lesbian Film Guide\", calling Alma and Elisabet's relationship \"halfway between love and hate\"; they may come close to having sex in one scene, \"though this might easily be an illusion\". Scholar Gwendolyn Audrey Foster interpreted the film in feminist terms as a depiction of lesbianism, viewing the scene where Elisabet enters Alma's room as seduction. Professor Alexis Luko also felt that the characters' touching and resemblance in the scene, in addition to symbolizing their personalities merging, indicated intimacy and eroticism.\n\nFoster believed that Elisabet's gaze presents Alma with questions about her engagement to Karl-Henrik. According to Foster, sexual encounters between men and women are associated with abortion; lesbian romance has an increasingly shared identity. But if \"Persona\" dramatizes a lesbian relationship, it is not clearly favorable, as it is later characterized by narcissism and violence. If lesbianism is considered a stronger version of female friendship, or motherly love, Alma and Elisabet's relationship replaces the depiction of the Oedipus complex in the prologue when the boy reaches for his mother in vain. According to Jeremi Szaniawski, Bergman's use of homoeroticism (gay and lesbian) in \"Persona\", \"Hour of the Wolf\", \"Cries and Whispers\" and \"Face to Face\" was a rebellion against his strict upbringing by Church of Sweden minister Erik Bergman.\n\"Persona\" is the Latin word for \"mask\" and referred to a mouthpiece actors wore to increase the audibility of their lines. In Greek drama, \"persona\" came to mean a character, separate from an actor. Bergman often used the theatre as a setting in his films.\n\nElisabet is a stage actress and, according to Singer, is seen in \"mask-like makeup\" suggesting a \"theatrical persona\". Singer wrote that Elisabet wears \"thick and artificial eyelashes\" even when she is not acting. Scholar Egil Törnqvist noted that when Elisabet is onstage as Electra, she looks away from the theatre audience and breaks the fourth wall by looking at the camera. According to Törnqvist, Elisabet makes a fist, symbolizing her revolt against the notion of meaningful performance. Singer concluded that although Elisabet develops a very personal relationship with Alma, she cannot shed her \"persona\" as an actress and will remain lonely with \"the hopeless dream of being\".\nAccording to Singer, Bergman confronts his viewers with \"the nature of his art form\". Literary critic Maria Bergom-Larsson wrote that \"Persona\" reflected Bergman's approach to filmmaking. Although Alma initially believes that artists \"created out of compassion, out of a need to help\", she sees Elisabet laugh at performances on a radio program and finds herself the subject of the actress's study. She rejects her earlier belief: \"How stupid of me\". As Elisabet studies Alma, Bergman studies them both.\n\nMichaels wrote that Bergman and Elisabet share a dilemma: they cannot respond authentically to \"large catastrophes\", such as the Holocaust or the Vietnam War. Political columnist Carsten Jensen identified the Vietnam footage Elisabet sees as the 1963 self-immolation of Thích Quảng Đức. According to Jensen, photographs of Quảng Đức's death were widely circulated and were used in \"Persona\". Academic Benton Meadows wrote that Elisabet sees herself in Quảng Đức's death, fearing that it would be a consequence of her silent rebellion. Törnqvist wrote that Elisabet is struck by the truth that the monk is a true rebel, while her rebellion is a cowardly retreat behind a \"persona\" of muteness.\n\n\"Persona\" also includes symbolism about vampirism. In 1973, \"Dagens Nyheter\" critic Lars-Olaf Franzen interpreted Alma as a stand-in for the audience and Elisabet as an \"irresponsible artist and vampire\". According to the British Film Institute, Elisabet \"vampiristically\" devours Alma's personality; the actress is also seen drinking blood from Alma. Gervais wrote that \"Persona\" is \"an impressionistic vampire film\". Törnqvist called the vampire portrayal \"Strindbergian\", connecting it to the spider seen in the prologue and the \"fat spider\" mentioned in the screenplay (but omitted from the final cut).\n\nAlthough psychologist Daniel Shaw interpreted Elisabet as a vampire and Alma as her \"sacrificial lamb\", Bergman replied when asked if Alma was entirely consumed:\n\"Persona\" has been called an experimental film. Singer acknowledged Marc Gervais's theory that its style is a postmodern rejection of \"realistic narration\", although he said this was of secondary importance to its commentary on cinema. \"The Independent\" journalist Christopher Hooton said that symmetry was used and the fourth wall sometimes broken, quoting essayist Steven Benedict on the use of \"reflections, splitting the screen, and shadows\". The fourth wall seems to break when Alma and Elisabet look into the camera and when Elisabet takes photographs in the direction of the camera. \nThe BFI called \"Persona\" \"stylistically radical\", noting its use of close-ups. \"Senses of Cinema\" journalist Hamish Ford also noted its \"radical aesthetics\", citing a \"genuinely avant-garde prologue\". Critic Geoff Pevere called the prologue \"one of the most audacious reset clicks in movie history\". He summarized the blankness before a projector runs, leading to clips of classic animation, a comedic silent film, crucifixion and a penis, concluding that it summarized cinema. The montage's imagery is \"rapid-fire\", with Bergman saying the penis is onscreen for one-sixth of a second and intended to be \"subliminal\". The sheep is from Luis Buñuel's 1929 \"Un Chien Andalou\", and the personification of Death was used in Bergman's 1949 film \"Prison\". Michaels linked the spider in the prologue with the \"spider-god\" in Bergman's 1961 \"Through a Glass Darkly\". Törnqvist said that the spider is visible under a microscope, indicating its use for study. When the boy reaches out to his mother, it is to shifting photographs of Ullmann and Andersson. In addition to the prologue, the story is interrupted by a midpoint celluloid break.\n\nScenes creating a \"strange\" or \"eerie\" effect include Elisabet entering Alma's room, where it is uncertain if she is sleepwalking or Alma is having a dream, and Mr. Vogler having sex with Alma; it is uncertain if he mistook her for Elisabet. Other scenes are \"dreamlike—sometimes nightmarish\". The story's small scale is supplemented with references to external horrors, such as images of self-immolation—included in the opening sequence and the hospital scene—and the Holocaust photograph, the subject of increasing close-ups.\n\nBiographer Jerry Vermilye wrote that despite experimenting with colour in 1964's \"All These Women\", \"Persona\" represented Bergman and Nykvist's return to the \"stark black-and-white austerity of earlier chamber pieces\". They include \"Through a Glass Darkly\", \"Winter Light\" and \"The Silence\", with Vermilye calling \"Persona\" a sequel to the \"trilogy\". Bergman returned to \"Through a Glass Darkly\"s Fårö for its backdrop, which he used symbolically. According to Professor John Orr, an island setting offered \"boldness and fluidity\" that brought different dynamics to the drama. Orr wrote that the \"island romanticism\" was a transition from Bergman's earlier films into \"dream and abstraction\". Examining the visuals and the depiction of social isolation and mourning, critics Christopher Heathcote and Jai Marshall found parallels to Edvard Munch's paintings.\n\nAccording to Vineberg, Ullmann and Andersson's acting styles are dictated by the fact that Andersson does nearly all the talking. She delivers monologues, and Ullmann is a \"naturalistic mime\". A notable exception is when Elisabet is coaxed into saying the word \"nothing\", which Vineberg called ironic. Elisabet speaks only 14 words; Bergman said, \"The human face is the great subject of the cinema. Everything is there\". Vineberg wrote that the performances use the \"mirror exercise\", in which the actresses look directly at each other; one makes facial movements which the other tries to imitate. Ford wrote that Ullmann's performance is defined by \"twitching lips, ambivalent gazes and vampyric desire\".\nMusic and other sounds also define Bergman's style. This includes the prologue, with a \"discordant\" score accompanied by dripping and a ringing telephone. In the scene where Elisabet meets Alma in her bedroom, foghorns accompany Werle's music. Musicologist Alexis Luko described the score as conveying \"semantic meaning\" with \"diabolus in musica\" (\"the devil in music\"), a common style in horror cinema. The addition of a foghorn indicates a meeting of \"diegetic and non-diegetic\", complementing the breaking of the fourth wall when Alma and Elisabet look at the audience. The music Elisabet hears in the hospital, Bach's Violin Concerto in E major, is meant to be \"nice and soothing\" and divert Elisabet from her mental torment. It fails to comfort; Wood calls it one of Bach's \"most somber and tragic utterances\", and the scene's lighting darkens accordingly. According to Luko, Elisabet's lack of sound (muteness) makes her fit \"the cinematic profile of a powerful, pseudo-omniscient mute\".\n\n\"Persona\" was released on 31 August 1966, and its promotional premiere took place on 18 October 1966 at the Spegeln cinema in Stockholm. Its screenplay was published as a book in Sweden that year. The film's box-office losses qualified it for subsidies from the Swedish Film Institute. Combined with the institute's earlier production grant, the project received from the SFI.\n\nIt opened in the U.S. on 6 March 1967, where it grossed $250,000. Distributed by United Artists, it debuted at the New York Film Festival with UA marketing highlighting the leads' similar appearance. The marketing quoted critics, particularly about Alma's erotic monologue. \"Persona\" finished its New York run after one month, which was considered disappointing. In Brazil, it was released as \"Quando as mulheres pecam\" (\"Where Women Sin\") to emphasize its sexuality. \"Persona\" was released in the United Kingdom in 1967, using subtitles when many foreign-language films were still dubbed.\n\nTwo scenes censored from the U.S. and U.K. versions of the film were a brief shot at the beginning of an erect penis and some of the translation of Alma's nighttime monologue about her \"ménage à quatre\", oral sex and abortion. MGM archivist John Kirk restored the censored material, based on four translations, and translated 30 to 40 percent more of Alma's dialogue in the censored scene. Kirk's version was screened at the Film Forum in New York City and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in 2001. Much of the censored material was included in Region 1 in the MGM DVD released in 2004, and on The Criterion Collection's 2014 Blu-ray 2K restoration.\n\nThe 1999 Toronto International Film Festival featured a screening of \"Persona\" as part of \"Dialogues: Talking with Pictures\", with classic films and a talk by Canadian filmmaker Patricia Rozema. In February 2002, it screened in the Retrospective section of the 52nd Berlin International Film Festival.\n\nThe film was released to favorable reviews in the Swedish and U.S. press. In Sweden, \"Dagens Nyheter\" critic Olaf Lagercrantz said that a cult following of Swedish critics had developed by October 1966 and coined the name \"Person(a)kult\" for them. In \"Svenska Dagbladet\", Stig Wikander called it \"a gnostic quest for divine nothingness\". In 1966, theologian Hans Nystedt compared the film to the writings of Hjalmar Sundén.\n\nThe Swedish Film Institute magazine \"Chaplin\" reported that the \"Person(a)kult\" had spread beyond Sweden by 1967. In one of his first reviews, Roger Ebert gave the film four stars; he called it \"a difficult, frustrating film\", and said that it (and Elisabet) \"stubbornly refuse to be conventional and to respond as we expect\". Bosley Crowther, writing for \"The New York Times\", called \"Persona\" a \"lovely, moody film which, for all its intense emotionalism, makes some tough intellectual demands\". Crowther wrote that its \"interpretation is tough\", and \"Miss Ullmann and Miss Andersson just about carry the film—and exquisitely, too\". According to the \"Variety\" staff, \"There is no denying the absorbing theme and the perfection in direction, acting, editing and lensing\"; they called Andersson's performance a \"tour de force\", concluding: \"Bergman has come up with probably one of his most masterful films technically and in conception, but also one of his most difficult ones\". \"Time\" magazine's review said that the film \"fuses two of Bergman's familiar obsessions: personal loneliness and the particular anguish of contemporary woman\". In the 1972 British Film Institute \"Sight & Sound\" poll, \"Persona\" was ranked the fifth-greatest film of all time, the highest placing of a Swedish film.\n\nEssayists and critics have called \"Persona\" one of the 20th century's major artistic works, and Bergman's masterpiece. \"The Independent\" critic Geoffrey Macnab noted that a number of other critics considered it among the greatest films of all time. \"Empire\"s David Parkinson gave the film five stars in 2000, noting its variety of interpretations and attributing them to Bergman's distortion of the border between real life and fantasy and calling it a \"devastating treatise on mortal and intellectual impotence\". Ebert added it to his Great Movies list in 2001, calling it \"a film we return to over the years, for the beauty of its images and because we hope to understand its mysteries\". Peter Bradshaw gave it four of five stars in his 2003 \"The Guardian\" review, calling it \"a startling, even gripping essay\". For \"The Chicago Tribune\", Michael Wilmington awarded it four stars in 2006 and praised it as \"one of the screen's supreme works and perhaps Ingmar Bergman's finest film\". In 2007, \"Aftonbladet\" called its prologue one of the most memorable moments of Bergman's filmography. \"The New Yorker\"s Pauline Kael said the end result was a \"pity\", but the scene where Alma describes her orgy is \"one of the rare truly erotic sequences in movie history\".\nReviewing \"Persona\" home video, Richard Brody credited Bergman for a work that shed realism with special effects and conveyed \"a tactile visual intimacy\", and praised the film's island setting. Leonard Maltin gave the film stars in his \"2013 Movie Guide\", calling it \"haunting, poetic, for discerning viewers\". According to \"Time Out\"s review, Elisabet can (despite her fraud) be understood: \"not an easy film, but an infinitely rewarding one\". \"Chicago Reader\" critic Dave Kehr wrote that it might be Bergman's best, but objected to its unoriginal ideas (for an experimental film) and tediousness. Emanuel Levy reviewed \"Persona\" in 2016, calling it a complicated, mysterious and artistic psychological drama with experimentation presenting a novel result.\n\nThe film was included in \"The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made\". In 2010, \"Persona\" was ranked 71st in \"Empire\" magazine's \"100 Best Films Of World Cinema\". In the 2012 \"Sight & Sound\" polls, it was ranked the 17th-greatest film ever made in the critics' poll (tied with Akira Kurosawa's \"Seven Samurai\") and 13th in the directors' poll. In 2017, \"The Daily Telegraph\" called \"Persona\" one of \"the most pretentious movies of all time\" and a \"wholly subjective\" exercise. The film has an 89% approval rating at Rotten Tomatoes, based on 46 reviews.\n\n\"Persona\" won the Best Film award at the 4th Guldbagge Awards. It was Bergman's first work to win the National Society of Film Critics Award for Best Film; his 1973 \"Scenes from a Marriage\" was his only other film so honoured. Although it was the Swedish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 39th Academy Awards, the film was not accepted by the academy.\nSome of Bergman's later films, such as \"Shame\" (1968) and \"The Passion of Anna\" (1969), have similar themes of the \"artist as fugitive\", guilt and self-hatred. Robert Altman's 1972 psychological horror film \"Images\" is influenced by \"Persona\". Altman's 1977 film \"3 Women\" takes cues from Bergman as Shelley Duvall and Sissy Spacek's characters (Millie and Pinky) shift roles and identities. A spoof of \"Persona\" appeared on the Canadian television program \"SCTV\" during the late 1970s. Woody Allen's films \"Love and Death\" (1975) and \"Stardust Memories\" (1980) contain brief references to the film. Jean-Luc Godard included a parody of Andersson's orgy monologue in his 1967 film \"Weekend\", in a scene where Mireille Darc describes a threesome with a lover and his girlfriend involving eggs and a bowl of milk.\n\nDavid Lynch's 2001 film \"Mulholland Drive\" deals with similar themes of identity and has two female characters whose identities appear to merge. With its thematic similarities, the film's \"mysterious dreamlike quality\" is evidence of Bergman's (and particularly \"Persona's\") influence. David Fincher's \"Fight Club\" refers to \"Persona\" subliminal erect penis. Parallels to \"two (usually isolated) women in an intense relationship slowly blending and morphing into one another\" may be seen in the competing ballerinas in Darren Aronofsky's \"Black Swan\" (2010) and the sisters in Lars von Trier's \"Melancholia\" (2011). In 2016, \"The Independent\" reported on a video essay about \"Persona\"s influence that compared shots in \"Don't Look Now\" (1973), \"Apocalypse Now\" (1979) and \"The Silence of the Lambs\" (1991); some shots predated \"Persona\", and appear in Alfred Hitchcock's \"Vertigo\" (1958) and \"Psycho\" (1960).\n\nAfter Bergman's death in 2007, his residence and the \"Persona\" filming location at Hammars on Fårö was assessed at 35 million kr and sold. A stage adaptation, Hugo Hansén's \"Persona\", played in Stockholm in 2011 and starred Sofia Ledarp and Frida Westerdah. Another adaptation, \"Deformerad Persona\" by Mattias Andersson and his sister, Ylva Andersson, addressed multiple sclerosis and premiered at the Royal Dramatic Theatre in 2016. Director Stig Björkman and Ullmmann collaborated on a 2009 documentary, \"Scener från ett konstnärskap\", with recordings of Bergman during the production of \"Persona\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31090821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31090821", "title": "Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair", "text": "Personnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair\n\nPersonnage Gothique, Oiseau-Eclair is a bronze sculpture by Joan Miró.\n\nIt was created in 1974, and cast in 1977. It is in the National Gallery of Art Sculpture Garden, Washington, USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43232455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43232455", "title": "Photography and the Archive Research Centre", "text": "Photography and the Archive Research Centre\n\nPhotography and the Archive Research Centre (PARC) is an organisation in London that commissions new research into photography and culture, curates and produces exhibitions and publications, organises seminars, study days, symposia and conferences, and supervises PhD students. It is a part of University of the Arts London (UAL), is based at UAL's London College of Communication at Elephant & Castle and was designated by UAL in 2003.\n\nAccording to PARC's website its activities span the history and culture of photography, particularly post-war British photography, the documentation of war and conflict, the photography of fashion and style, the visualization of the counterculture and photographers as filmmakers.\n\nVal Williams is its director and Brigitte Lardinois its deputy director. The Centre has a core group of members including Tom Hunter, Alistair O'Neill, Patrick Sutherland, Wiebke Leister, Jennifer Good (née Pollard), David Moore, Paul Lowe, Corinne Silva, Paul Tebbs, Mark Ingham, Martina Caruso, Peter Cattrell, Monica Biaglioli, Anne Williams, Jananne Al-Ani, Sophy Rickett, Joanna Love and Sara Davidmann. Current staff are Corinne Silva (Research Fellow), Robin Christian (Projects Manager) and Melanie King (Research Administrator).\n\nMany of PARC's activities are conducted in conjunction with other arts organisations and universities including University of Sunderland, National Media Museum in Bradford, Library of Birmingham, Canterbury Christ Church University, Street Level Photoworks in Glasgow, Wolverhampton Art Gallery, Ffotogallery in Cardiff, Imperial War Museum in London, Photoworks in Brighton, University of Western Ontario in Canada, Expressions of Humankind and Max Ström publishers in Stockholm, Sune Jonsson Archive in Umea, Tate Modern and University of Wales, Newport.\n\nTwo of PARC's divisions are War and Conflict Research Hub and Photography and the Contemporary Imaginary Research Hub.\n\nPARC publishes \"Fieldstudy\" twice yearly, both in print and online, covering projects from PARC's staff, members and students.\n\nPARC and Bloomsbury co-host the journal \"Photography & Culture\", co-edited by Kathy Kubicki, Thy Phu and Val Williams, published three times a year by Berg.\n\nPARC leads the \"Directory of Photographic Collections in the UK\", a portal to UK institutions holding publicly accessible photographic collections.\n\nPARC currently houses three collections within its archive, ‘Camerawork’, ‘Photography Exhibition Posters’ and ‘The John Wall archive of the Directory of British Photographic Collections in the UK’. 'Photography Exhibition Posters' is a collection of over 300 posters dating back to the 1970s that features examples of partnerships between designers and galleries. The ‘Camerawork’ collection includes papers and objects from the Half Moon Photography Workshop and Camerawork’s early years, publication and touring exhibition programme. ‘The John Wall archive of the Directory of British Photographic Collections in the UK’ includes correspondence, research papers and file cards of this 1970s project.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21323562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21323562", "title": "Proclamation of the abolition of the monarchy", "text": "Proclamation of the abolition of the monarchy\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the proclamation of the abolition of the monarchy (French: \"Proclamation de l'abolition de la royauté\") was a proclamation by the National Convention of France announcing that it had abolished the French monarchy on 21 September 1792.\n\nThe Convention's députés were instructed to put an end to the crisis that had broken out since the prevented flight to Varennes of Louis XVI (June 1791) and the bloody capture of the Tuileries (10 August 1792). Their middle-class origin and their political activity meant that most of them bore no sympathy for the monarchy, and the victory at the battle of Valmy on 20 September (the revolution's first military success) occurred on the same day as their meeting, thus confirming their convictions.\n\nWhen the député for Paris, Jean-Marie Collot d'Herbois, proposed abolition he met with little resistance; at most, Claude Basire, friend of Georges Jacques Danton, tried to temper the enthusiasm, recommending a discussion before any decision. However, abbé Henri Grégoire, constitutional bishop of Blois, replied strongly to any suggestion of discussion:\n\nJean-François Ducos supported him in affirming that any discussion would be useless \"after the lights spread by 10 August\". The summary argument served as a debate and the decision taken was unanimous, giving birth to the First French Republic.\n\nIn the wake of the proclamation, efforts grew to eliminate the vestiges of the \"ancien regime\". As the date of the Republic's first anniversary approached, the Convention passed a set of laws replacing many familiar \"ancien\" systems of order and measurement, including the old Christian calendar. This dramatic change was powerful encouragement to the growing wave of anticlericalism which sought a dechristianisation of France. The new French Republican Calendar discarded all Christian reference points and calculated time from the Republic's first full day after the monarchy, 22 September 1792, the first day of Year One.\n\n"}
{"id": "39395048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39395048", "title": "R v Mubila", "text": "R v Mubila\n\nR v Mubila is an important case in South African and Zimbabwean criminal law, heard on August 17, 1955, in which the accused was charged with murder. DP McCormac appeared for the Crown, and John Morris for the accused.\n\nIts significance lies particularly in the area of legal causation. The court expressed negatively the idea of a proximate cause, with the statement that there must be no \"novus actus interveniens\" between X's conduct and Y's death; it also expressed it positively, in the contention that Y's death must follow directly from X's conduct.\n\nThe court held that, when a complainant has been injured as the result of an assault upon him, he has no obligation to obtain medical assistance to alleviate the gravity of the wound. Nor is there any obligation on him to follow rigidly all the advice given him by his medical advisers if he does seek that assistance. Provided that, in disregarding that advice, he does not introduce some new danger which would not have existed had the advice never been taken at all, his failure to follow that advice cannot be a factor which can avail the accused in any argument that the original injury was not the cause of death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12975369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12975369", "title": "Robert Goldwater Library", "text": "Robert Goldwater Library\n\nThe Robert Goldwater Library in the department of the Arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas, of The Metropolitan Museum of Art is a noncirculating research library dedicated to the documentation of visual arts of sub-Saharan Africa, the Pacific Islands, and Native and Precolumbian America. The library is open to adult researchers, including college and graduate students.\n\nCollections\nThe Library collection comprises over 20,000 books published worldwide, with an additional 10,000 volumes of periodicals, including current subscriptions to 200 journals. Subject strengths include the art and material culture of West Africa, Papua New Guinea and Irian Jaya (Indonesia), and Precolumbian Mexico and Peru, with extensive holdings in related disciplines such as anthropology, ethnology, and archaeology. The library routinely collects exhibition and auction sales catalogs, as well as academic theses and dissertations.\n\nWATSONLINE, the Museum's online library catalog, provides access to the Goldwater Library's holdings, with searching available by author, title, subject, keyword, or call number.\n\nHistory\nThe library of the Museum of Primitive Art, located on West 54th Street in Manhattan, opened to the public in 1957. The Museum, founded by Nelson Rockefeller, was devoted entirely to the arts of the indigenous cultures of Africa, Oceania, and the Americas and to those art objects related to the early civilizations of Asia and Europe. The museum closed in 1975. The library's holdings were transferred, with other holdings of that institution, to The Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1978. In January 1982 the library reopened to the public as the Robert Goldwater Library. Robert Goldwater (1907–1973) was the first director of the Museum of Primitive Art and a renowned scholar in both modern and African art. His \"Primitivism in Modern Art\", initially published in 1938, was the pioneering study of the subject.\n\nHours and Access\nThe Goldwater Library's collections are available to researchers by request in the Watson Library. Materials will be paged from the Goldwater Library twice a day, Monday through Friday, for use in Watson during Watson Library hours. Museum visitors intending only to use the libraries do not pay Museum admission.\n\nLocated on the mezzanine level of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing, the library is accessible by advance appointment on Tuesdays and Thursday, from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007425", "title": "Rough Guides", "text": "Rough Guides\n\nRough Guides Ltd is a British travel guidebook and reference publisher, since November 2017 owned by APA Publications. Its travel titles cover more than 200 destinations. The series began with the 1982 \"Rough Guide to Greece\", a book conceived by Mark Ellingham, who was dissatisfied with the polarisation of existing guidebooks between cost-obsessed student guides and \"heavyweight cultural tomes\". \n\nInitially, the series was aimed at low-budget backpackers. The Rough Guides books have incorporated more expensive recommendations since the early 1990s, and books have had colour printing since the late 1990s, which are now marketed to travellers on all budgets. Much of the books' travel content is also available online.\n\nEllingham left Rough Guides in November 2007, after the company had celebrated \"25 Rough Years\" with a celebratory series of books, to set up a new green and ethical imprint, GreenProfile, at Profile Books. Rough Guides was run from 2003 until later in the decade by co-founder Martin Dunford (travel) and Andrew Lockett (reference), under the aegis of Penguin before their merger with Random House. \n\nIn 2017, Rough Guides was sold to APA Publications, parent of Insight Guides. It is now based at APA's offices in Tooley Street, near London Bridge.\n\nThe slogan of Rough Guides is \"Make the Most of Your Time on Earth\".\n\nMost of the series' early titles were written or edited by John Fisher, Jack Holland and Martin Dunford, who along with Mark Ellingham were co-founders and owners of Rough Guides. In 1995, they negotiated the sale of the series to Penguin Books, a process which was completed in 2002.\n\nIn 1994, the first ever non-travel Rough Guides books were published: \"The Rough Guide to World Music\" and \"The Rough Guide to Classical Music\". The success of these titles encouraged Rough Guides’ expansion into other areas of publishing to cover a range of reference subjects, including music – covering genres such as world music, rock, hip-hop, jazz, and individual artists – and topics such as film, literature, popular science, ethical living, true crime, Shakespeare, pregnancy and birth, plus the Internet and related subjects such as e-Bay, blogging and iPods.\n\nRough Guides migrated to digital platforms with the launch of Rough Guides city guides for iOS, Android and Windows platforms, interactive e-books and downloadable guide chapters. In January 2013 Rough Guides launched a new website.\n\nIn association with UK-based record label World Music Network, Rough Guides has issued over 350 recorded anthologies of the music of various nations and regions. In addition to their \"Rough Guide\" Series, the record label World Music Network has released 130 recordings in their other \"Introducing\", \"Riverboat\", and \"Think Global\" Series.\n\nAlbums released in the series include \"The Rough Guide to...\" Bhangra, Tito Puente, Romanian Gypsies, Hungarian Gypsies and Ali Hassan Kuban.\n\nIn the late 1980s, the Rough Guides brand was spun off into a series of travel shows on United Kingdom television channel BBC 2. Initially part of Janet Street Porter's DEF II strand, alongside Rapido and Jovanotti's Gimme 5, the show outlasted the 'yoof-TV' strand and became established in BBC 2's early 1990s evening schedule.\n\nLater editions of the show, usually hosted by Sigue Sigue Sputnik associate Magenta Devine (with various male co-presenters through the show's run), were repeated on the Sky Travel channel until 2005.\n\nA new Rough Guide series of fifteen thirty-minute programmes started production in November 2007 and began airing on Channel 5 (the UK's fifth terrestrial channel), on 7 January 2008. A second 'Rough Guide to…' series was aired starting in November 2008.\n\nIn spring 2006, Mark Ellingham said he had grave concerns about the growth of air travel because of its growing contribution to climate change.\nHe launched a joint awareness campaign with Tony Wheeler (Lonely Planet founder), and Rough Guides began including a \"health warning\" in each of its travel guides, urging readers to \"Fly less, stay longer\" wherever possible.\n"}
{"id": "24019157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24019157", "title": "Sabalan, Safad", "text": "Sabalan, Safad\n\nSabalan (, \"Sabalân\") was a Palestinian Arab village in the Safad Subdistrict, located northwest of Safad. It stood at an elevation of above sea level overlooking the Druze village of Hurfeish. In 1945, Sabalan had a population of 70. It was depopulated during the 1948 Palestine War.\n\nIn 1881, the Palestine Exploration Fund's \"Survey of Western Palestine\" (SWP) described \"Neby Sebelan\" as \"a village, built of stone, surrounding the tomb of the Neby Sebalan; containing about 100 Moslems; on top of high hill, with figs, olives, and arable land. There are four good springs to the east, besides cisterns.\" Some believe Sabalan is supposed to be Zebulun, the son of Jacob, while others claim he was a \"da'is\" (\"missionary\") who joined the Druze religion and helped promote it in the region. Archaeological artifacts, namely rock-cut tombs are located near the tomb.\n\nA population list from about 1887 showed \"Nebi Abu Sebalan\" to have about 75 inhabitants; all Muslims.\nIn the British Mandate period, it had a circular plan with most of its houses being closely clustered together. Because of the steep slopes that surrounded Sabalan, the village was only able to expand on its northwestern end. Although the tomb of Nabi Sabalan was sacred to the Druze, At the centre of the village stood a mosque. \n\nIn the 1922 census of Palestine \"Sabalan\" had a population of 68; all Muslim, increasing in the 1931 census, to 94 Muslims, in 18 houses.\n\nBy the 1945 statistics the population was 70 Muslims, with a total of 1,798 dunams of land, according to an official land and population survey. Of this, a total of 421 dunums were used for cereals; 144 dunums were irrigated or used for plantations, while a 14 dunams were built-up (urban) area.\nOn October 30, 1948, during the Israeli offensive Operation Hiram, Sabalan was captured. Units of Israel's Golani Brigade overran the village with support from the Sheva Brigade as they were advancing along the road leading from Suhmata and Sa'sa'. No Jewish localities were built on village lands, According to Palestinian historian, Walid Khalidi, \"Only one village house and a well remain.\" The remaining house is occupied by the Druze guards and caretakers of the Nabi Sabalan tomb and new buildings were constructed to accommodate pilgrims and visitors. In 1965, Druze youth activists led by Samih al-Qasim protested the confiscation of the lands surrounding the tomb by the Israeli government which declared them \"state lands.\" The Druze religious leadership established \"Eid al-Nabi Sabalan\" (\"Feast of the Prophet Sabalan\") in 1971.\n\nToday, the lands of the village, including the holy shrine, were annexed to the Druze town of Hurfeish. A neighborhood for released soldiers was built there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27562900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27562900", "title": "Sedo", "text": "Sedo\n\nSedo (an acronym for Search Engine for Domain Offers and stylised sedo) is a domain name and website marketplace and domain parking provider based in Cambridge, Massachusetts and Cologne, Germany. The company, which is a subsidiary of German-based United Internet, has more than 16 million domain names listed on its website for buying and selling.\n\nSedo was founded in 2000 by three German college students - Tim Schumacher (previous CEO of Sedo Holding AG), Marius Würzner (now COO of Sedo GmbH's German office), and Ulrich Priesner (currently CTO of Sedo) - and modeled after the core concept of Schumacher's Master's Thesis, \"Price Formation in the Trade of Internet Domain Names\". In February 2001, with 1&1 Internet AG's investment in the business through purchasing a 41% share, Sedo GmbH became an official entity in Cologne, Germany. During the first few months, the company was operated solely by Schumacher and Essmann while Priesner and Würzner finished their studies. Helga Schackenberg became the first employee of the company, followed soon thereafter by Würzner. At the end of the year, Essmann left the company for nearly two years to complete his medical residency. In the meantime, Sedo moved into a bigger office in Cologne in 2002, and Matt Bentley joined the company to serve in Essmann's absence to oversee Sedo's development. Sedo's funding prior to IPO was N.M. Rothschild Holdings .\n\nSedo began planning in 2003 to open a subsidiary office in the United States. During this planning phase, Essmann returned to the company with a desire to lead overseas. Bentley and Essmann headed to America, with Jeremiah Johnston joining the team shortly afterwards as General Counsel. In 2005, the Sedo office was opened in Cambridge, Massachusetts (USA), under Sedo.com, LLC.\n\nIn 2006, CEO Tim Schumacher temporarily joined the Cambridge office to assist with expansion into the US market, and the company introduced domain name auctions. In 2007, Sedo took a minority investment in DomainsBot; DomainsBot's technology later contributed to the update of Sedo's domain search tool. The company acquired GreatDomains.com, a competing online domain name marketplace, from VeriSign on June 19, 2007.\n\nExpansion continued in 2008 as Sedo opened up shop in the United Kingdom, an operation headed by Hugo Dalrymple-Smith and Nora Nanayakkara. On February 24, 2009, Sedo purchased RevenueDirect, and formed a strategic partnership with its parent company, Dotster of Vancouver, Washington, to take advantage of the latter's services of helping businesses establish online profiles. In March 2009, Sedo provided seed funding for the new start up Bloson.com, a social charity website. Later in September 2009, Sedo acquired a competing domain monetization (parking) site, ParkingPanel, for an undisclosed amount. On February 17, 2010, Sedo helped broker the purchase for the most expensive .org domain name ever—poker.org—for US$1 million. PokerCompany.com purchased the domain name. Later that year, Sedo was awarded a Guinness World Records record for the sale of sex.com, the most expensive public domain sale at $13,000,000.\n\nOn February 1, 2012, Tim Schumacher left his role as CEO of Sedo Holding AG to focus on other projects and join the company's Supervisory Board. Tobias Flaitz, formerly of the privately held German-based Hubert Burda Media, joined Sedo as the new CEO of both Sedo Holding AG (including Sedo's sister company, Affili.net) and Sedo.\n\nIn 2009, Sedo's sister company within the Adlink Group, AdLINK Media, was sold to the Hi-media Group. This sale led to the reorganization and renaming of the group to Sedo Holding AG in 2010. That same year, Sedo welcomed its sister company, Affilinet, to its Cologne office. Tim Schumacher was named CEO of Sedo Holding AG while retaining his leadership role within Sedo, and Liesbeth Mack-de Boer was named Chief Sales Officer (CSO) of Sedo.\n\nSedo reports the following domain sales as the 20 highest sales they have helped broker since their inception in 2001:\n\nBetter Business Bureau (A+ Rating)\n\nTRUSTe EU Safe Harbor & Web Privacy Seals\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6598391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6598391", "title": "Shell Guides", "text": "Shell Guides\n\nThe Shell Guides were originally a 20th-century series of guidebooks on the counties of Britain. They were aimed at a new breed of car-driving metropolitan tourist, and for those who sought guides that were neither too serious nor too shallow and who took pleasure in the ordinary and peculiar culture of small town Britain. In the three decades after the Second World War the Shell Guides provided a surreptitiously subversive synthesis of the British countryside.\n\nThe series started in June 1934, with Betjeman's \"Cornwall\", and continued until 1984, by which time about half the country had been covered. The series was sponsored by the oil company Shell. The original guides were published on a county-by-county basis, under the editorial control of the poet John Betjeman and (later) the artist John Piper. There were three publishers involved in the publication of the 13 pre-war titles: The Architectural Press, Batsford and finally, in 1939, Faber and Faber. In 1939 all the previous twelve titles were re-issued and one new one in the same format: David Verey's Gloucestershire. The next one planned was Shropshire to be co-written by Betjeman and Piper. However the Second World War intervened. Only one non-English area was covered: The West Coast of Scotland by Stephen Bone, arguably the most political of all the Shell Guides. Post-war however every bit of Wales was covered in five different titles. It was not until 1951 that the next Shell Guide was produced. Jack Beddington's involvement in the Shell Guides and Shell advertising in general cannot be underestimated and it is because of him, that from the outset, artists were invited to produce Shell Guides; John and Paul Nash for instance and of course John Piper.\n\nDuring the early 1960s a series of 48 cheaper \"Shilling Guides\" appeared, much to Betjeman's annoyance, especially as they sold in greater numbers. Published by the Shell-Mex and BP joint venture, each had just 20 pages with a full colour card cover, representing highlights of the county covered, and included a two colour map of the area, preceded by an essay on the history and landscape, and followed by a short gazetteer of main towns and tourist attractions. The original artwork for this series was sold by Shell in 2002 at an auction held by Sotheby's. These images by such artists as Keith Shackleton and David Gentleman also featured in the (now collectable ) Shell Posters that were published for use in schools. These appeared between 1959 and 1965.\n\nFrom the late 1950s to the early 1970s, a series of general titles under the \"Shell Guide\" banner were produced, covering most of the countries in northwest Europe. Guides to subjects such as rivers, islands, viewpoints, archaeology, gardens, flowers, history, wildlife and museums were also published.\n\nIn 1987, Shell issued a final series of \"New Shell Guides\", published by Michael Joseph and generally covering rather larger areas (e.g. Northern Scotland and the Islands) than in the earlier series. Whilst the original Shell County Guides are now highly collectible, the later titles (published by Faber & Faber, Ebury Press or Michael Joseph) tend to be shunned by collectors and book dealers alike, as supply exceeds demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4536496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4536496", "title": "TSIG", "text": "TSIG\n\nTSIG (Transaction SIGnature) is a computer-networking protocol defined\nin RFC 2845. Primarily it enables the Domain Name System (DNS) to authenticate updates to a DNS database. It was most commonly used to update Dynamic DNS or a secondary/slave DNS server. TSIG uses shared secret keys and one-way hashing to provide a cryptographically secure means of authenticating each endpoint of a connection as being allowed to make or respond to a DNS update.\n\nAlthough queries to DNS may usually be made without authentication, updates to DNS must be authenticated, since they make lasting changes to the structure of the Internet naming system. As the update request may arrive via an insecure channel (the Internet), one must take measures to ensure the authenticity and integrity of the request. The use of a key shared by the client making the update and the DNS server helps to ensure the authenticity and integrity of the update request. A one-way hashing function serves to prevent malicious observers from modifying the update and forwarding on to the destination, thus ensuring integrity of the message from source to destination.\n\nA timestamp is included in the TSIG protocol to prevent recorded responses from being reused, which would allow an attacker to breach the security of TSIG. This places a requirement on dynamic DNS servers and TSIG clients to contain an accurate clock. Since DNS servers are connected to a network, the Network Time Protocol can provide an accurate time source.\n\nDNS updates, like queries, are normally transported via UDP since it requires lower overhead than TCP. However, DNS servers support both UDP and TCP requests.\n\nAn update, as specified in RFC 2136, is a set of instructions to a DNS server. These include a header, the zone to be updated, the prerequisites that must be satisfied, and the record(s) to be updated. TSIG adds a final record, which includes a timestamp and the hash of the request. It also includes the name of the secret key that was used to sign the request. RFC 2535 has recommendations on the form of the name.\n\nThe response to a successful TSIG update will also be signed with a TSIG record. Failures are not signed to prevent an attacker from learning anything about the TSIG key using specially crafted update \"probes\".\n\nThe nsupdate program can use TSIG to do DNS updates.\n\nThe TSIG record is in the same format as the other records in the update request. The meaning of the fields is described in RFC 1035.\n\nAlthough TSIG is widely deployed, there are several problems with the protocol:\n\n\nAs a result, a number of alternatives and extensions have been proposed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1707086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707086", "title": "Tag (metadata)", "text": "Tag (metadata)\n\nIn information systems, a tag is a keyword or term assigned to a piece of information (such as an Internet bookmark, digital image, database record, or computer file). This kind of metadata helps describe an item and allows it to be found again by browsing or searching. Tags are generally chosen informally and personally by the item's creator or by its viewer, depending on the system, although they may also be chosen from a controlled vocabulary.\n\nTagging was popularized by websites associated with Web 2.0 and is an important feature of many Web 2.0 services. It is now also part of other database systems, desktop applications, and operating systems.\n\nPeople use tags to aid classification, mark ownership, note boundaries, and indicate online identity. Tags may take the form of words, images, or other identifying marks. An analogous example of tags in the physical world is museum object tagging. People were using textual keywords to classify information and objects long before computers. Computer based search algorithms made the use of such keywords a rapid way of exploring records.\n\nTagging gained popularity due to the growth of social bookmarking, image sharing, and social networking websites. These sites allow users to create and manage labels (or \"tags\") that categorize content using simple keywords. Websites that include tags often display collections of tags as tag clouds, as do some desktop applications. On websites that aggregate the tags of all users, an individual user's tags can be useful both to them and to the larger community of the website's users.\n\nTagging systems have sometimes been classified into two kinds: \"top-down\" and \"bottom-up\". Top-down taxonomies are created by an authorized group of designers (sometimes in the form of a controlled vocabulary), whereas bottom-up taxonomies (called folksonomies) are created by all users. This definition of \"top down\" and \"bottom up\" should not be confused with the distinction between a \"single hierarchical\" tree structure (in which there is one correct way to classify each item) versus \"multiple non-hierarchical\" sets (in which there are multiple ways to classify an item); the structure of both top-down and bottom-up taxonomies may be either hierarchical, non-hierarchical, or a combination of both. Some researchers and applications have experimented with combining hierarchical and non-hierarchical tagging to aid in information retrieval. Others are combining top-down and bottom-up tagging, including in some large library catalogs (OPACs) such as WorldCat.\n\nWhen tags or other taxonomies have further properties (or semantics) such as relationships and attributes, they constitute an ontology.\n\nMetadata tags as described in this article should not be confused with the use of the word \"tag\" in some software to refer to an automatically generated cross-reference; examples of the latter are \"tags tables\" in Emacs and \"smart tags\" in Microsoft Office.\n\nThe use of keywords as part of an identification and classification system long predates computers. Paper data storage devices, notably edge-notched cards, that permitted classification and sorting by multiple criteria were already in use prior to the twentieth century, and faceted classification has been used by libraries since the 1930s.\n\nIn the late 1970s and early 1980s, the Unix text editor Emacs offered a companion software program called \"Tags\" that could automatically build a table of cross-references called a \"tags table\" that Emacs could use to jump between a function call and that function's definition. This use of the word \"tag\" did not refer to metadata tags, but was an early use of the word \"tag\" in software to refer to a word index.\n\nOnline databases and early websites deployed keyword tags as a way for publishers to help users find content. In the early days of the World Wide Web, the codice_1 meta element was used by web designers to tell web search engines what the web page was about, but these keywords were only visible in a web page's source code and were not modifiable by users.\n\nIn 2003, the social bookmarking website Delicious provided a way for its users to add \"tags\" to their bookmarks (as a way to help find them later); Delicious also provided browseable aggregated views of the bookmarks of all users featuring a particular tag. Within a couple of years, the photo sharing website Flickr allowed its users to add their own text tags to each of their pictures, constructing flexible and easy metadata that made the pictures highly searchable. The success of Flickr and the influence of Delicious popularized the concept, and other social software websites—such as YouTube, Technorati, and Last.fm—also implemented tagging. In 2005, the Atom web syndication standard provided a \"category\" element for inserting subject categories into web feeds, and in 2007 Tim Bray proposed a \"tag\" URN.\n\nMany blog systems (and other web content management systems) allow authors to add free-form tags to a post, along with (or instead of) placing the post into a predetermined category. For example, a post may display that it has been tagged with codice_2 and codice_3. Each of those tags is usually a web link leading to an index page listing all of the posts associated with that tag. The blog may have a sidebar listing all the tags in use on that blog, with each tag leading to an index page. To reclassify a post, an author edits its list of tags. All connections between posts are automatically tracked and updated by the blog software; there is no need to relocate the page within a complex hierarchy of categories.\n\nSome desktop applications and web applications feature their own tagging systems, such as email tagging in Gmail and Mozilla Thunderbird, bookmark tagging in Firefox, audio tagging in iTunes or Winamp, and photo tagging in various applications. Some of these applications display collections of tags as tag clouds.\n\nThere are various systems for applying tags to the files in a computer's file system. In Apple's macOS, the operating system has allowed users to assign multiple arbitrary tags as extended file attributes to any file or folder ever since OS X 10.9 was released in 2013, and before that time the open-source OpenMeta standard provided similar tagging functionality in macOS. Several semantic file systems that implement tags are available for the Linux kernel, including Tagsistant. Microsoft Windows allows users to set tags only on Microsoft Office documents and some kinds of picture files.\n\nCross-platform file tagging standards include Extensible Metadata Platform (XMP), an ISO standard for embedding metadata into popular image, video and document file formats, such as JPEG and PDF, without breaking their readability by applications that do not support XMP. XMP largely supersedes the earlier IPTC Information Interchange Model. Exif is a standard that specifies the image and audio file formats used by digital cameras, including some metadata tags. TagSpaces is an open-source cross-platform application for tagging files; it inserts tags into the filename.\n\nAn \"official tag\" is a keyword adopted by events and conferences for participants to use in their web publications, such as blog entries, photos of the event, and presentation slides. Search engines can then index them to make relevant materials related to the event searchable in a uniform way. In this case, the tag is part of a controlled vocabulary.\n\nA researcher may work with a large collection of items (e.g. press quotes, a bibliography, images) in digital form. If he/she wishes to associate each with a small number of themes (e.g. to chapters of a book, or to sub-themes of the overall subject), then a group of tags for these themes can be attached to each of the items in the larger collection. In this way, freeform classification allows the author to manage what would otherwise be unwieldy amounts of information.\n\nA triple tag or machine tag uses a special syntax to define extra semantic information about the tag, making it easier or more meaningful for interpretation by a computer program. Triple tags comprise three parts: a namespace, a predicate, and a value. For example, codice_4 is a tag for the geographical longitude coordinate whose value is 50.123456. This triple structure is similar to the Resource Description Framework model for information.\n\nThe triple tag format was first devised for geolicious in November 2004, to map Delicious bookmarks, and gained wider acceptance after its adoption by Mappr and GeoBloggers to map Flickr photos. In January 2007, Aaron Straup Cope at Flickr introduced the term \"machine tag\" as an alternative name for the triple tag, adding some questions and answers on purpose, syntax, and use.\n\nSpecialized metadata for geographical identification is known as \"geotagging\"; machine tags are also used for other purposes, such as identifying photos taken at a specific event or naming species using binomial nomenclature.\n\nA hashtag is a kind of metadata tag marked by the prefix codice_5, sometimes known as a \"hash\" symbol. This form of tagging is used on microblogging and social networking services such as Twitter, Facebook, Google+, VK and Instagram.\n\nA knowledge tag is a type of meta-information that describes or defines some aspect of a piece of information (such as a document, digital image, database table, or web page). Knowledge tags are more than traditional non-hierarchical keywords or terms; they are a type of metadata that captures knowledge in the form of descriptions, categorizations, classifications, semantics, comments, notes, annotations, hyperdata, hyperlinks, or references that are collected in tag profiles (a kind of ontology). These tag profiles reference an information resource that resides in a distributed, and often heterogeneous, storage repository.\n\nKnowledge tags are part of a knowledge management discipline that leverages Enterprise 2.0 methodologies for users to capture insights, expertise, attributes, dependencies, or relationships associated with a data resource. Different kinds of knowledge can be captured in knowledge tags, including factual knowledge (that found in books and data), conceptual knowledge (found in perspectives and concepts), expectational knowledge (needed to make judgments and hypothesis), and methodological knowledge (derived from reasoning and strategies). These forms of knowledge often exist outside the data itself and are derived from personal experience, insight, or expertise. Knowledge tags are considered an expansion of the information itself that adds additional value, context, and meaning to the information. Knowledge tags are valuable for preserving organizational intelligence that is often lost due to turnover, for sharing knowledge stored in the minds of individuals that is typically isolated and unharnessed by the organization, and for connecting knowledge that is often lost or disconnected from an information resource.\n\nIn a typical tagging system, there is no explicit information about the meaning or semantics of each tag, and a user can apply new tags to an item as easily as applying older tags. Hierarchical classification systems can be slow to change, and are rooted in the culture and era that created them; in contrast, the flexibility of tagging allows users to classify their collections of items in the ways that they find useful, but the personalized variety of terms can present challenges when searching and browsing.\n\nWhen users can freely choose tags (creating a folksonomy, as opposed to selecting terms from a controlled vocabulary), the resulting metadata can include homonyms (the same tags used with different meanings) and synonyms (multiple tags for the same concept), which may lead to inappropriate connections between items and inefficient searches for information about a subject. For example, the tag \"orange\" may refer to the fruit or the color, and items related to a version of the Linux kernel may be tagged \"Linux\", \"kernel\", \"Penguin\", \"software\", or a variety of other terms. Users can also choose tags that are different inflections of words (such as singular and plural), which can contribute to navigation difficulties if the system does not include stemming of tags when searching or browsing. Larger-scale folksonomies address some of the problems of tagging, in that users of tagging systems tend to notice the current use of \"tag terms\" within these systems, and thus use existing tags in order to easily form connections to related items. In this way, folksonomies may collectively develop a partial set of tagging conventions.\n\nDespite the apparent lack of control, research has shown that a simple form of shared vocabulary emerges in social bookmarking systems. Collaborative tagging exhibits a form of complex systems dynamics (or self-organizing dynamics). Thus, even if no central controlled vocabulary constrains the actions of individual users, the distribution of tags converges over time to stable power law distributions. Once such stable distributions form, simple folksonomic vocabularies can be extracted by examining the correlations that form between different tags. In addition, research has suggested that it is easier for machine learning algorithms to learn tag semantics when users tag \"verbosely\"—when they annotate resources with a wealth of freely associated, descriptive keywords.\n\nTagging systems open to the public are also open to tag spam, in which people apply an excessive number of tags or unrelated tags to an item (such as a YouTube video) in order to attract viewers. This abuse can be mitigated using human or statistical identification of spam items. The number of tags allowed may also be limited to reduce spam.\n\nSome tagging systems provide a single text box to enter tags, so to be able to tokenize the string, a must be used. Two popular separators are the space character and the comma. To enable the use of separators in the tags, a system may allow for higher-level separators (such as quotation marks) or escape characters. Systems can avoid the use of separators by allowing only one tag to be added to each input widget at a time, although this makes adding multiple tags more time-consuming.\n\nA syntax for use within HTML is to use the rel-tag microformat which uses the \"rel\" attribute with value \"tag\" (i.e., codice_6) to indicate that the linked-to page acts as a tag for the current context.\n"}
{"id": "1437728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1437728", "title": "Theonomy", "text": "Theonomy\n\nTheonomy, from \"theos\" (god) and \"nomos\" (law), is a hypothetical Christian form of government in which society is ruled by divine law. Theonomists hold that divine law, including the judicial laws of the Old Testament, should be observed by modern societies.\n\nThis idea is not to be confused with the idea of \"theonomous ethics\" proposed by Paul Tillich.\n\nThomas Aquinas, with regard to the Christian view of the Old Covenant, held that \"if a sovereign were to order these judicial precepts to be observed in his kingdom, he would not sin.\" Although Aquinas believed the specifics of the Old Testament judicial laws were no longer binding, he taught that the judicial precepts contained universal principles of justice that reflected natural law, a view on government known as \"General Equity Theonomy\".\n\nIn the later terminology of Christian Reconstructionism, theonomy is the idea that, in the Bible, God provides the basis of both personal and social ethics. In that context, the term is always used in antithesis to autonomy, which is the idea that the Self provides the basis of ethics. Theonomic ethics asserts that the Bible has been given as the abiding standard for all human government – individual, family, church, and civil – and that Biblical Law must be incorporated into a Christian theory of Biblical ethics.\n\nSome critics see theonomy as a significant form of Dominion theology, which they define as a type of theocracy. Theonomy posits that the Biblical Law is applicable to civil law, and theonomists propose Biblical law as the standard by which the laws of nations may be measured, and to which they ought to be conformed.\n\nVarious theonomic authors have stated such goals as \"the universal development of Biblical theocratic republics\", exclusion of non-Christians from voting and citizenship, and the application of Biblical law by the state. Under such a system of Biblical law, homosexual acts, adultery, witchcraft, and blasphemy would be punishable by death. Propagation of idolatry or \"false religions\" would be illegal and could also be punished by the death penalty. More recent theonomic writers such as Joel McDurmon, President of American Vision, have moved away from this position, stating that these death penalties are no longer binding in the new covenant. Polemicist and theonomy critic, JD Hall, who debated McDurmon in 2015, has argued that abandoning Mosaic penologies such as the death penalty means that McDurmon and others who hold similar positions cannot be said to hold to theonomy in any meaningful way.\n\nAccording to theonomist Greg Bahnsen, the laws of God are the standard which Christian voters and officials ought to pursue. Civil officials are also not constrained to literally enforce every Biblical law, such as one-time localized imperatives, certain administrative details, typological foreshadows, or those against envy and unbelief. \"Rulers should enforce only those laws for which God revealed social sanctions to be imposed\".\n\nSome in the modern Reformed churches are critical of any relationship between the historical Reformed faith and theonomy, while other Calvinists affirm that Theonomy is consistent with historic Reformed confessions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980087", "title": "Vleeshal", "text": "Vleeshal\n\nThe Vleeshal is a historical building dating from 1603 on the Grote Markt in Haarlem, the Netherlands.\n\n\"Vleeshal\" means meat-hall; it was the only place in Haarlem where fresh meat was allowed to be sold from 1604 to the 18th century. The ox-heads on the front of the building indicate the function of the hall. The building was used for selling fresh meat, salted meat was sold in the Warmoesstraat, the street next to the building.\n\nIt was designed in renaissance style by Lieven de Key. It was built from 1602 to 1603. Before that there was already a small Vleeshal on the crossing of the Spekstraat and the Warmoesstraat, but around 1600 it had become too small, and the meat had to be sold outside. The new building was a prestigious project; expensive materials and a beautiful design were used. It opened on November 1, 1604. There was room for 40 different meat merchants in the building.\n\nThe building has been in use as meat-hall until 1840. Afterwards it was used by the National Archive (\"Rijksarchief\") and the Haarlem public library.\n\nSince 1950 the building is in use as a gallery by the Frans Hals Museum, which holds art exhibitions there under the name \"Museum De Hallen\". The entrance to that museum is through the house directly to the right of the building. The cellar of the Vleeshal is used by the Archeologisch Museum Haarlem, which has a permanent exhibition on various aspects of the archeology of Haarlem, as well as a modest exhibition area for new finds. The entrance to that museum is through the small door on the left leading down into the cellar.\n\nThe West End Collegiate Church on West End Avenue in Manhattan, New Amsterdam is modeled after the Vleeshal.\n"}
{"id": "3341967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3341967", "title": "Wisconsin Blue Book", "text": "Wisconsin Blue Book\n\nThe Wisconsin Blue Book is a biennial publication of the Wisconsin's Legislative Reference Bureau. The \"Blue Book\" is an almanac containing information on the government, economics, demographics, geography and history of the state of Wisconsin. It was published annually from 1879-1883, and then biennially since 1885 to the present day. It is currently published in the fall of every odd-numbered year, corresponding to the start of each new biennium of the Wisconsin state government. Since 1995, the \"Blue Book\" has been available free in electronic form.\n\nMany editions also provide a special article of substantial length, focusing on either a natural feature or some social aspect about the state. \n\nHardcover editions of the book may be obtained for no cost by Wisconsin residents by contacting their State Representative or State Senator. It can also be ordered from the Wisconsin Department of Administration's \"Document Sales and Distribution Unit\".\n\n"}
