{"id": "45912916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45912916", "title": "27th National Geographic Bee", "text": "27th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 27th National Geographic Bee was held on May 11–13, 2015 in Washington, District of Columbia. It is sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The winner was Karan Menon of John Adams Middle School in Edison, New Jersey, who won $50,000 in scholarships, a trip for 2 to the Galapagos Islands, and a lifetime membership to the National Geographic Society. The runner-up was Shriya Yarlagadda of Grand Blanc East Middle School in Grand Blanc, Michigan who won a $25,000 scholarship. The Third place winner was Sojas Wagle of Springdale, Arkansas, who won $10,000 in scholarships. Finishing in 4th place was Tejas Badgujar of Pennsylvania. The competition started with the school level rounds, in which more than 5 million students competed in 11,000 schools across the nation. Other students who placed in the top ten include Kapil Nathan of Alabama, Nicholas Monahan of Idaho, Patrick Taylor of Iowa, Abhinav Karthikeyan of Maryland, Lucy Chae of Massachusetts, and Shreyas Varathan of Minnesota. The Florida State Champion, Rishi Nair, became the 2016 National Geographic Bee Champion. The winners of the school bees then took a written qualification test to see who could qualify for the state level competition. The top 100 or so scorers on the qualification test in each state were selected to go for the state championship. The winners of the state championship would then get $100 in cash, a National Geographic 10th Edition Atlas, and the opportunity to represent their state in the National Finals held in Washington, DC.\n\nThe state representatives from each of the 50 U.S. states, Atlantic territories, Pacific territories, and Department of Defense dependents schools was determined on March 27, 2015 at the state level competitions.\n\nThe 10 Finalists in this year's Final round were Nicholas Monahan from Idaho, Karan Menon from New Jersey, Sojas Wagle from Arkansas, Abhinav Karthikeyan from Maryland, Patrick Taylor from Iowa, Lucy Chae from Massachusetts, Shreyas Varathan from Minnesota, Kapil Nathan from Alabama, Shreyas Varathan from Minnesota, Shriya Yarlagadda from Michigan, and Tejas Badgujar from Pennsylvania. This years finals had many new changes including a 45-second oral response, a series of 3 questions asked at the US Botanical Gardens, and lightning rounds, where a finalist would get 3 questions in a row, with only 6 seconds to answer each. In one of these rounds, Karan, the state champion of New Jersey was asked \"The Mesabi range contains a large deposit of what metal-bearing mineral?\" Karan's answer of taconite was originally marked wrong (the given answer was iron ore), but later he would object and prove to the judges that his answer was correct. Shriya Yarlagadda, from Michigan maintained a perfect score throughout most of the competition. In the end, the top 2 students were Karan of New Jersey and Shriya of Michigan. Karan got a perfect score of 7/7 in the championship round, while Shriya only missed the first question. \"Mariupol, a city located at the mouth of the Kalmius River, is located on what sea that is an arm of the Black Sea?\" Answer: \"Sea of Azov.\" The final question that clinched the win for Karan was \"If completed, the proposed Grand Inga Dam would become the world’s largest hydropower plant. This dam would be built near Inga Falls on which African river?\" Answer: \"Congo River.\" The Third place winner was Sojas Wagle of Springdale, Arkansas, who won $10,000 in scholarships. Finishing in 4th place was Tejas Badgujar of Allison Park, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "18286725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18286725", "title": "7th parallel south", "text": "7th parallel south\n\nThe 7th parallel south is a circle of latitude that is 7 degrees south of the Earth's equatorial plane. It crosses the Atlantic Ocean, Africa, the Indian Ocean, Southeast Asia, Australasia, the Pacific Ocean and South America.\n\nPart of the border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Angola is defined by the parallel.\n\nStarting at the Prime Meridian and heading eastwards, the parallel 7° south passes through:\n\n"}
{"id": "8976920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8976920", "title": "A345 road", "text": "A345 road\n\nThe A345 is a secondary A road in Wiltshire, England running from Salisbury to Marlborough and the A4. The road is a main south-north link across Salisbury Plain, which is renowned for its rich archaeology, and passes many ancient points of interest along its way.\n\nThe road begins in Salisbury at the Castle roundabout and travels north out of the city, passing close to Old Sarum castle, taking a predominantly straight line to Boscombe Down and then Amesbury before meeting the A303 at Countess roundabout where it shares Countess Services with the major road. At this point it passes within of the World Heritage Site at Stonehenge. Continuing north, the road passes near to Woodhenge and the Ministry of Defence Royal School of Artillery base at Larkhill. This part of the route can be hazardous as there are often tanks crossing and the road is susceptible to subsidence. The next significant places are Netheravon, and then Upavon where the road briefly separates into a one-way system around the village, running concurrently with the A342 to Devizes. From here the A345 goes to Pewsey, where the Pewsey White Horse is best viewed, and then continues on to Marlborough, ending at a roundabout leading to the High Street which is the A4 road.\n\nOriginally the A345 extended north from Marlborough to a junction with the A419 at Commonhead, south east of Swindon. From there it went through Swindon to meet the A419 again at Blunsdon.\n\nWhen the M4 motorway was opened, the section from Marlborough to the motorway junction 15 became a northern extension of the A346. From the motorway to Commonhead, the road became part of the A419, and the route through Swindon was renumbered A4259 and A4311.\n\nBetween Amesbury and Durrington a section of the A345 was realigned further east away from the Woodhenge scheduled monument in 1968, crossing to a further west alignment and incorporating a new roundabout at its junction with the A3028. \n\nThe southern terminus was originally further south along Castle Street at Salisbury market square, but with the opening of the Salisbury Inner Ring Road in 1969 the southern section was declassified.\n\n"}
{"id": "44743736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44743736", "title": "Achziv Islands", "text": "Achziv Islands\n\nAchziv Islands (also Achziv Beach Islands) are a group of small Israel islands in the Mediterranean Sea. Each island is a few hundred square meters in area, with a reef is composed of small limestone blocks. \n\nThe Achziv islands - Nahlieli, Shahaf and Achziv - are located west of the Akhziv shore. They are actually the tops of a sunken sandstone ridge. Seagulls and terns nest on Nahlieli. The islands are part of the Rosh Hanikra Islands Nature Reserve. \n"}
{"id": "7336930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7336930", "title": "Anjajavy Forest", "text": "Anjajavy Forest\n\nAnjajavy Forest is an element of the Madagascar dry deciduous forests situated on the Indian Ocean of northwest Madagascar. The Anjajavy Forest surrounds the village of Anjajavy and provides a habitat for many rare and endangered species. It covers roughly fifty square kilometres, and occupies a continuous portion of the peninsula upon which Anjajavy village lies. The peninsula is bounded by Majajamba Bay to the south and Narinda Bay to the north. Anjajavy Forest has much in common with other dry deciduous forests rising out of the tsingy limestone formations of western Madagascar. It is due to the presence of expansive tsingy outcrops as well as the remoteness of this part of Madagascar from the population center of the country at Antananarivo that the forest here has been less disturbed than many other forests in the country. For example, the central highland plateau, readily accessible from the population center, has been decimated by decades of slash-and-burn farming by indigenous peoples, leading to massive desertification and erosion. The incidence of species endemism in the western dry forests is very high, including ten of the fourteen known lemur genera, five of the eight tenrec genera and 16 of the 17 Chiroptera genera of Madagascar represented. There are a variety of mammals, birds, reptiles and arthropods present within the Anjajavy Forest.\nLike most of Madagascar's dry deciduous forests, the upper canopy is composed of trees which shed their leaves in the winter months (May through September), including at least two species of baobabs endemic to the western part of the island. Trees here have adapted to the warm arid climate by shedding leaves in the dry season to reduce evapotranspiration, and some species such as the baobab store large amounts of water in their bulbous trunks.\n\nThere is a very high rate of species endemicity in all the western dry deciduous forests of Madagascar, for both flora and fauna; this rate is thought to be higher than for the eastern rainforests, although the biodiversity, while extremely high, is slightly less than the eastern counterparts. Geologically the tsingy formations have numerous subterranean caverns (used by early tribesmen) and karst formations, which provide underground water storage.\n\nThe forest canopy contains numerous species of deciduous trees, including at least two species of baobab, \"Adansonia rubrostipa\" and \"Adansonia madagascariensis\". In addition, trees such as \"Grewia ciclea\" (Malagasy name, andilambarika) and \"Terminalia catappa\" (Malagasy name: antafana) occur. The latter tree provides a favourite food supply to the Coquerel's lemur, with both fruits and leaves being appealing.\n\nSome of the common shrubs found in the Anjajavy forest are \"Vepris ampody\" (Malagasy name: ampoly) and \"Rhizorphora mucronata\" (Malagasy name: honkovavy). There are also abundant lianas (vines) as well as numerous herbs, including the Madagascar vanilla (\"Vanilla madagascariensis\", whose Malagasy name is vahimatso).\n\nThe dry forest verges on mangrove swamps in the vicinity of several coastal estuaries at the western verge of the Anjajavy Forest, where small streams discharge into the Indian Ocean.\n\nLemurs are a noted species in the Anjajavy Forest, since they are abundant in the trees and even sometimes on the forest floor . The most frequently seen diurnal species are Coquerel's sifaka and the common brown lemur both of which are completely wild but show no fear of humans and can be approached very closely in the Anjajavy le Lodge gardens. Other, nocturnal lemurs of the Anjajavy Forest include three species of mouse lemur (\"Microcebus\" spp.), one species of sportive lemur (\"Lepilemur\" sp.) and the fat-tailed dwarf lemur (Cheirogaleus medius). Since none of these nocturnal lemur populations have been researched by specialists, it is possible that some may represent new, undescribed species.\n\nLemurs of the Anjajavy Forest are: \n\nThe tsingy caves provide special habitat for the bats of this region, offering cool shelter. Probably the most common member of the chiroptera family locally is the Commerson's leaf-nosed bat (\"Hipposideros commersoni\"). The cave explorers will also sight Tiavato bats (\"Paremballonura tiavato\") in flight and some hanging from the ceiling on stalactite formations of the limestone cave interiors. A cruise on the mangrove before sunset often shows skies with many Madagascar flying foxes (\"Pteropus rufus\"). \n\nAlso seen in the Anjajavy Forest area is the endangered Fossa (\"Cryptoprocta ferox\"), the largest mammalian carnivore in Madagascar. Other nocturnal mammals occur in the forest here, like two species of tenrecs: greater hedgehog (\"Setifer setosus\") and (\"Tenrec ecaudatusalso\") and the elusive Malagasy civet (\"Fossa fossana\").\n\nThere is abundandant birdlife present in the Anjajavy Forest. One of the most emblematic is the Madagascar fish eagle, which has four breeding pairs in the Anjajavy Forest according to Garbutt and Hogan. This very large bird of prey is endemic to western Madagascar, and the species is critically endangered, with an estimated 99 breeding pairs estimated in total existence.\n\nAccording to Anjajavy le Lodge continuous nature inventory bird species frequenting the Anjajavy Forest are:\n\nAfter the dry season from May to October it is easy to see an assortment of chameleons, lizards and snakes in the Anjajavy Forest.\n\nAmong the snakes (that are not dangerous) are :\n\nChameleon species present include: \n\n"}
{"id": "342763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342763", "title": "Bavarian Geographer", "text": "Bavarian Geographer\n\nThe epithet \"Bavarian Geographer\" () is the conventional name for the anonymous author of a Latin medieval text containing a list of the tribes in central-eastern Europe, headed ().\n\nThe name \"Bavarian Geographer\" was first bestowed (in its French form, \"\") in 1796 by Polish count and scholar Jan Potocki. The term is now also used at times to refer to the document itself.\n\nThe short document, written in Latin, was discovered in 1772 in the Bavarian State Library, Munich by Louis XV's ambassador to the Saxon court, Comte Louis-Gabriel Du Buat-Nançay. It had been acquired by the Wittelsbachs with the collection of the antiquarian Hermann Schädel (1410–85) in 1571. The document was much discussed in the early 19th-century historiography, notably by Nikolai Karamzin and Joachim Lelewel.\n\nThe document contains a list of the tribes in Central-Eastern Europe east of the Elbe and north of the Danube to the Volga rivers to the Black and Caspian Sea (most of them of Slavonic origin, with \"Ruzzi\", and others such as \"Vulgarii\", etc.). Absent on the list are Polans, Pomeranians and Masovians, tribes first of whom are believed to have settled along the shores of the Warta river during the 8th century, as well Dulebes, Volhynians and White Croats, but instead mentioning several unknown tribes hard to identify.\n\nThere is also some information about the number of strongholds () possessed by some of the tribes. Henryk Łowmiański demonstrated that the list consists of two parts, which may be datable to different periods and attributed to distinct authors.\n\nThe provenance of the document is disputed. Although early commentators suggested that it could have been compiled in Regensburg, the list seems to have been taken from , recorded in the 9th century in the library of the Reichenau Abbey and named after a local librarian. Based on these findings, Bernhard Bischoff attributes it to a monk active at Reichenau from the 830s to 850s. Aleksandr Nazarenko finds it more probable that the list was composed in the 870s, when Saint Methodius is believed to have resided at Reichenau. The document may have been connected with his missions in the Slavic lands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37221503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37221503", "title": "Bridalveil Falls (Michigan)", "text": "Bridalveil Falls (Michigan)\n\nBridalveil Falls is a seasonal waterfall located at Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore, Michigan. Directions: From H-58 from Munising go east to Miners Castle Road, then to the Castle. You can see this from afar from here. You can also see it from the Lake in a boat, or hiking on the Lakeshore Trail (Although only partial views from a distance can be seen from the trail itself. A dangerous view of the crest can be seen after a short hike from the trail.)\n"}
{"id": "25181440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25181440", "title": "British Square (Zagreb)", "text": "British Square (Zagreb)\n\nBritanski trg (British Square) is a public square in the city of Zagreb, Croatia. It is one of the few remaining squares to include an open-air farmers' marketplace with fresh fruit, vegetables and other foods brought directly from farms, and is a revered urban area among the population of Zagreb. Britanski trg is located along Ilica Street, a few blocks west from the main city square, Ban Jelačić Square. It is also a transport hub—it is an endpoint for several bus lines, while the city tram lines 1, 6 and 11 stop on its south side. The square itself is convenient for access to several elite upscale neighborhoods of Zagreb, such as Pantovčak and Zelengaj. The open air market is held daily from early morning until about noon, and an antiques fair is held at the square each Sunday.\n"}
{"id": "3729425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3729425", "title": "Bulgarian placename etymology", "text": "Bulgarian placename etymology\n\nBulgarian placename etymology is characterized by the linguistic and ethnic diversity of the Balkans through the ages and the position of the country in the centre of the region. While typical Bulgarian placenames of Slavic origin vastly dominate, toponyms which stem from Iranian, Turkic, Arabic, Hebrew, Celtic, Gothic, Greek, Thracian and Latin can also be encountered.\n\nSlavic names account for the vast majority of toponyms on the territory of Bulgaria. Typical forms are:\n\n\n\n\nSlavic names often appear in pairs, wherever two places were historically related, or happen to have the same name. Examples: Stara Zagora and Nova Zagora (old/new), Veliko Tarnovo and Malko Tarnovo (great/small), Gorni Bogrov and Dolni Bogrov (upper/lower).\n\n\"Nov\", \"novi\", \"nova\", and \"novo\" (meaning \"new\") are also frequent, as many places were depopulated during Ottoman rule and later rebuilt. Examples: Novo Selo (9 villages are named thus), Novi Pazar. Nevertheless, the presence of \"new\" does not guarantee that the settlement has ever been destroyed — it may have been founded by settlers from another village who wished to retain the name, for example.\n\nBulgaria was part of the Ottoman Empire for 500 years, and Turkish placenames were widespread in southern and northeastern Bulgaria. However, most of them were changed in the 20th century. Examples: Kardzhali (\"Kırca Ali\", partially Arabic through Hebrew), Kazanlak (\"Kazanlık\"), Pazardzhik (\"Pazarcık\"), Kyustendil (\"Köstendil\"), Buzludzha (\"Buzluca\"). Hisarya, Harmanli (\"Harmanlı\"), Dolni Chiflik (\"Aşağı Çiftlik\"), Dzhebel (\"Cebel\").\n\nThere is a certain number of Greek names, mostly in southern Bulgaria along the Bulgarian Black Sea Coast, which stem from ancient poleis and towns. Examples: Ahtopol, Sozopol, Nikopol, Nesebar (a Slavicized version of the Hellenized Thracian name \"Menebria\", later \"Messembria\"), Provadiya.\n\nAn amount of names from Roman times has also survived until today, many of them being Roman versions of former Greek or Thracian ones. Some Latin names had fallen into disuse long ago, but were revived in the 20th century. Examples: Montana, Lom (a Slavicized version of Latin \"Almus\"), Archar (a Slavicized version of Latin \"Raciaria\"), Drastar (nowadays Silistra), derived from \"Durostorum\", Nikopol and Nikyup, derived from \"Nicopolis\", Dzherman, derived from \"Germania\", etc. The old Bulgarian name for Sofia, \"Sredets\", was also derived from \"Sardica\" (\"Serdica\").\n\nSome names of Romance origin date to later times and are ascribed to the Balkan Latin (Vlach) population, several examples being Vakarel, Pasarel, Banishor, Gurgulyat.\n\nThere are a number of ancient placenames from other languages, including Thracian or Dacian, such as Plovdiv, derived from \"Pulpudeva\" (itself derived from \"Philipoppolis\"), German and Celtic, such as Vidin from \"Dunonia\" and \"Bononia\".\n\nThe placename Varna of the non-metathesized group CorC bears witness of Old Bulgarian's preliterate period - or perhaps stemming from a more ancient Proto-Indo-European root.\n\n"}
{"id": "5635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5635", "title": "Christopher Columbus", "text": "Christopher Columbus\n\nChristopher Columbus (; before 31 October 145120 May 1506) was an Italian explorer, navigator, and colonist who completed four voyages across the Atlantic Ocean under the auspices of the Catholic Monarchs of Spain. He led the first European expeditions to the Caribbean, Central America, and South America, initiating the permanent European colonization of the Americas. Columbus discovered the viable sailing route to the Americas, a continent which was not then known to the Old World. While what he thought he had discovered was a route to the Far East, he is credited with the opening of the Americas for conquest and settlement by Europeans.\n\nColumbus's early life is somewhat obscure, but scholars generally agree that he was born in the Republic of Genoa and spoke a dialect of Ligurian as his first language. He went to sea at a young age and travelled widely, as far north as the British Isles (and possibly Iceland) and as far south as what is now Ghana. He married a Portuguese woman and was based in Lisbon for several years, but later took a Spanish mistress; he had one son with each woman. Though largely self-educated, Columbus was widely read in geography, astronomy, and history. He formulated a plan to seek a western sea passage to the East Indies, hoping to profit from the lucrative spice trade.\n\nAfter years of lobbying, the Catholic Monarchs of Spain agreed to sponsor a journey west, in the name of the Crown of Castile. Columbus left Spain in August 1492 with three ships, and after a stopover in the Canary Islands made landfall in the Americas on 12 October (now celebrated as Columbus Day). His landing place was an island in the Bahamas, known by its native inhabitants as Guanahani; its exact location is uncertain. Columbus subsequently visited Cuba and Hispaniola, establishing a colony in what is now Haiti—the first European settlement in the Americas since the Norse colonies almost 500 years earlier. He arrived back in Spain in early 1493, bringing a number of captive natives with him. Word of his discoveries soon spread throughout Europe.\n\nColumbus would make three further voyages to the New World, exploring the Lesser Antilles in 1493, Trinidad and the northern coast of South America in 1498, and the eastern coast of Central America in 1502. Many of the names he gave to geographical features—particularly islands—are still in use. He continued to seek a passage to the East Indies, and the extent to which he was aware that the Americas were a wholly separate landmass is uncertain; he gave the name \"indios\" (\"Indians\") to the indigenous peoples he encountered. Columbus's strained relationship with the Spanish crown and its appointed colonial administrators in America led to his arrest and removal from Hispaniola in 1500, and later to protracted litigation over the benefits that he and his heirs claimed were owed to them by the crown.\n\nColumbus's expeditions inaugurated a period of exploration, conquest, and colonization that lasted for centuries, helping create the modern Western world. The transfers between the Old World and New World that followed his first voyage are known as the Columbian exchange, and the period of human habitation in the Americas prior to his arrival is known as the Pre-Columbian era. Columbus's legacy continues to be debated. He was widely venerated in the centuries after his death, but public perceptions have changed as recent scholars have given attention to negative aspects of his life, such as his role in the extinction of the Taíno people, his promotion of slavery, and allegations of tyranny towards Spanish colonists. Many landmarks and institutions in the Western Hemisphere bear his name, including the country of Colombia.\n\nThe name \"Christopher Columbus\" is the Anglicisation of the Latin Christophorus Columbus. His name in Ligurian is Cristòffa Cómbo, in Italian Cristoforo Colombo and in Spanish Cristóbal Colón. He was born before 31 October 1451 in the territory of the Republic of Genoa (now part of modern Italy), though the exact location remains disputed. His father was Domenico Colombo, a middle-class wool weaver who worked both in Genoa and Savona and who also owned a cheese stand at which young Christopher worked as a helper. His mother was Susanna Fontanarossa. Bartolomeo, Giovanni Pellegrino, and Giacomo were his brothers. Bartolomeo worked in a cartography workshop in Lisbon for at least part of his adulthood. He also had a sister named Bianchinetta.\n\nColumbus never wrote in his native language, which is presumed to have been a Genoese variety of Ligurian (his name would translate in the 16th-century Genoese language as \"Christoffa\" \"Corombo\" ). In one of his writings, he says he went to sea at the age of 10. In 1470, the Columbus family moved to Savona, where Domenico took over a tavern. In the same year, Christopher was on a Genoese ship hired in the service of René of Anjou to support his attempt to conquer the Kingdom of Naples. Some modern historians have argued that he was not from Genoa but, instead, from the Aragon region of Spain or from Portugal. These competing hypotheses have generally been discounted by mainstream scholars.\n\nIn 1473, Columbus began his apprenticeship as business agent for the important Centurione, Di Negro and Spinola families of Genoa. Later, he allegedly made a trip to Chios, an Aegean island then ruled by Genoa. In May 1476, he took part in an armed convoy sent by Genoa to carry valuable cargo to northern Europe. He docked in Bristol, England and Galway, Ireland. In 1477, he was possibly in Iceland. In the autumn of 1477, he sailed on a Portuguese ship from Galway to Lisbon, where he found his brother Bartolomeo, and they continued trading for the Centurione family. Columbus based himself in Lisbon from 1477 to 1485. He married Filipa Moniz Perestrelo, daughter of the Porto Santo governor and Portuguese nobleman of Lombard origin Bartolomeu Perestrello.\n\nIn 1479 or 1480, his son Diego Columbus was born. Between 1482 and 1485, Columbus traded along the coasts of West Africa, reaching the Portuguese trading post of Elmina at the Guinea coast (in present-day Ghana). Some records report that Filipa died sometime around 1485, while Columbus was away in Castile. He returned to Portugal to settle her estate and take his son Diego with him. He had left Portugal for Castile in 1485, where he found a mistress in 1487, a 20-year-old orphan named Beatriz Enríquez de Arana. It is likely that Beatriz met Columbus when he was in Córdoba, a gathering site of many Genoese merchants and where the court of the Catholic monarchs was located at intervals. Beatriz, unmarried at the time, gave birth to Columbus's natural son Fernando Columbus in July 1488, named for the monarch of Aragón. Columbus recognized the boy as his offspring. Columbus entrusted his older, legitimate son Diego to take care of Beatriz and pay the pension set aside for her following his death, but Diego was negligent in his duties.\n\nAmbitious, Columbus eventually learned Latin, Portuguese, and Castilian. He read widely about astronomy, geography, and history, including the works of Claudius Ptolemy, Cardinal Pierre d'Ailly's \"Imago Mundi\", the travels of Marco Polo and Sir John Mandeville, Pliny's \"Natural History\", and Pope Pius II's \"Historia Rerum Ubique Gestarum\". According to historian Edmund Morgan,\n\nThroughout his life, Columbus also showed a keen interest in the Bible and in Biblical prophecies, often quoting biblical texts in his letters and logs. For example, part of the argument that he submitted to the Spanish Catholic Monarchs when he sought their support for his proposed expedition to reach the Indies by sailing west was based on his reading of the Second Book of Esdras (Ezra): see , which he took to mean that the Earth is made of six parts of land to one of water. Towards the end of his life, he produced a \"Book of Prophecies\" in which his career as an explorer is interpreted in the light of Christian eschatology and of apocalypticism.\n\nUnder the Mongol Empire's hegemony over Asia (the \"Pax Mongolica\", or \"Mongol peace\"), Europeans had long enjoyed a safe land passage, the Silk Road, to the Indies (then construed roughly as all of south and east Asia) and China, which were sources of valuable goods such as spices and silk. With the fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453, the land route to Asia became much more difficult and dangerous. Portuguese navigators tried to find a sea way to Asia.\n\nIn 1470, the Florentine astronomer Paolo dal Pozzo Toscanelli suggested to King Afonso V of Portugal that sailing west would be a quicker way to reach the Spice Islands, Cathay, and Cipangu than the route around Africa. Afonso rejected his proposal. Portuguese explorers, under the leadership of King John II, then developed the Cape Route to Asia around Africa. Major progress in this quest was achieved in 1488, when Bartolomeu Dias reached the Cape of Good Hope, in what is now South Africa. Meanwhile, in the 1480s, the Columbus brothers had picked up Toscanelli's suggestion and proposed a plan to reach the Indies by sailing west across the \"Ocean Sea\", i.e., the Atlantic. However, Dias's discovery had shifted the interests of Portuguese seafaring to the southeast passage, which complicated Columbus's proposals significantly.\n\nWashington Irving's 1828 biography of Columbus popularized the idea that Columbus had difficulty obtaining support for his plan because many Catholic theologians insisted that the Earth was flat. In fact, nearly all educated Westerners had understood, at least since the time of Aristotle, that the Earth is spherical. The sphericity of the Earth is also accounted for in the work of Ptolemy, on which medieval astronomy was largely based. Christian writers whose works clearly reflect the conviction that the Earth is spherical include Saint Bede the Venerable in his \"Reckoning of Time\", written around AD 723. In Columbus's time, the techniques of celestial navigation, which use the position of the sun and the stars in the sky, together with the understanding that the Earth is a sphere, had long been in use by astronomers and were beginning to be implemented by mariners.\n\nAs far back as the 3rd century BC, Eratosthenes had correctly computed the circumference of the Earth by using simple geometry and studying the shadows cast by objects at two remote locations. In the 1st century BC, Posidonius confirmed Eratosthenes's results by comparing stellar observations at two separate locations. These measurements were widely known among scholars, but confusion about the old-fashioned units of distance in which they were expressed led to some debate about the size of the Earth.\n\nFrom d'Ailly's \"Imago Mundi\" Columbus learned of Alfraganus's estimate that a degree of latitude (or a degree of longitude along the equator) spanned 56 miles, but did not realize that this was expressed in the Arabic mile rather than the shorter Roman mile with which he was familiar (1,480 m). He therefore estimated the circumference of the Earth to be about 30,200 km, whereas the correct value is .\n\nFurthermore, most scholars accepted Ptolemy's estimate that Eurasia spanned 180° longitude, rather than the actual 130° (to the Chinese mainland) or 150° (to Japan at the latitude of Spain). Columbus, for his part, believed the even higher estimate of Marinus of Tyre, which put the longitudinal span of the Eurasian landmass at 225°, leaving only 135° of water. He also believed that Japan (which he called \"Cipangu\", following Marco Polo) was much larger, farther to the east from China (\"Cathay\"), and closer to the equator than it is, and that there were inhabited islands even farther to the east than Japan, including the mythical Antillia, which he thought might lie not much farther to the west than the Azores. In this, he was influenced by the ideas of Florentine astronomer, Paolo dal Pozzo Toscanelli, who corresponded with Columbus in 1474 and who also defended the feasibility of a westward route to Asia.\n\nColumbus therefore estimated the distance from the Canary Islands to Japan to be about 3,000 Italian miles (3,700 km, or 2,300 statute miles). The true figure is now known to be vastly larger: about 20,000 km. No ship in the 15th century could have carried enough food and fresh water for such a long voyage, and the dangers involved in navigating through the uncharted ocean would have been formidable. Most European navigators reasonably concluded that a westward voyage from Europe to Asia was unfeasible. The Catholic Monarchs, however, having completed an expensive war in the Iberian Peninsula, were eager to obtain a competitive edge over other European countries in the quest for trade with the Indies. Columbus's project, though far-fetched, held the promise of such an advantage.\n\nThough Columbus was wrong about the number of degrees of longitude that separated Europe from the Far East and about the distance that each degree represented, he did possess valuable knowledge about the trade winds, which would prove to be the key to his successful navigation of the Atlantic Ocean. During his first voyage in 1492, the brisk trade winds from the east, commonly called \"easterlies\", propelled Columbus's fleet for five weeks, from the Canary Islands to The Bahamas. The precise first land sighting and landing point was San Salvador Island. To return to Spain against this prevailing wind would have required several months of an arduous sailing technique, called beating, during which food and drinkable water would probably have been exhausted.\n\nInstead, Columbus returned home by following the curving trade winds northeastward to the middle latitudes of the North Atlantic, where he was able to catch the \"westerlies\" that blow eastward to the coast of Western Europe. There, in turn, the winds curve southward towards the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nIt is unclear whether Columbus learned about the winds from his own sailing experience or if he had heard about them from others. The corresponding technique for efficient travel in the Atlantic appears to have been exploited first by the Portuguese, who referred to it as the \"Volta do mar\" (\"turn of the sea\"). Columbus's knowledge of the Atlantic wind patterns was, however, imperfect at the time of his first voyage. By sailing directly due west from the Canary Islands during hurricane season, skirting the so-called horse latitudes of the mid-Atlantic, Columbus risked either being becalmed or running into a tropical cyclone, both of which, by chance, he avoided.\n\nIn 1485, Columbus presented his plans to King John II of Portugal. He proposed that the king equip three sturdy ships and grant Columbus one year's time to sail out into the Atlantic, search for a western route to the Orient, and return. Columbus also requested he be made \"Great Admiral of the Ocean\", appointed governor of any and all lands he discovered, and given one-tenth of all revenue from those lands. The king submitted Columbus's proposal to his experts, who rejected it. It was their considered opinion that Columbus's estimation of a travel distance of was, in fact, far too low.\n\nIn 1488, Columbus again appealed to the court of Portugal, resulting in John II again inviting him for an audience. That meeting also proved unsuccessful, in part because not long afterwards Bartolomeu Dias returned to Portugal with news of his successful rounding of the southern tip of Africa (near the Cape of Good Hope). With an eastern sea route to Asia apparently at hand, King John was no longer interested in Columbus's far-fetched project.\n\nColumbus traveled from Portugal to both Genoa and Venice, but he received encouragement from neither. He had also dispatched his brother Bartholomew to the court of Henry VII of England to inquire whether the English crown might sponsor his expedition, but also without success.\n\nColumbus had sought an audience from the monarchs Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, who had united several kingdoms in the Iberian Peninsula by marrying and were ruling together. On 1 May 1486, permission having been granted, Columbus presented his plans to Queen Isabella, who, in turn, referred it to a committee. After the passing of much time, the savants of Spain, like their counterparts in Portugal, replied that Columbus had grossly underestimated the distance to Asia. They pronounced the idea impractical and advised their Royal Highnesses to pass on the proposed venture.\n\nHowever, to keep Columbus from taking his ideas elsewhere, and perhaps to keep their options open, the Catholic Monarchs gave him an annual allowance of 12,000 \"maravedis\" and, in 1489, furnished him with a letter ordering all cities and towns under their domain to provide him food and lodging at no cost.\n\nAfter continually lobbying at the Spanish court and two years of negotiations, he finally had success in January 1492. Ferdinand and Isabella had just conquered Granada, the last Muslim stronghold on the Iberian Peninsula, and they received Columbus in Córdoba, in the \"Alcázar\" castle. Isabella turned him down on the advice of her confessor. Columbus was leaving town by mule in despair when Ferdinand intervened. Isabella then sent a royal guard to fetch him, and Ferdinand later claimed credit for being \"the principal cause why those islands were discovered\".\n\nIn the April 1492 \"Capitulations of Santa Fe\", King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella promised Columbus that if he succeeded he would be given the rank of Admiral of the Ocean Sea and appointed Viceroy and Governor of all the new lands he could claim for Spain. He had the right to nominate three persons, from whom the sovereigns would choose one, for any office in the new lands. He would be entitled to 10 percent of all the revenues from the new lands in perpetuity. Additionally, he would also have the option of buying one-eighth interest in any commercial venture with the new lands and receive one-eighth of the profits.\n\nColumbus was later arrested in 1500 and dismissed from his posts. He and his sons, Diego and Fernando, then conducted a lengthy series of court cases against the Castilian crown, known as the \"pleitos colombinos\", alleging that the Crown had illegally reneged on its contractual obligations to Columbus and his heirs. The Columbus family had some success in their first litigation, as a judgment of 1511 confirmed Diego's position as Viceroy, but reduced his powers. Diego resumed litigation in 1512, which lasted until 1536, and further disputes continued until 1790.\n\nBetween 1492 and 1503, Columbus completed four round-trip voyages between Spain and the Americas, each voyage being sponsored by the Crown of Castile. On his first voyage, he independently discovered the Americas and magnetic declination. These voyages marked the beginning of the European exploration and colonization of the American continents, and are thus of enormous significance in Western history.\n\nColumbus always insisted, in the face of mounting evidence to the contrary, that the lands that he visited during those voyages were part of the Asian continent, as previously described by Marco Polo and other European travelers. Columbus's refusal to accept that the lands he had visited and claimed for Spain were not part of Asia might explain, in part, why the American continent was named after the Florentine explorer Amerigo Vespucci and not after Columbus.\n\nOn the evening of 3 August 1492, Columbus departed from Palos de la Frontera with three ships. The largest was a carrack (Spanish: \"nao\"), the \"Santa María\" ex-\"Gallega\" (\"Galician\"). The other two were smaller caravels. The name of one is lost: it is known today only by the nickname \"Pinta\", which in Castilian of the time meant \"painted one\". The \"Santa Clara\" was nicknamed affectionately the \"Niña\" (\"the little one\"), a pun on the name of her owner, Juan Niño of Moguer. The monarchs forced the citizens of Palos to contribute to the expedition. The \"Santa María\" was owned by Juan de la Cosa and captained by Columbus. The \"Pinta\" and the \"Niña\" were piloted by the Pinzón brothers (Martín Alonso and Vicente Yáñez).\n\nColumbus first sailed to the Canary Islands, which belonged to Castile. He restocked provisions and made repairs in Gran Canaria, then departed from San Sebastián de La Gomera on 6 September, for what turned out to be a five-week voyage across the ocean. At about 2:00 in the morning of 12 October (21 October, Gregorian Calendar New Style), a lookout on the \"Pinta\", Rodrigo de Triana (also known as Juan Rodríguez Bermeo), spotted land, and immediately alerted the rest of the crew with a shout. Thereupon, the captain of the \"Pinta\", Martín Alonso Pinzón, verified the discovery and alerted Columbus by firing a lombard. Columbus later maintained that he himself had already seen a light on the land a few hours earlier, thereby claiming for himself the lifetime pension promised by Ferdinand and Isabella to the first person to sight land.\n\nColumbus called the island (in what is now the Bahamas) \"San Salvador\" (meaning \"Holy Savior\"); the natives called it Guanahani. Exactly which island in the Bahamas this corresponds to is unresolved. Based on primary accounts and on what one would expect from the geographic positions of the islands given Columbus's course, the prime candidates are San Salvador Island (so named in 1925 on the theory that it was Columbus's San Salvador), Samana Cay, and Plana Cays.\n\nThe indigenous people he encountered, the Lucayan, Taíno, and Arawak, were peaceful and friendly. He called the inhabitants of the lands that he visited \"indios\" (Spanish for \"Indians\"). Noting their gold ear ornaments, Columbus took some of the Arawaks prisoner and insisted that they guide him to the source of the gold. From the entry in his journal of 12 October 1492, in which he wrote of them: \"Many of the men I have seen have scars on their bodies, and when I made signs to them to find out how this happened, they indicated that people from other nearby islands come to San Salvador to capture them; they defend themselves the best they can. I believe that people from the mainland come here to take them as slaves. They ought to make good and skilled servants, for they repeat very quickly whatever we say to them. I think they can very easily be made Christians, for they seem to have no religion. If it pleases our Lord, I will take six of them to Your Highnesses when I depart, in order that they may learn our language.\" Columbus noted that their primitive weapons and military tactics made them susceptible to easy conquest, writing, \"these people are very simple in war-like matters … I could conquer the whole of them with 50 men, and govern them as I pleased.\"\n\nColumbus also explored the northeast coast of Cuba, where he landed on 28 October. On 22 November, Martín Alonso Pinzón took the \"Pinta\" on an unauthorized expedition in search of an island called \"Babeque\" or \"Baneque\", which the natives had told him was rich in gold. Columbus, for his part, continued to the northern coast of Hispaniola, where he landed on 5 December. There, the \"Santa María\" ran aground on Christmas Day 1492 and had to be abandoned. The wreck was used as a target for cannon fire to impress the native peoples. Columbus was received by the native cacique Guacanagari, who gave him permission to leave some of his men behind. Columbus left 39 men, including Luis de Torres, the \"converso\" interpreter, who spoke Hebrew and Arabic, and founded the settlement of \"La Navidad\" at the site of present-day Bord de Mer de Limonade, Haiti. Columbus took more natives prisoner and continued his exploration. He kept sailing along the northern coast of Hispaniola with a single ship, until he encountered Pinzón and the \"Pinta\" on 6 January.\n\nOn 13 January 1493, Columbus made his last stop of this voyage in the New World, in the Bay of Rincón at the eastern end of the Samaná Peninsula in northeast Hispaniola. There he encountered the warlike Cigüayos, the only natives who offered violent resistance during his first voyage to the Americas. The Cigüayos refused to trade the amount of bows and arrows that Columbus desired; in the ensuing clash one Ciguayo was stabbed in the buttocks and another wounded with an arrow in his chest. Because of this and because of the Cigüayos' use of arrows, he called the inlet where he met them the Bay of Arrows (or Gulf of Arrows). Columbus kidnapped about 10 to 25 natives and took them back with him (only seven or eight of the natives arrived in Spain alive).\n\nColumbus headed for Spain on the \"Niña\", but a storm separated him from the \"Pinta,\" and forced the \"Niña\" to stop at the island of Santa Maria in the Azores. Half of his crew went ashore to say prayers in a chapel to give thanks for having survived the storm. But while praying, they were imprisoned by the governor of the island, ostensibly on suspicion of being pirates. After a two-day standoff, the prisoners were released, and Columbus again set sail for Spain.\n\nAnother storm forced him into the port at Lisbon. He anchored next to the King's harbor patrol ship on 4 March 1493 in Portugal. There, he was interviewed by Bartolomeu Dias, who had rounded the Cape of Good Hope a few years earlier, in 1488–1489. Dias's success had complicated Columbus's attempts to secure funding from the Portuguese court because the sure route to the Indies that Dias pioneered made a risky, conjectural western route unnecessary. Not finding King John II of Portugal in Lisbon, Columbus wrote a letter to him and waited for John's reply. John asked Columbus to go to \"Vale do Paraíso\" north of Lisbon to meet him. Relations between Portugal and Castile were poor at the time. Columbus went to meet with John at \"Vale do Paraíso\". Hearing of Columbus's discoveries, John told him that he believed the voyage to be in violation of the 1479 Treaty of Alcáçovas.\n\nAfter spending more than a week in Portugal, and paying his respects to Eleanor of Viseu, Columbus again set sail for Spain. Ferdinand Magellan was a young boy and a ward of Eleanor's court; it is likely he saw Columbus during this visit. After departing, and after reportedly being saved from assassins by King John, Columbus crossed the bar of Saltes and entered the harbor of Palos de la Frontera on 15 March 1493. Word of his finding new lands rapidly spread throughout Europe.\n\nColumbus left the port of Cádiz on 24 September 1493, with a fleet of 17 ships carrying 1,200 men and the supplies to establish permanent colonies in the New World. The passengers included priests, farmers, and soldiers, who would be the new colonists. This reflected the new policy of creating not just \"colonies of exploitation\", but also \"colonies of settlement\" from which to launch missions dedicated to converting the natives to Christianity. Modern studies suggest that, as reported by the \"Washington Post\", \"crew members may have included free black Africans who arrived in the New World about a decade before the slave trade began.\"\n\nAs in the first voyage, the fleet stopped at the Canary Islands, from which it departed on 13 October, following a more southerly course than on the previous expedition. On 3 November, Columbus sighted a rugged island that he named Dominica (Latin for Sunday); later that day, he landed at Marie-Galante, which he named \"Santa María la Galante\". After sailing past Les Saintes (\"Los Santos\", \"The Saints\"), he arrived at the island of Guadeloupe, which he named \"Santa María de Guadalupe de Extremadura\", after the image of the Virgin Mary venerated at the Spanish monastery of Villuercas, in Guadalupe, Cáceres, Spain. He explored that island from 4 to 10 November.\n\nMichele da Cuneo, Columbus's childhood friend from Savona, sailed with Columbus during the second voyage and wrote: \"In my opinion, since Genoa was Genoa, there was never born a man so well equipped and expert in the art of navigation as the said lord Admiral.\" Columbus named the small island of \"Saona ... to honor Michele da Cuneo, his friend from Savona.\"\n\nThe same childhood friend reported in a letter that Columbus had provided one of the captured indigenous women to him. He wrote, \"While I was in the boat, I captured a very beautiful Carib woman, whom the said Lord Admiral gave to me. When I had taken her to my cabin she was naked—as was their custom. I was filled with a desire to take my pleasure with her and attempted to satisfy my desire. She was unwilling, and so treated me with her nails that I wished I had never begun. But—to cut a long story short—I then took a piece of rope and whipped her soundly, and she let forth such incredible screams that you would not have believed your ears. Eventually we came to such terms, I assure you, that you would have thought that she had been brought up in a school for whores.\"\n\nPedro de las Casas, father of the priest Bartolomé de las Casas, also accompanied Columbus on this voyage.\n\nThe exact course of Columbus's voyage through the Lesser Antilles is debated, but it seems likely that he turned north, sighting and naming several islands, including:\n\nColumbus also sighted the chain of the Virgin Islands, which he named \"Islas de Santa Úrsula y las Once Mil Vírgenes\", \"Islands of Saint Ursula and the 11,000 Virgins\" (shortened, both on maps of the time and in common parlance, to \"Islas Vírgenes\"). He also named the islands of Virgin Gorda (\"Fat Virgin\"), Tortola, and Peter Island (\"San Pedro\").\n\nHe continued to the Greater Antilles, and landed in Puerto Rico, which he named \"San Juan Bautista\" in honor of Saint John the Baptist (a name that was later retained only for the capital city of San Juan). One of the first skirmishes between Native Americans and Europeans since the time of the Vikings occurred when Columbus's men rescued two native boys who had just been castrated by their captors in another tribe.\n\nOn 22 November, Columbus returned to Hispaniola, where he intended to visit the fort of La Navidad, built during his first voyage and located on the northern coast of Haiti. Columbus found the fort in ruins, destroyed by the native Taino people. Among the ruins were the corpses of 11 of the 39 Spaniards who had stayed behind as the first colonists in the New World.\n\nColumbus then sailed more than eastwards along the northern coast of Hispaniola, establishing a new settlement, which he called La Isabela, in the present-day Dominican Republic. However, La Isabela proved to be poorly located and the settlement was short-lived.\n\nAccording to the abstract of Columbus's journal made by Bartolomé de Las Casas, the objective of the third voyage was to verify the existence of a continent that King John II of Portugal suggested was located to the southwest of the Cape Verde Islands. King John reportedly knew of the existence of such a mainland because \"canoes had been found which set out from the coast of Guinea [West Africa] and sailed to the west with merchandise.\"\n\nOn 30 May 1498, Columbus left with six ships from Sanlúcar, Spain, for his third trip to the New World. Three of the ships headed directly for Hispaniola with much-needed supplies, while Columbus took the other three in an exploration of what might lie to the south of the Caribbean islands he had already visited, including a hoped-for passage to continental Asia.\n\nColumbus led his fleet to the Portuguese island of Porto Santo, his wife's native land. He then sailed to Madeira and spent some time there with the Portuguese captain João Gonçalves da Camara, before sailing to the Canary Islands and Cape Verde. As he crossed the Atlantic, Columbus discovered that the angle between North as indicated by a magnetic compass and North as measured by the position of the pole star changed with his position (a phenomenon now known as \"compass variation\"). He would later use his previous measurements of the compass variation to adjust his reckoning.\n\nAfter being becalmed for several days in the doldrums of the mid-Atlantic, Columbus's fleet regained its wind and, dangerously low on water, turned north in the direction of Dominica, which Columbus had visited in his previous voyage. The ships arrived at King John's hypothesized continent, which is South America, when they sighted the land of Trinidad on 31 July approaching from the southeast. The fleet sailed along the southern coast and entered Dragon's Mouth, anchoring near Soldado Rock where they made contact with a group of native Amerindians in canoes. Columbus then landed on Trinidad at Icacos Point (which he named \"Punta de Arenal\") on 2 August. After resupplying with food and water, from 4 to 12 August Columbus explored the Gulf of Paria, which separates Trinidad from what is now Venezuela, near the delta of the Orinoco River. He then touched the mainland of South America at the Paria Peninsula.\n\nExploring the new continent, Columbus correctly interpreted the enormous quantity of fresh water that the Orinoco delivered into the Atlantic Ocean as evidence that he had reached a large landmass rather than another island. He also speculated that the new continent might be the location of the biblical Garden of Eden. He then sailed to the islands of Chacachacare and Margarita. He sighted Tobago (which he named \"Bella Forma\") and Grenada (which he named \"Concepción\").\n\nIn poor health, Columbus returned to Hispaniola on 19 August, only to find that many of the Spanish settlers of the new colony were in rebellion against his rule, claiming that Columbus had misled them about the supposedly bountiful riches of the New World. A number of returning settlers and sailors lobbied against Columbus at the Spanish court, accusing him and his brothers of gross mismanagement. Columbus had some of his crew hanged for disobedience. He had an economic interest in the enslavement of the Hispaniola natives and for that reason was not eager to baptize them, which attracted criticism from some churchmen. An entry in his journal from September 1498 reads: \"From here one might send, in the name of the Holy Trinity, as many slaves as could be sold ...\"\n\nColumbus was eventually forced to make peace with the rebellious colonists on humiliating terms. In 1500, the Crown had him removed as governor, arrested, and transported in chains to Spain (see \"Accusations of tyranny\" section below). He was eventually freed and allowed to return to the New World, but not as governor.\n\nBefore leaving for his fourth voyage, Columbus wrote a letter to the Governors of the Bank of Saint George, Genoa, dated at Seville, 2 April 1502. He wrote \"Although my body is here my heart is always near you.\"\n\nColumbus made a fourth voyage nominally in search of the Strait of Malacca to the Indian Ocean. Accompanied by his brother Bartolomeo and his 13-year-old son Fernando, he left Cádiz on 11 May 1502, with his flagship \"Santa María\" and the vessels \"Gallega\", \"Vizcaína\", and \"Santiago de Palos\". He sailed to Arzila on the Moroccan coast to rescue Portuguese soldiers whom he had heard were under siege by the Moors.\n\nOn 15 June, they landed at Carbet on the island of Martinique (\"Martinica\"). A hurricane was brewing, so he continued on, hoping to find shelter on Hispaniola. He arrived at Santo Domingo on 29 June, but was denied port, and the new governor refused to listen to his storm prediction. Instead, while Columbus's ships sheltered at the mouth of the Rio Jaina, the first Spanish treasure fleet sailed into the hurricane. Columbus's ships survived with only minor damage, while 29 of the 30 ships in the governor's fleet were lost to a storm on 1 July. In addition to the ships, 500 lives (including that of the governor, Francisco de Bobadilla) and an immense cargo of gold were surrendered to the sea.\n\nAfter a brief stop at Jamaica, Columbus sailed to Central America, arriving at Guanaja (Isla de Pinos) in the Bay Islands off the coast of Honduras on 30 July. Here Bartolomeo found native merchants and a large canoe, which was described as being \"long as a galley\" and filled with cargo. On 14 August, he landed on the continental mainland at Puerto Castilla, near Trujillo, Honduras. He spent two months exploring the coasts of Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica, before arriving in Almirante Bay in Panama on 16 October.\n\nOn 5 December 1502, Columbus and his crew found themselves in a storm unlike any they had ever experienced. In his journal Columbus writes,\n\nIn Panama, Columbus learned from the Ngobe of gold and a strait to another ocean, but was told by local leader Quibían not to go past a certain point down the river. After much exploration, in January 1503, he established a garrison at the mouth of the Belén River. On 6 April, one of the ships became stranded in the river. At the same time, the garrison was attacked by Quibían and the other ships were damaged. Shipworms also damaged the ships in tropical waters.\n\nColumbus left for Hispaniola on 16 April heading north. On 10 May he sighted the Cayman Islands, naming them \"Las Tortugas\" after the numerous sea turtles there. His ships next sustained more damage in a storm off the coast of Cuba. Unable to travel farther, on 25 June 1503 they were beached in St. Ann's Bay, Jamaica.\n\nFor one year Columbus and his men remained stranded on Jamaica. A Spaniard, Diego Méndez, and some natives paddled a canoe to get help from Hispaniola. The governor, Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres, detested Columbus and obstructed all efforts to rescue him and his men. In the meantime Columbus, in a desperate effort to induce the natives to continue provisioning him and his hungry men, won their favor by predicting a lunar eclipse for 29 February 1504, using Abraham Zacuto's astronomical charts. Help finally arrived, no thanks to the governor, on 29 June 1504, and Columbus and his men arrived in Sanlúcar, Spain, on 7 November.\n\nFollowing his first voyage, Columbus was appointed Viceroy and Governor of the Indies under the terms of the Capitulations of Santa Fe. In practice, this primarily entailed the administration of the colonies in the island of Hispaniola, whose capital was established in Santo Domingo. By the end of his third voyage, Columbus was physically and mentally exhausted, his body wracked by arthritis and his eyes by ophthalmia. In October 1499, he sent two ships to Spain, asking the Court of Spain to appoint a royal commissioner to help him govern.\n\nBy this time, accusations of tyranny and incompetence on the part of Columbus had also reached the Court. Queen Isabella and King Ferdinand responded by removing Columbus from power and replacing him with Francisco de Bobadilla, a member of the Order of Calatrava. Bobadilla, who ruled as governor from 1500 until his death in a storm in 1502, had also been tasked by the Court with investigating the accusations of brutality made against Columbus. Arriving in Santo Domingo while Columbus was away in the explorations of his third voyage, Bobadilla was immediately met with complaints about all three Columbus brothers: Christopher, Bartolomeo, and Diego. Bobadilla reported to Spain that Columbus regularly used torture and mutilation to govern Hispaniola. The 48-page report, found in 2006 in the national archive in the Spanish city of Simancas, contains testimonies from 23 people, including both enemies and supporters of Columbus, about the treatment of colonial subjects by Columbus and his brothers during his seven-year rule.\n\nAccording to the report, Columbus once punished a man found guilty of stealing corn by having his ears and nose cut off and then selling him into slavery. Testimony recorded in the report stated that Columbus congratulated his brother Bartolomeo on \"defending the family\" when the latter ordered a woman paraded naked through the streets and then had her tongue cut out for suggesting that Columbus was of lowly birth. The document also describes how Columbus put down native unrest and revolt; he first ordered a brutal crackdown in which many natives were killed and then paraded their dismembered bodies through the streets in an attempt to discourage further rebellion. \"Columbus's government was characterised by a form of tyranny,\" Consuelo Varela, a Spanish historian who has seen the document, told journalists. \"Even those who loved him had to admit the atrocities that had taken place.\"\n\nBecause of their gross misgovernance, Columbus and his brothers were arrested and imprisoned upon their return to Spain from the third voyage. They lingered in jail for six weeks before King Ferdinand ordered their release. Not long after, the king and queen summoned the Columbus brothers to the Alhambra palace in Granada. There, the royal couple heard the brothers' pleas; restored their freedom and wealth; and, after much persuasion, agreed to fund Columbus's fourth voyage. But the door was firmly shut on Columbus's role as governor. Henceforth Nicolás de Ovando y Cáceres was to be the new governor of the West Indies.\n\nColumbus had always claimed the conversion of non-believers as one reason for his explorations, but he grew increasingly religious in his later years. Probably with the assistance of his son Diego and his friend the Carthusian monk Gaspar Gorricio, Columbus produced two books during his later years: a \"Book of Privileges\" (1502), detailing and documenting the rewards from the Spanish Crown to which he believed he and his heirs were entitled, and a \"Book of Prophecies\" (1505), in which he considered his achievements as an explorer but a fulfillment of Bible prophecy in the context of Christian eschatology.\n\nIn his later years, Columbus demanded that the Spanish Crown give him 10 percent of all profits made in the new lands, as stipulated in the Capitulations of Santa Fe. Because he had been relieved of his duties as governor, the crown did not feel bound by that contract and his demands were rejected. After his death, his heirs sued the Crown for a part of the profits from trade with America, as well as other rewards. This led to a protracted series of legal disputes known as the \"pleitos colombinos\" (\"Columbian lawsuits\").\n\nDuring a violent storm on his first return voyage, Columbus, then 41, suffered an attack of what was believed at the time to be gout. In subsequent years, he was plagued with what was thought to be influenza and other fevers, bleeding from the eyes, and prolonged attacks of gout. The suspected attacks increased in duration and severity, sometimes leaving Columbus bedridden for months at a time, and culminated in his death 14 years later.\n\nBased on Columbus's lifestyle and the described symptoms, modern doctors suspect that he suffered from reactive arthritis, rather than gout. Reactive arthritis, previously known as Reiter's syndrome, is a joint inflammation caused by intestinal bacterial infections or after acquiring certain sexually transmitted diseases (primarily chlamydia or gonorrhea). \"It seems likely that [Columbus] acquired reactive arthritis from food poisoning on one of his ocean voyages because of poor sanitation and improper food preparation,\" writes Dr. Frank C. Arnett, a rheumatologist and professor of internal medicine, pathology and laboratory medicine the University of Texas Medical School at Houston. \n\nOn 20 May 1506, aged probably 54, Columbus died in Valladolid, Spain. His remains were first interred at Valladolid, then at the monastery of La Cartuja in Seville (southern Spain) by the will of his son Diego Colón, who had been governor of Hispaniola. In 1542, the remains were transferred to Colonial Santo Domingo, in the present-day Dominican Republic. In 1795, when France took over the entire island of Hispaniola, Columbus's remains were moved to Havana, Cuba. After Cuba became independent following the Spanish–American War in 1898, the remains were moved back to Spain, to the Cathedral of Seville, where they were placed on an elaborate catafalque.\n\nHowever, a lead box bearing an inscription identifying \"Don Christopher Columbus\" and containing bone fragments and a bullet was discovered at Santo Domingo in 1877. To lay to rest claims that the wrong relics had been moved to Havana and that Columbus's remains had been left buried in the cathedral at Santo Domingo, DNA samples of the corpse resting in Seville were taken in June 2003 (\"History Today\" August 2003) as well as other DNA samples from the remains of his brother Diego and younger son Fernando Colón. Initial observations suggested that the bones did not appear to belong to somebody with the physique or age at death associated with Columbus. DNA extraction proved difficult; only short fragments of mitochondrial DNA could be isolated. The mitochondrial DNA fragments matched corresponding DNA from Columbus's brother, giving support that both individuals had shared the same mother.\nSuch evidence, together with anthropologic and historic analyses, led the researchers to conclude that the remains found in Seville belonged to Christopher Columbus. The authorities in Santo Domingo have never allowed the remains there to be exhumed, so it is unknown if any of those remains could be from Columbus's body as well. The Dominican remains are located in \"The Columbus Lighthouse\" (\"Faro a Colón\"), in Santo Domingo.\n\nThe anniversary of Columbus's 1492 landing in the Americas is usually observed on 12 October in Spain and throughout the Americas, except Canada. In Spain it is called the \"Fiesta Nacional de España y Día de la Hispanidad\", while a number of countries in Latin America celebrate it as \"Día de la Raza\". In the United States it is called Columbus Day and is observed annually on the second Monday in October. There are efforts in the US to rename Columbus Day as Indigenous Peoples' Day.\nThe World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, 1893, commemorated the 400th anniversary of the landing of Christopher Columbus in the Americas. Over 27 million people attended the exposition during its six-month duration.\n\nThe United States Postal Service participated in the celebration issuing the first US \"commemorative postage stamps, a series of 16 postage issues called the Columbian Issue depicting Columbus, Queen Isabella and others in the various stages of his several voyages. The issues range in value from the 1-cent to the 5-dollar denominations. Under Benjamin Harrison and his Postmaster General John Wanamaker the Columbian commemorative stamps were made available and were first issued at the World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Illinois, in 1893. Wanamaker originally introduced the idea of issuing the nation's first commemorative stamp to Harrison, the Congress and the U.S. Post Office. To demonstrate his confidence in the new Columbian commemorative issues Wanamaker purchased $10,000 worth of stamps with his own money. The Columbian Exposition lasted several months, and over $40 million in commemorative postage stamps had been sold. The 400th anniversary Columbian issues were very popular in the United States. A total of two billion stamps were issued for all the Columbian denominations, and 72 percent of these were the two-cent stamps, \"Landing of Columbus\", which paid the first-class rate for domestic mail at the time.\n\nIn 1992, a second Columbian issue was released that was identical to the first to commemorate the 500th anniversary, except for the date in the upper right hand corner of each stamp. These issues were made from the original dies of which the first engraved issues of 1893 were produced. The United States issued the series jointly for the first time with three other countries, Italy in lire, Portugal in escudos and Spain in pesetas.\n\nColumbus's voyages are considered some of the most important events in world history, kickstarting modern globalism and resulting in major demographic, commercial, economic, social, and political changes. These explorations resulted in the permanent contact between the two hemispheres. There was a massive exchange of animals, plants, fungi, diseases, technologies, mineral wealth and ideas. Exposed to old world diseases, the indigenous populations of the New world collapsed and were largely replaced by Europeans and Africans who brought with them new methods of farming, business, governance, and religious worship.\n\nThough Christopher Columbus came to be considered the discoverer of America in US and European popular culture, his historical legacy is more nuanced. America was discovered and populated by its indigenous population. Columbus was not even the first European to reach its shores, having been preceded by Erik the Red in 10th-century Greenland and Leif Erikson in 11th-century Vinland at L'Anse aux Meadows. However, Columbus's efforts brought the Americas to the attention of Europe at a time ripe for Europe to act upon. Thus, Columbus was able to initiate the enduring association between the Earth's two major landmasses and their inhabitants. \"Columbus's claim to fame isn't that he got there first,\" explains historian Martin Dugard, \"it's that he stayed.\"\n\nHistorians have traditionally argued that Columbus remained convinced to the very end that his journeys had been along the east coast of Asia, but writer Kirkpatrick Sale argues that a document in the \"Book of Privileges\" indicates Columbus knew he found a new continent. Furthermore, his journals from the third voyage call the \"land of Paria\" a \"hitherto unknown\" continent. On the other hand, his other writings continued to claim that he had reached Asia, such as a 1502 letter to Pope Alexander VI where he asserted that Cuba was the east coast of Asia. He also rationalized that the new continent of South America was the \"Earthly Paradise\" that was located \"at the end of the Orient\". Thus, it remains unclear what his true beliefs were.\n\nThe term \"pre-Columbian\" is usually used to refer to the peoples and cultures of the Americas before the arrival of Columbus and his European successors.\n\nColumbus is often credited with refuting a prevalent belief in a flat Earth. However, this legacy is a popular misconception. To the contrary, the spherical shape of the Earth had been known to scholars since antiquity, and was common knowledge among sailors. Coincidentally, the oldest surviving globe of the Earth, the Erdapfel, was made in 1492 just before Columbus's return to Europe. As such it contains no sign of the Americas and yet demonstrates the common belief in a spherical Earth.\n\nThe scholar Amerigo Vespucci, who sailed to America in the years following Columbus's first voyage, was the first to speculate that the land was not part of Asia but in fact constituted some wholly new continent previously unknown to Eurasians. His travel journals, published 1502–04, convinced German cartographer Martin Waldseemüller to reach the same conclusion, and in 1507—a year after Columbus's death—Waldseemüller published a world map calling the new continent \"America\" from Vespucci's Latinized name \"Americus\". According to Paul Lunde, \"The preoccupation of European courts with the rise of the Ottoman Turks in the East partly explains their relative lack of interest in Columbus's discoveries in the West.\"\n\nHistorically, the English had downplayed Columbus and emphasized the role of the Venetian John Cabot as a pioneer explorer, but for the emerging United States, Cabot made for a poor national hero. Veneration of Columbus in America dates back to colonial times. The name Columbia for \"America\" first appeared in a 1738 weekly publication of the debates of the British Parliament. The use of Columbus as a founding figure of New World nations and the use of the word \"Columbia\", or simply the name \"Columbus\", spread rapidly after the American Revolution. Columbus's name was given to the federal capital of the United States (District of Columbia), the capital cities of two U.S. states (Ohio and South Carolina), and the Columbia River. Outside the United States the name was used in 1819 for the Gran Colombia, a precursor of the modern Republic of Colombia. Numerous cities, towns, counties, streets, and plazas (called Plaza Colón or Plaza de Colón throughout Latin America and Spain) have been named after him. A candidate for sainthood in the Catholic Church in 1866, celebration of Columbus's legacy perhaps reached a zenith in 1892 with the 400th anniversary of his first arrival in the Americas. Monuments to Columbus like the Columbian Exposition in Chicago and Columbus Circle in New York City were erected throughout the United States and Latin America extolling him.\n\nIn 1909, descendants of Columbus undertook to dismantle the Columbus family chapel in Spain and move it to Boalsburg near State College, Pennsylvania, where it may now be visited by the public. At the museum associated with the chapel, there are a number of Columbus relics worthy of note, including the armchair that the \"Admiral of the Ocean Sea\" used at his chart table.\n\nSince the late 20th century, historians have criticized Columbus for initiating colonization and for abuse of natives. Among reasons for this criticism is the poor treatment of the native Taíno people of Hispaniola, whose population declined rapidly after contact with the Spanish. Columbus required the natives to pay tribute in gold and cotton. The indigenous population declined rapidly, due primarily to the first pandemic of European endemic diseases, which struck Hispaniola after 1519. The natives had no acquired immunity to these new diseases and suffered high fatalities. There is also documentation that they were overworked. Modern estimates for the pre-Columbian population of Hispaniola are around 250,000–300,000. According to the historian Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo y Valdes, by 1548, 56 years after Columbus landed, fewer than 500 Taíno were living on the island.\n\nThe natives of the island were systematically subjugated via the \"encomienda\" system implemented by Columbus. Adapted to the New World from Spain, it resembled the feudal system in Medieval Europe, as it was based on a lord offering \"protection\" to a class of people who owed labor. In addition, Spanish colonists under his rule began to buy and sell natives as slaves, including children.\n\nWhen natives on Hispaniola began fighting back against their oppressors in 1495, Columbus's men captured 1,500 Arawak men, women, and children in a single raid. The strongest were transported to Spain to be sold as slaves; 40 percent of the 500 shipped died en route. Historian James W. Loewen asserts that \"Columbus not only sent the first slaves across the Atlantic, he probably sent more slaves—about five thousand—than any other individual.\"\n\nAccording to Spanish colonist and Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas's contemporary \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\", when slaves held in captivity began to die at high rates, Columbus ordered all natives over the age of thirteen to pay a hawk's bell full of gold powder every three months. Natives who brought this amount to the Spanish were given a copper token to hang around their necks. The Spanish amputated the hands of those without tokens, and left them to bleed to death. Thousands of natives committed suicide by poison to escape their persecution.\n\nDuring his brief reign Columbus was reported to have executed Spanish colonists for minor crimes as well as use dismemberment as another form of punishment.\n\nColumbus's soldiers killed and enslaved with impunity at every landing. When Columbus fell ill in 1495, \"what little restraint he had maintained over his men disappeared as he went through a lengthy period of recuperation. The troops went wild, stealing, killing, raping, and torturing natives, trying to force them to divulge the whereabouts of the imagined treasure-houses of gold.\" According to Las Casas, 50,000 natives perished during this period. Upon his recovery, Columbus organized his troops' efforts, forming a squadron of several hundred heavily armed men and more than twenty attack dogs. Dogs were used to hunt down natives who attempted to flee. Columbus's men tore across the land, killing thousands of sick and unarmed natives. Soldiers would use their captives for sword practice, attempting to decapitate them or cut them in half with a single blow.\n\nThe Arawaks attempted to fight back against Columbus's men but lacked their armor, guns, swords, and horses. When taken prisoner, they were hanged or burned to death. Desperation led to mass suicides and infanticide among the natives. In just two years under Columbus's governorship, over 125,000 of the 250,000–300,000 natives in Haiti were dead, and in three decades, \"virtually every member of the gentle race ... had been wiped out.\" Disease, warfare and harsh enslavement contributed to the depopulation.\n\nWithin indigenous circles, Columbus is often viewed as a key agent of genocide. Samuel Eliot Morison, a Harvard historian and author of a multivolume biography on Columbus writes, \"The cruel policy initiated by Columbus and pursued by his successors resulted in complete genocide.\" Loewen laments that while \"Haiti under the Spanish is one of the primary instances of genocide in all human history\", only one major history text he reviewed mentions Columbus's role in it.\n\nHowever some of these accounts may be part of Black Legend, while others challenge the genocide narrative. Noble David Cook, writing about the Black Legend and the conquest of the Americas wrote, \"There were too few Spaniards to have killed the millions who were reported to have died in the first century after Old and New World contact\". He instead estimates that the death toll was caused by diseases like smallpox, which according to some estimates had an 80–90% fatality rate in Native American populations. Disease played a significant role in the destruction of the natives. Indirect evidence suggests that some serious illness may have arrived with the 1500 colonists who accompanied Columbus's second expedition in 1493.\n\nBy the end of 1494, disease and famine had claimed two-thirds of the Spanish settlers. A native Nahuatl account depicted the social breakdown that accompanied the pandemics: \"A great many died from this plague, and many others died of hunger. They could not get up to search for food, and everyone else was too sick to care for them, so they starved to death in their beds.\" When the pandemic finally struck in 1519 it wiped out much of the remaining native population. Charles C. Mann wrote \"It was as if the suffering these diseases had caused in Eurasia over the past millennia were concentrated into the span of decades.\"\n\nSome historians have argued that, while brutal, Columbus was simply a product of his time, and being a figure of the 15th century, should not be judged by the morality of the 20th century.\n\nAlthough an abundance of artwork involving Christopher Columbus exists, no authentic contemporary portrait has been found. James W. Loewen, author of \"Lies My Teacher Told Me\", believes the various posthumous portraits have no historical value.\n\nSometime between 1531 and 1536, Alejo Fernández painted an altarpiece, \"The Virgin of the Navigators\", that includes a depiction of Columbus. The painting was commissioned for a chapel in Seville's Casa de Contratación (House of Trade) and remains there, as the earliest known painting about the discovery of the Americas.\n\nAt the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition, 71 alleged portraits of Columbus were displayed; most did not match contemporary descriptions. These writings describe him as having reddish or blond hair, which turned to white early in his life, light colored eyes, as well as being a lighter-skinned person with too much sun exposure turning his face red. Accounts consistently describe Columbus as a large and physically strong man of some or more in height, easily taller than the average European of his day.\n\nThe most iconic image of Columbus is a portrait by Sebastiano del Piombo, which has been reproduced in many textbooks. It agrees with descriptions of Columbus in that it shows a large man with auburn hair, but the painting dates from 1519 and cannot, therefore, have been painted from life. Furthermore, the inscription identifying the subject as Columbus was probably added later, and the face shown differs from other images, including that of the \"Virgin of the Navigators.\"\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30807701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30807701", "title": "CrimeStat", "text": "CrimeStat\n\nCrimeStat is a crime mapping software program. CrimeStat is Windows-based program that conducts spatial and statistical analysis and is designed to interface with a geographic information system (GIS). The program is developed by Ned Levine & Associates under the direction of Ned Levine, with funding by the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), an agency of the United States Department of Justice. The program and manual are distributed for free by NIJ.\n\nCrimeStat performs spatial analysis on objects located in a GIS. The objects can be points (e.g., events, locations), zones (e.g., blocks, traffic analysis zones, cities) or lines (e.g., street segments). The program can analyze the distribution of the objects, identify hot spots, indicate spatial autocorrelation, monitor the interaction of events in space and time, and model travel behavior.\n\nThere is a regression module for non-linear spatial modeling. Some of its tools are specific to crime analysis. Others can by applied in many fields. There are 55 statistical routines in the program.\n\nCrimeStat has been developed since the mid-1990s. The first prototype was a Unix-based C++ program called Pointstat that was developed to analyze motor vehicle crashes in Honolulu. In 1996, the National Institute of Justice funded the first version of CrimeStat and the early Pointstat routines were folded into the program.\n\nThe first version (1.0) was released in August 1999: the latest version is 3.3 (July 2010).\n\n\nCrimeStat can input data both attribute and GIS files but requires that all datasets have geographical coordinates assigned for the objects. The basic file format is dBase (dbf) but shape (shp), and Ascii text files can also be read. The program requires a Primary File but many routines also use a Secondary File. CrimeStat uses three coordinate systems: spherical (longitude, latitude), projected and directional (angles).\n\nDistance can be measured as direct, indirect (Manhattan) or on a network (which also allows travel time or speed to be used). Distance units are decimal degrees for spherical coordinates and feet, meters, miles, kilometers, or nautical miles for projected coordinates. The program can create reference grids. Several routines also use the area of the geographical region for their calculations.\n\nThe spatial description routines include:\n\n\nMonte Carlo simulations can be run on many routines to estimate credible intervals.\n\nThe spatial modeling routines include:\n\nThe Crime Travel Demand module models crime travel over a metropolitan area. It is an application of travel demand modeling to crime or other rare events. The purpose is to calibrate the travel behavior of a large number of offenders in committing crimes as a basis for modeling alternative interventions by law enforcement\n\nCrimeStat has three different types of output:\n\nUnlike some other spatial statistics programs, CrimeStat has no mapping capabilities and must be used with GIS software. Some users have found that the GUI interface is difficult to understand and inconsistent between routines.\n\nBecause CrimeStat analyzes points in most routines, its results are not always consistent with those of software that analyzes areas (e.g. GeoDa). Finally, the size of the manual may be daunting to new users of spatial statistics.\n\nIn addition to the development of the CrimeStat program, all the routines through version 2.0 plus the spatial autocorrelation routines have been converted into .NET libraries for use in third-party applications. Version 1.0 of the CrimeStat Libraries was released in August 2010 and is available on the CrimeStat web page.\n\nReviews and examples of CrimeStat in its application to crime analysis have been published.\nExamples of the use of CrimeStat outside of crime analysis have also appeared.\n\nBaltimore County Police analysts use CrimeStat to perform various spatial analytics. The primary responsibility of police analysts in Baltimore County is to identify and address existing or anticipated crime problems. Police analysts use “hot spot analysis” in CrimeStat to identify areas within the county having high concentrations of crime. Another example demonstrating the use of CrimeStat involves the department’s Data Driven Approaches to Crime and Traffic Safety (DDACTS).\n\nPolice analysts used Nearest Neighbor Hierarchical Spatial clustering to identify areas having high concentrations of crime and traffic accidents. Analysts found that the two cluster groups, crime and accidents, did tend to overlap in many areas of the county. The County’s DDACTS program was initiated to increase police presence in the target areas. Preliminary results have been encouraging, with most targeted crimes and traffic accidents dropping in DDACTS areas.\n\nThe Department’s DDACTS program has since become a model nationwide with the support of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Finally, police analysts have used CrimeStat’s Journey to Crime and Bayesian Journey to Crime Estimation models to successfully identify a serial offender’s activity space. Once an offender’s activity space has been identified, police analysts will examine information captured from other police sources such as traffic stops, Field Interview Reports, and License Plate Readers to determine if a contact was made with a potential offender.\n\nPolice have also used CrimeStat’s Crime Travel Demand model to identify road networks used by drivers under the influence (DUI). Roadways identified by the Crime Travel Demand model were targeted for interdiction programs by the department’s DUI Enforcement Team. Similar weighted road networks have been used in conjunction with Journey to Crime models to improve identification of an offender’s activity space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41586264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41586264", "title": "Darnell Falls", "text": "Darnell Falls\n\nDarnell Falls is a waterfall located in the Chattahoochee National Forest in Rabun County, Georgia that cascades for over 30 feet. There is a short hiking trail that provides access to the falls\n"}
{"id": "24031622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24031622", "title": "De Immigrant", "text": "De Immigrant\n\nDe Immigrant is a windmill located in Fulton, Illinois, built on a flood-control dike on the Mississippi River. The City of Fulton contracted Molema Millbuilders, Havenga Construction, and Lowlands Management on December 4, 1998 to construct a Dutch windmill, to be fabricated by native millwrights in the Netherlands and shipped to Fulton for assembly. Two months later, construction began with thirty metric tons of wood. The construction took place in phases, and the tower, cap, sails, and machinery were all put together on November 19, 1999. On May 5, 2001, De Immigrant officially began grinding wheat, buckwheat, rye, and cornmeal.\n\n"}
{"id": "37711804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37711804", "title": "E9 (countries)", "text": "E9 (countries)\n\nThe E9 is a forum of nine countries, which was formed to achieve the goals of UNESCO's Education For All (EFA) initiative. The “E” stands for education and the “9” represents the following nine countries: Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria and Pakistan, representing over half of the world's population and 70% of the world's illiterate adults. E-9 Initiative was launched in 1993 at the EFA Summit in New Delhi, India. E-9 Initiative has become a forum for the countries to discuss their experiences related to education, exchange best practices, and monitor EFA-related progress.\n\nE-9 countries have made significant socioeconomic progress. Brazil, China, India, Indonesia and Mexico are the Members of G-20. Mexico is an OECD member, while China is now the second largest economy in the world. Brazil and India are also the top ten economies. Indonesia has also been growing fast. In 1993, the E-9 countries accounted for only 16.5% of world’s nominal GDP. Now, they represent almost 30% of world’s nominal GDP.\n\n"}
{"id": "4014599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4014599", "title": "EOSDIS", "text": "EOSDIS\n\nThe Earth Observing System Data and Information System (EOSDIS) is a key core capability in NASA’s Earth Science Data Systems Program. It is a comprehensive data and information system designed to perform a wide variety of functions in support of a heterogeneous national and international user community. EOSDIS provides a spectrum of services; some services are intended for a diverse group of casual users while others are intended only for a select cadre of research scientists chosen by NASA's peer-reviewed competitions, and then many fall somewhere in between. The primary services provided by EOSDIS are User Support, Data Archive, Management and Distribution, Information Management, and Product Generation, all of which are managed by the Earth Science Data and Information System (ESDIS) Project.\n\nEOSDIS ingests, processes, archives, and distributes data from a large number of Earth-observing satellite, and provides end-to-end capabilities for managing NASA’s Earth science data from various sources – satellites, aircraft, field measurements, and various other programs. For the Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite missions, EOSDIS provides capabilities for command and control, scheduling, data capture and initial (Level 0) processing. These capabilities, constituting the EOSDIS Mission Operations, are managed by the Earth Science Mission Operations (ESMO) Project. NASA network capabilities transport the data to the science operations facilities. EOSDIS consists of a set of processing facilities and Earth Science Data Centers (referred to as Distributed Active Archive Centers, or DAACs) distributed across the United States. These processing facilities and DAACs serve hundreds of thousands of users around the world, providing hundreds of millions of data files each year covering many Earth science disciplines. The EOSDIS project as of September 2012 reported it contained approximately 10 PB of data in its database with ingestion of approximately 8.5 TB daily.\n\nThe remaining capabilities of EOSDIS constitute the EOSDIS Science Operations, which are managed by the Earth Science Data and Information System (ESDIS) Project. These capabilities include: generation of higher level (Level 1-4) science data products for EOS missions; archiving and distribution of data products from EOS and other satellite missions, as well as aircraft and field measurement campaigns. The EOSDIS science operations are performed within a distributed system of many interconnected nodes (Science Investigator-led Processing Systems and distributed, discipline-specific, Earth science data centers) with specific responsibilities for production, archiving, and distribution of Earth science data products. The distributed data centers serve a large and diverse user community (as indicated by EOSDIS performance metrics) by providing capabilities to search and access science data products and specialized services.\n\nFrom early 1980 through 1986, NASA supported pilot data system studies to assess the feasibility and development of publicly accessible electronic data systems. Part of the congressional approval of the EOS mission in 1990 included the NASA Earth Science Enterprise, which supported the development of a long-term data and information system (EOSDIS). This system would be accessible to both the science research community and the broader public, built on a distributed open architecture. With these functional requirements for space operations control and product generation for EOS, the EOSDIS would also be responsible for the data archival, management, and distribution of all NASA Earth science mission instrument data during the mission life.\n\nEach EOSDIS Data Center is distinguished from one another by their specific Earth system science discipline. In addition to the search-and-order capabilities provided by the Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) and the Common Metadata Repository (or CMR, which has replaced the former EOS Clearinghouse, or ECHO), the data centers have individual online systems that allow them to provide unique services for users of a particular type of data. The center-specific systems emphasize data products, services, and data-handling tools unique to the data center.\n\nData Center-specific search tools\n\nThe Global Change Master Directory (GCMD) is a directory to Earth science data and services. The GCMD database currently holds more than 30,000 Earth science data sets and service descriptions covering all aspects of Earth and environmental sciences. One can use the search box or select from the available keywords to search for data and services.\nECHO - Application Program Interfaces (APIs) for Search and Order\n\nGlobal Change Master Directory\n\nCMR is a metadata catalog of NASA's EOS data and a registry for related data services (e.g. reformatting, pattern recognition). CMR's catalog contains more than 3200 data sets held at 12 EOSDIS data centers. Users can access the data and services by using general or community-tailored clients that access CMR using a series of Application Program Interfaces (APIs) defined using web services.\n\nEarthdata will replace Reverb as EOSDIS's web-based client for discovering and ordering cross-discipline data from all of CMR's metadata holdings in January 2018. Earthdata allows users, including those without specific knowledge of the data, to search science data holdings, retrieve high-level descriptions of data sets and detailed descriptions of the data inventory, view browse images, and submit orders via CMR to the appropriate data providers.\n\nA Distributed Active Archive Center (DAAC) is a part of EOSDIS. DAACs process, archive, document, and distribute data from NASA's past and current Earth Observing System (EOS) satellites and field measurement programs. Each of the twelve data centers serves one or more specific Earth science disciplines and provides its user community with data products, data information, user services, and tools unique to its particular science.\n\nThe following is a list of data centers and data specializations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58014640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58014640", "title": "Erdei", "text": "Erdei\n\nErdei or Erdey is a Hungarian habitational surname originally used to denote a person living or working in or near a woodland or forest (), thus roughly corresponding to the English surnames Woodman or Forester. It may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "9182455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9182455", "title": "Forgotten NY", "text": "Forgotten NY\n\nForgotten New York is a website created by Kevin Walsh in 1999, chronicling the unnoticed and unchronicled aspects of New York City such as painted building ads, decades-old castiron lampposts, 18th-century houses, abandoned subway stations, trolley track remnants, out-of-the-way neighborhoods, and flashes of nature hidden in the midst of the big city. In 2003, HarperCollins approached Walsh with the idea of turning the website into a book; \"Forgotten New York\" was published in September 2006.\n\nWalsh released \"Forgotten Queens\", a collaboration with the Greater Astoria Historical Society, in December 2013 on Arcadia Books, is currently working on a \"Forgotten NY\" e-book, and plans a Forgotten NY app. He is also currently working on other projects within the site as well, such as a Forgotten Boston website.\n\nOn March 2, 2015, the Guides Association of New York City awarded Forgotten New York its first Outstanding New York Website award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7810648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7810648", "title": "GPSBabel", "text": "GPSBabel\n\nGPSBabel is a cross-platform, free software to transfer routes, tracks, and waypoint data to and from consumer GPS units, and to convert between over a hundred types of GPS data formats. It has a command-line interface and a graphical interface for Windows, MacOS, and Linux users.\n\nGPSBabel is part of many Linux distributions including Debian GNU/Linux and Fedora, and also part of the 'fink' system for getting Unix software on Mac OS X. The most current, official version is always on the official GPSBabel download site. \n\nMany contributors to OpenStreetMap use GPSBabel to convert GPS track data from proprietary formats to the GPX format OpenStreetMap requires.\n\nGPSBabel is popular in the Geocaching community because it enables people with incompatible GPS units to share data.\n\nGeographic information system (GIS) applications such as QGIS and Grass use GPSBabel for many import and export operations and processing.\n\nPhotographers frequently use GPSBabel for geotagging images, associating location with photographs. This relies on GPS data loggers, either external or internal to the camera.\n\nGPSBabel enables owners of many different brands of GPS units to view their GPS data in several popular consumer map programs, such as Google Earth and Microsoft Streets & Trips.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51897987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51897987", "title": "Galil (administrative unit)", "text": "Galil (administrative unit)\n\nIn Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, galils were administrative units of Jewish internal autonomy. They were governed by Jewish regional councils (\"va'ad galil\").\n\nWhile initially they matched the Polish structure of \"voivodships\" and other administrative divisions in other parts of the Commonwealth, over time the discrepancies between the state internal borders and those of the Jewish autonomy grew quite pronounced.\n"}
{"id": "49786957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49786957", "title": "Geographic Center of Taiwan", "text": "Geographic Center of Taiwan\n\nGeographic Center of Taiwan () is the center point of Taiwan Island located in Puli Township, Nantou County, Taiwan.\n\nThe first Geographic Center of Taiwan monument was constructed at the base of Mount Hutou (虎頭山) in the 1970s. Using a more modern land survey technique, a newer monument was built later on at the peak of the mountain.\n\nThe first monument features an inscription by former President Chiang Ching-kuo. There are concentric steel rings on top of the monument pole, forming the basis of Puli Township logo.\n\nThe current monument was built with aborigines architectural style of columns with flare tops. The monument was built on the former site of Yoshitaka Shrine built by the Japanese.\n\n"}
{"id": "23306833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23306833", "title": "Gobi Desert", "text": "Gobi Desert\n\nThe Gobi Desert () is a large desert region in Asia. It covers parts of northern and northwestern China, and of southern Mongolia. The desert basins of the Gobi are bounded by the Altai Mountains and the grasslands and steppes of Mongolia on the north, by the Taklamakan Desert to the west, by the Hexi Corridor and Tibetan Plateau to the southwest, and by the North China Plain to the southeast. The Gobi is notable in history as part of the great Mongol Empire, and as the location of several important cities along the Silk Road.\n\nThe Gobi is a rain shadow desert, formed by the Tibetan Plateau blocking precipitation from the Indian Ocean reaching the Gobi territory.\n\nThe Gobi measures over from southwest to northeast and from north to south. The desert is widest in the west, along the line joining the Lake Bosten and the Lop Nor (87°–89° east). It occupies an arc of land in area as of 2007; it is the fifth-largest desert in the world and Asia's second largest. Much of the Gobi is not sandy but has exposed bare rock.\n\nIn its broadest definition, the Gobi includes the long stretch of desert extending from the foot of the Pamirs (77° east) to the Greater Khingan Mountains, 116°-118° east, on the border of Manchuria; and from the foothills of the Altay, Sayan, and Yablonoi mountain ranges on the north to the Kunlun, Altyn-Tagh, and Qilian mountain ranges, which form the northern edges of the Tibetan Plateau, on the south.\n\nA relatively large area on the east side of the Greater Khingan range, between the upper waters of the Songhua (Sungari) and the upper waters of the Liao-ho, is reckoned to belong to the Gobi by conventional usage. Some geographers and ecologists prefer to regard the western area of the Gobi region (as defined above): the basin of the Tarim in Xinjiang and the desert basin of Lop Nor and Hami (Kumul), as forming a separate and independent desert, called the Taklamakan Desert.\n\nArcheologists and paleontologists have done excavations in the Nemegt Basin in the northwestern part of the Gobi Desert (in Mongolia), which is noted for its fossil treasures, including early mammals, dinosaur eggs, and prehistoric stone implements, some 100,000 years old.\n\nThe Gobi is overall a cold desert, with frost and occasionally snow occurring on its dunes. Besides being quite far north, it is also located on a plateau roughly above sea level, which contributes to its low temperatures. An average of approximately of rain falls annually in the Gobi. Additional moisture reaches parts of the Gobi in winter as snow is blown by the wind from the Siberian Steppes. These winds may cause the Gobi to reach in winter to in summer.\n\nHowever, the climate of the Gobi is one of great extremes, combined with rapid changes of temperature of as much as . These can occur not only seasonally but within 24 hours.\n\nIn southern Mongolia, the temperature has been recorded as low as . In contrast, in Alxa, Inner Mongolia, it rises as high as in July.\n\nAverage winter minimums are a frigid , while summertime maximums are a warm . Most of the precipitation falls during the summer.\n\nAlthough the southeast monsoons reach the southeast parts of the Gobi, the area throughout this region is generally characterized by extreme dryness, especially during the winter, when the Siberian anticyclone is at its strongest. The southern and central parts of the Gobi Desert have variable plant growth due to this monsoon activity. The more northern areas of the Gobi are very cold and dry, making it unable to support much plant growth; this cold and dry weather is attributed to Siberian-Mongolian high pressure cells. Hence, the icy sandstorms and snowstorms of spring and early summer plus early January (winter).\n\nThe Gobi Desert is the source of many important fossil finds, including the first dinosaur eggs.\n\nDespite the harsh conditions, these deserts and the surrounding regions sustain many animals, including black-tailed gazelles, marbled polecats, wild Bactrian camels, Mongolian wild ass and sandplovers. They are occasionally visited by snow leopards, brown bears, and wolves. Lizards are especially well-adapted to the climate of the Gobi Desert, with approximately 30 species distributed across its southern Mongolian border. The most common vegetation in the Gobi desert are shrubs adapted to drought. These shrubs included gray sparrow's saltwort (\"Salsola passerina\"), gray sagebrush, and low grasses such as needle grass and bridlegrass. Due to livestock grazing, the amount of shrubs in the desert has decreased. Several large nature reserves have been established in the Gobi, including Gobi Gurvansaikhan National Park, Great Gobi A and Great Gobi B Strictly Protected Area.\n\nThe area is vulnerable to trampling by livestock and off-road vehicles (effects from human intervention are greater in the eastern Gobi Desert, where rainfall is heavier and may sustain livestock). In Mongolia, grasslands have been degraded by goats, which are raised by nomadic herders as source of cashmere wool.\n\nLarge copper deposits are being mined by Rio Tinto Group. The mine was and remains controversial. There was significant opposition in Mongolia's parliament to the terms under which the mine will proceed, and some are calling for the terms to be renegotiated. Specifically, the contention revolves primarily around the question of whether negotiations were fair (Rio Tinto is far better resourced) and whether Rio Tinto will pay adequate taxes on the revenues it derives from the mine (an agreement was reached whereby the operation will be exempt from windfall tax.\n\nThe Gobi Desert is expanding at an alarming rate, in a process known as desertification. The expansion is particularly rapid on the southern edge into China, which has seen of grassland overtaken every year by the Gobi Desert. Dust storms, which used to occur regularly in China, have increased in frequency in the past 20 years, mainly due to desertification. They have caused further damage to China's agriculture economy.\n\nThe northern and eastern boundaries between desert and grassland are constantly changing. This is mostly due to the climate conditions before the growing season, which influence the rate of evapotranspiration and subsequent plant growth.\n\nThe expansion of the Gobi is attributed mostly to human activities, notably deforestation, overgrazing, and depletion of water resources. China has tried various plans to slow the expansion of the desert, which have met with some small degree of success, but no major effects. The most recent project is called the Three-North Shelter Forest Program, huge strips of newly planted forests; the government hopes the forests will help stabilize the soil, retain moisture, and act as a buffer against further desertification.\n\nThe Gobi, broadly defined, can be divided into five distinct dry ecoregions, based on variations in climate and topography:\n\n\nThe surface is extremely diversified, although there are no great differences in vertical elevation. Between Ulaanbaatar () and the small lake of Iren-dubasu-nor (), the surface is greatly eroded. Broad flat depressions and basins are separated by groups of flat-topped mountains of relatively low elevation ), through which archaic rocks crop out as crags and isolated rugged masses. The floors of the depressions lie mostly between above sea-level. Farther south, between Iren-dutiasu-nor and the Yellow River, comes a region of broad tablelands alternating with flat plains, the latter ranging at altitudes of 1000–1100 m and the former at . The slopes of the plateaus are more or less steep, and are sometimes penetrated by \"bays\" of the lowlands.\n\nAs the border-range of the Hyangan is approached, the country steadily rises up to and then to . Here small lakes frequently fill the depressions, though the water in them is generally salt or brackish. Both here and for south of Ulaanbaatar, streams are frequent and grass grows more or less abundantly. Through all the central parts, until the bordering mountains are reached, trees and shrubs are utterly absent. Clay and sand are the predominant formations; the watercourses, especially in the north, being frequently excavated deep. In many places in the flat, dry valleys or depressions farther south, beds of loess, thick, are exposed. West of the route from Ulaanbaatar to Kalgan, the country presents approximately the same general features, except that the mountains are not so irregularly scattered in groups but have more strongly defined strikes, mostly east to west, west-north-west to east-south-east, and west-south-west to east-north-east.\n\nThe altitudes are higher, those of the lowlands ranging from , and those of the ranges from higher, though in a few cases they reach altitudes of . The elevations do not form continuous chains, but make up a congeries of short ridges and groups rising from a common base and intersected by a labyrinth of ravines, gullies, glens and basins. But the tablelands, built up of the horizontal red deposits of the Han-gai (Obruchev's Gobi formation) which are characteristic of the southern parts of eastern Mongolia, are absent here or occur only in one locality, near the Shara-muren river. They are greatly intersected by gullies or dry watercourses. Water is scarce, with no streams, no lakes, no wells, and precipitation falls seldom. The prevailing winds blow from the west and northwest, and the pall of dust overhangs the country as in the Takla Makan and the desert of Lop. Characteristic of the flora are wild garlic, \"Kalidium gracile\", wormwood, saxaul, \"Nitraria schoberi\", \"Caragana\", Ephedra, saltwort and the grass \"Lasiagrostis splendens\". The taana wild onion \"Allium polyrrhizum\" is the main browse eaten by many herd animals, and Mongolians claim that this is essential to produce the correct, slightly hazelnut-like flavour of camel airag (fermented milk).\n\nThis great desert country of Gobi is crossed by several trade routes, some of which have been in use for thousands of years. Among the most important are those from Kalgan (at the Great Wall) to Ulaanbaatar (); from Jiuquan (in Gansu) to Hami ; from Hami to Beijing (); from Hohhot to Hami and Barkul; and from Lanzhou (in Gansu) to Hami.\n\nThe southwestern portion of the Gobi, known also as the Hsi-tau and the Little Gobi, fills the space between the great north loop of the Yellow River on the east, the Ejin River on the west, and the Qilian Mountains and narrow rocky chain of Longshou, in altitude, on the southwest. The Ordos Desert, which covers the northeastern portion of the Ordos Plateau, in the great north loop of the Yellow River, is part of this ecoregion. It belongs to the middle basin of the three great depressions into which Potanin divides the Gobi as a whole.\n\n\"Topographically,\" says Nikolai Przhevalsky, \"it is a perfectly level plain, which in all probability once formed the bed of a huge lake or inland sea.\" He concludes this based on the level area of the region as a whole, the hard saldgine clay and the sand-strewn surface and, lastly, the salt lakes which occupy its lowest parts. For hundreds of kilometers, nothing can be seen but bare sands; in some places they continue so far without a break that the Mongols call them \"Tengger\" (i.e. sky). These vast expanses are absolutely waterless, nor do any oases relieve the unbroken stretches of yellow sand, which alternate with equally vast areas of saline clay or, nearer the foot of the mountains, with barren shingle. Although on the whole a level country with a general altitude of , this section, like most other parts of the Gobi, is crowned by a chequered network of hills and broken ranges going up 300 m higher. The vegetation is confined to a few varieties of bushes and a dozen kinds of grasses and herbs, the most conspicuous being saxaul (\"Haloxylon ammondendron\") and \"Agriophyllum gobicum\". The others include prickly convolvulus, field wormwood (\"Artemisia campestris\"), acacia, \"Inula ammophila\", \"Sophora flavescens\", \"Convolvulus ammanii\", \"Peganum\" and \"Astragalus\" species, but all dwarfed, deformed and starved. The fauna consists of little but antelope, wolf, fox, hare, hedgehog, marten, numerous lizards and a few birds, e.g. the sandgrouse, lark, stonechat, sparrow, crane, Henderson's ground jay (\"Podoces hendersoni\"), horned lark (\"Eremophila alpestris\"), and crested lark (\"Galerida cristata\").\n\nThe Yulduz valley or valley of the Haidag-gol (–) is a mini desert enclosed by two prominent members of the Shanashen Trahen Osh mountain range, namely the chucis and the kracenard pine rallies, running perpendicular and far from one another. As they proceed south, they transcend and transpose, sweeping back on east and west respectively, with Lake Bosten in between. These two ranges mark the northern and the southern edges respectively of a great swelling, which extends eastward for nearly twenty degrees of longitude. On its northern side, the Chol-tagh descends steeply, and its foot is fringed by a string of deep depressions, ranging from Lukchun ( below sea level) to Hami ( above sea-level). To the south of the Kuruk-tagh lie the desert of Lop Nur, the Kum-tagh desert, and the valley of the Bulunzir-gol. To this great swelling, which arches up between the two border-ranges of the Chol-tagh and Kuruk-tagh, the Mongols give the name of \"Ghashuun-Gobi\" or \"Salt Desert\". It is some across from north to south, and is traversed by a number of minor parallel ranges, ridges and chains of hills. Down its middle runs a broad stony valley, wide, at an elevation of . The Chol-tagh, which reaches an average altitude of , is absolutely sterile, and its northern foot rests upon a narrow belt of barren sand, which leads down to the depressions mentioned above.\n\nThe Kuruk-tagh is the greatly disintegrated, denuded and wasted relic of a mountain range which used to be of incomparably greater magnitude. In the west, between Lake Bosten and the Tarim, it consists of two, possibly of three, principal ranges, which, although broken in continuity, run generally parallel to one another, and embrace between them numerous minor chains of heights. These minor ranges, together with the principal ranges, divide the region into a series of long; narrow valleys, mostly parallel to one another and to the enclosing mountain chains, which descend like terraced steps, on the one side towards the depression of Lukchun and on the other towards the desert of Lop.\n\nIn many cases these latitudinal valleys are barred transversely by ridges or spurs, generally elevations en masse of the bottom of the valley. Where such elevations exist, there is generally found, on the east side of the transverse ridge, a cauldron-shaped depression, which some time or other has been the bottom of a former lake, but is now nearly a dry salt-basin. The surface configuration is in fact markedly similar to that which occurs in the inter-mount latitudinal valleys of the Kunlun Mountains. The hydrography of the Ghashiun-Gobi and the Kuruk-tagh is determined by these chequered arrangements of the latitudinal valleys. Most of the principal streams, instead of flowing straight down these valleys, cross them diagonally and only turn west after they have cut their way through one or more of the transverse barrier ranges.\n\nTo the highest range on the great swelling Grumm-Grzhimailo gives the name of Tuge-tau, its altitude being above the level of the sea and some above the crown of the swelling itself. This range he considers to belong to the Choltagh system, whereas Sven Hedin would assign it to the Kuruk-tagh. This last, which is pretty certainly identical with the range of Kharateken-ula (also known as the Kyzyl-sanghir, Sinir, and Singher Mountains), that overlooks the southern shore of the Lake Bosten, though parted from it by the drift-sand desert of Ak-bel-kum (White Pass Sands), has at first a west-northwest to east-southeast strike, but it gradually curves round like a scimitar towards the east-northeast and at the same time gradually decreases in elevation.\n\nIn 91° east, while the principal range of the Kuruk-tagh system wheels to the east-northeast, four of its subsidiary ranges terminate, or rather die away somewhat suddenly, on the brink of a long narrow depression (in which Sven Hedin sees a northeast bay of the former great Central Asian lake of Lop-nor), having over against them the écheloned terminals of similar subordinate ranges of the Pe-shan (Boy-san) system (see below). The Kuruk-tagh is throughout a relatively low, but almost completely barren range, being entirely destitute of animal life, save for hares, antelopes and wild camels, which frequent its few small, widely scattered oases. The vegetation, which is confined to these same relatively favoured spots, is of the scantiest and is mainly confined to bushes of saxaul \"(Haloxylon)\", \"anabasis\", reeds (kamish), tamarisks, poplars, and Ephedra.\n\nThe Gobi had a long history of human habitation, mostly by nomadic peoples. By the early 20th century, the region was under the nominal control of Manchu-China, and inhabited mostly by Mongols, Uyghurs, and Kazakhs. The Gobi Desert as a whole was known only very imperfectly to outsiders, and information was confined to observations by individual travellers from their respective itineraries across the desert. Among the European explorers who contributed to early-20th-century understanding of the Gobi, the most important were the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28360429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28360429", "title": "Haunted highway", "text": "Haunted highway\n\nHaunted highways or roads refer to streets, roads or highways which are the subject of folklore and urban legends, including rumors and reports of ghostly apparitions, ghostly figures, phantom hitchhikers, phantom vehicles, repeating or looping highways, or other paranormal phenomena.\n\nAnnie's Road in New Jersey is supposedly haunted by the ghost of a woman killed on the road many years ago. It is located in Totowa on the first half of Riverview Drive.\n\nPart of Provincial highway no. 9, Bei Yi Highway connects Taipei and Yilan County. The highway used to be a fatal road in Taiwan due to bad road conditions. Lots of ghost money (joss money) along the highway was a common sight in the past. The ghost money was scattered on the highway to appease the spirits. Recently, the highway becomes the most popular heavy motorcycle route in Taipei and frequent fatal accidents continue to mount.\n\nBelchen Tunnel, Switzerland. Sightings of an old woman dressed all in white who supposedly haunts the tunnel.\n\nBoy Scout Lane, Wisconsin, a dead-end road with no outlet. A number of ghost stories and urban legends have become associated with the road, including the fictional deaths of a troop of Boy Scouts. The area has been the subject of several paranormal investigations, and has been a 'haunt' for local youths. However, there are no records of fatalities or mysterious disappearances on or around Boy Scout Lane.\n\nBray Road of Elkhorn is infamously known for being the home of the Beast of Bray Road.\n\nClinton Road in West Milford, Passaic County, New Jersey, is the subject of local folklore that includes alleged sightings of ghosts, strange creatures and gatherings of witches, Satanists and the Ku Klux Klan. Supposedly, if you go to one of the bridges at the reservoir and throw a penny into the water, within a minute it will be thrown back out to or at you by the ghost of a boy who drowned while swimming below or had fallen in while sitting on the edge of the bridge. In some tellings an apparition is seen; in others the ghost pushes the teller into the water if he or she looks over the side of the bridge in order to save him.\n\nThe Devil's Washbowl road in Moretown, Vermont is connected to a tale of pig-human hybrid entity known as the \"Pigman\".\n\nAll these Connecticut roads are connected to legends of Melon Heads, Saw Mill and Velvet are commonly referred to by residents as \"Dracula Drive\".\n\nJamestown Road in Jamestown, Guilford County, North Carolina, is the subject of local folklore regarding a vanishing hitchhiker known as \"Lydia\".\n\nMount Misery Road and Sweet Hollow Road in Huntington, New York are both subjects of local folklore, including but not limited to tales of Mary's Grave (supposedly located on a cemetery on Sweet Hollow Road), a ghostly police officer with the back of his head missing, and ghosts from a burned down mental asylum.\n\nA616 road, also called Stockbridge Bypass, connects Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire, to the M1 motorway. During its construction, security staff allegedly reported encounters with a ghostly monk believed to have been from the Hunshelf Priory.\n\nAccording to legend, phantom hitchhikers have been reported since the 1950s on the A38 road between Wellington and Taunton in Somerset. One tale holds that in 1958 a lorry driver named \"Harry (or \"Harold\" in some tellings) Unsworth\" saw a hitchiker he'd given a ride to earlier re-appear miles down the road from where he'd dropped him off.\n\nA75 road - a major road in Scotland from Annan to Gretna Green has been called Scotland's \"most haunted road\" by some authors. According to one story, in 1957 a truck driver swerved to avoid a couple walking in the road but when he stopped to investigate the pair had \"vanished\". Other versions of the stories tell of a couple or group of friends driving down the road at night and are constantly plagued and harassed by shadow figures, from an elderly woman to the back end of a semi truck that they nearly hit before braking only for it to disappear.\n\nThe section of A3 motorway in Croatia between Staro Petrovo Selo and Nova Gradiška is believed to be haunted due to high number of accidents and paranormal encounters. It is a section where singer Toše Proeski and actress Dolores Lambaša lost their lives.\n\nThe E8 Expressway, also known as the Kuala Lumpur–Karak Expressway, is reportedly \"one of the most haunted highways in the world\", (though there has been no direct evidence of such manifestations). It is claimed that many people driving late at night see strange creatures, lost schoolboy, and Pontianak on this road. There is also sightings of a driverless yellow Volkswagen Beetle that appears from nowhere \n\nIn 2016, a ghost of woman was spotted in Rama IX Road in Bangkok. The footage was captured by photojournalist Powarit Katkul and went viral on social media.\n\nTuen Mun Road, is reportedly one of most deadliest highway in Hong Kong, local said that the ghost caused by accidents that happened in the highway.\n\nA tunnel located in East Jakarta, Indonesia is one of most haunted tunnel in the country which become famous urban legend among locals, many locals believe the tunnel was once a Japanese era mass graves. Many locals reported saw a ghost of woman crossing the road causing drivers to crash.\n\nCikampek–Purwakarta–Padalarang Toll Road is a toll road in West Java province Indonesia, connecting Purwakarta Regency and Bandung. The accident are quite common the road between kilometer 70 and kilometer 100, especially in kilometer 97, the road known \"Jalan Tengkorak\" or Skull Road by locals\n\nN9 road (South Africa). The road between Uniondale and Willowmore, in the semi-desert area of the Karoo, is the subject of a story of the \"Uniondale Phantom Hitchhiker\", a girl named \"Marie Charlotte Roux\" who allegedly died in a road accident on a particular stretch of the N9 on April 12, 1968 (Good Friday).\n\nRanchi Jamshedpur National Highway 33 in Jharkhand is supposedly haunted because 245 people have died there since 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47386819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47386819", "title": "Hayabusa Terra", "text": "Hayabusa Terra\n\nHayabusa Terra is a surface feature on the dwarf planet Pluto. It was discovered by the \"New Horizons\" spacecraft in July 2015. It is named for \"Hayabusa\", the first spacecraft to successfully return a sample of an asteroid to Earth. The name has been officially approved by the International Astronomical Union on 7 September 2017.\n"}
{"id": "223179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223179", "title": "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2", "text": "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2\n\nISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes are two-letter country codes defined in ISO 3166-1, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), to represent countries, dependent territories, and special areas of geographical interest. They are the most widely used of the country codes published by ISO (the others being alpha-3 and numeric), and are used most prominently for the Internet's country code top-level domains (with a few exceptions). They are also used as country identifiers extending the postal code when appropriate within the international postal system for paper mail, and has replaced the previous one consisting one-letter codes. They were first included as part of the ISO 3166 standard in its first edition in 1974.\n\nThe ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes are used in different environments and are also part of other standards. In some cases they are not perfectly implemented.\n\nThe ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes are used in the following standards:\nStarting in 1985, ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes have been used in the Domain Name System as country code top-level domains (ccTLDs). The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority currently assigns the ccTLDs mostly following the alpha-2 codes, but with a few exceptions. For example, the United Kingdom, whose alpha-2 code is , uses .uk instead of .gb as its ccTLD, as is currently exceptionally reserved in ISO 3166-1 on the request of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe WIPO coding standard ST.3 is based on ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes, but includes a number of additional codes for international intellectual property organizations, which are currently reserved and not used at the present stage in ISO 3166-1.\n\nThe European Commission generally uses ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes with two exceptions: (not ) is used to represent Greece, and (not ) is used to represent the United Kingdom. This notwithstanding, the \"Official Journal of the European Communities\" specified that and be used to represent Greece and United Kingdom respectively. For VAT administration purposes, the European Commission uses and for Greece and the United Kingdom respectively.\n\nThe United Nations uses a combination of ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and alpha-3 codes, along with codes that pre-date the creation of ISO 3166, for international vehicle registration codes, which are codes used to identify the issuing country of a vehicle registration plate; some of these codes are currently indeterminately reserved in ISO 3166-1.\n\nIETF language tags (conforming to the BCP 47 standard track and maintained in an IANA registry) are also partially derived from ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes (for the region subtags). The full list of ISO 3166-1 codes assigned to countries and territories are usable as region subtags. Also, the \"exceptionally reserved\" alpha-2 codes defined in ISO 3166-1 (with the exception of ) are also usable as region subtags for language tags. However, newer stability policies (agreed with ISO) have been implemented to avoid deleting subtags that have been withdrawn in ISO 3166-1 ; instead they are kept and aliased to the new preferred subtags, or kept as subtags grouping several countries. Some other region grouping subtags are derived from other standards. Under the newer stability policies, old assigned codes that have been withdrawn from ISO 3166-1 should no longer be reassigned to another country or territory (as has occurred in the past for \"CS\").\n\nThe following is a colour-coded decoding table of all ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes.\n\nThe following is a complete list of the 249 current officially assigned ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes, with the following columns:\n\nUser-assigned code elements are codes at the disposal of users who need to add further names of countries, territories, or other geographical entities to their in-house application of ISO 3166-1, and the ISO 3166/MA will never use these codes in the updating process of the standard. The following alpha-2 codes can be user-assigned: , to , to , and . For example:\nFurthermore, the code element is designated as an escape code if the number of regular user-assigned code elements is not sufficient.\n\nReserved code elements are codes which have become obsolete, or are required in order to enable a particular user application of the standard but do not qualify for inclusion in ISO 3166-1. To avoid transitional application problems and to aid users who require specific additional code elements for the functioning of their coding systems, the ISO 3166/MA, when justified, reserves these codes which it undertakes not to use for other than specified purposes during a limited or indeterminate period of time. The reserved alpha-2 codes can be divided into the following four categories: exceptional reservations, transitional reservations, indeterminate reservations, and codes currently agreed not to use.\n\nExceptionally reserved code elements are codes reserved at the request of national ISO member bodies, governments and international organizations, which are required in order to support a particular application, as specified by the requesting body and limited to such use; any further use of such code elements is subject to approval by the ISO 3166/MA. The following alpha-2 codes are currently exceptionally reserved:\n\nThe following alpha-2 codes were previously exceptionally reserved, but are now officially assigned:\n\nTransitional reserved code elements are codes reserved after their deletion from ISO 3166-1. These codes may be used only during a transitional period of at least five years while new code elements that may have replaced them are taken into use. These codes may be reassigned by the ISO 3166/MA after the expiration of the transitional period. The following alpha-2 codes are currently transitionally reserved:\n\nThe following alpha-2 code was previously transitionally reserved, but was later reassigned to another country as its official code:\n\nFor each deleted alpha-2 code, an entry for the corresponding former country name is included in ISO 3166-3. Each entry is assigned a four-letter alphabetic code, where the first two letters are the deleted alpha-2 code.\n\nIndeterminately reserved code elements are codes used to designate road vehicles under the 1949 and 1968 United Nations Conventions on Road Traffic but differing from those contained in ISO 3166-1. These code elements are expected eventually to be either eliminated or replaced by code elements within ISO 3166-1. In the meantime, the ISO 3166/MA has reserved such code elements for an indeterminate period. Any use beyond the application of the two Conventions is discouraged and will not be approved by the ISO 3166/MA. Moreover, these codes may be reassigned by the ISO 3166/MA at any time. The following alpha-2 codes are currently indeterminately reserved:\n\nThe following alpha-2 codes were previously indeterminately reserved, but have been reassigned to another country as its official code:\n\nIn addition, the ISO 3166/MA will not use the following alpha-2 codes at the present stage, as they are used for international intellectual property organizations in WIPO Standard ST.3:\n\nWIPO Standard ST.3 actually uses , instead of , to represent the Eurasian Patent Organization. However, was already exceptionally reserved by the ISO 3166/MA to represent Ceuta and Melilla for customs purposes. The ISO 3166/MA proposed in 1995 that be used by WIPO to represent the Eurasian Patent Organization; however, this request was not honoured by WIPO.\n\nBesides the codes currently transitionally reserved and two other codes currently exceptionally reserved ( for France, Metropolitan and for USSR), the following alpha-2 codes have also been deleted from ISO 3166-1:\n\nFor each deleted alpha-2 code, an entry for the corresponding former country name is included in ISO 3166-3. Each entry is assigned a four-letter alphabetic code, where the first two letters are the deleted alpha-2 code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13772790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13772790", "title": "ISO 3166-2:GW", "text": "ISO 3166-2:GW\n\nISO 3166-2:GW is the entry for Guinea-Bissau in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Guinea-Bissau, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for two levels of subdivisions:\n\nThe autonomous sector Bissau is the capital of the country and has special status equal to the regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Guinea-Bissau. The second part is either of the following:\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1453080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1453080", "title": "Irish Hunger Memorial", "text": "Irish Hunger Memorial\n\nThe Irish Hunger Memorial is a park at the corner of Vesey Street and North End Avenue in the Battery Park City neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City — dedicated to raising awareness of the Great Irish Famine, referred to as \"An Gorta Mór\" in Irish or \"The Great Hunger\" in English, in which over one million starved to death between 1845 and 1852.\n\nConstruction of the memorial began in March 2001, and despite the September 11 attacks on the nearby World Trade Center, which also affected surrounding areas, the memorial was completed and dedicated on July 16, 2002.\n\nThe memorial, designed collaboratively by artist Brian Tolle, landscape architect Gail Wittwer-Laird, and architecture firm 1100 Architect, is landscaped with stones, soil, and native vegetation transported from the western coast of Ireland — with stones from all counties of Ireland.\n\nAn authentic Irish cottage from 19th century from Carradoogan in the parish of Attymass in County Mayo belonged to the Slack family — and was deserted in the 1960s. The Slack family donated the cottage to the memorial in \"memory of all the Slack family members of previous generations who emigrated to America and fared well there.\"\n\nIn August 2016, the memorial was temporarily closed for waterproofing work. It reopened in August 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39289449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39289449", "title": "Journal of South American Earth Sciences", "text": "Journal of South American Earth Sciences\n\nThe Journal of South American Earth Sciences is a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Elsevier. It covers the earth sciences, primarily on issues that are relevant to South America, Central America, the Caribbean, Mexico, and Antarctica. The journal was established in 1988 and the editor-in-chief is James Kellogg (University of South Carolina). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 1.533.\n\n"}
{"id": "41654654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41654654", "title": "List of accolades received by Frozen (2013 film)", "text": "List of accolades received by Frozen (2013 film)\n\n\"Frozen\" is a 2013 American 3D computer-animated film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It was directed by Chris Buck and Jennifer Lee, the latter of whom also wrote the screenplay, and was produced by Peter Del Vecho. The film focuses on Anna, a princess who sets off on a journey to find her estranged sister, Elsa, whose icy powers have inadvertently trapped their kingdom in eternal winter.\n\nThe film premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood, California, on November 19, 2013, before going into wide release on November 27 in over 3,700 theatres in the United States and Canada. It debuted in second place, earning more than $67 million. The film grossed a worldwide total of over $1.27 billion on a production budget of $150 million. , \"Frozen\" is the highest-grossing animated film of all time, and was the highest-grossing film of 2013. Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, surveyed 227 reviews, and judged 89 percent to be positive.\n\n\"Frozen\" garnered a variety of awards and nominations, many of them in the Best Original Song (for \"Let It Go\") and Best Animated Feature categories. At the 71st Golden Globe Awards, the film earned two nominations, winning for Best Animated Feature Film. At the 41st Annie Awards, \"Frozen\" joint-led the nominations with \"Monsters University\", both earning ten nominations. The film went on to win five Annie Awards, including Best Animated Feature. At the 86th Academy Awards, \"Frozen\" became the first film by Walt Disney Animation Studios to win the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, and won the Best Original Song award for \"Let It Go\". \"Frozen\" also won the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film and the Critics' Choice Movie Award for both Best Animated Feature and Best Song. At the 57th Annual Grammy Awards, the \"Frozen\" soundtrack won the award for Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and \"Let It Go\" won the award for Best Song Written for Visual Media. The film's visual effects were acclaimed by the Visual Effects Society, which gave the film awards in all four of its animated film categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28874082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28874082", "title": "List of former Hollywood Records artists", "text": "List of former Hollywood Records artists\n\nThis is a list of former artists who have recorded for American record label Hollywood Records.\n\nListed in parentheses are names of Hollywood Records-affiliated labels to which the artist may be signed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50609036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50609036", "title": "List of geographical bottoms", "text": "List of geographical bottoms\n\nBottom is used in the name of several geographical features:\n\n\nA number of valleys or low-lying areas are described as bottoms, as are their associated settlements:\n\n"}
{"id": "28141963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28141963", "title": "List of predecessors of sovereign states in South America", "text": "List of predecessors of sovereign states in South America\n\nThis is a list of all present sovereign states in South America and their predecessors. The division between North and South America is unclear, generally viewed as lying somewhere in the Isthmus of Panama, however, the whole of Panama is considered to be part of North America as its southernmost nation. The continent was colonized by the Europeans: First by the Spaniards, and the Portuguese; and later by the Dutch, the French, and the English. Most of the present-day nations gained independence in the early 19th century. Today, South America consists of twelve sovereign states with common government system being some form of presidential republic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2928969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2928969", "title": "Mugello", "text": "Mugello\n\nThe Mugello is a historic region and valley in northern Tuscany, in Italy, corresponding to the course of the River Sieve. It is located to the north of the city of Florence and includes the northernmost portion of the Metropolitan City of Florence. The Futa Pass connects the Mugello valley to the separate Santerno river valley.\n\nThe Mugello valley was settled by a Ligurian tribe known as the Magelli, hence the name. Then the region was occupied by the Etruscans who have left many archeological traces and who built the first road network of the Mugello.\n\nThe subsequent Ancient Roman conquest and colonization of the Mugello region dates back to the 4th century BCE. It is not only testified by several finds such as tombs, coins, and walls, but also, through toponymy, e.g. names of places ending with the praedial suffix \"-ano\" (Latin \"-anus\") or \"-ana\": Cerliano, Figliano, Marcoiano, Galliano, Lucignano, etc.\n\nIn the Middle Ages the Mugello was home to numerous castles. The Mugello region was later acquired by the Republic of Florence. Several patrician families of the area built villas here, such as those of the Medici including Villa Medicea di Cafaggiolo and Villa Medicea del Trebbio.\nIn 1999 a dam was constructed across the Sieve river, forming the reservoir of Lake Bilancino in the Mugello valley.\n\nThe Mugello gives its name to the Mugello Circuit (), an automobile race track that hosts an annual Moto GP event and to the Mugellese chicken a Bantam breed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34593466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593466", "title": "Musadi", "text": "Musadi\n\nMusadi is a commune of the city of Mwene-Ditu in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "42286356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42286356", "title": "National Wilderness Conference", "text": "National Wilderness Conference\n\nThe 50th Anniversary National Wilderness Conference is the culminating commemorative event for the 50th anniversary of the Wilderness Act. The conference was held in Albuquerque, NM, from October 15-19, 2014.\n\nThis conference is a multi-day event including presentations, panel discussions, exhibits, field trips, and skill-development workshops. The conference will provide ample opportunity to network and share ideas, celebrate recent successes, share lessons learned, and discuss emerging challenges in wilderness stewardship. Conference tracks will include history, stewardship, education, experience, civic engagement, and science.\n\nThe conference is convened to provide a forum for discussing growing challenges to wilderness values while deepening and enabling participants’ engagement in wilderness stewardship in a time of unprecedented environmental and social change; meanwhile, it also aims to honor the achievement of a half-century of permanent protection for America’s wild places under the Wilderness Act.\n\nThe National Wilderness Conference was produced by the Wilderness50, a diverse coalition of non-profit organizations, government agencies, and academic institutions—including the Pew Charitable Trusts, Wilderness Society, Sierra Club, Back Country Horsemen of America, Leave No Trace Center for Outdoor Ethics, Conservation Lands Foundation, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, Forest Service, and National Park Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "24651645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24651645", "title": "Nigretta Falls", "text": "Nigretta Falls\n\nThe Nigretta Falls, previously known as the Upper Wannon Falls, are waterfalls located in the Southern Grampians Shire, approximately west of Hamilton, Victoria, Australia. The falls are fed by the Wannon River that has its head waters in the Grampians mountains. \n\nThe falls tumble over many rocky outcrops creating several streams of falling water and then drop into a large pool at the base before continuing its journey to the Wannon Falls some downstream. In contrast to the single plunge of the Wannon Falls, Nigretta is a more interesting, multi-channel segmented cascade of smaller drops and bounces guided by patterns of joints in a much older (Devonian) rhyolitic volcanic rock. However, as with the Wannon Falls, the amount of water varies with the time of year - the photo shows a late winter, wet season, view. The Nigretta Scenic Reserve includes parts of the Wannon River Valley which contains representatives of the native plants of the Dundas Tablelands, listed in the reference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24624564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24624564", "title": "Postal codes in Taiwan", "text": "Postal codes in Taiwan\n\nPostal codes () in Taiwan is a system of three + two digits used by Chunghwa Post. There are 368 sets of three-digit codes for townships, county-controlled cities, and districts in Taiwan.\n\nThe cities of Chiayi and Hsinchu have a single code covering all their districts. The uninhabited Taiwanese-controlled islands in the groups of Dongsha (Pratas) and Nansha (Spratly) each have a single code. The uninhabited Diaoyutai (Senkaku) (currently controlled by Japan) have a code, but there are no deliveries. \n\nOmitting the supplementary two digits is ordinarily acceptable, but using a five-digit code will speed the delivery of the mail.\n\nThe first digit is for a large postal zone:\nBelow is the list of postal codes in Taiwan.\n\nOf the disputed territories, it is practically possible to send mail to Dongsha Island within the Dongsha Islands (817) and Taiping Island, the largest island of the Spratly Islands (819), as those are above sea level and controlled by Taiwan. There is no mail delivery to the Diaoyutai Islands (290), as they are controlled by Japan and have been uninhabited for many decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18919338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18919338", "title": "Qaradağlı, Khojavend", "text": "Qaradağlı, Khojavend\n\nQaradağlı (also, Gharadaghlou, Karadagly, and Varanda ) is a village in the Republic of Artsakh.\n\n"}
{"id": "52980059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52980059", "title": "Robert Bingham (glaciologist)", "text": "Robert Bingham (glaciologist)\n\nRobert Bingham is a reader in glaciology and geophysics at the University of Edinburgh. His research focuses on using geophysical, remote sensing, and modelling techniques to understand modern glacial change and processes, and on understanding the landforms left behind by retreating Northern Hemisphere glaciers at the end of the Last Glacial Maximum.\n\nHe is a winner of the Polar Medal, an award given to British citizens in recognition of acquisition of knowledge about polar regions, and who have undertaken polar expeditions in extreme hardship.\n"}
{"id": "32529897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32529897", "title": "Rule of marteloio", "text": "Rule of marteloio\n\nThe rule of marteloio is a medieval technique of navigational computation that uses compass direction, distance and a simple trigonometric table known as the toleta de marteloio. The rule told mariners how to plot the traverse between two different navigation courses by means of resolving triangles with the help of the \"Toleta\" and basic arithmetic.\n\nThose uncomfortable with manipulating numbers could resort to the visual tondo e quadro (circle-and-square) and achieve their answer with dividers. The rule of marteloio was commonly used by Mediterranean navigators during the 14th and 15th centuries, before the development of astronomical navigation.\n\nThe etymology comes from the Venetian language. In his 1436 atlas, Venetian captain and cartographer Andrea Bianco introduced a table of numbers which he called the \"toleta de marteloio\" (\"table of marteloio\"), and the method of using it as the \"raxon de marteloio\" (\"reason of marteloio\").\n\nThe meaning of \"marteloio\" itself is uncertain. The most widely accepted hypothesis, first forwarded by A.E. Nordenskiöld, is that \"marteloio\" relates to \"hammer\" (\"martelo\" in Venetian), referring to the small hammer that was used to hit the on-board ship's bell to mark the passage of time. It has been suggested that the -\"oio\" suffix implies that \"marteloio\" meant not quite the hammer itself nor the hammerer, but rather \"the hammering\", intending to indicate \"the hammering, the din, the racket\" from the change of the watch every four hours. As there were many hands on deck during a change of the watch, it would be an opportune moment for the ship's pilot to order a change in bearing (if necessary).\n\nAlternative hypotheses (not nearly as accepted) are that \"marteloio\" is a corruption of \"mari logio\" (meaning \"rule of the sea\"), or from \"mare tela\" (meaning \"sea network\"), or that it derives from the Greek \"homartologium\" (\"όμαρτόλογίον\", meaning \"companion piece\"), or from the Greek \"imeralogium\" (\"ήμερόλογίον\", meaning \"daily calculation\") or that it might be from the northern French \"matelot\", which in turn comes from Breton \"martolod\" (meaning \"sailors\").\n\nThe \"rule of marteloio\" was used in European navigation in the Middle Ages, most notably in the Mediterranean Sea between the 14th and 16th centuries, although it may have older roots. It was an integral part of navigation by \"compass and chart\", before the advent of geographical coordinates and the development of celestial navigation in Europe.\n\nMedieval navigation relied on two parameters, direction and distance. On board ship, direction was determined by the mariner's compass (which emerged around 1300). Distance was measured by dead reckoning, (\"i.e.\", distance = speed × time), where time was measured by a half-hour-glass, and speed readings were taken with by some form of a chip log (the archaic method, used in the 14th and 15th centuries, involved heaving a piece of wood or flotsam overboard; the crew engaged in a rhythmic chant to mark the time it took for the chip to float past the length of the ship).\nPlotting a course required knowing the compass direction and distance between point A and point B. Knowledge of where ports lay relative to each other was acquired by navigators by long experience at sea. This information was sometimes collected and written down in a pilot's handbook, known as a \"portolano\" (\"port book\", in Italian, equivalent to the Greek \"periplus\", the Portuguese \"roteiro\" and the English \"rutter\"). These handbooks were used to construct a class of nautical maps known as portolan charts. Portolan charts began being produced in Genoa in the late 13th century, and soon spread to Venice and Majorca. Portolan charts were not gridded by longitude and latitude lines, but rather by a web of compass rhumb lines, giving mariners an idea of only the distance and direction between places.\nBy a handbook or a portolan chart, a navigator could see immediately that, for example, Pisa lay 85 miles southeast (\"Scirocco\" in the traditional compass rose nomenclature) of Genoa, and so a ship that set out from Genoa to Pisa would simply maintain that bearing for that distance. However, most sailing courses were not nearly that neat. A mariner wishing to sail from Majorca to Naples could tell the latter was due east (\"Levante\") by some 600 miles – but the island of Sardinia lies in the way, therefore the ship's bearing must be changed along the route. This is easier said than done, as geographical coordinates did not exist during this era. The only way to determine the exact position of the ship at sea would be to calculate via past bearing and distance travelled.\n\nIslands were a predictable obstacle – circumventing Sardinia would be simply a matter of sailing southeast for a set distance then changing the bearing to northeast (\"Greco\") for the remainder. More problematic is if the ship were blown off its intended route by fitful winds, or had to engage in tacking, changing bearing repeatedly. How does it return to its intended course? This is where the rule of marteloio came in.\n\nThe rule of marteloio addressed the problem of changing bearing at sea. More specifically, it helped a navigator plot the traverse from one navigational course to another. For example, suppose a ship was to sail from Corsica to Genoa, a course bearing straight north (\"Tramontana\") for some 130 miles. But the winds are not cooperative, and the ship was forced to sail northwest (\"Maestro\") for some 70 miles. How does it return to its original route? Re-setting its bearing to northeast (\"Greco\") seems sensible enough, but how long should it sail on that bearing? How would a navigator know when the ship had reached its old route and should turn north again? How to avoid overshooting or undershooting the old course?\nThis is a mathematical problem of solving a triangle. If a navigator knows how long the ship has sailed on the erroneous course, he can calculate its current distance from its intended course, and estimate how long it must sail back on a new bearing until it recovers its old course. In the Corsica-to-Genoa example, there is an implied triangle \"ACD\", with one side given (\"AC\" = 70 miles on actual NW course), a 45° angle at \"A\" (angle of difference between actual course NW and intended course N) and another angle of 90° at \"C\" (angle of difference between actual course NW and return course NE). The challenge to the navigator is to find how long one must sail on the NE return course (the length of side \"CD\", what is called the \"ritorno\") and how far one has advanced on the intended course by the time one straightens out (the length of the hypotenuse \"AD\", or what is called the total \"avanzo\").\n\nThis is elementary trigonometry, solving for two sides given one side (70) and two angles (45° and 90°). This is quickly done by applying the law of sines:\n\nyielding up the solutions \"ritorno\" = 70 miles and total \"avanzo\" = 98.99 miles. This means that if the ship bears NE from its current position (\"C\"), it will reach its original intended course after 70 miles of sailing on the NE bearing. By the time it reaches its junction point (\"D\"), it will have covered 98.99 miles of its original intended course. There it can straighten its bearing N and sail the remaining 30 miles or so to Genoa.\n\nUnfortunately, Medieval sailors with the rudimentary educational levels of the 14th and 15th centuries, were not likely to know the Law of Sines or manipulate it with ease. As a result, Medieval navigators needed simpler and more accessible method of calculation.\n\nThe scholar-cleric Ramon Llull of Majorca, was the first writer to refer to a rule to solve the traverse problem of navigation. In his \"Arbor Scientiae\" (1295), in the section of questions on geometry, Llul writes:\n\nWhat Llull seems to be trying to explain is that a ship actually sailing E, but intending to sail SE, it can figure out how much of its intended southeastward distance it has already made good – what Italians called the \"\"avanzar\", but Lull seems to call the \"miliaria in mari\"\". Llull does not explain exactly how, but refers only to an \"instrument\", presumably some sort of trigonometric table. Lull is implying that mariners can calculate the \"miliaria\" on the intended course by multiplying the distance actually sailed on the erroneous course by the cosine of the angle between the two routes.\n\nwhere \"θ\" is the angle of difference between the two routes.\n\nUsing Lull's example, a ship that intended to sail southeast (\"Exaloch\" is Catalan for \"Scirocco\") but was instead forced to sail east (\"Levant\"), then the angle of difference is \"θ\" = 45°. After 100 miles on the erroneous route, the \"miliaria\" on the intended route is 100 × cos 45° = 70.71. Doubling the sailing on the erroneous route to 200 miles will double the \"miliaria\" on the intended route to 141.42 miles (= 200 cos 45°).\n\n(Diagramatically, Lull's \"miliaria in mari\" is measured by constructing a right-angled triangle by running a cord from the distance sailed on the actual course to the intended course, meeting the latter at a 90° angle).\n\nLlull is a little more explicit in his \"Ars magna generalis et ultima\" (written c. 1305). Reversing his example, with a ship actually sailing Southeast but intending to sail East, Llull notes that for every four miles on the southeast bearing, it \"gains three miles\" (2.83 actually) on the intended eastward route. Thus, Lull notes, the ship \"loses 25 miles\" (29 actually) of its intended course for every 100 miles it sails on the current course.\n\nNotice that in his passages, Ramon Lull is not recommending the rule, but reporting it, insinuating that this rule was already known and used by contemporary sailors in practice. This is perhaps unsurprising – although trigonometry was only in its infancy in Christian Europe, sine and cosine tables were already known in Arab mathematics. The Kingdom of Majorca, under Muslim rule until the 1230s, remained a multicultural center in Lull's time, with flourishing Jewish communities, many of whom dabbled in mathematics and astronomy, and whose seafarers had extensive contact across the Mediterranean Sea. That Majorcan navigators had some sort of trigonometric table at hand is not improbable. Nonetheless, the exact content and layout of this table implied by Ramon Llull in 1295 is uncertain.\n\nWe get our first glimpse of a mariner's trigonometric table more than a century after Llull. In the first folio of his 1436 portolan atlas, the Venetian captain Andrea Bianco explains the \"raxon de marteloio\", how to calculate the traverse and recover the course. He lays out a simple trigonometric table he calls the \"toleta de marteloio\" and recommends that mariners commit the table to memory.\n\nThe \"toleta de marteloio\" is set out as follows:\n\nThe numbers in the \"Toleta\" can be approximated by the modern formulas:\n\n\nwhere \"q\" = number of quarter winds (angle of difference expressed in number of quarter winds). (notice that the numbers work with quarter-winds set at 11.15° intervals, rather than 11.25°, the usual definition of a quarter wind).\n\nThe \"Toleta\" is a simple table with several columns of numbers. In the first column is the angle of difference between the actual and intended courses, expressed by number of quarter-winds. Once that difference is determined, the second column gives the \"Alargar\" (the \"Widening\", the current distance the ship is from the intended course) while the third column tells the \"Avanzar\" (the \"Advance\", how much of the distance on the intended course has already been covered by sailing on the current bearing – this is equivalent of Ramon Llull's \"miliaria di mari\"). The Alargar and Avanzar numbers are shown on the Bianco's table for 100 miles of sailing on the current course.\nExample: suppose a ship intended to sail bearing east (\"Levante\") from point A to point B. But suppose that winds forced it to sail on a southeast-by-east course (SEbE, \"Quarto di Scirocco verso Levante\"). Southeast-by-east is three quarter winds (or 33.75°) away from east (on a 32-point compass, in order of quarter-winds away from east, 1 quarter is east-by-south, 2 quarters is East-southeast, 3 quarters is southeast-by-east). That means that the navigator should consult the third row, \"q\" = 3, on the toleta.\n\nSuppose the ship sailed 100 miles on the SE-by-E bearing. To check his distance from the intended eastward course, the mariner will read the corresponding entry on the \"alargar\" column and immediately see he is 55 miles away from the intended course. The \"avanzar\" column informs him that having sailed 100 miles on the current SEbE course, he has covered 83 miles of the intended E course.\n\nThe next step is to determine how to return to the intended course. Continuing the example, to get back to the intended Eastward course, our mariner has to re-orient the ship's bearing in a northeasterly direction. But there are various northeasterly angles – NbE, NNE, NE, ENE, etc. The mariner has a choose the bearing – if he returns by a sharp angle (e.g. North by east), he will return to the intended course faster than at a more gentle gradient (e.g. East by north). Whichever angle he chooses, he must deduce exactly how long he must sail on that bearing in order to reach his old course. If he sails too long, he risks overshooting it.\n\nThis is what the third column of the toleta is for. The return angles are expressed as quarters from the \"intended\" course bearing (\"not\" the current course bearing). In our example, the mariner intended to go east, but has been sailing southeast-by-east for 100 miles. Given the winds, he decides it is best to return to the original course by re-orienting the ship east-northeast (ENE, \"Greco-Levante\"). ENE is two quarter-winds above the \"intended\" bearing, East, so now he looks at second row (\"quarters = 2\") on the table. In the third column, the \"ritorno\", shows the number 26. This represents the required number of miles he must travel on ENE bearing for every 10 miles of alargar. Remember, his alargar (distance from intended course) was 55 miles. So in order to return to his intended course he must travel 5.5 × 26 = 143 miles on ENE. In other words, he needs to hold his ENE bearing for 143 miles; once that distance is travelled, he should straighten his ship East, and he will be exactly on the intended course.\n\nThe final column (\"avanzo di ritorno\") gives the length on the intended course he has made good by his return travel. This is also expressed in terms per 10 miles alargar. His alargar was 55, and his angle of return was ENE (thus q = 2), that means his avanzo di ritorno is 5.5 × 24 = 132. In other words, if everything goes right, and our mariner holds his ENE bearing for 143 miles (\"ritorno\"), then during that return, he will have covered an additional 132 miles on his intended eastward course (\"avanzo di ritorno\").\n\nFinally, the total avanzo on the eastward bearing is the avanzar during the deviation (83 miles) plus the avanzo di ritorno (132 miles), thus on the whole, he has covered 83 + 132 = 215 miles on the intended course. Measuring that distance on the map from the starting point (\"A\"), the mariner can figure out his exact current position.\n\nThis is the simplest use of the toleta de marteloio. It is, at root, a trigonometric table. However, it does not tackle the traverse problem in one go, like the Law of Sines, but rather splits the problem into two right-angled triangles which it proceeds to solve successively. Modern trigonometry would dispense with the step of calculating the alargar, and calculate the ritorno directly – but for that, one needs to be armed with a full sine table. The toleta is a rather simple table, easy to consult and perform calculations with, and sufficiently compact to be memorized by navigators (as Bianco recommends).\n\nThe \"toleta de marteloio\" is expressed for nice round numbers, 100 and 10. But, in practice, a ship would not usually sail 100 miles before trying to return, but some other distance, say 65 miles. To calculate this is a simple problem of solving ratios. For example, if the ship had sailed 65 miles on southeast-by-east, then calculating the alargar from the intended Eastward course is simply a matter of solving the following for :\n\nwhere 26 is the alargar for 100 miles (as given in the second column of the table). This is easily done by the simple \"Rule of Three\", a method of cross-multiplication, using three numbers to solve for the fourth by successive multiplication and division:\n\nSo, sailing for 65 miles on SE by E implies alargar = = 16.9 miles. The avanzar, etc. can be figured out analogously.\n\nWhile the \"rule of three\" was already known in the 14th century, skill in executing multiplication and division could be elusive for Medieval sailors drawn from what was a largely illiterate society. Nonetheless, it was not inaccessible. As Andrea Bianco urged, navigators should \"know how to multiply well and divide well\" (\"saver ben moltiplichar e ben partir\") It is here where we see the important interface of commerce and navigation. The mathematics of commerce – Arabic numerals, multiplication, division, fractions, the tools needed to calculate purchases and sales of goods and other commercial transactions – was essentially the same as the mathematics of navigation. And this kind of mathematics was taught at the abacus schools which were set up in the 13th century in the commercial centers of northern Italy to train the sons of merchants, the very same class where Italian navigators were drawn from. As historian E.G.R. Taylor notes, \"sailors were the first professional group to use mathematics in their everyday work\"\n\nFor those troubled by the high art of manipulating numbers, there was an alternative. This was the visual device known as the \"circle and square\" (\"tondo e quadro\"), also supplied by Andrea Bianco in his 1436 atlas.\n\nThe circle was a 32-wind compass rose (or gathering of rhumb-lines). The circle was inscribed with an 8 × 8 square grid.\n\nThe compass rose in the center can be overlooked – indeed, the circle itself can be ignored, as it is seems to have no other purpose than the construction of the rays that run across the grid. The rose of interest is in the upper left corner of the square grid. From that corner, emanate a series of compass rhumb lines. In his original 1436 \"tondo e quadro\", Bianco has sixteen emanating rays – that is, Bianco includes half-quarter winds, or eighth-winds (\"otava\"), so that the emanating rays are at intervals of 5.625 degrees. Other constructions of the circle-and-square, e.g. the Cornaro Atlas, use only eight rays emanating at quarter-wind distances (11.25 degrees). Visually, these rays replicate the bottom right quarter of a 32-wind compass rose: East (0q), E by S (1q), ESE (2q), SE by E (3q), SE (4q), SE by S (5q), SSE (6q), S by E (7q) and South (8q).\nAbove the grid is a distance bar scale, notched with sub-units. There are two sets of numbers on the scale, one for measuring each grid square by 20 miles, another for measuring each grid square by 100 miles (see diagram). The top bar is the 20m-per-square scale, with every black dot denoting one mile. The bottom bar is the 100m-per-square scale, where the length of a unit square is divided into two equal 50m sub-squares, and a set of dots and red lines break it down further into lengths of 10 miles. So depending on which scale one chooses, the length of the side of the entire grid (eight squares) could be measured up to 160 miles (using the 20m-per-square scale) or up to 800 miles (using the 100m-per-square scale).\nThe cherub with the dividers suggests how a navigator is supposed to use the grid to calculate alargar and avanzar by visual measurement rather than manipulating numbers.\nExample: suppose the ship has travelled 120 miles at two quarter-winds below the intended course (e.g. traveled at ESE, when the intended course is East). Using the dividers and the 20m scale, the navigator can measure out 120 miles with his dividers. Then setting one end at the top left corner (\"A\"), he lays out the dividers along the ESE ray (= two quarter-winds below the East ray, or horizontal top of the grid) and marks the spot (point \"B\" on the diagram). Then using a straightedge ruler draws a line up to the East ray, and marks the corresponding spot \"C\".\n\nIt is easy to see immediately that a right-angled triangle \"ABC\" has been created. The length \"BC\" is the \"alargar\" (distance from intended course), which can be measured as 46 miles (this can be visually seen as two grid squares plus a bit, that is 20m + 20m and a little bit which can be assessed as 6m by using the dividers and the 20m bar scale). The length \"AC\" is the \"avanzar\" (distance made good), which is 111 miles – visually, five grid squares and a bit, or (20 × 5) + 11, measured by dividers and scale again.\n\nThis is how the \"circle and square\" dispenses manipulating numbers by multiplication and division or the rule of three. The navigator can assess the avanzar and alargar visually, by measurement alone.\n\nThis method can be used for any intended bearing and deviation, as the only purpose is to solve the triangle by dividers and scale. e.g. using our first Corsica-to-Genoa example, where intended bearing was North but the ship actually sailed Northwest, the navigator would set the dividers at length 70 miles and lay it along the fourth quarter wind (= SE ray in the \"tondo e quadro\", as NW is four quarter winds away from North). He would calculate the alargar and avanzar in exactly the same way – draw a line to the horizontal top of the grid, measure the squares, etc.\n\nThe \"tondo e quadro\" device is very similar to the Arab sine quadrant (\"Rubul mujayyab\"), with the corner rays replicating the role of the adjustable plumb line.\n\nWhile the \"toleta de marteloio\" (and its visual counterpart, the \"tondo e quadro\") are designed for the explicit task of recovering an intended course, they can be used in more ways, for many classes of navigational problems, e.g. plotting out a course with multiple-bearing changes, etc.\n\nOne of the interesting applications of the rule of marteloio is for triangulation, e.g. determining the distance of the ship from shore landmark. (This was the final exercise attempted in the notebook of the Venetian navigator Michael of Rhodes, which we replicate here.)\n\nExample: Suppose a ship sailing NW (\"Maestro\") spots a landmark due West (\"Ponente\") one evening, but distance unknown. Suppose the ship continues sailing on the NW route overnight, and the next morning, 40 miles later, it notices that landmark is now west-southwest (WSW, \"Ponente-Libeccio\") of its current position. Finding the distance of the landmark from the ship is just an application of the rule of marteloio.\nTo solve the problem, start from the evening position (\"A\" on the map) and treat the distance between the ship and the landmark (length \"AB\") as the intended course, and the actual route of the ship (NW) as a deviation. To figure out the distance of the landmark from the ship's position in the morning (\"C\") is a matter of treating the distance \"BC\" as the calculated ritorno. Since we need to know the alargar to calculate the ritorno, this is a two-step procedure.\n\nFirst, notice that NW is four quarter-winds above W, so looking up on the \"toleta\", in the q = 4 row, the \"alargar\" is 71 miles for every 100 miles on the NW course. But the ship only sailed 40 miles overnight, so we have to solve the ratio 71/100 = \"x\"/40, which by the rule of three means \"x\" = alargar = 28.4 miles. In other words, by the overnight sailing NW by 40 miles from A to C, the ship is now 28.4 miles away from its \"intended\" Westward course.\n\nNow for the ritorno. The landmark, as noted, is WSW of the ship's morning position (\"C\"). So to \"return\" to the landmark, the ship must change its bearing from its current NW bearing to a WSW bearing – that is, 6 quarter-winds below NW. However, the toleta specifies quarter winds in terms of \"intended\" direction (in this case, West), and WSW is two quarter winds below West, so we need to look at the q = 2 row. This means the ritorno is 26 miles for every 10 miles alargar. Since the alargar is 28.4, that means the ritorno is 26 × 2.84 = 73.84. And there we have it. The landmark is 73.84 miles away from the ship's morning position.\n\nThe rule of marteloio can also be used with the \"avanzar\" as a target, e.g. suppose a ship sets out with the intention of finding the Tordesillas Line, the meridian legally set in a 1494 treaty at 370 leagues west of Cape Verde. The ship need not set out from Cape Verde and set sail constantly at West bearing to find it. Rather, it can sail out at a more convenient bearing (e.g. SW), and treat West as an \"intended\" course. So using the marteloio rule, it can sail on until the \"avanzar\" on the \"intended\" West course reaches 370 leagues.\n\nIndeed, it need not even set out from Cape Verde, but can set out from another place, say, Seville, and use the known distance and bearing of Cape Verde (viz. Seville) and the rule of marteloio to calculate when it has finally reached the Tordesillas meridian. This takes a couple of steps. Suppose Cape Verde (\"B\" on map) is 400 leagues Southwest of Seville (\"A\" on map), but the ship intends to go straight West from Seville to reach the Tordesillas meridian in the open sea. How long does it need to sail?\nThe way to solve this by the rule of marteloio is to pose the problem in reverse: treat West as intended bearing and SW as the actual course. SW is four quarter-winds below W, so looking up the toleta for q = 4, the \"avanzar\" is 71 for every 100 miles sailed. So if a ship sailed 400 leagues on the \"actual\" SW course to Cape Verde, it would achieve an \"avanzar\" of 284 leagues (= 71 × 4) on the \"intended\" Westward course. Of course, the ship is not actually sailing SW to Cape Verde, but sailing W into the open sea. In other words, when the ship sets sail West from Seville, it knows it needs to sail 284 leagues on the West bearing before it reaches the implied Cape Verde meridian (point \"C\" on map), and should only start counting the 370 leagues to the Tordesillas line thereafter. In other words, it needs to sail a total of 284 + 370 = 654 leagues West of Seville to reach the Tordesillas line (point \"D\" on map).\n\nWhile this particular example shows the flexibility of the rule of marteloio, it also shows one of its principal drawbacks: the result completely ignores the curvature of the earth, i.e. the fact that the longitude meridian lines converge on the North Pole, and thus narrow at higher latitudes. Contrary to what the marteloio suggests, 370 leagues West of Cape Verde is \"not\" on the same longitude meridian as 654 leagues West of Seville. Because Seville is well north of Cape Verde, the meridians are clustered closer together at Seville's latitude than at Cape Verde's latitude. A ship sailing west of Seville will, in fact, reach the real Tordesillas meridian (point \"T\" on map) well before 654 leagues are sailed (point \"D\").\n\nThe rule of marteloio has sailors plot routes by drawing plane triangles on a chart, as if the world's surface were flat. While this might be practical enough for sailing confined to the compact latitudes of the Mediterranean Sea, it is quite misleading on a grander scale.\n\nIn the late 15th and 16th centuries, the improvement of nautical astronomy and the introduction of latitude parallels allowed navigators to determine their position at sea by celestial readings, rather than relying on estimation of distance sailed. The successor of the rule of marteloio was the \"Regiment of the Leagues\" (\"regimento das léguas\"), that was used by Portuguese navigators sailing in the Atlantic Ocean. Or, to use the term introduced by William Bourne (1571), the \"Rule to Raise or Lay a Degree\", also known as the \"Table of Leagues\" or the \"Rule for Raising the Pole\". It was first written down in the Portuguese navigation manual \"Regimento do astrolabio e do quadrante\" (published in Lisbon c. 1509, but written c. 1480) It was popularized by Martín Cortés de Albacar in his 1551 \"Breve compendio la esfera y del arte de navegar\".\n\nThe \"Regiment of the Leagues\" is not very different from the rule of marteloio. The Regiment of the Leagues always considers the west-east bearing as the \"intended course\" and measures set deviations from it. More specifically, the league table considers a fixed value of \"alargar\" – set at 1 latitude degree (or, in the measurements of the time, 17.5 (Portuguese) leagues, or equivalently 70 (Italian) miles). It then gives for every different quarter wind of sailing direction (always designated as quarters away from the north-south axis, rather than away from the intended course), the \"relevar\" and the \"afastar\". The \"relevar\" is the number of leagues on the actual course that a ship must sail in order to cover the pre-set 1 degree of latitude (17.5 leagues of \"alargar\" from the starting parallel). The \"afastar\" is merely the corresponding \"avanzar\" on the west-east bearing.\nExample: Suppose a ship sets out on an East-southeast (ESE) bearing. That is six quarter-winds above South (remember: unlike the marteloio, the Regiment of the Leagues always measures quarter-winds away from the north–south meridian). Looking at any regiment of the leagues table (e.g. Martín Cortés de Albacar, 1551), for \"q\" = 6, the table gives the \"relevar\" as 45 leagues and the \"afastar\" as 42 leagues. This means that a ship sailing on the ESE bearing will have to sail 45.73 leagues to cover one degree of latitude (17.5 leagues of \"alargar\" from the east bearing, to use the marteloio language), and the corresponding \"afastar\" (\"avanzar\" in marteloio terms) will be 42.25 leagues.\n\nIf, instead, the ship had set out on a SE bearing, that is four quarter-winds above South, the corresponding values of the Regiment of the Leagues table at \"q\" = 4 are \"relevar\" = 24 and the \"afastar\" = 17 .\n\nNotice that the SE bearing reaches the 1 degree alargar faster (i.e. smaller \"relevar\") than that the ESE bearing, and will have less \"afastar\" (closer to the N–S meridian).\n\nMathematically,\n\nwhere θ = 11.25 × number of quarters-winds away from the north-south axis.\n\nDespite the difference in terminology, notably the use of latitude degrees, the rule of marteloio and the Regiment of the Leagues are very similar – they are both about solving triangles on a plane chart. The advantage of the regiment over the marteloio is the introduction of latitude parallels in the table, so that the position can be checked by astronomical observation (via quadrant, astrolabe, etc.), and not have to rely wholly on sailor estimations of distance and direction.\n\nWith the regiment, geographical coordinates can also be used to guide navigation. For instance, the search for the Todesillas line (meridian 370 leagues west of Cape Verde) is much simplified by reference to a precise latitude. For instance, suppose two ships depart from Cape Verde (17° N), one on a West by North bearing (WbN, that is one quarter above West, or \"q\" = 7 from North axis), the other by a west-northwest bearing (WNW, two quarters above west, or \"q\" = 6 from the North axis). Using the Regiment of the Leagues, it is possible to calculate the precise latitudes when they will cross the Tordesillas meridian – simply divide 370 leagues west by the implied \"afastar\" at the different bearings. The WbN ship will reach the meridian when it achieves latitude 21° 21' N, while the WNW ship will reach it when it achieves latitude 29° N. So rather than counting leagues with hourglass and speed readings, the ships can just maintain bearing, and take periodic astronomical observations to assess their latitude.\n\nThe toleta de marteloio is ancestral to the modern \"traverse table\" used in more modern navigation. In the modern nomenclature, the \"traverse\" is the \"crooked path made by a ship when she sails in several successive directions\" and \"resolving the traverse\" is \"the method of finding a single course and distance which would bring a ship to the same place as two or more courses and distances\". In marteloio language, when \"resolving the traverse\", the known information given is the \"actual course\" and the \"ritorno\", while the unknowns are the \"intended bearing\" and \"total avanzo\".\n\nTraverse tables use three values for each of the crooked course segments – the \"Distance\" (Dist.), \"Difference of Latitude\" (D.Lat., movement along N–S axis) and the \"Departure\" (Dep., movement along E–W axis), the latter two calculated by the formulas:\n\nwhere \"θ\" is the angular difference of the course from the N–S axis if the values of \"θ\" are less than 45°; if, however, the angle exceeds 45°, then \"θ\" is expressed as the angle of difference from the E–W axis, and the formulas are flipped, i.e. the Difference of Latitude formula becomes the Departure, and the Departure formula is the Difference of Latitude). Or, even more simply, calculate \"θ\" as the angle of difference from the nearest principal wind (N, S, E, W), run the formulas and then place the larger number in the appropriate column (D.Lat. or Dep.).\n\nFor each course segment, the navigator inserts the relevant trio (Dist., D.Lat., Dep.) and can calculate the implied bearing from the beginning to the endpoint and the distance made good on that bearing. He then combines, by addition and subtraction, all the differences of latitude and departure, to get the overall difference of latitude and departure, and converts that back to overall bearing and distance made good.\n\nRamon Llull's suggestive 1295 remarks aside, the earliest known reference to \"marteloio\" is dated 1390, in the inventory of the estate of the mother of a certain Oberto Foglieto of Genoa, where an entry reads \"unum martelogium...item carta una pro navegando\". The first clear appearance and explanation is the 1436 atlas of Venetian captain Andrea Bianco. Other early manuscripts have since been found relating the rule of marteloio, include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40186516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40186516", "title": "Rulers of Mbundaland", "text": "Rulers of Mbundaland\n\nThe following is a complete list of rulers of the Mbunda Kingdom, established in the southeast of present-day Angola, covering Moxico and Cuando Cubango Provinces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28003526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28003526", "title": "Samoan plant names", "text": "Samoan plant names\n\nThese are some Samoan plant names in alphabetical order in the Samoan language and their corresponding descriptions in English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35428777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35428777", "title": "Siegfried Passarge", "text": "Siegfried Passarge\n\nOtto Karl Siegfried Passarge (28 November 1866 – 26 July 1958) was a German geographer from East Prussia.\n\nSiegfried Passarge was born in Königsberg, the son of travel writer . He attended Frederick College, and after graduation studied geography in Berlin and Jena. He also trained in medicine, and worked as a doctor during his military service.\n\nIn 1894 Passarge took part in an expedition to Adamawa, at the northern boundary of the former German colony of Cameroon. From 1896 to 1899 Passarge worked as a geologist and surveyor for the British West Charterland Company in South Africa, during which time he made extensive ethnographic studies of the Khoisan and Bantu. In 1901–1902 he took part in an expedition to the Orinoco, followed by travel in Algeria in 1906 and 1907. His travel memoirs record his experiences, including the violences he committed whilst in Africa. \n\nFrom 1904–1905 Passarge held the post of Associate Professor of Geography in Berlin and in 1905 he became Professor of Geography in Breslau. In 1908 he joined the Colonial Institute in Hamburg, where he worked until 1936. He theorised that it should be possible for geographers to set up a taxonomic system for landforms, in much the same way as the biological sciences, although he favoured an empirical, descriptive system rather than a genetic one.\n\nPassarge's theories of racial geography (expounded in the 1920s in \"Das Judentum als landschaftskundlich-ethnologisches Problem\") were embraced by the Nazi Party after 1933. On 11 November 1933 he was among the signatories of the commitment of the professors at German universities and colleges to Adolf Hitler and the Nazi state.\n\n"}
{"id": "55830918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55830918", "title": "São Nicolau, São Tomé and Príncipe", "text": "São Nicolau, São Tomé and Príncipe\n\nSão Nicolau is a village in the central part of São Tomé Island in São Tomé and Príncipe. Its population is 118 (2012 census). It lies in a mountainous area, 3 km southwest of Monte Café.\n"}
{"id": "20849579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20849579", "title": "The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management", "text": "The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management\n\nThe Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management is a 2007 book by Pat Hutchings, Mike Kingsford and Ove Hoegh-Guldberg. It describes the organisms and ecosystems of Australia's Great Barrier Reef, and the biological, chemical and physical processes that influence them. Issues discussed include climate change, coral bleaching, coral disease and coral reef fishing. The book includes a field guide to help people identify the common animals and plants on the reef. The book has illustrations and contributions from 33 international experts.\n\nPat Hutchings is a senior principal research scientist at the Australian Museum. Michael Kingsford is the head of school of Marine Biology and Aquaculture at James Cook University. Ove Hoegh-Guldberg is the director of the Centre for Marine Studies at the University of Queensland.\n"}
{"id": "53711936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53711936", "title": "Tiantishan Caves", "text": "Tiantishan Caves\n\nThe Tiantishan Caves () are a series of rock cut Buddhist cave temples in the Liangzhou District of Wuwei, Gansu, northwest China. Excavated from the eastern cliffs of the Huangyang River (黃羊河) in the Qilian Mountains from the time of the Northern Liang, carving, decoration and subsequent modification of the caves continued through the Northern Wei and Tang to the Qing dynasty. The complex is identified with the Liangzhou Caves opened during the time of Juqu Mengxun \"one hundred li to the south of Liangzhou\", as recorded in the \"Spring and Autumn Annals of the Sixteen Kingdoms\" and \"Fayuan Zhulin\". The name Tiantishan consists of three Chinese characters () that literally translate as \"Ladder to Heaven Mountain\".\n\nThe Tang monk Daoxuan in his \"Ji shenzhou sanbao gantong lu\" ascribes the opening of Tiantishan to the Xiongnu king of Northern Liang Juqu Mengxun's devotion to \"meritorious deeds\" alongside his desire to avoid the impermanence of the city by fashioning caves from the mountains. Contrary to the account in the \"Wei Shu\" of monks and Buddhist teachers relocating to the east after the conquest of the Northern Liang by the Northern Wei and subsequent persecution, structural, iconographic, and stylistic analysis shows that activity at the site continued. A total of nineteen caves in three tiers have been identified:\n\nTiantishan disappeared from the historical record after the Tang dynasty. While decoration and modification of the caves continued into the Qing dynasty, five suffered from collapse over the centuries, exacerbated by an earthquake in 1927. Despite initial survey in the early 1950s demonstrating the importance of the site, in April 1959 the Gansu provincial government approved the construction of a reservoir that would flood two of the three tiers of caves when commissioned in May the following year. In the interval, a research team from the Dunhuang Academy and Gansu Provincial Museum documented the site and excavated the collapsed caves, although all the written records and colour photographs and most of the black-and-white photographs have since been lost, along with most of the copies of the wall paintings. Some of the paintings were detached, although the colours have since \"faded after 40 years of natural weathering\", and other than for the largest, most of the sculptures were taken down and removed to the Museum. In 2001, in recognition of their significance as one of the earliest Buddhist grotto sites in the country, the Tiantishan Caves were designated a Major Historical and Cultural Site Protected at the National Level by SACH.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47945189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47945189", "title": "Timeline of Geneva", "text": "Timeline of Geneva\n\nThe following is a of the history of the municipality of Geneva, Switzerland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"This article incorporates information from the French Wikipedia and German Wikipedia.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55090588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55090588", "title": "Tupo (crater)", "text": "Tupo (crater)\n\nTupo is a large crater in the middle of the southern hemisphere of the dwarf planet Ceres, located at 32.35° S, 88.38° E. It has a diameter of 37 km. The crater is named after an obscure Mangarevan god of disorder (perhaps the same as Tu or Tupa), involved in turmeric planting It was officially named by the IAU on July 3, 2015.\n\nNearby prominent craters are Tafakula and the tiny Braciaca to the north, the gigantic Kerwan towards the east-center part of Ceres in Vendimia Planitia, Chaminuka further southeast and Darzamat to the southwest. Due west of Tupo is a hill feature known as Niman Rupes.\n"}
{"id": "6169303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6169303", "title": "Water column", "text": "Water column\n\nA water column is a conceptual column of water from the surface of a sea, river or lake to the bottom sediment. Descriptively, the deep sea water column is divided into five parts—\"pelagic zones\" (from Greek πέλαγος (pélagos), 'open sea')—from the surface to below the floor, as follows: \"epipelagic\", from the surface to 200 meters below the surface; \"mesopelagic\", from 200 to 1000 meters below the surface; \"bathypelagic\", from 1000 to 4000 meters below the surface; \"abyssopelagic\", from 4000 meters below the surface to the level sea floor; \"hadopelagic\", depressions and crevices below the level sea floor.\n\nThe concept of water column is useful since many aquatic phenomena are explained by the incomplete vertical mixing of chemical, physical or biological parameters. For example, when studying the metabolism of benthic organisms, it is the specific bottom layer concentration of available chemicals in the water column that is meaningful, rather than the average value of those chemicals throughout the water column. \n\nWater columns are used chiefly for environmental studies evaluating the stratification or mixing of the thermal or chemically stratified layers in a lake, stream or ocean: for example, by wind-induced currents. Some of the common parameters analyzed in the water column are pH, turbidity, temperature, hydrostatic pressure, salinity, total dissolved solids, various pesticides, pathogens and a wide variety of chemicals and biota.\n\nThe term \"water column\" is also commonly used in scuba diving to describe the vertical space through which divers ascend and descend.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3546854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3546854", "title": "Willapa Hills", "text": "Willapa Hills\n\nThe Willapa Hills is a geologic, physiographic, and geographic region in southwest Washington. When described as a physiographical province, the Willapa Hills are bounded by the Pacific Ocean to the west, the Columbia River to the south, the Olympic Mountains to the north, and the Cascade Range to the east. Some definitions place the Puget Lowland physiographic province east of the Willapa Hills. Included within the province are the Black Hills, the Doty Hills, and a number of broad river valleys, some of which open up into broad estuaries on the Pacific such as Grays Harbor and Willapa Bay. Other definitions do not include the Black Hills. The USGS GNIS defines the Willapa Hills as bounded by the Columbia River to the south and the Chehalis River to the north, without giving specific east and west bounds. The Willapa Hills are one of the Pacific Coast Ranges, which continue north as the Olympic Mountains and south, across the Columbia River, as the Oregon Coast Range.\n\nThe highest point is Boistfort Peak. The Willapa Hills are the lowest uplands in the entire Pacific Coast Range system. Almost all of the land is privately held and has been repeatedly logged. Only a few long corners remain with virgin forest. Alders less than twenty years old are typically harvested for pulp mills.\n\nThe Willapa Hills receive abundant rainfall and a number of rivers originate in the region, including the Chehalis River, Willapa River, North River, Bone River, Niawiakum River, Palix River, Bear River, Naselle River, Grays River, and Elochoman River, among others.\n"}
{"id": "58205374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58205374", "title": "Árvai", "text": "Árvai\n\nÁrvai or Árvay is a Hungarian habitational surname originally used for a person coming from the historical Árva County (14th century–1920), which today is divided between Slovakia and Poland. It may refer to:\n\n\n"}
