{"id": "507522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507522", "title": "Aggie Bonfire", "text": "Aggie Bonfire\n\nAggie Bonfire was a long-standing annual tradition at Texas A&M University as part of the college rivalry with the University of Texas at Austin. For 90 years, Texas A&M students—known as Aggies—built and burned a bonfire on campus each autumn. Known to the Aggie community simply as \"Bonfire\", the annual autumn event symbolized Aggie students' \"burning desire to beat the hell outta t.u.\", a derogatory nickname for the University of Texas. The bonfire was traditionally lit around Thanksgiving in conjunction with festivities surrounding the annual college football game. Although early bonfires were little more than piles of trash, as time passed the annual event became more organized. Over the years the bonfire grew to an immense size, setting the world record in 1969. In 1999, the Bonfire collapsed during construction, killing twelve people, eleven students and one former student, and injuring twenty-seven others. The accident led Texas A&M to declare a hiatus on an official Bonfire. However, since 2002, a student-sponsored coalition has constructed an annual unsanctioned, off-campus \"Student Bonfire\" in the spirit of its predecessor.\n\nThe students of the Agricultural and Mechanical College of Texas, known as Aggies, burned their first bonfire on November 18, 1907, to congratulate the football team on a recent win. The first on-campus Aggie Bonfire, a heap of trash and debris, was burned in 1909 to generate enthusiasm for a variety of sporting events. A decade later, the focus of the event narrowed to the annual rivalry game between Texas A&M and the University of Texas, held near Thanksgiving Day. Little information was recorded about the early Bonfires; the 1921 Texas A&M yearbook mentioned the \"final rally\" of the students before the game against Texas, but did not refer to a bonfire. Six years later, the school yearbook published a photograph of the event.\n\nFreshmen were expected to build the early Bonfires to help prove their worth. For almost two decades, the students constructed Bonfire from debris and wood acquired through various, sometimes illicit, means, including appropriating lumber intended for a dormitory in 1912. In 1935, a farmer reported that students carried off his entire barn as fuel for Bonfire. To prevent future incidents, the university made Bonfire a school-sanctioned event. The following year, for the first time, the school provided axes, saws, and trucks for the students and pointed them toward a grove of dead trees on the edge of town.\n\nDuring the 1940s, the school paper described Bonfire as \"the greatest event of the football season\". The 1947 Corps handbook stated that \"bonfire symbolizes two things: a burning desire to beat the team from the University of Texas, and the undying flame of love that every loyal Aggie carries in his heart for the school\"; this was often shortened to \"the burning desire to beat the hell out of t.u.\"\nThe Bonfire design changed in 1942. Universal Studios, filming the movie \"We've Never Been Licked\" on the Texas A&M Campus, built a bonfire as a prop for the movie. Their structure used a design similar to a teepee, where all the logs rested against each other in a conical shape. The logs were placed at an angle between 23 and 30 degrees, giving it \"a tremendous vertical and horizontal resistance\". This allowed Bonfire to grow from tall to over tall. Subsequent Aggies adopted the new idea, and the teepee design became standard for Bonfires for the next twenty-five years.\nBeginning in 1952, the bonfires were constructed entirely from fresh-cut logs. The event suffered its first fatality in 1955, when a student was struck by a swerving car. For unrelated reasons, that same year the Bonfire was moved from Simpson Drill Field in front of the Memorial Student Center to Duncan Field, near the dorms of the Corps of Cadets (whose leaders oversaw construction). In 1957, the structure collapsed two days before Bonfire was to be held, but students worked around-the-clock to rebuild it, and the bonfire burned as scheduled.\n\nDuring this period, University of Texas students attempted several stunts, trying to light the stack early, but to no avail. In both 1933 and 1948, students from UT rented an airplane and tried to drop fire bombs onto the stack. In one of these instances, the plane ran low on fuel, and was forced to land at Easterwood Airport in College Station—the wooden portions of the plane found themselves part of Bonfire that year. In 1956, there was an unsuccessful attempt to plant explosives at the Bonfire site, and, in the late 1970s, a College Station police officer was fired after trying to ignite the bonfire several days ahead of schedule. Students spotted the officer before he could succeed and chased him across campus. In 1999, a Longhorn fan hired someone to build a six-foot model airplane designed to carry a bomb into the wood stack to ignite it prematurely. \"He was actually in the process of building that plane when they had the tragedy at bonfire\", Mel Stekoll said. \"At that point, we scrapped the plan. It would have been the next year that we planned to try it.\"\n\nIn 1965, membership in the Corps of Cadets became voluntary for students at Texas A&M. Before, Corps leaders directed construction of Bonfire. However, because the Corps had no authority over the \"non-regs\", or civilian students, a separate Bonfire leadership structure was instituted. The new leaders were designated with colored hard hats, or pots, with the overall leaders known as redpots.\n\nThe first Bonfire built with both Corps and non-reg participation was in 1963. The stack was scheduled to burn only days after the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Out of respect, the students dismantled the stack. As Head Yell Leader Mike Marlowe explained, \"It is the most we have and the least we can give.\"\n\nIn the following years the structure became more elaborate, and in 1967 the flames could be seen away. In 1969, the stack of logs set the world record for the height of a bonfire at tall. Out of concern for the safety of participants and the community, the university limited the size to tall and in diameter. As an added precaution, nearby campus buildings were equipped with rooftop sprinkler systems. Despite the new height restrictions, in the 1970s, the \"Guinness Book of Records\" listed Aggie Bonfire as the largest Bonfire in the world.\n\nIn 1978, Bonfire shifted from its previous teepee design to a wedding cake style, in which upper stacks of logs were wedged on top of lower stacks. The structure was built around a fortified center pole, made from two telephone poles spliced together by cutting matching notches, approximately long, and with of glue. Four steel plates were bolted to the two poles, and a cable wrapped around the joint and secured to the pole with steel staples. Four perimeter poles were placed away and ropes were stretched between the perimeter poles to center poles and tension placed on them to hold the center pole together. After the center pole was erected, logs were placed vertically around it in a multi-tiered wedding cake design composed of thousands of logs. By 1984, the logs were sloping only 14 degrees. The spiral arrangement of the logs was designed to make Bonfire collapse into itself in a twisting motion, thus protecting spectators. Although the tradition stated that if Bonfire burned through midnight then A&M would win the following day's football game, the introduction of the wedding cake design drastically reduced the time it took for Bonfire to fall, sometimes burning for only 30 or 45 minutes.\n\nDespite the complexity of the design, there were no formal written instructions or architectural blueprints for the construction of Bonfire. Knowledge on how to build the structure was passed verbally from one redpot to the next. By 1999, the only written documentation on the building of Bonfire was the rough schematic printed on the back of the official Bonfire T-shirt worn by participants from the freshman honors dormitory, Lechner.\n\nWhile the Bonfires of the 1960s were constructed in five to ten days, working primarily in daylight, by the late 1970s, changes in the school led to a more elaborate and lengthy construction schedule. Construction began in late October with \"Cut\", obtaining wood by cutting down trees with axes, which took several weekends. After Cut, students brought the logs to campus during \"Load\", a process by which the logs were loaded by hand onto flatbed trucks and brought to campus. In early November, crews began \"Stack\", a three-week period in which the logs were wired together and Bonfire took shape. Near the end of stack, known as \"Push\", students worked around the clock in rotating shifts. The first four of the six stacks were built with the efforts of all safety-trained participants. The day before Bonfire was scheduled to burn, junior redpots would build the fifth stack, and then senior redpots would build the sixth.\n\nDuring Cut, all logs were felled by hand, with students working in teams to chop down each tree with their axes. The manual labor ensured that participants were invested in each log that went into the Bonfire. Once the trees had fallen, brownpots, the \"executive lumberjacks\", used chainsaws to cut limbs and prepare the logs.\n\nTo ensure safety during the Stack period, the organizers maintained a perimeter around the working area, and allowed only safety-trained students through. Cranes, donated by local construction companies, assisted in getting logs onto the upper tiers, and volunteers from those companies were on-hand at all times to offer advice. Emergency medical technicians were also required to be on site at all times and no more than 70 students at a time were allowed on the stack. Once the stack was finished, \"an outhouse constructed by the sophomores of Texas A&M's \"Fightin' Texas Aggie Band\" and painted orange [symbolizing a] t.u. frat house\" was bedecked with derogatory statements about rival University of Texas at Austin and then placed on top of the stack.\n\nAlthough between two and five thousand students participated in the construction of Bonfire each year, most worked only part-time, and many worked only one or two shifts. Student workers were organized by dormitories or Corps units, with a separate off-campus student team. Many former students participated with teams they belonged to as students. Each team had assigned shifts, although individuals were not limited to working only the assigned shifts. Students working on Bonfire wore \"grodes\"—old T-shirts, jeans, and boots. By tradition, grodes were either not washed until after Bonfire burned or not washed at all.\n\nIn 1983, the city of College Station began manufacturing Austin city limits signs for students to place at the summit of the Bonfire so that students would stop stealing signs from Austin. The Fightin' Texas Aggie Band began building the outhouse, ending the tradition of stealing Bonfire's components.\n\nAlthough women were allowed to serve coffee and provide first aid in the late 1960s, in 1974 they were officially banned from both Cut and Stack. The ban was partially rescinded in 1979, when women were again allowed to participate in Cut, and completely rescinded in 1981. Few women participated in the early years, as female volunteers were subject to verbal abuse from their male counterparts. In 1987, two female photographers from the school yearbook alleged that male workers shouted obscenities and threw dirt on them as they tried to take pictures of the raising of the center pole. The redpots responded that women were always welcome to participate as long as they did their share of the work, and that the photographers were standing dangerously close to the stack. To find their own place in the Bonfire hierarchy, female students founded the all-female Bonfire Reload Crew to provide refreshments to those working at Cut and Stack.\n\nInjuries plagued the construction process. In 1981, student Wiley Keith Jopling died after being run over by a tractor at the Cut site. At the 1985 Cut site, one student broke his hip, and, in 1989, another student lost two fingers when logs crushed his hand. Fractures and amputations were rare, but many students suffered cuts, scrapes, or exposure to poison ivy. Hazing, including beatings with ax handles, was common.\n\nThe 1980s also saw increased alcohol consumption during the Bonfire ceremony. In 1988, police issued 140 Minor in Possession (of alcohol) citations and arrested six people. The following year, the local police department brought a paddywagon to the site for the first time, as they anticipated mass arrests for alcohol violations. As many as 150 police officers were on duty during the Bonfire burning from the Texas A&M and College Station police departments and the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission.\n\nIn 1989, the Campus Ministry Association, representing 17 religious denominations, unanimously approved a resolution asking the university to change Bonfire because of concerns about safety, participant academic performance, humanitarian considerations, and the environment. Shortly afterwards, the Faculty Senate's Committee of the Whole approved a resolution asking for a panel to explore alternatives to Bonfire.\n\nAlthough students protested Bonfire's environmental impact since 1970, no changes were made for decades. In 1990, student Scott Hantman asked the Bonfire leadership to help him address the problem. The group solicited volunteers, and in the spring of 1991, they planted 400 trees. The tradition, Aggie Replant, has been repeated annually. The Replant organization became independent of Bonfire in 1994 when it gained its own Student Government Committee.\n\nAfter being held at the Duncan Intramural Fields on the south side of A&M's campus for twenty-seven years, in 1992, Bonfire was relocated to the Polo Fields on the northeast corner of campus. This more isolated site, with a larger area for people to gather, made it a safer location. After heavy rains in 1994, the partially completed Bonfire began to slowly lean to the side as the soil underneath shifted. Student officials had enough warning to clear the area and tear down the Bonfire one week before its scheduled burn date. Nine tractors, two bulldozers, and two forklifts dismantled the stack on October 26, 1994, which, at 70% completed, stood tall and wide.\nStudents and alumni flocked to the Polo Fields, working around the clock, to rebuild the Bonfire in time for the game. It was completed only hours before it was scheduled to burn. After the 1994 Bonfire was burned, two tons of lime were spread on the Polo Fields to stabilize the ground. This layer hardened to a consistency similar to concrete.\n\nIn 1996 a student, Greg White, died in a car accident on his way home from Cut. The student and several companions were riding in the bed of a pickup truck when the driver lost control and the truck rolled. Nine other students were injured.\n\nThe 1999 collapse of Bonfire was witnessed by thousands of people around the world. The Texas A&M Department of Computer Science set up a camera aimed at the Bonfire site that took a picture every 10 minutes and posted it on the Internet. On the day of the collapse over 29,000 visitors visited the web page, at a time when only 20 million people worldwide had Internet access.\nIn its later years, students building Bonfire used logs donated by local landowners who wanted their land cleared for construction or farming. Over 8000 logs were used each year in the late 1990s, taking about 5000 students a combined 125,000 man-hours to construct. After being doused in 700 lb (318 kg) of jet fuel, applied by staff members at A&M's Fire Training School, the Yell Leaders, Drum Majors, and Redpots then lit the stack with torches the night before the annual football game against the University of Texas when at home and two nights before the game when it was played in Austin.\n\nThis event was popular among current and former students and people traveled from all over the state and the nation to observe the burning of Bonfire. Hotel rooms within of College Station were booked weeks or months in advance of the date Bonfire burned. Crowds ranged from 30,000 to 70,000 people, depending on the weather and the strength of the Aggie football team. The 1998 Bonfire was broadcast live on Fox Sports Southwest.\n\nAt approximately 2:42 a.m. on November 18, 1999, the 59-foot high stack, consisting of about 5000 logs, collapsed during construction. Of the 58 students and former students working on the stack, 12 were killed and 27 were injured. Immediately after the collapse, Emergency Medical Technicians and trained First Responders of the Texas A&M Emergency Care Team (TAMECT), a student-run, volunteer service, who staffed each stage of construction, administered first aid. TAMECT alerted the University Police and University EMS (also a student-run service), who dispatched all remaining university medics, and requested mutual aid from the surrounding agencies. In addition to the mutual aid received from the College Station and Bryan, Texas EMS, Fire, and Police Departments, members of Texas Task Force 1, the state's elite emergency response team, arrived to assist the rescue efforts.\n\nA memorial was constructed on the university polo fields, the site of the accident. Construction began in October 2003 and was completed by November 2004. On November 18, 2004, five years following the incident, the Bonfire Memorial was officially dedicated. The memorial is composed of three design elements:\n\nThe memorial design has been recognized by several organizations as an outstanding architectural design and masonry accomplishment. The American Institute of Architects, San Antonio Chapter, recognized the memorial as a winner of the 2005 AIA San Antonio Design Award. The memorial also was recognized as a winner of the 2005 MCAA International Excellence in Masonry Awards.\n\nTo further honor the victims, in 2000, the Aggie Replant Committee planted twelve live oak trees at the Polo Grounds.\n\nShortly after the university officially cancelled Bonfire, students began planning an unofficial bonfire for November 2002. Known as the \"Unity Project\", it became the first unofficial Bonfire since the 1930s. This fire consisted of three piles of wood, with the center stack being high. Despite a lack of official advertisement, over one thousand spectators attended.\n\nThe following year, the unofficial event was rebranded Student Bonfire. Now a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, Student Bonfire has official bylaws and a Board of Directors comprising former students. The bylaws specify the design that must be used each year, and no changes have been permitted since the first burn in 2003. This design, based on the recommendation of the 2002 university task force and approved by a structural engineer, results in a Bonfire less than half the size of those from the 1960s. In a departure from tradition, every log in the stack touches the ground. To maintain the traditional wedding-cake design, the logs are cut to different heights, with the tallest set reaching high. The lowered height eliminates the need for a spliced center pole. Instead, a single utility pole, sunk into the ground, serves as the center pole. As in the pre-1999 versions of Bonfire, each log is tied to the log next to it with baling wire. To further fortify the structure, aircraft-grade steel cable is wrapped around each tier. For added support, four poles are spaced evenly around the stack and then bolted to the center pole, each with a steel pipe. These poles are known as Windle-sticks, after Levi Windle, a staunch supporter of Student Bonfire who died in an unrelated accident in 2003.\n\nThe Board changed or eliminated many of the minor traditions that had proliferated during Aggie Bonfire, primarily for safety reasons. Alcohol is no longer permitted, and hazing has been banned. The Bonfire leadership structure has remained in place, although in 2014 only 10 of the 26 dorms were represented by Bonfire crews. Attendance for Student Bonfire ranges from 8,000–15,000 people and the event is held in Brazos County or one of the surrounding counties. The 2013 Student Bonfire attracted 12,000 people, despite being postponed until January due to flooding.\n\n\nOther sites:\n"}
{"id": "18768469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18768469", "title": "Ardabil rug", "text": "Ardabil rug\n\nArdabil rugs originate from Ardabil located in the province of Ardabil Province in northwestern Iran, 639 kilometers from Tehran. Ardabil has a long and illustrious history of Persian carpet weaving.\n\nThe reign of the Safavid Dynasty in the 16th and 17th centuries represented the peak of Persian carpet making in the region. The name Ardabil comes from the Avesta (The sacred book of Zoroastrians) and has the literal meaning of a tall holy place. The weavers in Ardabil ply their craft using Azerbaijani knots. Two of the most famous carpets in existence today are a pair of Persian carpets from Ardabil. One of the carpets, measuring 34' x 17', is on display in the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, England.\n\nArdabil rugs feature motifs that are very similar to Caucasian rugs, but with more motifs and objects woven into the borders. The colors are also lighter. The patterns are predominantly geometric and the most common layouts on Ardabil rugs are medallions, multiple connected diamond-shaped medallions, and all-over octagonal shapes. The most recognized design found on Ardabil rugs is the famous Mahi (Herati) design - a diamond medallion and small fish throughout. Some modern weavers have begun to favor bold geometric patterns over the traditional Mahi (Herati) design, and have added colors such as turquoise and purple to the more traditional red, pink, ivory, green, and blue.\n\nThe warp on Ardabil rugs is mostly cotton, while the weft is either cotton or wool, although silk is also used as weft on fine Ardabil rugs. The weavers may also incorporate silk into the woolen pile in order to accentuate highlights in the pattern. Ardabil rugs include some widely known carpets: \" Ardabil\", \"Sheikh Safi\", \"Sarabi\", \"Shah Abbasi\" and \"Mir\".\n\nThe Sheikh-Safi or Ardabil Carpets are a pair of carpets presented as a gift to the complex of Sheikh Safi-ad-din in Ardabil in 1539 CE. They are considered by many the finest carpets in the world. For Azerbaijani and Iranian Shiites, the “Sheikh Safi” mausoleum ranked second among the places of pilgrimage (the first being the Imam Reza mausoleum in Mashad). This type of rug is noted for its sophisticated construction, original compositional elements and decorative completeness of the 16-point turunj located in the middle of the center field. The sketch was created by a talented artist, while the carpet itself was woven by artful craftsmen of Tabriz, or perhaps even those from Ardabil. In 1539, the carpet was bought by Kashani pilgrim and presented as a charity gift to the “Sheikh Safi” mosque. However, before handing it over to the mosque, Maghsud Kashanitold the makers to weave his name on the rug along with the following stanza: “I have no other shelter but yours, except for your doors there is no other roof but for this home where I can lay my head” (The couplet from the 65th gazelle by the 14th century lyric poet hafez (1300–1389). And beneath it: “The work by a servant of this home, Maghsud Kashani” and the figure 946 (1539). This addition is perceived as a patch. The original “Sheikh Safi”, repaired from the other of the pair, is displayed at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, with the second carpet, reduced in size, in Los Angeles.\n\nThese carpets derived their names from the town of Sarab situated between Tabriz and Ardabil, There are the following versions of the Sarabi carpet:\n\nThe center field covered with the vertical lines, which are decorated by blooming branches arranged one after another in am asymmetrical way. \nThe center field with one gel. The carpets are beautiful and harmonious in color. The vegetal ornamental elements are woven almost in dotted lines, which to some extent resembles Karabakh carpets.\n\nThe name of these carpets is associated with Shah Abbas I (1587–1629), the fifth ruler of the Safavids empire. Shah Abbas moved the capital of the Safavids to the internal regions of Iran, namely to the town of Isfahan. As a result, many of the prominent craftsmen moved to Isfahan. The “Gum-Shah Abbasi” carpet is noted for the elements of an unusual form named “Şah Abbasi gülləri” (in Azerbaijani “Flowers of Shakh Abbas”). They largely consist of fantastical flowers as well as fig leaves. The asymmetrical arrangement of the elements along the horizontal line is viewed as the characteristic feature of this carpet.\n\nThe name of the carpet, which belongs to the Ardabil group of the Tabriz school, is associated with the names of the villages of Mir and Mirshi to the south of Ardabil.\n\nThe composition of the center field is formed by butteh ( \"bush\"). The forms of these buteh as well as their vertical and horizontal arrangement remind of the carpets of the Shirvan type “Maraza” and “Khila-buta”. Yet the individual butteh on the “Mir” carpet have a much simpler composition. This type of butteh can be also found on the fabric manufactured in Tabriz, and Kerman.\n\nThe border and the center edge of the carpet are unusual: they used to consist of vegetal curve-linear elements but as the weaving technique improved they acquired new forms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40538763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40538763", "title": "Baja Med", "text": "Baja Med\n\nBaja Med is a fusion cuisine of Mexican cuisine, such as chicharrón and cotija cheese, with those of Mediterranean, such as olive oil, and Asian cuisine, such as lemongrass. Baja Med dishes showcase the fresh produce and seafood of Baja California.\n\nThe cuisine features the fresh produce of the state. This includes fresh seafood from the port of Ensenada such as mussels, oysters, clams and shrimp, and blue tuna; miniature vegetables from the fields south of Ensenada, olives from the winemaking region of the Guadalupe Valley just northeast of Ensenada, dates from San Ignacio and tomatoes and strawberries from the San Quintin Valley. Additional ingredients include red lobster, manta rays, sea cucumbers and salicornia, a succulent that grows in sand dunes. \n\nExamples of Baja Med dishes include:\n\nBaja Med cuisine is a feature of the various restaurants of chef Javier Plascencia, La Querencia and El Taller from Miguel Ángel Guerrero, other Tijuana restaurants such as Food Garden, and Manzanilla in the city of Ensenada. In Bonita, California, between San Diego and Tijuana, Plascencia's Romesco features the cuisine. \n\nIn the Valle de Guadalupe wine country near Ensenada, chef Jaír Tellez's restaurant Laja is renowned for the cuisine, as are his restaurants Contramar and Merotoro in Mexico City. Diego Hernández heads up Corazón de Tierra in the Valle de Guadalupe, rated by William Reed Business Media (the \"San Pellegrino survey\") as one of Latin America's 50 best restaurants, also rick baylessand his trendy Leña Brava in Chicago. while chef Javier Plascencia is present with his Finca de Altozano, and Drew Deckman with Deckman's en el Mogor.\n"}
{"id": "33923119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33923119", "title": "Camisa blouse", "text": "Camisa blouse\n\nThe \"camisa\" blouse is a garment that originated in the Philippines. It is made from a cloth that has been woven using thread made from the pineapple plant. The thread is known as piña thread. Clothing and accessories, like shawls, were made out of piña. These began to be woven in the Philippines in the 16th century, and are still being made today. THE TEXTILE MUSEUM says that \"The pineapple plant is not a native species to the Philippines it is thought to have been introduced by the Spanish\". Because the cloth took a very long time to make, it was highly sought after and wearing a camisa blouse was seen as a sign of wealth.\n\nBy the 1850s, the sleeves of the carmisa blouse, which were made out of the embroidered piña thread became larger and tubular in shape.\n"}
{"id": "31358008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31358008", "title": "Christian Felix Weiße", "text": "Christian Felix Weiße\n\nChristian Felix Weiße (1726–1804) was a German writer and pedagogue. Weiße was among the leading representatives of the Enlightenment in Germany and is regarded as the founder of German children's literature.\n\nWeiße was born as twin on 28 January 1726 in Annaberg in the Ore Mountains as the son of Christian Heinrich Weiße and his wife, Christian Elisabeth. His father was rector at a Latin school and teacher for oriental and modern European languages. When Weiße was one year old, the family moved to Altenburg, Thuringia, 45 km south of Leipzig, where he then attended the Gymnasium and made his first attempts at writing poetry. His father had died in 1730.\n\nHis family moved then to Leipzig, where he studied philology and theology from 1745 until 1750 at the University of Leipzig. During this time, he became acquainted with Christian Fürchtegott Gellert, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, Friederike Caroline Neuber, Gottlieb Rabener and Ewald Christian von Kleist.\n\nAfter he finished his studies, Weiße became a private tutor to the Count Geyersberg, also a student in Leipzig. Friedrich Nicolai asked Weiße in 1759 to become editor of the magazine \"Bibliothek der schönen Wissenschaften\" (\"Library of the Beautiful Sciences\") which Nicolai had founded two years before; Weiße published this magazine and its successor until 1788. The same year, 1759, Weiße travelled to Paris; on his return, he relinquished the tutur position and became social companion to Count Schulenburg on the count's in Burgscheidungen.\n\nWeiße became district tax collector in Leipzig in 1762 and married in the following year Christiane Platner, the daughter of a renowned Leipzig surgeon and sister of Ernst Platner. In 1790, the patronage of Count Schulenburg allowed him to acquire the castle in (today part of Leipzig). He redesigned it completely and established an English garden. The property changed from an estate to a summerhouse and garden where a salon sees guests like Christian Garve, Christoph Martin Wieland, Moritz August von Thümmel and Jean Paul.\n\nApart from his poetry and plays, Weiße had great success with his magazine \"Der Kinderfreund\" (\"The Children's Friend\") which he published from 1775 until 1782 in 24 volumes; it is regarded as the first magazine for children in Germany. Four of his poems were set to music by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Weiße was not appreciated by the literary representatives of the then new movement, Sturm und Drang. His most lasting success were the librettos to Johann Adam Hiller's \"Singspiele\".\n\nWeiße died on 16 December 1804 in Stötteritz; he is buried in the Alter Johannisfriedhof in Leipzig. He was survived by his wife who died in 1813. A notable child from this marriage was the historian and jurist .\n\nAlmost all of the works by Johann Adam Hiller are set to librettos by Weiße, in particular:\nWorks by other composers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2308563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2308563", "title": "Dollar sign", "text": "Dollar sign\n\nThe dollar sign ($ or ) is a symbol primarily used to indicate the various units of currency around the world. The symbol can interchangeably have one or two vertical strokes. In common usage, the sign appears to the left of the amount specified, as in $1 (read: one dollar).\n\nA common hypothesis holds that the sign derives from the symbolic representation of the Pillars of Hercules – this representation can either have a banner separately around each pillar, or as in the Spanish coat of arms, a banner curling between them.\n\nIn 1492, Ferdinand II of Aragon adopted the symbol of the Pillars of Hercules and added the Latin warning \"Non plus ultra\" meaning \"nothing further beyond\", indicating \"this is the end of the (known) world\". But when Christopher Columbus came to America, the legend was changed to \"Plus ultra\", meaning \"further beyond\". The Pillars of Hercules wrapped in a banner thus became a symbol of the New World. The link between this symbol and the dollar sign is more clearly seen in Spanish coins of the period - which show two pillars, each with a separate banner, rather than one banner spanning both pillars. In this example the right-hand pillar clearly resembles the dollar sign, and additionally directly relates to the use of money.\n\nThe symbol was adopted by Charles V and was part of his coat of arms representing Spain's American possessions. The symbol was later stamped on coins minted in gold and silver. The coin, also known as Spanish dollar, was the first global currency used in the entire world since the Spanish Empire was the first global Empire. These coins, depicting the pillars over two hemispheres and a small \"S\"-shaped ribbon around each, were spread throughout America, Europe and Asia. According to this, traders wrote signs that, instead of saying Spanish dollar (piece of eight, \"real de a ocho\" in Spanish or \"peso duro\"), had this symbol made by hand, and this in turn evolved into a simple S with two vertical bars. When the US gained their independence from Great Britain, they created the American dollar, but in its early decades they continued to use the Spanish dollar, which was more trusted in all markets.\n\nThe United States, even after independence, was still using the pound sterling as currency. This is attested in state legislation of the early 1780s, referring to pounds and pence, which predated the U.S. Constitution and federal legislation.\n\nGiven the origin of this theory – related to Spanish (and Portuguese) colonisation of the Americas – it is likely that the cifrão or peso signs share the same origin, and that the double stroke usage is merely a stylistic variant, rather than a distinct character.\n\nThe sign is first attested in Spanish American, American, Canadian, Mexican and other British business correspondence in the 1770s, referring to the Spanish American peso, also known as \"Spanish dollar\" or \"piece of eight\" in North America, which provided the model for the currency that the United States adopted in 1792 and the larger coins of the new Spanish American republics such as the Mexican peso, Peruvian eight-real and Bolivian eight-sol coins.\n\nThis explanation holds that the sign evolved out of the Spanish and Spanish American scribal abbreviation \"pˢ\" for pesos. A study of late eighteenth- and early nineteenth-century manuscripts shows that the \"s\" gradually came to be written over the \"p\", developing into a close equivalent to the \"$\" mark. A variation, though less plausible, of this hypothesis derives the sign from a combination of the Greek character \"psi\" (ψ) and \"S\".\n\nThere are a number of other hypotheses about the origin of the symbol, some with a measure of academic acceptance, others the symbolic equivalent of false etymologies.\n\nAmong the various hypotheses, the simplest one is that the barred S is actually a typo modified 8, from its obvious link with the pieces of eight, the popular name of the Spanish dollar. The added (single or double) bar should be the same commonly used to distinguish a letter dedicated to a currency value, like £.\n\nKingdom of Sicily\nDenari minted by Manfred of Hohenstaufen in the Kingdom of Sicily between 1258 and 1266 had what can be construed as an early dollar symbol. These coins were widely circulated outside Europe due to the Crusades, including the Crusade that targeted Tunis.\n\nSeveral alternative hypotheses relate specifically to the dollar sign drawn with two vertical lines.\n\nA dollar sign with two vertical lines could have started off as a monogram of 'USA', used on money bags issued by the United States Mint. The letters U and S superimposed resemble the historical double-stroke dollar sign : the bottom of the 'U' disappears into the bottom curve of the 'S', leaving two vertical lines. It is postulated in the papers of Dr. James Alton James, a professor of history at Northwestern University from 1897 to 1935, that the symbol with two strokes was an adapted design of the patriot Robert Morris in 1778. Robert Morris was such a zealous patriot – known as the \"Financier of the Revolution in the West\" – that James came to believe that conjecture does not overstep its bounds in purporting this hypothesis as viable. A similar idea claims that the letters U and S would stand for unit of silver, referencing pieces of eight again, but that is unlikely since one would expect it to be in Spanish instead.\n\nAnother hypothesis is that it derives from the symbol used on a German Thaler. According to Ovason (2004), on one type of thaler one side showed a crucifix while the other showed a serpent hanging from a cross, the letters NU near the serpent's head, and on the other side of the cross the number 21. This refers to the Bible, Numbers, Chapter 21 (see Nehushtan).\n\nA similar symbol, constructed by superposition of \"S\" and \"I\" or \"J\", was used to denote German Joachimsthaler (\"S\" and \"J\" standing for St. Joachim who gave his name to the place where the first thalers were minted). It was known in the English-speaking world by the 17th century, appearing in 1686 edition of \"An Introduction to Merchants' Accounts\" by John Collins.\n\nRobert Morris was the first to use this symbol in official documents and in official communications with Oliver Pollock. The U.S. dollar was directly based on the Spanish Milled Dollar when, in the Coinage Act of 1792, the first Mint Act, its value was fixed (per the U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8, clause 1 power of the United States Congress \"To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures\") as being \"of the value of a Spanish milled dollar as the same is now current, and to contain three hundred and seventy-one grains and four sixteenth parts of a grain of pure, or four hundred and sixteen grains of standard silver\".\n\nAccording to a plaque in St Andrews, Scotland, the dollar sign was first cast into type at a foundry in Philadelphia, United States in 1797 by the Scottish immigrants John Baine, Archibald Binney and James Ronaldson.\nThe dollar sign did not appear on U.S. coinage until February 2007, when it was used on the reverse of a $1 coin authorized by the Presidential $1 Coin Act of 2005.\n\nThe dollar sign appears as early as 1847 on the $100 Mexican War notes and the reverse of the 1868 $1000 United States note. The dollar sign also appears on the reverse of the 1934 $100,000 note.\n\nIn Japanese and Korean, the Han character 弗 has been repurposed to represent the dollar sign due to its visual similarity.\n\nThe dollar sign is one of the few symbols that are almost universally present in computer character sets but rarely needed in its literal meaning within computer software. As a result, the character has been used on computers for many purposes unrelated to money. Its uses in programming languages have often influenced or provoked its uses in operating systems, and applications.\n\nThe dollar sign \"$\" has Unicode code point U+0024 (inherited from Latin-1).\n\n\nThere are no separate characters for one- and two-line variants. This is typeface-dependent.\n\nThere are also three other code points that originate from other East Asian standards: the Taiwanese small form variant, the CJK fullwidth form, and the Japanese emoji. The glyphs for these code points are typically larger or smaller than the primary code point, but the difference is mostly aesthetic or typographic, and the meanings of the symbols are the same.\n\nHowever, for usage as the special character in various computing applications (see following sections), U+0024 is typically the only code that is recognized.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn addition to those countries of the world that use dollars or pesos, a number of other countries use the $ symbol to denote their currencies, including:\n\nAn exception is the Philippine peso, whose sign is written as ₱.\n\nThe dollar sign is also still sometimes used to represent the Malaysian ringgit (which replaced the local dollar), though its official use to represent the currency has been discontinued since 1993.\n\nSome currencies use the \"cifrão\" (), similar to the dollar sign, but always with two strokes:\n\n\nIn Mexico and other peso-using countries, the cifrão is used as a dollar sign when a document uses both pesos and dollars at the same time, to avoid confusion, but when the dollar sign is used alone (not in conjunction with the cifrão), it is usually represented as US $ (United States dollars) or by its ISO 4217 code \"USD\". Example: US $5 or 5 USD (five U.S. dollars).\n\nHowever, in Argentina, the $ sign is always used for pesos, and if they want to indicate dollars, they always write U$S 5 or US$5 (5 US dollars).\n\nIn the United States, Mexico, Australia, Argentina, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Pacific Island nations, and English-speaking Canada, the dollar or peso symbol precedes the number. Five dollars or pesos is written and printed as $5, whereas five cents is written as 5¢. In French-speaking Canada, the dollar symbol usually appears after the number ().\n\nThe dollar sign introduces a subfield delimiter in computer coding of library catalog records.\n\nAlso, it is used derisively to indicate greed or excess money such as in \"Micro$oft\", \"George Luca$\", \"Lar$ Ulrich\", \"Di$ney\", \"Chel$ea\" and \"GW$\"; or supposed overt Americanization as in \"$ky\". The dollar sign is also used intentionally to stylize names such as A$AP Rocky, Ke$ha and Ty Dolla $ign or words such as ¥€$. In 1872, Ambrose Bierce referred to the California Governor as $tealand Landford.\n\nIn Scrabble notation, a dollar sign is placed after a word to indicate that it is valid according to the North American word lists, but not according to the British word lists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2963817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2963817", "title": "Drakengard 2", "text": "Drakengard 2\n\nDrakengard 2, originally released in Japan as , is an action role-playing video game developed by Cavia and published by Square Enix exclusively for the PlayStation 2. It is the second entry in the \"Drakengard\" series, set after the events of the original \"Drakengard\": the story revolves around Nowe, a boy raised by the dragon Legna, fighting against a tyrannical faction of knights, encountering characters from the previous game and becoming entangled in the fate of the world.\n\nLike the original, \"Drakengard 2\" combines on-foot hack and slash with aerial combat stages and RPG game mechanics. The previous game's producer, writer and character designer returned to their respective roles. The game was designed as a more mainstream game in light of the previous game's dark aesthetic and story. The game sold 206,000 copies by the end of 2005. Western reviews praised the story, but gave mixed opinions about the graphics and widely criticized the gameplay. A spin-off from the series, \"Nier\", was released in 2010, while a third entry in the series, \"Drakengard 3\", was released in December 2013 in Japan and May 2014 in North America and Europe.\n\nAs with the original \"Drakengard\", the game is split into chapters and subdivided into ground-based and airborne missions. The story of the game dictates which missions come when during the initial playthrough and how they play out, though as the player progresses, new remixed versions of the various playable levels called \"free missions\" are unlocked, which allow the player to go through the missions with the story elements removed. The player can jump between the game world's self-contained areas via a world map unlocked after the first chapter. In between the various chapters and missions, the player builds up their characters using experience points earned in battle: the characters' weapons and abilities, and the abilities of the player's dragon, can be gradually improved. The player's view of the world is through a fixed camera, which tracks the player's progress across the player area. Collectables in the form of weapons and items such as armor and health points and items needed to progress within the level are also available for the player to seek out. The game features Normal, Hard, and Expert difficulty levels, and there are multiple weapons and items to collect throughout the levels.\n\nCombat in the game is similar to its predecessor, with the main series of missions beginning after an opening tutorial. The game features ground-based hack-and-slash gameplay and aerial combat. In ground combat, the player controls multiple characters, switching between them via the pause menu in order to use their different weapons. The characters use physical attacks using character weapons for short-range battle, while magical attacks are used for long-range attacks and groups of enemies. The magical attacks vary between the playable characters. Weapons, characters and magical abilities leave up and grow stronger as the player gains experience points in combat: weapons have a four-level cap.\n\nAerial gameplay puts the main character atop his dragon, which is guided round by the player to attack enemy formations and large structures on the ground or enemies and airships in the sky. The player can also jump between the dragon and the ground during ground-based missions. The dragon has the ability to launch two types of fireballs: a homing variety that deals damage to single enemies, and a widespread attack which does higher damage to groups. Alongside this, the dragon can perform a special attack called \"Dragon Overdrive\", which kills many normal enemy units outright and deals high damage to stronger units and bosses. The dragon also gains experience and levels up through combat, dealing more damage in its attacks as it grows stronger. It also evolves and grows stronger at points directly linked to the game's narrative.\n\n\"Drakengard 2\" takes place in an unnamed land nearly two decades after the events of \"Drakengard\": originally said to take place after the game's first ending, it was later retconned so it took place in an isolated timeline following events similar to \"Drakengard\". In the original game, two powers, the Empire and the Union, were engaged in a religious war over the Seals, magical bindings tied to a chosen Goddess of the Seal that kept dark entities known as the Watchers from appearing in the mortal world and destroying humanity. Caught up in the conflict were Caim and Angelus, a human and a dragon who had made a pact (a magical ritual that linked their souls), and fought to try to keep both the Seals and the Goddess safe. Though they ultimately failed, Angelus became the new seal, averting the end of the world. Eighteen years later, the Seals are protected by the Knights of the Seal, who eventually grow to become a dominating force in the land.\n\nThe game's main character is , a Knight of the Seal gifted with superhuman powers. Nowe's companion is , a dragon who helped raise Nowe and was involved in the events of 18 years before. Accompanying Nowe on his journey is , the main antagonist of the first game who now seeks to free the people from the oppression of the Knights; , a female Knight of the Seal and Nowe's childhood friend; and a former Knight who made a pact with the Grim Reaper in exchange for his mortality. The main villain of the game is , leader of the Knights of the Seal. Returning from the first game are , the previous game's main protagonist; , the current Goddess of the Seal; and , once a companion to Caim and now the Hierarch of the Union. Minor characters include the guardians of the Seals, , and , and , who helped raise Nowe.\n\nThe game begins with Nowe becoming a fully-fledged Knight of the Seal. During his first mission, Nowe begins to doubt the ethics of the Knights' methods, as the seals require human sacrifices to remain strong. During a second mission to ensure the protection of the seal in the District of Soul Flame, Nowe encounters Manah, who kills the guardian Zhangpo and destroys the seal. Manah is sentenced to be burnt at the stake, but uses her magic to escape. After returning from the mission, Nowe is poisoned by Gismor, who reveals to have killed Nowe's adoptive father Oror. Surviving and escaping with Legna, Nowe is pursued by the Knights, including Eris, who wishes to persuade him to return. Nowe and Legna eventually meet up with Manah and join her on her quest to destroy the seals and, in her mind, free the people from the Knights' oppression. On their way to the second seal, Manah shows Nowe the true horror of the Knights' oppression, fully winning him over. The two then fight and kill Lieutenant Hanch, destroying the seal in the District of Hallowed Water. After this, they are joined by Urick, a former Lieutenant of the Knights, to rout a group of bandits. Attacked by the Knights, they are unexpectedly saved by Caim, who is also working to destroy the seals and free his dragon Angelus from the pain of being the Goddess Seal. After taking down Lieutenant Yaha and destroying the seal in the District of Precious Light, Manah is captured by the Knights and sentenced to death. Nowe manages to rescue her and heads for the seal in the District of Shining Life, which was once guarded by Urick before he fled in fear when Caim attacked the district. Urick and Nowe face off against Caim, who mortally wounds Urick before being driven off. Urick dies content and the seal is destroyed.\n\nNowe and Manah head for the final seal in the District of Heavenly Time, guarded by Gismor himself. Nowe and Gismor battle, and Gismor is wounded again, transforming into a shadow-like being and using Eris to block Nowe's final attack. Believing Eris dead, Nowe and Manah pursue Gismore, but are met by Seere, who unsuccessfully tries to stop them. When they confront Gismor, he reveals himself to be a vindictive survivor of the Empire from eighteen years before. Defeated, Gismor destroys the final seal himself, releasing Angelus from her imprisonment. After Seere reveals the true consequences of Manah's actions, Nowe and Legna pursue Angelus. When they find her, they find that Angelus has been driven mad by the pain of being the final seal. Caim asks them to kill her, and as she dies, he and Angelus share a final moment together before fading away. With the seals destroyed, the world begins to fall into chaos and Manah is driven mad by the memories of her actions eighteen years before. Legna then takes Nowe to the fortress of the holy dragons, where they hear a prophecy concerning Nowe: according to the prophecy, Nowe is a New Breed created to aid the dragons in their war against the Watchers. Nowe then reunites with Eris, who had been healed by Seere, and frees Manah from her madness. Legna then takes the three to the Promised Land, a dragon stronghold that holds the Bone Casket, an object given to the dragons by and imbued with the power of the Watchers that can speed up Nowe's evolution into the New Breed. It is also where Seere has gone to initiate a new Goddess of the Seal. The game has three endings, each achieved on a separate playthrough.\n\n\n\"Drakengard 2\" was announced in December 2004. Producer Takamasa Shiba and character designer Kimihiko Fujisaka returned to the team, alongside actor Shinnosuke Ikehata, who voiced the dragon Angelus and its partner Caim in the previous game. The original director, Yoko Taro, originally proposed a space adventure involving dragons, but this was vetoed at an early stage. Yoko was not involved in creating the narrative as he had been in \"Drakengard\", being mostly tied up with another project, though he was able to observe the project's progress. He and \"Drakengard 2\"s director Akira Yasui suffered from creative differences, with the result that Yoko termed their relationship on the project as a \"love-hate\" story in a 2013 interview concerning the series. Their relationship inspired one of the stories created for an in-game weapon. Yoko was eventually brought on fairly late in the game's production to act as video editor for the CGI cutscenes and trailers. The game's cast featured multiple film and television actors, including Ryo Katsuji, Saki Aibu, Koyuki and veteran actor Yoshio Harada. Shiba commented at the time that he felt they had gathered a very good voice cast for the game.\n\nOne of the decisions Yasui made was to make \"Drakengard 2\" far more colorful than the previous game, wanting to do something that was the \"opposite\" of \"Drakengard\". In contrast to the previous game, the game contained far less of the mature themes found in the original. Shiba, speaking in a 2013 interview, said that the reason for this was that Square Enix, the company's Japanese publisher, wanted that aspect toned down to make a more mainstream game. It was designed to keep some dark aesthetics from its predecessor, with the previous game's theme of immorality as one of the key character and narrative themes, as well as themes of war and death. Other themes explored were love and hate, and the ambivalence represented in the world's prevalent factions (the Knights of the Seal, and the Cult of Watchers). Highlighted aspects of the story were the father-son relationship between Nowe and Legna, and how Manah had matured since the events of \"Drakengard\". To promote the game in Japan, Fujisaka created a light-toned joke advertisement under the name \"Angelegna\", referring to the original names of the two dragon characters. While Square Enix published the title in Japan, they entered an agreement with developer and publishing company Ubisoft to publish the title overseas. Ubisoft also handled the game's localization.\n\nOne of the main concepts for main protagonist Nowe was surpassing one's father. For the fight between Nowe and Legna, special gameplay functions and mechanics needed to be created for Nowe. Shiba had mixed feelings about the final fight between Legna and Nowe, which he saw as a drastic change from both the first game and the series mechanic of the protagonist riding a dragon. Shiba ended up writing their dialogue to emphasize their relationship and the difficulty of them fighting each other, paralleling earlier scenes between Caim and Angelus. The deaths of Caim and Angelus was intended to be \"short and ruthless\", but Yasui had it changed to the more sentimental version present in the game. Dialogue from Caim for the scene was cut from the game due to it clashing with his previous portrayal as a mute. Urick was created to be the supportive \"big brother\" of the party.\n\nAlthough the main characters were designed by Fujisaka, the character Legna, previously known as the \"Black Dragon\", was designed by Taro Hasegawa, who was also monster designer for both \"Drakengard\" and \"Drakengard 2\". In addition to designing the characters, Fujisaka drew the character portraits used for character dialogue boxes during in-game cutscenes, a feature he initially objected to. Nowe, in contrast to the other protagonists of the \"Drakengard\" series, was designed around the concept of a stereotypical hero. Nowe was one of Fujisaka's favorite characters to design, although Shiba was less enthusiastic. Manah's redesign in \"Drakengard 2\" reflected both her evolved personality and her more traditional depiction as a fantasy heroine. Elements of their designs were taken from Caim and Furiae, representing \"passing the torch\" between characters. Because of Legna's different roles in \"Drakengard\" and \"Drakengard 2\", his design and movements were altered for his second incarnation. Eris's design was inspired by Casca, a character from \"Berserk\": while he tried not to copy any parts of Casca's design, Fujisaka tried to convey it using aspects of her personality. He also tried to balance this part of her depiction with a tender and more feminine side. Another idea he had in mind was the image of an honors student. Her dance-like fighting style was generally suggested by the game's staff. Caim's redesign was meant to represent his status as a wanderer.\n\n\"Drakengard 2\"s soundtrack was composed by Ryoki Matsumoto and Aoi Yoshiki, with supervision by Nobuyoshi Sano, who worked on the music of \"Drakengard\" and acted as Sound Director for the game. The CGI cutscenes were scored by Masashi Yano. Due to criticism of his work on the first game, Sano was asked by Shiba to bring in outside help for the second game's soundtrack: Matsumoto was brought in because of his work on the songs \"Yuki no Hana\" and \"Tsuki no Shizuku\", and, Yoshiki was brought on at Matsumoto's request. The soundtrack was designed to be a fusion of J-pop and conventional video game music, and to evoke the emotions of the various characters and the feeling of battle. The game's theme song in Japan, \"Hitori\", was sung by Mika Nakashima, who also worked as a sound producer. The theme song for the game's English release was \"Growing Wings\", a localized version of the first game's theme song sung by Kari Wahlgren.\n\n\"Drakengard 2\" sold well in Japan. The game was considered a hit in Japan by Ubisoft, selling 100,000 units in its first week, and reaching sales of 170,000 units by the end of the month, becoming the second best-selling game of June behind Sega's GBA port of \"\". It eventually sold just over 206,000 copies by the end of 2005. The game was eventually re-released as part of Square Enix's Ultimate Hits series, re-releases of high-selling titles. \"Drakengard 2\" received a score of 30/40 from Japanese gaming magazine \"Famitsu\". The game received \"average\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nThe story received mixed to positive reviews. IGN's Ed Lewis said it \"admirably [continued] the bizarre and fantastically medieval world that was established in the original game.\", while GameSpot's Greg Meuller called it \"Interesting [...] with plenty of twists and turns\". Eurogamer's Simon Parkin cited the story as being very good, though he found Nowe \"a little nauseating to watch as the weighty, dark (and pretty good) plot unfolds\", and VideoGamer.com's Adam Jarvis called the story \"one of the highlights of the package\". The 1UP reviewer called the \"clear undercurrent of \"maybe the good guys are the bad guys,\"\" one of the main reasons to keep playing the game. In contrast, the reviewer for GameTrailers called it \"a cookie-cutter RPG plot\" where players could \"predict nearly every plot twist the game throws at [them].\",\n\nThe graphics received mixed reviews. Lewis called them \"more interesting than the first game, but marginally so\", and Meuller called them \"dated\", with environments seeming \"bland and drab, and the enemies [looking] generic\". The GameTrailers reviewer praised the character animations, but cited the environments as bland and felt that there were too few FMVs and too many game engine-driven cutscenes, which he described as \"awful\". Parkin criticized the game's graphic capacities, commenting that players would \"stop watching the main screen instead fixing upon the little map in the corner to guide your character towards hostile red dots that only materialize polygonal just seconds before you lock swords.\", while Jarvis said that it had not improved from the previous game and called the colors \"very murky, drab and dark\". 1UP said that the graphics \"[don't] hold up to the visual quality of Cavia's other titles like \"\" [or] \"\"\".\n\nThe gameplay was universally criticized. Parkin called the battle gameplay \"lightweight\" and the balance between ground and aerial combat poor despite a good character leveling system, while Lewis described it as being without strategy, with the game \"just dumping in more boring enemies to wade through\". GameTrailers said that there was \"nothing new here.\", while Meuller called it \"dull at best and frustrating at worst\". 1UP said that the combat was \"almost sickening to look at.\", though he cited the RPG elements as a redeeming feature. Jarvis simply called the gameplay \"Same old, same old\", citing it as a major fault of the game.\n\nIn September 2013, the game was given an honorable mention among \"Kotaku\" Tim Rogers as one of the best games on the PS2. Rogers gave praise to the game's parry mechanic and atmosphere. In the year of its release in Japan, the game received a novelization written by Emi Nagashima under her pen name of Jun Eishima. Yoko and Shiba teamed up again to create another game in the series, but that eventually developed into \"Nier\", a spin-off from the first game's fifth ending. After \"Nier\"s release, Cavia was absorbed into AQ Interactive, then Yoko left to become a freelance. An attempt by Shiba to begin development of a third \"Drakengard\" game at AQ Interactive were unsuccessful. \"Drakengard 3\" was eventually unveiled in 2013, with Shiba, Yoko and Fujisaka returning to their former roles and the story being set before the original game. Both Shiba and Yoko have voiced their willingness to continue the series on next-generation consoles if there were sufficient sales and funds, while Yoko also expressed interest in making a second spin-off, although he did not specify whether it would be set in the world of \"Nier\" or not.\n"}
{"id": "31459790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31459790", "title": "EU Talent Day", "text": "EU Talent Day\n\nEU Talent Day is an observance of the European Union on Béla Bartók's birthday who was a well-known composer in and outside of Europe.\n\nThe first European TalentDay was held on April 9, 2011. This coincided with the Hungarian EU Presidential Conference on Talent Support, held in Budapest on April 7–9, 2011. Conference delegates proposed March 25, birthday of Béla Bartók, as EU TalentDay. This event, written on the first EU TalentDay, includes the following points about the purpose of talent development in the European Union and of EU TalentDay:\n\n\nIt is observed on March 25.\n\nThe first EU Talent Day Libre art Festival was held in March, 2018 in Budapest organized by Attila Szervác: libre art composer, \"LEVEGRU\" Company, \"4'34\" Camerata\" and other groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "26725307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26725307", "title": "Euro-Sinica", "text": "Euro-Sinica\n\nEuro-Sinica is a scholarly series, published by the European academic publisher Peter Lang. The series focuses primarily on intercultural and transcultural studies, including intellectual history, of Europe and China.\n\nThe monograph series was founded by Adrian Hsia, of McGill University, following the first Sino-German symposium on intercultural relations immediately after the opening of China subsequent to the Cultural Revolution. The symposium was co-organized by Hsia and Professor Guenther Debon, University of Heidelberg, and its proceedings entitled \"Goethe und China, China und Goethe\" (1985) were published as volume one of the series. Later on, the prominent Chinese novelist and scholar Qian Zhongshu wrote the Chinese title of Euro-Sinica in his beautiful calligraphy which constitutes a part of the book cover since volume three. So far, twelve volumes have been published in English, French, and German, covering the three domains mentioned above.\n\nIn this series of intellectual probings, the terms \"Europe\" and \"China\" are not to be understood geo-politically, but rather culturally. Wherever a European language is used as the official language, such a country is considered to belong to the European cultural group. In a similar vein, wherever Chinese ideograms are used and the tenets of Confucianism, Taoism, and Chinese Buddhism are followed, these countries are regarded as the Sinic group. Studies on both cultural groups are also included in the monograph series. The third domain of Euro-Sinica constitutes analyses of ethnic Chinese artists and thinkers living in the West.\n\nPublished Titles\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20835611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20835611", "title": "Extremis", "text": "Extremis\n\nExtremis is a six-issue story arc from the comic book series \"Iron Man\" (vol. 4), published in issues one through six in 2005 and 2006 by Marvel Comics. It was written by Warren Ellis and illustrated by Adi Granov. \"Extremis\" elevates the status quo for Iron Man, increasing the power of his armor significantly.\n\n\"Extremis\" received mostly positive reviews, and is often listed as one of the best Iron Man stories. Elements of \"Extremis\" were adapted for the 2008 film \"Iron Man\", and the \"\" episode \"Extremis\", and the storyline serves as the primary source material for the 2013 film \"Iron Man 3\".\n\n\"Extremis\" was the second story arc after the \"Avengers Disassembled\" crossover event, not to be confused with \"\", a later story in \"The Invincible Iron Man\".\n\nThe story was meant as a sort of \"new start\" for the character—to redefine him from his origins as an arms dealer, to be the \"test pilot for the future\" Ellis intended him to be. The story rarely mentions any of Iron Man's past, and references to the rest of the Marvel universe are limited to brief, passing mentions of the Avengers and Fin Fang Foom. Warren Ellis admitted he had intentionally not read any Iron Man material besides the very earliest issues.\n\nThis is similar for Adi Granov: \"My first official introduction to the character occurred a year prior to \"Extremis\". [...] Upon reading the script, I realized how realistic Warren's approach was to the story. [...] When illustrating the book I wanted my art to mirror the realism in Warren's writing [...] I felt that Warren wrote a story that's a sort of techno-thriller action story and I wanted the art to reflect this. [...] I saw Iron Man as not just a superhero in a suit; rather he is a pilot or weapon. To me, the Iron Man armor is more akin to a jet fighter than it is to an outfit.\n\nThe story, which lasts about three to four days in comic book time, takes place at an undefined time after the founding of the New Avengers and before the Stamford catastrophe (which led to the Marvel Civil War).\n\nTony Stark is a weapons designer whose weapons are being used against Al Qaeda in Afghanistan in the years just prior to the second Gulf War. He is injured during an inspection tour when one of his own bombs detonates, sending a piece of shrapnel into his chest, and is captured by Afghan terrorists. As in the original origin story, Tony creates his first suit of armor with Ho Yinsen and escapes the terrorists, with Yinsen killed during the escape (noted by Tony to be due to a single stray bullet).\n\nThree men enter a disused slaughterhouse in Texas, where two of them inject a willing third, whom they call \"Mallen.\" This injection contains an experimental drug which makes him fall to the floor in immense pain. A bizarre physical change overtakes him; his horrified compatriots flee the room, but lock him in it.\n\nMiles underground in his Coney Island \"garage\" , Stark is awakened from sleep and several weeks of work, isolation, and diminished self care by his secretary's phone call, reminding him of a scheduled interview with a journalist. During the interview, the journalist discovers that Stark is most regretful that the world-changing, humanitarian improvements he had hoped to fund with his weapons sales have not yet materialized. Confronted by his regrets, Stark returns to the garage, takes stock of himself while realizing that the Iron Man is likely his key to a better future for both himself and humanity. Having canceled all appointments, Tony Stark dons the newest version of the Iron Man armor and takes off into the sky.\n\nMeanwhile, the injected man's body, still lying in the Bastrop warehouse, is now covered completely in a bizarre layer of scar tissue.\n\nLater, at Futurepharm Corporation offices in Austin, Texas, Dr. Aldrich Killian commits suicide after typing and printing his confession. The note informs co-worker Maya Hansen that he has stolen and \"loosed\" the company's dangerous Extremis serum for some \"greater\" purpose. Hansen calls Tony Stark, whom she met years ago at a meeting of the minds.\n\nBack in the Texas slaughterhouse, the two men return to find Mallen almost completely recovered in appearance. He is alive, having almost punched through the locked metal door.\n\nStark arrives in Texas in the middle of a teleconference with his board of directors, rejecting their requests that he resign as CEO of his company and take a head technician title instead. Tony also argues that Stark Industries, having invented a revolutionary cell phone and connection method, no longer needs the government's funding. The conference ends at a crossroad. Arriving at Futurepharm, Stark learns that the intended receiver of the Extremis dose is currently unknown due to an inability to hack Killian's computer. Using Stark Industry's new prototype phone, Tony emails Killian's entire hard drive to be hacked by one of his employees, and, to distract Maya, jets her and himself to San Diego to talk with their old friend and teacher, Sal Kennedy.\n\nMeanwhile, the three men from the slaughterhouse arrive at the FBI field office. While Kennedy, now a futurist following nature and an idealistic way of life, harangues Tony and Maya on their military work and thus-far-failed promise, Mallen sets the FBI office on fire using his new biological powers. Maya catches the story on the news, realizing that the terrorists are in fact using Extremis and causing casualties of over 50 civilians. Back in the van, Mallen tells his confederates that he is only getting started.\n\nIn flight back to Texas, Maya tells Stark Extremis is a military nanotechnology serum that was another attempt to recreate the Captain America Super-Soldier Serum, and that the new formula interfaces with the brain's 'repair center' and directs the body to rebuild itself from scratch as if it were all wound tissue to be replaced. Stark receives a call from his employee, which reveals that Killian gave Extremis to local terrorists. Realizing the threat, Tony drops Maya off at Futurepharm, and departs.\n\nIron Man tracks the terrorists' van from above via body heat scans and tears it in half with a non-lethal repulsor ray. Mallen instantly recovers, and after refusing to surrender peacefully, engages Iron Man in a brutal fight. Throughout the battle, it becomes obvious that Mallen's new abilities far surpass the processing speed and durability of Iron Man's armor. Suffering severe injuries and damage to his armor, Iron Man and the police manage to repulse Mallen, though civilian casualties are present. Mallen flees, leaving Stark trapped beneath a burning car with his armor at zero power. Stark saves himself and the car's passengers by raising his armor to 1% power by drawing from the flames' thermal energy, though he is forced to rely on the police to remove the car from atop his body.\n\nIron Man calls Maya and has her people fly him to Futurepharm, where, in a private medical bay, he reveals himself as Tony Stark to Maya. Knowing the severity of his injuries, Tony realizes the only way for him to survive and defeat Mallen is to become one with the Iron Man by taking the Extremis serum himself. Maya gives Tony a lower dose of the serum that will not alter his mind and body as it did for Mallen. Unknown to Maya, Tony had altered the structure of the Extremis dose, removing several safeties and linking himself to his armor and machinery. Tony falls into a coma as a cocoon forms around his body.\n\nWhile unconscious, Stark relives his story as Iron Man, starting with his first mortal injury and the secrets he revealed to Yinsen while they constructed the original Arc Reactor (used to still the shrapnel lodged in Stark's chest and prevent it from puncturing his heart) and Iron Man suit (something powered by the same thing keeping him alive that would allow for the two of them to escape their captors). Tony confesses that the terrorists could not be allowed to use his weapons, and that his Military contracts were nothing more than \"stealing money from the government\" to fund something that would better all of mankind and bring a better future; the Iron Man idea was never a weapon of war, but the start of a process that would merge men with machines and make humanity great.\n\nTwenty-four hours into his coma, the cocoon which has covered his body bursts; Stark awakens, healed and newly fit. An internal control sheath for his Iron Man armor is now contained within the hollows of his bones, able to emerge upon mental command. He can integrate himself not only into his armor, but phone, computer, and even satellite networks. Maya confronts Tony on the potential strain his organs will suffer, only to find that the Extremis formula allowed him to grow entirely new organs. Using an older version of the Iron Man suit stored in a suit case, Tony explains that the autonomous armor was the way of the future, though its low processing speed made it useless until now.\n\nTapping into a satellite cluster, Iron Man finds Mallen heading towards Washington, intent on killing the president. Having the police evacuate the city, Iron Man confronts Mallen. During the fight, Iron Man reveals several aspects of his past, saying that he was forced to kill nearly 50 people in order to escape the terrorists and save himself and his friend, only to witness a stray bullet kill Yinsen on impact. Mallen replies that his parents died the same way. Tony points out that when Mallen killed 50 people, he did so with no knowledge of who or what they were, and did so twenty years after the fact. Now superior to Mallen, Iron Man explains that he had to be the one to stop the terrorist, seeing Mallen as a perversion of himself: a man with power but no concern for or ability to see the future. In the end, Mallen refuses to listen, pins Stark to the ground, and violently declares, \"There isn't any future. I'm gonna kill it!\" Seeing the horror before him, Stark fires his unibeam, piercing Mallen's chest and tearing his organs apart. Enraged by the man's refusal to give up, as well as his contempt for all life, Iron Man grabs Mallen's head with both hands and blows it off with a double blast of his repulsor rays. Attempting to recover, Mallen's body rises onto its knees, only to collapse lifeless on the ground. Furious, Iron Man condemns Mallen for what he made him do. Recovering from the incident, Stark declares that he has one last thing to do: the worst part yet.\n\nConfronting Maya at Futurepharm, Iron Man reveals that Maya was clearly Killian's accomplice, due to the issue of needing two key cards entered at the same time as well as her extensive involvement with the formula. Maya allows herself to be taken away, though she justifies her actions by comparing the Extremis serum to the Atom Bomb, saying, \"It had to be used once in anger so that it would never be used in anger again.\" Maya then declares that Tony is no better than she is, to which Iron Man replies, \"No. But I'm trying to be... And tomorrow I'll be able to look myself in the mirror.\"\n\nExtremis is referred to as a \"virus\" throughout the story. The verbatim description offered by its inventor Maya Hansen, goes: \"...Extremis is a super-soldier solution. It's a bio-electronics package, fitted into a few billion graphite nanotubes and suspended in a carrier fluid. A magic bullet, like the original super-soldier serum—all fitted into a single injection. It hacks the body's repair center—the part of the brain that keeps a complete blue print of the human body. When we're injured, we refer to that area of the brain to heal properly. Extremis rewrites the repair center. In the first stage, the body essentially becomes an open wound. The normal human blueprint is being replaced with the Extremis blueprint. The brain is being told the body is wrong. Extremis protocol dictates that the subject be placed on life support and intravenously fed nutrients at this point. For the next two or three days, the patient remains unconscious within a cocoon of scabs. (...) Extremis uses the nutrients and body mass to grow new organs. Better ones...\"\n\nEffects of the Extremis process, apart from the changes specific to Tony Stark, included: greatly accelerated healing; immensely-boosted immune system; generation of \"new, improved organs\" (Tony's cardiovascular and respiratory systems were greatly upgraded); and, the side effect of increased aggressiveness. Tony Stark had the super-powers removed from the Extremis compiler, though, effectively 'exchanging' them for the ability to interface directly with machines and his own armor; but, Mallen retained said super-powers, resulting in his high-level super-strength, super-speed, advanced invulnerability, and the abilities to breathe fire and project arcs of electricity from his hands, as well as being bullet-proof.\n\nAs well as the obvious physical changes, Extremis also affected Stark mentally, allowing him to process information extraordinarily quickly, on a subconscious level, to help him better cope with the direct technological link he now possessed to his armor (even as his standard thought processes remained at a human norm). As a result, his brain, taking in more information than he could consciously process, began to sublimate it into his unconscious mind, causing Stark to experience occasional hallucinations of particularly relevant information, manifesting as people whose deaths he felt personally responsible for—such as Captain America or Happy Hogan—making him aware of facts that he had noted subconsciously while not recognizing their relevance or existence on a conscious level (such as that a member of the Initiative had lied about his powers or that Maya Hansen was actually alive after her death was faked). Doc Samson speculated that the hallucinations appeared because the excess information was filtered into the same place Stark subconsciously stored his guilt to stop himself facing it.\n\nWhen the Mandarin attempts to release Extremis on a large scale as part of his plan to 'reshape' the human race, it is revealed that Extremis can only be successful when used on people who possess a rare genetic sequence, found in only 2.5% of the human population. This percentage includes Tony Stark and Maya Hansen, but does not include the Mandarin. Anyone without this sequence who is exposed to Extremis will be killed by it.\n\nWhen industrialist Michael Hall attempts to create his own suits of armor based on the Carnage symbiote, Iron Man attempts to hack the suits, but Carnage is able to 'hack' Iron Man in return by using the technological/biological interface elements of Extremis.\n\nDuring the 2010 \"Stark: Disassembled\" storyline, Tony is forced to erase portions of his memory in order to prevent Norman Osborn from gaining access to the list of people registered under the Superhuman Registration Act. These actions resulted in his falling into a persistent vegetative state, in which his brain is unable to even regulate the autonomic functions of his body. During this period, Stark's colleagues play a recorded holographic message from Tony, which reveal that when the extraterrestrial Skrulls invaded Earth during the 2008 \"Secret Invasion\" storyline, they attacked Tony's Extremis, permanently shutting it down. Stark's mind is \"rebooted\" using information that he had saved when he first injected himself with Extremis, with the result that he loses all memory of the actions he had committed after receiving the Extremis upgrade, although he has spent time researching his activities between then and his restoration. Tony later discovers that his brain still has access to Extremis, which he began using again.\n\nDuring the 2012 \"Believe\" story arc, Tony learns that Maya Hansen has been killed and various new versions of Extremis have been released onto the black market, prompting him to track them down and eliminate them.\n\nThe Extremis virus is then remade by Tony's long-lost foster brother, Arno Stark.\n\nWhen Bruce Banner is shot in the head by the Ancient Order of the Shield, with his usual healing factor making an erratic job of reconstructing Banner's mind even if it can repair the physical damage, Stark is able to use Extremis to heal the damage to Banner's brain and restore him to full mental health without any of the usual side effects or powers. However, during the 2014 \"Original Sin\" storyline, when exposure to Uatu's eye after his murder causes Banner and Stark to remember that Stark had tampered with the original gamma bomb and was thus indirectly responsible for Banner's transformation into the Hulk, Banner uses a modified Extremis to trigger his transformation into the Hulk while retaining his intellect to ensure his revenge on Stark. Even after the two recognize that Tony's actions actually saved Bruce's life, Bruce modifies Extremis to modify his usual transformation, creating a new Hulk persona known as \"Doc Green\" (a form of Hulk that is similar to Bruce Banner's Merged Hulk form) who retains Bruce's intellect and the Hulk's strength. After Doc Green attacked and depowered other gamma mutants as he believed that they were a threat, the Hulk then asked Shadowcat for help to remove the physical components of the Extremis virus from his brain, eliminating a tumour that may have killed him but furthering Doc Green's development into what appears to be a contemporary incarnation of the Maestro. However, Doc Green eventually realised that his current state was only temporary and he would eventually return to normal, but an A.I. he created to facilitate his efforts at finding a cure has begun to work against him by using more Maestro-esque tactics, with Doc Green declining the option of a new Extremis upgrade for fear of becoming a new Maestro.\n\nDuring the 2014 \"AXIS\" storyline, Tony Stark experienced a moral inversion due to the Scarlet Witch making a mistake while trying to bring out Professor X in the new Red Onslaught, he experienced a new surge of his more negative traits such as his ego, irresponsibility, and alcoholism, culminating in him releasing a new version of Extremis onto San Francisco. This new version, known as the Extremis 3.0 app, could offer beauty, health or even immortality for free, but Tony subsequently ended the free trial mode and started charging the app in a daily fee basis, making the citizens desperate, prompting Pepper Potts, Daredevil, and the artificial intelligence of old Iron Man armor to make plans to stop him, based on Tony's past requests that his allies be prepared if he should ever cross a line. During the fight between Daredevil and Iron Man, Extremis is used by Iron Man to \"infect\" Daredevil with it which enabled him to see again. Daredevil subsequently realized that Stark had added the Extremis virus to San Francisco's water supply, with the phones simply transmitting a subsonic signal that activated the already-existing virus in their bodies, but Stark subjected Matt to minor brain damage to erase his memories of this discovery, intending to reprogram the activation signal to a frequency Daredevil cannot detect. This plan was ended when Pepper Potts exposed Tony's true feelings about the world after his inversion.\n\nFollowing the eight months timeskip after 2015 \"Secret Wars\", Tony Stark has returned to his normal self with no signs of his moral inversion personality. The Extremis virus remains unknown.\n\n\"Extremis\" received favorable reviews, and is often listed as one of the best Iron Man stories.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2010 Marvel Knights Animation created a motion comic with 3-D cell shading graphics. The six-part mini-series was released by Shout! Factory first on DVD, and then later coupled with \"\" on Blu-ray.\n\nA novel adaption of \"Iron Man: Extremis\" was released in May 2013 to tie with the release of the \"Iron Man 3\" film as part of the Marvel Prose Novel series, and was written and adapted by comic writer and editor Marie Javins.\n\n"}
{"id": "32909882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32909882", "title": "Far future in science fiction and popular culture", "text": "Far future in science fiction and popular culture\n\nThe far future, here defined as the time beyond the 10th millennium, has been used as a setting in many works of fiction or popular scientific speculation.\n\nThe British science fiction series \"Doctor Who\" has featured many events beyond the 10th millennium AD due to time travel being a key aspect of its format:\n\n\nFrank Herbert's \"Dune\" series spans thousands of years of distant future history in a galactic, and eventually multigalactic, setting, describing an interstellar feudal system enabled by a prescience-imbuing drug known as the spice.\n\n\nIsaac Asimov's \"Foundation\" series, comprising the union of his Robot novels, Galactic Empire novels and \"Foundation\" novels, describes a future history of humanity from 1996 to tens of thousands of years from now. The 11th millennium occurs after the end of the Robot stories.\n\n\n\"The Future is Wild\" was a speculative documentary hypothetising how life could evolve over the course of millions of years:\n\n\nOlaf Stapledon's novels \"Last and First Men\" and \"Star Maker\" are speculations on the evolution of intelligence in the universe. \"Last and First Men\" explores the future evolution of intelligence on Earth, while \"Star Maker\" explores the technological and social changes undergone by various alien species.\n\n\n\nIsaac Asimov's short story \"The Last Question\" charts the future evolution of Man as subsequent generations ask ever-more complex computers the same question: \"Can entropy be reversed?\" The story begins in 2061, when the supercomputer Multivac is asked the question and responds: \"INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR MEANINGFUL ANSWER\". The story then jumps forward to an unspecified time at least a thousand years later, in which a spaceship-borne computer is asked the same question, and gives the same answer.\n\n\nThe \"Futurama\" episode \"The Late Philip J. Fry\" concerns a journey into the far future:\n\n\nThe science fiction franchise \"Star Trek\" has made several allusions to far future events:\n\n\nH. G. Wells's novel \"The Time Machine\" concerns an anonymous Time Traveller who embarks on a journey to Earth's far future:\n\n\nThe Games Workshop-created wargaming franchise \"Warhammer  is, as its title suggests, set around the 40th millennium of its fictional universe.\n\nStephen Baxter's \"Xeelee Sequence\", a collection of novels and short stories describing Mankind's war with a superintelligent race called the Xeelee, spans a time period from the Big Bang to billions of years in the future.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37565317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37565317", "title": "Frat Rock! The Greatest Rock 'n' Roll Party Tunes of All-Time", "text": "Frat Rock! The Greatest Rock 'n' Roll Party Tunes of All-Time\n\nFrat Rock! The Greatest Rock 'n' Roll Party Tunes of All-Time is a compilation album released by Rhino Records in 1988, featuring \"frat rock\" songs from the 1950s and 1960s. Different volumes of \"Frat Rock!\" were released on vinyl and CD both before and after this release.\n"}
{"id": "2348482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2348482", "title": "Gin Craze", "text": "Gin Craze\n\nThe Gin Craze was a period in the first half of the 18th century when the consumption of gin increased rapidly in Great Britain, especially in London. Daniel Defoe commented: \"the Distillers have found out a way to hit the palate of the Poor, by their new fashion'd compound Waters called Geneva, so that the common People seem not to value the French-brandy as usual, and even not to desire it\". Many people overconsumed and the city had an epidemic of extreme drunkenness; this provoked moral outrage and a legislative backlash that some compare to the modern drug wars.\n\nParliament passed five major Acts, in 1729, 1736, 1743, 1747 and 1751, designed to control the consumption of gin. Though many similar drinks were available and alcohol consumption was considerable at all levels of society, gin caused the greatest public concern. Although it is commonly thought gin or Jenever was the singular drink, \"gin\" was a blanket statement for all grain-based alcohols at the time.\n\nGin was popularised in England following the accession of William of Orange in 1688. Gin provided an alternative to French brandy at a time of both political and religious conflict between Britain and France. Between 1689 and 1697, the Government passed a range of legislation aimed at restricting brandy imports and encouraging gin production. Most importantly, the monopoly of the London Guild of Distillers was broken in 1690, thereby opening up the market in gin distillation. The production and consumption of English gin, which was then popular amongst politicians and even Queen Anne, was encouraged by the government. This encouragement was shown in the reduced taxes on the distillation of spirits. Additionally, no licenses were needed to make spirits, so distillers of spirits could have smaller, more simple workshops than brewers, who needed to serve food and provide shelter for patrons. \n\nEconomic protectionism was a major factor in beginning the Gin Craze; as the price of food dropped and income grew, consumers suddenly had the opportunity to spend excess funds on spirits. By 1721, however, Middlesex magistrates were already decrying gin as \"the principal cause of all the vice & debauchery committed among the inferior sort of people\". In 1736, the Middlesex Magistrates complained: It is with the deepest concern your committee observe the strong Inclination of the inferior Sort of People to these destructive Liquors, and how surprisingly this Infection has spread within these few Years … it is scarce possible for Persons in low Life to go anywhere or to be anywhere, without being drawn in to taste, and, by Degrees, to like and approve of this pernicious Liquor.\n\nThe British government tried a number of times to stop the flow of gin. The Gin Act 1736 taxed retail sales at a rate of 20 shillings a gallon on spirits and required licensees to take out a £50 annual licence to sell gin, a fee equivalent to about £ today. The aim was to effectively prohibit the trade by making it economically unfeasible. Only two licences were ever taken out. The trade became illegal, consumption dipped but then continued to rise and the law was effectively repealed in 1743 following mass law-breaking and violence (particularly towards informers who were paid £5 to reveal the whereabouts of illegal gin shops). The illegally distilled gin which was produced following the 1736 Act was less reliable and more likely to result in poisoning.\n\nBy 1743, England was drinking 2.2 gallons (10 litres) of gin per person per year. As consumption levels increased, an organised campaign for more effective legislation began to emerge, led by the Bishop of Sodor and Man, Thomas Wilson, who, in 1736, had complained that gin produced a \"drunken ungovernable set of people\". Prominent anti-gin campaigners included Henry Fielding (whose 1751 \"Enquiry into the Late Increase in Robbers\" blamed gin consumption for both increased crime and increased ill health among children), Josiah Tucker, Daniel Defoe (who had originally campaigned for the liberalisation of distilling, but later complained that drunken mothers were threatening to produce a \"fine spindle-shanked generation\" of children), and – briefly – William Hogarth. Hogarth's engraving \"Gin Lane\" is a well known image of the gin craze, and is often paired with \"Beer Street\", creating a contrast between the miserable lives of gin drinkers and the healthy and enjoyable lives of beer drinkers.\n\nThe Gin Craze began to diminish after the Gin Act 1751. This Act lowered the annual licence fees, but encouraged \"respectable\" gin selling by requiring licensees to trade from premises rented for at least £10 a year. Historians suggest that gin consumption was reduced not as a result of legislation but because of the rising cost of grain. Landowners could afford to abandon the production of gin, and this fact, coupled with population growth and a series of poor harvests, resulted in lower wages and increased food prices. The Gin Craze had mostly ended by 1757. The government tried to ensure this by temporarily banning the manufacture of spirits from domestic grain. There was a resurgence of gin consumption during the Victorian era, with numerous \"Gin Palaces\" appearing. In 1840, the amount of gin consumed in London (but by that time with a population in excess of one million) finally matched that from when prohibition ended in 1743.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35860131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35860131", "title": "Gustav Bauernfeind", "text": "Gustav Bauernfeind\n\nGustav Bauernfeind (4 September 1848, Sulz am Neckar - 24 December 1904, Jerusalem) was a German painter, illustrator and architect of partly Jewish origin. He is considered to be one of the most notable Orientalist painters of Germany.\n\nAfter completing his architectural studies at the Polytechnic Institute in Stuttgart, he worked in the architectural firm of Professor Wilhelm Bäumer and later in that of Adolph Gnauth, where he also learned painting. In his earlier paintings, Bauernfeind focused on local views of Germany, as well as motifs from Italy. During his journey to the Levant from 1880 to 1882, he became interested in the Orient and repeated his travels again and again. In 1896 he moved with his wife and son all the way to Palestine and subsequently settled in Jerusalem in 1898. He also lived and worked in Lebanon and Syria.\n\nHis work is characterized primarily by architectural views of Jerusalem and the Holy Land. The paintings of Bauernfeind are mostly meticulously crafted, intricately composed and almost photographically accurate cityscapes and images of known sanctuaries in oil. In addition, he produced landscape scenes and watercolours. During his lifetime he was the most popular Orientalist painter of Germany, but soon fell into oblivion after his death. However, since the early 1980s, Bauernfeind was gradually rediscovered, with his paintings appearing at auctions with high prices. Thus, his oil painting \"The Wailing Wall\" was sold at Christie's in London for the equivalent of €326,000 in 1992. The same painting would reach at Sotheby's in London the equivalent of €4.5 million in a later auction in 2007. In 1997, another oil painting of Bauernfeind, \"The Port of Jaffa\", was sold at the Van Ham Kunstauktionen in Cologne for 1,510,000 DM, thus becoming the most expensive 19th-century painting ever sold in Germany.\nAt his birthplace in Sulz am Neckar, the life and work of the painter is commemorated by the Gustav Bauernfeind Museum with a large permanent exhibition.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58099402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58099402", "title": "Hyphenated ethnicity", "text": "Hyphenated ethnicity\n\nA hyphenated ethnicity or hyphenated identity is a reference to an ethnicity combined with the name of the country of residence. The term is an extension of the term \"hyphenated American\". The term refers to the use of a hyphen between the name of an ethnicity and the name of the country in compound nouns: Irish-American, etc., although modern English language style guides recommend dropping the hyphen: \"Irish American\".\n\nThe concept should not be confused with that of mixed ethnicity and multiraciality, i.e., the ethnicity or race of a person who parents have different ethnicities/races, which can also be written in a hyphenated way.\n\nThe term \"hyphenated American\" originated in 1890s and was used disparagingly as a reference to immigrants who, by brandishing their ethnic origin, allegedly demonstrated an incomplete allegiance to the United States, especially during the World War I period.\n\nJeffrey Lesser wrote: \"While there is no linguistic categories that acknowledge hyphenated ethnicity (a third generation Brzilian or Japanese descendent remains 'Japanese' while a fourth-generation Brazilian of Lebanese descent may become a \"turco\", an \"arabe\", a \"sirio\", or a \"sirio-libanese\"), in fact immigrant communities aggressively tried to negotiate a status that allowed for both Brazilian nationality and ethnic difference\". \n\n"}
{"id": "10309648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10309648", "title": "Icelandic phonology", "text": "Icelandic phonology\n\nUnlike many languages, Icelandic has only very minor dialectal differences in sounds. The language has both monophthongs and diphthongs, and many consonants can be voiced or unvoiced.\n\nIcelandic has an aspiration contrast between plosives, rather than a voicing contrast, similar to Standard Chinese. Preaspirated voiceless stops are also common. However, fricative and sonorant consonant phonemes exhibit regular contrasts in voice, including in nasals (rare in the world's languages). Additionally, length is contrastive for consonants, but not vowels. In Icelandic, the main stress is always on the first syllable.\n\nThe number and nature of the consonant phonemes in modern Icelandic is subject to broad disagreement, due to a complex relationship among consonant allophones.\n\nEven the number of major allophones is subject to some dispute, although less than for phonemes. The following is a chart of potentially contrastive \"phones\" (important phonetic distinctions which minimally contrast in some positions with known phonemes; \"not\" a chart of actual phonemes), according to one analysis :\n\n\nA large number of competing analyses have been proposed for Icelandic phonemes. The problems stem from complex but regular alternations and mergers among the above phones in various positions.\n\nExamples of alternations across different positions:\n\n\nThe \"glottal fricative\" (actually a placeless approximant) only occurs initially before a vowel, and following a vowel in the sequences . These latter sequences are sometimes said to be unitary \"pre-aspirated\" stops; see below.\n\nThe voiceless velar fricative occurs only between a vowel and or , and initially as a variant of before . Because it does not contrast with in either position, it can be seen as an allophone of .\n\nThere are two sets of palatal sounds. \"Alternating palatals\" alternate with the velars , while \"non-alternating palatals\" do not. Note that appears twice here; these two 's behave differently, occur in different distributions, and are denoted by different letters (\"g\" and \"j\"). This suggests that they may belong to different phonemes, and that is indeed a common analysis.\n\nIn general, the alternating palatals are restricted to appearing before vowels. Velars ( are restricted to appearing everywhere except before front vowels. In other words: Before back vowels and front rounded vowels, both palatals and velars can appear; before front unrounded vowels only palatals can appear; before consonants only velars can appear.\n\nFor the non-alternating palatals : Both can appear at the beginning of a word, followed by a vowel. Elsewhere, only one can occur, which must occur after a non-velar, non-palatal consonant. occurs before a vowel, and occurs in a few words at the end of a word following .\n\nThe velars and alternating palatals are distributed as follows:\n\nAlthough the facts are complex, it can be noticed that only ever contrasts with one of the two velar stops, never with both, and hence can be taken as an allophone of whichever one doesn't appear in a given context. Alternatively, following the orthography, can be taken as an allophone of , where is taken as an allophone of either or depending on context, following the orthography.\n\nIn native vocabulary, the fricatives and are allophones of a single phoneme . is used morpheme-initially, as in \"þak\" ('roof'), and before a voiceless consonant, as in \"maðkur\" ('worm'). is used intervocalically, as in \"iða\" ('vortex') and word-finally, as in \"bað\" ('bath'), although it can be devoiced to before pause. Some loanwords (mostly from Classical Greek) have introduced the phone in intervocalic environments, as in \"Aþena\" ('Athens').\n\nThe phone is actually a laminal voiceless alveolar non-sibilant fricative . The corresponding voiced phone is similar, but is apical rather than laminal .\n\nOf the voiceless sonorants , only occur in word-initial position, for example in \"hné\" ('knee'). Only in initial position do the voiceless sonorants contrast with the corresponding voiced sonorants. Finally, before aspirated consonants and after voiceless consonants only the voiceless sonorants appear; elsewhere, only the voiced sonorants appear. This makes it clear that are non-phonemic. Recently, there has been an increasing tendency, especially among children, to pronounce initial \"hn\" as voiced, e.g. \"hnífur\" ('knife') rather than standard .\n\nThe palatal nasals appear before palatal stops and the velar nasals before velar stops; in these positions, the alveolar nasals do not occur. appears also before and through the deletion of in the consonant clusters and . The palatal nasals are clearly non-phonemic, although there is some debate about due to the common deletion of .\n\nModern Icelandic is often said to have a rare kind of stops, the so-called \"pre-aspirated stops\" (e.g. \"löpp\" 'foot'), which occur only after a vowel and do not contrast with sequences (which do not occur in Icelandic). note that phonetically, in Icelandic pre-aspirated stops the aspiration is longer than in normal post-aspirated stops, and is indistinguishable from sequences (or with replacing ) occurring in other languages; hence, they prefer to analyze the pre-aspirated stops as sequences. For example, Icelandic \"nótt\", \"dóttir\" correspond to German \"Nacht\", \"Tochter\".\n\nFollowing vowels there is a complex alternation among consonant length, vowel length and aspiration. The following table shows the alternations in medial and final position :\n\nIn most analyses, consonant length is seen as phonemic while vowel length is seen as determined entirely by environment, with long vowels occurring in stressed syllables before single consonants and before certain sequences formed of a consonant plus , and short vowels occurring elsewhere. Note that diphthongs also occur long and short.\n\nAs discussed above, the phones , probably , and debatably are non-phonemic. Beyond this, there is a great deal of debate both about the number and identity of the phonemes in Icelandic and the mapping between phonemes and allophones.\n\nThere are a number of different approaches:\n\nPhonetic vs. orthographic:\n\n\nMaximalist vs. minimalist:\n\n\nThe main advantage of the phonetic approach is its simplicity compared with the orthographic approach. A major disadvantage, however, is that it results in a large number of unexplained lexical and grammatical alternations. Under the orthographic approach, for example (especially if a minimalist approach is also adopted), all words with the root \"sag-/seg-\" ('say') have a phonemic , despite the varying phones occurring in different lexical and inflectional forms, and similarly all words with the root \"sak-\" ('blame') have a phonemic , despite the varying phones . Under the phonetic approach, however, the phonemes would vary depending on the context is complicated and seemingly arbitrary ways. Similarly, an orthographic analysis of three words for \"white\", \"hvítur\" \"hvít\" \"hvítt\" ( sg, sg, ) as allows for a simple analysis of the forms as a root plus endings and successfully explains the surface alternation , which would not be possible in a strictly phonetic approach.\n\nAssuming a basically orthographic approach, the set of phonemes in Icelandic is as follows:\n\nThe parentheses indicate phonemes present in a maximalist analysis but not a minimalist analysis.\n\nThere is a particular amount of debate over the status of and . A maximalist analysis sees them as separate phonemes (e.g. and , respectively), while in a minimalist analysis they are allophones of and before front unrounded vowels, and of the sequences and before rounded vowels, in accordance with the orthography. The maximalist approach accords with the presence of minimal pairs like \"gjóla\" ('light wind') vs. \"góla\" ('howl') and \"kjóla\" ('dresses') vs. \"kóla\" ('cola'), along with general speakers' intuitions. However, the minimalist approach (e.g. ) accounts for some otherwise unexplained gaps in the system (e.g. the absence of palatal/velar contrasts except before rounded vowels, and the absence of phonetic after velars and palatals), as well as otherwise unexplained alternations between palatals and velars in e.g. \"segi\" ('[I] say') vs. \"sagði\" ('[I] said'; assuming that and are taken as allophones of palatal and velar stops, respectively). On the other hand, the number of such alternations is not as great as for stop vs. fricative alternations; most lexical items consistently have either velars or palatals.\n\nThe voiceless sonorants are straightforwardly taken as allophones of voiced sonorants in most positions, because of lack of any contrast; similarly for vs. . On the other hand, do contrast with in initial position, suggesting that they may be phonemes in this position, consistent with a maximalist analysis. A minimalist analysis, however, would note the restricted distribution of these phonemes, the lack of contrast in this position with sequences and the fact that similar sequences do occur, and analyze as , in accordance with the orthography.\n\nThe velar nasal is clearly an allophone of before a velar stop. When it occurs before or as a result of deletion of an intervening , however, some scholars analyze it as a phoneme , while others analyze it as a sequence, e.g. .\n\nThere is less disagreement over the vowel phonemes in Icelandic than the consonant phonemes. The Old Icelandic vowel system involving phonemic length was transformed to the modern system where phonetic length is automatically determined by the syllable structure. In the process of eliminating vowel length, however, relatively few vowel distinctions have been lost, as the loss of phonemic length has been offset by an increase in the number of quality distinctions and diphthongs.\n\n\nVowel length is mostly predictable in Icelandic . Stressed vowels (both monophthongs and diphthongs) are long:\nBefore other consonant clusters (including the preaspirated stops and geminate consonants), stressed vowels are short. Unstressed vowels are always short.\n\n"}
{"id": "36695581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36695581", "title": "Indian Institute of Islamic Studies", "text": "Indian Institute of Islamic Studies\n\nThe Indian Institute of Islamic Studies is an Islamic studies institute, in New Delhi Established in 1963, by prominent Muslim leaders including Hakeem Abdul Hameed, who later founded the Jamia Hamdard university, the Institute entrusted to preserve the Islamic tradition and culture in India. In addition to this institute also promoting studies and research in Islam as well as comparative studies. It is the repository of many collections on Islam, mostly written in Persian and Arabic languages, and also publishes a quarterly journal, \"Studies in Islam \"\n\nThe institute was also instrumental in the funding of Delhi-based, India Islamic Cultural Centre (IICC) in 1984.\n\n"}
{"id": "30046996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046996", "title": "Influence of Sesame Street", "text": "Influence of Sesame Street\n\nThe children's television program \"Sesame Street\" premiered in 1969 to high ratings, positive reviews, and some controversy, which have continued during its history. Even though the show aired on only 67% of American televisions at the time of its premiere, it earned a 3.3 Nielsen rating, or 1.9 million households. By its tenth anniversary in 1979, 9 million American children under the age of six were watching \"Sesame Street\" daily. Its ratings declined in the 1990s, due to societal changes. A survey conducted in 1996 found that by the age of three, 95% of all American children had watched it. By its fortieth anniversary in 2009, it was ranked the fifteenth most popular children's show.\n\nAccording to writer Michael Davis, \"Sesame Street\" is \"perhaps the most vigorously researched, vetted, and fretted-over program\". By 2001, there were over 1,000 research studies regarding its efficacy, impact, and effect on American culture. Two landmark summative evaluations, conducted by the Educational Testing Service (ETS) in 1970 and 1971, demonstrated that \"Sesame Street\" had a significant educational impact on its viewers. Additional studies conducted throughout the show's history demonstrated that the show continued to have a positive effect on its young viewers.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" has also been the subjects of many controversies throughout its long run on television. In 1970, a commission in Mississippi voted to exclude the show from its state educational TV programming. The controversy surrounding the show stemmed from cultural and historical reasons regarding children and television's effect on them. Latino and feminists groups criticized \"Sesame Street\" for its depictions of some groups, but its producers have worked to address their concerns throughout the years. By 2009, \"Sesame Street\" had received 118 Emmy Awards, more than any other television series.\n\nWhen \"Sesame Street\" premiered in 1969, it aired on only 67.6% of American televisions, but it earned a 3.3 Nielsen rating, or 1.9 million households. The Children's Television Workshop (CTW), the organization that oversaw the production of \"Sesame Street\", insisted that its seemingly low ratings were misleading. They found that although a small percentage of all viewers watched \"Sesame Street\", approximately a quarter of all preschoolers watched it regularly. Ninety percent of households who viewed the show had children under the age of six.\n\nIn the winter of 1970, partly as a response to criticism that they were not reaching their intended audience, the CTW conducted a poll of four urban neighborhoods in New York, Chicago, and Washington, D.C. The results of the poll were positive in three out of the four neighborhoods and confirmed the show's high viewership. \"Sesame Street's\" high ratings increased during its second season, and Nielsen reported high audience loyalty. Gerald S. Lesser, CTW's first advisory board chair, reported rumors about the show becoming a fad among college students. Its ratings steadily increased for the first five seasons, and Nielsen reported that \"Sesame Street\" had the highest ratings of any PBS program. In 1985, the Workshop estimated that 20% of its regular viewers consisted of adults.\n\nBy the show's tenth anniversary in 1979, 9 million American children under the age of six were watching \"Sesame Street\" daily. Four out of five children had watched it over a six-week period, and 90% of children from low-income inner-city homes regularly viewed the show. According to a 1993 survey conducted by the US Department of Education, out of the show's 6.6 million viewers, 2.4 million kindergartners regularly watched it. 77% of preschoolers watched it once a week, and 86% of kindergartners, first-, and second-grade students had watched it once a week before starting school. The show reached most young children in almost all demographic groups, most significantly economically disadvantaged children; 88% of children from low-income families and 90% of both African-American and Latino children watched the show before entering kindergarten. Over 80% of children from all minority language groups watched it before starting school. Children from the poorest communities were most likely to be regular viewers, as were younger children. Children whose parents did not read to them regularly were less likely to be regular viewers, and children of highly educated parents stopped viewing earlier than children from disadvantaged households.\n\nThe show's ratings significantly decreased in the early 1990s, when children' viewing habits and the television marketplace had changed. In 1969, the choices in children's programming were limited, but the growth of the home-video industry during the 1980s and the boom in children's programming during the 90s on cable channels like Nickelodeon, which were directly influenced by \"Sesame Street\", resulted in lower ratings for \"Sesame Street\". In 2002, \"The New York Times\" reported that \"learning to click the remote control has become a developmental milestone, like crawling and walking\". The producers responded to these societal changes by making large-scale structural changes to the show.\n\nBy 2006, \"Sesame Street\" had become \"the most widely viewed children's television show in the world\", with 20 international independent versions and broadcasts in over 120 countries. A 1996 survey found that 95% of all American preschoolers had watched the show by the time they were three years old. In 2006, it was estimated that 75 million Americans had watched the series as children. By the show's 40th anniversary in 2009, it was ranked the fifteenth most popular children's show on television.\n\nAccording to Davis, \"Sesame Street\" is \"perhaps the most vigorously researched, vetted, and fretted-over program\". By 2001, there were over 1,000 research studies regarding its efficacy, impact, and effect on American culture. The CTW solicited the Educational Testing Service (ETS) to conduct its summative research. ETS' two \"landmark\" summative evaluations, conducted in 1970 and 1971, demonstrated that \"Sesame Street\" had a significant educational impact on its viewers. These studies provided the majority of the early educational effects of \"Sesame Street\" and have been cited in other studies of the effects of television on young children. Additional studies conducted throughout \"Sesame Street's\" history demonstrated that the show continued to have a positive effect on its young viewers.\n\nLesser believed that \"Sesame Street\" research \"may have conferred a new respectability upon the studies of the effects of visual media upon children\". He also believed that the show had the same effect on the prestige in the television industry of producing shows for children. Historian Robert Morrow, in his book \"Sesame Street and the Reform of Children's Television\", which chronicled the show's influence on children's television and on the television industry as a whole, reported that many critics of commercial television saw \"Sesame Street\" as a \"straightforward illustration for reform\". Les Brown, a writer for \"Variety\", saw in \"Sesame Street\" \"a hope for a more substantial future\" for television.\n\nThe networks responded by creating more high-quality television programs, but that many saw them as \"appeasement gestures\". In spite of the CTW's effectiveness in creating a popular show, commercial television \"made only a limited effort to emulate CTW's methods\", and did not use a curriculum or evaluate what children learned from them. Morrow reported that by the mid-1970s, commercial television abandoned their experiments with creating better children's programming. Other critics hoped that \"Sesame Street\", with its depiction of a functioning, multicultural community, would nurture racial tolerance in its young viewers.\n\nAs critic Richard Roeper has stated, perhaps one of the strongest indicators of the influence of \"Sesame Street\" have been the enduring rumors and urban legends surrounding the show and its characters, especially about Bert and Ernie.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was praised from its debut in 1969. \"Newsday\" reported that several newspapers and magazines had written \"glowing\" reports about CTW and co-creator Joan Ganz Cooney. Although the series had been on the air for less than a year, \"Time Magazine\" featured Big Bird, who had received more fan mail than any of the show's human hosts, on its cover and declared, \" ...It is not only the best children's show in TV history, it is one of the best parents' shows as well\". The press overwhelmingly praised the new show; several popular magazines and niche magazines lauded it. A 2010 survey found that most parents supported their children's viewing of \"Sesame Street\" and other PBS educational shows, and many educators used them as aides in the classroom.\n\n\"\"Sesame Street\" is...with lapses, the most intelligent and important program in television. That is not anything much yet\".\n-Renata Adler, \"The New Yorker\", 1972\n\nDavid Frost declared \"Sesame Street\" \"a hit everywhere it goes\". An executive at ABC, while recognizing that \"Sesame Street\" was not perfect, stated that the show \"opened children's TV to taste and wit and substance\"... and \"made the climate right for improvement\". By the end of the show's first season, ratings were high, the song \"Rubber Duckie\" was on the music charts for nine weeks, and Big Bird appeared on \"The Flip Wilson Show\". Also in 1970, \"Sesame Street\" won twenty awards, including a Peabody Award, three Emmys, an award from the Public Relations Society of America, a Clio, and the Prix Jeunesse award. President Richard Nixon sent Cooney a congratulatory letter. Dr. Benjamin Spock predicted that the program would result in \"better trained citizens, fewer unemployables in the next generation, fewer people on welfare, and smaller jail populations\". By 1995, the show had won two Peabody Awards and four Parents' Choice Awards. In addition, it was the subject of retrospectives at the Smithsonian Institution and the Museum of Modern Art. In 2011, puppeteer Kevin Clash was the subject of the documentary \"\". The documentary, directed by Constance Marks, received several awards, including the 2011 Black Film Critics Circle Award and the Special Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival, where it premiered. By 2009, the series had received 118 Emmy Awards, more than any other television series.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was not without its detractors, however. In May 1970, a state commission in Mississippi voted to exclude to host the show on its state educational TV network owing to concerns over the show's inclusive racial message. A member of the commission told the \"New York Times,\" that \"Mississippi was not yet ready\" for the show's integrated cast. Cooney called the commission's decision \"a tragedy for both the white and black children of Mississippi\". The Mississippi commission later reversed its decision, after the vote had made national news.\n\nAccording to \"Children and Television\", Lesser's account of the development and early years of \"Sesame Street\", there was little criticism of the show in the months following its premiere, but it increased at the end of its first season and beginning of the second season. Lesser put the early criticism into four categories: educational goals, how the goals were chosen and obtained, the show's possible unintended effects, and its portrayal of minorities and women. Historian Robert W. Morrow suggested that much of the early criticism, which he called \"surprisingly intense\", stemmed from cultural and historical reasons in regards to, as he put it, \"the place of children in American society and the controversies about television's effects on them\".\n\nThe \"most important\" studies that found negative effects of \"Sesame Street\" were conducted by educator Herbert A. Sprigle and psychologist Thomas D. Cook during its first two seasons. Both studies found that the show increased the educational gap between poor and middle-class children. Morrow reported that these studies had little impact on the public discussion about \"Sesame Street\". Social scientist and Head Start founder Urie Bronfenbrenner criticized the show for being too wholesome, stating, \"The old, the ugly or the unwanted is simply made to disappear through a manhole\". He also criticized the show for presenting bland and unrealistic characters, and for failing to teach children about social relationships and how to become a part of the society around them. Psychologist Leon Eisenberg saw \"Sesame Street's\" urban setting as \"superficial\" and having little to do with the problems confronted by the inner-city child.\n\nHead Start director Edward Zigler was probably \"Sesame Street's\" most vocal critic in the show's early years. He withdrew Head Start's funding of the show, becoming the first of CTW's original investors to do so. Morrow stated that the basis of Zigler's criticism was concern that the federal government would transfer their funding of Head Start to CTW. Also according to Morrow, these studies were utilized by critics in \"Sesame Street's\" later years, especially by child development psychologists Jerome and Dorothy G. Singer, who insisted the television shortened children's attention spans, and by author Neil Postman in his book \"Amusing Ourselves to Death\", who believed that television could not teach children. Postman claimed that \"Sesame Street\" also introduced children to a shallow pop culture, undermined American education, and relieved parents of their responsibility of teaching their children how to read.\n\nSince federal funds had been used to produce the show, more segments of the population insisted upon being represented on \"Sesame Street.\" Morrow credited CTW's commitment to multiculturalism as one source for their conflicts with the leadership of minority groups, especially Latino groups and feminists. These conflicts were resolved when the CTW added or substituted offending segments and characters. By 1977, the cast consisted of two African American women, one of whom was single, two African American men, a Chicano man, two white men, an American Indian woman, a Puerto Rican woman, and a Deaf white woman.\n\nLatino groups criticized the show for the lack of Hispanic characters during its early years. A committee of Hispanic activists, commissioned by the CTW in 1970, called Sesame Street \"racist\" and said that the show's bilingual aspects were of \"poor quality and patronizing\". According to Morrow, Cooney admitted that the show's bilingual elements were \"not well thought out\". By 1971, the CTW hired Hispanic actors, production staff, and researchers, and by the mid-70s, Morrow reported that \"the show included Chicano and Puerto Rican cast members, films about Mexican holidays and foods, and cartoons that taught Spanish words\". In 1989, \"Sesame Street\" created a four-year \"race relations curriculum\" that focused on introducing its viewers to various cultural backgrounds.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that creating strong female characters \"that make kids laugh, but not...as female stereotypes\" has been a challenge for the producers of \"Sesame Street\". Davis reported that the National Organization for Women (NOW) expressed concerns that the show needed to be \"less male-oriented\". Members of NOW were \"rankled by the portrayal of Susan, whom they saw as a subservient, powerless dispenser of milk and cookies\". In the spring of 1970, \"Boston Globe\" columnist Ellen Goodman objected to what she considered \"Sesame Street's\" portrayal of women and girls as passive. In late 1970, the NOW threatened to boycott the show. The show's producers satisfied these critics by making Susan a nurse and by hiring a female writer.\n\nAccording to Morrow, change regarding how women and girls were depicted on \"Sesame Street\" occurred slowly. CTW's research staff, which were mostly made up of women, worked with the mostly male production staff to raise their consciousnesses about how women and girls were portrayed in their scripts. Another source of friction between the CTW and feminists were the lack of female Muppets, for which they held Jim Henson responsible, as well as his organization of all-male puppeteers, who tended to create male characters. The demanding production schedule tended to attract only men, and Henson expressed his opinion that women were incapable of withstanding it. Gikow believed that the difficulty creating breakout Muppet characters was due to children's viewing styles: girls have tended to become attached to male characters they like, but boys did not tend to form the same attachments to female characters. The show's inventory of material, some of which many feminists found sexist and which were shown over and over, were slowly replaced by new, less sexist segments. As more female Muppets performers like Fran Brill, Stephanie D'Abruzzo, and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph were hired and trained, stronger female characters like Abby Cadabby were created. As an interesting contrast, \"Sesame Street\" was also chastised by a Louisiana critic for the presence of strong single women on the show.\n\nIn 1995, journalist Kay Hymowitz called \"Sesame Street\" \"a triumph of appearance over substance\" and credited its success not with quality, but with \"a combination of savvy timing, sophisticated image making, and vigorous promotion\". She held the show partly responsible for the declining verbal abilities of American students, and accused the show of affirming negative stereotypes about women. According to Hymowitz, the show's creators discouraged children's natural curiosity about the world. She criticized the show for, instead of transforming television, being \"devoured\" by it. She took issue with its use of cultural references, stating that the show taught young children to embrace the negative values of commercialism, celebrity, and anti-intellectualism. She insisted that by using television's production values, the producers of \"Sesame Street\" emphasized their \"jazzy medium\" more than the educational content they were supposed to convey. Hymowitz took issue with the show's educational claims, stating that \"Sesame Street\" diminished young children's readiness for reading by limiting their abilities to engage in analytical and creative thinking. She reported that most of the positive research conducted on the show has been done by the CTW, and then sent to a sympathetic press. She charged that the studies conducted by the CTW \"hint at advocacy masquerading as social science\".\n\nIn 2003, one of \"Sesame Street's\" international co-productions, \"Takalani Sesame\", caused some controversy in the US when the first HIV-positive Muppet, Kami, was created in response to South Africa's AIDS epidemic. It marked the first time AIDS and the goal of confronting the disease's stigma was included in a preschool curriculum. According to the documentary, \"The World According to Sesame Street\", the reaction of many in the US surprised Sesame Workshop. Some members of Congress attacked \"Sesame Street\", Sesame Workshop, and PBS. According to co-producer Naila Farouky, \"The reaction we got in the US blew me away. I didn't expect people to be so horrible... and hateful and mean\". The controversy in the US was short-lived, and died down when the public discovered the facts about the South African co-production, and when United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and prominent minister and conservative political commentator Jerry Falwell praised the Workshop's efforts. Kami went on to be named UNICEF's Champion for Children in November 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "14889055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14889055", "title": "Information grazing", "text": "Information grazing\n\nInformation grazing refers to the ability to quickly obtain knowledge and facts just in time to solve new problems or answer questions. \"Information grazing\" can also be \"information jumping\", jumping from site to site and cherry-picking information seems to \"rewire\" the brain to deleterious effects or focus on something long enough to fully understand all its implications.\n\nUnlike traditional learning, where learning a subject in depth was necessary to draw enough pertinent knowledge to solve new problems or answer questions, information grazing assumes some subjects are so large, fast-changing, interdependent, or esoteric, that traditional methods of learning may be unable to solve new problems or answer questions as efficiently. Information grazing is also one of the most commonly used coping techniques for stress and experts have noticed a trend with people many under the age of 35.\n\nThe change from a traditional in-depth learning and memorizing of facts to a mentality of quickly finding, using, and then forgetting knowledge, stems from the technological singularity concept that information is growing so fast (see information explosion or information overload) that an individual can no longer hope to be a \"renaissance man\" or effectively keep up with some fields of knowledge. Examples of fields of knowledge that are more susceptible to information grazing techniques are science and engineering, where the “newest” knowledge has become so dynamic, that documentation and dissemination has increasingly moved from fixed paper media to digital formats allowing easier updating and searchability. With the advent of the Internet and modern computer-cataloging of libraries, vast sums of knowledge are easily accessible in overwhelming quantities in real time. And, with expected future advances in search engine technology and library services, the trend of information overload is expected to worsen; information grazing techniques will become more prevalent to deal with the overload.\n\nDisadvantages of information grazing come from its advantages. Switching from a \"fixed\" source of information that is constant, verifiable, and worth memorizing to \"fluid\" sources that are always in flux can lead to quick solutions that are unverified or worse, incorrect. Studies have shown that many people don't read past the first sentences of a Web site's content, and many never go beyond the first ten links listed in a search. As information becomes more like an instantaneous consumable item, memorization is less fact-based but more procedural (i.e. how to find it). Similar concepts are found in Japanese education where after intense study of many unconnected facts, most of the information is forgotten or if remembered, not connected to other relevant facts. In the USA, this is similar to cramming an exam. Information grazing may have the same effect but greater, since it is done over the period of years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12606624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12606624", "title": "Intercultural Pragmatics", "text": "Intercultural Pragmatics\n\nIntercultural Pragmatics is a peer-reviewed academic journal published quarterly by Mouton de Gruyter. It covers both theoretical and practical aspects of pragmatics in an intercultural context, aiming at promoting discussion among researchers within different disciplines, such as theoretical and applied linguistics, psychology and communication studies.\n\nThe journal was established in 2004. The current editor-in-chief is István Kecskés (University at Albany, SUNY).\n"}
{"id": "15541688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15541688", "title": "Library Associates Companies", "text": "Library Associates Companies\n\nLAC Group, formerly known as Library Associates Companies (LAC), is a library services vendor, providing staffing, recruiting, consulting, and other services, to academic, public, special,\nmedical, and law libraries. LAC Group's service lines of business include: Consulting & Project Management, Information & Asset Management, Library Staffing & Research Services, Legal Staffing, Managed Services, and Recruiting.\n\nLAC Group was founded in 1986 by Deb Schwarz as a staffing agency specializing in law libraries.\n\nBy 1989, it was offering technical services and serving other academic and other special \nlibraries. In 1999, Library Associates caused a stir in library circles and gained national attention when they were selected by Pillsbury Madison & Sutro LLP to manage their library operations.\n\nThe company continued its expansion into different markets with its acquisition of Medical Library Consultants (MLC) from Betsey Beamish in 2001 and of Sanad Support Technologies from Jodi \nand Fuad Suleiman in 2003. With the acquisition of Sanad, Library Associates consisted of two divisions, Library Associates and Library Associates of Maryland. In 2007, the divisions were integrated and the company name was changed to Library Associates Companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32383765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32383765", "title": "Library and Archival Exhibitions on the Web", "text": "Library and Archival Exhibitions on the Web\n\nLibrary and Archival Exhibitions on the Web is an international database of online exhibitions which is a service of the Smithsonian Institution Libraries.\nTwo categories of online exhibitions are included in the database: exhibitions created by libraries, archives, historical societies, and other scholarly institutions; and museum exhibitions with major emphasis on library and archival materials.\n\nSeveral of these online exhibitions were originally created to accompany exhibitions physically situated at their respective institutions, but a growing percentage exist solely in remotely accessible format. The database is searchable by title, subject, and sponsoring institution.\n\nThe website is based on an online guide to library exhibits on the web, created by Andrea Bean Hough in 1995. The guide was maintained by the University of Houston Libraries until it had grown to some 350 links in 1998–99 and staffing considerations made it necessary for the University to discontinue participation in the project. Since then, the guide has been curated by Diane Shaw, Special Collections Librarian at the Smithsonian Institution Libraries. As of 2011, it has grown to include over 6,000 links to online exhibitions.\n\n, a publication of the Association of College and Research Libraries, awarded \"Editor's Pick\" to the database in August 2010, saying it was \"the most comprehensive source for existing digital exhibitions.\" It was also listed under \"Best of the Web\" by New York Public Library and had previously been rewarded \"Site of the Month\" by \"LibrarySpot\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26093383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26093383", "title": "List of militaries that recruit foreigners", "text": "List of militaries that recruit foreigners\n\nThis is a List of militaries that recruit foreign applicants. This includes any individuals who are aliens of the state whose armed forces they are being recruited to join by professional recruiters. The foreigners need not be legal residents of that nation, but may gain legal residence status by joining the armed forces.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42948380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42948380", "title": "List of wu shamans", "text": "List of wu shamans\n\nWu () shaman are spirit mediums who have practiced divination, prayer, sacrifice, rainmaking, and healing in Chinese traditions dating back over 3,000 years. Various wu shaman are known from thousands of years of Chinese folk religion, mythology, and poetry. Individually and collectively they form an important part of the world's cultural heritage.\n\nThe Chinese word \"wu\" 巫 \"spirit medium; shaman; shamaness; sorcerer; doctor; proper names\" was first recorded during the Shang dynasty (ca. 1600-1046 BCE), when a \"wu\" could be either sex. \"Shaman\" is the common English translation of Chinese \"wu\", but some scholars (de Groot 1910, Mair 1990:35) maintain that the Siberian \"shaman\" and Chinese \"wu\" were historically and culturally different shamanic traditions. Arthur Waley (1955:9) defines \"wu\" as \"spirit-intermediary\" and says, \"Indeed the functions of the Chinese \"wu\" were so like those of Siberian and Tunguz shamans that it is convenient (as has indeed been done by Far Eastern and European writers) to use shaman as a translation of \"wu\". In contrast, Schiffeler (1976:20) describes the \"untranslatableness\" of \"wu\", and prefers using the romanization \"\"wu\" instead of its contemporary English counterparts, \"witches,\" \"warlocks,\" or \"shamans\",\" which have misleading connotations. Taking \"wu\" to mean \"female shaman\", Edward H. Schafer translates it as (1951:153) \"shamaness\" and (1980:11) \"shamanka\". The transliteration-translation \"\"wu\" shaman\" or \"\"wu\"-shaman\" (Unschuld 1985:344) implies \"Chinese\" specifically and \"shamanism\" generally. \"Wu\", concludes Falkenhausen (1995:280), \"may be rendered as \"shaman\" or, perhaps, less controversially as \"spirit medium\".\" Paper (1995:85) criticizes \"the majority of scholars\" who use one word \"shaman\" to translate many Chinese terms (\"wu\" 巫, \"xi\" 覡, \"yi\" 毉, \"xian\" 仙, and \"zhu\" 祝), and writes, \"The general tendency to refer to all ecstatic religious functionaries as shamans blurs functional differences.\" The word \"shaman\" is often pluralized as \"shamans\", especially in old school sources, but may also be formed into a plural without morphological change, as just \"shaman\". The \"-man\" ending is distinct from the English word \"man\", referring to a human being, although some speakers may treat it as such.\n\nIn the \"Li Sao\", two individual shaman are specified.\n\n\nThis Wu Xian may or may not be the same as the (one or more) historical person(s) named Wu Xian. Hawkes suggests an equation of the word \"ling\" in the Chu dialect with the word \"wu\".(46 and 84)\n\nIn some cases, the individual wu shaman are known from sources, such as the \"Shanhaijing\" (\"Classic of Mountains and Seas\"). The name of some individual shaman includes \"Wu\" (巫) in the normal position of the family surname, for example, in the case of the following list, where the 6 are depicted together reviving a corpse, with Wu Peng holding the Herb of Immortality.(Hawkes:45 and 230-231):\n\n\nWu Peng and Wu Yang and others are also known from the \"Chu Ci\" poetry anthology. Wu Yang is the major speaker in \"Zhao Hun\" (also known as, \"Summons for the Soul\").\n\nThe Lingshan 10 are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5206914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5206914", "title": "Marchand-mercier", "text": "Marchand-mercier\n\nA marchand-mercier is a French term for a type of entrepreneur working outside the guild system of craftsmen but carefully constrained by the regulations of a \"corporation\" under rules codified in 1613. The reduplicative term literally means a merchant of merchandise, but in the 18th century took the connotation of a merchant of \"objets d'art\". Earliest references to this \"Corps de la Ville de Paris\" can be found at the close of the 16th century, but in the 18th century marchands-merciers were shopkeepers but they also played an important role in the decoration of Paris homes. In fact, they served as general contractors, designing and commissioning pieces of the most fashionable furniture, and often, in addition, worked outside of their shops as interior decorators, responsible for many aspects of a room's decor. In Paris, the guild system, in place since the late Middle Ages, prohibited craftsmen from working with any material with which they had not undergone a formal apprenticeship. Only a marchand-mercier who worked outside of the guild system, therefore, could mount Chinese porcelains with gilt-bronze handles and stands, fit the cabinetmaker's furniture with Japanese lacquer or Sèvres porcelain plaques, and supply furniture with opulent gilt-bronze (or ormolu) mounts.\n\nThe general lines permitted to their \"métier\" were set out under Charles IX, in 1570, as: \n\"Wholesale merchants, drapers and jewelers, in such way that under this status of wholesaler (\"estat de grossier\") have been included at all times the merchants of cloth of gold, of silver, of silk... tapestries, jewellery, spiced goods, textiles, hammered copper, silk thread, hardware and the like, of which it is not permitted to have any manufacture whatsoever, but only to sell, buy, display, bedeck and beautify all kinds of merchandise\" \n\nThus the \"marchands-merciers\" were characterised in the \"Encyclopédie\" as \"sellers of everything, makers of nothing\"\". Jacques Savary des Bruslons elaborated this lapidary remark and revealed the disdain of his generation towards handcrafts: \n\"This Corporation is considered the noblest and most excellent of all the Corporations of Merchants, all the more because those who compose it do not labour at all and make no handiwork, if it were not to beautify those things that are already made and manufactured\"\n\nThough they were confined by law to no narrow specialisation, the Parisian \"marchands-merciers\" followed narrow fields— Savary distinguished twenty— following the usages of their training and their connections, in highly competitive fields dominated by fashion. Among them a small group of \"marchands-merciers\" specialised in works of art, catering to an elite circle of connoisseurs and collectors towards the middle of the 18th century, when a vogue for exoticism expressed itself in \"chinoiserie\". Savary's \"Dictionnaire\" detailed the wares of:\n\"those who sell pictures, prints, candelabras, wall-lights, girandoles of gilded brass and [patinated] bronze, crystal chandeliers, figures of bronze, marble, wood and other material; cabinets, coffers, armoires, table, little tables, and candlestands put together of wood and gilded, marble tables and other merchandise and curiosities proper for the ornament of lodgings.\" \n\nThese entrepreneurs helped guide and even create fashions, such as that for Chinese porcelains, mounted in purely French gilt bronze, transforming a vase into a ewer with rococo lip and handle, or reversing one bowl over another, with an open-work gilt-bronze rim, to function as a perfume-burner. Only a \"marchand-mercier\" could marshal the resources required to create such objects. \"Marchands-merciers\" bought Japanese lacquer screens and boxes, had them dismantled and their wooden backing shaved down, then commissioned \"ébénistes\" like Bernard II Vanrisamberg or Joseph Baumhauer to produce furniture veneered with exotic lacquer panels shaped to fit the complex curves of Louis XV surfaces, and perhaps completed with French imitations, or entirely japanned in Vernis Martin, which might imitate Chinese blue and white porcelain decors, such as the blue-on-white ensemble of furniture Hébert delivered in 1743 for Mme de Mailly\n\nThe influence of the \"marchands-merciers\" on French porcelain is also considerable. Lazare Duvaux alone bought three-fifths of the \"total output\" of Sèvres in 1757, representing a total of 165,876 \"livres\". Certain forms in the Sèvres archives carry the names of well-known \"marchands-merciers\" in their designations.\n\nMembership in the \"corps\" was carefully controlled. A new member, born in France, had to undergo an apprenticeship of three years, followed by another three as a \"compagnon\", during which time he was bound to remain unmarried. His master could take on but one apprentice at a time, and the apprenticeships were duly enregistred at the corporation's offices in rue du Petit-Lion (rue Quincampoix). A sum changed hands, estimated by Guillaume Glorieux as averaging about 1720 500 or 600 \"livres\", and a larger sum was owed to the \"corporation\" when the individual was received master (\"maîtris\"), some 1700 \"livres\". There were two exceptions to this rule, made for purveyors to the Court— \"marchands privilégié suivant le cour\"— by decree of the king, and for those who married the daughter of one of the accredited merchants.\n\nThe Parisian \"marchands-merciers\" congregated in rue Saint-Honoré, marking their establishments with catchy and amusing signs; there could be found the premises of Hébert, Simon-Philippe Poirier— and later at the same premises \"at the sign of the Golden Crown\" his partner Dominique Daguerre and Martin-Eloi Lignereux— Mme Dulac, Julliot, Lebrun \"at the King of the Indies\" and Tuard \"au château de Bellevue\". Nearby, in rue de la Monnaie, the street where the manufacture royale of Sèvres eventually chose to open its porcelain shop, were Darnault, father and son, at the \"sign of the King of Spain\", and Lazare Duvaux. Edme-François Gersaint, for whom Watteau painted \"L'Enseigne de Gersaint\" as a shop sign had premises, following an old tradition, in a house on the Pont Notre-Dame. There, he advertised in 1740, he\n\"Sells all sorts of new and tasteful hardware (\"Cainquaillerie\"), trinkets, mirrors, cabinet pictures, \"pagods\", lacquer and porcelain from Japan, shellwork and other specimens of natural history, stones, agates, and generally all curious and exotic merchandise\".\n\nA newcomer, Granchet, opened premises \"Au petit Dunkerque\", in the Left Bank, Quai Conti at the far end of the Pont Neuf.\n\nAmong these entrepreneurial dealers and interior decorators at the apex of their profession, towards the middle of the century Hébert achieved the greatest celebrity, appearing in the popular novel \"Thémidore\" (1745) and marrying his daughter to the son of the Dauphine's first \"femme de chambre\" in 1751, in a contract signed at Versailles.\n"}
{"id": "336974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336974", "title": "Maya dance", "text": "Maya dance\n\nIn pre-Columbian Maya civilization, ceremonial dance had great importance. However, since dance is a transient art, it is inherently difficult for archeologists to find and evaluate evidence of its role. There is little material information left behind, beyond a few paintings on murals and vases. This lack of direct evidence leads to several different archaeological interpretations.\n\nDance was a central component of social, religious, and political endeavors for the ancient Maya. The entire community danced, including kings, nobles, and common people. Dance served many functions such as creating sacred space, closing the gap between here and the otherworld, and releasing the dead from the grasp of the Xibalbans (see Xibalba).\n\nIn 1966, Michael D. Coe and Elizabeth P. Benson described a dancing scene showing several important lords standing with one heel raised. In 1992, Nikolai Grube deciphered the glyph for “dance” (read as \"ak’ot\") in Maya script. Some interesting depictions of Maya dance of the Classic era are found on Maya ceramics and in the famous murals of Bonampak.\n\nThe word was in a picture that depicts Bird Jaguar IV, a Yaxchilan ruler, in a pose that would be described as dancing holding a writhing snake. The words around the man read chan chan or “celestial snake”. Many of the texts or stelae would be installed on places that the performance the picture had captured would be ideally done at like platforms, plazas or stairways.\n\nDancing on designs has been hard to find at first. It has been discovered that pictures of people dancing have been found to be standing still in the pictures or with a leg raised and just barely touching the ground. The physical location of where the image is gives hints to its reason. Symbols around and in the image also give helpful hints to the decoding of the image. Some depictions of dances come in a story like format around temples, like the 40 days after Bird Jaguar IV’s accession which spans many panels and includes a few different temples.\n\nAncient Maya dance is often characterized by transformations of human beings into supernatural (god like) beings by means of visionary trance. Some think that hallucinogenic drugs or medicines were used to put the performer into an altered state of mind. Once in this state of mind the participants were transformed into their \"wayob\" or soul companions. These soul companions were depicted through the masks and the costumes people wore in the dance. Some scenes are painted on pottery such as that from the myriad ritual meals of Classic festivals. These vessels depict humans, both kings and nobles, dressed in costumes. Their human faces are shown in cutaway view inside the costumes of the fantastic creatures they have become through the transformation of the dance. Some of these \"wayob\" are recognizable as animals like jaguars and birds of prey, but others just look like strange monsters.\n\nFor the Maya, dance was a very public affair. It induced visionary trances where either individuals or groups went into an altered state of mind that allowed them to communicate with the other world. Those who were strong enough to travel there, told stories about how the land had things like rivers and trees in this world. Some of the great lords depicted themselves dancing out over the abyss that leads into the otherworld.\n\nThe distinction between the humans and supernatural beings was never sharply made. Through dance, people became gods and gods became people even if it were only for a moment. It is important to note that these were more than just acts of civic pride or piety. They were considered to be direct connections to the otherworld.\n\nWith the written form of dance poses play a big part on how they describe and depict the dance. The gesture of holding the double headed serpent would be described as a gesture of concentration, calm and tranquility. The pose to dancing was discovered to be a lifted heel while still touching the ground. This was discovered in 1911 but wasn’t brought to questions till 1981 by Virginia Miller who defined the pose. This pose was started in the Early Classic period on a small scale while in the eight century started to appear in large scale depiction. This pictures show one heel raised, very rarely is both raised, and the arms in a dynamic pose with the body gazing outwards.\n\nDance from pre-Columbian Maya culture still exists in various altered forms today. However, dancing in the ancient world carried a much deeper significance in their sophisticated culture. Records of these dances have come to light through various murals, codices, and especially the Spaniards who first recorded their observations. \nSpirits of the super-natural world and their relationship with Maya culture played an important role in ritual dance. Just as well, beasts were usually mimicked in ceremonial dance. The attire worn to some dances as depicted in murals show the links Maya dancers make to the natural world and to their worshipped gods who often took the form of animals. This is evident especially in the frescoes of Bonampak.\nThe elements as well were worshipped through Maya dance. In the Tzutujil Maya culture, it was believed that a spirit controlled the power of volcanoes. When the mountain began to grumble and shake, the Tzutujil priests would pick young women and girls who would partake in a large dance ceremony before being sacrificed into the burning mountain. Maya dance rituals often included sacrifice. For instance, the Tun-teleche¬ dance included victims whose hearts were removed before they died as a gift to underworld demons. On the other hand, some public ritual dances were even erotic in nature. Common throughout most all dances though was the importance of deities and the relationship between man and god. \nDancing includes many different aspects of other rituals into the moves and actions they do during them. Blood-letting was used to help demonstrate the bravery of the warriors. They would also put their captives in their dances; the captives would be killed in a public ritual normally after the bloodletting. Ball games were also involved in dances. Some ball players would be in similar positions as dancers’ sometimes confusing people analyzing them . Instruments were also including in depictions of ball games further supporting the connection of dancing, ball games, and warfare are connected in the life style as they all share very similar depictions of what they are. \nIn the book of creation, \"Popol Vuh\", it is recounted that the dances of the Twin Brothers were part of a miracle ceremony. Just as well, the dances of ‘The Armadillo,’\n‘the Poorwill,’ and ‘the Weasel’ pleased the lords of death immensely.\nDance in Maya culture has also acted as a bridge between the ancient and post-Columbian eras. Spanish missionaries and lords as late as the 18th century were trying to eliminate the practice of ancient dance; however, natives maintained roots with their ancestors by practicing in secret. Even after the relatively complete conversion to Catholicism after the Spanish influence arrived, Maya people still respect their ancient deities through ceremonial dance, which has persisted through the generations since the golden age of ancient Maya.\n\nThe “stepping” pose is also closely connected to dance. This pose is a profile of the person with their right foot on the ground while the left is bent with the ball if the foot on the ground. This pose uses lots of context to discover the meaning. This pose could also be used for walking but the presence of instruments and dance costumes separate the two from each other.\n\nThe legs aren’t the only part of the body that mattered when it comes to dance poses. The arm and elbow were used while the hand and fingers are not always shown while almost all people are shown with arms. One dance position of the arms is the arms out towards the way the person is facing or next to the face while another one is a hand by the head with the other on the hip. The arms would be used of the artist didn’t want to raise the heel of the person while still giving the symbol of dance. The use of just arms as a form of dance is used to show the dancing of someone who isn’t normally a dancer, like a baby or a god.\n\nWith all things there are situations that break the pattern. If the poses for dance are used without certain contexts the meanings of these poses changes. A lifted heel without instruments or dance costumes could be used to describe drunkenness. Warriors and battles also use this pose as a sign to capture enemies as well as to signal a spear being thrown.\n\nThe Snake Dance was also celebrated by the lords of Palenque. This time the dance was done with a male who has an ax in one hand and a serpent in the other, and a woman who is grasping the lower body of the snake. These dancers wore costumes of First father and First Mother, the deities whose actions enabled the final creation and the birth of all the gods. This depiction is thought to point toward the role of dance in the story of Creation.\n\nThe most important instrument of mayan music is the rain stick.\n\nThe story of the Popol Vuh exhibits examples of this idea. After the Hero Twins are killed they come back to life as vagabonds and quickly enchant the people of Xibalba with their dancing and magic. The Twins danced such dances as the Dance of the Poorwill, the Weasel and the Armadillo and they are able to bring things back to life. All of this fame caught the attention of the Lords of Death who command the Twins to perform. As the twins perform, the Lords are amazed by their powers and finally ask the Twins to sacrifice them. The Twins do, but this time they do not bring them back to life, limiting the Xibalbans power over humans forever.\n\nDancers are very specific on where they do their rituals. Certain dances are more private while other are public events that fill stadiums. One Spanish explorer describes a performance he watched as eight hundred heavy warriors danced in a giant stadium. Not one of the warriors were off beat as they danced all day with food and drink brought to them as they danced. Diego Garcia de Palacio compared a courtyard enclosed by stairways in Copan to the Colosseum in Rome. Dances were mostly public rituals showing community by people being different social classes on stage. These stages were normally large centers, public zones or palace compounds which the elites would use more.\n\nMuch of Mayan ceremonial architecture contains pieces of art containing figures doing ritual dances. The architect of these building holds figures of what the rooms are normally used for. Some set of staircase contain pictures of captives walking down them giving the idea the rooms here were used to store prisoners. The East Court of the Acropolis in Copan is believed to have been used for dance rituals. The room was used by a dictionary of colonial Yucatec described the acropolis as a community house where they learned to discuss public interest and well as learn to dance.\n\nKrystal, Matthew. (2012) \"Indigenous Dance and Dancing Indians: Contested Representation in the Global Era.\" University Press of Colorado. Press\n"}
{"id": "5530848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5530848", "title": "Michael Dickinson (artist)", "text": "Michael Dickinson (artist)\n\nMichael Dickinson (born 1950, Durham) is an English artist known for his work in Turkey, who works with political and satirical collages. In 2008, he was prosecuted for a collage of the Turkish prime minister, but acquitted. He is also a member of the international art movement Stuckism.\n\nMichael Dickinson was born in Durham, England, and spent most of his early years in Kuwait, where his father was an employee of the Kuwait Oil Company and where he attended the Anglo-American School. He later attended Fyling Hall school in Yorkshire. He lives and works as an English teacher in Istanbul. He is the founder of the Istanbul branch of the Stuckist art movement, and also a writer, playwright and actor.\n\nIn May 2005, Dickinson's web site, \"The Carnival of Chaos\", was blanked and he was informed by the host Tripod (a member of the Lycos group), \"You are no longer an authorized member of Tripod. You have been removed because your web site violated our Terms of Service.\" This occurred after he had posted a collage, \"Tyrant's Pants\", showing President Bush in his underpants with a cruise missile coming out of his rear and a swastika on his right buttock.\nThe collage was a response to a photo which had appeared with the headline \"Tyrant's in his pants\" on the front page of the British tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\", showing captive Saddam Hussein in underpants.\n\nIn June 2006, Istanbul police removed one of Dickinson's collages from a show in the city organised by the Global Peace and Justice Coalition. Dickinson states that he hung his work in the show unknown to the organisers. The collage showed the Turkish Prime Minister Tayyip Erdoğan as a dog being presented with a rosette by President Bush in a pet show. \nHe was informed by Turkish authorities that he would be prosecuted for \"insulting the Prime Minister's dignity\"; the charge carries a sentence of one to three years.\n\"The Times\" said: \"The case could greatly embarrass Turkey and Britain, for it raises questions about Turkey’s human rights record as it seeks EU membership, with Tony Blair’s backing.\" Charles Thomson, co-founder of the Stuckist movement, wrote to British Prime Minister Tony Blair asking for his intervention: \"It is intolerable that a country applying for EU membership should censor freedom of political comment in this way. I trust you will communicate your strongest condemnation and ask for this case to be abandoned immediately. I ask for your assurance that you will oppose Turkish EU membership in the strongest terms, until Turkey adopts the attitudes of the civilised world towards human rights.\" Dickinson said:\n\"It’s such an Alice in Wonderland feeling. The law is so absurd ... This law exists in Turkey about insulting 'Turkishness' or the State. You’re not allowed to state your opinion.\"\n\nIn September 2006, Dickinson attended the trial of Erkan Kara, organiser of the Global Peace and Justice Coalition show, charged with insulting behaviour for exhibiting Dickinson's work. The prosecutor described Dickinson as \"ill-intentioned\", but declined to bring a case because of \"lack of evidence\". Hasan Gungor of the Istanbul-based group, Initiative for Freedom of Speech, attributed this to fear of international news, when the European Union has concerns over freedom of speech in Turkey.\nMembers of Global Peace and Justic Coalition remonstrated with Dickinson for distracting attention from their anti-Iraq War cause, and he then held up another collage showing Erdogan as a dog with a lead of the stars and stripes; he was arrested and charged with insulting the Turkish prime minister's dignity with a trial date scheduled for October 2007. He was then held for ten days, three in prison and seven in the Detention Centre for Foreigners. During his transfer between facilities, he attempted to escape, but was shot at by a policeman, who recaptured him.\n\nIn July 2007, Dickinson's collages were displayed at the A Gallery, London, in the Stuckist show \"I Won't Have Sex with You as long as We're Married\".\n\nOn 25 September 2008, he was acquitted of any crime, the judge ruling that although there were \"some insulting elements\" in his collage, it fell \"within the limits of criticism\". The case has favourable implications for Turkey's relationship with the European Union, which had called for an improvement of its human rights record. Dickinson said, \"I am lucky to be acquitted. There are still artists in Turkey facing prosecution and being sentenced for their opinions.\"\n\nIn June 2009, Dickinson fled Turkey for his native country, Britain, after learning that his acquittal had been overturned. Unable to find work, he returned to Istanbul soon after. In January 2010, a Turkish court convicted Dickinson of mocking the Turkish prime minister and levied a fine. Refusing to pay the fine as a matter of principle, Dickinson faces up to two years in prison. His final sentencing will occur at a trial on 9 March 2010.\n\nDickinson's application for a residence permit was refused due to his 2010 conviction, but he remained in the country after the expiry of his tourist visa. He was arrested in October 2013 for shouting Gezi Park-related slogans at police, and detained after his expired visa was discovered. He was deported after some days (and banned from returning for five years), choosing to go to Barcelona rather than his native Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36836451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36836451", "title": "Modern sculpture", "text": "Modern sculpture\n\nModern sculpture is generally considered to have begun with the work of Auguste Rodin, who is seen as the progenitor of modern sculpture. While Rodin did not set out to rebel against the past, he created a new way of building his works. He \"dissolved the hard outline of contemporary Neo-Greek academicism, and thereby created a vital synthesis of opacity and transparency, volume and void\". Along with a few other artists in the late 19th century who experimented with new artistic visions in sculpture like Edgar Degas and Paul Gauguin, Rodin invented a radical new approach in the creation of sculpture. Modern sculpture, along with all modern art, \"arose as part of Western society's attempt to come to terms with the urban, industrial and secular society that emerged during the nineteenth century\".\n\nModernist sculpture movements include Art Nouveau, Cubism, Geometric abstraction, De Stijl, Suprematism, Constructivism, Dadaism, Surrealism, Futurism, Formalism Abstract expressionism, Pop-Art, Minimalism, Postminimalism, Land art, Conceptual art, and Installation art among others.\n\nThe modern sculpture movement can be said to begin at the Rodin exhibit at the Universal Exhibition held in Paris in 1900. At this event Rodin showed his Burghers of Calais, Balzac, Victor Hugo statues, and the exhibition included the first public showing of his Gates of Hell which included The Thinker.\n\nCubist sculpture, in the early 20th century, was a style that developed in parallel with cubist painting, and the formal experiments of Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. Beginning around 1909 and evolving through the early 1920s cubist artists developed new means of constructing works of art using collage, sculptural assemblage using disparate materials and traditional sculpture making from plaster and clay molds. Some sources name Picasso's 1909 bronze \"Head of a Woman\" as the first cubist sculpture. Artists like Raymond Duchamp-Villon (1876-1918), whose career was cut short by his death in military service, and Alexander Archipenko, who'd arrived in Paris in 1908 and whose 1912 \"Walking Woman\" were very quick to follow Braque and Picasso's lead. Joseph Csaky, a sculptor from Hungary, exhibited his first cubist sculptures in Paris in 1911. Duchamp-Villon, Jacques Lipchitz, Henri Laurens and Ossip Zadkine and others joined the earlier cubist sculptors.\n\nIn the early 20th century, during his period of cubist innovation, Pablo Picasso revolutionized the art of sculpture when he began creating his \"constructions\" fashioned by combining disparate objects and materials into one constructed piece of sculpture; Picasso reinvented the art of sculpture with his innovative use of constructing a work in three dimensions with disparate material, the sculptural equivalent of the collage in two-dimensional art. Just as collage was a radical development in two-dimensional art; so was \"construction\" a radical development in three-dimensional sculpture. The advent of Surrealism led to things occasionally being described as \"sculpture\" that would not have been so previously, such as \"involuntary sculpture\" in several senses, including coulage. In later years Picasso became a prolific potter, leading, with interest in historic pottery from around the world, to a revival of ceramic art, with figures such as George E. Ohr and subsequently Peter Voulkos, Kenneth Price, and Robert Arneson. Marcel Duchamp originated the use of the \"found object\" (French: \"objet trouvé\") or \"readymade\" with pieces such as Fountain (1917).\n\nSimilarly, the work of Constantin Brâncuși at the beginning of the century paved the way for later abstract sculpture. In revolt against the naturalism of Rodin and his late 19th-century contemporaries, Brâncuși distilled subjects down to their essences as illustrated by the elegantly refined forms of his \"Bird in Space\" series (1924). These elegantly refined forms became synonymous with 20th-century sculpture. In 1927, Brâncuși won a lawsuit against the U.S. customs authorities who attempted to value his sculpture as raw metal. The suit led to legal changes permitting the importation of abstract art free of duty.\n\nBrâncuși's impact, with his vocabulary of reduction and abstraction, is seen throughout the 1930s and 1940s, and exemplified by artists such as Gaston Lachaise, Sir Jacob Epstein, Henry Moore, Alberto Giacometti, Joan Miró, Ásmundur Sveinsson, Julio González, Pablo Serrano, Jacques Lipchitz and also by the 1940s abstract sculpture was impacted and expanded by Alexander Calder, Len Lye, Jean Tinguely, and Frederick Kiesler who were pioneers of Kinetic art.\n\nSince the 1950s Modernist trends in sculpture both abstract and figurative have dominated the public imagination and the popularity of Modernist sculpture had sidelined the traditional approach. Picasso was commissioned to make a maquette for a huge, -high public sculpture to be built in Chicago, known usually as the \"Chicago Picasso\". He approached the project with a great deal of enthusiasm, designing a sculpture which was ambiguous and somewhat controversial. What the figure represents is not known; it could be a bird, a horse, a woman, or a totally abstract shape. The sculpture, one of the most recognizable landmarks in downtown Chicago, was unveiled in 1967. Picasso refused to be paid $100,000 for it, donating it to the people of the city.\n\nIn the late 1950s and the 1960s, abstract sculptors began experimenting with a wide array of new materials and different approaches to creating their work. Surrealist imagery, anthropomorphic abstraction, new materials and combinations of new energy sources and varied surfaces and objects became characteristic of much new modernist sculpture. Collaborative projects with landscape designers, architects, and landscape architects expanded the outdoor site and contextual integration. Artists such as Isamu Noguchi, David Smith, Alexander Calder, Jean Tinguely, Richard Lippold, George Rickey, Louise Bourgeois, and Louise Nevelson came to characterize the look of modern sculpture.\n\nBy the 1960s Abstract expressionism, Geometric abstraction and Minimalism, which reduces sculpture to its most essential and fundamental features, predominated. Some works of the period are: the Cubi works of David Smith, and the welded steel works of Sir Anthony Caro, as well as welded sculpture by a large variety of sculptors, the large scale work of John Chamberlain, and environmental installation scale works by Mark di Suvero. Other Minimalists and Postminimalists include Tony Smith, Donald Judd, Robert Morris, Anne Truitt, Ronald Bladen, Giacomo Benevelli, Arnaldo Pomodoro, Richard Serra, Carl Andre, Dan Flavin, Eva Hesse, Christo, Walter De Maria, Robert Smithson, and others like John Safer who added motion and monumentality to the theme of purity of line. led contemporary abstract sculpture in new directions. During the 1960s and 1970s figurative sculpture by pop artists and modernist artists in stylized forms by artists such as: George Segal, Claes Oldenburg, Arman, Leonard Baskin, Ernest Trova, Marisol Escobar, Paul Thek, Manuel Neri and others became popular. In the 1980s several artists, among others, exploring figurative sculpture were Robert Graham in a classic articulated style and Fernando Botero bringing his painting's \"oversized figures\" into monumental sculptures. Ceramic sculpture as practiced by Pablo Picasso, Peter Voulkos, Stephen De Staebler, Kenneth Price, and others became an important idiom of modern sculpture in the 20th century.\n\nSite specific and environmental art works are represented by artists: Andy Goldsworthy, Walter De Maria, Richard Long, Richard Serra, Robert Irwin, George Rickey, and Christo and Jeanne-Claude-led contemporary abstract sculpture in new directions. Artists created environmental sculpture on expansive sites in the \"land art in the American West\" group of projects. These land art or \"earth art\" environmental scale sculpture works exemplified by artists such as Robert Smithson, Michael Heizer, James Turrell (Roden Crater). Eva Hesse, Sol LeWitt, Jackie Winsor, Keith Sonnier, and Bruce Nauman, among others were pioneers of Postminimalist sculpture.\n\nAlso during the 1960s and 1970s artists as diverse as Eduardo Paolozzi, Chryssa, Walter De Maria, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal, Edward Kienholz, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Duane Hanson, and John DeAndrea explored abstraction, imagery, and figuration through video art, environment, light sculpture, and installation art in new ways.\n\nConceptual art is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work take precedence over traditional aesthetic and material concerns. Works include \"One and Three Chairs\", 1965, by Joseph Kosuth, and \"An Oak Tree\", 1973, by Michael Craig-Martin, and those of Joseph Beuys and James Turrell among others.\n\nPostmodern sculpture occupies a broader field of activities than Modernist sculpture. Rosalind Krauss identified sculpture in the expanded field, a series of oppositions around the work's relationship to its environment that describe the various sculpture-like activities that are postmodern sculpture, creating a theoretical explanation that could adequately fit the developments of Land art, Minimalist sculpture, and site-specific art into the category of \"sculpture\":\n\n\nModern sculpture is often created outdoors, as in environmental art and environmental sculpture, often in full view of spectators. Light sculpture and site-specific art also often make use of the environment. Site-specific artwork is intentionally created for a specific place. The term was first used in the mid-1970s by sculptors Patricia Johanson, Dennis Oppenheim, Athena Tacha, and others. Site specific environmental art was described as a movement by architectural critic Catherine Howett and art critic Lucy Lippard. Land art, Earthworks, (Earth art) is an art movement that makes specific use of the real landscape to form works of sculpture that are located in and make use of nature generally in altered form. It is a form of sculpture created in nature, from nature, using materials found in nature like dirt, soil, rocks, logs, branches, leaves, and water, as well as man made materials like Chain-link fencing, barbed wire, rope, rubber, glass, concrete, metal, asphalt, and mineral pigments. Ice sculpture is a form of ephemeral sculpture that uses ice as the raw material. It is popular in China, Japan, Canada, Sweden, and Russia. Ice sculptures feature decoratively in some cuisines, especially in Asia. Kinetic sculptures are sculptures that are designed to move, which include mobiles. Snow sculptures are usually carved out of a single block of snow about 6 to on each side and weighing about 20–30 tons. The snow is densely packed into a form after having been produced by artificial means or collected from the ground after a snowfall.\n\nSound sculptures take the form of indoor sound installations, outdoor installations such as aeolian harps, automatons, or be more or less near conventional musical instruments. Sound sculpture is often site-specific. Art toys have become another format for contemporary artists since the late 1990s, such as those produced by Takashi Murakami and Kid Robot, designed by Michael Lau, or hand-made by Michael Leavitt.\n\n"}
{"id": "28964975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28964975", "title": "Médiathèque Musicale Mahler", "text": "Médiathèque Musicale Mahler\n\nThe Médiathèque Musicale Mahler is a multimedia library with collections relating to music of the 19th and 20th centuries. The institution is located in an elegant private house near the Parc Monceau in Paris at 11 bis rue de Vézelay (8th arrondissement). It was founded in 1986 as the Bibliothèque Gustav Mahler by the French biographer of Mahler, musicologist Henry-Louis de La Grange (born 1924) and music critic, composer, and administrator Maurice Fleuret (1932–1990) in order to combine and make available to the public their extensive personal archives. The library's holdings have regularly been expanded and updated, and include original manuscript scores, letters, and other documents, and published scores, books, periodicals, press clippings, recordings (LPs, cassettes, and CDs), and other personal archives. The current president of the library, Pierre Bergé (born 1930), is a former director of the Théâtre de l'Athénée-Louis Jouvet and President of the Paris Opera (1988–1994) and succeeded La Grange as president of the library in 2000.\n\nThe association changed its name from Centre de Documentation Musicale-Bibliothèque Gustav Mahler to Médiathèque Musicale Mahler in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "31927892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31927892", "title": "Old Babylonian oracle", "text": "Old Babylonian oracle\n\nOld Babylonian oracle is a Sumerian myth, written on clay tablets dated to between 2340 and 2200 BC.\n\nThe myth was discovered on the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, catalogue of the Babylonian section (CBS), tablet number 8322 from their excavations at the temple library at Nippur. This was translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as \"Sumerian religious texts\" in \"Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions\", number two, entitled \"An Old Babylonian Oracle\". The tablet is by by at its thickest point.\n\nBarton suggests the text is difficult and enigmatic, he confesses the interpretation put forward is uncertain and with great reserve. He suggests that it describes an oracle given by a seer for a priest called \"Allu-Kal\" who wished to rebuild dwellings or a temple of cedar wood. Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard. Allu-Kal then entreats the gods for protection of the dwellings of cedar to which the gods exalt him in reply and he is called a \"bearded prince,\" suggested as a hint that he may be deified as were Naram-Sin, Gudea and Shulgi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4198483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4198483", "title": "Oroqen language", "text": "Oroqen language\n\nOroqen (also known as Orochon, Oronchon, Olunchun, Elunchun, Ulunchun) is a Northern Tungusic language spoken in the People's Republic of China. Dialects are Gankui and Heilongjiang. Gankui is the standard dialect. It is spoken by the Oroqen people of Inner Mongolia (predominantly the Oroqin Autonomous Banner) and Heilongjiang in Northeast China.\n\nCurrently, the Oroqen language is still unwritten. However, the majority of the Oroqen are capable of reading and writing Chinese and some can also speak the Daur language.\n\nOroqen is spoken in the following counties of China (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300253", "title": "Passenger to Frankfurt", "text": "Passenger to Frankfurt\n\nPassenger to Frankfurt: An Extravanganza is a spy novel by Agatha Christie first published in the United Kingdom by the Collins Crime Club in September 1970 and in the United States by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at twenty-five shillings. In preparation for decimalisation on 15 February 1971, it was concurrently priced on the dustjacket at £1.25. The US edition retailed at $5.95.\n\nIt was published to mark Christie's eightieth birthday and, by counting up both UK and US short-story collections to reach the desired total, was also advertised as her eightieth book. It is the last of her spy novels. At the beginning of the book there is a quote by Jan Smuts, \"Leadership, besides being a great creative force, can be diabolical ...\"\n\nSir Stafford Nye, a middle-aged diplomat, steps into the world of spies, double agents, and secret groups to effect a change in international power centers. He meets a woman who has selected him to aid her at a crucial point, when a weather delay changes where her and his airplane flight lands before proceeding to England. There is much commentary on the changes in the world, especially college age youth in Europe, the United States, and South America, in the late 1960s.\n\nThe novel received mixed reviews at publication and in 1990. In 2017, it was assessed favorably in an essay about speculative spy thriller novels by women. It is one of only four Christie novels not to have received an adaptation of any kind, the others being \"Death Comes as the End\", \"Destination Unknown\" and \"Postern of Fate\".\n\nSir Stafford Nye's flight home from Malaya takes an unexpected twist, when a woman approaches him in the Frankfurt Airport. The woman claims that her life is in danger, and that she needs his help. Nye agrees to lend her his traveling cloak, passport, and boarding ticket. A colleague in London, Horsham of Security, tells Nye that his action in Frankfurt saved Mary Ann’s life; Sir Stafford heard another name announced for her at the airport, Daphne Theodofanous. Nye has dinner with his friend Eric, worried for his professional reputation. Mary Ann returns his passport, taped into a magazine in his post. Nye advertises in the personals section of the newspaper for his mystery woman, signing himself as Passenger to Frankfurt. She replies with tickets to an opera, given at a discreet meeting on a bridge. His great-aunt Matilda hints to him of a terrible world-wide conspiracy, which uses a phrase of music from Richard Wagner, related to the opera \"Siegfried\" (1876). Matilda detects that he has a woman in his life now.\n\nThe opera is \"Siegfried\", part of \"The Ring of the Nibelung\" by Wagner. The mystery woman attends only the second half, leaving Nye the tune for young Siegfried marked on a copy of the program, a motif for what she is doing. He attends an embassy party, given by the American ambassador and his wife, Sam and Mildred Cortman. Mary Ann is there, under her real name, Countess Renata Zerkowski. She offers Nye a ride home, but takes him instead to the home of Mr Robinson the financier, where they meet Colonel Pikeaway, Lord Altamount, James Kleek and Horsham. Nye is not seen for a while, as he has been accepted by the close-knit group of British intelligence to aid in accomplishing the tasks Mary Ann has taken on. They travel extensively. Mary Ann warns Nye that one among their own group is probably a traitor.\n\nSome believe that near the end of World War II, Adolf Hitler went to a mental institution, met with a group of people who thought they were Hitler, and exchanged places with one of them, thus surviving the war. He escaped to Argentina, where he married and had a son who was branded with a swastika on his heel. This belief encourages those who want to resurrect the beliefs and ways of the Nazis. The Countess believes she has this boy with his swastika tattoo. The story is told to the Intelligence group by psychiatrist Dr Reichardt, but they know it is false. Hitler had no son. The British Intelligence group explains in several long expository chapters how drugs, promiscuity, and student unrest in the United States and Europe are caused by Nazi agitators. The agitators begin to bring about anarchy, attacking the American ambassador and the French Marshall. The goal is to re-build fascism. Meetings in Paris and London describe the movement of money and arms and their sources, and major players.\n\nNye's aunt, Lady Matilda, goes on her own trip, to visit her school mate, Countess Charlotte von Waldsausen, learning Charlotte's plans to be leader of the fascist world, which she then relates to her nephew. On her return, Matilda tells her friend Admiral Philip Blunt about the scientist Professor Shoreham, who invented something called Project B, or Benvo, which is a drug that makes people altruistic, but may cause a long-term change. Shoreham had a stroke, and he cannot communicate well. He had shelved Project B before his stroke. The Intelligence group meets at Shoreham’s home, where he explains the limitations of his benevolent project. Kleek, traitor in the Intelligence group tries to kill Lord Altamount by poison and is blocked, so Miss Ellis the nurse to Shoreham shoots Lord Altamount, who dies of shock. Miss Ellis is recognized as Milly Jean Cortman, who had also killed her husband. The violent incident brings new energy to Shoreham, who resolves to restart work on his project. He will contact his colleague Gottlieb to re-start Project Benvo and also arrange a memorial to Lord Altamount, the only politician he had ever trusted.\n\nThe final chapter is an epilogue, with Nye at Matilda's house preparing for his upcoming marriage to Mary Ann. The supposed son of Hitler has been brought to England for a more normal life and is about to become the organist at their church. Sybil, Nye's 5-year-old niece, will be the flower girl at the wedding. Nye forgot a best man, but asks Sybil to bring the panda, which he bought for her at the Frankfurt airport, in it from the beginning.\n\n\n\n\n\nFrancis Iles (Anthony Berkeley Cox) in \"The Guardian\" (15 October 1970) said, \"Of all the idiotic conventions attaching to the thriller the silliest is the idea that a car whizzing round a corner at high speed can be aimed at an intended victim who has, quite unseen, stepped off the pavement into the roadway at exactly the right moment. Agatha Christie uses this twice in \"Passenger to Frankfurt\". For the rest the book is largely a discursus on a favourite old theme of Mrs Christie's, the present state of the world and its future outlook, on both of which she takes a somewhat dim view. In other words, for her eightieth book a rather more serious work than usual from this author.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" (13 September 1970) began, \"Her eightieth book and [al]though not her best very far from her worst.\" He concluded: \"At moments one wonders whether the old dear knows the difference between a hippie and a skinhead but she is still marvellously entertaining. I shall expect her to turn permissive for her eighty-firster.\"\n\nRobert Barnard said of this spy novel that it was \"The last of the thrillers, and one that slides from the unlikely to the inconceivable and finally lands up in incomprehensible muddle. Prizes should be offered to readers who can explain the ending. Concerns the youth uproar of the 'sixties, drugs, a new Aryan superman and so on, subjects of which Christie's grasp was, to say the least, uncertain (she seems to have the oddest idea of what the term 'Third World' means, for example). Collins insisted she subtitle the book 'An Extravaganza.' One can think of other descriptions.\"\n\nPhyllis Lassner compares \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" with the Cold War novels of John le Carré, and with the novel \"The Salzburg Connection\" (1968) by Helen MacInnes. These novels reassess the victory of the Allies of World War II, and question the stability of post-war peace. The novels dramatise their era's anxieties about the re-emergence of Fascism during the Cold War. Lassner views both \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" and \"The Salzburg Connection\" as \"speculative political fantasies\". \n\nBoth Christie and MacInnes employed tropes typical for spy fiction: \"masculine leadership\", double agents, and thrilling chases and getaways. However, both female writers revised the typical gender roles of the spy fiction genre. The female characters of the two novels play an important role in investigating and intervening in international crises. While spy fiction writers typically reduce the female characters to sidekicks or romantic distractions for their protagonists.\n\nConcerning Christie, Lassner notes that this was far from her first spy novel. Early in her career, Christie wrote a series of spy thrillers, such as \"The Secret Adversary\" (1922), \"The Man in the Brown Suit\" (1924), \"The Big Four\" (1927), and \"The Seven Dials Mystery\" (1929). However, \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" differs from other Christie novels, because it is not another example of detective fiction or crime fiction. It is a combination of thriller and dystopian fiction, exploring a hypothetical future for the entire world. The novel depicts a resurgence of Nazism, which depends on uniting the young people of the world under its creed. The new Nazi movement and its agents seduce the world's youth with promises of glory and heroism. The indoctrinated youth are manipulated into overthrowing the governments of their respective nations, and redeploying the national resources into supporting a new regime. The actual goal of the conspiracy is to establish a global oligarchy, controlled by a self-appointed master race.\n\nLassner also notes Christie's view on Nazism in general. The Fourth Reich of the novel is depicted as relying on a culture of drug users, sadism, lust for power, and hatred. The potential rise of this Reich to power is depicted as a downfall for the ideals of Individuality and democracy, along with the associated social and political order. Aunt Matilda serves as the proverbial \"fount of wisdom\" of the novel, when observing that the Reich is not based on new ideas, but on an old, and recurring one. That everybody must follow \"the young hero\", the \"golden superman\", \"the young Siegfried\". Nye dismisses his aunt's warnings about Nazism as mere fancies. But Matilda notes that people said the same thing in the interwar period about Adolf Hitler and about the Hitler Youth. But at that time, Nazism was planning its rise to power through planting fifth columns in different countries. People passionately believing in the Nazi creed. Matilda argues that the same methods could work again in the Cold War era, if the Nazi message is \"offered cleverly enough\".\n\nChristie does not locate the dangers of the novel's era only to the 1960s \"brigades of revolutionary youth\". Christie uses the novel to criticize the apathy of an older generation, while the youth of the era causes riots around the world. The recruitment drive for a new Children's Crusade, is (according to Christie) the result of the failure of the post-war generations (the parents and grandparents of the rioting youth) to create a better or more progressive political order. The older generations of the novel essentially cling to an \"archaic political order\" , that offers no real progressive ideas. Lassner feels that it is not a coincidence that the novel opens with Stafford Nye dozing off at the Frankfurt Airport. It reflects Nye's casual indifference towards the political changes in the world surrounding him.\n\nThe late 1960s quest of Countess Renata and Nye to stop the \"fascist crusade\", causes them to travel from the United Kingdom to an 18th-century Schloss, which the text places in proximity to Berchtesgaden. Berchtesgaden is described as \"Hitler's mountain lair\". The Schloss of the novel serves as the headquarters of Gräfin Charlotte von Waldsausen, the place from where she devises strategies for world domination and trying to convert individuals into an obedient mass. The novel notes that Charlotte's original family name was \"Krapp\". Christie intended the name as a pun, connecting the villain of the novel with the Krupp family of industrialists, which was essential for Hitler's war machine. The Gräfin is depicted as explicitly supporting the Holocaust, when she fondly recalls deaths in gas chambers and torture cells. Her personal wealth, essential for financing her schemes, is described in the novel as deriving from the exploitation of the world's natural resources. She reportedly earned this wealth through exploitation and control over oil, copper, goldmines in South Africa, armaments in Sweden, uranium deposits, nuclear developments, and \"vast stretches\" of cobalt.\n\n\nThe book has been published continuously since 1970 and up to 2018, in English and other languages, per the list of books held at libraries in WorldCat.\n\nThe International Standard Book Number (ISBN) system was introduced in 1970 by the International Standards Organization (ISO), and this is the first Agatha Christie novel to have an ISBN on the first edition. Re-issues published in 1970 or later of her earlier novels have the ISBN issued and appears on the book, but not the first editions of those novels.\n\n"}
{"id": "24918029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24918029", "title": "Phoenix Rising (novel)", "text": "Phoenix Rising (novel)\n\nPhoenix Rising is a 1994 book by Karen Hesse. It is a realistic fiction book about a 13-year-old girl named Nyle and her grandmother, and how their lives are disrupted by a nuclear accident. Everyone that lives anywhere near the accident suddenly has to wear masks, test everywhere for high levels of radiation, and watch everything they eat and drink to make sure it's not contaminated until the government gives the all clear. Nyle and her grandmother live together on a farm in Vermont, near the nuclear plant in Cookshire. She and her grandmother take in two evacuees from the accident. The boy, 15-year-old Ezra Trent, absorbed a large amount of radiation and is very sick, yet there is no room in any of the hospitals for him. His father had died less than a week ago at the time Nyle and her grandmother take them in, due to radiation poisoning. Nyle is terrified to let herself care about him because she believes that if she lets herself care for him, she will end up losing him, just like her mother and grandfather. He and his mother, Miriam Trent, end up staying in the back bedroom, which Nyle calls 'the dying room' because that is where her mother and grandfather had died when they were sick. She pushes Ezra away, but they eventually end up growing closer as he gets better.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236268", "title": "Pioneer plaque", "text": "Pioneer plaque\n\nThe Pioneer plaques are a pair of gold-anodized aluminium plaques which were placed on board the 1972 \"Pioneer 10\" and 1973 \"Pioneer 11\" spacecraft, featuring a pictorial message, in case either \"Pioneer 10\" or \"11\" is intercepted by extraterrestrial life. The plaques show the nude figures of a human male and female along with several symbols that are designed to provide information about the origin of the spacecraft.\n\nThe \"Pioneer 10\" and \"11\" spacecraft were the first human-built objects to achieve escape velocity from the Solar System. The plaques were attached to the spacecraft's antenna support struts in a position that would shield them from erosion by interstellar dust.\n\nThe original idea, that the Pioneer spacecraft should carry a message from mankind, was first mentioned by Eric Burgess when he visited the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, during the Mariner 9 mission. He approached Carl Sagan, who had lectured about communication with intelligent extraterrestrials at a conference in Crimea.\n\nSagan was enthusiastic about the idea of sending a message with the Pioneer spacecraft. NASA agreed to the plan and gave him three weeks to prepare a message. Together with Frank Drake he designed the plaque, and the artwork was prepared by Linda Salzman Sagan, who was Sagan's wife at the time.\n\nBoth plaques were manufactured at Precision Engravers, San Carlos, California.\n\nThe first plaque was launched with \"Pioneer 10\" on March 2, 1972, and the second followed with \"Pioneer 11\" on April 5, 1973.\n\nIn May 2017 a limited edition of 200 replicas engraved from the original master design at Precision Engravers was made available in a Kickstarter Campaign, which also offered laser-engraved replicas.\n\n\nAt the top left of the plate is a schematic representation of the hyperfine transition of hydrogen, which is the most abundant element in the universe. The spin-flip transition of a hydrogen atom’s electron has a frequency of about 1420.405 MHz, which corresponds to a period of 0.704 ns. Light at this frequency has a vacuum wavelength of 21.106 cm (which is also the distance the light travels in that time period). Below the symbol, the small vertical line—representing the binary digit 1—specifies a unit of length (21 cm) as well as a unit of time (0.7 ns). Both units are used as measurements in the other symbols.\n\nOn the right side of the plaque, a man and a woman are shown in front of the spacecraft. Between the brackets that indicate the height of the woman, the binary representation of the number 8 can be seen (1000, with a small defect in the first zero). In units of the wavelength of the hyperfine transition of hydrogen this means 8 × 21 cm = 168 cm.\n\nThe right hand of the man is raised as a sign of good will. Although this gesture may not be understood, it offers a way to show the opposable thumb and how the limbs can be moved.\n\nOriginally Sagan intended the humans to be shown holding hands, but soon realized that an extraterrestrial might perceive them as a single creature rather than two organisms.\n\nThe original drawings of the figures were based on drawings by Leonardo da Vinci and Greek sculptures.\n\nThe woman's genitals are not depicted in detail; only the \"Mons pubis\" is shown. It has been claimed that Sagan, having little time to complete the plaque, suspected that NASA would have rejected a more intricate drawing and therefore made a compromise just to be safe. Carl Sagan said that the decision to not include the vertical line on the woman's genitalia (pudendal cleft) which would be caused by the intersection of the labia majora was due to two reasons. First, Greek sculptures of women do not include that line. Second, Carl Sagan believed that a design with such an explicit depiction of a woman's genitalia would be considered too obscene to be approved by NASA. According to the memoirs of Robert S. Kraemer, however, the original design that was presented to NASA headquarters included a line which indicated the woman's vulva, and this line was erased as a condition for approval of the design by John Naugle, former head of NASA's Office of Space Science and the agency's former chief scientist.\n\nThe radial pattern on the left of the plaque shows 15 lines emanating from the same origin. Fourteen of the lines have corresponding long binary numbers, which stand for the periods of pulsars, using the hydrogen spin-flip transition frequency as the unit. Since these periods will change over time, the epoch of the launch can be calculated from these values.\n\nThe lengths of the lines show the relative distances of the pulsars to the Sun. A tick mark at the end of each line gives the Z coordinate perpendicular to the galactic plane.\n\nIf the plaque is found, only some of the pulsars may be visible from the location of its discovery. Showing the location with as many as 14 pulsars provides redundancy so that the location of the origin can be triangulated even if only some of the pulsars are recognized.\n\nThe data for one of the pulsars is misleading. When the plaque was designed, the frequency of pulsar \"1240\" (now known as J1243-6423) was known to only three significant decimal digits: 0.388 second. The map lists the period of this pulsar in binary to much greater precision: 100000110110010110001001111000. Rounding this off at about 10 significant bits (100000110100000000000000000000) would have provided a hint of this uncertainty. This pulsar is represented by the long line pointing down and to the right.\n\nThe fifteenth line on the plaque extends to the far right, behind the human figures. This line indicates the Sun's relative distance to the center of the galaxy.\n\nThe pulsar map and hydrogen atom diagram are shared in common with the Voyager Golden Record.\n\nAt the bottom of the plaque is a schematic diagram of the Solar System. A small picture of the spacecraft is shown, and the trajectory shows its way past Jupiter and out of the Solar System. Both \"Pioneers 10\" and \"11\" have identical plaques; however, after launch, Pioneer 11 was redirected toward Saturn and from there it exited the Solar System. In this regard the \"Pioneer 11\" plaque is somewhat inaccurate.\nThe Saturn flyby of \"Pioneer 11\" would also greatly influence its future direction and destination as compared to \"Pioneer 10\", but this fact is not depicted in the plaques.\n\nSaturn's rings could give a further hint to identifying the Solar System. Rings around the planets Jupiter, Uranus, and Neptune were unknown when the plaque was designed; however, unlike Saturn, the ring systems on these planets are not so easily visible and apparent as Saturn's. Pluto was considered to be a planet when the plaque was designed; in 2006 the IAU reclassified Pluto as a dwarf planet and then in 2008 as a plutoid. Other large bodies classed as dwarf planets, such as Eris, are not depicted, as they were unknown at the time the plaque was made.\n\nThe binary numbers above and below the planets show the relative distance to the Sun. The unit is 1/10 of Mercury's orbit. Rather than the familiar \"1\" and \"0\", \"I\" and \"-\" are used.\n\nBehind the figures of the human beings, the silhouette of the Pioneer spacecraft is shown in the same scale so that the size of the human beings can be deduced by measuring the spacecraft.\n\nOne of the parts of the diagram that is among the easiest for humans to understand may be among the hardest for the extraterrestrial finders to understand: the arrow showing the trajectory of Pioneer. An article in \"Scientific American\" criticized the use of an arrow because arrows are an artifact of hunter-gatherer societies like those on Earth; finders with a different cultural heritage may find the arrow symbol meaningless.\n\nArt critic and activist Craig Owens said that sexual bias is exhibited by the choice to make the man in the diagram perform the wave gesture to greet the extraterrestrials while the woman in the diagram has her hands at her sides. Feminists also took issue with this choice for the same reason.\n\nCarl Sagan regretted that the figures in the finished engraving failed to look panracial. Although this was the intent, the final figures appeared Caucasian. In the original drawing, the man was drawn with an \"Afro\" haircut, so an additional African physical trait would be included in the man to make the figures look more panracial, but that detail was changed to a \"non-African Mediterranean-curly haircut\" in the finished engraving. Furthermore, Carl Sagan said that Linda Sagan intended to portray both the man and woman as having brown hair, but the hair being only outlined rather than being both outlined and shaded made the hair appear blonde instead. Other people had different interpretations of the race of people depicted by the figures. Whites, blacks and Asians each tended to think that the figures resembled their own racial group, so, although some people were proud that their race appeared to have been selected to represent all of humankind, others viewed the figures as \"terribly racist\" for \"the apparently blatant exclusion\" of other races.\n\nLinda Sagan decided to make the figures nude to address the problem of the type of clothes they should wear to represent all of humanity and to make the figures more anatomically educational for extraterrestrials, but their nudity was viewed as pornographic by the American media. According to astronomer Frank Drake, there were many negative reactions to the plaque because the human beings were displayed naked. When images of the final design were published in American newspapers, one newspaper published the image with the man's genitalia removed and another newspaper published the image with both the man's genitalia and the woman's nipples removed. In one letter to a newspaper, a person angrily wrote that they felt that the nudity of the images made the images obscene. In contrast, in another letter to the same newspaper, a person was critical of the prudishness of the people who found depictions of nudity to be obscene.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "526911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526911", "title": "Power Rangers Wild Force", "text": "Power Rangers Wild Force\n\nPower Rangers Wild Force is an American television series and the tenth season and anniversary of the \"Power Rangers\" franchise, based on the Super Sentai series \"Hyakujuu Sentai Gaoranger\", which itself was the 25th anniversary of Super Sentai.\n\n\"Power Rangers Wild Force\" takes place in 2002. The first part of the series was originally broadcast from February to August 2002 on the Fox Kids television block. Following the sale of Fox Family Worldwide (renamed ABC Family Worldwide) including Saban Entertainment (renamed BVS Entertainment) to Disney by Haim Saban and News Corporation, Fox Network's parent company, the show was moved in the fall 2002 to ABC's new Saturday morning block, ABC Kids (formerly Disney's One Saturday Morning).\n\nThe series follows the adventure of Cole Evans, who had been staying with a tribe in a jungle for many years, as he tries to find his destiny in the fictitious town of Turtle Cove. He encounters the Animarium, a place that many believed to be a fairy tale. He joins four others who had a common path to become the new leader of the \"Wild Force Power Rangers\".\n\nThe Animarium is an island that floats in the sky. It is shaped like a turtle and is the home of the Wild Zords and Princess Shayla, the Rangers' mentor. \n\nThe Power Rangers use their powers to defeat the forces of the Orgs, led by one Master Org. As Cole was fond of other animals, he was shocked to discover that the Orgs were literally heartless horned monsters. As the series continues, he finds out the truth about his real parents: his parents, Richard and Elizabeth Evans, were professors at Turtle Cove University, along with a family friend, Dr Viktor Adler who was secretly in love with Elizabeth. When they were sent to the jungle for research, they discover the remains of Master Org, in which a jealous Adler consumes in order to exact revenge on Richard, who had proposed to Elizabeth before he could. However, Adler goes insane, and kills both Richard and Elizabeth. For a while, their newborn son, Cole, was also presumed dead.\n\nIn addition to the annual team-up episodes, \"Power Rangers Wild Force\" also had a special episode commemorating it as the tenth incarnation, \"Forever Red\", by having Cole team up with the nine Red Rangers before him, (in order of incarnations, Jason Lee Scott, Aurico, Tommy Oliver, T.J. Johnson, Andros, Leo Corbett, Carter Grayson, Wesley \"Wes\" Collins and Eric Myers), in order to prevent the remaining generals of the Machine Empire from unearthing and reactivating Lord Zedd's zord, Serpentera, which had been left buried on the moon.\n\nWild Force Rangers\n\nAllies\n\nVillains\nMachine Empire\n\n\"Wild Force\" was the first season to be under the copyright of Disney Enterprises. Disney had bought Power Rangers (along with other Saban properties) at the end of \"Power Rangers Time Force\". It was the last season to be produced in the United States by MMPR Productions as pre-production for Wild Force began before the buyout as well as they still had a contract for Fox Kids. Disney's acquisition resulted in Wild Force having to be finished far sooner than expected as Disney would cut the budget for the show completely. The season's promotional photo was merely a photo of the main cast standing together on set in-between shots as there was no money to do it professionally.\n\nWhen this programming block expired, the series moved to ABC Kids in September 2002. ABC Family would rerun encore presentations while the show premiered both on Fox Kids and on ABC Kids in 2002. Following this season, production of the \"Power Rangers\" franchise moved from Los Angeles, California to New Zealand which resulted in many crew members and all voice actors being laid off.\n"}
{"id": "1229078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229078", "title": "Publicly funded elections", "text": "Publicly funded elections\n\nPublicly funded elections are designed to reduce corruption by funding elections with federal tax revenue or income tax donations as opposed to corporate campaign contributions or individuals with disproportionate wealth. The purpose is to remove undue monetary influence on politicians. It is an attempt to move toward one person one vote in a democracy.\n\nMethods of publicly funded election legislation have been adopted in Maine, Connecticut, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Michigan, Arizona, North Carolina, New Mexico, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, and Massachusetts. In addition, public funding of elections have been incorporated at the municipal level in several cities. Wisconsin's 33 year old program was defunded by the state legislature in 2011 by Gov. Scott Walker and the legislature's joint finance committee. California recently overturned its ban on publicly funded elections, but charter cities like San Francisco and Los Angeles were already exempt from the ban and already have some form of public financing.\n\nSome of these laws have run into constitutional problems in the courts. When the Citizens United v. FEC decision defined money as a form of speech, the ability to limit campaign spending and publicly finance campaigns in cities and states came into question. Some portions (such as state supplemental funds for publicly financed candidates whose opponents outspend them) of the Vermont system were found newly unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Randall v. Sorrell.\", but the core program of full funding of governor and lieutenant governor candidates remains in place. Portions of Connecticut's statute were held unconstitutional in 2009, on the grounds that it unfairly discriminated against third party and independent candidates, but the core program of full funding of constitutional and legislative candidates remains in place. In July 2010 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit upheld portions of the District court's order but allowed the core program to continue.\n\nOn June 27, 2011, ruling in the consolidated cases \"Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett\" and \"McComish v. Bennett\", the Supreme Court deemed unconstitutional the matching-funds provision of the Arizona law. The decision cast doubt on the new constitutionality of similar provisions in Maine, Wisconsin, and elsewhere. As a result, the Wisconsin legislature eliminated funding for its judicial elections in 2011.\n\nAdditionally, voters have not supported publicly funded elections in several referendums. In Massachusetts the system was repealed after a 2002 advisory initiative in which voters voted nearly 2 to 1 against using government funds to pay for political campaigns. Portland, Oregon's program was narrowly repealed by voters in a 2010 referendum. In 2008, a Clean Elections bill, the California Fair Elections Act (AB583) passed the California Assembly and Senate and was signed by Governor Schwarzenegger. Because of the ban on publicly funded elections, the law had to be approved by voters in an initiative in June 2010. On June 8, 2010, California voters defeated the measure by 57% to 43%. An earlier Clean Elections ballot initiative, Proposition 89 was also defeated in California in 2006, by 74% against to 26% in favor of a corporate tax to fund elections. A Clean Elections ballot initiative in Alaska failed by a 64% to 35% margin in August 2008.\n\nIn 2013, North Carolina repealed its popular \"Voter Owned Elections\" program of public financing of judicial campaigns with 900 people arrested at the Moral Monday protests in Raleigh.\n\nComprehensive public funding systems have been in effect in Arizona and Maine since 2000. In Maine, since enactment, approximately three quarters of state legislators have run their campaigns with government funds provided by the state program. In Arizona, a majority of the state house and both the Republican and Democratic candidates for Governor ran publicly financed campaigns in 2006. There has not yet been a statewide election in Maine in which both the Republican and Democratic candidates were financed through the public financing system.\n\nThe United Kingdom, Norway, India, Russia, Brazil, Nigeria, Sweden are some jurisdictions where methods of publicly funded election legislation and the reasons for the need of alternatives to privately funded campaigns have been considered. http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/24/world/global-campaign-finance/index.html\n\n\"Clean Elections\" is the name supporters have given to some public financing efforts, used most prominently in Maine and Arizona.\n\nSome Clean Elections laws provide a government grant to candidates who agree to limit their spending and private fundraising. Candidates participating in a Clean Elections system are required to meet certain qualification criteria, which usually includes collecting a number of signatures and small contributions (generally determined by statute and set at $5 in both Maine and Arizona) before the candidate can receive public support. In most Clean Elections programs, these qualifying contributions must be given by constituents. To receive the government campaign grant, \"Clean Candidates\" must agree to forgo all other fundraising and accept no other private or personal funds. Candidates who choose not to participate are subject to limits on their fundraising, typically in the form of limits on the size of contributions they may accept and the sources of those contributions (such as limits on corporate or union contributions), and detailed reporting requirements.\n\nIn the US, in order to comply with \"Buckley v. Valeo\", participation by candidates is not legally required. Originally, many Clean Elections programs provided that publicly financed candidates who were outspent by a privately funded candidate could receive additional funds (sometimes called \"rescue funds\") to match their privately funded opponent, up to a cap, with the intent of assuring that a candidate running with private funding would not outspend his government funded opponent. However, in Arizona Free Enterprise Club's Freedom Club PAC v. Bennett, the U.S. Supreme Court held that such \"rescue fund\" provisions unconstitutionally burdened the rights of speakers by intentionally limiting the effectiveness of their own speech. Thus since Bennett clean elections systems in the U.S. have been forced to abandon the \"rescue funds\" approach.\n\nIn the US, SB 752, the Fair Elections Now Act, calling for publicly funded elections in U.S. Senate campaigns, was sponsored in the 111th Congress (2009–10) by Senators: Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Arlen Specter (D-PA). A companion bill, H.R. 1826, was introduced in the House, sponsored by John Larson (D-CT), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Walter Jones (R-NC). Unlike the Clean Elections laws in Maine and Arizona, H.R. 1826 did not include the \"rescue funds\" provision, perhaps due to concern about constitutionality in the wake of the Davis decision. Neither bill moved out of Committee.\n\nOthers who have endorsed clean elections include:\n\n\n\nCountry-specific (International):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8722247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8722247", "title": "Ramayana Centre", "text": "Ramayana Centre\n\nThe Ramayana Centre is cultural and spiritual organization based in Port Louis, Mauritius. It was founded in 2001 by an act passed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Mauritius to promote and propagate the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\" and the spiritual, social and cultural values flowing therefrom. Prior to this, no parliament of any country had enacted a Bill or set up an institution for the dissemination of the perennial values of the Ramayana.\n\nThe Bill was unanimously approved on May 22, 2001 and was proclaimed as an Act by the President of the Republic on June 14, 2001. It was published in the \"Government Gazette\" No. 64 on June 30, 2001.\n\nThe president of the Ramayana Centre is Pandit Rajendra Arun, scholar of the Ramayana and author of several books on various characters of the Ramayana. In 2002, on Tulsi Jayanti day, the foundation stone of the Ramayana Center laid by Prime Minister, Anerood Jugnauth. Subsequently the building of formally inaugurated in 2007 by the then Prime Minister Dr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam. \n\n"}
{"id": "4306348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4306348", "title": "Rolling Thunder 2", "text": "Rolling Thunder 2\n\nSet in the 1990s, the Geldra organization, thought to had been destroyed during the first game, returns and is destroying several of the world's satellites in outer space. As in the original \"Rolling Thunder\", the players must take control of a member of the WCPO's Rolling Thunder task force.\n\nTwo players can now play simultaneously, with Player 1 as female agent Leila and Player 2 as male agent Albatross. Even though they possess different external appearances, including different handguns, the two characters have identical abilities (much like Yūichirō Tomari and Sunday Chin from Namco's own \"Ordyne\", which was released two years earlier and is also a Namco System 2 game). As with the original game, both Leila and Albatross can only take two physical hits from the enemies - and a hit from a bullet or other projectile such as a laser will result in an immediate death for them. Both of them are armed with a default pistol that has only limited ammo; when bullets run out, their guns shall fire a slow \"chaser\" bullet instead. The players can also upgrade to a semi-automatic machine gun, by entering marked doors - and when entering one of these marked doors, a counter shall appear, which indicates the number of remaining bullets left to be picked up (allowing one player to leave ammo for the other).\n\nThe graphics are noticeably improved over the previous game and have a decidedly more futuristic look to go along with the game's modern setting; the game's main enemy characters, the Maskers, who were previously designed to look like hooded terrorists (or Foot Soldiers of the original \"Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles\" arcade game) are now cyborgs. Likewise, the game has more varied stage designs, with the first four stages taking place in a seaside resort in Florida, and the last four stages in a pyramid in Egypt - both locations are actually camouflaged Geldra bases.\n\nThe Mega Drive/Genesis port differs from the arcade original by its inclusion of cut scenes before each stage, consisting of a single static images displayed above a scrolling text that narrates the story's progression; there are also three additional stages not present in the original arcade version, that take place between the arcade's original stages. These stages stand out from their arcade counterparts due to the presence of different upgradeable weapons and end-stage bosses. The Genesis version also features hidden power-ups in unmarked doors such as time extensions, energy recovery, and extra lives.\n\nMuch like in the NES port of the original game, a password feature has which uses full sentences instead of numerals and a harder difficulty level after completing the normal game. Both the original \"Rolling Thunder 2\" arcade game and Genesis conversion are available on the Wii Virtual Console service (and the Genesis conversion was again released on there first).\n\nThe home version of \"Rolling Thunder 2\" was well received. Its mostly highly positive review scores included 92% from \"Computer & Video Games\", 23/25 from \"GamePro\", 85% from \"Mean Machines\", 90% from \"MegaTech\", and, retrospectively, 8/10 from Sega-16. Reviews of the Virtual Console release were often more critical, including being rated 6/10 by GameSpot, 6.5/10 by IGN, and 8/10 by Nintendo Life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23512043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23512043", "title": "Rowland G. Hazard", "text": "Rowland G. Hazard\n\nRowland Gibson Hazard (October 9, 1801 – June 24, 1888) was an American industrialist, politician, and social reformer.\n\nHazard was born in South Kingstown, Rhode Island in 1801. His parents were Rowland Hazard (sometimes referred to as Rowland Hazard I), founder in 1802 of the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company in Peace Dale, Rhode Island, and the former Mary Peace. He grew up in Bristol, Pennsylvania, in the home of his maternal grandfather, Isaac Peace. He was educated in a Quaker boarding school in Burlington, New Jersey, where he developed a particular interest in mathematics. In 1819 he returned to Rhode Island to join his elder brother Isaac in the management of the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company.\n\nIn 1828 he married Caroline Newbold of Bucks County, Pennsylvania. The couple had two sons, Rowland II and John.\n\nA third brother, Joseph P. Hazard, became a partner in the Peace Dale operation in 1828, and the business took the name \"R.G. Hazard & Co.\" One of Rowland Hazard's responsibilities was selling the company's products to planters in the southern United States, particularly Louisiana, Alabama and Mississippi. He spent winters in New Orleans from about 1833 to 1842 to sell goods that included cotton bagging cloth, pre-cut garments, low-priced shoes, and raw \"Negro cloth\" for use by African-American slaves.\n\nAfter an 1845 fire destroyed one of the mill buildings, the brothers built new facilities, including expanded hydropower systems and a fireproof stone factory.\n\nIn 1848 the partnership incorporated, becoming the Peace Dale Manufacturing Company, with Isaac P. Hazard as president and Rowland Hazard as secretary/treasurer. In 1849 the business started a transition into making woolen shawls and other high-quality woolens instead of cheaper fabrics.\n\nIn 1843, Hazard acquired a textile mill complex at the village now known as Carolina, Rhode Island, and renamed the mill and its surrounding village in honor of his wife. The Carolina Mills Company remained in family ownership until 1863 and was operated by his son Rowland II until at least 1877.\n\nThe activity that Hazard considered \"as the greatest effort of his life\" (according to his granddaughter) began when he was in New Orleans on business in the winter of 1841. After he learned that a free African-American man from Newport, Rhode Island was in custody in Louisiana as an escaped slave, his investigations found that many free African-Americans were being detained under the assumption they were escaped slaves. He worked with Jacob Barker, then a New Orleans lawyer, to obtain freedom for nearly 100 people being held as slaves. The action later led to charges being filed against several public officials who were responsible for the illegal detentions.\n\nHis involvement with abolitionist causes and in the Republican Party eventually caused his company to lose favor with its markets in the southern United States. This helped to prompt the Peace Dale mills' transition from making cheap cotton products to selling higher quality woolens.\n\nHazard served three one-year terms in the Rhode Island House of Representatives, winning election as a state representative in 1851, 1854 and 1880. He also was a state senator from 1866 to 1867. In 1856 he was one of Rhode Island's delegates to the founding convention of the Republican Party. Four years later he was a delegate to the 1860 Republican National Convention.\n\nIn 1854, while serving in the state legislature, he made a speech criticizing the Stonington Railroad Company for charging discriminatory rates for both freight and passengers. Shortly thereafter, the railroad company retaliated by refusing to let Hazard ride on one of its trains. Resolutions passed by the South Kingstown Town Council in reaction to his treatment are said to have formed \"the germ of\" the Interstate Commerce Law of 1886.\n\n\"As a public benefactor, Hazard contributed to the schools and churches in South Kingstown and endowed a professorship of physics at Brown University with a gift of $40,000.\" \n\nHazard retired from the textile business in 1866 and invested in the Union Pacific Railroad. After Union Pacific fell into financial disarray and became a party to the Crédit Mobilier scandal of 1872, Hazard spent much time dealing with the company's financial affairs.\n\nHe died in Peace Dale on June 24, 1888.\n\nHazard was a prolific writer in the fields of philosophy, economics, and politics. Among his published works were: \n\n"}
{"id": "2063703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063703", "title": "Sarajevo Haggadah", "text": "Sarajevo Haggadah\n\nThe Sarajevo Haggadah is an illuminated manuscript that contains the illustrated traditional text of the Passover Haggadah which accompanies the Passover Seder. It is one of the oldest Sephardic Haggadahs in the world, originating in Barcelona around 1350. The Haggadah is owned by the National Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Sarajevo. Its monetary value is undetermined, but a museum in Spain required that it be insured for $7 million before it could be transported to an exhibition there in 1992.\n\nThe Sarajevo Haggadah is handwritten on bleached calfskin and illuminated in copper and gold. It opens with 34 pages of illustrations of key scenes in the Bible from creation through the death of Moses. Its pages are stained with wine, evidence that it was used at many Passover Seders.\n\nThe Sarajevo Haggadah was submitted by Bosnia and Herzegovina for inclusion in UNESCO's Memory of the World Register and was included in 2017.\n\nThe Sarajevo Haggadah has survived many close calls with destruction. Historians believe that it was taken out of Spain by Spanish Jews who were expelled by the Alhambra Decree in 1492. Notes in the margins of the Haggadah indicate that it surfaced in Italy in the 16th century. It was sold to the National Museum in Sarajevo in 1894 by a man named Joseph Kohen.\n\nDuring World War II, the manuscript was hidden from the Nazis and Ustashe by the Museum's chief librarian, Derviš Korkut, who at risk to his own life, smuggled the Haggadah out of Sarajevo. Korkut gave it to a Muslim cleric in Zenica, where it was hidden under the floorboards of either a mosque or a Muslim home. In 1957, a facsimile of the Haggadah was published by Sándor Scheiber, director of the Rabbinical Seminary in Budapest. In 1992 during the Bosnian War, the Haggadah manuscript survived a museum break-in and it was discovered on the floor during the police investigation by a local Inspector, Fahrudin Čebo, with many other items thieves believed were not valuable. It survived in an underground bank vault during the Siege of Sarajevo by Serb forces. To quell rumors that the government had sold the Haggadah in order to buy weapons, the president of Bosnia presented the manuscript at a community Seder in 1995.\n\nAfterwards, the manuscript was restored through a special campaign financed by the United Nations and the Bosnian Jewish community in 2001, and went on permanent display at the museum in December 2002.\n\nIn 1985 a reproduction was printed in Ljubljana, with 5,000 copies made. The National Museum subsequently authorized the publication of a limited number of reproductions of the Haggadah, each of which has become a collector's item. In May 2006, the Sarajevo publishing house Rabic Ltd., announced the forthcoming publication of 613 copies of the Haggadah on handmade parchment that attempts to recreate the original appearance of the 14th century original, alluding to the 613 Mitzvot.\n\nThere is a brief mention of the manuscript in the motion picture \"Welcome to Sarajevo\". The novel \"People of the Book\", by Geraldine Brooks (2008), crafts a fictionalised history of the Haggadah from its origins in Spain to the museum in Sarajevo. The Winter, 2002, issue of the literary journal Brick published Ramona Koval's account of the disputes surrounding the proposed UNESCO-funded display of the original codex in the context of the post-Dayton Agreement UN-supervised 1995 peace settlement.\n\nThe history of Derviš Korkut, who saved the book from the Nazis, was told in an article by Geraldine Brooks in \"The New Yorker\" magazine. The article also sets out the story of the young Jewish girl, Mira Papo, whom Korkut and his wife hid from the Nazis as they were acting to save the Haggadah. In a twist of fate, as an elderly woman in Israel, Mira Papo secured the safety of Korkut's daughter during the Bosnian war in the 1990s.\n\nA copy of the Sarajevo Haggadah was given to former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair by the Grand Mufti of Bosnia and Herzegovina Mustafa Ceric during the awards ceremony for the Tony Blair Faith Foundation's Faith Shorts competition in December 2011. The Grand Mufti presented it as a symbol of interfaith cooperation and respect, while recounting the protection of the Jewish book by Muslims on two occasions in history. Another copy was given by the Grand Mufti Ceric to a representative of the Chief Rabbinate of Israel during the interreligious meeting \"Living Together is the Future\" organised in Sarajevo by the Community of Sant'Egidio.\n\nIn October 2012, the Haggadah's future exhibition was left in limbo following a drought in funding for the National Museum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which shuttered its doors after going bankrupt and not paying its employees for almost a year. In 2013 the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art attempted to arrange for a loan of the Haggadah, but due to internal political battles within Bosnia and Herzegovina, the loan was eventually refused by Bosnia’s National Monuments Preservation Commission.\n\nHowever, the Haggadah was again on display as of September 2015, following the National Museum's re-opening. \n\n"}
{"id": "32148878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32148878", "title": "Social metabolism", "text": "Social metabolism\n\nSocial metabolism or socioeconomic metabolism is the set of flows of materials and energy that occur between Nature and society, between different societies, and within societies. These human-controlled material and energy flows are a basic feature of all societies but their magnitude and diversity largely depend on specific cultures, or sociometabolic regimes.\nSocial or socioeconomic metabolism is also described as \"the self-reproduction and evolution of the biophysical structures of human society. It comprises those biophysical transformation processes, distribution processes, and flows, which are controlled by humans for their purposes. The biophysical structures of society (‘in use stocks’) and socioeconomic metabolism together form the biophysical basis of society.\"\nSocial metabolic processes begin with the human \"appropriation\" of materials and energy from nature. These can be \"transformed\" and \"circulated\" to be \"consumed\" and \"excreted\" finally back to Nature itself. Each of these processes has a different environmental impact depending on how it is performed, the amount of materials and energy involved in the process, the area where it occurs, the time available or the Nature's regenerative capacity.\n\nSocial metabolism represents an extension of the metabolism concept from human bodies to the biophysical basis of society. Humans build and operate mines and farms, oil refineries and power stations, factories and infrastructure to supply the energy and material flows needed for the physical reproduction of a specific culture. In-use stocks, which comprise buildings, vehicles, appliances, infrastructure, etc., are built up and maintained by the different industrial processes that are part of social metabolism. These stocks then provide service to people in form of shelter, transportation, or communication.\n\nSociety and its metabolism together form an autopoietic system, a complex system that reproduces itself. Neither culture nor social metabolism can reproduce themselves in isolation. Humans need food and shelter, which is delivered by social metabolism, and the latter needs humans to operate it.\n\nStudies of social metabolism can be carried out at different levels of system aggregation, see material flow analysis. In material flow accounting, for example, the inputs and outputs of materials and energy of a particular state or region, as well as imports and exports, are analysed. Such studies are facilitated by the ease of access to information about commercial transactions. \n\nSocial or socioeconomic metabolism stipulates that human society and its interaction with Nature form a complex self-reproducing system, and it can therefore be seen as paradigm for studying the biophysical basis of human societies under the aspect of self-reproduction. \"A common paradigm can facilitate model combination and integration, which can lead to more robust and comprehensive interdisciplinary assessments of sustainable development strategies. ... The use of social or socioeconomic metabolism as paradigm can help to justify alternative economic concepts.\"\n"}
{"id": "575646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=575646", "title": "State Anthem of Uzbekistan", "text": "State Anthem of Uzbekistan\n\nThe State Anthem of the Republic of Uzbekistan came into being when Uzbekistan was a republic of the Soviet Union. Upon independence in 1991, lacking any other suitable candidate, the tune of the old Uzbek SSR anthem, composed by Mutal Burhanov, was retained with new lyrics written by Abdulla Oripov. This is broadcast when Uzbek radio and television stations sign on at 5:55 a.m.\n\nTypically, the anthem's music is played in G major.\n\nThe modern anthem only has two verses and two choruses, while the Uzbek SSR Anthem had three of each, arranged in a similar structure.\n"}
{"id": "58039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58039", "title": "Stuckism", "text": "Stuckism\n\nStuckism () is an international art movement founded in 1999 by Billy Childish and Charles Thomson to promote figurative painting as opposed to conceptual art. By May 2017 the initial group of 13 British artists had expanded to 236 groups in 52 countries.\n\nChildish and Thomson have issued several manifestos. The first one was \"The Stuckists\", consisting of 20 points starting with \"Stuckism is a quest for authenticity\". \"Remodernism\", the other well-known manifesto of the movement, is a criticism of postmodernism; it aims to get back to the true spirit of modernism, to produce art with spiritual value regardless of style, subject matter or medium. In another manifesto they define themselves as \"anti-anti-art\" which is against anti-art and for art.\n\nAfter exhibiting in small galleries in Shoreditch, London, the Stuckists' first show in a major public museum was held in 2004 at the Walker Art Gallery, as part of the Liverpool Biennial. The group has demonstrated annually at Tate Britain against the Turner Prize since 2000, sometimes dressed in clown costumes. They have also come out in opposition to the Charles Saatchi-patronised Young British Artists.\n\nAlthough painting is the dominant artistic form of Stuckism, artists using other media such as photography, sculpture, film and collage have also joined, and share the Stuckist opposition to conceptualism and \"ego-art.\"\n\nThe name \"Stuckism\" was coined in January 1999 by Charles Thomson in response to a poem read to him several times by Billy Childish. In it, Childish recites that his former girlfriend, Tracey Emin had said he was \"stuck! stuck! stuck!\" with his art, poetry and music. Later that month, Thomson approached Childish with a view to co-founding an art group called Stuckism, which Childish agreed to, on the basis that Thomson would do the work for the group, as Childish already had a full schedule.\n\nThere were eleven other founding members: Philip Absolon, Frances Castle, Sheila Clark, Eamon Everall, Ella Guru, Wolf Howard, Bill Lewis, Sanchia Lewis, Joe Machine, Sexton Ming, and Charles Williams. The membership has evolved since its founding through creative collaborations: the group was originally promoted as working in paint, but members have since worked in various other media, including poetry, fiction, performance, photography, film and music.\n\nIn 1979, Thomson, Childish, Bill Lewis and Ming were members of The Medway Poets performance group, to which Absolon and Sanchia Lewis had earlier contributed. Peter Waite's Rochester Pottery staged a series of solo painting shows. In 1982, TVS broadcast a documentary on the poets. That year, Emin, then a fashion student, and Childish started a relationship; her writing was edited by Bill Lewis, printed by Thomson and published by Childish. Group members published dozens of works. The poetry group dispersed after two years, reconvening in 1987 to record \"The Medway Poets\" LP. Clark, Howard and Machine became involved over the following years. Thomson got to know Williams, who was a local art student and whose girlfriend was a friend of Emin; Thomson also met Everall. During the foundation of the group, Ming brought in his girlfriend, Guru, who in turn invited Castle.\n\nIn August 1999, Childish and Thomson wrote \"The Stuckists manifesto\" which stress the value of painting as a medium, its use for communication, and the expression of emotion and experience – as opposed to what Stuckists see as the superficial novelty, nihilism and irony of conceptual art and postmodernism. The most contentious statement in the manifesto is: \"Artists who don't paint aren't artists\".\n\nThe second and third manifestos, \"An Open Letter to Sir Nicholas Serota\" and \"Remodernism\" respectively, were sent to the director of the Tate, Nicholas Serota. He sent a brief reply: \"Thank you for your open letter dated 6 March. You will not be surprised to learn that I have no comment to make on your letter, or your manifesto 'Remodernism'.\"\n\nIn the \"Remodernism\" manifesto, the Stuckists declared that they aimed to replace postmodernism with remodernism, a period of renewed spiritual (as opposed to religious) values in art, culture and society. Other manifestos have included \"Handy Hints\", \"Anti-anti-art\", \"The Cappuccino writer and the Idiocy of Contemporary Writing\", \"The Turner Prize\", \"The Decreptitude of the Critic\" and \"Stuckist critique of Damien Hirst\".\n\nIn \"Anti-anti-art\", the Stuckists outlined their opposition to what is known as \"anti-art\". Stuckists claim that conceptual art is justified by the work of Marcel Duchamp, but that Duchamp's work is \"anti-art by intent and effect\". The Stuckists feel that \"Duchamp's work was a protest against the stale, unthinking artistic establishment of his day\", while \"the great (but wholly unintentional) irony of postmodernism is that it is a direct equivalent of the conformist, unoriginal establishment that Duchamp attacked in the first place\".\n\nManifestos have been written by other Stuckists, including the Students for Stuckism group. An \"Underage Stuckists\" group was founded in 2006 with a manifesto for teenagers written by two 16-year-olds, Liv Soul and Rebekah Maybury, on MySpace.\n\nIn July 1999, the Stuckists were first mentioned in the media, in an article in \"The Evening Standard\" and soon gained other coverage, helped by press interest in Tracey Emin, who had been nominated for the Turner Prize.\n\nThe first Stuckist show was \"Stuck! Stuck! Stuck!\" in September 1999 in Joe Crompton's in Shoreditch Gallery 108 (now defunct), followed by \"The Resignation of Sir Nicholas Serota\". In 2000 they staged \"The Real Turner Prize Show\" at the same time as the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize exhibition.\n\nA \"Students for Stuckism\" group was founded in 2000 by students from Camberwell College of Arts, who staged their own exhibition. S.P. Howarth was expelled from the painting degree course at Camberwell college for his paintings, and had the first solo exhibit at the Stuckism International Gallery in 2002, named \"I Don't Want a Painting Degree if it Means Not Painting\".\n\nThomson stood as a Stuckist candidate for the 2001 British General Election, in the constituency of Islington South & Finsbury, against Chris Smith, the then Secretary of State for Culture. He picked up 108 votes (0.4%). Childish left the group at this time because he objected to Thomson's leadership.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2005 Thomson ran the Stuckism International Centre and Gallery in Shoreditch, London. In 2003, under the title \"A Dead Shark Isn't Art\", the gallery exhibited a shark which had first been put on public display in 1989 (two years before Damien Hirst's) by Eddie Saunders in his Shoreditch shop, JD Electrical Supplies. It was suggested that Hirst may have seen this and copied it.\n\nIn 2003 they reported Charles Saatchi to the UK Office of Fair Trading, complaining that he had an effective monopoly on art. The complaint was not upheld. In 2003, an allied group, Stuckism Photography, was founded by Larry Dunstan and Andy Bullock. In 2005 the Stuckists offered a donation of 175 paintings from the Walker show to the Tate, but it was rejected by the Tate's trustees.\n\nIn August 2005 Thomson alerted the press to the fact that the Tate had purchased a work by Chris Ofili, \"The Upper Room\", for £705,000 while the artist was a serving Tate trustee. Fraser Kee Scott, owner of A Gallery, demonstrated with the Stuckists outside the Tate Gallery against the gallery's purchase of \"The Upper Room\". Scott said in \"The Daily Telegraph\" that the Tate Gallery's chairman, Paul Myners, was hypocritical for refusing to divulge the price paid. Ofili had asked other artists to donate work to the gallery. In July 2006 the Charity Commission censured the gallery for acting outside its legal powers. Sir Nicholas Serota stated that the Stuckists had \"acted in the public interest\".\n\nIn October 2006, the Stuckists staged their first exhibition, \"Go West\", in a commercial West End gallery, Spectrum London, signalling their entry as \"major players\" in the art world.\n\nAn international symposium on Stuckism took place in October 2006 at the Liverpool John Moores University during the Liverpool Biennial. The programme was led by Naive John, founder of the Liverpool Stuckists. There was an accompanying exhibition in the 68 Hope Gallery at Liverpool School of Art and Design (John Moores University Gallery).\n\nBy 2006 there were 63 Stuckist groups in the UK. Members include Naive John, Mark D, Elsa Dax, Paul Harvey, Jane Kelly, Udaiyan, Peter McArdle, Peter Murphy, Rachel Jordan, Guy Denning and Abby Jackson. John Bourne opened Stuckism Wales at his home, a permanent exhibition of (mainly Welsh) paintings. Mandy McCartin is a regular guest artist.\n\nIn 2010, Paul Harvey's painting of Charles Saatchi was banned from the window display of the Artspace Gallery in Maddox Street, London, on the grounds that it was \"too controversial for the area\". It was the centrepiece of the show, \"Stuckist Clowns Doing Their Dirty Work\", the first exhibition of the Stuckists in Mayfair, and depicted Saatchi with a sheep at his feet and a halo made from a cheese wrapper. The Saatchi Gallery said that Saatchi \"would not have any problem\" with the painting's display. The gallery announced they were shutting down the show. Harvey said, \"I did it to make Saatchi look friendly and human. It's a ludicrous decision\".\nThe Stuckists considered legal action, and protested with emails to the gallery. Subsequently, the painting was reinstated and the show continued.\n\nThe Stuckists gained significant media coverage for eight years of protests (2000–2006 and 2008) outside Tate Britain against the Turner Prize, sometimes dressed as clowns. In 2001 they demonstrated in Trafalgar Square at the unveiling of Rachel Whiteread's \"Monument\". In 2002, they carried a coffin marked \"The Death of Conceptual Art\" to the White Cube Gallery. In 2004 outside the launch of \"The Triumph of Painting\" at the Saatchi Gallery they wore tall hats with Charles Saatchi's face emblazoned and carried placards claiming that Saatchi had copied their ideas.\n\nEvents outside Britain have included \"The Clown Trial of President Bush\" held in New Haven in 2003 to protest against the Iraq War. Michael Dickinson has exhibited political and satirical collages in Turkey for which he was arrested, and charged, but acquitted of any crime—an outcome which was seen to have positive implications for Turkey's relationship with the European Union.\n\n\"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\" was the first national gallery exhibition of Stuckist art. It was held at the Walker Art Gallery and Lady Lever Art Gallery and was part of the 2004 Liverpool Biennial. It consisted of over 250 paintings by 37 artists, mostly from the UK but also with a representation of international Stuckist artists from the US, Germany and Australia. There was an accompanying exhibition of Stuckist photographers. A book, \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\", was published to accompany the exhibition. \"Daily Mail\" journalist Jane Kelly exhibited a painting of Myra Hindley in the show, which may have been the cause of her dismissal from her job.\n\nIn July 2007, the Stuckists held an exhibition at A Gallery, \"I Won't Have Sex with You as long as We're Married\", titled after words apparently said to Thomson by his ex-wife, Stella Vine on their wedding night. The show coincided with the opening of Vine's major show at Modern Art Oxford and was prompted by Thomson's anger that the material promoting her show did not mention her time with the Stuckists. Tate chairman Paul Myners visited both shows.\n\nCharles Thomson's painting, \"Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision\", as Charlotte Cripps of \"The Independent\" wrote is one of the best known paintings to come out of the Stuckist movement, and as Jane Morris wrote in \"The Guardian\" it's a likely \"signature piece\" for the movement, standing for its opposition to conceptual art. Painted in 2000, the piece has been exhibited in later Stuckist shows, and featured on placards in Stuckist demonstrations against the Turner Prize. It depicts Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery and the usual chairman of the Turner Prize jury, and satirises Young British Artist Tracey Emin's installation, \"My Bed\", consisting of her bed and objects, including knickers, which she exhibited in 1999 as a Turner Prize nominee.\n\nIn 2000 Regan Tamanui started the first Stuckist group outside Britain in Melbourne, Australia, and it was decided that other artists should be free to start their own groups also, named after their locality. Stuckism has since grown into an international art movement of 233 groups in 52 countries, as of July 2012.\n\nMafa Bamba founded \"The Abidgan Stuckists\" in 2001 in Ivory Coast and Kari Seid founded \"The Cape Town Stuckists\" in 2008 in South Africa.\n\nIn 2000, Susan Constanse founded the first US group \"The Pittsburgh Stuckists\" in Pittsburgh—the second group to be founded outside the UK. This was announced in the \"In Pittsburgh Weekly\", 1 November 2000: \"The new word in art is Stuckism. A Stuckist paints their life, mind and soul with no pretensions and no excuses.\" By 2011 there are 44 US Stuckist groups. There have been Stuckist shows and demonstrations in the US, and American Stuckists have also exhibited in international Stuckist shows abroad. US Stuckists include Ron Throop, Jeffrey Scott Holland, Tony Juliano, Frank Kozik and Terry Marks. There are also 4 Stuckist groups in Canada including \"The White Rock Stuckists\" in British Columbia founded by David Wilson.\n\nAsim Butt founded the first Pakistani Stuckist group, \"The Karachi Stuckists\", in 2005. At the end of 2009 he was thinking of expanding \"The Karachi Stuckists\" with new members, but on 15 January 2010 he committed suicide. In 2011 Sheherbano Husain restarted the group.\n\n\"The Tehran Stuckists\" is an Iranian Stuckist, Remodernist and anti-anti-art group of painters founded in 2007 in Tehran, which is a major protagonist of Asian Stuckism. In April 2010 they curated the first Stuckist exhibition in Iran, \"Tehran Stuckists: Searching for the Unlimited Potentials of Figurative Painting\", at Iran Artists Forum, Mirmiran Gallery. Their second exhibition, \"International Stuckists: Painters Out of Order\", including paintings by Stuckists from Iran, Britain, USA, Spain, South Africa, Pakistan and Turkey was held at Day Gallery in November 2013. Although one of the main aspects of Stuckism movement is that \"the Stuckist allows him/herself uncensored expression\", but \"The Tehran Stuckists\"' exhibitions in Iran are censored and they are not allowed to exhibit some of their artworks in Iranian galleries. The group has also participated in Stuckist exhibitions in Britain, Lithuania and Spain.\n\nOther Asian Stuckists are Shelley Li (China), Smeetha Boumik (India), Joko Apridinoto (Indonesia), Elio Yuri Figini (Japan) and Fady Chamaa (Lebanon).\n\n\"The Prague Stuckists\" were founded in 2005 in the Czech Republic by Robert Janás, Other Stuckist artists in Europe include Peter Klint (Germany), Michael Dickinson (Turkey), Odysseus Yakoumakis (Greece), Artista Eli (Spain), Kloot Per W (Belgium), Jaroslav Valečka (Czech Republic), Jiří Hauschka (Czech Republic), Markéta Korečková (Czech Republic), Ján Macko (Slovakia) and Pavel Lefterov (Bulgaria).\n\nIn October 2000, Regan Tamanui founded \"The Melbourne Stuckists\" in Melbourne, the fourth Stuckist group to be started and the first one outside the UK. On 27 October 2000, he staged the \"Real Turner Prize Show\" at the Dead End Gallery in his home, concurrent with three shows with the same title in England (London, Falmouth and Dartington) and one in Germany in protest against the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize. Other Australian Stuckists include Godfrey Blow, who exhibited in \"The Stuckists Punk Victorian\". In 2005 Mike Mayhew also founded \"The Christchurch Stuckists\" in New Zealand.\n\nCo-founder Billy Childish left the group in 2001, but has stated that he remains committed to its principles. Sexton Ming left to concentrate on a solo career with the Aquarium Gallery. Wolf Howard left in 2006, but has exhibited with the group since. Jesse Richards who ran the Stuckism Centre USA in New Haven, left the group in 2006 to focus on Remodernist film.\n\nIn June 2000, Stella Vine went to a talk given by Childish and Thomson on Stuckism and Remodernism in London. At the end of May 2001, she exhibited some of her paintings publicly for the first time in the \"Vote Stuckist\" show in Brixton, and formed The Westminster Stuckists group. On 4 June, she took part in a Stuckist demonstration in Trafalgar Square. By 10 July, she renamed her group The Unstuckists. In mid-August, Thomson and Vine were married. A work by her was shown in the Stuckist show in Paris, which ended in mid-November, by which time she had rejected the Stuckists, and the marriage had ended.\n\nIn February 2004, Charles Saatchi bought a painting of Diana, Princess of Wales, by Vine and was credited with \"discovering\" her. Thomson said it was the Stuckists and not Saatchi who had discovered her. At the end of March 2004, Thomson made a formal complaint about Saatchi to the Office of Fair Trading, claiming that Saatchi's leading position was monopolistic \"to the detriment of smaller competitors\", citing Vine as an example of this. On 15 April, the OFT closed the file on the case on the basis that Saatchi was not \"in a dominant position in any relevant market.\"\n\nIn 1999, two performance artists, Yuan Chai and Jian Jun Xi, jumped on Tracey Emin's installation \"My Bed\", a work consisting of the artist's own unmade bed, at the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize, in an unauthorised art intervention. Chai had written, among other things, the words \"Anti Stuckism\" on his bare back. Fiachra Gibbons of \"The Guardian\" wrote (in 1999) that the event \"will go down in art history as the defining moment of the new and previously unheard of Anti-Stuckist Movement.\" Writing in \"The Guardian\" ten years later, Jonathan Jones described the Stuckists as \"enemies of art\", and what they say as \"cheap slogans\" and \"hysterical rants\".\n\nThe artist Max Podstolski wrote that the art world needed a new manifesto, as confrontational as that of Futurism or Dadaism, \"written with a heart-felt passion capable of inspiring and rallying art world outsiders, dissenters, rebels, the neglected and disaffected\", and suggests that \"Well now we've got it, in the form of Stuckism\".\n\nNew York art gallery owner Edward Winkleman wrote in 2006 that he had never heard of the Stuckists, so he \"looked them up on Wikipedia\", and stated he was \"turned off by their anti-conceptual stance, not to mention the inanity of their statement about painting, but I'm more than a bit interested in the democratization their movement represents.\" Thomson responded to Winkleman directly.\n\nAlso in 2006, Colin Gleadell, writing in \"The Telegraph\", noted that the Stuckist's first exhibition in central London had brought \"multiple sales\" for leading artists of the movement, and that this raised the question of how good they were at painting. He observed that \"Whatever the critics may say, buyers from the UK, the US and Japan have already taken a punt. Six of Thomson's paintings have sold for between £4,000 and £5,000 each. Joe Machine, a former jailbird who paints for therapeutic reasons, has also sold six paintings for the same price.\"\n\nThe BBC arts correspondent Lawrence Pollard wrote in 2009 that the way was paved for \"cultural agitators\" like the Stuckists, as well as the Vorticists, Surrealists and others, by the Futurist Manifesto of 20 February 1909.\n\nSome UK artists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27861", "title": "Sápmi", "text": "Sápmi\n\nSápmi () is the cultural region traditionally inhabited by the Sami people (previously known as Lapps in English, which is a derogatory term). Sápmi is located in Northern Europe and includes the northern parts of Fennoscandia. The region stretches over four countries: Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia. On the north it is bounded by the Barents Sea, on the west by the Norwegian Sea and on the east by the White Sea.\n\nDespite being the namesake of the region, the Sami people are estimated to only make up around 5% of its total population. No political organization advocates secession, although several groups desire more territorial autonomy and/or more self-determination for the region's indigenous population.\n\nThe area is often referred to in English as Lapland (), but this is erroneous since Lapland is more precisely the interior parts of Swedish Sápmi, and Finnish Sápmi. The Norwegian and Russian parts of Sápmi are not part of Lapland. Many Sámis oppose the use of the name Lapland, as it is considered derogatory and is not the name that Sámis have used. \n\nSápmi (and corresponding terms in other Sami languages) refers to both the Sami land and the Sami people. In fact, the word \"Sámi\" is only the accusative-genitive form of the noun \"Sápmi\"—making the name's (\"Sámi olbmot\") meaning \"people of Sápmi.\" The origin of the word is speculated to be related to the Baltic word \"*žēmē\" that simply means \"land\". Also \"Häme\", the Finnish name for Tavastia, a historical province of Finland, is thought to have the same origin, and the same word is at least speculated to be the origin of \"Suomi\", the Finnish name for Finland.\nSápmi is the name in North Sami, while the Julev Sami name is \"Sábme\" and the South Sami name is \"Saepmie\". In Norwegian and Swedish the term \"Sameland\" is often used.\n\nIn modern Swedish and Norwegian, Sápmi is known as \"Sameland\", but in older Swedish it was known as \"Lappmarken\", \"Lappland\", and Finnmark, respectively. Originally these two names did refer to the entire Sápmi, but subsequently became applied to areas \"exclusively\" inhabited by the Sami. \"Lappland\" (Laponia) became the name of Sweden's northernmost province (\"landskap\") which in 1809 was split into one part that remained Swedish and one part falling under Finland (which became part of the Russian Empire). \"Lappland\" survives as the name of both Sweden's northernmost province and Finland's, also containing part of the old Ostrobothnian province.\n\nIn older Norwegian, Sápmi was known as \"Finnmork\" or \"Finnmark\"; which is now the name of Norway's northernmost province. Both Northern Norway and Murmansk Oblast are sometimes marketed as \"Norwegian Lapland\" and \"Russian Lapland\", respectively.\n\nIn the 17th century, Johannes Schefferus assumed the etymology of the lesser used term \"Lapland\" to be related to the Swedish word for \"running\", \"löpa\" (cognate with English, \"to leap\").\n\nThe largest part of Sápmi lies north of the Arctic Circle. The western portion is an area of fjords, deep valleys, glaciers, and mountains, the highest point being Mount Kebnekaise (2,111 m/6,926 ft), in Swedish Lapland. The part of Sápmi falling on the Swedish side of the border is characterized by great rivers running from the northwest to the southeast. From the Norwegian province of Finnmark and eastwards, the terrain is that of a low plateau that contains many marshes and lakes, the largest of which is Lake Inari in Finnish Lapland. The extreme northeastern section lies within the tundra region, but it does not have permafrost.\n\nIn the 19th century scientific expeditions to Sápmi were undertaken, for instance by Jöns Svanberg.\n\nThe climate is subarctic and vegetation is sparse, except in the densely forested southern portion. The mountainous west coast has significantly milder winters and more precipitation than the large areas east of the mountain chain. North of the Arctic Circle polar night characterize the winter season and midnight sun the summer season—both phenomena are longer the further north you go. Traditionally, the Sami divide the year in \"eight\" seasons instead of four.\n\nReindeer, wolf, bear, and birds are the main forms of animal life, in addition to a myriad of insects in the short summer. Sea and river fisheries abound in the region. Steamers are operated on some of the lakes, and many ports are ice-free throughout the year. All ports along the Norwegian Sea in the west and the Barents Sea in the northeast to Murmansk are ice-free all year. The Gulf of Bothnia usually freezes over in winter. The ocean floor to the north and west of Sápmi has deposits of petroleum and natural gas. Sápmi contains valuable mineral deposits, particularly iron ore in Sweden, copper in Norway, and nickel and apatite in Russia.\n\n\"East Sápmi\" consists of the Kola peninsula and the Lake Inari region, and is home to the eastern Sami languages. While being the most heavily populated part of Sápmi, this is also the region where the indigenous population and their culture is weakest. Corresponds to the regions marked 6 through 9 on the map below.\n\n\"Central Sápmi\" consists of the western part of Finland's Sami Domicile Area, the parts of Norway north of the Saltfjellet mountains and areas on the Swedish side corresponding to this. Central Sápmi is the region where Sami culture is strongest, and home to North Sami—the most widely used Sami language. In the southernmost part of this subregion, however, Sami culture is rather weak—this is where the moribound \"Bithun\" Sami language is used. The areas around the Tysfjord fjord in Norway and the river Lule in Sweden are home to the \"Julev\" Sami language, one of the more widely used Sami languages. These correspond to the regions marked 3 through 5 on the map below.\n\n\"South Sápmi\" consists of the areas south of Saltfjellet and corresponding areas in Sweden, and is home to the southern languages. In this area Sami culture is mostly visible inland and on the coast of Baltic Sea, and the languages are spoken by few. Corresponds to the regions marked 1 and 2 on the map below plus Dalarna County to the south-east of region 1 in Sweden.\n\nThe inner parts of Sápmi are often referred to as Lapland or Lappi, a name deriving from a former name given to the Sami, which is today considered derogatory by many Sami. The name is also found on the Russian side as \"Laplandige\" (the name of a natural reservation) and the Norwegian county of Finnmark is sometimes titled the \"Norwegian Lapland\", especially by the travel industry. \"Lappi-\" appears as a common component of place-names throughout central and southern Finland as well; in many cases, it probably refers to earlier Sami presence, though in some cases the underlying meaning may be merely \"periphery\" or \"outlying district\".\n\nFinally, Sápmi may also be sub-divided into cultural regions according to the states' borders, that obviously affects daily life for people no matter their ethnicity. By Sami, these regions are commonly referred to as \"sides\", for example \"the Norwegian side\" (\"norgga bealli\") or \"the Finnish side\" (\"suoma bealli\").\n\nThe Saamic languages are the region's main minority languages and also its original languages. They belong to the Uralic language family, and are most closely related to the Finnic languages. Many Sami languages are mutually unintelligible, but the languages originally formed a dialect continuum stretching southwest-northeast, so that a message could hypothetically be passed between Sami speakers from one end to the other and be understood by all. Today, however, many of the languages are moribund and thus there are \"gaps\" in the original continuum.\n\nOn the map to the right numbers indicate Sámi Languages (Darkened areas represent municipalities that recognize Sami as an official language.): 1. South (Åarjil) Sámi, 2. Ume (Upme) Sámi, 3. Pite (Bitthun) Sámi, 4. Lule (Julev) Sámi, 5. North (Davvi) Sámi, 6. Skolt Sámi, 7. Inari (Ánár) Sámi, 8. Kildin Sámi, 9. Ter Sámi. Of these languages the Northern one is by far the most vital; whereas Ume, Pite and Ter seem to be dying languages. Kemi Sámi is extinct.\n\nNorth Sami is subdivided into three main dialects: West, East and Coast. The written standard is based on the Western dialect.\n\nThe language spoken by most people in the region is Russian, which is an East Slavic language. It is the dominant language on the Russian side of the border and also spoken by recently immigrated minority groups elsewhere in Sápmi. Earlier, a common pidgin language was spoken on the northern coast of Sápmi that combined elements of Russian, Norwegian, North Sami and Kven. This language was known as Russenorsk. On the Russian side, there are also speakers of the East Slavic Belarusian and Ukrainian languages.\n\nNorwegian and Swedish dominate the largest part of Sápmi, including the entire Southern region and most of the Central region. There also used to be minorities speaking Norwegian on the Kola Peninsula. The Scandinavian languages are to a very large degree mutually intelligible, much more so than South Sami and North Sami. The Norwegian dialects spoken particularly in North and Central Norway Sami areas differ very much from the written bokmål standard. In Central Sápmi the Sámi dialects have taken the Scandinavian language trait of having a more or less constant emphasis on the first syllable of each spoken word. In the inner and northernmost parts of Sweden and Norway, however, people often speak Norwegian and Swedish close to the written standard, though with a heavy Uralic accent.\n\nThe Finnic (i.e. Baltic Finnic) languages are spoken on the Finnish (Finnish), Swedish (Meänkieli—spoken by the Tornedalians) and Norwegian (Kven) sides of the borders. There also used to be minorities speaking Finnish on the Kola Peninsula. The languages are as mutually intelligible as the Scandinavian languages. Other Finnic languages include Karelian, Estonian, Livonian, Veps, Votic and Izhoran. Many are mutually intelligible.\n\nThe approximate number of people living in Sápmi is about 2 million, though it is difficult to give the precise number of inhabitants since certain counties and provinces only include \"parts\" of Sápmi. It is also quite difficult to account for the distribution of ethnic groups as many people have double or multiple ethnic identities—both seeing themselves as members of the majority population \"and\" being part of one or more minority groups.\n\nDifferent criteria are set when calculating the number of Sami, but the number is generally given as somewhere between 80,000 and 100,000. Many live in areas outside Sápmi such as Oulu, Oslo, Stockholm and Helsinki. Some Sami people have migrated to places outside the Sapmi vernacular region, such as in Canada and the United States. Many Sapmi people have settled in the northern parts of Minnesota.\n\nAbout 900,000 people inhabit Murmansk province (oblast'), but parts of this area lie outside Sápmi. About 758,600 of Murmansk's population claim to be exclusively Russian. It should be noted, however, that ethnic Russians also live elsewhere in Sápmi. The Russian side of Sápmi is very ethnically diverse, with particularly big Ukrainian and Belarusian minorities. The Sami are one of the minor minorities in this part of Sápmi.\n\nAbout 850,000 people inhabit the Norwegian regions North Norway (fully within Sápmi) and Trøndelag (mostly within Sápmi). However, many of the regions' inhabitants—particularly those of North Norway—are not exclusively Norwegian. Notable minority groups include the Sami, Finns, and Kvens.\n\nAbout 700,000 people inhabit the Swedish counties Norrbotten, Västerbotten, Västernorrland and Jämtland. Many of the counties' inhabitants are not exclusively Swedish. Notable minority groups include the Sami, Tornedalians, Kvens, and Finns.\n\n13,226 people inhabit the Sami native region of Lapland, Finland. A great portion of these are Sami.\n\nThese two ethnic groups, closely related to each other and also the Finns, mainly live on the Swedish and Norwegian sides of Sápmi, respectively.\n\nNorway, Finland and Sweden all have Sami Parliaments that to varying degrees are involved in governing the region—though mostly they only have authority over the matters of the Sami citizens of the states in which they are situated.\n\nEvery Norwegian citizen registered as a Sami has the right to vote in the elections for the Sami Parliament of Norway. Elections are held every four years by direct vote from 7 constituencies covering all of Norway (6 of which are in Sápmi), and run parallel to the general Norwegian parliamentary elections. This is the Sami Parliament with the most influence over any part of Sápmi, as it is involved in the autonomy established by the Finnmark Act.The parliament is situated in Kárášjohka and its current President is Aili Keskitalo from the Norwegian Sami Association.\n\nThe Sami Parliament of Sweden, situated in Kiruna (Northern Sami: \"Giron\"), is elected by a general vote where all registered Sami citizens of Sweden may attend. The current President is Lars-Anders Baer.\n\nVoting for elections to the Sámi Parliament of Finland is restricted to inhabitants of the Sami Domicile Area. The Parliament is located in Inari (), and its current President is Pekka Aikio.\n\nIn Russia there is no Sami Parliament. There are two Sami organizations that are members of the national umbrella organisation of indigenous peoples, the Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North and represent the Russian Sami in the Sami Council. RAIPON is represented in Russia's Public Chamber by Pavel Sulyandziga. On 14 December 2008 the first Congress of the Russian Sámi took place. The Conference decided to demand the formation of a Russian Sámi Parliament, to be elected by the local Sami. A suggestion to have the Russian Federation pick representatives to the Parliament was voted down with a clear majority. The Congress also chose a Council of Representatives that were to work for the establishment of a Parliament and otherwise represent the Russian Sami. It is headed by Valentina Sovkina.\n\nOn 2 March 2000, the Sami parliaments of Norway and Finland founded the Sami Parliamentary Council, and the Sami Parliament of Sweden joined two years later. Each parliament sends seven representatives, and observers are sent from the Sami organizations of Russia and the Sami Council (see below). The Sami Parliamentary Council discuss cross-border cooperation, hand out the annual \"Gollegiella\" language development award and represent the Sami people abroad.\n\nIn addition to the parliaments and their common council, there is a Saami Council based on Saami organizations. This council also organizes inter-state cooperation between the Saami, and also often represent the Saami in international fora such as the Barents Region. This organization is older than the Parliamentary Council, but not connected to the parliaments except for the fact that some of the NGOs double as party lists in Sami parliament elections.\n\nThe Russian Federation consists of several types of subunits. The Russian side of Sápmi is contained within an \"oblast\" (province). \"Oblasti\" are governed by popularly elected parliaments, and formally headed by governors. The governors are nominated by the President of the Russian Federation, and accepted or discarded by the parliaments. However, should the parliament refuse to accept the President's nominee, the President is entitled to dissolve parliament and call for new \"oblast\" elections.\n\nMurmansk Oblast covers the Kola Peninsula and is home to Murmánska (Northern Sami) or Murmansk (Russian), the largest city north of the Arctic Circle and in Sápmi. It is subdivided into several districts, of which the geographically largest is Lovozersky District. This is also the part of Russia where the Sami population is most numerous and visible. In the west of the province there is a large natural reserve known as \"Laplandiya\". The current governor of Murmansk Province is Yuriy A. Yevdokimov, who has run the province since 1997 and helped found the pro-Putin party \"Jedinstvo\" that after Putin's victory combined with its main opponent to become the \"Yedinaya Rossiya\" Party.\n\nThe counties of Norway are governed by popularly elected assemblies, headed by county mayors. Formally, the counties are headed by county governors, but in practice these have limited influence today.\n\nThe largest of Norway's counties, Finmárku (Northern Sami) or Finnmark (Norwegian), is located in Sápmi and has a special form of autonomy: 95% (about 46,000 km) of the area is owned by the Finnmark Estate. The board of the Estate consists of equally many representatives from the Sami Parliament of Norway and Finnmark's county council. The two institutions appoint leaders of the board alternately. The administrative centre of Finmárku is Čáhcesuolu or Vadsø, located far east in the county. The current county governor is Runar Sjåstad from the Norwegian Labour Party.\n\nRomsa or Troms is situated to the southwest of Finmárku. Its administrative centre is the city after which the county is named, Romsa or Tromsø. Romsa is North Norway's biggest city and Sápmi's biggest city after Murmansk. Current \"fylkesordfører\" is Terje Olsen from the Conservative Party. A similar solution to the Finnmark Estate, Hålogalandsallmenningen, has been proposed for Romsa county and its southern neighbour Nordlánda.\n\nNordland or Nordlánda (not official name) covers a long strip of coast that includes both North Sami, Julev Sami, Bithun Sami and South Sami areas. Its administrative centre is Bådåddjo or Bodø. The current county governor is Mariette Korsrud from the Norwegian Labour Party.\n\nThe southernmost parts of Norwegian Sapmi lie in Nord-Trøndelag and partially in Sør-Trøndelag, and the administrative centres of which are Steinkjer and Trondheim respectively. The latter city is outside Sápmi but well known for being the site of the first international Sami conference in February 1917. The county governors are Gunnar Viken (the Conservative Party) in Nord-Trøndelag and Tore Sandvik (Norwegian Labour Party) in Sør-Trøndelag.\n\n\"Lappland\" is the name of a large northwestern province of Sweden, wholly within Sápmi. The traditional provinces of Sweden are cultural and historical entities; for administrative and political purposes they were replaced by the counties of Sweden (län) in 1634.\n\nFive counties are wholly or partially within Sápmi. \"Län\" are formally governed by the \"landshövding\", who is an envoy of the government and runs the government-appointed \"länsstyrelse\" that coordinates administration with national political goals for the county. Much of county politics is run by the county council or \"landsting\", which is elected by the inhabitants of the county; but the counties' top positions are still determined by those who win the general elections of Sweden.\n\nNorrbotten is more or less covered by Sápmi, although the lower Tornedalen region is often excluded. The administrative centre is Luleå in the Julev Sami area (Norrbotten includes North, Julev and Bithun areas). Current landshövding is Per-Ola Eriksson of the Centre Party.\n\nSápmi covers the interior majority of Västerbotten, which are Upmeje and South Sami regions. The administrative centre is Umeå, and the current landshövding is Chris Heister from the conservative Moderate Party.\n\nVästernorrland is an old part of Sapmi and still is. There is a lot of Sami in the coast of Baltic Sea (Gulf of Bothnia).\n\nJämtland is wholly within Sápmi, and is a South Sami county. The administrative centre is Östersund. Current landshövding is Maggi Kristina Maria Mikaelsson from the socialist Left Party.\n\nSápmi covers the interior majority of Dalarna, which is traditionally a South Sami region.\n\nFinland is subdivided into nineteen regions (\"maakunta\"). The regions are governed by regional councils, which are generally forums of cooperation between the municipalities and not elected by direct popular vote. \"Lapland\" (\"Lappi\") is the name of the northernmost of the regions, which stretches further south than Sápmi. North Sami, Skolt Sami and Aanaar Sami are indigenous to the region.\n\nFour municipalities in the northern part of Finnish Lapland constitute the Sami Domicile Area; \"Sámiid Ruovttoguovlu\", a region which is autonomous on issues regarding Sami culture and language.\n\nThe region has its own football team, the Sápmi football team, which is organized by FA Sápmi. It is a member of ConIFA and the host of 2014 ConIFA World Football Cup. Sápmi football team won the 2006 VIVA World Cup and hosted the 2008 event.\n\nThe Tour de Barents is a cross-country skiing race held in the region.\n\nThe following towns and villages have a significant Sami population or host Sami institutions. Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish or Russian toponyms are in parenthesis.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7469564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7469564", "title": "Tapori (word)", "text": "Tapori (word)\n\nTapori literally translates into vagabond or rowdy in Hindi. Street thugs in Mumbai were perhaps the most notable taporis. Their unique style of speaking Hindi was called tapori language. They also had a unique style of dressing, which they called as tapori style. Tapori culture though resented by many is widely imitated by many as humorous or comical. It has found acceptance in Bollywood films including \"Rangeela\", \"Gol Mal\", and \"Chasme Buddoor\". They are the equivalent of gangstas in Hollywood films. \n\nTheir style of speaking Hindi is a mixture of many languages spoken by people in Mumbai. It has words adapted mainly from Marathi, and some from Gujarati.\n\nTapori is an original Marathi word meaning \"blossomed\", fully fertile or at its peak in growth, which during its evolution/progression (towards the dark side) in the Marathi language started as its application to someone with high youth elements or budding hormones and subsequent behavior of that animal/humans to establish control, create mischief, attract attention of opposite sex and other such indulgences. Bollywood being in Maharashtra (a Marathi speaking state), it inherited that word into its Hindi vocabulary as a \"cool-happening\" style statement; all such similar words from Marathi used to be recognized in Marathi as Tapori language (i.e. words which were considered \"not decent\" to use in regular language and are mostly used by people who are deemed anti-social or with similar stature). All such words in Marathi got imported as-is into Bambaiya Hindi with additions from other local languages.\n\nChanging social conditions in India have led to a shortage of work for educated lower middle-class young men. The rise of this archetype in Indian cinema in the 1990s and 2000s coincides with the real-life social phenomenon.\n\nThe children's network of ATD Fourth World is named Tapori. ATD's founder Joseph Wresinski met a group of children living in Mumbai train stations known as 'Tapori'. Wresinski noticed how these children shared among themselves what food they had. He was so moved that he decided to call ATD's children's network Tapori. \n\n"}
{"id": "27919485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27919485", "title": "Timothy Everest", "text": "Timothy Everest\n\nTimothy Charles Peto Everest (born March 1961) is a Welsh tailor and fashion designer who has, according to \"Vogue\", \"dressed some of the world's most famous people\". Born in Southampton and raised in Haverfordwest, he moved to London in his early twenties to work with innovative Savile Row tailor Tommy Nutter, where he learned the art of bespoke. Everest was one of the leaders of the New Bespoke Movement, which brought designer attitudes to the traditional skills of Savile Row tailoring.\n\nEverest has been running his own tailoring business in the East End of London since 1989. Based at his Spitalfields atelier since 1993, he opened a West End store off Bond Street, near Savile Row, in 2008. As well as collaborating on projects with designers and brands such as Brooks England, DAKS, Kim Jones, Levi's, Rapha and Rocawear, as costume designer Everest has dressed the stars of films including the first two \"\" films, \"Eyes Wide Shut\", \"Atonement\" and \"Mamma Mia!\". He has been associated with the British high street retailer Marks and Spencer since 1999, and has been a contributor to men's magazine \"The Rake\" since 2008. Everest is at the forefront of the \"bespoke casual\" movement.\n\nEverest was born in Southampton but brought up in Haverfordwest; most of his family remain in the area. His parents were restaurateurs. He had aspired to become a racing driver. But, his ambition unfulfilled, he took a job with his uncle when he was 17, working as a sales assistant at Hepworths, Milford Haven; a high street tailor that would form the foundation of the Next retail empire. In the early 1980s, he became interested in the club scene, often driving to London, where he mixed with New Romantics such as Boy George at \"The Blitz\"; a trendy London nightclub run by Steve Strange of the group Visage.\n\nDetermined to become part of the fashion industry, but unable to make a breakthrough, Everest decided to use his knowledge of tailoring to his advantage. He answered an advertisement placed in the \"London Evening Standard\", in 1982, by Tommy Nutter; 'Boy wanted in Savile Row'. He pestered Nutter for weeks, until he was given the job. Nutter's client base included rock stars, celebrities, politicians and businessmen; he famously dressed The Beatles and The Stones. Everest also mixed with future celebrities of the fashion world. John Galliano, who had been studying at the Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design, passed on some design skills to Everest, while on work placement with Nutter. Everest met his future wife Catherine (now an actress and film producer) at this time, while she was also working with Nutter. The couple have two daughters. Everest's time under Nutter, a Savile Row revolutionary in the 1960s, inspired him to experiment with tone and pattern in his own designs. In 1986, after nearly five years as Nutter's apprentice, Everest was persuaded to move on to work for Malcolm Levene. He had become disillusioned with Savile Row, particularly with their lack of appreciation for Nutter's more modern approach. Everest found that working with Levene, a small menswear retailer based away from Savile Row, on Chiltern Street, provided a welcome change. During Everest's first year there, Levene's turnover doubled.\n\nLeaving Levene in the late 1980s to become a freelance stylist in television advertising, MTV and film, Everest began styling bands and pop stars such as George Michael. He recognised a shift in perception of the male fashion industry; men had become more label conscious. This had coincided with the increased awareness of top-end fashion designers, like Hugo Boss and Armani, highlighted by men's lifestyle magazines; such as \"Arena\" and \"The Face\". He said, \"I thought that if we could demystify bespoke tailoring and make it more accessible, as well as really understanding what was going on in ready-to-wear fashion and being directional with it, there was possibly a market there.\" Having decided to create the \"Timothy Everest\" brand as an alternative to 'designer' ready-to-wear, he searched for a suitable location away from \"the stuffiness of Savile Row\". Everest opened his first premises in 1989; in Princelet Street, Spitalfields, just outside the City of London, in the East End. He said, \"We started in one room of a house. We had one rail with four garments on and a telephone, no chairs, no furniture.\" To begin with, business was slow. Moving premises in 1993, he chose a three-storey, early Georgian townhouse (built in 1724), just north of Old Spitalfields Market in nearby Elder Street – the former home of artist Mark Gertler (1891–1939) – converting it to an \"atelier\" over seven weeks. He dressed Tom Cruise for the 1996 film \"\". Cruise liked the suits so much that he kept them, and commissioned Everest to make him some more.\n\nEverest became one of the \"Cool Britannia\" tailoring generation of the mid-1990s, identified by James Sherwood (author of \"Savile Row: The Master Tailors of British Bespoke\") as having begun with the publication of \"Vanity Fair\"'s \"Cool Britania\" issue in 1997. Sensing a change in consumer attitudes, away from the more traditional styling of Savile Row, he sought to revitalise bespoke suiting, which he believed had been in danger of disappearing. With contemporaries Ozwald Boateng and Richard James, he launched the New Bespoke Movement, which brought a fashion designer approach to Savile Row craftsmanship. He launched the brand's first ready-to-wear collection in 1999. His long-standing association with Marks and Spencer began that year. He dressed Tom Cruise again, for his reprised role in the 2000 film \"\", and at the Oscars that year, when he also dressed Robin Williams and Burt Bacharach. By 2000, he had 3,500 bespoke clients. Everest joined DAKS Simpson as design consultant in May 2000. He was appointed to the board as Group Creative Director in 2002, leaving in 2003. One of the lines he designed for DAKS was an affordable suiting range aimed at teenagers, launched in August 2001; called \"DAKS E1\", after the postal district of his atelier.\n\nEverest is at the forefront of the \"bespoke casual\" movement which, as the name suggests, provides individually tailored casual clothing of Savile Row quality, including: casual shirts; smart-casual jackets; T-shirts; and jeans. In collaboration with Levi's in 2004, he designed a tailored-denim suit, sold in Japanese retailer Oki-Ni's stores. Expanding the \"bespoke casual\" concept, he offered a bespoke denim tailoring service dressing celebrities from sports, Hollywood and rock music, such as David Beckham, Kevin Bacon and Ricky Wilson of the Kaiser Chiefs. Everest designed a suit collection in 2004/05 in collaboration with Rocawear, the fashion clothing company founded by American hip hop artists Damon Dash and Jay-Z. The advertising campaign was fronted by Dash's friends Kevin Bacon and Naomi Campbell. He teamed up with British casual and sportswear designer Kim Jones during 2005 and 2006. The collaboration produced tailoring collections for four seasons that were shown on the catwalk at Paris fashion week. For his next collaboration, in 2006 Everest showed a limited collection of menswear with New York hair salon Bumble and bumble, including a fully bespoke denim line, which retailed at around US$1,000. Marketed as a 'destination location', the retail space on the store's 8th floor, in the fashionable Meatpacking District of Manhattan, also featured a barbershop, a café and a teahouse. In autumn 2007, the \"Timothy Everest\" ready-to-wear collection was available in shops for the first time, including Flannels, Liberty and John Lewis. The range included suits, shirts and trousers. He was costume designer for the 2008 film \"Mamma Mia!\", dressing its stars, including Pierce Brosnan and Colin Firth. He opened a West End store in 2008, at Bruton Street, Mayfair, off Bond Street; less than five minutes walk from Savile Row. He has been a creative contributor and Sartorial Advisor to men's magazine \"The Rake\" since 2008.\n\nA keen cyclist, in 2009 Everest collaborated with cyclewear brand Rapha to develop a bespoke suit that could be worn while cycling; what he called \"bespoke active wear\". Priced at £3,500, the three-piece suit was made of blended wool, using nanotechnology to repel water and dirt. It combined the functionality of classic cycling clothing with the elegance of bespoke tailoring. Its features included a high button fastening to keep the jacket closely fitted to the body, a lapel pocket for an MP3 player and pleats at the shoulders and center back to allow extra fabric when the rider was bent over the bicycle. The jacket design was incorporated into Rapha's ready-to-wear collection in 2010. In collaboration with bicycle saddle manufacturer Brooks England during 2010, he developed a cycling jacket; under Brooks' \"John Boultbee\" clothing label. The resulting 'Criterion Mk.1 cycling jacket', which used water and sweat-resistant materials, was shown at the Bread and Butter street and urban fashion fair, Berlin, in January 2011.\n\nEverest was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire in the 2010 New Year Honours for \"services to the fashion industry\". Having receiving the award from Queen Elizabeth at Buckingham Palace on Saint David's Day 2010, with his wife and two daughters watching, he described the award as a \"great honour, not only for me but my business and all who have been involved\". He is quoted as saying that he would like \"to be remembered as someone who made people take British clothing seriously\".\n\nThe \"Timothy Everest\" brand has three levels of tailoring. 'Bespoke' is aimed at young professionals with the means to purchase bespoke tailoring, but not necessarily the desire to visit Savile Row. Each customer is measured for an individual pattern to be hand-cut, from which their chosen cloth is cut and sewn by hand. Although still hand made, 'Made-to-measure' garments use existing 'house' patterns, adapted to the customer's measurements. The 'Ready-to-wear' collection is sold in-house, at Everest's Mayfair branch, and in Japan. Emphasising his Savile Row background, Everest said, \"We are tailors who design, not designers who discovered tailoring\".\n\nUK department store retailer Debenhams' collaboration with designers, launched in 1993 under their \"Designers at Debenhams\" range, was a success. Hoping to recapture some of their lost market share, Marks and Spencer (M&S) asked Everest to review their menswear range. As Creative Consultant, he designed the \"Sartorial\" suiting line for their menswear collection. In October 2000, he designed the \"Autograph\" suiting line. Noting that the M&S range consisted of Italian-style suiting, he aimed to achieve a more 'British' look from the cut, fit and styling and by using different fabrics and colours. He also has responsibility for their \"Luxury\" collection. During M&S advertising campaigns, his designs for the \"Autograph\" range have been modelled by several British celebrities, including David Beckham, Bryan Ferry, Jimmy Carr, Martin Freeman, Bob Mortimer and Take That. In 2007, M&S were selected by The Football Association as 'Official Tailor to the England football team' and Everest designed the team's official suits for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.\n\nEverest has, according to \"Vogue\", dressed \"some of the world's most famous people\". He has clients worldwide and travels regularly for fittings in New York, Los Angeles and Japan. Closer to home, Everest's bespoke atelier in Spitalfields has a diverse client base that includes politicians (including British Prime Ministers past and present), and sports and Hollywood personalities. Of his suit worn to the Oscars, Tom Cruise commented: \"Of course it fits; it's a Timothy Everest\".\n\nHe has been costume designer on several films, including the first two \"\" films, \"Tube Tales\", \"Eyes Wide Shut\", \"Appaloosa\", \"Atonement\", \"The Accidental Husband\" and \"Mamma Mia!\". Among his celebrity clients are: Kevin Bacon; David Beckham; Matthew Broderick; Gordon Brown; Pierce Brosnan; David Cameron; Jarvis Cocker; Jeremy Irons; Jay-Z; Mick Jagger; and James McAvoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "19694995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19694995", "title": "Umbrella Cover Museum", "text": "Umbrella Cover Museum\n\nThe Umbrella Cover Museum in Peaks Island, Maine is a museum that pays tribute to umbrella covers. The museum was created and is curated by Nancy 3. Hoffman, who has collected more than 2000 umbrella covers from 66 countries as of July 2018.\n\nThe mission of the Umbrella Cover Museums states that it is \"dedicated to the appreciation of the mundane in everyday life. It is about finding wonder and beauty in the simplest of things, and about knowing that there is always a story behind the cover.\"\n\nThe idea for the museum came when Hoffman was cleaning out a closet and came across seven umbrella covers. The museum began in Hoffman’s kitchen and was moved to a larger location as the collection grew. The museum’s collection ranges in size from a two-and-a-half-inch Barbie doll cover to a six-foot patio umbrella sleeve. It has hosted special exhibitions including “People and Their Covers” and “New Umbrella Cover Fashions.”\n\nOn 7 July 2012, \"Guinness World Records\" named Hoffman's umbrella cover collection of 730 at the time to be the largest in the world.\n\nThe museum is closed during the winter. Guided tours include Hoffman, who is also a musician, singing \"Let a Smile Be Your Umbrella\" while playing an accordion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1140356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140356", "title": "World Toilet Day", "text": "World Toilet Day\n\nWorld Toilet Day (WTD) is an official United Nations international observance day on 19 November to inspire action to tackle the global sanitation crisis. Worldwide, 4.5 billion people live without \"safely managed sanitation\" and around 892 million people practise open defecation. Sustainable Development Goal 6 aims to achieve sanitation for all and end open defecation. World Toilet Day exists to inform, engage and inspire people to take action toward achieving this goal.\n\nWorld Toilet Day was established by the World Toilet Organization in 2001. Twelve years later, the UN General Assembly declared World Toilet Day an official UN day in 2013.\n\nUN-Water is the official convener of World Toilet Day. UN-Water maintains the official World Toilet Day website and chooses a special theme for each year. In 2018 the theme is nature-based solutions. Themes in previous years included wastewater, \"toilets and jobs\" and \"toilets and nutrition\". World Toilet Day is marked by communications campaigns and other activities. Events are planned by UN entities, international organizations, local civil society organizations and volunteers to raise awareness and inspire action.\n\nToilets are important because access to a safe functioning toilet has a positive impact on public health, human dignity, and personal safety, especially for women. Sanitation systems that do not safely treat excreta allow the spread of disease. Serious soil-transmitted diseases and waterborne diseases such as cholera, diarrhea, typhoid, dysentery and schistosomiasis can result.\n\nIn 2013, UN-Water and the \"Thematic Priority Area (TPA) on Drinking Water and Basic Sanitation\" received the mandate to oversee World Toilet Day each year. This mandate is described in the United Nations Resolution A/67/L.75. \n\nIn consultation with the UN-Water World Toilet Day Task Force, made up of UN-Water member organizations, UN-Water selects the theme based on that year's World Water Development Report and develops content for World Toilet Day communications campaigns.\n\nUN-Water manages the World Toilet Day website which promotes key issues and stories, provides communications and campaigns resources, and announces events and opportunities to participate.\n\nThe overall World Toilet Day campaign mobilizes civil society, think tanks, non-governmental organizations, academics, corporations and the general public to participate in the associated social media and communications campaigns. Ultimately, the aim is to encourage organizations and governments to plan activities and action on sanitation issues to make progress on Sustainable Development Goal 6.\n\nStarting in 2012, World Toilet Day themes were selected for each year and form the basis of the related communications campaigns. Since 2016, the same overall annual theme has been used for both World Toilet Day and World Water Day, based on the World Water Development Report. \n\nIn the lead-up to World Toilet Day, communities worldwide come together for sanitation-themed \"Urgent Runs\". More than 63 events were held in 42 countries. Events included fun runs, awareness walks, toilet cleaning programs, carnivals and even motorbike parades. Organizers unite communities around the world to raise awareness of the global sanitation challenge and engage people with sanitation issues in their local communities.\nCommunity groups, private companies, universities and NGOs plan events all over the world. Countries participating include: Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, China, Congo-Brazzaville, France, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Italy, Kenya, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Senegal, Tanzania, United States and Vietnam.\n\nSome organizations launch toilet-related (or sanitation-related) reports on World Toilet Day. For example:\n\nMembers of the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance (SuSanA) used the momentum around World Toilet Day in 2017 to update Wikipedia articles on WASH-related topics. This contributes to public education about the sanitation crisis.\n\nThe documentary \"Follow the Flush,\" released 19 November 2017, educates people about what happens beneath the streets of New York City after a person flushes a toilet in Manhattan.\n\nPlanned events for World Toilet Day 2018 include diverse activities such as a 'hackathon' in Ghana to promote digital solutions, a seminar hosted by Engineers without Borders in Denmark, a screening and discussion of the Bollywood movie (in English - \"Toilet: A Love Story\") in Canada, and a school drawing competition in India.\n\nIn 2016, the World Toilet Day campaign and related publications reached millions of people through social media, dedicated websites and other channels. Over 100 events in 40 countries were registered on the World Toilet Day website in both 2016 and in 2017. The UN-Water Annual Report states that in 2017 the hashtag #WorldToiletDay had a maximum potential reach of around 750 million people on social media.\n\nOn 19 November 2001, the World Toilet Organization (WTO) was founded by Jack Sim, a philanthropist from Singapore. He subsequently declared 19 November as World Toilet Day.\n\nThe WTO later the UN chose the name \"World Toilet Day\" and not \"World Sanitation Day\" for ease of public messaging. In fact, toilets are only the first stage of sanitation systems. World Toilet Day events and public awareness campaigns increase public awareness of the broader sanitation systems that include wastewater treatment, fecal sludge management, municipal solid waste management, stormwater management, hygiene, and handwashing. Also, the UN Sustainable Development Goals call for more than just toilets. Goal 6 calls for adequate sanitation, which includes the whole system for assuring that waste is safely processed.\n\nThe WTO began pushing for global recognition for World Toilet Day and, in 2007, the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance (SuSanA) began to actively support World Toilet Day, too. Their efforts to raise attention for the sanitation crisis were bolstered in 2010 when the human right to water and sanitation was officially declared a human right by the UN.\n\nIn 2013, a joint initiative between the Government of Singapore and the World Toilet Organization led to Singapore's first UN resolution, named \"Sanitation for All\". The resolution calls for collective action to end the world's sanitation crisis. World Toilet Day was declared an official UN day in 2013. That resolution was adopted by 122 countries at the 67th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) replaced the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2016. On World Toilet Day on 19 November 2015, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged broad action to renew efforts to provide access to adequate sanitation for all. He reminded everyone of the \"Call to Action on Sanitation\" which was launched in 2013, and the aim to end open defecation by 2025. He also said: “By many accounts, sanitation is the most-missed target of the Millennium Development Goals.\"\n\nThe UN Deputy Secretary-General, Jan Eliasson, was honored on World Toilet Day in 2016 in New York for his deep commitment to breaking the sanitation taboo. For example, he had delivered a video message to attendees of a WaterAid and Unilever joint event in the European Parliament on World Toilet Day 2014. In 2016, UN-Water supported “A Toast for Toilets” in New York with the United Nations Mission of Singapore.\n\nWorldwide, 4.5 billion people live without \"safely managed sanitation\". Around 892 million people worldwide practise open defecation. Of those, 678 million live in just seven countries. India has the highest number of people (about 525 million) practising open defecation. Having to defecate in the open is especially difficult for women and girls. Women tend to resort to the cover of darkness to give them more privacy, but then risk being attacked when alone at night.\n\nIt has been estimated that 58% of all cases of diarrhea worldwide in 2015 were caused by unsafe water, poor sanitation and poor hygiene practices, such as inadequate handwashing. This resulted in half a million children under the age of five dying from diarrhea per year. Providing sanitation has been estimated to lower the odds of children suffering diarrhea by 7–17%, and under-five mortality by 5–20%.\n\nThe Human Right to Water and Sanitation was recognized as a human right by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly on 28 July 2010. Lack of access to sanitation (toilets) has an impact on public health, dignity, and safety. The spread of many diseases (e.g. soil-transmitted helminthiasis, diarrhea, schistosomiasis) and stunted growth in children is directly related to people being exposed to human feces because toilets are either not available or not used.\n\nSustainable Development Goal 6 aims to provide sanitation for all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26211954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26211954", "title": "Zoe Pound", "text": "Zoe Pound\n\nZoe Pound is a criminal street gang based in Miami, Florida founded by Haitian immigrants in the Mid 1990s.\n\n\"Zoe\" is the anglicized variant of the word \"Zo\", which is Haitian Creole to mean \"bone,\" whose members were known to be \"hard to the bone.\" When conflicts against Haitians arose, the \"pound\" would be sought out to retaliate, thus the street gang name, \"Zoe Pound\" came to be.\nHaving branched out from Miami in the two decades leading up to 2010, they are known to be involved in drug trafficking and robbery and related violent crimes in support of their drug trafficking activities in Evansville, Indiana.\n\nIn 2004, six Zoe Pound leaders were arrested on racketeering and conspiracy charges in Fort Pierce, Florida after Florida Department of Law Enforcement offices convinced several gang members to give testimony for the prosecution.\n"}
