{"id": "25356868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25356868", "title": ".EDU Film Festival", "text": ".EDU Film Festival\n\nThe .EDU Film Festival is Minnesota's only school-sponsored, statewide, high school film festival. The two-day event puts Minnesota's young filmmakers together with film industry professionals and provides them with an authentic festival experience. The festival features student film screenings, equipment demos; roundtables with film directors, writers, and producers; and meet-and-greets with post secondary institutions that feature strong film/video production programs.\n\nIn 2009, young filmmakers representing 25 schools from around the state of Minnesota submitted 125 short films to the festival. Films are categorized as narrative, documentary, animation, or experimental film and must be student-made and without violence, profanity or drug use.\n\nThe festival takes place in Minneapolis, Minnesota and is housed in several venues such as the Riverview Theater in South Minneapolis, St. Anthony Main Theater on the Mississippi Riverfront in Northeast Minneapolis, and the Parkway Theater also in South Minneapolis.\n\nA long list of notable Minnesota filmmakers support the .EDU Film Festival by serving as panelists during both days of the event. In 2009 panelists included: documentarian Melody Gilbert, documentarian Matt Ehling, film reviewer and novelist Peter Schilling, film critic Colin Covert, film writer Jim Brunzell III, news editor Euan Kerr, filmmaker and animator Tom Schroeder, screenwriter Michael Starrbury, producer/filmmaker Bobby Marsden, production manager Deena Graf, and creative director Jeffrey Bair.\n\nAs the only school-sponsored, statewide, student film festival in the state of Minnesota, The .EDU Film Festival serves an important role in the development of young filmmakers in our state. .EDU aims to provide young filmmakers with an authentic film festival experience, a valuable understanding of the film industry, and an opportunity to screen their movies on “the big screen.”\n\nBy putting students together with Minnesota filmmakers, industry professionals, and post high school educational institutions, the .EDU Film Festival also introduces the young people of Minnesota to the variety of film industry options available right here in our state.\n\nLastly, The .EDU Film Festival provides a time and place for young filmmakers from all over the state to interact with each other, form friendships and partnerships, and to create a professional network of peers.\n\nwww.afoyonyarka.com"}
{"id": "8245918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8245918", "title": "2006 Dalit Bisaya", "text": "2006 Dalit Bisaya\n\nThe 2006 Dalit Bisaya (officially Dalit Bisaya: A Cebu Visayan Cultural Festival) was a series of exhibits, cultural shows, and a symposium, sponsored by the Kapunongang Bisaya sa Manila and hosted by the University of San Carlos (Cebu City, Philippines). It ran from December 1 to 3, 2006, with the activities held in SM Cebu and campuses of the host university. The tagline was \"Panaghiusa Pinaagi sa Kultura\" (Unity through Culture).\n\nVarious groups have thought of holding a Bisaya or Cebuano-Visayan cultural festival in Cebu. In 1999 the Kapunongang Bisaya sa Kadak-ang Manila under Gen. Lisandro Abadia ang Chief Justice Marcelo Fernan discussed a plan for it. Later in 1999 and 2000 another and a larger group led by Atty. Napoleon Rama and Chief Justice Hilario Davide, Jr. made detailed plans for a Visayan concert in Cebu and adopted a plan to form the Kulturang Bisaya Foundation to support its cultural activities.\n\nThe 2006 Dalit Bisaya was orchestrated by a group composed of Jesus Alcordo, Dr. Magdaleno Albarracin, Dr. Jose Abueva, Dr. Francisco Nemenzo, Baltazar Endriga and Yolanda Bacani.\n\n"}
{"id": "25197197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25197197", "title": "2009 Southeastern Conference football officiating controversy", "text": "2009 Southeastern Conference football officiating controversy\n\nThe Southeastern Conference 2009 college football season was particularly controversial. Many coaches have complained about the officiating, and the conference has had to alter the punishments for violations of some of the rules.\n\nOn November 7, 2009, the LSU Tigers played against the Alabama Crimson Tide, and Alabama won the game, with the final score at 24-15. In this game, there was a controversial call dealing with a pass by Alabama quarterback Greg McElroy when there were just under six minutes left in the game and Alabama was ahead by six points, with the score at 21-15; LSU’s Patrick Peterson believed that he had secured the ball before going out of bounds, which would have made it an interception rather than an incomplete pass. However, the ruling on the field was confirmed after an official review, and it remained an incomplete pass. There was no “indisputable video evidence” for the instant replay official to overturn the call.\nUnlike Bobby Petrino, Dan Mullen, Lane Kiffin, and Urban Meyer, neither Alabama head coach Nick Saban nor LSU head coach Les Miles made negative comments about the officiating. Saban acknowledged that the officials work very hard and do their best to get all of the calls right. Miles pointed out that the officials were doing the best that they could. Javier Arenas, one of Alabama’s players, agreed with these coaches and stated that the referees have a very difficult job to do.\n\nThe Tennessee Volunteers played against the Alabama Crimson Tide, who was #1 coming into the game, on October 24, 2009. Tennessee head coach Lane Kiffin believed that Alabama’s Terrence Cody should have been penalized for unsportsmanlike behavior when he took off his helmet and threw it after he blocked a field goal on the last play of the game. This gave Alabama a win, with the final score at 12-10. Kiffin complained about this to the Southeastern Conference, stating that he decided to run the clock down at the end because he was afraid that the officiating would prevent Tennessee from making much progress. After he made that comment, he stated that he was certain that he would receive “one of those letters that really means nothing as Bobby [Petrino] got last week, but Alabama and Florida live on. Michael Slive responded by giving Kiffin a public reprimand, and the Southeastern Conference did not recognize the possible bad call. Slive also stated, “Coach Kiffin is on notice that for any further violation of SEC policies will subject him to additional penalties including suspension”. If Kiffin or another member of the University of Tennessee staff makes any more public comments such as these comments relating to the officiating, then Kiffin will be suspended for at least one game and the University of Tennessee could be fined. Kiffin had already been reprimanded once this year, after he accused Florida Gators head coach Urban Meyer of breaking some rules concerning recruiting. Kiffin and Meyer have had a lot of conflict this season as well, causing Slive to have to talk to both coaches about it. After this new threat of suspension, Kiffin has not commented on the SEC’s recent changes in penalties for public criticism of officials. The SEC explained after the game why Cody and Alabama were not penalized: The foul for removing your helmet is treated as a dead ball foul (even if it occurs while the play is live) and assessed on the next play; since time expired on that play, there was no next play and thus no penalty.\n\nArkansas played at Florida on October 17, 2009. In this game, officials called a personal foul on Malcolm Sheppard, a defensive lineman for Arkansas. However, there was no video evidence for this penalty. In the end, Florida won the game 23-20. After Bobby Petrino, the head coach for the Arkansas Razorbacks, publicly commented on these calls, Michael Slive, the Southeastern Conference Commissioner, gave him a public reprimand.\n\nThe Georgia Bulldogs played against the Florida Gators on October 31, 2009, and were defeated, with the final score at 41-17. After this game, Urban Meyer believed that a flag should have been called on Georgia linebacker Nick Williams for “knocking Tebow to the ground well after he had gotten rid of the football”. Tebow had handed the ball off to Jeff Demps and was watching the play when Williams hit him, before the play was over. In an interview, Meyer stated that he believed that there should have been a flag on that play and acknowledged that that was one of the plays that he sent in for review.\nAfter he stated this, Michael Slive announced that Meyer had violated the code of ethics for the Southeastern Conference and that “SEC bylaw 10.5.4 clearly states that the coaches, players, and support personnel shall refrain from public criticism of officials.” Meyer was fined $30,000. He was the first to be fined under the harsher new penalties. Meyer responded by saying that he respected the league and its commissioner, and that he had not intended to criticize the official after being asked a question about that play. He then apologized for his comments on the subject.\n\nThe game between LSU and Georgia, on October 3, 2009, was the beginning of this controversy. In this game, AJ Green, one of the players for the Georgia Bulldogs, was penalized for “excessive celebration” after a sixteen-yard catch in the end zone, giving Georgia a touchdown. This gave Georgia a 13-12 lead with just over a minute left in the game. This penalty forced Georgia to kick off from its own fifteen-yard line, which helped LSU to win the game. The final score was 20-13. The Southeastern Conference did admit the mistakes in this call, however.\n\nFlorida played at Mississippi State on October 24, 2009. With 8:25 left in the game, Florida’s Dustin Doe intercepted a pass by Mississippi State’s Tyson Lee and then returned it for twenty-three yards, giving Florida a 28-13 lead. When Doe crossed the goal line into the end zone for the touchdown, the ball was knocked out of his hand and recovered by wide receiver Brandon McRae. After review, it remained a touchdown for Florida, although from the replay, it appeared as if the ball “may have come out before Doe crossed the goal line”. If the replay officials had decided that the ball did come out before he crossed the goal line, then Florida’s touchdown could have been taken away and Mississippi State would have gotten the ball at their own 20-yard-line with the score at 22-13, with Florida in the lead.\nAfter the game, Mississippi State’s head coach, Dan Mullen, complained about this officiating, stating that he hoped that the official would be punished severely. The Southeastern Conference replied by pointing out Rule 12-1-2 in the NCAA football rule book:\n\"The instant replay process operates under the fundamental assumption that the ruling on the field is correct. The replay official may reverse a ruling if and only if the video evidence convinces him beyond all doubt that the ruling was incorrect. Without such indisputable video evidence, the replay official must allow the ruling to stand.\nThe SEC refused to make any further comment on the call.\" They gave Coach Mullen a public reprimand and did not acknowledge the possible error in officiating.\n\nFollowing the Arkansas-Florida game, the Southeastern Conference suspended the crew of referees that worked the LSU-Georgia game and the Arkansas-Florida game. Michael Slive commented on the fact that the calls were not to the standard that officiating crews for the SEC are expected to have This was the first time that the SEC has suspended a crew publicly. According to Michael Slive, “because the two calls we had to deal with came from the same crew we felt it was important to do something we don’t normally do, which is to talk publicly about the situations.\" These referees were suspended until November 14, 2009.\n\nAfter three Southeastern Conference coaches publicly criticized officiating and were reprimanded, the conference decided to fine or suspend coaches for future violations of the rule against public criticism of officiating, and Michael Slive will set the fines and determine the suspension length. Whether the comment is made by the head coach or by an assistant coach or other personnel involved in the institution’s athletic program, the head coach will receive the penalty. The decision to make the penalty for violations of this bylaw more severe was unanimous among the SEC’s Athletic Directors, and it had the full support of the twelve Presidents and Chancellors in the SEC.\nAlthough the penalties for violating bylaw 10.5.4 are harsher than in the past, the coaches will still have appropriate methods of addressing concerns of officiating; the conference will “continue to address reviews of officiating calls on specific plays with each institution’s head coach and no public comments will be made concerning these communications”.\n\nAs a result of all the controversial officiating and the public reprimands for the criticisms made by the coaches who may or may not have been the victims of bad officiating, many people came to the conclusion that the Southeastern Conference was trying to help Florida and Alabama win their games. Lane Kiffin intensified this conspiracy theory when he stated that he let the clock run down instead of making another play because he was afraid that the officiating would work against him. He claimed that he was sure that he would get a letter of reprimand after saying these things, while Florida and Alabama continued their winning streaks.\nAfter these statements, however, Michael Slive argued, “there is no conspiracy involved here. I want to put that idea to rest”. He refuted the claim that SEC officiating crews were trying to help Alabama and Florida remain undefeated, adding that, “I think that takes these issues to a place that really doesn’t make sense”. He pointed out that his job is to try to do what was best for the conference, and that that is what he is trying to do. \nThe Southeastern Conference’s coordinator of officials stated that he did not believe that the officiating in the 2009 season was any worse than in other seasons, but that several incidents received a lot more attention because they were more high profile. David Parry, the national coordinator of College Football Officiating, argued that the SEC has some of the best officials and that the officiating is very good; it’s just that the mistakes that have been pointed out this year have greatly affected the game, so these are more memorable mistakes. Slive agreed with the idea that the officiating is no worse than usual when he asserted that he has not received more complaints from SEC coaches this year, but he believes that the comments this season were sharper. \nSlive also pointed out that the officials are human and will make mistakes, but that the league will evaluate the officiating program. He, along with Rogers Redding, who is the coordinator of officials, and others, are going to meet after the season to talk about the officiating mistakes and make sure the officiating is the best it can be. He firmly believes that the Southeastern Conference officials are honest, diligent, and loyal, and that they want the best for the league.\n\n"}
{"id": "49044568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49044568", "title": "2016 CECAFA Cup", "text": "2016 CECAFA Cup\n\nThe 2016 CECAFA Cup was to be the 39th edition of the annual CECAFA Cup, an international football competition consisting of the national teams of member nations of the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA).\nIn September 2016, it was confirmed that Kenya would host the tournament. Originally, it was to be hosted in Sudan.\n\nIn November 2016, Kenya announced they are not ready to host the tournament and CECAFA officials are looking to persuade Sudan to take over as hosts.\n\nIn December 2016, CECAFA announced the 2016 edition of the tournament will be canceled.\n"}
{"id": "9711074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711074", "title": "4th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "4th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 4th World Science Fiction Convention was held August 30-September 1, 1946, at the Park View Manor in Los Angeles, California. Known as \"Pacificon I\", it was the first time the annual event had been held since 1941, due to the Second World War.\n\nThe guests of honor were A. E. Van Vogt and E. Mayne Hull. The convention chairman was Walter J. Daugherty. Attendance was approximately 130 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "20338498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20338498", "title": "Aerial reconnaissance", "text": "Aerial reconnaissance\n\nAerial reconnaissance is reconnaissance for a military or strategic purpose that is conducted using reconnaissance aircraft. This role can fulfil a variety of requirements, including the collection of imagery intelligence, observation of enemy maneuvers and artillery spotting.\n\nAfter the French Revolution, the new rulers became interested in using the balloon to observe enemy manoeuvres and appointed scientist Charles Coutelle to conduct studies using the balloon \"L'Entreprenant\", the first military reconnaissance aircraft. The balloon found its first use in the , where in the Battle of Fleurus they gathered information. Moreover, the presence of the balloon had a demoralizing effect on the Austrian troops which improved the likelihood of victory for the French troops.\nAfter the invention of photography, primitive aerial photographs were made of the ground from manned and unmanned balloons, starting in the 1860s, and from tethered kites from the 1880s onwards. An example was Arthur Batut's kite-borne camera photographs of Labruguière starting from 1889.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Julius Neubronner experimented with pigeon photography.\nThe pigeons carried small cameras with timers.\n\nLudwig Rahrmann in 1891 patented a means of attaching a camera to a large calibre artillery projectile or rocket, and this inspired Alfred Maul to develop his Maul Camera Rockets starting in 1903. Alfred Nobel in 1896 had already built the first rocket carrying a camera, which took photographs of the Swedish landscape during its flights. Maul improved his camera rockets and the Austrian Army even tested them in the Turkish-Bulgarian War in 1912 and 1913, but by then and from that time on camera-carrying aircraft were found to be superior.\n\nThe first use of airplanes in combat missions was by the Italian Air Force during the Italo-Turkish War of 1911-1912. On 23 October 1911, an Italian pilot, Capt. Carlo Piazza, flew over the Turkish lines in Libya to conduct history's first aerial reconnaissance mission, and on 1 November 1911, the first ever aerial bomb was dropped on the Turkish troops in Libya.\n\nThe first reconnaissance flight in Europe took place in Greece, over Thessaly, on October the 5th over the Ottoman army. This was the first day of the Balkan wars, and during the same day a similar mission was flown by German mercenaries in Ottoman service in the Thrace front against the Bulgarians. The Greek and the Ottoman mission flown during the same day are the first military aviation combat missions in a conventional war. A few days later, on 16 October 1912 a Bulgarian Albatros aircraft performed one of Europe's first reconnaissance flight in combat conditions, against the Turkish lines on the Balkan peninsula, during the Balkan Wars of 1912-1913.\n\nThe use of aerial photography rapidly matured during the First World War, as aircraft used for reconnaissance purposes were outfitted with cameras to record enemy movements and defences. At the start of the conflict, the usefulness of aerial photography was not fully appreciated, with reconnaissance being accomplished with map sketching from the air.\n\nFrederick Charles Victor Laws started experiments in aerial photography in 1912 with No. 1 Squadron RAF using the British dirigible \"Beta\". He discovered that vertical photos taken with 60% overlap could be used to create a stereoscopic effect when viewed in a stereoscope, thus creating a perception of depth that could aid in cartography and in intelligence derived from aerial images. The dirigibles were eventually allocated to the Royal Navy, so Laws formed the first aerial reconnaissance unit of fixed-wing aircraft; this became No. 3 Squadron RAF.\n\nGermany was one of the first countries to adopt the use of a camera for aerial reconnaissance, opting for a Görz, in 1913. French Military Aviation began the war with several squadrons of Bleriot observation planes, equipped with cameras for reconnaissance. The French Army developed procedures for getting prints into the hands of field commanders in record time.\nThe Royal Flying Corps recon pilots began to use cameras for recording their observations in 1914 and by the Battle of Neuve Chapelle in 1915 the entire system of German trenches was being photographed. The first purpose-built and practical aerial camera was invented by Captain John Moore-Brabazon in 1915 with the help of the Thornton-Pickard company, greatly enhancing the efficiency of aerial photography. The camera was inserted into the floor of the aircraft and could be triggered by the pilot at intervals.\n\nMoore-Brabazon also pioneered the incorporation of stereoscopic techniques into aerial photography, allowing the height of objects on the landscape to be discerned by comparing photographs taken at different angles. In 1916, the Austro-Hungarian Empire made vertical camera axis aerial photos above Italy for map-making.\n\nBy the end of the war, aerial cameras had dramatically increased in size and focal power and were used increasingly frequently as they proved their pivotal military worth; by 1918 both sides were photographing the entire front twice a day and had taken over half a million photos since the beginning of the conflict.\n\nIn January 1918, General Allenby used five Australian pilots from No. 1 Squadron AFC to photograph a area in Palestine as an aid to correcting and improving maps of the Turkish front. This was a pioneering use of aerial photography as an aid for cartography. Lieutenants Leonard Taplin, Allan Runciman Brown, H. L. Fraser, Edward Patrick Kenny, and L. W. Rogers photographed a block of land stretching from the Turkish front lines deep into their rear areas. Beginning 5 January, they flew with a fighter escort to ward off enemy fighters. Using Royal Aircraft Factory BE.12 and Martinsyde airplanes, they not only overcame enemy air attacks, but also bucked 65 mile-per-hour winds, anti-aircraft fire, and malfunctioning equipment to complete their task circa 19 January 1918.\n\nIn 1928, the RAF developed an electric heating system for the aerial camera. This allowed reconnaissance aircraft to take pictures from very high altitudes without the camera parts freezing. In 1939 Sidney Cotton and Flying Officer Maurice Longbottom of the RAF suggested that airborne reconnaissance may be a task better suited to fast, small aircraft which would use their speed and high service ceiling to avoid detection and interception. Although this may perhaps seem obvious today with modern reconnaissance tasks performed by fast, high flying aircraft, at the time it was radical thinking.\n\nCotton and Longbottom proposed the use of Spitfires with their armament and radios removed and replaced with extra fuel and cameras. This led to the development of the Spitfire PR variants. These planes had a maximum speed of 396 mph at 30,000 feet with their armaments removed, and were used for photo-reconnaissance missions. The aircraft were fitted with five cameras which were heated to ensure good results (while the cockpit was not). Spitfires proved to be extremely successful in their reconnaissance role and many Spitfire variants were built specifically for that purpose. They served initially with what later became No. 1 Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU).\nOther fighters were also adapted for photo-reconnaissance, including the British Mosquito and the American P-38 Lightning and P-51 Mustang. Such craft were painted in PRU Blue or Pink camouflage colours to make them difficult to spot in the air, and often were stripped of weapons or had engines modified for better performance at high altitudes (over 40,000 feet).\n\nThe American F-4, a factory modification of the Lockheed P-38 Lightning, replaced the nose-mounted four machine guns and cannon with four high-quality K-17 cameras. Approximately 120 F-4 and F-4As were hurriedly made available by March 1942, reaching the 8th Photographic Squadron in Australia by April (the first P-38s to see action). The F-4 had an early advantage of long range and high speed combined with ability to fly at high altitude; a potent combination for reconnaissance. In the last half of 1942 Lockheed would produce 96 F-5As, based on the P-38G with all later P-38 photo-reconnaissance variants designated F-5. In its reconnaissance role the Lightning was so effective that over 1,200 F-4 and F-5 variants were delivered by Lockheed, and it was the USAAF's primary photo-reconnaissance type used throughout the war in all combat theatres. The Mustang F-6 arrived later in the war and by spring 1945 became the dominant reconnaissance type flown by the USAAF in Europe. American photo-reconnaissance operations in Europe were based at RAF Mount Farm, with the resulting photographs transferred to Medmenham for interpretation. Approximately 15,000 Fairchild K-20 aerial cameras were manufactured for use in Allied reconnaissance aircraft between 1941 and 1945.\n\nThe RAF's Mosquito excelled in the photo-reconnaissance role; the converted bomber was fitted with three cameras installed in what had been the bomb bay. It had a cruising speed of 255 mph, maximum speed of 362 mph and a maximum altitude of 35,000 feet. The first converted PRU (Photo-Reconnaissance Unit) Mosquito was delivered to RAF Benson in July 1941 by Geoffrey de Havilland himself. The PR Mk XVI and later variants had pressurized cockpits and also pressurized central and inner wing tanks to reduce fuel vaporization at high altitude. The Mosquito was faster than most enemy fighters above 40,000 ft, and could roam almost anywhere. Colonel Roy M. Stanley II, USAF (RET) wrote; \"I consider the Mosquito the best photo reconnaissance aircraft of the war\". The USAAF designation for the photo-reconnaissance Mosquito was F-8.\n\nApart from (for example) the Mosquito, most World War II bombers were not as fast as fighters, although they were effective for aerial reconnaissance due to their long range, inherent stability in flight and capacity to carry large camera payloads. American bombers with top speeds of less than 300 mph used for reconnaissance include the B-24 Liberator (photo-reconnaissance variant designated F-7), B-25 Mitchell (F-10) and B-17 Flying Fortress (F-9). The revolutionary B-29 Superfortress was the world's largest combat-operational bomber when it appeared in 1944, with a top speed of over 350 mph which at that time was outstanding for such a large and heavy aircraft; the B-29 also had a pressurized cabin for high altitude flight. The photographic reconnaissance version of the B-29 was designated F-13 and carried a camera suite of three K-17B, two K-22 and one K-18 with provisions for others; it also retained the standard B-29 defensive armament of a dozen .50 caliber machine guns. An F-13 conducted the first flight by an Allied aircraft over Tokyo since the Doolittle Raid of April 1942.\n\nThe Japanese Army Mitsubishi Ki-46, a twin-engined aircraft designed expressly for the reconnaissance role with defensive armament of 1 light machine gun, entered service in 1941. Codenamed \"Dinah\" this aircraft was fast, elusive and proved difficult for Allied fighters to destroy. More than 1,500 Ki-46s were built and its performance was upgraded later in the war with the Ki-46-III variant. Another purpose-designed reconnaissance aircraft for the Imperial Japanese Navy Air Service was the carrier-based single engine Nakajima C6N \"Saiun\" (\"Iridescent Cloud\"). Codenamed \"Myrt\" by the Allies, the Nakajima C6N first flew in 1943 and was also highly elusive to American aircraft due to its excellent performance and speed of almost 400 mph. As fate would have it on 15 August 1945, a C6N1 was the last aircraft to be shot down in World War II. Japan also developed the high-altitude Tachikawa Ki-74 reconnaissance bomber, which was in a similar class of performance as the Mosquito, but only 16 were built and did not see operational service.\n\nThe Luftwaffe began deploying jet aircraft in combat in 1944, and the twin-jet Arado Ar 234 \"Blitz\" (\"Lightning\") reconnaissance bomber was the world's first operational jet-powered bomber. The Ar 234B-1 was equipped with two Rb 50/30 or Rb 75/30 cameras, and its top speed of 460 mph allowed it to outrun the fastest non-jet Allied fighters of the time. The twin piston-engined Junkers Ju 388 high-altitude bomber was an ultimate evolution of the Ju 88 by way of the Ju 188. The photographic reconnaissance Ju 388L variant had a pressurized cockpit from the Ju 388's original multi-role conception as not only a bomber but also a night fighter and bomber destroyer, due to RLM's perceived threat of the U.S.'s high-altitude B-29 (which ended up not being deployed in Europe). Approximately 50 Ju 388Ls were produced under rapidly deteriorating conditions at the end of the war. As with other high performance weapons introduced by Nazi Germany, too many circumstances in the war's logistics had changed by late 1944 for such aircraft to have any impact.\n\nThe DFS 228 was a rocket-powered high-altitude reconnaissance aircraft under development in the latter part of World War II. It was designed by Felix Kracht at the Deutsche Forschungsanstalt für Segelflug (German Institute for Sailplane Flight) and in concept is an interesting precursor to the post-war American U-2, being essentially a powered long-wingspan glider intended solely for the high-altitude aerial reconnaissance role. Advanced features of the DFS 228 design included a pressurized escape capsule for the pilot. The aircraft never flew under rocket power with only unpowered glider prototypes flown prior to May 1945.\n\nThe collection and interpretation of aerial reconnaissance intelligence became a considerable enterprise during the war. Beginning in 1941, RAF Medmenham was the main interpretation centre for photographic reconnaissance operations in the European and Mediterranean theatres. The \"Central Interpretation Unit\" (CIU) was later amalgamated with the Bomber Command Damage Assessment Section and the Night Photographic Interpretation Section of No 3 Photographic Reconnaissance Unit, RAF Oakington, in 1942.\n\nDuring 1942 and 1943, the CIU gradually expanded and was involved in the planning stages of practically every operation of the war, and in every aspect of intelligence. In 1945, daily intake of material averaged 25,000 negatives and 60,000 prints. Thirty-six million prints were made during the war. By VE-day, the print library, which documented and stored worldwide cover, held 5,000,000 prints from which 40,000 reports had been produced.\n\nAmerican personnel had for some time formed an increasing part of the CIU and on 1 May 1944 this was finally recognised by changing the title of the unit to the \"Allied Central Interpretation Unit\" (ACIU). There were then over 1,700 personnel on the unit's strength. A large number of photographic interpreters were recruited from the Hollywood Film Studios including Xavier Atencio. Two renowned archaeologists also worked there as interpreters: Dorothy Garrod, the first woman to hold an Oxbridge Chair, and Glyn Daniel, who went on to gain popular acclaim as the host of the television game show \"Animal, Vegetable or Mineral?\".\n\nSidney Cotton's aerial photographs were far ahead of their time. Together with other members of his reconnaissance squadron, he pioneered the technique of high-altitude, high-speed photography that was instrumental in revealing the locations of many crucial military and intelligence targets. Cotton also worked on ideas such as a prototype specialist reconnaissance aircraft and further refinements of photographic equipment. At its peak, British reconnaissance flights yielded 50,000 images per day to interpret.\n\nOf particular significance in the success of the work of Medmenham was the use of stereoscopic images, using a between plate overlap of exactly 60%. Despite initial scepticism about the possibility of German rocket development, stereoscopic analysis proved its existence and major operations, including the 1943 offensives against the V-2 rocket development plant at Peenemünde, where made possible by work carried out at Medmenham. Later offensives were also made against potential launch sites at Wizernes and 96 other launch sites in northern France.\n\nParticularly important sites were measured, from the images, using Swiss stereoautograph machines made by Wild (Heerbrugg) and physical models made to facilitate understanding of what was there or what it was for.\n\nIt is claimed that Medmanham's greatest operational success was Operation Crossbow which, from 23 December 1943, destroyed the V-1 infrastructure in northern France. According to R.V. Jones, photographs were used to establish the size and the characteristic launching mechanisms for both the V-1 flying bomb and the V-2 rocket.\n\nImmediately after World War II long range aerial reconnaissance was taken up by adapted jet bombers, such as the English Electric Canberra and its American development the Martin B-57, capable of flying higher or faster than enemy aircraft or defenses. After the Korean War the United States used RB-47 aircraft which at first were converted B-47 jet bombers, but later purposely built as RB-47 reconnaissance aircraft that carried no bombs. Large cameras were mounted in the plane's belly and a truncated bomb bay used for carrying photoflash bombs. Later versions of the RB-47 such as the RB-47H were extensively modified for signals intelligence (ELINT), with additional equipment operator crew stations in the bomb bay; unarmed weather reconnaissance WB-47s with cameras and meteorological instruments also served the USAF during the 1960s.\nThe onset of the Cold War led to development of highly specialized and clandestine strategic reconnaissance aircraft, or spy planes, such as the Lockheed U-2 and its successor the SR-71 Blackbird (both from the United States). Flying these aircraft became an exceptionally demanding task, with crews specially selected and trained due the aircraft's extreme performance characteristics in addition to risk of being captured as spies. The American U-2 shot down in Soviet airspace and capture of its pilot caused political turmoil at the height of the Cold War. \n\nBeginning in the early 1960s, United States aerial and satellite reconnaissance was coordinated by the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO). Risks such as loss or capture of reconnaissance aircraft crewmembers also contributed to U.S. development of the Ryan Model 147 RPV (Remotely Piloted Vehicle) unmanned drone aircraft which were partly funded by the NRO during the 1960s.\n\nThe United States Navy converted its supersonic carrier-based nuclear bomber, the North American A-5 Vigilante, into the highly capable RA-5C Vigilante reconnaissance aircraft in the 1960s. Beginning in the early 1980s the U.S. Navy outfitted and deployed F-14 Tomcat aircraft in one squadron aboard an aircraft carrier with a system called TARPS which provided naval aerial reconnaissance capability until the Tomcat's 2006 retirement.\n\nThe United States has embarked on a hypersonic UAV project called the SR-72 to replace the Blackbird.\n\n\nDue to the low cost of miniature UAVs, this technology brings aerial reconnaissance into the hands of soldiers on the ground. The soldier on the ground can both control the UAV and see its output, yielding great benefit over a disconnected approach. With small systems being man packable, operators are now able to deploy air assets quickly and directly. The low cost and ease of operation of these miniature UAVs has enabled forces such as the Libyan Rebels to use miniature UAVs.\n\nLow cost miniature UAVs demand increasingly miniature imaging payloads. Developments in miniature electronics have fueled the development of increasingly capable surveillance payloads, allowing miniature UAVs to provide high levels of capability in never before seen packages.\n\n\nReconnaissance pods can be carried by fighter-bomber aircraft. Examples include the British DJRP; Chinese KZ900; UK RAPTOR; and the US Navy's F-14 Tomcat TARPS. Some aircraft made for non-military applications also have reconnaissance pods, i.e. the Qinetiq Mercator\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5108860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5108860", "title": "Anointing of Jesus", "text": "Anointing of Jesus\n\nThe anointing of Jesus’s feet are events recorded in the four gospels. The account in Matthew 26, Mark 14, and John 12 has as its location the city of Bethany in the south and involves Mary the sister of Martha and Lazarus. The event in Luke features an unknown sinful woman, and is in the northern region, as Luke 7 indicates Jesus was ministering in the northern regions of Nain and Capernaum. The honorific anointing with perfume is an action frequently mentioned in other literature from the time; however, using long hair to dry Jesus's feet, as in John and Luke, is not recorded elsewhere, and should be regarded as an exceptional gesture. Considerable debate has discussed the identity of the woman, the location, timing, and the message.\n\nThe event (or events – see discussion below) is reported in Matthew 26, Mark 14, Luke 7, and John 12. Matthew and Mark are very similar:\nWhile Jesus was in Bethany in the home of Simon the Leper, 7 a woman came to him with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, which she poured on his head as he was reclining at the table. When the disciples saw this, they were indignant. \"Why this waste?\" they asked. 9 \"This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor.\" Aware of this, Jesus said to them, \"Why are you bothering this woman? She has done a beautiful thing to me. 11 The poor you will always have with you, but you will not always have me. When she poured this perfume on my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. Truly I tell you, wherever this gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her.\"\nWhile he was in Bethany, reclining at the table in the home of Simon the Leper, a woman came with an alabaster jar of very expensive perfume, made of pure nard. She broke the jar and poured the perfume on his head. Some of those present were saying indignantly to one another, \"Why this waste of perfume? It could have been sold for more than a year's wages and the money given to the poor.\" And they rebuked her harshly. \"Leave her alone,\" said Jesus. \"Why are you bothering her? She has done a beautiful thing to me. The poor you will always have with you, and you can help them any time you want. But you will not always have me. 8 She did what she could. She poured perfume on my body beforehand to prepare for my burial. Truly I tell you, wherever the gospel is preached throughout the world, what she has done will also be told, in memory of her.\"\nWhen one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him, he went to the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. A woman in that town who lived a sinful life learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house, so she came there with an alabaster jar of perfume. As she stood behind him at his feet weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them and poured perfume on them. When the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, \"If this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is—that she is a sinner.\" Jesus answered him, \"Simon, I have something to tell you.\" \"Tell me, teacher,\" he said. \"Two people owed money to a certain moneylender. One owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty. Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he forgave the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more?\" Simon replied, \"I suppose the one who had the bigger debt forgiven.\" \"You have judged correctly,\" Jesus said. Then he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, \"Do you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water for my feet, but she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You did not give me a kiss, but this woman, from the time I entered, has not stopped kissing my feet. You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet. Therefore, I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven—as her great love has shown. But whoever has been forgiven little loves little.\" Then Jesus said to her, \"Your sins are forgiven.\" The other guests began to say among themselves, \"Who is this who even forgives sins?\" Jesus said to the woman, \"Your faith has saved you; go in peace.\"\nSix days before the Passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. Here a dinner was given in Jesus' honor. Martha served, while Lazarus was among those reclining at the table with him. Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume; she poured it on Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected, \"Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? It was worth a year's wages.\" He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. \"Leave her alone,\" Jesus replied. \"It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have me.\"\n\nThe anointing of Jesus is a subject of considerable debate.\n\nSome hold that the anointing is actually two separate events, one occurring at the beginning of Jesus' ministry (in which he offered forgiveness to a repentant woman) and the other in which he is anointed in preparation for his burial. Luke's gospel speaks of Jesus' feet being anointed by a woman who had been sinful all her life and who was crying; and when her tears started landing on the feet of Jesus, she wiped his feet with her hair. Also unique to Luke's version is the inclusion of the Parable of the Two Debtors in the middle of the event. An argument can be made that this story could not have occurred only a few days before the crucifixion, due to the numerous events that followed in Luke's gospel. John 12:1-8 names her Mary, and the text assumes her to be Mary, a sister to Lazarus, as it also identifies her sister Martha. The iconography of the woman's act has traditionally been associated with Mary Magdalene, but there is no biblical text identifying her as such (she is mentioned by name for the first time, immediately following this episode, at the beginning of Luke chapter 8). According to the Gospel of Mark 14:3, the perfume in his account was the purest of Spikenard.\n\nAnother debate is over the implications of \"the poor you always have with you\"; some criticized this response as lax morality, others have responded that, due to his impending crucifixion, Jesus is simply explaining that what was done was not a choice between two moral acts, but a necessity, and would no more be criticized in Jesus' day as a modern man purchasing a coffin for a loved one, even though there are poor that could be fed instead. In the autobiographical \"Palm Sunday\", author Kurt Vonnegut reports being invited to preach on Palm Sunday in 1980, and chooses for his text the Gospel of John's version of the anointing. Vonnegut did so because he had \"seen so much un-Christian impatience with the poor encouraged by the quotation\"; he questioned the translation, saying that it lacked the mercifulness of the Sermon on the Mount, and took the opportunity to offer his own translation:\n\nMark and Matthew say that this occurred while Jesus was in Bethany relaxing at the home of Simon the Leper, a man whose significance is not explained any further by surviving texts of Mark or Matthew. Some assume that the accounts in the four gospels are speaking of the same event and would identify the host as Simon the Pharisee, as mentioned in Luke's account. However, this identification to come under considerable debate given the nearness in time to Jesus' crucifixion, and the fact that Simon the host is called a leper elsewhere. Luke's gospel states that Jesus had been invited to dinner, though the location is not specified. The Gospel of John identifies the location of the anointing prior to the crucifixion as Bethany, the city where Lazarus and his two sisters lived, but does not specify the precise location. The Roman Catholic Church follows the Synoptic Gospels in the location of the event. John and Luke also differ from Matthew and Mark by relating that the anointing is to the feet rather than the head. This, some argue, points to the idea that Luke is speaking of an entirely different event.\n\nThe \"Scholars Version\" note to Mark 14:3–9 states: \"The disciples miss the point, which Jesus makes clear: the woman has signaled his impending death and burial. It must be unintentional irony when Mark has Jesus predict that this story will always be \"told in memory\" of a woman whose very name escapes him.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40748012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40748012", "title": "Battle of Bagrevand", "text": "Battle of Bagrevand\n\nThe Battle of Bagrevand was fought on 25 April 775, in the plains of Bagrevand, between the forces of the Armenian princes who had rebelled against the Abbasid Caliphate and the caliphal army. The battle resulted in a crushing Abbasid victory, with the death of the main Armenian leaders. The Mamikonian family's power in particular was almost extinguished. The battle signalled the beginning of large-scale Armenian migration into the Byzantine Empire.\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Abbasid Caliphate, Caliph al-Mansur (reigned 754–775) abolished the subsidies paid to the various Armenian princes (\"nakharar\") and in addition imposed heavy tax duties on them. Coupled with instances of religious persecution against the majority Christian Armenian population, these measures prompted the outbreak of a major anti-Abbasid revolt in 774. The revolt was led by Artavazd Mamikonian, but gathered the direct or tacit support of most \"nakharar\" families, most notably the hitherto pro-Arab Bagratuni, while the Artsruni and Siwni families remained neutral. The rebellion spread through Armenia, including attacks against Arab tax-collectors, and the local Arab governor, al-Hasan ibn Qahtaba, was unable to contain it. The Caliph sent 30,000 Khurasanis under Amir ibn Isma'il into the province, and at the Battle of Bagrevand on 25 April 775, the \"nakharar\" suffered a decisive defeat, losing their leaders, Smbat VII Bagratuni and Mushegh VI Mamikonian. After the battle, the revolt was brutally suppressed by the Abbasids.\n\nAs the historian Mark Whittow writes, the battle was a \"watershed in Transcaucasian politics\". The defeat of the Armenian revolt eliminated the power of several of the \"nakharar\" houses, most notably the Mamikonian, Gnuni, Amatuni, Rshtuni, Saharuni and Kamsarakan families, which survived \"either as dependants of other families, or as exiles in Byzantium\" (Whittow). On the other hand, the Artsruni, who switched over to the Caliphate in time, profited from the power vacuum to rise to power in Vaspurakan, while the Bagratuni, after retreating for a while to their mountain strongholds, managed to reclaim a dominant position in the country during the 9th century.\n\nThe Abbasids followed their re-imposition of control over Armenia by a similar purge of the native Christian nobility in neighbouring Iberia in the 780s, as well as by a new settlement policy which saw increasing numbers of Arab Muslims settled in the Transcaucasus, with the effect that by the turn of the 9th century, the Arab element predominated in the towns and lowlands. In the next century, Caucasian Albania was effectively Islamicized, while Iberia and much of Armenia came under the control of a series of Arab emirates.\n\n"}
{"id": "32891666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32891666", "title": "Casey Jones—the Union Scab", "text": "Casey Jones—the Union Scab\n\n\"Casey Jones—the Union Scab\" is a song, written by labor figure Joe Hill in San Pedro, California, shortly after the first day of a nationwide walkout of 40,000 railway employees in the Illinois Central shopmen's strike of 1911. It is a parody of the song \"The Ballad of Casey Jones\" and is sung to its tune.\n\nThe Industrial Workers of the World (commonly known as the Wobblies) are an industrial union. Many of the railway workers were organized into the railway brotherhoods, which were craft unions.\n\nThe song was published in the \"Little Red Songbook\" in 1912. \nThe song was included in a 2006 album of American folk songs \"Classic Labor Songs from Smithsonian Folkways\" released by the Smithsonian Institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "43965682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43965682", "title": "Chaambi Operations", "text": "Chaambi Operations\n\nThe Chaambi Operations or Battle of Chaambi is part of the insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present). In December 2012, the Tunisian Army launched an offensive against the Salafist jihadists in Jebel ech Chambi near Kasserine.\n\nOn June 6, a Tunisian vehicle hit a roadside bomb in Doghra in Jebel Chambi: Two soldiers were killed and two others wounded. According to the Tunisian government, jihadists belonging to militias Okba ibn Nafaâ, an al-Qaida cell in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM) and Ansar al-Sharia. The latter group, led by Seifallah Ben Hassine, known as \"Abu Iyadh\" however say they have no connection with the clashes delivered Jebel Chambi.\n\nOn 18 July, in the wilaya of El Oued, the Algerian army intercepted a pickup truck loaded with weapons from Libya to Jebel Chambi; two of its occupants were killed.\n\nJuly 29, around 6 pm, a group of Tunisian soldiers were ambushed in Sabaa Diar, in Jebel Chambi. Their truck was strafed by some thirty rebels Salafists, several soldiers being disarmed and executed. Eight soldiers were killed and three others injured, one fatally, several bodies being slaughtered. According to Mohamed Ali Aroui, spokesman for the Interior Ministry, Gadhgadhi Kamel, suspected of being the murderer of Chokri Belaid man, took part in the slaughters. The same day at Talla an army vehicle hit a mine, wounding three men.\n\nOn the evening of August 1, the Tunisian army launched an offensive on the Djebel Chambi with ground forces and air force, saying combat katiba Okba Ibn Nafaâ. The clashes come during the night of August 3 to 4 would have a dozen rebels dead. On August 4, a Tunisian military vehicle hit a mine: a soldier was killed and seven wounded. One of the soldiers died of his wounds the following day, bringing to fourteen the number of military and Tunisian national guard officers killed in Jebel Chambi since December 2012.\n\nOn August 5, three insurgents fleeing the mountain killed by Algerian forces deployed to the border in the region of Bir el-Ater, in Tébessa.\n\nOn 6 August, the interior minister, Lotfi Ben Jeddou says that 140 Salafists took part in the fighting in the Jebel Chambi and that 46 of them were captured.\n\nFour jihadists were killed on the evening of August 7.\n\nOn August 11, four jihadists were killed and four others captured.\n\nOn August 27, the Tunisian government, which includes Ennahda, the Congress for the Republic, Ettakatol accuses Ansar al-Sharia to be linked to al-Qaeda and of being responsible for political assassinations and attacks in the Jebel Chambi. Ansar al-Sharia then classified by the government as a terrorist organization.\n\nOn 1 September, the spokesman of the Ministry of Interior, Mohamed Ali Aroui says that Salafist rebels entrenched in the Jebel are no more than thirty. According to two prisoners interviewed, fifteen of these fighters are Algerians, the others would Malians, Mauritanians and Tunisians.\n\nOn September 2, a statement to Ennahdha, AQIM said he had no connection with the fighting in Jebel Chambi, and says he respects Ayman al-Zawahiri an instruction not to target governments born of the Arab revolutions.\n\nOn September 25, Minister Ben Jeddou says fourteen Islamist Ansar al-Sharia and AQIM, which Kamel Gadhgadhi, are still active in Jebel Chambi and fourteen others in Samama. He argues that these insurgents are known by police and twelve of them are Algerians. He also believes that Seifallah Ben Hassine has probably fled to Libya.\n\nIn early October, according to an Algerian jihadist prisoner captured in Illizi, 17 men were sent as reinforcements from Libya on the orders of Djamel Okasha.\n\nOn the night of October 11 to 12, a unit of the anti-terrorism brigade storms on a house in Kasserine after learning that Mourad Gharsalli descended the mountain to visit his family. However, the attack fails and, after an hour of shooting that partially destroyed the house, jihadists manage to escape. The military did grab a phone and some ammunition.\n\nIn November, the Tunisian army carries out several bombings in Jebel Chambi, including the November 12 to 13, 20 to 21, and the 26 December 2, a mine exploded north of Jebel Chambi: a Special Forces officer Captain Youssef Dridi, was killed and another injured.\n\nOn 21 and 22 December, eight people suspected of being connected with the jihadists are arrested in Chambi. After identifying suspicious movements, the Tunisian army bombed the mountain on the night of December 27 to 28, then from December 31 to January 1, and January 4.\n\nFebruary 1, 2014, three persons including a \"terrorist\" and two \"accomplices\" accused of funding insurgents Salafists were arrested by the Tunisian National Guards (TNG) in Jebel Chambi. Further north, five others are captured in Jendouba; This is according to the Ministry of Interior they are members of a cell involved in the supply of jihadists in Jebel Chaambi.\n\nThe army carried out new bombing on 4 and 6 February. 7, a Moroccan jihadist described as \"hungry\" and in \"a state of extreme exhaustion\", was arrested near the Algerian border; he tried to flee the Djebel Chambi where climatic conditions are harsh due to heavy snowfall.\n\nApril 16, 2014, the Tunisian army sent reinforcements to the Djebel Chambi, which is declared a \"closed military zone\". All access to the mountain were sealed off by the Tunisian and Algerian armies. 10,000 soldiers were involved in the operation.\n\nOn the morning of April 18, after an exchange of fire between Tunisian soldiers and insurgents, a vehicle of the Tunisian army hit a mine near Henchir Talla, inside the closed military zone. The driver was killed and three other soldiers were wounded. Between 18 and 22, two jihadists were killed, and the charred body of a third fighter, probably killed by bombing the previous day, is also found. April 23, clashes are taking place outside of the closed military zone, in an industrial area on the road to Kasserine, in Kef. On the morning of April 24, F-5 aircraft bomb the mountain, with support of helicopters.\n\nOn May 1, the Tunisian army regains control of Jebel Chambi without encountering resistance, Tunisian flags were planted on four peaks of the mountain. The jihadists are believed to have fallen back on the Jebel Salloum which is bombed by aircraft and artillery. According to security sources the newspaper Le Maghreb, 70% of the total area of the mountain is under control of the Tunisian army.\n\nOn May 5, security units Kasserine stop eight people suspected of providing logistical support to insurgents in Chaambi. According to the Interior Ministry, they provided food, phone chips, cameras, money, ammunition, and gave them information about the movements of the security forces. The same day, in the military zone closed Chaambi, Tunisian soldiers opened fire on two men who refused to obey the summons of the soldiers; one of them managed to escape, the other was killed. According to the Ministry of Defence, the last person named Ben Ali Mabrouk Yahyaoui was wanted, military equipment and a large amount of ammunition was found on site. The second man was finally caught while trying to hide in a house. This version of the story is disputed by other sources who claim that Yahyaoui was killed while he was alone, that he was not wanted for business flights, and had no connection with jihadists.\n\nOn May 6, Tunisian President Moncef Marzouki visit Jebel Chambi and promises amnesty to insurgents who are willing to render,in condition they have not committed any crimes, \"We decided at the last Security Council that there will have an amnesty and reconciliation for those who do not have their hands soiled with blood. Those still have a place in our people. \"On May 7, Atef Boughatas, Governor of Kasserine, said that the reserve of Djebel Chambi has been \"cleansed\" of all its mines. On May 8, the Tunisian army had taken 80% of the Djebel Chambi.\n\nOn May 16, the trail to the reserve Chaambi is reopened. On 23 May, the explosion of a mine passage of a vehicle of the Tunisian army caused the death of two soldiers, four injured.\n\nOn 17 June, the prime minister Mehdi Jomaa says that security forces and the army \"took control of Mount Châambi, which now is no longer a safe haven for terrorists, despite the ability of withdrawal of these reliefs to neighboring and their attempts to carry out further terrorist operations.\"\n\nJuly 16 to 19 h 40, two monitoring stations of the army attacked simultaneously by two groups of jihadists forming total forty to sixty men who opened fire with machine guns and rocket launchers RPG-7: Fifteen soldiers were killed and twenty injured according to the Ministry of Defence; the press service of the ministry said that \"this is the heaviest record to be recorded by the army since independence in 1956.\" An attacker also killed in the clash. The attack was claimed by katiba Ibn Okba Nafaâ linked to AQIM This katiba, strong 70 to 100 fighters, divided into small groups of 25 to 30 men is controlled by Lokman Abu Sakhr.\n\nOn 3 August, Islamist fighters attacked a military base in Sbeïtla, east Chambi: A soldier was killed and a civilian wounded.\n\nOn September 16, two jihadists were killed in a battle against soldiers and Tunisian National Guards. Soon after, katiba Okba Ibn Nafaâ leaves AQIM announced allegiance to the Islamic State.\n\nOn 28 March, The Elite force of the National Guard Commandos USGN has successfully killed 9 of katiba Okba Ibn Nafaâ including its Operational Leader Khaled Hammadi Chaeib (Luqman Abu Sakhr) and 5 more leaders of Algerian Nationality in an Ambush near Sidi Aïch, Gafsa. \nInvestigation has also proved that one of the 9 terrorists is named Muawiyah Abu Hamza of Algerian nationality, Al-Qaeda leader of the \"southern part\", and the supervisor of \"Luqman Abu Sakhr\", Muawiyah is considered one of the biggest leaders of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.\n\nOn 22 April, GFS (Tunisian Army's Special Force) and various special army units launched a military operation called The Invasion of Kasserine's Mountains, the battle continued for 4 days between the two belligerents resulting in the death of confirmed 10 jihadists (likely more) including its new appointed Operational Leader \"Abu Sofian Assufi\", 3 GFS soldiers died in the same battle.\n\nOn 5 June, Two camps of terrorists were discovered in Mount Salloum after a sweeping operation conducted by the National Army.\nThe Army has killed and injured 4 terrorists in the same day, after terrorists were spotted near the area of operations. \nLieutenant-Colonel Belhassan Oueslati said terrorist groups holed up in these camps were forced to leave them as a result of military attacks conducted by the Army.\nDuring the operation, national army units seized weapons and ammunition, grenades, binoculars, night vision goggles, computer equipment, photovoltaic panels, medicines, mobile phones, SIM cards, two national identity cards, a passport and food.\n\nOn 15 June, Tunisian intelligence have received intel about Two terrorists descending from Mount Salloum towards the small town of Bir El Hafey in Sidi Bouzid then Souk El Jedid, coordination has been established with the security units in the region in order to set up an ambush, once intercepting the two terrorists riding a motorcycle, they initiated opening fire and throwing a grenade directly towards the policemen, which resulted in the death of the \nCommander of the intervention regiment in Sidi Bouzid Captain \"Monaam Gharsalli\", the head of the Public police station in Hichria(town) First Lieutenant \"Romdhane Khadhraoui\", and two policemen injured by shrapnel, they were Resuscitated and sent to the Hospital.\nhowever, clashes continued afterwards, injuring one of the terrorists, they have decided to kidnap 8 citizens then steal a vehicle and went to the city of Sidi Ali Ben Aoun, after arriving in the city, they fired at a national guard member, First Caporal \"Aymen Massaoudi\", in front of the national guard station, he died later in the hospital.\nthe Terrorists were trying to neutralize all the agents inside the national guard station, where they were surrounded by National Guard Special Units in coordination with the Military and Police units, the Operation resulted in neutralizing one terrorist named \"Khaled Ben Kamel Al-Dhibi\", and capturing the second terrorist named \"Mahmoud Ghnimi\" injured badly, which was wanted by the Anti Terrorism units.\n2 AK-47s, 4 Ammunition Mags and a cell phone was seized after the Operation.\n\nOn 10 July, The Elite force of the National Guard USGN, the GFS (Tunisian Army's Special Forces) and other police units and following intel about terrorist activity in Mount Aarbata, Gafsa south of Kasserine, the combined forces have managed to kill 5 terrorists including a Leader named Mourad Gharsalli.\n4 AK-47s, One Steyr AUG rifle, One Grenade and One pistol were seized during the Operation which is still ongoing.\n\nOn 9 August, USGN and Kasserine's National Guard's Commandos Unit UCGN has managed to eliminate \"Haroun Al-Djazayiri\" (Haroun the Algerian) rated as a dangerous terrorist by the Tunisian Authorities, in Mount Sammema east of Chaambi after ambushing the target.\n1 AK-47, 1 Grenade, 1 Night Vision Goggles and a number of bullets was seized after the Operation.\n\nOn 23 August, One customs officer was killed and three other wounded in a terrorist attack that targeted, Sunday evening, a customs patrol in Jebel Esnak, Bouchebka (Kasserine).\nTerrorists took 3 Steyr AUG, 1 Pistol and an amount of money and number of bullets from the guards.\n\nOn 30 March, a Tunisian border guard was injured in an ambush by around 15 militants near Fériana in Kasserine region.\n\nOn 29 August, three Tunisian soldiers were killed and seven more wounded after Islamic militants ambushed and fired rifles and rocket-propelled grenades at them near Mount Sammama.\n\nOn 17 February, Tunisian soldiers shot dead 2 suspected jihadists in Kasserine Region, said the defence ministry. They also detained a suspected person and seized three firearms and ammunition during the operation.\n\nOn 28 May, Tunisian security forces killed a leading member of IS, known as Houssem Tlithi (born 1997) near the Algerian border. A day later, three people were arrested as part of an operation, according to the interior ministry.\n\nOn 24 September, two people were killed in a truck by a landmine blast in the mountainous central regions of Tunisia.\n\nOn 3 October, A IED detonation struck an armored vehicle killing 2 soldiers and injuring 5 at Mount Chaambi of Tunisia, an Al-Qaeda wing in Tunisia claimed responsibility for the attack.\n"}
{"id": "1211582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1211582", "title": "Cheung Chau Bun Festival", "text": "Cheung Chau Bun Festival\n\nCheung Chau Bun Festival () or Cheung Chau Da Jiu Festival () is a traditional Chinese festival on the island of Cheung Chau in Hong Kong. Held annually, and with therefore the most public exposure, it is by far the most famous of such Da Jiu festivals, with \"Jiu\" (醮) being a Taoist sacrificial ceremony.\nSuch events are held by mostly rural communities in Hong Kong, either annually or at a set interval of years ranging all the way up to once every 60 years (i.e. the same year in the Chinese astrological calendar). Other places that may share the folk custom include Taiwan, Sichuan, Fujian and Guangdong.\nCheung Chau's Bun Festival, which draws tens of thousands of local and overseas tourists every year, is staged to mark the Eighth day of the Fourth Month, in the Chinese calendar (this is usually in early May). It coincides with the local celebration of Buddha's Birthday.\n\nThe Cheung Chau Bun Festival began as a fun and exciting ritual for fishing communities to pray for safety from pirates. Today this religious origin has largely been forgotten, and the festival has mainly a become a showcase of traditional Chinese culture.\n\nKwok Kam Kee, the official bun supplier for the festival which was opened 40 years ago, makes over 60,000 buns for the festival.\n\nOne story of the origin of the festival is that in the 18th century, the island of Cheung Chau was devastated by a plague and infiltrated by pirates until local fishermen brought an image of the god Pak Tai to the island. Paraded through the village lanes, the deity drove away evil spirits. Villagers also disguised themselves as different deities and walked around the island to drive away the evil spirits.\n\nEvery year on the 8th day of the fourth month of the lunar calendar, the islanders organise a weeklong thanksgiving, the Cheung Chau Bun Festival usually in April or May. The festival lasts for seven days. On three of these days the entire island goes vegetarian; most of the island's famous seafood restaurants adhere to this tradition. The local McDonald's also takes meat off the menu and instead sells veggie burgers made of mushrooms.\n\nIn addition to traditional lion dances and dragon dances, children dressed as legendary and modern heroes are suspended above the crowd on the tips of swords and paper fans (飄色). They form the parade-in-the-air and are all secured within steel frames, though they appear to glide through the air. Parents consider it a great honour for their offspring to be part of the parade.\n\nThis fascinating procession is accompanied by the bedlam of musicians loudly beating gongs and drums to scare away evil spirits. It is led by a spectacular image of Pak Tai, the God of Water and Spirit of the North, to whom the island's Temple of the Jade Vacuity is dedicated.\n\nHere are some divinities Cheung Chau people celebrate in the festival:\n\nSince Cheung Chau is traditionally an island of fisherfolk, Pak Tai is its most revered divinity, since it is believed he has the power to confer smooth sailing for the fishing boats as well as providing good catches for their crews. Pious believers recognise him as \"Pei Fang Chen Wu Hsuan T'ien Shang Ti\" (True Soldier and Superior Divinity of the Deep Heaven of the North).\n\nThe second of the significant deities involved in the pageant is the much-revered Tin Hau, Goddess of the Seas and protector of all fishermen and boat people. Celebrated for providing warnings of imminent storms and saving countless lives from wreckage, she is in many ways Pak Tai's competitor for the fondness of the fisherfolk.\n\nTwo more gods complete the celestial divinities taking part in the parade: Kuan Yin, the Goddess of Mercy with her tranquil and ever compassionate smile; and Hung Hsing, the terrifying God of the South with his menacing head-dress, unkind face, bushy black beard, and stave at the ready to chastise all enemies.\n\nThe centrepiece of the festival is at Pak Tai Temple where the \"Bun Mountains\" or \"Bun Towers\"(包山) stand. These are three giant 60-feet bamboo towers covered with buns. It is these bun-covered towers that give the festival its name. It originates from the custom in Southern Fujian and Chaozhou known as \"qianggu\" ()， where people snatch food that has been offered to the lonely spirits. Historically, young men would race up the tower to get hold of the buns; the higher the bun, the better fortune it was supposed to bring to the holder's family; the race was known as \"Bun-snatching\" (搶包山). However, during a race in 1978 one of the towers collapsed, injuring more than 100 people. In subsequent years, three designated climbers (one climber to each tower) raced up their respective towers and having cleared the top buns proceeded to strip the towers of their buns as they descended.\n\nThe three \"Bun Mountains\" are still placed in the area in front of Pak Tai Temple, and are constructed using the traditional fixation method — bamboo scaffolding.\n\nIn 2005, a single tower climbing event in the adjacent sports ground was revived as a race—with extra safety precautions including proper mountain-climbing tools as well as tutorials for participants (which now include women). A teamwork version of the event was added in 2006.The revised version of \"Bun-snatching\" as well as the traditional three \"Bun Mountains\" still have their buns removed from the towers at midnight of the Festival.\n\nIn February 2007, it was further announced that the buns on the single-tower construct will henceforth be made of plastic. During the festival, Chinese operas, lion dances, and religious services also take place on the island.\n\nKwok Ka-Ming (traditional Chinese: 郭嘉明), born in Cheung Chau, is a physical trainer and 4 times winner of the Cheung Chau bun-scrambling competition in Cheung Chau, Hong Kong. The Bun Scrambling Event has been a traditional activity of the Cheung Chau Bun Festival. Kwok is a resident of Cheung Chau Island and works as a physical trainer for Shatin firefighters.\n\nIn 2005, in the first year of the modern competition, the trophy eventually went to Mr Kwok Ka-ming, who led a narrow edge of 30 marks over the first runner-up, Mr Yau Hung-ming, who scored 423 marks. In 2006, after an exciting round of the competition, Kwok Ka-ming retains the trophy by scoring 705 marks.\n\nIn 2007, Kwok Ka-Ming won by scoring 648 marks. Kwok Ka-Ming lost his title in 2008, when he scored 715 marks. In 2009, Kwok Ka-Ming did not feature in the top 3. But Kwok was the bun-scrambling king again in 2010, when he won the game by scoring 939 points. In 2011 he failed to make it to the finals.\n\nAt a quarter to midnight a paper effigy of the King of the Ghosts is set ablaze, enormous incense sticks are lit and the buns are harvested and distributed to the villagers, who, pleased to be sharing in this propitious good fortune, rejoice late into the night.\n\n As mentioned above, the bun-snatching ritual was abandoned by government decree due to the 1978 collapse of a tower. Still, many Cheung Chau villagers regard this celebration as part and parcel of their life, and also as an example of the precious culture of Hong Kong. In addition to the villagers' immense urge to resume the ritual, a local cartoon movie \"My life as McDull\" recalled the abandoned ceremony, giving rise to nostalgia in its viewers. Because of its great popularity, the long-awaited ritual was reintroduced on 15 May 2005. Safety measures were intensified: only 12 well-trained athletes selected from preliminary competitions were permitted to climb on one single \"Bun Mountain\", and instead of bamboo, the framework of the \"Bun Mountains\" was made of steel.\n\n\"My life as McDull\" was a sizable hit in Christmas 2001. This Hong Kong animated feature was primarily targeted at children. Aside from the cute character designs, however, \"My Life as McDull\" had also shown many renowned qualities of Hong Kong people—hard-working, carefree, and never giving up. The \"Hong Kong dream\" depicted in the film charmed much of its audience. The animation is aided by computer-generated backgrounds, but it retains a delightful hand-drawn look that is pleasing to movie-goers. In a part of the film, McDull decides to train to be an Olympic-level athlete like the Hong Kong Olympian Lee Lai-shan. However, the trade he learns is Cheung Chau bun-snatching. Realising that bun-snatching is not a formal sporting event in the Olympic games, McDull’s mother writes a letter to the chairman of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), asking him/her with her limited proficiency of English to sanctify the so-called sport event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49411489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49411489", "title": "Corning Opera House", "text": "Corning Opera House\n\nThe Corning Opera House is a theater located in Corning, Iowa, United States. This was the third of three opera houses built in town. The other two were built in the 1880s, and this one was completed in 1902. It was the only opera house in Corning by 1907, and it served as a theater until 1934. From its opening in 1902 until 1921 it staged theatrical performances, and from about 1920 to 1931 it showed movies. It also staged vaudeville performances and high school productions. The theater was located on the second floor. It featured raked seating on the main floor and in the horseshoe-shaped balcony, and it had a small stage and specialized rooms backstage. Commercial space is located on the main floor of the building.\n\nSince 1934 the second-floor opera house had been used for storage by the local newspaper. The western part of the building, the lobby and restroom area, was converted into apartments in 1943. The main floor in the opera house was leveled and marked for half-court basketball at some point. The building was individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1993. In 2012 it was included as a contributing property in the Corning Commercial Historic District.\n\nA multi-year $3.5 million renovation was completed in 2012. At that time the opera house was restored to a performance venue. A grand opening was held April 5 and 6, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "8544676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8544676", "title": "Counterculture of the 1960s", "text": "Counterculture of the 1960s\n\nThe counterculture of the 1960s was an anti-establishment cultural phenomenon that developed first in the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US) and then spread throughout much of the Western world between the mid-1960s and the mid-1970s, with London, New York City, and San Francisco being hotbeds of early countercultural activity. The aggregate movement gained momentum as the Civil Rights Movement continued to grow, and would later become revolutionary with the expansion of the U.S. government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. As the 1960s progressed, widespread social tensions also developed concerning other issues, and tended to flow along generational lines regarding human sexuality, women's rights, traditional modes of authority, experimentation with psychoactive drugs, and differing interpretations of the American Dream. Many key movements related to these issues were born or advanced within the counterculture of the 1960s.\n\nAs the era unfolded, new cultural forms and a dynamic subculture which celebrated experimentation, modern incarnations of Bohemianism, and the rise of the hippie and other alternative lifestyles, emerged. This embracing of creativity is particularly notable in the works of British Invasion bands such as The Beatles, and filmmakers whose works became far less restricted by censorship. In addition to the trendsetting Beatles, many other creative artists, authors, and thinkers, within and across many disciplines, helped define the counterculture movement.\n\nSeveral factors distinguished the counterculture of the 1960s from the anti-authoritarian movements of previous eras. The post-World War II \"baby boom\" generated an unprecedented number of potentially disaffected young people as prospective participants in a rethinking of the direction of American and other democratic societies. Post-war affluence allowed many of the counterculture generation to move beyond a focus on the provision of the material necessities of life that had preoccupied their Depression-era parents. The era was also notable in that a significant portion of the array of behaviors and \"causes\" within the larger movement were quickly assimilated within mainstream society, particularly in the US, even though counterculture participants numbered in the clear minority within their respective national populations.\n\nThe counterculture era essentially commenced in earnest with the assassination of John F. Kennedy in November 1963. It became absorbed into the popular culture with the termination of US combat military involvement in Southeast Asia and the end of the draft in 1973, and ultimately with the resignation of President Richard Nixon in August 1974.\n\nThe Cold War between communist states and capitalist states involved espionage and preparation for war between powerful nations, along with political and military interference by powerful states in the internal affairs of less powerful nations. Poor outcomes from some of these activities set the stage for disillusionment with, and distrust of, post-war governments. Examples included harsh Soviet Union (USSR) responses to popular anti-communist uprisings, such as the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and Czechoslovakia's Prague Spring in 1968, and the botched US Bay of Pigs Invasion of Cuba in 1961. In the US, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's initial deception\nover the nature of the 1960 U-2 incident resulted in the government being caught in a blatant lie at the highest levels, and contributed to a backdrop of growing distrust of authority among many who came of age during the period. The Partial Test Ban Treaty divided the establishment within the US along political and military lines. Internal political disagreements concerning treaty obligations in Southeast Asia (SEATO), especially in Vietnam, and debate as to how other communist insurgencies should be challenged, also created a rift of dissent within the establishment. In the UK, the Profumo Affair also involved establishment leaders being caught in deception, leading to disillusionment and serving as a catalyst for liberal activism. The Cuban Missile Crisis, which brought the world to the brink of nuclear war in October 1962, was largely fomented by duplicitous speech and actions on the part of the Soviet Union. The assassination of US President John F. Kennedy in November 1963, and the attendant theories concerning the event, led to further diminished trust in government, including among younger people.\n\nMany social issues fueled the growth of the larger counterculture movement. One was a nonviolent movement in the United States seeking to resolve constitutional civil rights illegalities, especially regarding general racial segregation, longstanding disfranchisement of blacks in the South by white-dominated state government, and ongoing racial discrimination in jobs, housing, and access to public places in both the North and the South.\nOn college and university campuses, student activists fought for the right to exercise their basic constitutional rights, especially freedom of speech and freedom of assembly.\n\nMany counterculture activists became aware of the plight of the poor, and community organizers fought for the funding of anti-poverty programs, particularly in the South and within inner city areas in the United States.\n\nEnvironmentalism grew from a greater understanding of the ongoing damage caused by industrialization, resultant pollution, and the misguided use of chemicals such as pesticides in well-meaning efforts to improve the quality of life for the rapidly growing population. Authors such as Rachel Carson played key roles in developing a new awareness among the global population of the fragility of our planet, despite resistance from elements of the establishment in many countries.\n\nThe need to address minority rights of women, gay people, the handicapped, and many other neglected constituencies within the larger population came to the forefront as an increasing number of primarily younger people broke free from the constraints of 1950s orthodoxy and struggled to create a more inclusive and tolerant social landscape.\n\nThe availability of new and more effective forms of birth control was a key underpinning of the sexual revolution. The notion of \"recreational sex\" without the threat of unwanted pregnancy radically changed the social dynamic and permitted both women and men much greater freedom in the selection of sexual lifestyles outside the confines of traditional marriage. With this change in attitude, by the 1990s the ratio of children born out of wedlock rose from 5% to 25% for Whites and from 25% to 66% for African-Americans.\n\nFor those born after World War II, the emergence of television as a source of entertainment and information—as well as the associated massive expansion of consumerism afforded by post-war affluence and encouraged by TV advertising—were key components in creating disillusionment for some younger people and in the formulation of new social behaviours, even as ad agencies heavily courted the \"hip\" youth market. In the US, nearly real-time TV news coverage of the civil rights era's Birmingham Campaign, the \"Bloody Sunday\" event of the Selma to Montgomery marches, and graphic news footage from Vietnam brought horrifying, moving images of the bloody reality of armed conflict into living rooms for the first time.\n\nThe breakdown of enforcement of the US Hays Code concerning censorship in motion picture production, the use of new forms of artistic expression in European and Asian cinema, and the advent of modern production values heralded a new era of art-house, pornographic, and mainstream film production, distribution, and exhibition. The end of censorship resulted in a complete reformation of the western film industry. With new-found artistic freedom, a generation of exceptionally talented New Wave film makers working across all genres brought realistic depictions of previously prohibited subject matter to neighborhood theater screens for the first time, even as Hollywood film studios were still considered a part of the establishment by some elements of the counterculture.\n\nBy the later 1960s, previously under-regarded FM radio replaced AM radio as the focal point for the ongoing explosion of rock and roll music, and became the nexus of youth-oriented news and advertising for the counterculture generation.\n\nCommunes, collectives, and intentional communities regained popularity during this era. Early communities, such as the Hog Farm, Quarry Hill, and Drop City\nin the US were established as straightforward agrarian attempts to return to the land and live free of interference from outside influences. As the era progressed, many people established and populated new communities in response to not only disillusionment with standard community forms, but also dissatisfaction with certain elements of the counterculture itself. Some of these self-sustaining communities have been credited with the birth and propagation of the international Green Movement.\n\nThe emergence of an interest in expanded spiritual consciousness, yoga, occult practices and increased human potential helped to shift views on organized religion during the era. In 1957, 69% of US residents polled by Gallup said religion was increasing in influence. By the late 1960s, polls indicated less than 20% still held that belief.\n\nThe \"Generation Gap\", or the inevitable perceived divide in worldview between the old and young, was perhaps never greater than during the counterculture era. A large measure of the generational chasm of the 1960s and early 1970s was born of rapidly evolving fashion and hairstyle trends that were readily adopted by the young, but often misunderstood and ridiculed by the old. These included the wearing of very long hair by men, the wearing of natural or \"Afro\" hairstyles by black people, the donning of revealing clothing by women in public, and the mainstreaming of the psychedelic clothing and regalia of the short-lived hippie culture. Ultimately, practical and comfortable casual apparel, namely updated forms of T-shirts (often tie-dyed, or emblazoned with political or advertising statements), and Levi Strauss-branded blue denim jeans became the enduring uniform of the generation. The fashion dominance of the counterculture effectively ended with the rise of the Disco and Punk Rock eras in the later 1970s, even as the global popularity of T-shirts, denim jeans, and casual clothing in general have continued to grow.\n\nIn the western world, the ongoing criminal legal status of the recreational drug industry was instrumental in the formation of an anti-establishment social dynamic by some of those coming of age during the counterculture era. The explosion of marijuana use during the era, in large part by students on fast-expanding college campuses, created an attendant need for increasing numbers of people to conduct their personal affairs in secret in the procurement and use of banned substances. The classification of marijuana as a narcotic, and the attachment of severe criminal penalties for its use, drove the act of smoking marijuana, and experimentation with substances in general, deep underground. Many began to live largely clandestine lives because of their choice to use such drugs and substances, fearing retribution from their governments.\n\nThe confrontations between college students (and other activists) and law enforcement officials became one of the hallmarks of the era. Many younger people began to show deep distrust of police, and terms such as \"fuzz\" and \"pig\" as derogatory epithets for police reappeared, and became key words within the counterculture lexicon. The distrust of police was based not only on fear of police brutality during political protests, but also on generalized police corruption - especially police manufacture of false evidence, and outright entrapment, in drug cases. In the US, the social tension between elements of the counterculture and law enforcement reached the breaking point in many notable cases, including: the Columbia University protests of 1968 in New York City, the 1968 Democratic National Convention protests in Chicago, the arrest and imprisonment of John Sinclair in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and the Kent State shootings at Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, where National Guardsman acted as surrogates for police. Police malfeasance was also an ongoing issue in the UK during the era.\n\nThe Vietnam War, and the protracted national divide between supporters and opponents of the war, were arguably the most important factors contributing to the rise of the larger counterculture movement.\n\nThe widely accepted assertion that anti-war opinion was held only among the young is a myth, but enormous war protests consisting of thousands of mostly younger people in every major US city, and elsewhere across the Western world, effectively united millions against the war, and against the war policy that prevailed under five US congresses and during two presidential administrations.\n\nThe counterculture movement took hold in Western Europe, with London, Amsterdam, Paris, Rome, Copenhagen and West Berlin rivaling San Francisco and New York as counterculture centers.\n\nThe UK Underground was a movement linked to the growing subculture in the US and associated with the hippie phenomenon, generating its own magazines and newspapers, fashion, music groups, and clubs. Underground figure Barry Miles said, \"The underground was a catch-all sobriquet for a community of like-minded anti-establishment, anti-war, pro-rock'n'roll individuals, most of whom had a common interest in recreational drugs. They saw peace, exploring a widened area of consciousness, love and sexual experimentation as more worthy of their attention than entering the rat race. The straight, consumerist lifestyle was not to their liking, but they did not object to others living it. But at that time the middle classes still felt they had the right to impose their values on everyone else, which resulted in conflict.\"\n\nIn the Netherlands, Provo was a counterculture movement that focused on \"provoking violent responses from authorities using non-violent bait.\"\n\nIn France, the General Strike centered in Paris in May 1968 united French students, and nearly toppled the government.\n\nKommune 1 or K1 was a commune in West Germany, and was known for its bizarre staged events that fluctuated between satire and provocation. These events served as inspiration for the \"Sponti\" movement and other leftist groups. In the late summer of 1968, the commune moved into a deserted factory on Stephanstraße in order to reorient. This second phase of Kommune 1 was characterized by sex, music and drugs. Soon, the commune was receiving visitors from all over the world, including Jimi Hendrix.\n\n\"Mánička\" is a Czech term used for young people with long hair, usually males, in Czechoslovakia through the 1960s and 1970s. Long hair for males during this time was considered an expression of political and social attitudes in communist Czechoslovakia. From the mid-1960s, the long-haired and \"untidy\" persons (so called \"máničky\" or \"vlasatci\" (in English: Mops) were banned from entering pubs, cinema halls, theatres and using public transportation in several Czech cities and towns. In 1964, the public transportation regulations in Most and Litvínov excluded long-haired \"máničky\" as displeasure-evoking persons. Two years later, the municipal council in Poděbrady banned \"máničky\" from entering cultural institutions in the town. In August 1966, \"Rudé právo\" informed that \"máničky\" in Prague were banned from visiting restaurants of the I. and II. price category.\n\nIn 1966, during a big campaign coordinated by the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, around 4,000 young males were forced to cut their hair, often in the cells with the assistance of the state police. On 19 August 1966, during a \"safety intervention\" organized by the state police, 140 long-haired people were arrested. As a response, the \"community of long-haired\" organized a protest in Prague. More than 100 people cheered slogans such as \"Give us back our hair!\" or \"Away with hairdressers!\". The state police arrested the organizers and several participants of the meeting. Some of them were given prison sentences. According to the newspaper \"Mladá fronta Dnes\", the Czechoslovak Ministry of Interior in 1966 even compiled a detailed map of the frequency of occurrence of long-haired males in Czechoslovakia. In August 1969, during the first anniversary of the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia, the long-haired youth were one of the most active voices in the state protesting against the occupation. Youth protesters have been labeled as \"vagabonds\" and \"slackers\" by the official normalized press.\n\n\"Oz\" magazine was first published as a satirical humour magazine between 1963 and 1969 in Sydney, Australia, and, in its second and better known incarnation, became a \"psychedelic hippy\" magazine from 1967 to 1973 in London. Strongly identified as part of the underground press, it was the subject of two celebrated obscenity trials, one in Australia in 1964 and the other in the United Kingdom in 1971.\n\nIn Mexico, rock music was tied into the youth revolt of the 1960s. Mexico City, as well as northern cities such as Monterrey, Nuevo Laredo, Ciudad Juárez, and Tijuana, were exposed to US music. Many Mexican rock stars became involved in the counterculture. The three-day Festival Rock y Ruedas de Avándaro, held in 1971, was organized in the valley of Avándaro near the city of Toluca, a town neighboring Mexico City, and became known as \"The Mexican Woodstock\". Nudity, drug use, and the presence of the US flag scandalized conservative Mexican society to such an extent that the government clamped down on rock and roll performances for the rest of the decade. The festival, marketed as proof of Mexico's modernization, was never expected to attract the masses it did, and the government had to evacuate stranded attendees en masse at the end. This occurred during the era of President Luis Echeverría, an extremely repressive era in Mexican history. Anything that could be connected to the counterculture or student protests was prohibited from being broadcast on public airwaves, with the government fearing a repeat of the student protests of 1968. Few bands survived the prohibition; though the ones that did, like Three Souls in My Mind (now El Tri), remained popular due in part to their adoption of Spanish for their lyrics, but mostly as a result of a dedicated underground following. While Mexican rock groups were eventually able to perform publicly by the mid-1980s, the ban prohibiting tours of Mexico by foreign acts lasted until 1989.\n\nThe Cordobazo was a civil uprising in the city of Córdoba, Argentina, in the end of May 1969, during the military dictatorship of General Juan Carlos Onganía, which occurred a few days after the \"Rosariazo\", and a year after the French May '68. Contrary to previous protests, the Cordobazo did not correspond to previous struggles, headed by Marxist workers' leaders, but associated students and workers in the same struggle against the military government.\n\nThe Civil Rights Movement, a key element of the larger counterculture movement, involved the use of applied nonviolence to assure that equal rights guaranteed under the US Constitution would apply to all citizens. Many states illegally denied many of these rights to African-Americans, and this was successfully addressed in the early and mid-1960s in several major nonviolent movements.\n\nMuch of the 1960s counterculture originated on college campuses. The 1964 Free Speech Movement at the University of California, Berkeley, which had its roots in the Civil Rights Movement of the southern United States, was one early example. At Berkeley a group of students began to identify themselves as having interests as a class that were at odds with the interests and practices of the University and its corporate sponsors. Other rebellious young people, who were not students, also contributed to the Free Speech Movement.\n\nThe \"New Left\" is a term used in different countries to describe left-wing movements that occurred in the 1960s and 1970s in the Western world. They differed from earlier leftist movements that had been more oriented towards labour activism, and instead adopted social activism. The US \"New Left\" is associated with college campus mass protests and radical leftist movements. The British \"New Left\" was an intellectually driven movement which attempted to correct the perceived errors of \"Old Left\" parties in the post-World War II period. The movements began to wind down in the 1970s, when activists either committed themselves to party projects, developed social justice organizations, moved into identity politics or alternative lifestyles, or became politically inactive.\n\nThe emergence of the New Left in the 1950s and 1960s led to a revival of interest in libertarian socialism. The New Left's critique of the Old Left's authoritarianism was associated with a strong interest in personal liberty, autonomy (see the thinking of Cornelius Castoriadis) and led to a rediscovery of older socialist traditions, such as left communism, council communism, and the Industrial Workers of the World. The New Left also led to a revival of anarchism. Journals like \"Radical America\" and \"Black Mask\" in America, \"Solidarity\", \"Big Flame\" and \"Democracy & Nature\", succeeded by \"The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy\", in the UK, introduced a range of left libertarian ideas to a new generation. Social ecology, autonomism and, more recently, participatory economics (parecon), and Inclusive Democracy emerged from this.\n\nA surge of popular interest in anarchism occurred in western nations during the 1960s and 1970s. Anarchism was influential in the counterculture of the 1960s and anarchists actively participated in the late 60s students and workers revolts. During the IX Congress of the Italian Anarchist Federation in Carrara in 1965, a group decided to split off from this organization and created the \"Gruppi di Iniziativa Anarchica\". In the 70s, it was mostly composed of \"veteran individualist anarchists with a pacifism orientation, naturism, etc,  ...\". In 1968, in Carrara, Italy the International of Anarchist Federations was founded during an international anarchist conference held there in 1968 by the three existing European federations of France, the Italian and the Iberian Anarchist Federation as well as the Bulgarian federation in French exile. During the events of May 68 the anarchist groups active in France were Fédération anarchiste, Mouvement communiste libertaire, Union fédérale des anarchistes, Alliance ouvrière anarchiste, Union des groupes anarchistes communistes, Noir et Rouge, Confédération nationale du travail, Union anarcho-syndicaliste, Organisation révolutionnaire anarchiste, \"Cahiers socialistes libertaires\", \"À contre-courant\", \"La Révolution prolétarienne\", and the publications close to Émile Armand.\n\nThe New Left in the United States also included anarchist, countercultural and hippie-related radical groups such as the Yippies who were led by Abbie Hoffman, The Diggers and Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers. By late 1966, the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. On the other hand, the Yippies employed theatrical gestures, such as advancing a pig (\"Pigasus the Immortal\") as a candidate for President in 1968, to mock the social status quo. They have been described as a highly theatrical, anti-authoritarian and anarchist youth movement of \"symbolic politics\". Since they were well known for street theater and politically themed pranks, many of the \"old school\" political left either ignored or denounced them. According to ABC News, \"The group was known for street theater pranks and was once referred to as the 'Groucho Marxists'.\"\n\nIn Trafalgar Square, London in 1958, in an act of civil disobedience, 60,000-100,000 protesters made up of students and pacifists converged in what was to become the \"ban the Bomb\" demonstrations.\n\nOpposition to the Vietnam War began in 1964 on United States college campuses. Student activism became a dominant theme among the baby boomers, growing to include many other demographic groups. Exemptions and deferments for the middle and upper classes resulted in the induction of a disproportionate number of poor, working-class, and minority registrants. Countercultural books such as MacBird by Barbara Garson and much of the counterculture music encouraged a spirit of non-conformism and anti-establishmentarianism. By 1968, the year after a large march to the United Nations in New York City and a large protest at the Pentagon were undertaken, a majority of people in the country opposed the war.\n\nThe application of nuclear technology, both as a source of energy and as an instrument of war, has been controversial.\n\nScientists and diplomats have debated the nuclear weapons policy since before the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. The public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nThe role of women as full-time homemakers in industrial society was challenged in 1963, when US feminist Betty Friedan published \"The Feminine Mystique\", giving momentum to the women's movement and influencing what many called Second-wave feminism. Other activists, such as Gloria Steinem and Angela Davis, either organized, influenced, or educated many of a younger generation of women to endorse and expand feminist thought. Feminism gained further currency within the protest movements of the late 1960s, as women in movements such as Students for a Democratic Society rebelled against the \"support\" role they had been consigned to within the male-dominated New Left, as well as against manifestations and statements of sexism within some radical groups. The 1970 pamphlet \"Women and Their Bodies\", soon expanded into the 1971 book \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\", was particularly influential in bringing about the new feminist consciousness.\n\nThe 1960s counterculture embraced a back-to-the-land ethic, and communes of the era often relocated to the country from cities. Influential books of the 1960s included Rachel Carson's \"Silent Spring\" and Paul Ehrlich's \"The Population Bomb\". Counterculture environmentalists were quick to grasp the implications of Ehrlich's writings on overpopulation, the Hubbert \"peak oil\" prediction, and more general concerns over pollution, litter, the environmental effects of the Vietnam War, automobile-dependent lifestyles, and nuclear energy. More broadly they saw that the dilemmas of energy and resource allocation would have implications for geo-politics, lifestyle, environment, and other dimensions of modern life. The \"back to nature\" theme was already prevalent in the counterculture by the time of the 1969 Woodstock festival, while the first Earth Day in 1970 was significant in bringing environmental concerns to the forefront of youth culture. At the start of the 1970s, counterculture-oriented publications like the \"Whole Earth Catalog\" and \"The Mother Earth News\" were popular, out of which emerged a back to the land movement. The 1960s and early 1970s counterculture were early adopters of practices such as recycling and organic farming long before they became mainstream. The counterculture interest in ecology progressed well into the 1970s: particularly influential were New Left eco-anarchist Murray Bookchin, Jerry Mander's criticism of the effects of television on society, Ernest Callenbach's novel \"Ecotopia\", Edward Abbey's fiction and non-fiction writings, and E.F. Schumacher's economics book \"Small is Beautiful\".\n\nThe Stonewall riots were a series of spontaneous, violent demonstrations against a police raid that took place in the early morning hours of June 28, 1969, at the Stonewall Inn, a gay bar in the Greenwich Village neighborhood of New York City. This is frequently cited as the first instance in US history when people in the gay community fought back against a government-sponsored system that persecuted sexual minorities, and became the defining event that marked the start of the Gay rights movement in the United States and around the world.\n\nAfter the January 14, 1967 Human Be-In in San Francisco organized by artist Michael Bowen, the media's attention on culture was fully activated. In 1967, Scott McKenzie's rendition of the song \"San Francisco (Be Sure to Wear Flowers in Your Hair)\" brought as many as 100,000 young people from all over the world to celebrate San Francisco's \"Summer of Love.\" While the song had originally been written by John Phillips of The Mamas & the Papas to promote the June 1967 Monterey Pop Festival, it became an instant hit worldwide (#4 in the United States, #1 in Europe) and quickly transcended its original purpose.\n\nSan Francisco's flower children, also called \"hippies\" by local newspaper columnist Herb Caen, adopted new styles of dress, experimented with psychedelic drugs, lived communally and developed a vibrant music scene. When people returned home from \"The Summer of Love\" these styles and behaviors spread quickly from San Francisco and Berkeley to many US and Canadian cities and European capitals. Some hippies formed communes to live as far outside of the established system as possible. This aspect of the counterculture rejected active political engagement with the mainstream and, following the dictate of Timothy Leary to \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\", hoped to change society by dropping out of it. Looking back on his own life (as a Harvard professor) prior to 1960, Leary interpreted it to have been that of \"an anonymous institutional employee who drove to work each morning in a long line of commuter cars and drove home each night and drank martinis  ... like several million middle-class, liberal, intellectual robots.\"\n\nAs members of the hippie movement grew older and moderated their lives and their views, and especially after US involvement in the Vietnam War ended in the mid-1970s, the counterculture was largely absorbed by the mainstream, leaving a lasting impact on philosophy, morality, music, art, alternative health and diet, lifestyle and fashion.\n\nIn addition to a new style of clothing, philosophy, art, music and various views on anti-war, and anti-establishment, some hippies decided to turn away from modern society and re-settle on ranches, or communes. The very first of communes in the United States was a seven-acre land in Southern Colorado, named Drop City. According to Timothy Miller, \n\nDrop City brought together most of the themes that had been developing in other recent communities-anarchy, pacifism, sexual freedom, rural isolation, interest in drugs, art-and wrapped them flamboyantly into a commune not quite like any that had gone before\n\nMany of the inhabitants practiced acts like reusing trash and recycled materials to build Geodesic domes for shelter and other various purposes; using various drugs like marijuana and LSD, and creating various pieces of Drop Art. After the initial success of Drop City, visitors would take the idea of communes and spread them. Another commune called \"The Ranch\" was very similar to the culture of Drop City, as well as new concepts like giving children of the commune extensive freedoms known as \"children's rights\".\n\nDuring the 1960s, this second group of casual lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) users evolved and expanded into a subculture that extolled the mystical and religious symbolism often engendered by the drug's powerful effects, and advocated its use as a method of raising consciousness. The personalities associated with the subculture, gurus such as Timothy Leary and psychedelic rock musicians such as the Grateful Dead, Pink Floyd, Jimi Hendrix, The Byrds, The 13th Floor Elevators, Ultimate Spinach, Janis Joplin, Crosby, Stills & Nash, The Doors, Blue Cheer, The Chambers Brothers, Country Joe and the Fish, Big Brother and the Holding Company, Jefferson Airplane and the Beatles, soon attracted a great deal of publicity, generating further interest in LSD.\n\nThe popularization of LSD outside of the medical world was hastened when individuals such as Ken Kesey participated in drug trials and liked what they saw. Tom Wolfe wrote a widely read account of these early days of LSD's entrance into the non-academic world in his book \"The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test\", which documented the cross-country, acid-fueled voyage of Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters on the psychedelic bus \"Furthur\" and the Pranksters' later \"Acid Test\" LSD parties. In 1965, Sandoz laboratories stopped its still legal shipments of LSD to the United States for research and psychiatric use, after a request from the US government concerned about its use. By April 1966, LSD use had become so widespread that \"Time Magazine\" warned about its dangers. In December 1966, the exploitation film \"Hallucination Generation\" was released. This was followed by \"The Trip\" in 1967 and \"Psych-Out\" in 1968.\n\nAs most research on psychedelics began in the 1940s and 50s, heavy experimentation made its effect in the 1960s during this era of change and movement. Researchers were gaining acknowledgment and popularity with their promotion of psychedelia. This really anchored the change that counterculture instigators and followers began. Most research was conducted at top collegiate institutes, such as Harvard University.\n\nTimothy Leary and his Harvard research team had hopes for potential changes in society. Their research began with psilocybin mushrooms and was called the Harvard Psilocybin Project. In one study known as the Concord Prison Experiment, Leary investigated the potential for psilocybin to reduce recidivism in criminals being released from prison. After the research sessions, Leary did a follow-up. He found that \"75% of the turned on prisoners who were released had stayed out of jail.\" He believed he had solved the nation's crime problem. But with many officials skeptical, this breakthrough was not promoted.\n\nBecause of the personal experiences with these drugs Leary and his many outstanding colleagues, Aldous Huxley (\"The Doors of Perception\") and Alan Watts (\"The Joyous Cosmology\") believed that these were the mechanisms that could bring peace to not only the nation but the world. As their research continued the media followed them and published their work and documented their behavior, the trend of this counterculture drug experimentation began.\n\nLeary made attempts to bring more organized awareness to people interested in the study of psychedelics. He confronted the Senate committee in Washington and recommended for colleges to authorize the conduction of laboratory courses in psychedelics. He noted that these courses would \"end the indiscriminate use of LSD and would be the most popular and productive courses ever offered\". Although these men were seeking an ultimate enlightenment, reality eventually proved that the potential they thought was there could not be reached, at least in this time. The change they sought for the world had not been permitted by the political systems of all the nations these men pursued their research in. Ram Dass states, \"Tim and I actually had a chart on the wall about how soon everyone would be enlightened ... We found out that real change is harder. We downplayed the fact that the psychedelic experience isn't for everyone.\"\n\nLeary and his team's research got shut down at Harvard and everywhere they relocated around the globe. Their outlawish behavior and aggressive approach with these drugs did not settle well with the law. Officials did not agree with this chaotic promotion of peace.\n\nResearch with psychedelic drugs and those who conducted it was a radical understanding for the vast majority of the world. However, it did create a change. A ripple of curiosity was created as a result and the wave is continuing to swell.\n\nKen Kesey and his Merry Pranksters helped shape the developing character of the 1960s counterculture when they embarked on a cross-country voyage during the summer of 1964 in a psychedelic school bus named \"Furthur\". Beginning in 1959, Kesey had volunteered as a research subject for medical trials financed by the CIA's \"MK ULTRA\" project. These trials tested the effects of LSD, psilocybin, mescaline, and other psychedelic drugs. After the medical trials, Kesey continued experimenting on his own, and involved many close friends; collectively they became known as \"The Merry Pranksters\". The Pranksters visited Harvard LSD proponent Timothy Leary at his Millbrook, New York retreat, and experimentation with LSD and other psychedelic drugs, primarily as a means for internal reflection and personal growth, became a constant during the Prankster trip.\n\nThe Pranksters created a direct link between the 1950s Beat Generation and the 1960s psychedelic scene; the bus was driven by Beat icon Neal Cassady, Beat poet Allen Ginsberg was on board for a time, and they dropped in on Cassady's friend, Beat author Jack Kerouac - though Kerouac declined to participate in the Prankster scene. After the Pranksters returned to California, they popularized the use of LSD at so-called \"Acid Tests\", which initially were held at Kesey's home in La Honda, California, and then at many other West Coast venues. The cross country trip and Prankster experiments were documented in Tom Wolfe's \"The Electric Kool Aid Acid Test\", a masterpiece of New Journalism.\n\nExperimentation with LSD, peyote, psilocybin mushrooms, MDA, marijuana, and other psychedelic drugs became a major component of 1960s counterculture, influencing philosophy, art, music and styles of dress. Jim DeRogatis wrote that peyote, a small cactus containing the psychedelic alkaloid mescaline, was widely available in Austin, Texas, a countercultural hub in the early 1960s.\n\nThe sexual revolution (also known as a time of \"sexual liberation\") was a social movement that challenged traditional codes of behavior related to sexuality and interpersonal relationships throughout the Western world from the 1960s to the 1980s. Sexual liberation included increased acceptance of sex outside of traditional heterosexual, monogamous relationships (primarily marriage). Contraception and the pill, public nudity, the normalization of premarital sex, homosexuality and alternative forms of sexuality, and the legalization of abortion all followed.\n\nUnderground newspapers sprang up in most cities and college towns, serving to define and communicate the range of phenomena that defined the counterculture: radical political opposition to \"The Establishment\", colorful experimental (and often explicitly drug-influenced) approaches to art, music and cinema, and uninhibited indulgence in sex and drugs as a symbol of freedom. The papers also often included comic strips, from which the underground comix were an outgrowth.\n\nAs numbers of young people became alienated from social norms, they resisted and looked for alternatives. The forms of escape and resistance manifest in many ways including social activism, alternative lifestyles, dress, music and alternative recreational activities, including that of throwing a Frisbee. From hippies tossing the Frisbee at festivals and concerts came today's popular disc sports. Disc sports such as disc freestyle, double disc court, disc guts, Ultimate and disc golf became this sport's first events.\n\nThe Situationist International was a restricted group of international revolutionaries founded in 1957, and which had its peak in its influence on the unprecedented general wildcat strikes of May 1968 in France. With their ideas rooted in Marxism and the 20th-century European artistic avant-gardes, they advocated experiences of life being alternative to those admitted by the capitalist order, for the fulfillment of human primitive desires and the pursuing of a superior passional quality. For this purpose they suggested and experimented with the \"construction of situations\", namely the setting up of environments favorable for the fulfillment of such desires. Using methods drawn from the arts, they developed a series of experimental fields of study for the construction of such situations, like unitary urbanism and psychogeography. They fought against the main obstacle on the fulfillment of such superior passional living, identified by them in advanced capitalism. Their theoretical work peaked on the highly influential book \"The Society of the Spectacle\" by Guy Debord. Debord argued in 1967 that spectacular features like mass media and advertising have a central role in an advanced capitalist society, which is to show a fake reality in order to mask the real capitalist degradation of human life. Raoul Vaneigem wrote \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" which takes the field of \"everyday life\" as the ground upon which communication and participation can occur, or, as is more commonly the case, be perverted and abstracted into pseudo-forms.\n\nFluxus (a name taken from a Latin word meaning \"to flow\") is an international network of artists, composers and designers noted for blending different artistic media and disciplines in the 1960s. They have been active in Neo-Dada noise music, visual art, literature, urban planning, architecture, and design. Fluxus is often described as intermedia, a term coined by Fluxus artist Dick Higgins in a famous 1966 essay. Fluxus encouraged a \"do-it-yourself\" aesthetic, and valued simplicity over complexity. Like Dada before it, Fluxus included a strong current of anti-commercialism and an anti-art sensibility, disparaging the conventional market-driven art world in favor of an artist-centered creative practice. As Fluxus artist Robert Filliou wrote, however, Fluxus differed from Dada in its richer set of aspirations, and the positive social and communitarian aspirations of Fluxus far outweighed the anti-art tendency that also marked the group.\n\nIn the 1960s, the Dada-influenced art group Black Mask declared that revolutionary art should be \"an integral part of life, as in primitive society, and not an appendage to wealth.\" Black Mask disrupted cultural events in New York by giving made up flyers of art events to the homeless with the lure of free drinks. After, the Motherfuckers grew out of a combination of Black Mask and another group called Angry Arts. Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers (often referred to as simply \"the Motherfuckers\", or UAW/MF) was an anarchist affinity group based in New York City.\n\nDuring the early 1960s, Britain's new wave of musicians gained popularity and fame in the United States. Artists such as the Beatles paved the way for their compatriots to enter the US market. The Beatles themselves were influenced by many artists, among them American singer-songwriter Bob Dylan, who was a lyrical inspiration as well as their introduction to marijuana. Dylan's early career as a protest singer had been inspired by artists like Pete Seeger and his hero Woody Guthrie. Other folksingers, like Joan Baez and Peter, Paul and Mary, took the songs of the era to new audiences and public recognition.\n\nThe music of the 1960s moved towards an electric, psychedelic version of rock, thanks largely to Bob Dylan's decision to play an electric guitar at the 1965 Newport Folk Festival. The newly popularized electric sound of rock was then built upon and molded into psychedelic rock by artists like The 13th Floor Elevators and British bands Pink Floyd and the Beatles. The Beach Boys' 1966 album \"Pet Sounds\" also paved the way for later hippie acts, with Brian Wilson's writing interpreted as a \"plea for love and understanding.\" \"Pet Sounds\" served as a major source of inspiration for other contemporary acts, most notably directly inspiring the Beatles' \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". The single \"Good Vibrations\" soared to number one globally, completely changing the perception of what a record could be. It was during this period that the highly anticipated album \"Smile\" was to be released. However, the project collapsed and The Beach Boys released a downgraded version called \"Smiley Smile\", which failed to make a big commercial impact but was also highly influential, most notably on The Who's Pete Townshend.\n\nThe Beatles went on to become the most prominent commercial exponents of the \"psychedelic revolution\" (e.g., \"Revolver\", \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" and \"Magical Mystery Tour\") in the late 1960s. In the United States, bands that exemplified the counterculture were becoming huge commercial and mainstream successes. These included The Mamas & the Papas (\"If You Can Believe Your Eyes and Ears\"), Big Brother and the Holding Company (\"Cheap Thrills\"), Jimi Hendrix (\"Are You Experienced\"), Jefferson Airplane (\"Surrealistic Pillow\"), The Doors (\"The Doors\") and Sly and the Family Stone (\"Stand!\"). Bands and other musicians, such as the Grateful Dead, Neil Young (Canada), David Peel, Phil Ochs, The Fugs, Quicksilver Messenger Service, John Sebastian, Melanie, The Velvet Underground, Frank Zappa, Captain Beefheart, Santana, CSNY, Shocking Blue, Country Joe and the Fish, and The Holy Modal Rounders were considered key to the counterculture movement.\n\nWhile the hippie scene was born in California, an edgier scene emerged in New York City that put more emphasis on avant-garde and art music. Bands such as The Velvet Underground came out of this underground music scene, which was predominantly centered at Andy Warhol's legendary Factory. The Velvet Underground supplied the music for the Exploding Plastic Inevitable, a series of multimedia events staged by Warhol and his collaborators in 1966 and 1967. The Velvet Underground's lyrics were considered risqué for the era, since they discussed sexual fetishism, transgender identities, and the use of hard drugs associated with Warhol's Factory and its superstars.\nDetroit's MC5 also came out of the underground rock music scene of the late 1960s. They introduced a more aggressive evolution of garage rock which was often fused with sociopolitical and countercultural lyrics of the era, such as in the song \"Motor City Is Burning\" (a John Lee Hooker cover adapting the story of the Detroit Race Riot of 1943 to the Detroit riot of 1967). MC5 had ties to radical leftist organizations such as \"Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers\" and John Sinclair's White Panther Party, and MC5 performed a lengthy set before the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago, where an infamous riot subsequently broke out between police and students protesting the Vietnam War and the recent assassinations of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Robert Kennedy. MC5, The Stooges and the aforementioned Velvet Underground, are now seen as an influence on the protopunk sound that would lead to punk rock and heavy metal music in the late 1970s.\n\nAnother hotbed of the 1960s counterculture was Austin, Texas, with two of the era's legendary music venues-the Vulcan Gas Company and the Armadillo World Headquarters-and musical talent like Janis Joplin, the 13th Floor Elevators, Shiva's Headband, the Conqueroo, and, later, Stevie Ray Vaughan. Austin was also home to a large New Left activist movement, one of the earliest underground papers, The Rag, and cutting edge graphic artists like Fabulous Furry Freak Brothers creator Gilbert Shelton, underground comix pioneer Jack Jackson (Jaxon), and surrealist armadillo artist Jim Franklin.\n\nThe 1960s was also an era of rock festivals, which played an important role in spreading the counterculture across the US. The Monterey Pop Festival, which launched Hendrix's career in the US, was one of the first of these festivals. Britain's 1968–1970 Isle of Wight Festivals drew big names such as The Who, The Doors, Joni Mitchell, Hendrix, Dylan, and others. The 1969 Woodstock Festival in New York state became a symbol of the movement, although the 1970 Isle of Wight Festival drew a larger crowd. Some believe the era came to an abrupt end with the infamous Altamont Free Concert held by The Rolling Stones, in which heavy-handed security from the Hells Angels resulted in the stabbing of an audience member, apparently in self-defense, as the show descended into chaos.\nAs the psychedelic revolution progressed, lyrics grew more complex, (such as Jefferson Airplane's \"White Rabbit\"). Long-playing albums enabled artists to make more in-depth statements than could be made in just a single song (such as the Mothers of Invention's satirical \"Freak Out!\"). Even the rules governing single songs were stretched, and singles lasting longer than three minutes emerged, such as Dylan's \"Like a Rolling Stone\", Arlo Guthrie's \"Alice's Restaurant\", and Iron Butterfly's 17-minute-long \"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida.\".\n\nThe 1960s saw the protest song gain a sense of political self-importance, with Phil Ochs's \"I Ain't Marching Anymore\" and Country Joe and the Fish's \"I-Feel-Like-I'm-Fixin'-to-Die-Rag\" among the many anti-war anthems that were important to the era.\n\nFree jazz is an approach to jazz music that was first developed in the 1950s and 1960s. Although the music produced by free jazz composers varied widely, the common feature was a dissatisfaction with the limitations of bebop, hard bop, and modal jazz, which had developed in the 1940s and 1950s. Each in their own way, free jazz musicians attempted to alter, extend, or break down the conventions of jazz, often by discarding hitherto invariable features of jazz, such as fixed chord changes or tempos. While usually considered experimental and avant-garde, free jazz has also oppositely been conceived as an attempt to return jazz to its \"primitive\", often religious roots, and emphasis on collective improvisation. Free jazz is strongly associated with the 1950s innovations of Ornette Coleman and Cecil Taylor and the later works of saxophonist John Coltrane. Other important pioneers included Charles Mingus, Eric Dolphy, Albert Ayler, Archie Shepp, Joe Maneri and Sun Ra. Although today \"free jazz\" is the generally used term, many other terms were used to describe the loosely defined movement, including \"avant-garde\", \"energy music\" and \"The New Thing\". During its early and mid-60s heyday, much free jazz was released by established labels such as Prestige, Blue Note and Impulse, as well as independents such as ESP Disk and BYG Actuel. Free improvisation or \"free music\" is improvised music without any rules beyond the logic or inclination of the musician(s) involved. The term can refer to both a technique (employed by any musician in any genre) and as a recognizable genre in its own right. Free improvisation, as a genre of music, developed in the U.S. and Europe in the mid to late 1960s, largely as an outgrowth of free jazz and modern classical musics. None of its primary exponents can be said to be famous within mainstream; however, in experimental circles, a number of free musicians are well known, including saxophonists Evan Parker, Anthony Braxton, Peter Brötzmann and John Zorn, drummer Christian Lillinger, trombonist George Lewis, guitarists Derek Bailey, Henry Kaiser and Fred Frith and the improvising groups The Art Ensemble of Chicago and AMM.\n\nAllmusic Guide states that \"until around 1967, the worlds of jazz and rock were nearly completely separate\". The term, \"jazz-rock\" (or \"jazz/rock\") is often used as a synonym for the term \"jazz fusion\". However, some make a distinction between the two terms. The Free Spirits have sometimes been cited as the earliest jazz-rock band. During the late 1960s, at the same time that jazz musicians were experimenting with rock rhythms and electric instruments, rock groups such as Cream and the Grateful Dead were \"beginning to incorporate elements of jazz into their music\" by \"experimenting with extended free-form improvisation\". Other \"groups such as Blood, Sweat & Tears directly borrowed harmonic, melodic, rhythmic and instrumentational elements from the jazz tradition\". The rock groups that drew on jazz ideas (like Soft Machine, Colosseum, Caravan, Nucleus, Chicago, Spirit and Frank Zappa) turned the blend of the two styles with electric instruments. Since rock often emphasized directness and simplicity over virtuosity, jazz-rock generally grew out of the most artistically ambitious rock subgenres of the late 1960s and early 70s: psychedelia, progressive rock, and the singer-songwriter movement.\" Miles Davis' \"Bitches Brew\" sessions, recorded in August 1969 and released the following year, mostly abandoned jazz's usual swing beat in favor of a rock-style backbeat anchored by electric bass grooves. The recording \"... mixed free jazz blowing by a large ensemble with electronic keyboards and guitar, plus a dense mix of percussion.\" Davis also drew on the rock influence by playing his trumpet through electronic effects and pedals. While the album gave Davis a gold record, the use of electric instruments and rock beats created a great deal of consternation amongst some more conservative jazz critics.\n\nThe counterculture was not only affected by cinema, but was also instrumental in the provision of era-relevant content and talent for the film industry. \"Bonnie and Clyde\" struck a chord with the youth as \"the alienation of the young in the 1960s was comparable to the director's image of the 1930s.\" Films of this time also focused on the changes happening in the world. A sign of this was the visibility that the hippie subculture gained in various mainstream and underground media. Hippie exploitation films are 1960s exploitation films about the hippie counterculture with stereotypical situations associated with the movement such as marijuana and LSD use, sex and wild psychedelic parties. Examples include \"The Love-ins\", \"Psych-Out\", \"The Trip\", and \"Wild in the Streets\". The musical play \"Hair\" shocked stage audiences with full-frontal nudity. Dennis Hopper's \"Road Trip\" adventure \"Easy Rider\" (1969) became accepted as one of the landmark films of the era. \"Medium Cool\" portrayed the 1968 Democratic Convention alongside the 1968 Chicago police riots which has led to it being labeled as \"a fusion of cinema-vérité and political radicalism\". One film-studio attempt to cash in on the hippie trend was 1968's \"Psych-Out\", which is in contrast to the film version of Arlo Guthrie's \"Alice's Restaurant\", which some say portrayed the generation as \"doomed\". The music of the era was represented by films such as 1970s \"Woodstock\", a documentary of the music festival. \"(See also: List of films related to the hippie subculture)\" Inaugurated by the 1969 release of Andy Warhol \"Blue Movie\", the phenomenon of adult erotic films being publicly discussed by celebrities (like Johnny Carson and Bob Hope), and taken seriously by critics (like Roger Ebert), a development referred to, by Ralph Blumenthal of \"The New York Times\", as \"porno chic\", and later known as the Golden Age of Porn, began, for the first time, in modern American culture. According to award-winning author Toni Bentley, Radley Metzger 1976 film \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\", based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw (and its derivative, \"My Fair Lady\"), and due to attaining a mainstream level in storyline and sets, is considered the \"crown jewel\" of this 'Golden Age'.\n\nIn France the New Wave was a blanket term coined by critics for a group of French filmmakers of the late 1950s and 1960s, influenced by Italian Neorealism and classical Hollywood cinema. Although never a formally organized movement, the New Wave filmmakers were linked by their self-conscious rejection of classical cinematic form and their spirit of youthful iconoclasm and is an example of European art cinema. Many also engaged in their work with the social and political upheavals of the era, making their radical experiments with editing, visual style and narrative part of a general break with the conservative paradigm. The Left Bank, or \"Rive Gauche\", group is a contingent of filmmakers associated with the French New Wave, first identified as such by Richard Roud. The corresponding \"right bank\" group is constituted of the more famous and financially successful New Wave directors associated with \"Cahiers du cinéma\" (Claude Chabrol, François Truffaut, and Jean-Luc Godard). Left Bank directors include Chris Marker, Alain Resnais, and Agnès Varda. Roud described a distinctive \"fondness for a kind of Bohemian life and an impatience with the conformity of the Right Bank, a high degree of involvement in literature and the plastic arts, and a consequent interest in experimental filmmaking\", as well as an identification with the political left. Other film \"new waves\" from around the world associated with the 1960s are New German Cinema, Czechoslovak New Wave, Brazilian Cinema Novo and Japanese New Wave. During the 1960s, the term \"art film\" began to be much more widely used in the United States than in Europe. In the U.S., the term is often defined very broadly, to include foreign-language (non-English) \"auteur\" films, independent films, experimental films, documentaries and short films. In the 1960s \"art film\" became a euphemism in the U.S. for racy Italian and French B-movies. By the 1970s, the term was used to describe sexually explicit European films with artistic structure such as the Swedish film \"I Am Curious (Yellow)\". The 1960s was an important period in art film; the release of a number of groundbreaking films giving rise to the European art cinema which had countercultural traits in filmmakers such as Michelangelo Antonioni, Federico Fellini, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Luis Buñuel and Bernardo Bertolucci.\n\nCultural historians–such as Theodore Roszak in his 1986 essay \"From Satori to Silicon Valley\" and John Markoff in his book \"What the Dormouse Said\", have pointed out that many of the early pioneers of personal computing emerged from within the West Coast counterculture. Many early computing and networking pioneers, after discovering LSD and roaming the campuses of UC Berkeley, Stanford, and MIT in the late 1960s and early 1970s, would emerge from this caste of social \"misfits\" to shape the modern world of technology, especially in Silicon Valley.\n\nMany hippies rejected mainstream organized religion in favor of a more personal spiritual experience, often drawing on indigenous and folk beliefs. If they adhered to mainstream faiths, hippies were likely to embrace Buddhism, Daoism, Hinduism, Unitarian Universalism and the restorationist Christianity of the Jesus Movement. Some hippies embraced neo-paganism, especially Wicca. Wicca is a witchcraft religion which became more prominent beginning in 1951, with the repeal of the Witchcraft Act of 1735, after which Gerald Gardner and then others such as Charles Cardell and Cecil Williamson began publicising their own versions of the Craft. Gardner and others never used the term \"Wicca\" as a religious identifier, simply referring to the \"witch cult\", \"witchcraft\", and the \"Old Religion\". However, Gardner did refer to witches as \"the Wica\". During the 1960s, the name of the religion normalised to \"Wicca\". Gardner's tradition, later termed Gardnerianism, soon became the dominant form in England and spread to other parts of the British Isles. Following Gardner's death in 1964, the Craft continued to grow unabated despite sensationalism and negative portrayals in British tabloids, with new traditions being propagated by figures like Robert Cochrane, Sybil Leek and most importantly Alex Sanders, whose Alexandrian Wicca, which was predominantly based upon Gardnerian Wicca, albeit with an emphasis placed on ceremonial magic, spread quickly and gained much media attention.\n\nIn his 1991 book, \"Hippies and American Values\", Timothy Miller described the hippie ethos as essentially a \"religious movement\" whose goal was to transcend the limitations of mainstream religious institutions. \"Like many dissenting religions, the hippies were enormously hostile to the religious institutions of the dominant culture, and they tried to find new and adequate ways to do the tasks the dominant religions failed to perform.\" In his seminal, contemporaneous work, \"The Hippie Trip\", author Lewis Yablonsky notes that those who were most respected in hippie settings were the spiritual leaders, the so-called \"high priests\" who emerged during that era.\n\nOne such hippie \"high priest\" was San Francisco State College instructor Stephen Gaskin. Beginning in 1966, Gaskin's \"Monday Night Class\" eventually outgrew the lecture hall, and attracted 1,500 hippie followers in an open discussion of spiritual values, drawing from Christian, Buddhist, and Hindu teachings. In 1970, Gaskin founded a Tennessee community called The Farm, and he still lists his religion as \"Hippie.\"\n\nTimothy Leary was an American psychologist and writer, known for his advocacy of psychedelic drugs. On September 19, 1966, Leary founded the League for Spiritual Discovery, a religion declaring LSD as its holy sacrament, in part as an unsuccessful attempt to maintain legal status for the use of LSD and other psychedelics for the religion's adherents based on a \"freedom of religion\" argument. \"The Psychedelic Experience\" was the inspiration for John Lennon's song \"Tomorrow Never Knows\" in The Beatles' album \"Revolver\". He published a pamphlet in 1967 called \"Start Your Own Religion\" to encourage just that (see below under \"writings\") and was invited to attend the January 14, 1967 Human Be-In a gathering of 30,000 hippies in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park In speaking to the group, he coined the famous phrase \"Turn on, tune in, drop out\".\n\nThe \"Principia Discordia\" is the founding text of Discordianism written by Greg Hill (Malaclypse the Younger) and Kerry Wendell Thornley (Lord Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst). It was originally published under the title \"Principia Discordia or How The West Was Lost\" in a limited edition of five copies in 1965. The title, literally meaning \"Discordant Principles\", is in keeping with the tendency of Latin to prefer hypotactic grammatical arrangements. In English, one would expect the title to be \"Principles of Discord.\"\n\nThe lasting impact, including unintended consequences, creative output and general legacy of the counterculture era continue to be actively discussed, debated, despised and celebrated.\n\nEven the notions of when the counterculture subsumed the Beat Generation, when it gave way to the successor generation, and what happened in between are open for debate. According to notable UK Underground and counterculture author Barry Miles, \"It seemed to me that the Seventies was when most of the things that people attribute to the sixties really happened: this was the age of extremes, people took more drugs, had longer hair, weirder clothes, had more sex, protested more violently and encountered more opposition from the establishment. It was the era of sex and drugs and rock'n'roll, as Ian Dury said. The countercultural explosion of the 1960s really only involved a few thousand people in the UK and perhaps ten times that in the USA – largely because of opposition to the Vietnam war, whereas in the Seventies the ideas had spread out across the world.\n\nA Columbia University teaching unit on the counterculture era notes: \"Although historians disagree over the influence of the counterculture on American politics and society, most describe the counterculture in similar terms. Virtually all authors—for example, on the right, Robert Bork in \"Slouching Toward Gomorrah: Modern Liberalism and American Decline\" (New York: Regan Books,1996) and, on the left, Todd Gitlin in \"The Sixties: Years of Hope, Days of Rage\" (New York: Bantam Books, 1987)—characterize the counterculture as self-indulgent, childish, irrational, narcissistic, and even dangerous. Even so, many liberal and leftist historians find constructive elements in it, while those on the right tend not to.\"\n\nScreen legend John Wayne equated aspects of 1960s social programs with the rise of the welfare state, \"... I know all about that. In the late Twenties, when I was a sophomore at USC, I was a socialist myself—but not when I left. The average college kid idealistically wishes everybody could have ice cream and cake for every meal. But as he gets older and gives more thought to his and his fellow man's responsibilities, he finds that it can't work out that way—that some people just won't carry their load ... I believe in welfare—a welfare work program. I don't think a fella should be able to sit on his backside and receive welfare. I'd like to know why well-educated idiots keep apologizing for lazy and complaining people who think the world owes them a living. I'd like to know why they make excuses for cowards who spit in the faces of the police and then run behind the judicial sob sisters. I can't understand these people who carry placards to save the life of some criminal, yet have no thought for the innocent victim.\"\n\nFormer liberal Democrat Ronald Reagan, who later became a conservative Governor of California and 40th President of the US, remarked about one group of protesters carrying signs, \"The last bunch of pickets were carrying signs that said 'Make love, not war.' The only trouble was they didn't look capable of doing either.\"\n\nThe \"generation gap\" between the affluent young and their often poverty-scarred parents was a critical component of 1960s culture. In an interview with journalist Gloria Steinem during the 1968 US presidential campaign, soon-to-be First Lady Pat Nixon exposed the generational chasm in worldview between Steinem, 20 years her junior, and herself after Steinem probed Mrs. Nixon as to her youth, role models, and lifestyle. A hardscrabble child of the Great Depression, Pat Nixon told Steinem, \"I never had time to think about things like that, who I wanted to be, or who I admired, or to have ideas. I never had time to dream about being anyone else. I had to work. I haven't just sat back and thought of myself or my ideas or what I wanted to do ... I've kept working. I don't have time to worry about who I admire or who I identify with. I never had it easy. I'm not at all like you ... all those people who had it easy.\"\n\nIn economic terms, it has been contended that the counterculture really only amounted to creating new marketing segments for the \"hip\" crowd.\n\nEven before the counterculture movement reached its peak of influence, the concept of the adoption of socially-responsible policies by establishment corporations was discussed by economist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman (1962): \"Few trends could so thoroughly undermine the very foundation of our free society as the acceptance by corporate officials of a social responsibility other than to make as much money for their stockholders as possible. This is a fundamentally subversive doctrine. If businessmen do have a social responsibility other than making maximum profits for stockholders, how are they to know what it is? Can self-selected private individuals decide what the social interest is?\"\n\nIn the UK, commentator Peter Hitchens identified the counterculture as one of the contributing factors to what he saw as the malaise in British politics in 2009.\nIn 2003, author and former Free Speech activist Greil Marcus was quoted, \"What happened four decades ago is history. It's not just a blip in the history of trends. Whoever shows up at a march against war in Iraq, it always takes place with a memory of the efficacy and joy and gratification of similar protests that took place in years before ... It doesn't matter that there is no counterculture, because counterculture of the past gives people a sense that their own difference matters.\"\n\nWhen asked about the prospects of the counterculture movement moving forward in the digital age, former Grateful Dead lyricist and self-styled \"cyberlibertarian\" John Perry Barlow said, \"I started out as a teenage beatnik and then became a hippie and then became a cyberpunk. And now I'm still a member of the counterculture, but I don't know what to call that. And I'd been inclined to think that that was a good thing, because once the counterculture in America gets a name then the media can coopt it, and the advertising industry can turn it into a marketing foil. But you know, right now I'm not sure that it is a good thing, because we don't have any flag to rally around. Without a name there may be no coherent movement.\"\n\nDuring the era, conservative students objected to the counterculture and found ways to celebrate their conservative ideals by reading books like J. Edgar Hoover's \"A Study of Communism\", joining student organizations like the College Republicans, and organizing Greek events which reinforced gender norms.\n\nFree Speech advocate and social anthropologist Jentri Anders observed that a number of freedoms were endorsed within a countercultural community in which she lived and studied: \"freedom to explore one's potential, freedom to create one's Self, freedom of personal expression, freedom from scheduling, freedom from rigidly defined roles and hierarchical statuses ...\" Additionally, Anders believed some in the counterculture wished to modify children's education so that it didn't discourage, but rather encouraged, \"aesthetic sense, love of nature, passion for music, desire for reflection, or strongly marked independence.\"\n\nIn 2007, Merry Prankster Carolyn \"Mountain Girl\" Garcia commented, \"I see remnants of that movement everywhere. It's sort of like the nuts in Ben and Jerry's ice cream -- it's so thoroughly mixed in, we sort of expect it. The nice thing is that eccentricity is no longer so foreign. We've embraced diversity in a lot of ways in this country. I do think it's done us a tremendous service.\"\n\nThe following people are well known for their involvement in 1960s era counterculture. Some are key incidental or contextual figures, such as Beat Generation figures who also participated directly in the later counterculture era. The primary area(s) of each figure's notability are indicated, per these figures' Wikipedia pages. This section is not intended be exhaustive, but rather a representative cross section of individuals active within the larger movement. Although many of the people listed are known for civil rights activism, some figures whose primary notability was within the realm of the Civil Rights Movement are listed elsewhere. This section is not intended to create associations between any of the listed figures beyond what is documented elsewhere. (see also: List of civil rights leaders; Key figures of the New Left; Timeline of 1960s counterculture). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31812809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31812809", "title": "Cuba Nostalgia", "text": "Cuba Nostalgia\n\nCuba Nostalgia is an annual 3-day festival in Little Havana, a neighbourhood in Miami, Florida, where Cuban-Americans celebrate Cuba before it was taken over by the Castro regime. The festival has also hosted a database to reconnect those who escaped from Cuba as children during Operation Peter Pan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2926767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2926767", "title": "Danmarks Grimmeste Festival", "text": "Danmarks Grimmeste Festival\n\nDanmarks Grimmeste Festival (Denmark's ugliest Festival) is a small music festival, held each summer at a farm in Skjoldhøjkilen, Brabrand; a suburb of Aarhus, Denmark. \n\nDanmarks Grimmeste Festival features a broad range of genres, including rock, pop, electronic, hip hop and punk music. It is based on volunteers and about 5,000 people attended the 2015 festival. The festival started out as a garden party of four friends at the farm in 2004, and has grown continuously. The 2015 event was the 12th festival and lasted three days from 30 July to 1 August.\n\n"}
{"id": "39379960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379960", "title": "De-extinction", "text": "De-extinction\n\nDe-extinction, or resurrection biology, or species revivalism is the process of creating an organism, which is either a member of, or resembles an extinct species, or breeding population of such organisms. Cloning is the most widely proposed method, although selective breeding has also been proposed. Similar techniques have been applied to endangered species.\n\nThere is significant controversy over de-extinction. Critics assert that efforts would be better spent conserving existing species, that the habitat necessary for formerly extinct species to survive is too limited to warrant de-extinction, and that the evolutionary conservation benefits of these operations are questionable.\n\nCloning is the method discussed as an option for bringing back extinct species, by extracting the nucleus from a preserved cell from the extinct species and swapping it into the egg of the nearest living relative. This egg can then be inserted into a relative host. It is important to note that this method can only be used when a preserved cell is available. This means that it is most feasible for recently extinct species.\nAlthough de-extinction efforts have not yet succeeded in producing viable offspring of a previously extinct species, the same process has been applied successfully to endangered species. The banteng is an endangered species that was successfully cloned, and the first to survive for more than a week (the first was a gaur that died two days after being born). Scientists at Advanced Cell Technology in Worcester, Massachusetts, United States extracted DNA from banteng cells kept in the San Diego Zoo's \"Frozen Zoo\" facility, and transferred it into eggs from domestic cattle, a process called somatic cell nuclear transfer. Thirty hybrid embryos were created and sent to Trans Ova Genetics, which implanted the fertilized eggs in domestic cattle. Two were carried to term and delivered by Caesarian section. The first hybrid was born on April 1, 2003, and the second two days later. The second was euthanized, but the first survived and, as of September 2006, remained in good health at the San Diego Zoo.\n\nScientists from the University of Newcastle and the University of New South Wales, including Andrew French, Michael Mahony, Simon Clulow and Mike Archer reported in May 2013 the successful cloning of the extinct frog \"Rheobatrachus silus\" using the process of somatic cell nuclear transfer. The embryos developed for several days but died. In an important development the scientists from Newcastle reported associated technologies that provide a \"proof of concept\" for the proposal that frozen zoos (also referred to as genome banks and seed banks) are an effective mechanism to provide an insurance against species extinction and the loss of population genetic diversity. They connected the circle between de-extinction and the prevention of extinction for threatened animal species. The important advances were the capacity to successfully recover live frozen embryonic cells from animals that produce large yolky eggs (anamniotes such as fishes and amphibians) When this development is combined with somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) it enables the genome to be recovered. The scientists point out that many embryonic cells can be frozen and when combined with frozen sperm storage enables the genetic diversity of populations to be stored. With groups of vertebrates such as the amphibians facing an extinction crisis they propose this as an effective means to prevent extinction while the causes of declines can be identified and remedied. The technical difference between frozen tissue samples commonly used for genetic studies (e.g. phylogenetic reconstruction) and those in a frozen zoo is the use of cryoprotectants and special freezing rates at the time of freezing and thawing.\n\nWith recent, rapid advances in genome sequencing and assembly, and gene editing with CRISPR-Cas9, it may soon be possible to insert relevant genes from extinct species into the genomes of their closest extant relatives. Germ cells may be edited directly, so that the egg and sperm produced by the extant parent species will produce offspring of the extinct species, or somatic cells may be edited and transferred via somatic cell nuclear transfer. Because it is possible to sequence and assemble the genome of extinct organisms from highly degraded tissues, this technique enables scientists to pursue de-extinction in a wider array of species, including those for which no well-preserved remains exist.\n\nWhile the methods needed to carry out genome editing for de-extinction are advancing, there are still several limitations. First, the more degraded and old the tissue from the extinct species is, the more fragmented the resulting DNA will be, making genome assembly more challenging. Additionally, a close relative must be living and able to be reared in captivity for insertion of edited cells. Because a near relative is used as a host for the edited cells, the resulting individuals will not be exactly the same as the extinct species, but may also possess traits of the extant relative.\n\nSelective breeding is the process by which living relatives of the extinct species are identified and specifically mated to reproduce the traits of the extinct species. This method can recreate the traits of an extinct species, but the genome will differ from the original species.\n\nThe aurochs, which became extinct in 1627, could possibly be brought back by taking DNA samples from bone and teeth fragments in museums in order to obtain genetic material to recreate its DNA. Researchers would then compare the DNA to that of modern European cattle to determine which breeds still carry the creature's genes, and then undertake a selective breeding program to reverse the evolutionary process. The intention would be that with every passing generation, the cattle would more closely resemble the ancient aurochs.\n\nThe quagga, a subspecies of zebra which has been extinct since the 1880s, has been revived using selective breeding of zebras. Since the new animal is not genetically identical to the extinct subspecies, the new animal is called the Rau quagga.\n\n\"Chelonoidis elephantopus\", an extinct tortoise, originally discovered on the Galapagos Islands by Charles Darwin, has hopes of being revived through selective breeding. A group of scientists have collected over 1,700 blood samples from tortoises on Isabela Island during an expedition in 2012 having identified 80 tortoises with traces of the extinct species DNA.\n\nOpponents of de-extinction have claimed that efforts and resources used to resurrect extinct species could have been better used trying to conserve endangered species that might themselves become extinct. Featuring in the journal \"Life Sciences, Society and Policy\", a 2014 article claimed that the cost of reviving just a single species could amount to millions of dollars. At the same time, more than 20,000 extant species are currently threatened with extinction.\n\nIn some cases, the negative impacts on extant species could be highly direct. For instance, it is proposed that the Asian elephant would act as a surrogate mother for the woolly mammoth embryo. The Asian elephant is currently endangered, and it could be detrimental to its existence to use the few individuals left to bring back another species.\n\nIt has also been noted that a resurrected species, while being genetically the same as previously living specimens, will not have the same behaviour as its predecessors. The first animal to be brought back will be raised by parents of a different species (the fetus's host), not the one that died out and thus have differing mothering techniques and other behaviors. Another concern is that de-extinction plans have not discussed bringing back parasites or mutualists which co-existed with extinct species, which may have strong effects on the survival and success of resurrected species.\n\nOther scholars have published ethical concerns regarding de-extinction. In \"Conservation Biology\", Robert Sandler argues that introducing extinct species to environments may produce harm to modern species, as invasive species. Issues regarding scientific hubris, human and animal health, and the ecology of sensitive environments have been raised by the scientific community. Further research must be performed regarding de-extinction to investigate advantages and disadvantages to the technology. New technological practices must be examined to prevent environmental hazards.\n\nCounter arguments have been made, however, in regards to the benefits of bringing back extinct species. Harvard geneticist, George Church, gives an example of the positive effects of bringing back the extinct woolly mammoth would have on the environment. He explains that if the newly developed mammoth hybrids were to be placed in areas such as Siberia and Alaska, the outcome may reverse the damage that global warming has caused. He and his fellow researchers predict that mammoths would eat the dead grass allowing the sun to reach the spring grass; their weight would allow them to break through dense, insulating snow in order to let cold air reach the soil; and their characteristic of felling trees would increase the absorption of sunlight. If the theories are proven true, global warming could eventually be lessened.\n\n\"Scientific American\", in an editorial condemning de-extinction, pointed out that the technologies involved could have secondary applications, specifically to help species on the verge of extinction regain their genetic diversity, for example the black-footed ferret or the northern white rhinoceros. It noted, however, that such research \"should be conducted under the mantle of preserving modern biodiversity rather than conjuring extinct species from the grave.\"\n\nIt's been argued that revived species can be utilised as a tool to support other conservation initiatives by acting as a \"flagship species\" - a charismatic organism that generates popular support and funds for conserving entire ecosystems. Along this vein, it is thought that resurrecting the aurochs would boost the European \"rewilding\" movement, in turn, transforming abandoned farmland into wildlife corridors. De-extinction would act as a kind of \"flagship technology' where the excitement stirred from the possibility of seeing an extinct species in the wild strengthens the focus on preserving ecosystems. Similarly, the conservationist Josh Donlan claims that if the passenger pigeon were resurrected, there would inevitably be a legal impetus for the protection of its habitat under the Endangered Species Act.\n\nThe existence of preserved soft tissue remains and DNA of woolly mammoths has led to the idea that the species could be recreated by scientific means. Two methods have been proposed to achieve this. The first is cloning, which would involve removal of the DNA-containing nucleus of the egg cell of a female elephant, and replacement with a nucleus from woolly mammoth tissue. The cell would then be stimulated into dividing, and inserted back into a female elephant. The resulting calf would have the genes of the woolly mammoth, although its fetal environment would be different. To date, even the most intact mammoths have had little usable DNA because of their conditions of preservation. There is not enough to guide the production of an embryo. The second method involves artificially inseminating an elephant egg cell with sperm cells from a frozen woolly mammoth carcass. The resulting offspring would be an elephant–mammoth hybrid, and the process would have to be repeated so more hybrids could be used in breeding. After several generations of cross-breeding these hybrids, an almost pure woolly mammoth would be produced. The fact that sperm cells of modern mammals are potent for 15 years at most after deep-freezing is a hindrance to this method. In one case, an Asian elephant and an African elephant produced a live calf named Motty, but it died of defects at less than two weeks old. In 2008, a Japanese team found usable DNA in the brains of mice that had been frozen for 16 years. They hope to use similar methods to find usable mammoth DNA. In 2011, Japanese scientists announced plans to clone mammoths within six years. As the woolly mammoth genome has been mapped, a complete strand of DNA may be synthesised in the future.\n\nMammoth expert Adrian Lister questions the ethics of such recreation attempts. In addition to the technical problems, he notes that there is not much habitat left that would be suitable for woolly mammoths. Because the species was gregarious, creating a few specimens would not be ideal. He also notes that the time and resources required would be enormous, and that the scientific benefits would be unclear; these resources should instead be used to preserve extant elephant species which are endangered. However, it was reported in March 2014 that blood recovered from a frozen mammoth carcass in 2013 now provides a \"High chance\" of cloning the woolly mammoth, despite previous hindrances. Another way to revive the woolly mammoth would be to migrate genes from the mammoth genome into the genes of its closest living relative, the Asian elephant, to create hybridized animals with the notable adaptations that it had for living in a much colder environment than modern day elephants. This is currently being done by Harvard geneticist George Church, and they have already successfully made changes in the elephant genome with the genes that gave the woolly mammoth its cold-resistant blood, longer hair, and extra layer of fat. A revived woolly mammoth or mammoth-elephant hybrid may find suitable habitat in the tundra and taiga forest ecozones, and may also find refuge in Pleistocene Park, a Pleistocene rewilding experiment by Russian scientist Sergey Zimov to recreate the mammoth steppe, the former habitat of the woolly mammoth. While mammoths are not required for the recreation of the steppe, they would be highly effective in doing so by quickly clearing brush and forest and allowing grasses to colonize the area, a capability that modern arctic megafauna do not have.\n\nThe Pyrenean ibex was one of four original subspecies of Spanish ibex that roamed on the Iberian peninsula. However, while it was abundant during Medieval times, over-hunting in the 19th and 20th centuries led to its demise. In 1999, only a single female named Celia was left alive in Ordesa National Park. Scientists captured her, took a tissue sample from her ear, collared her, then released her back into the wild, where she lived until she was found dead in 2000, having been crushed by a fallen tree. In 2003, scientists used the tissue sample to attempt to clone Celia and resurrect the extinct subspecies. Despite having successfully transferred nuclei from her cells into domestic goat egg cells and impregnating 208 female goats, only one came to term. The baby ibex that was born had a lung defect, and lived for only 7 minutes before suffocating from being incapable of breathing oxygen. Nevertheless, her birth was seen as a triumph and has been considered to have been the first de-extinction. However, in late 2013, scientists announced that they would again attempt to recreate the Pyrenean ibex. A problem to be faced, in addition to the many challenges of reproduction of a mammal by cloning, is that only females can be produced by cloning the female individual Celia, and no males exist for those females to reproduce with. This could potentially be addressed by breeding female clones with the closely related Southeastern Spanish ibex, and gradually creating a hybrid animal that will eventually bear more resemblance to the Pyrenean ibex than the Southeastern Spanish ibex.\n\nThe Aurochs was widespread across Eurasia, North Africa, and the Indian subcontinent during the Pleistocene, but only the European aurochs (\"Bos primigenius primigenius\") survived into historic times. This species is heavily featured in European cave paintings, such as Lascaux and Chauvet cave in France, and was still widespread during the Roman era, in which they were used as fighting animals for entertainment, and were noted by Julius Caesar for their strength and prowess. Following the fall of the Roman empire, however, overhunting of the aurochs by nobility and royalty caused its population to dwindle to a single population in the Jaktorów forest in Poland, where the last wild aurochs, a female, died of natural causes in 1627. However, because the auroch is ancestral to most modern cattle breeds and has close relatives in primitive cattle breeds, it is possible for it (or a superficial ecological replacement) to be brought back through artificial selection. The first attempt at this was by Heinz and Lutz Heck using modern cattle breeds, which resulted in the creation of Heck cattle. This breed has been introduced to nature preserves across Europe; however, it differs strongly from the aurochs in both physical characteristics and behavior, and modern attempts have tried to create an animal that is nearly identical to the aurochs in morphology, behavior, and even genetics. The TaurOs Project aims to recreate the aurochs through selectively breeding primitive cattle breeds over a course of twenty years to create a self-sufficient bovine grazer in herds of at least 150 animals in rewilded nature areas across Europe. This organization is partnered with the organization Rewilding Europe to help restore balance to European nature. A competing project to recreate the aurochs is the Uruz Project by the True Nature Foundation, which aims to recreate the aurochs through a more efficient breeding strategy and through genome editing, in order to decrease the number of generations of breeding needed and the ability to quickly eliminate undesired traits from the new aurochs population. It is hoped that the new aurochs will reinvigorate European nature by restoring its ecological role as a keystone species, and bring back biodiversity that disappeared following the decline of European megafauna, as well as helping to bring new economic opportunities related to European wildlife viewing.\n\nThe Quagga is a subspecies of the plains zebra that was distinct in that it was striped on its face and upper torso, but its rear abdomen was a solid brown. It was native to South Africa, but was wiped out in the wild due to over-hunting for sport, and the last individual died in 1883 in the Amsterdam zoo. However, since it is technically the same species as the surviving plains zebra, it has been argued that the quagga could be revived through artificial selection. The Quagga Project aims to recreate the quagga through the artificial selection of plains zebras, and aims to release these animals onto the western cape once an animal that fully resembles the quagga is achieved, which could have the benefit of eradicating non-native trees. As of 2014, the project had 110 plains zebras in 10 locations for selective breeding, and individuals began to show a reduction in stripes and a browning of the fur, owing to the success of the project. As of 2016, there were 6 rau quaggas that had been produced through selective mating. These animals appear identical to the quagga but likely have a differing genetic code.\nThe Thylacine is native to continental Australia, Tasmania and New Guinea. It is believed to have become extinct in the 20th century. The thylacine had become extremely rare or extinct on the Australian mainland before British settlement of the continent, but it survived on the island of Tasmania along with several other endemic species, including the Tasmanian devil. Intensive hunting encouraged by bounties is generally blamed for its extinction, but other contributing factors may have been disease, the introduction of dogs, and human encroachment into its habitat. Despite its official classification as extinct, sightings are still reported, though none has been conclusively proven. The last known thylacine, named Benjamin, died at the Hobart Zoo, on 7 September 1936. It is believed to have died as the result of neglect—locked out of its sheltered sleeping quarters, it was exposed to a rare occurrence of extreme Tasmanian weather: extreme heat during the day and freezing temperatures at night. National Threatened Species Day has been held annually since 1996 on 7 September in Australia, to commemorate the death of the last officially recorded thylacine. Although there had been a conservation movement pressing for the thylacine's protection since 1901, driven in part by the increasing difficulty in obtaining specimens for overseas collections, political difficulties prevented any form of protection coming into force until 1936.\n\nOfficial protection of the species by the Tasmanian government was introduced on 10 July 1936, 59 days before the last known specimen died in captivity. The thylacine held the status of endangered species until the 1980s. International standards at the time stated that an animal could not be declared extinct until 50 years had passed without a confirmed record. Since no definitive proof of the thylacine's existence in the wild had been obtained for more than 50 years, it met that official criterion and was declared extinct by the International Union for Conservation of Nature in 1982 and by the Tasmanian government in 1986. The species was removed from Appendix I of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in 2013.\n\nThe Australian Museum in Sydney began a cloning project in 1999. The goal was to use genetic material from specimens taken and preserved in the early 20th century to clone new individuals and restore the species from extinction. Several molecular biologists have dismissed the project as a public relations stunt and its chief proponent, Mike Archer, received a 2002 nomination for the Australian Skeptics Bent Spoon Award for \"the perpetrator of the most preposterous piece of paranormal or pseudo-scientific piffle.\" In late 2002, the researchers had some success as they were able to extract replicable DNA from the specimens. On 15 February 2005, the museum announced that it was stopping the project after tests showed the DNA retrieved from the specimens had been too badly degraded to be usable. In May 2005, Archer, the University of New South Wales Dean of Science at the time, former director of the Australian Museum, and evolutionary biologist, announced that the project was being restarted by a group of interested universities and a research institute. The International Thylacine Specimen Database was completed in April 2005, and is the culmination of a four-year research project to catalog and digitally photograph, if possible, all known surviving thylacine specimen material held within museum, university and private collections. The master records are held by the Zoological Society of London. In 2008, researchers Andrew J. Pask and Marilyn B. Renfree from the University of Melbourne and Richard R. Behringer from the University of Texas at Austin reported that they managed to restore functionality of a gene \"Col2A1 enhancer\" obtained from a 108-year-old, alcohol-preserved thylacine pouch young specimen. The genetic material was found working in transgenic mice. The research enhanced hopes of eventually restoring the population of thylacines. That same year, another group of researchers successfully sequenced the complete thylacine mitochondrial genome from two museum specimens. Their results were published in the journal \"Genome Research\" in 2009.\n\nIn December 2017 it was announced in Nature Ecology and Evolution that the full nuclear genome of the Thylacine had been successfully sequenced, marking the completion of the critical first step toward de-extinction that began in 2008 with the extraction of the DNA samples from the preserved pouch specimen. The Thylacine genome was reconstructed by mapping the thylacine genome to that of one of its closest living relatives, the Tasmanian devil, and generating a reference based assembly of the full nuclear genome. Andrew J. Pask from the University of Melbourne has stated that the next step toward de-extinction will be to create a functional genome, which will require extensive research and development, estimating that a full attempt to resurrect the species may be possible as early as 2027.\n\nThe Passenger pigeon numbered in the billions before being wiped out due to commercial hunting and habitat loss. The non-profit Revive & Restore obtained DNA from the passenger pigeon from museum specimens and skins; however, this DNA is degraded because it is so old. For this reason, simple cloning would not be an effective way to perform de-extinction for this species because parts of the genome would be missing. Instead, Revive & Restore focuses on identifying mutations in the DNA that would cause a phenotypic difference between the extinct passenger pigeon and its closest living relative the band-tailed pigeon. In doing this, they can determine how to modify the DNA of the band-tailed pigeon to change the traits to mimic the traits of the passenger pigeon. In this sense, the de-extinct passenger pigeon would not be genetically identical to the extinct passenger pigeon, but it would have the same traits. The de-extinct passenger pigeon hybrid is expected to be ready for captive breeding by 2024 released into the wild by 2030.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27677621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27677621", "title": "Detroit Windsor International Film Festival", "text": "Detroit Windsor International Film Festival\n\nThe Detroit Windsor International Film Festival (DWIFF), launched in 2008, is a publicly attended film festival held each June in the Detroit–Windsor region, with events taking place in both Detroit, Michigan, and Windsor, Ontario. The festival is closely associated with Wayne State University as they incorporated their own pre-existing student film festival into the DWIFF and many of the festivities are held on Wayne State's campus in Midtown Detroit.\n\nLike most film festivals the DWIFF plays host to a variety of films ranging from student films to major Hollywood productions, but it is also known for special events that have been held as a part of the festival since its inception.\n\nModeled after the 48 Hour Film Project contestants are assigned a genre, a character, a prop, and a line of dialogue, and have 48 hours to create a short film containing those elements. The submissions are then judged and given their own screening as a part of the festival.\n\nHeld at Wayne State University the DWIFF Tech Fair provides viewers with a look at emerging technology and a variety of how-to courses on everything from personal electronics to film making.\n\nLaunched in 2001, MovingMedia is Wayne State University's official film festival. Inclusion in the festival is selective, and there is a juried competition with prizes. DWIFF and MovingMedia entered in partnership in 2009. The festival is open to local, national and international students. The festival includes 6 categories:\n- Narrative,\n- Documentary,\n- Music Video,\n- Experimental,\n- Animation\n- and New Media. \nFor the first time in 2012, the festival was open to high school students.\nThe festival usually occurs in June.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57596266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57596266", "title": "Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market", "text": "Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market\n\nThe Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market 2016/0280(COD), also known as the EU Copyright Directive, is a controversial proposed European Union directive intended to ensure \"a well-functioning marketplace for the exploitation of works and other subject-matter... taking into account in particular digital and cross-border uses of protected content\". It extends existing European Union copyright law and is a component of the EU's Digital Single Market project. First introduced by the European Parliament Committee on Legal Affairs on 20June 2018, the directive was approved by the European Parliament on 12September 2018, and is currently passing through formal Trilogue discussions that are expected to conclude in January 2019. If formalised, each of the EU's member countries would then be required to enact laws to support the directive.\n\nThe European Council describe their key goals as protecting press publications, reducing the \"value gap\" between the profits made by internet platforms and content creators, encouraging \"collaboration\" between these two groups, and creating copyright exceptions for text and data mining. The directive's specific proposals include giving press publishers direct copyright over use of their publications by internet platforms such as online news aggregators (Article 11) and requiring websites who primarily host content posted by users to take \"effective and proportionate\" measures to prevent unauthorised postings of copyrighted content or be liable for their users' actions (Article 13).\n\nArticles 11 and 13 have attracted widespread criticism from European and American parties. Article 11 has been criticised as a \"link tax\" which would require websites \"to obtain a license before linking to news stories\", and Article 13 as a \"meme ban\", on the basis that the content-matching technologies employed to meet its requirements cannot identify fair dealing such as parody. Supporters of the directive, largely media groups and publishers, reject these arguments and claim that a disinformation and astroturfing campaign is being carried out by big internet platforms such as Google.\n\nIn November 2018 Google began openly campaigning against the proposal, threatening to shut down YouTube in the EU unless concessions are made.\n\nThe European Union's (EU) first attempt to unify copyrights in light of digital technologies was adopted in 2001 as the Copyright Directive 2001/29/EC. The Directive's major objectives were to harmonise EU legislation with international law (as set by the 1996 World Intellectual Property Organization treaties), to strengthen intellectual property protection, to reduce conflicts in copyright laws between member states, and to assure adequate remuneration to content producers. While some parts of the 2001 Directive were effective, other parts of the directive were not satisfactory for the current digital market long after its implementation. In 2012, the European Commission (EC) announced that they would be reviewing the 2001 Directive and having stakeholder discussions in light of several issues raised with failed copyright proposals from those in the European Commissioner for Internal Market and Services position. The EC took public comments from December 2013 through March 2014, and published its first report on the state of the EU copyright law in July 2014.\n\nIn 2014, Jean-Claude Juncker was elected to the presidency of the European Commission and took office in November 2014. In his campaign position, Juncker saw the potential to improve the EU's financial status by harmonising the various digital marketplaces among member nations to create job opportunities and drive a knowledge-based society. Juncker placed Andrus Ansip as Vice-President for the Digital Single Market within the EC that year, tasked with working with the European Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society (at the time, Günther Oettinger) and other sections within the EC to come up with the necessary legislative steps that would be required to implement a Digital Single Market. Initial plans for the legislative steps and their potential impact were announced by the EC in May 2015. Ansip stated that by the implementation of a Digital Single Market, they could increase the European gross domestic product by as much as per year. The European Parliament, following up on a report on the state of European Copyright from MEP Julia Reda that identified several inadequacies of the 2001 Copyright Directive, affirmed support for the EC's goal of a Digital Single Market as well as supporting an initiative with the EP for similar copyright reform. The EC subsequently began working on establishing the legal framework by the end of 2015.\n\nThe first draft of the proposed Directive from the EC was issued on 14September 2016, Following revisions, the Council of the European Union's Committee of Permanent Representatives (COREPER) approved of the EC's legislative directives on 25 May 2018 and prepared to bring the matter to vote in the EP, to reach a final text, without the support of Germany, Finland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Belgium, or Hungary. The European Parliament Committee on Legal Affairs finalised their amendments to the directive on 20 June 2018 and put them toward the parliament for negotiation.\n\nMembers of the European Parliament (MEPs) voted on 5July 2018 not to proceed to the negotiation stage, but instead to reopen the directive for debate in September 2018. There were 318 votes to re-open the debate, 278 to proceed, and 31 abstentions.\n\nOn 12September 2018, an updated position of the parliament was approved with the final vote being 438in favour and 226against, meaning that trilogue negotiations can start between the European Commission, the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, with an expected conclusion in early 2019. Should the three groups agree to the final language, then the directive will be sent to governments of the 28 member states to be passed as laws within those countries, with each country formalising certain processes as necessary to meet their existing laws.\n\nArticle 3 proposes a copyright exception for text and data mining (TDM) for the purposes of scientific research. The COREPER version has both a mandatory and an optional extension.\n\nDepending on whether it acknowledges the public domain status of facts and information, the TDM exception could increase or decrease restrictions compared to the status quo.\n\nArticle 4 proposes a mandatory exception for the use of copyrighted works as part of \"digital and cross-border teaching activities\". This article, when implemented, would clarify that educational establishments can make non-commercial use of copyrighted works for illustrative purposes.\n\nThere have been worries from the educational sector that the exception proposed in article 4 is too limiting. For example, the sector proposes to broaden the scope of \"educational establishments\" to include cultural heritage institutions. The most debated part of the article is 4(2), under which the exception would not be available if there are \"adequate licenses\" available in the market.\n\nThe COREPER version has changes to reflect the arguments of the education sector, but still includes the debated article 4(2).\n\nArticle 11 extends the 2001 Copyright Directive to grant publishers direct copyright over \"online use of their press publications by information society service providers\". Under current EU law, publishers instead rely on authors assigning copyright to them and must prove rights ownership for each individual work.\n\nThe proposal attaches several new conditions to the right, including expiry after one year and exemptions for either copying an \"insubstantial\" part of a work or for copying it in the course of academic or scientific research. It is derived from the ancillary copyright for press publishers which was introduced in Germany in 2013. Press publishing, \"whose purpose is to inform the general public and which are periodically or regularly updated\", is distinguished from academic and scientific publishing (Recital 33).\n\nIn their explanatory memorandum, the Council describe existing rights enforcement for online use of press publications as \"complex and inefficient\" and draw particular attention toward the use of news articles by \"news aggregators or media monitoring services\" for commercial purposes, and the problems faced by press publishers in licensing their work for such services. A study commissioned by the European Commission, which analysed the implementation of similar laws in Germany and Spain (with the latter having, notably, resulted in discontinuation of Google News in that country), found that newspapers actually benefited from the increased exposure (and in turn, ad revenue from traffic) that news aggregation platforms attracted to their online articles, noting that \"the German and Spanish cases show that the law can create a right\", but that \"market forces have valued this right at a zero price\".\n\nThe version of the directive voted on by European Parliament Committee on Legal Affairs contained explicit exemptions for the act of hyperlinking and \"legitimate private and non-commercial use of press publications by individual users\".\n\nArticle 12a proposes granting sports event organisers copyright over recordings of their events.\n\nArticle 13 replaces the \"mere conduit\" exemption from copyright infringement from for-profit \"online content sharing service providers\" with a new, conditional exemption to liability. These conditions are the implementation of \"effective and proportionate measures\" to \"prevent the availability of specific [unlicensed] works identified by rightsholders\", acting \"expeditiously\" to remove them, and demonstrating that \"best efforts\" have been made to \"prevent their future availability\". The article also extends any licenses granted to content hosts to their users, as long as those users are not acting \"on a commercial basis\".\n\nThe article directs member states to consider the size of the provider, the amount of content uploaded, and the effectiveness of the measures imposed \"in light of technological developments\". It also mandates an appeals process, and requires content hosts to share \"information on the use of content\" with its owners, the lack of which has been a point of contention in the past.\n\nArticle 13 has faced widespread criticism over the possibility that it could create a chilling effect on online expression. Although the article requires only \"best efforts\" from providers, it is widely accepted by critics and proponents alike that in order to meet the requirement of preventing future availability, larger companies would need to implement content matching technology similar to YouTube's Content ID system. Critics emphasise the issue of false positives within such systems, and their inability to account for copyright limitations such as fair dealing (leading, they allege, to a \"meme ban\"). Supporters and third parties point out that YouTube has used Content ID for a decade and yet remains a successful host for content of all kinds. Yet YouTube CEO expressed concerns the new legislation could shut down the ability of millions of people to upload to YouTube.\n\nOther claims from critics include suggestions that all content providers will be forced to use expensive content filters, that only major U.S. technology firms had sufficient resources to develop such systems, and that outsourcing the task has privacy implications.\n\nArticle 13's provisions target commercial web hosts which \"store and give the public access to a large amount of works or other subject-matter uploaded by its users which [they] organise and promote for profit-making purposes\". The proposal makes explicit that this does not include private cloud storage services, non-profit encyclopedias (such as Wikipedia), non-profit educational or scientific repositories, nor a variety of other cases.\n\nThe article's provisions do not apply to all commercial content hosts equally. The proposal explains that \"[small and micro enterprises] should only be expected to expeditiously remove specific unauthorised works and other subject matter upon notification by \", and that \"different measures may be appropriate and proportionate per type of content\" . \"Small\" and \"micro\" are defined in Title I of the Annex to Commission Recommendation 2003/361/EC; , this covers businesses with less than 50employees and less than 10million on their annual turnover or annual balance sheet.\n\nArticle 13b requires websites which \"automatically reproduce or refer to significant amounts of copyright-protected visual works\" to \"conclude fair and balanced licensing agreements with any requesting rightholders\".\n\nArticle 15 aims to allow authors to increase their remuneration in some cases where it is disproportionately low. The proposed articles 14–16, while weaker than systems existing in many member states, would improve the bargaining position of authors and performers.\n\nAssociations of authors had proposed a \"rights reversion mechanism\" which would allow cancelling a copyright transfer agreement proven to be disadvantageous.\n\nOther passages of the proposal attempt to clarify the legal status of certain common activities by libraries and of orphan works.\n\nThe amendments approved by some European Parliament committees would address issues with the public domain and freedom of panorama.\n\nThe directive is supported by publishers, major music labels, mainstream newspapers, and some artists. A campaign organised by the European Grouping of Societies of Authors and Composers collected over 32,000signatures from creators including David Guetta, Ennio Morricone, Jean-Michel Jarre, and the band Air. Other supporters include musicians Paul McCartney and James Blunt, author Philip Pullman (as head of the Society of Authors), the Independent Music Companies Association, and German publisher Axel Springer.\n\nSupport in the European Parliament is led by the directive's rapporteur, Axel Voss, a member of the European Parliament for Germany and a member of the European People's Party group, another proponent of the directive. Political supporters at a national level include the United Kingdom Labour Party. Voss rejects critics' arguments against the directive, and in particular describes talk of censorship as \"unjustified, excessive, objectively wrong and dishonest\". He points out that content filtering technology has been in use on YouTube for a decade without having ever sparked an \"anti-censorship campaign\", and accuses \"big [internet] platforms\" of mounting a \"fake news campaign\". Tom Watson, a member of Parliament of the United Kingdom and the deputy leader of the Labour Party, said, \"we have got to secure for the workers... the full fruits of their industry. Google are trying to prevent that from happening\".\n\nPublishing trade bodies similarly claim that a \"bad-faith\" \"misleading campaign\", also called a \"disinformation campaign\", is being carried out. They specifically name Wikipedia and Google as orchestrators, claiming that Wikipedia and other platforms engaged in \" misleading campaigns ... to influence MEPs\" and pointing out that Google spent lobbying in Europe during 2016, is among the sponsors of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, another leading opponent, and was seen asking its partners to lobby against the reform. The publishers argue that licensed content providers such as Spotify and Netflix are also negatively affected by the current copyright regime, which they say benefits user-driven platforms such as YouTube (owned by Google) and Facebook. They claim reports of spambots flooding MEPs with so many anti-copyright emails that they can no longer carry out their work.\n\nNewspapers in open support of the directive pejoratively label some of those opposed as \"the largest, richest corporate entities in the world\". In an editorial, the Financial Times stated that \"YouTube controls 60per cent of all streaming audio business, but pays only 11per cent of the revenues that artists receive\". Others newspapers focus on Article 11, arguing that the reform is a battle between European media pluralism and monopolistic foreign internet giants. In general, there is agreement among mainstream press sources that internet platforms are lobbying against the bill to support their financial interests.\n\nA group of nine major European press publishers including Agence France-Presse, the Press Association, and the European Alliance of News Agencies issued a letter strongly supporting the proposal, describing it as \"key for the media industry, the consumer’s future access to news, and ultimately a healthy democracy\". In the letter, they cite existing state support for struggling news media and argue that it should instead be provided by the \"internet giants\" which have been \"siphoning off\" advertising revenue.\n\nArticles 11 and 13 of the directive have faced widespread criticism. They are opposed by more than 200 academics from over 25 research centres, authors, journalists, publishers, law scholars, Internet experts, cultural institutions, users, civil rights organisations, lawmakers and EU studies. Creators are divided, with artists of different opinions either supporting or opposing the directive.\n\nOf the European member states, observers believed that Germany, Finland, the Netherlands, Slovenia, Belgium and Hungary had voiced opposition to the directive as introduced in May 2018 with the language for Articles 11 and 13, though the votes themselves are not part of public record. Under European law, a proposal can be blocked by the minority if this minority includes 13 member states or represents more than 35% of the EU's population; the opposing states in May 2018 only amounted to about 25% of the population and thus could not block the Directive. Since then, Italy has issued its statements critical of Articles 11 and 13; Italy's 11% of the EU's population would be sufficient to block any proposal should such a vote happen.\n\nGoogle, the owner of video-sharing website, YouTube, has opposed the directive since its first inception in 2016, when they argued that the proposals would \"turn the internet into a place where everything uploaded to the web must be cleared by lawyers\". In 2018 the company encouraged news publishers in its Digital News Initiative, members of which are eligible for grants from a €150m fund, to lobby MEPs on the proposals. YouTube's chief executive officer, Susan Wojcicki, urged content creators on the platform to take action to oppose the legislation, as it \"poses a threat to both [their] livelihood and [their] ability to share [their] voice with the world\", and stressing that their ContentID system was intended to help assure fair management and payments for copyright holders already without government intervention. Wojcicki later wrote that any company implementing the necessary protocols to meet the directive would be a significant financial burden, and for a company the scale of YouTube, \"the potential liabilities could be so large that no company could take on such a financial risk\".\n\nFacebook is also opposed, arguing that the proposal \"could have serious, unintended consequences for an open and creative internet\".\n\nCampaigners criticise Article 11 as a \"link tax\" which would require website publishers \"to obtain a license before linking to news stories\", and Article 13 as a \"meme ban\", on the basis that the content-matching technologies employed to meet its requirements cannot identify fair dealing such as parody. \n\nOther campaigners, like the Copyright for Creativity coalition, claim the duration of copyright is too long, the proposals are outdated, create no harmonisation and a dysfunctional implementation and enforcement of the rules.\n\nAcademic criticism has instead emphasised concern about the effectiveness of Article 11's impact on the readership of online publication and of Article 13's obligations on service providers that will \"benefit big players\". Individuals who have publicly opposed the law include comedian Stephen Fry; author Neil Gaiman; Tim Berners-Lee, creator of the World Wide Web; Vint Cerf, co-inventor of the Internet protocol suite; and Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia; who raise concerns regarding the costs and effectiveness of upload filters and the negative effects on free speech online. Human Rights Watch and Reporters Without Borders were among signatories of an open letter opposing article 13. SPARC Europe called for the removal of Article 11, arguing that it would \"make the last two decades of news less accessible to researchers and the public, leading to a distortion of the public's knowledge and memory of past events\", and if extended to academic publishing, would \"in effect ask readers to pay publishers for access to works for which authors, institutions or research funders had already paid publishers to make freely accessible to all under 'open access' terms\".\n\nA Change.org petition has gathered more than 1,033,000signatures . A few days before the parliamentary vote, Wikipedia started a campaign against the directive.\n\nWidely critical accounts of the proposal have been published by major newspapers in Austria, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Poland, Spain, and Slovakia.\n\n145organisations from the areas of human and digital rights, media freedom, publishing, libraries, educational institutions, software developers, and Internet service providers signed a letter opposing the proposed legislation on 26 April 2018. Some of those opposed include the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Creative Commons, European Digital Rights, the Max Planck Society, GitHub, various Wikimedia chapters, and the Wikimedia Foundation (the parent organisation of Wikipedia). The Italian Wikipedia, later followed by others including the Spanish, Estonian, Latvian, Polish, French and Portuguese ones, blacked its pages for readers on 3–5 July, whereas, the English Wikipedia added a banner asking the readers in Europe to contact their representatives in the European Parliament.\n\nMembers of the European Parliament who oppose the changes include Julia Reda, Heidi Hautala, and Dan Dalton. Reda describes the efforts behind the law as large media companies trying to force \"platforms and search engines to use their snippets and to pay for them\". Parties that oppose the legislation include the European Green Party and the UK Independence Party (UKIP), with UKIP leader and MEP, Gerard Batten, saying that the proposed directive may \"destroy the capacity for free speech on the internet and social media\". Batten further noted that an international agreement, and not a EU directive, was needed to protect \"the legitimate rights of creators, authors and innovators\", whilst not stifling \"free speech and information dissemination\".\n\nThe proposal is generally supported by academic publishers including the International Association of Scientific, Technical, and Medical Publishers. This group has nevertheless criticised the proposal for excluding scientific publishers from the provisions of Article 11, describing the exclusion as \"unwarranted and potentially discriminatory\".\n\nThe European Council for Doctoral Candidates and Junior Researchers opposes the proposal on the grounds that Article 13's exemption for non-commercial groups does not cover all scientific repositories, and cites the Horizon 2020 project as an example of commercial work in the sector. They also generally agree with the claims of other opponents. The Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition, an open access advocacy group, opposes the proposal in principle.\n\nIn 2012, the European Court of Justice ruled that existing EU law \"must be interpreted as precluding a national court from issuing an injunction against a hosting service provider which requires it to install a system for filtering...with a view to preventing works from being made available to the public in breach of copyright\", arguing that such an injunction \"could potentially undermine freedom of information, since that system might not distinguish adequately between unlawful content and lawful content, with the result that its introduction could lead to the blocking of lawful communications\".\n\nA similar view can be seen in Case C-160/15 \"GS Media BV v Sanoma Media Netherlands BV, Playboy & Britt Geertruida Dekker\" and in Case C-70/10 \"Scarlet Extended SA v SABAM, BEA Video, BEA Music & ISPA\".\n\nThe Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights raised concerns that the proposal was incompatible with the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In a public letter, special rapporteur, David Kaye, argued that the proposal's reluctance to pin down precise obligations on content hosts created \"significant legal uncertainty\" inconsistent with the covenant's requirement that any restrictions on freedom of expression be \"provided by law\". He concluded that this could lead to \"pressure on content sharing providers to err on the side of caution\". Kaye also criticised the lack of \"prior judicial review\" inherent in the system, and the similarly extrajudicial nature of its appeals process.\n\nThe letter also raised concerns regarding the lack of protection for non-profit groups, although such groups had been excluded from the proposal's provisions prior to its publication. The EU was invited to respond within 60days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22460660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22460660", "title": "Doug Clark", "text": "Doug Clark\n\nDouglas Daniel Clark (born March 10, 1948) is an American serial killer. Clark and his accomplice, Carol M. Bundy, were collectively known as the Sunset Strip Killers. They were accused and subsequently convicted of a series of murders in Los Angeles, California.\n\nDoug Clark was the son of Franklin Clark, a Naval Intelligence officer. His family moved frequently during Clark's childhood due to his father's job, and he later claimed to have lived in 37 different countries. In 1958, his father left the Navy for a civilian position as an engineer with the Transport Company of Texas, but the family still moved around. They lived in the Marshall Islands for a time, moved back to San Francisco, California, and then moved again to India. Clark was sent to an exclusive international school in Geneva and later attended Culver Military Academy while his father continued to move around the world. When he graduated in 1967, Clark enlisted in the U.S. Air Force.\n\nClark was eventually discharged from the Air Force and he drifted around for the next decade, often working as a mechanic. He moved to Los Angeles and was employed as a steam plant operator for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, working at the Valley Generating Station, before abruptly quitting. Subsequently, Clark became a boiler operator at the Jergens soap factory in Burbank, but was fired due to a high rate of absence and violent threats he had made against his coworkers. One of the bars he frequented in the area was called Little Nashville, where he met Carol M. Bundy in 1980. He soon moved in with her and learned they shared dark sexual fantasies.\n\nClark started bringing prostitutes back to the couple's apartment to have threesomes. Then, when Clark took an interest in an 11-year-old neighbor, Bundy helped lure the girl into posing for pornographic photographs. Clark quickly escalated from pedophilia, talking about how much he would like to kill a girl during sex. He persuaded Bundy to purchase two automatic pistols for him to use, reportedly seeking to fulfill his fantasy of killing a woman during sex and feeling her vaginal contractions during the death spasms.\n\nOne night, during June 1980, Clark came home and told Bundy about two teenagers, Gina Marano and Cynthia Chandler, whom he had murdered after picking them up on the Sunset Strip. He had ordered them to perform fellatio on him and then shot them both in the head before taking them to a garage and raping their dead bodies. He had then dumped the bodies near the Ventura Freeway, where they were found the next day. An uneasy Bundy phoned the police, admitting to having some knowledge of the murders, but refused to provide any clues as to Clark's identity. Clark told Bundy that, if either of them were apprehended, he would take the blame in the hope that she would be allowed to go free.\n\nTwelve days after the initial murders, Clark killed two prostitutes, Karen Jones and Exxie Wilson. Like before, Clark lured them into the car, shot them, and dumped their bodies in plain sight, but not before removing Wilson's head. Clark took the head back home and stored it in the refrigerator. Bundy, upon seeing it, put make-up on it before Clark used it again for another \"bout of necrophilia.\" Two days later, the couple put the freshly cleaned head in a box and dumped it in an alleyway. Three days later, another victim was found in the woods in the San Fernando Valley. The victim was a runaway named Marnette Comer, who appeared to have been killed three weeks earlier, making it Clark's first known victim.\n\nMeanwhile, Bundy attended country music performances by Jack Murray, her former apartment manager and lover. After one such performance, Bundy conversed with Murray and drunkenly talked about the things she and Clark were doing. Murray was alarmed and implied that he might tell the police. To prevent this from happening, in August 1980, Bundy lured Murray into his van after a show to have sex. Once they were inside, she shot and decapitated him. However, Bundy left various clues behind, including shell casings in the van. Two days later, Bundy bowed to psychological pressure and confessed to her co-workers that she had killed Murray. They called the police and she gave a full confession to her and Clark's crimes.\n\nClark is believed to have murdered an unidentified youth who was discovered on August 26, 1980 in Newhall, California. The victim had been shot in the head and was found wearing only a red sweatshirt. Her face was reconstructed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in efforts to identify her, as her remains were unrecognizable due to skeletonization.\n\nThe murder weapons were found hidden at Clark's work-place upon his arrest. Bundy was charged with two murders: Murray and the unknown victim whose killing she confessed to having been present at. Clark was charged with six murders. At his trial, he acted as his own defense counsel and tried to blame Bundy for everything, claiming he had been manipulated. The jury did not believe him and he was sentenced to death in 1983. He remains on California's death row. Bundy, on the other hand, made a plea bargain and in return for her testimony was sentenced to fifty-two-years-to-life imprisonment. Bundy died in prison from heart failure on December 9, 2003, at the age of 61.\n\nHowever, some doubt has been cast on the nature of Clark's conviction. Criminologist Christopher Berry-Dee has contested that Clark could actually provide alibis for five of the seven murders he was convicted of, and that the presiding judge refused to accept key physical evidence, including a witness and several banking documents that exonerated Clark in Wilson's murder. Bundy's testimony was proven to be highly inconsistent; she claimed at first that Clark had murdered \"Jane Doe 18\" two weeks before her interview on August 11 without her involvement or knowledge. When she was told that Clark had an alibi for that date, she was allowed to change her story, and subsequently provided intricate details on the manner of the murder and location of the body, even though she had initially claimed to know nothing about it. Bundy also admitted that police allowed her to withdraw $3000 from Murray's bank account, although she claimed the police took the money. With an almost total lack of physical evidence, Bundy's testimony formed the entire basis of Clark's conviction. Additionally, Clark's lawyer was drunk during most of the trial, and fell asleep several times while he was being cross-examined. As a result, Clark requested to defend himself. He was denied co-counsel, advisory counsel and the services of a law clerk, with the judge improperly telling him to \"go it alone.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33964306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33964306", "title": "Dubbing (poultry)", "text": "Dubbing (poultry)\n\nDubbing is the procedure of removing the comb, wattles and sometimes earlobes of poultry. Removing the wattles is sometimes called \"dewattling\".\n\nTo perform dubbing, the tissues are first disinfected and, if available, an anesthetic is applied to limit pain. Sterile scissors or dubbing shears are used to cut the tissues off, and a styptic, an astringent chemical that reduces bleeding, is applied. The wounds are left uncovered. Some recommend dubbing should be done on day old chicks whilst others advise waiting until the bird’s comb is more developed.\n\nDubbing is sometimes performed to limit damage caused by injury or frostbite. Dubbing for some breeds has become a tradition and is required for some birds to meet breed-specifications. Other reasons include removing combs which have become so large they prevent the bird from taking food into its mouth or making the head so heavy it sinks into the bird's chest.\nIn the US, the National Chicken Council (2003) listed dubbing of cockerels as one of the acceptable procedures that may cause short-term stress but which are necessary for the long-term welfare of the flock. Dubbing is also performed to prevent injuries from other birds or while being kept in pens.\n\nIn practice, an anesthetic is rarely used during dubbing and as a consequence, the RSPCA Australia is opposed to dubbing on poultry intended to be exhibited at shows, and describes the practice as a cause of pain and distress. The comb and wattles function in thermoregulation; blood circulating from the comb and the wattles helps the bird lose heat during hot weather. The comb is also used in mate-assessment in some poultry species. Dubbing would interfere with both these functions of the comb and wattles.\n\nIn commercial laying hens, those dubbed at hatching exhibit few effects on egg production but the older the birds are when dubbed, the greater the negative effects of dubbing.\n\nIn the UK, the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) concludes \"that removal of the comb offers no welfare advantages to offset the disturbance caused by the procedure and believe the practice should be phased out.\" The Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) writes: \"Removal of the comb offers few, if any, welfare advantages in comparison with the disturbance and pain likely to be caused and should be avoided.\" The Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 (Schedule 3 Amendment) Order 1988 (SI 1988 No. 526) permits only a veterinary surgeon to remove the combs of a domestic fowl which has reached the age of 72 hours.\n\nIn New Zealand, the National Animal Welfare Advisory Committee stated in 2002 they were \"working towards a strategy to prevent this practice.\"\n\nIn 2010, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) reviewed scientific evidence and concluded \"that no mutilation with an effect on welfare as severe as those resulting from cutting off toes or dubbing the comb should be carried out unless justified by evidence for a substantial and unavoidable level of poor welfare in the birds themselves and other birds.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "486459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=486459", "title": "EMachines", "text": "EMachines\n\neMachines was a brand of low-end personal computers. In 2004, it was acquired by Gateway, Inc., which was in turn acquired by Acer Inc. in 2007. The eMachines brand was discontinued in 2013.\n\neMachines was founded in September 1998 by Lap Shun Hui as a joint venture of South Korean companies Korea Data Systems and TriGem. The company sold PCs at prices of $399 or $499, all without a monitor.\n\nBy March 1999, the company was ranked 4th in U.S. computer sales, with a 9.9% market share.\n\nIn August 1999, the company released the eOne, a computer that resembled the iMac, priced at $799, with a $400 rebate for customers who signed a 3-year agreement with CompuServe.\n\nIn September 1999, the company announced plans to launch an internet service provider.\n\nIn November 1999, the company acquired Free-PC, which had previously given away free computers in exchange for advertising.\n\nIn March 2000, at the peak of the dot-com bubble, the company became a public company via an initial public offering, raising $180 million. By that time, the company had sold 2 million computers, but had lost $84.5 million in the previous year on $815 million in sales and a 4% profit margin. Shares fell 8% in their debut. At that time, major shareholders included AOL with a 6.4% stake and Bill T. Gross with a 12.4% stake.\n\nBy May 2001, the stock was trading at 38 cents per share and the company was delisted from the NASDAQ.\n\nIn January 2002, Lap Shun Hui, the founder of the company, acquired the company for $161 million.\n\nIn December 2003, the company released the T6000 desktop, the world's first mass-marketed AMD Athlon 64-based system, retailing at US$1,299. The systems were primarily sold through Best Buy stores, but the PCs were also available online.\n\nIn January 2004, the company was the first to sell notebooks based on the AMD Mobile Athlon 64.\n\nIn March 2004, the company was acquired by Gateway Inc. for 50 million shares of Gateway common stock and $30 million cash. Wayne Inouye, CEO of eMachines, became CEO of Gateway, replacing founder Ted Waitt.\n\nIn October 2007, Acer Inc. acquired Gateway.\n\nIn January 2013, the eMachines brand was discontinued.\n"}
{"id": "3192053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192053", "title": "Environmental criminology", "text": "Environmental criminology\n\nEnvironmental criminology focuses on criminal patterns within particular built environments and analyzes the impacts of these external variables on people's cognitive behavior. It forms a part of criminology's Positivist School in that it applies the scientific method to examine the society that causes crime.\n\nEnvironmental criminology is the study of crime, criminality, and victimization as they relate, first, to particular places, and secondly, to the way that individuals and organizations shape their activities spatially, and in so doing are in turn influenced by place-based or spatial factors. \n\nThe environmental criminology approach was developed in the 1980s by Paul and Patricia Brantingham, putting focus of criminological study on environmental or context factors that can influence criminal activity. These include space (geography), time, law, offender, and target or victim. These five components are a necessary and sufficient condition, for without one, the other four, even together, will not constitute a criminal incident (Brantingham & Brantingham: 1991). Despite the obvious multi-faceted nature of crime, scholars and practitioners often attempt to study them separately. For instance, lawyers and political scientists focus on the legal dimension; sociologists, psychologists and civil rights groups generally look to the offenders and victims, while geographers concentrate upon the location of the event. Environmental criminologists examine the place and the time when the crime happened. They are interested in land usage, traffic patterns and street design, and the daily activities and movements of victims and offenders. Environmental criminologists often use maps to look for crime patterns, for example, using metric topology. (Verma & Lodha: 2002)\n\nThe study of the spatial patterns of crime and criminality has a long history. In the Chicago School, Robert Ezra Park, Ernest Burgess, and other urban sociologists developed the concentric zones model, and considered geographic factors in study of juvenile delinquency. \n\nGeography was also considered in law enforcement, through use of large pin maps to show where crime incidents occurred. Mapping and analysis of crime is now entering a new phase with the use of computerized crime mapping systems by the police and researchers, with environmental criminology theories playing an important part in how crime patterns are understood. Other practical applications of environmental criminology theory include geographic profiling, which is premised on the idea that criminals take into account geographic factors in deciding where to commit crimes. (Bartol and Bartol, 2006)\n\nCrime prevention through environmental design (CPTED) is another practical application, based on the idea that situational factors such as the environment (poor lighting) can make crime more likely to occur at a particular time and place. CPTED measures to reduce the likelihood can include added lighting, making the place less conducive for crime.\n\nConcentrated areas of high level of crime, known as crime hot spots, may have situational factors that help explain why the particular place is a problem. Could be that the place is poorly supervised, has poor \"place management\", has poor lighting or other characteristics. Changing some of those situational factors may help reduce levels of crime in that place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22805462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22805462", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2012", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2012\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2012 was the 57th edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Baku, Azerbaijan, following Ell & Nikki's win at the 2011 contest in Düsseldorf, Germany with the song \"Running Scared\" — marking the first time that the country had won the contest. The contest was held at the newly constructed Baku Crystal Hall, with semi-finals held on 22 and 24 May 2012, followed by the final held on 26 May 2012. Forty-two countries competed in the contest — one less than the record number of 43 set at the previous contest, with Montenegro returning for the first time since 2009, and the withdrawal of Armenia due to security concerns in relation to the ongoing Nagorno-Karabakh conflict with Azerbaijan, and Poland due to financial concerns.\n\nThe contest was won by singer Loreen from Sweden with the song \"Euphoria\" — written by and Peter Boström, the song scored a total of 372 points. Russia finished in second place, with Serbia finishing in third. They were followed by the host country, Azerbaijan, which reached the 4th place. Albania finished 5th, achieving its first top 5 placing. Germany, Italy and Spain were the three members of the \"Big Five\" that managed to rank within the top 10, finishing in 8th, 9th and 10th places respectively.\n\nThe lead-up to the contest was met with political concerns and protests surrounding the host country, including its human rights record and allegations by advocacy groups that Baku was carrying out forced evictions in the construction of the contest's venue, along with objections to the contest's presence by Iranian officials—who felt that the event was anti-Islamic because it was, according to them, a \"gay parade\".\n\nAzerbaijan got the right to host the 2012 edition of the Eurovision Song Contest after winning the previous 2011 edition with the song \"Running Scared\" performed by Ell & Nikki. Baku, the capital and largest city of Azerbaijan, as well as the largest city on the Caspian Sea and of the Caucasus region, was named the host city for the contest, with the venue being the Baku Crystal Hall, built a few months prior to the contest on the city's coastline.\n\nShortly after Azerbaijan's victory at the 2011 edition, officials announced that a new 23,000 seat concert venue was to be built near National Flag Square in Baku, as a potential venue for the event. Three days later, other venue options were revealed by organisers, such as the 37,000-seat Tofiq Bahramov Stadium and the Heydar Aliyev Sports and Exhibition Complex. On 2 August 2011, Alpine Bau Deutschland AG was awarded the contract to construct the Baku Crystal Hall. Preparations for construction began in the area shortly after the announcement. Even though the full cost of the contract was not named, the government allocated 6 million AZN for the construction of the venue.\nOn 8 September 2011, Azad Azerbaijan TV (ATV) reported that Baku Crystal Hall would be the venue of the contest, but no formal confirmation was made at the time by the EBU. On 31 October 2011, Ismayil Omarov, the director general of Azerbaijani national broadcaster İctimai Television announced that a decision on the venue choice would be taken by the steering committee in January 2012. On 25 January 2012, it was confirmed that the Baku Crystal Hall would be the venue of the contest. Even though the venue had an extended capacity of 23,000 people, only 16,000 people were able to attend each show. Tickets for the contest became available online for purchase on 28 February 2012.\n\nIn a meeting of the Eurovision Reference Group on 29 June 2011, it was decided that the televoting system would revert the format used most recently in the 2009 Contest, in which the phone and SMS lines opened for a fifteen-minute window after all songs had been performed, instead of opening before the show starts, which was the system used between 2010 and 2011. The results format of each show remained the same with each country's votes being decided on a 50:50 split between televoting and a national jury. Each participating country had their own national jury, which consisted of five professional members of the music industry.\n\nUnder the official rules released on 24 November 2011, the number of participants in the final was raised to 26, including the host nation, the \"Big Five\", and the ten qualifiers from each semi-final. This was the second time in the Eurovision Song Contest that 26 countries were in the final, the first being the 2003 Contest.\n\nThe draw that determined the semi-final running order was held on 25 January 2012 at the Buta Palace. The participating countries, excluding the automatic finalists (Azerbaijan, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom), were split into six pots, based upon how those countries voted in past contests. From these pots, half (or as close to half as possible) competed in the first semi-final on 22 May 2012. The other half in that particular pot competed in the second semi-final on 24 May 2012. This draw also acted as an approximate running order, in order for the delegations from the countries to know when their rehearsals would commence and determine which semi-final the automatic finalists would be allowed to vote in.\n\nThe design of the contest was built around the motto \"Light your fire!\", inspired by the nickname of Azerbaijan itself, \"Land of Fire\".\n\nEach introductory video postcard began with a shot of the artist and performers, followed with the flag and country name in a handwritten font with a background resembling the yellow, orange and red fire of the 2012 theme art. The postcards consisted of various shots of Azerbaijan, with a caption displaying 'Azerbaijan' and underneath 'Land of ...' (e.g. Land of Abundance; Land of Poetry etc.), which were then followed by the name of a town or geographic feature, showing the landscape and culture of the country. Some postcards focused on the host city of Baku with text changing to 'Baku' and underneath 'City of ...' (e.g. City of Jazz; City of Leisure etc.). The postcards finished with a shot of the Crystal Hall displayed in the colours of the performing country's flag. These postcards acted as a tourism mechanism to present the country to a wider audience.\n\nThe artist, song and number graphics as well as tables and voting graphics were kept the same as those used in 2011, with a slight modification to incorporate the 2012 theme art. The lower points (1-7) were highlighted in red squares while the top points (8, 10, 12) were highlighted in orange squares with each square increasing in size in relation to the point value. Both sets of graphics were designed by London brand design agency Turquoise Branding.\n\nİctimai Television (İTV), which was the EBU member that broadcast the Eurovision Song Contest in Azerbaijan, is one of country's public-service broadcasters. Deputy Minister of Communication and Information Technology of Azerbaijan, Iltimas Mammadov, stated that telecom networks were ready to host the event. Azerbaijan's largest telecommunications operator, Azercell, was chosen as the presenting partner for the contest. On 1 December 2011, İTV named the German production company Brainpool as its official production partner for the contest, citing the quality of its work on the previous year's contest.\n\nOn 17 January 2012, the EBU announced that initially forty-three countries would take part in the 2012 contest. The 57th edition saw the return of Montenegro, who was last represented by Andrea Demirović in 2009. Poland also withdrew from the competition, due to the financial burden of the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship (which Poland co-hosted with Ukraine) and Summer Olympics. Armenia, who had originally planned to participate, later withdrew their application due to security fears of the continuous Nagorno-Karabakh War with Azerbaijan, subsequently reducing the number of participating countries to 42.\n\nFour artists returned in this year's contest. Kaliopi for Macedonia who previously participated in the 1996 contest with the song \"Samo ti\", which placed in 26th position in the pre-qualifying round. Kaliopi would then go on to represent Macedonia once more at the Eurovision Song Contest 2016. \n\nJónsi for Iceland and Željko Joksimović for Serbia both previously participated in 2004.\nJoksimović had represented Serbia and Montenegro in 2004 with the song \"Lane moje\" which placed second in that year, and co-hosted the 2008 Contest with Jovana Janković. \nJónsi performed \"Heaven\" in 2004, which placed 19th. \n\nFor a second consecutive year Jedward participated for Ireland, after their 8th-place finish at the 2011 Contest with the song \"Lipstick\".\n\nMartina Majerle, who represented Slovenia in 2009, returned as a backing vocalist for Slovenia.\n\nThe Finnish entry, \"När jag blundar\", sung by Pernilla Karlsson, was only Finland's second entry in Swedish (after \"Fri?\" by Beat in 1990) and the first entry at all to be sung in Swedish since 1998. Russia's entry, \"Party for Everybody\", sung by Buranovskiye Babushki, was the first entry ever to be performed in Udmurt. The Georgian entry, \"I'm a Joker\" was the first Eurovision entry containing the Georgian language while the Bulgarian song \"Love Unlimited\" had a few words in the Azerbaijani language, both of whom never appeared at the contest before.\nAzerbaijan, Italy and Spain voted in the first semi-final. The EBU allowed the Albanian broadcaster Radio Televizioni Shqiptar (RTSH) to defer transmission and only use jury votes due to a serious bus accident in the country.\nNotes\n\nFrance, Germany and the United Kingdom voted in the second semi-final. Germany requested that they vote in this semi-final. Armenia was drawn to perform in the first half of this semi-final, but later withdrew from the contest due to security reasons.\nNotes\n\nThe EBU and PwC audit company checked and verified the individual jury and televoting results, which were combined to create the overall national vote for the contests. On 18 June 2012, the EBU published the following results.\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the first semifinal:\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the second semifinal:\n\nBelow is a summary of the maximum 12 points each country awarded to another in the final:\nNo country took nul points (receiving 0 points total) when both scores were added together, but France received 0 points at the televoting stage.\n\n\nAzerbaijan's large investment in hosting the Eurovision contest was widely discussed in Western media as an attempt to \"mitigate misgivings about its poor democracy and human rights record\". Elnur Majidli, an activist imprisoned during the Arab Spring-inspired 2011 Azerbaijani protests, was released in an apparent effort to soften Azerbaijan's image ahead of the contest, but many political prisoners remained. Human Rights Watch reported a \"violent crackdown on protesters\" on the eve of the contest, and Amnesty International condemned the \"stern crackdown of freedom of expression, dissent, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), critical journalists, in fact anyone who criticised the Aliyev regime too strongly\" that continued up to the contest.\n\nHuman Rights Watch also criticised the Azerbaijani government and the Baku City Authority for carrying out forced evictions against local residents, in order to allow for the demolition of flats to make way for construction in the neighbourhood where the Baku Crystal Hall was built. The Public Association for Assistance to Free Economy, a transparency and economic rights campaign group, had described the evictions as a \"violation of human rights\", and as having \"no legal authority\". However, in a statement to the BBC, Eurovision said that on a recent visit to Baku they had observed \"that the construction of the concert hall [which] media reports refer to was already well under way on a clean construction site and thus there are no demolitions needed\". The EBU cited the \"apolitical\" nature of the contest and the Azerbaijani government's claim that the construction was not tied to the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nThe festival's winner Loreen met local human rights activists during the contest, the only entrant to do so. She later told reporters, \"Human rights are violated in Azerbaijan every day. One should not be silent about such things.\" An Azerbaijan government spokesman criticized her in response, saying that the contest should not \"be politicised\" and requested the EBU prevented further meetings of a similar nature. Swedish diplomats replied that the EBU, Swedish TV and Loreen had not acted against the competition's rules.\n\nOn 26 May, a flash mob of anti-government protesters were quickly dispersed by police. Activists expressed fears that they would face a crackdown when the international spotlight left Azerbaijan again at the end of the contest. Before submitting the results of the German vote, the presenter from Germany Anke Engelke gave a live statement that alluded to the human rights issues in Azerbaijan, saying: \"Tonight nobody could vote for their own country. But it is good to be able to vote. And it is good to have a choice. Good luck on your journey, Azerbaijan. Europe is watching you.\"\n\nIranian officials objected to Azerbaijan hosting the 2012 Eurovision Song Contest. Iranian clerics Ayatollah Mohammad Mojtahed Shabestari and Ayatollah Ja'far Sobhani condemned Azerbaijan for \"anti-Islamic behaviour\", claiming that Azerbaijan were going to host a gay parade. This led to protests in front of Iranian embassy in Baku, where protesters carried slogans mocking the Iranian leaders. Ali Hasanov, head of the public and political issues department in Azerbaijani President's administration, said that gay parade claims were untrue, and advised Iran not to meddle in Azerbaijan's internal affairs. In response, Iran recalled its ambassador from Baku, while Azerbaijan demanded a formal apology from Iran for its statements in connection with Baku's hosting of the Eurovision Song Contest, and later also recalled its ambassador from Iran.\n\nOn 30 May, the Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan announced that they had thwarted a series of planned terror attacks against the Eurovision Song Contest, among the targets being Baku Crystal Hall, as well as Marriott and Hilton hotels in Baku. On 22 August, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that according to Western intelligence services, Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei personally gave orders to the elite Quds Force unit to launch terrorist attacks against the West and its allies, including Azerbaijan during the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nThe Marcel Bezençon Awards were first handed out during the Eurovision Song Contest 2002 in Tallinn, Estonia honoring \nthe best competing songs in the final. Founded by Christer Björkman (Sweden's representative in the 1992 Eurovision Song Contest and current Head of Delegation for Sweden) and Richard Herrey (member of the Herreys, Eurovision Song Contest 1984 winner from Sweden), the awards were named after the creator of the annual competition, Marcel Bezençon. The awards were divided into three categories; Press Award; Artistic Award; and Composer Award.\n\nOrganisation Générale des Amateurs de l'Eurovision (more commonly known as OGAE) is an international organisation that was founded in 1984 in Savonlinna, Finland by Jari-Pekka Koikkalainen. The organisation consisted of a network of 40 Eurovision Song Contest fan clubs across Europe and beyond, and is a non-governmental, non-political, and non-profit company. In what had become an annual tradition for the OGAE fan clubs, a voting poll was opened allowing members from the respective clubs to vote for their favourite songs of the 2012 contest. Below are the top five overall results, after all the votes had been cast. \n\nThe Barbara Dex Award has been annually awarded by the fan website House of Eurovision since 1997, and is a humorous award given to the worst dressed artist each year in the contest. It is named after the Belgian singer Barbara Dex, who came last in the 1993 contest wearing her own self-designed and often-mocked dress.\n\nThe order in which each country announced their vote was determined in a draw following the jury results from the final dress rehearsal. Similar to the 2011 contest an algorithm was used to add as much excitement as possible. The spokespersons are shown alongside each country.\n\nNotes<br>\nMost countries sent commentators to Baku or commentated from their own country, in order to add insight to the participants and, if necessary, the provision of voting information.\n\nThe commentators of the 42 participating countries were as follows:\nThe commentators of the non-participating countries were:\n\nEurovision Song Contest: Baku 2012 was a compilation album put together by the European Broadcasting Union, and released by Universal Music Group on 3 May 2012. The album featured all the songs from the 2012 contest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2270767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2270767", "title": "Foreign body", "text": "Foreign body\n\nA foreign body (FB) is any object originating outside the body of an organism. In machinery, it can mean any unwanted intruding object.\n\nMost references to foreign bodies involve propulsion through natural orifices into hollow organs.\n\nForeign bodies can be inert or irritating. If they irritate they will cause inflammation and scarring. They can bring infection into the body or acquire infectious agents and protect them from the body's immune defenses. They can obstruct passageways either by their size or by the scarring they cause. Some can be toxic or generate toxic chemicals from reactions with chemicals produced by the body, as is the case with many examples of ingested metal objects.\n\nWith sufficient force (as in firing of bullets), a foreign body can become lodged into nearly any tissue.\n\nOne of the most common locations for a foreign body is the alimentary tract.\n\nIt is possible for foreign bodies to enter the tract from the mouth, or from the rectum.\n\nBoth children and adults experience problems caused by foreign objects getting stuck in their bodies. Young children, in particular, are naturally curious and may intentionally put shiny objects, such as coins or button batteries, into their mouths. They also like to stick things in their ears and up their noses. The effect of a foreign body can be very different. For example, a coin causes local pressure on the tissue but generally, is not a medical emergency to remove. A button battery, which can be a very similar size to a coin, generates hydroxide ions at the anode and causes a chemical burn in 2 hours. An ingested button battery that is stuck in the esophagus is a medical emergency. In 2009, Avolio Luigi and Martucciello Giuseppe showed that although ingested nonmagnetic foreign bodies are likely to be passed spontaneously without consequence, ingested magnets (magnetic toys) may attract each other through children's intestinal walls and cause severe damage, such as pressure necrosis, perforation, intestinal fistulas, volvulus, and obstruction.\n\nIt is possible for a foreign body to enter the airways and cause choking.\n\nIn one study, peanuts were the most common obstruction. In addition to peanuts, hot dogs, and grapes, latex balloons are also a serious choking hazard in children that can result in death. A latex balloon will conform to the shape of the trachea, blocking the airway and making it difficult to expel with the Heimlich maneuver.\n\nForeign body in the bronchi can also present as chronic cough.\n\nAirborne particles can lodge in the eyes of people at any age. These foreign bodies often result in allergies which are either temporary or even turn into a chronic allergy. This is especially evident in the case of dust particles.\n\nIt is also possible for larger objects to lodge in the eye. The most common cause of intraocular foreign bodies is hammering.\n\nForeign bodies in the eye affect about 2 per 1,000 people per year.\n\nSplinters are common foreign bodies in skin. \"Staphylococcus aureus\" infection often causes boils to form around them.\n\nTetanus prophylaxis may be appropriate.\n\nForeign bodies in the peritoneum can include retained surgical instruments after abdominal surgery. Rarely, an intrauterine device can perforate the uterine wall and enter the peritoneum.\n\nForeign bodies in the peritoneum eventually become contained in a foreign body granuloma. In the extremely rare case of retained ectopic pregnancy, this forms a lithopedion\n\nForeign bodies can also become lodged in other locations:\n\nForeign bodies are common in animals, especially young dogs and cats. Dogs will readily eat toys, bones, and any object that either has food on it or retains the odor of food. Unlike humans, dogs are susceptible to gastrointestinal obstruction due to their ability to swallow relatively large objects and pass them through the esophagus. Foreign bodies most commonly become lodged in the stomach because of the inability to pass through the pyloric sphincter, and in the jejunum. Symptoms of gastrointestinal obstruction include vomiting, abdominal pain (aggression), acute infection and depression due to dehydration. Treatment of a foreign body is determined by its severity. The amount of time a foreign body is present, location of the object, degree of obstruction, previous health status of the animal and material the foreign body is made from can all relate to the severity of the condition. Peritonitis results if either the stomach or intestine has ruptured. Foreign bodies in the stomach can sometimes be removed by endoscopic retrieval or if necessary by gastrotomy. Very often a simple instrument to remove foreign bodies without operation endoscopy is the Hartmann Alligator Forceps. The instrument is manufactured from 8 cm to 1 m length. Foreign bodies in the jejunum are removed by enterotomy.\n\nCertain foreign bodies in animals are especially problematic. Bones or objects with sharp edges may cause tearing of the wall of the esophagus, stomach, or small intestine and lead to peritonitis. Pennies swallowed in large numbers may cause zinc poisoning, which in dogs leads to severe gastroenteritis and hemolytic anemia. Linear foreign bodies can especially be dangerous. A linear foreign body is usually a length of string or yarn with a larger object or clump of material at either end. One end is usually lodged in the stomach or proximal small intestine and the other end continues to travel through the intestines. The material becomes tightly stretched and the intestines may \"accordion up\" on themselves or be lacerated by it. This is especially common in cats who may enjoy playing with a ball of string or yarn. Sometimes the linear foreign body anchors in the mouth by catching under the tongue. Pantyhose is a common linear foreign body in dogs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9789555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9789555", "title": "General glut", "text": "General glut\n\nIn macroeconomics, a general glut is an excess of supply in relation to demand, specifically, when there is more production in all fields of production in comparison with what resources are available to consume (purchase) said production.\nThis exhibits itself in a general recession or depression, with high and persistent underutilization of resources, notably unemployment and idle factories.\nThe Great Depression is often cited as an archetypal example of a general glut.\n\nThe term dates to the beginnings of classical economics in the late 18th century, and there is a long-running debate on the existence, causes, and solutions of a general glut. Some classical and neoclassical economists argue that there are no general gluts, advocating a form of Say's law (conventionally but controversially phrased as \"supply creates its own demand\"), and that any idling is due to misallocation of resources \"between\" sectors, not overall, because overproduction in one sector necessitates underproduction in others, as is demonstrable in severe price falls when such alleged 'malinvestment' in gluts clear; unemployment is seen as voluntary, or a transient phenomenon as the economy adjusts. Others cite the frequent and recurrent economic crises of the economic cycle as examples of a general glut, propose various causes and advocate various solutions, most commonly fiscal stimulus (government deficit spending), a view advocated in the 19th and early 20th century by underconsumptionist economists, and in the mid to late 20th and 21st century by Keynesian economics and related schools of economic thought.\n\nOne can distinguish between those who see a general glut (greater supply than demand) as a supply-side issue, calling it \"overproduction\" (excess production), and those who see it as a demand-side issue, calling it \"underconsumption\" (deficient consumption). Some believe that both of these occur, such as Jean Charles Léonard de Sismondi, one of the earliest modern theorists of the economic cycle.\n\nThe general glut problem is identified within the classical political economy of the era of Adam Smith and David Ricardo. The problem is that, as labor becomes specialized, if people want a higher standard of living, they must produce more. However, producing more lowers prices and leads to the need to produce yet more in response. If those who have money choose not to spend it, then it is possible for a national economy to become glutted with all of the goods it produces, and still be producing more in hopes of overcoming the deficit. While Say's Law supposedly dealt with this problem, successive economists came up with new scenarios which could throw an economy out of General equilibrium, or require expansion through conquest, which became termed imperialism.\n\nIn Classical Economics, the chief economic concern of all economists according to Thomas Sowell (On Classical Economics, 2006, pp. 22) was how to generate and sustain stable economic growth on a national level. Each factory-producer's basic concern is of maximizing return on investment through sales. Yet, concern was also expressed that savings (and not spending money by the wealthy classes) or production of the wrong items contrary to market demand would produce a nationwide economic glut (a.k.a. recession/depression) because of the un-purchased (unconsumed) products which result in unemployment, idle factories, low national output, and wealth fleeting from the nation. Some theorized that a general glut is then (in the basic case over time) avoidable and not inevitable. Say's Law says, Since \"savings equals investment\" in a bank or other wise, money is always spent and ultimately reinvested into more or newer production activities which generates demand (both for the production resources and the items produced). Say's Law: Since \"demand is always present,\" then, \"production generates its own demand.\" Then if a glut exists, producers must react to market demand liquidating glut items and produce the items the market desires. Demand will return and any remaining glut will then be distributed by the market. A company/country only needs to keep producing, or produce more wisely, or respond to market conditions with products that meet consumer's demands to avoid a (national recession/depression) glut.\n\nAccording to French economist Jean-Baptiste Say, the concentration of wealth into resources dedicated to savings and re-investment simply adds to the ability of consumption to consume more. And so, he states, there can be no general glut because investment in \"production creates its own demand.\" A producer/country only need liquidate the glut items and redirect its production activities to items the market demands to eliminate the glut and prosperity will return.\n\nThomas Malthus proposed that a glut of production localised in time rather than by industry or field of production would meet the requirement of Say's Law that general gluts cannot exist and yet would constitute just such a general glut. The consequences then are worked out by Malthus, although Simond de Sismondi first proposed this problem before him. Malthus is more famous for his earlier writings which tried to prove the opposite problem, a general over-consumption, as an inevitability to be lived with rather than solved.\n\nKeynesian economics, and underconsumptionism before it, argue that fiscal stimulus in the form of government deficit spending can solve general gluts.\n\nThis is a \"demand\" side theory, rather than the supply-side theory of classical economics; the fundamental ideas are that savings in a recession or depression causes the paradox of thrift (excess saving, or more pejoratively, \"hoarding\"), causing a deficit of effective demand, yielding a general glut. Keynes locates the cause in sticky wages and liquidity preference.\n\nKarl Marx's critique of Malthus started from a position of agreement. Marx's idea of capitalist production, however, is characterized by his concentration on the division of labor and his notion that goods are produced for sale and not for consumption or exchange. In other words, goods are produced simply for the intention of transforming output into money. The possibility of a lack of effective demand, therefore, is held only in the possibility that there might be a time lag between the sale of a commodity (the acquisition of money) and the purchase of another (its disbursement). This possibility, also originally crafted by Sismondi (1819), endorsed the idea that the circularity of transactions was not always complete and immediate. If money is held, Marx contended, even if for a little while, there is a breakdown in the exchange process and a general glut can occur. \n\nFor Marx, since investment is part of aggregate demand, and the stimulus for investment is profitability, accumulation will continue unhindered as far as profitability is high. However, Marx saw that profitability had a tendency to fall, which would lead to a crisis in which insufficient investment generates an insufficiency of demand and a glut of markets. The crisis itself would operate to raise profitability, which would start a new period of accumulation. This would be the mechanism for crisis occurring repeatedly.\n\nSome Post-Keynesian economists see the cause of general gluts in the bursting of credit bubbles, particularly speculative bubbles. In this view, the cause of a general glut is the shift from private sector deficit spending to private sector savings, as in the debt-deflation hypothesis of Irving Fisher and the Financial Instability Hypothesis of Hyman Minsky, and locate the paradox of thrift in paying down debt. The shift from spending more than one earns to spending less than one earns (in the aggregate) causes a sustained drop in effective demand, and hence a general glut.\n\nAustrian economics do not see \"general glut\" as a meaningful way of describing an economy, indeed Austrian Economists do not believe it is possible to have too much of everything. In the Austrian analysis, it is the misallocation of resources that should be avoided. Producing too much of the wrong things, and not enough of the right things, is what Austrians believe to be truly wrong with an economy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23399489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23399489", "title": "H*Commerce: The Business of Hacking You", "text": "H*Commerce: The Business of Hacking You\n\nH*Commerce: The Business of Hacking You is a six-part online documentary film series directed by Seth Gordon. It centers on the struggle between criminal hackers and security experts. Each segment is between five and eight minutes in length. The first was released on the Internet on May 20, 2009.\n\n\"H*Commerce\" stands for \"hacker commerce\", specifically \"the business of making money through the illegal use of technology to compromise personal and business data,\" according to McAfee.\n\nThe main narrative follows the story of Sweet Home, Oregon resident Janella Spears, who falls victim to an elaborate Nigerian 419 scam. Initiated by e-mail, the scammers promise Spears and her family the return of a dead relative's lost fortune. Interested in her family's genealogy and persuaded by a death certificate purported to be her relative's, Spears eventually loses US$440,000.\n\nThe series also features Denver, Colorado-based computer forensics expert Chris Roberts, who provides both counseling and technical support to the Spears family as they deal with the emotional challenges brought about by their mounting debt, as well as the resultant anger and distrust.\n\nRoberts also demonstrates how an open wireless network can provide a criminal with the data necessary to commit identity fraud, among other Internet crimes, and how he can surreptitiously access Bluetooth-enabled devices in surrounding cars on a crowded freeway.\n\nThe series focuses on the growing threat of cybercrime and explores the evolution of computer hacking from phone phreaking to a multibillion-dollar criminal industry that targets individuals with tools such as botnets and DDOS attacks. The series also explores other hacking-related topics such as malware, site scraping and spear phishing. It also focuses on online safety education and safe shopping.\n\nApple cofounder Steve Wozniak makes an appearance as well to talk about his phone phreaking days, as does phreaking pioneer John \"Captain Crunch\" Draper. In the film, Wozniak explains that hackers and phreakers originally maintained a strong ethic, using their techniques not to \"rip people off or make money\" but \"to explore\". Draper observes that the imprisonment of hackers had unintended side-effects: \"Once I got busted, I had to tell everybody else in jail how to do it and then the cat's out of the bag. The next thing you know, the mob has this technology.\"\n\nAccording to McAfee, Americans lost a total of almost $8.5 billion due to Internet-enabled crimes between 2007 and 2008.\n\n\"H*Commerce\" was produced by antivirus software maker McAfee as part of a campaign to educate consumers about online security threats. Gordon, best known for \"Four Christmases\" and \"\", was hired to direct. The series was shot in HD.\n\nThe project was originally conceived as a series of standalone episodes, with each highlighting a different aspect of online crimes, including phishing, bank scraping, and e-mail scams. However, during pre-production research, Gordon identified Spears as an example of how typical Internet users are vulnerable to criminals, and decided to make her the focus of the entire series.\n\nMillam stated:\n\nWe produced the Web-based film to make cybercrime real for people, and to help consumers understand why they need to take precautions. The days when hackers were a small group of thrill-seekers breaking into computers to gain fame and notoriety are behind us. Now, hacking for profit, or what we call H*Commerce, is a global industry.\n\nPromotion for the film, and the site on which it appears, was conducted primarily online through banner ads and trailers as well as a social media and mobile campaign. In New York and San Francisco, McAfee conducted a poster campaign featuring artwork similar to those created by Saul Bass for Alfred Hitchcock by San Francisco Graphic Designer, Nicole Flores.\n\nThe film's website also offers additional resources to learn about cybercrime and online safety, as well as a McAfee's Cybercrime Response Unit, a free service for consumers who believe they have been the victim of a cybercrime.\n\n"}
{"id": "29177117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29177117", "title": "IOOF Opera House", "text": "IOOF Opera House\n\nThe IOOF Opera House in Hampton, Nebraska, United States, is a by building that was built in 1880 and was leased to the International Order of Odd Fellows (IOOF) chapter in 1893. In 1988, when it was nominated for the National Register of Historic Places, it was the only two-story building in the retail business area of Hampton.\n\nIt was deemed significant at the state level in the areas of the performing arts; entertainment/recreation; and social history, as a well-preserved example of an opera house building in Nebraska.\n\nIts decline was partly due to the fact that Aurora, Nebraska, 6 miles away, and Grand Island, Nebraska, 26 miles away, offered more entertainment choices to car-owning residents.\n\nIt is a \"two-part commercial block\" building that served historically as a meeting hall, as a theater, as a specialty store, as a music facility, and as a financial institution. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.\n"}
{"id": "9316047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9316047", "title": "International Tournée of Animation", "text": "International Tournée of Animation\n\nThe International Tournée of Animation was an annual touring program of animated films selected and assembled from films from many countries around the world and which existed from about 1970 to the late 1980s. As released to cinemas, college campuses, and art museums and centers across the United States, a typical Tournée program ran about 105 minutes and consisted of 15 to 24 animated films in the 16mm format, each running from 1 or 2 minutes to 15 or 18 minutes each in length. \n\nAn example of the typical range of countries represented comes from the 12th Tournée in 1978 which contained 24 films (including specially produced opening titles), 10 of which were from US sources, 3 from the National Film Board of Canada, 1 other independently made Canadian film, 2 each from Italy, the Netherlands, and the UK (both from Richard Williams Animation), and 1 each from Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Poland, and Japan. Altogether over twenty annual programs were prepared and presented; the 17th International Tournée of Animation was devoted entirely to the films of the National Film Board of Canada.\n\nAbout 1966, several members of ASIFA-Hollywood (The Los Angeles branch of ASIFA, the International Animated Film Association) decided to put together an international animation program to be shown at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. It was almost impossible to see quality animation in the US at that time. Prescott Wright became active with the group when he joined the American Film Institute in 1969 and, having worked previously in film distribution, he was asked to head the project when it was decided to show the program in other cities. \n\nUnder Wright's guidance, the program became known as the \"International Tournée of Animation\" and, by late 1970, he began to book the program at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, university campuses, and other cultural institutions around the US.\n\nThe animators were offered a generous contract as part of their agreement to enter their films in the Tournée. As producers, Wright and his associates received 50% of the gross, while the remaining 50% was split among the artists. About half of the money going to the animators was split evenly between each filmmaker and the remaining amount was split based the length of each short film. This meant that a very short film got slightly less one which was a minute or two longer. \n\nMany of the films were acquired as a result of Wright's travels to a number of the international animated film festivals sponsored by ASIFA. These included festivals such as the Annecy International Animated Film Festival in France, the Zagreb Festival (which was then in Yugoslavia), the Ottawa International Animated Film Festival in Canada after 1976, and the Hiroshima International Animation Festival in Japan. Until the Iron Curtain collapsed, ASIFA helped bridge the gap between East and West by helping animators from Eastern Europe attend festivals in the West, to visit studios in the Europe and North America, and to show their films in-person. Prescott Wright and filmmakers John Halas along with the husband-and-wife team of John Hubley and Faith Hubley plus many others worked hard to further international relations and to arrange for these screenings in cities with ASIFA chapters.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, the Tournée increased its visibility by being screened in cinemas, initially with the Landmark Theatres chain, but gradually seen in many smaller \"art houses\" across the country. In 1986 Prescott Wright sold the rights to the Tournées to the Expanded Entertainment group in Los Angeles which continued to organize them for several years with Wright's guidance.\n\nOther packages of animated films began to emerge and be distributed from the late 1970s, including \"The Classic Festival of Animation\", \"Spike and Mike's Sick and Twisted Festival of Animation\", and \"The Animated Film Festival\".\n\n"}
{"id": "18718417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18718417", "title": "Italian Open Masters", "text": "Italian Open Masters\n\nThe Italian Open Masters is a kart racing series based in Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "37514283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37514283", "title": "Kathryn Biber", "text": "Kathryn Biber\n\nKatie Biber (born 1978) is a well known American lawyer who served as the general counsel for the 2012 Mitt Romney presidential campaign.\n\nIn 2004, Biber was an associate counsel to the Bush-Cheney presidential campaign.\n\nDuring the 2008 presidential cycle, she was general counsel for Mitt Romney's presidential bid from the start of the campaign until it ended in February 2008. During the 2012 Republican primaries, Biber again worked as general counsel. She was instrumental in handling delegate issues in the intense battle for the Republican presidential nomination. As a key member of the Romney \"inner circle,\" she was also a public face for the Romney campaign on issues such as military voting.\n\nBiber was an associate at the Washington powerhouse lobbying firm Patton Boggs, where she was trained under the well-known Republican attorney Benjamin Ginsberg.\n\nBeginning in 2013, she worked as senior counsel at Airbnb. In August 2015, she became the general counsel of Thumbtack, a local services marketplace backed by Sequoia Capital and Google Capital.\n\nIn 2013, Biber was a signatory to an amicus curiae brief submitted to the Supreme Court in support of same-sex marriage during Hollingsworth v. Perry case. Biber was named as one of Marie Claire's 50 most influential women in America in 2015.\n\nBiber received her B.A. from George Washington University in 2000 and her J.D. from Harvard Law School in 2004. After law school, she was a law clerk for Judge Timothy Tymkovich on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit in Denver, Colorado. She is married and has two young boys.\n"}
{"id": "4783247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4783247", "title": "List of French villages destroyed in World War I", "text": "List of French villages destroyed in World War I\n\nLes villages détruits (the destroyed villages) are in northern France, mostly in the French \"département\" of Meuse.\n\nDuring the First World War, specifically at the time of the Battle of Verdun in 1916, many villages in northern France were destroyed by the fighting. After the war, it was decided that the land previously occupied by the destroyed villages would not be incorporated into other communes, as a testament to these villages which had \"died for France\", as they were declared, and to preserve their memory. While three of the villages were subsequently rebuilt and are governed as normal communes, the other six are entirely unpopulated and are managed by a council of three members, appointed by the prefect of Meuse. All of these communes are located in the Canton of Charny-sur-Meuse in the Arrondissement of Verdun, and are located generally north of the city of Verdun, in the Lorraine region of northeastern France.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348385", "title": "List of years in science", "text": "List of years in science\n\nThe following entries cover events related to science or technology which occurred in the listed year.\n\n1st century in science\n\n2nd century in science\n\n3rd century in science\n\n4th century in science\n\n5th century in science\n\n6th century in science\n\n7th century in science\n\n8th century in science\n\n9th century in science\n\n10th century in science\n\n11th century in science\n\n12th century in science\n\n13th century in science\n\n14th century in science\n\n15th century in science\n\n1500s: 1500 1501 1502 1503 1504 1505 1506 1507 1508 1509<br>\n1510s: 1510 1511 1512 1513 1514 1515 1516 1517 1518 1519<br>\n1520s: 1520 1521 1522 1523 1524 1525 1526 1527 1528 1529<br>\n1530s: 1530 1531 1532 1533 1534 1535 1536 1537 1538 1539<br>\n1540s: 1540 1541 1542 1543 1544 1545 1546 1547 1548 1549<br>\n1550s: 1550 1551 1552 1553 1554 1555 1556 1557 1558 1559<br>\n1560s: 1560 1561 1562 1563 1564 1565 1566 1567 1568 1569<br>\n1570s: 1570 1571 1572 1573 1574 1575 1576 1577 1578 1579<br>\n1580s: 1580 1581 1582 1583 1584 1585 1586 1587 1588 1589<br>\n1590s: 1590 1591 1592 1593 1594 1595 1596 1597 1598 1599\n\n1600s: 1600 1601 1602 1603 1604 1605 1606 1607 1608 1609<br>\n1610s: 1610 1611 1612 1613 1614 1615 1616 1617 1618 1619<br>\n1620s: 1620 1621 1622 1623 1624 1625 1626 1627 1628 1629<br>\n1630s: 1630 1631 1632 1633 1634 1635 1636 1637 1638 1639<br>\n1640s: 1640 1641 1642 1643 1644 1645 1646 1647 1648 1649<br>\n1650s: 1650 1651 1652 1653 1654 1655 1656 1657 1658 1659<br>\n1660s: 1660 1661 1662 1663 1664 1665 1666 1667 1668 1669<br>\n1670s: 1670 1671 1672 1673 1674 1675 1676 1677 1678 1679<br>\n1680s: 1680 1681 1682 1683 1684 1685 1686 1687 1688 1689<br>\n1690s: 1690 1691 1692 1693 1694 1695 1696 1697 1698 1699\n\n1700s: 1700 1701 1702 1703 1704 1705 1706 1707 1708 1709<br>\n1710s: 1710 1711 1712 1713 1714 1715 1716 1717 1718 1719<br>\n1720s: 1720 1721 1722 1723 1724 1725 1726 1727 1728 1729<br>\n1730s: 1730 1731 1732 1733 1734 1735 1736 1737 1738 1739<br>\n1740s: 1740 1741 1742 1743 1744 1745 1746 1747 1748 1749<br>\n1750s: 1750 1751 1752 1753 1754 1755 1756 1757 1758 1759<br>\n1760s: 1760 1761 1762 1763 1764 1765 1766 1767 1768 1769<br>\n1770s: 1770 1771 1772 1773 1774 1775 1776 1777 1778 1779<br>\n1780s: 1780 1781 1782 1783 1784 1785 1786 1787 1788 1789<br>\n1790s: 1790 1791 1792 1793 1794 1795 1796 1797 1798 1799\n\n1800s: 1800 1801 1802 1803 1804 1805 1806 1807 1808 1809<br>\n1810s: 1810 1811 1812 1813 1814 1815 1816 1817 1818 1819<br>\n1820s: 1820 1821 1822 1823 1824 1825 1826 1827 1828 1829<br>\n1830s: 1830 1831 1832 1833 1834 1835 1836 1837 1838 1839<br>\n1840s: 1840 1841 1842 1843 1844 1845 1846 1847 1848 1849<br>\n1850s: 1850 1851 1852 1853 1854 1855 1856 1857 1858 1859<br>\n1860s: 1860 1861 1862 1863 1864 1865 1866 1867 1868 1869<br>\n1870s: 1870 1871 1872 1873 1874 1875 1876 1877 1878 1879<br>\n1880s: 1880 1881 1882 1883 1884 1885 1886 1887 1888 1889<br>\n1890s: 1890 1891 1892 1893 1894 1895 1896 1897 1898 1899\n\n1900s: 1900 1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909<br>\n1910s: 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919<br>\n1920s: 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929<br>\n1930s: 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939<br>\n1940s: 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949<br>\n1950s: 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959<br>\n1960s: 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1969<br>\n1970s: 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979<br>\n1980s: 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989<br>\n1990s: 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999\n\n2000s: 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009<br>\n2010s: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019<br>\n2020s: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 \n\n"}
{"id": "3200603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3200603", "title": "Louis J. Weichmann", "text": "Louis J. Weichmann\n\nLouis J. Weichmann (September 29, 1842 – June 5, 1902) was one of the chief witnesses for the prosecution in the trial of the alleged conspirators involved in the Assassination of Abraham Lincoln. Previously, he had been also a suspect in the conspiracy because of his association with Mary Surratt's family.\n\nWeichmann was born in Baltimore, the son of German immigrants. The family surname was originally Wiechmann, but as in the case of many who emigrated to the United States, the name underwent several phonetic spelling changes. His father Johann was a Lutheran, and his mother Maria was a Catholic. Johann Weichmann was a tailor by trade, and he moved with his wife and their five children first from the vicinity of Baltimore to Washington D.C., and later to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Louis claims to have attended Central High School in the autobiographical work mentioned below. Central High School records show Louis Weichmann was a member of the 36th graduating class. He was admitted July 1856 and left in Sept. 1858 with a Partial Course Diploma. He wrote in his autobiographical work, \"A True History of the Assassination of Abraham Lincoln and of the Conspiracy of 1865,\" that he desired to pursue a career as a pharmacist, but, at the behest of his mother, he reluctantly agreed to study for the Roman Catholic priesthood. At the age of seventeen, he entered the seminary at St. Charles College in Ellicott City, Maryland. There, he met and befriended a fellow seminarian, John Surratt. This friendship was to later have profound consequences for both of them.\n\nIn 1862, a year after the outbreak of the American Civil War, both Weichmann and Surratt left the seminary without becoming priests. Weichmann went to Washington, D.C., where he taught school for two years at St. Matthew's Institute for Boys. After leaving this position in 1864, he became a clerk in the Department of War, headed by Secretary Edwin Stanton. Surratt had in the meantime become a courier and agent for the Confederacy, working out of Union territory. As a result of his earlier friendship with Surratt, Weichmann took lodgings in the boarding house of Surratt's mother, Mary Surratt, in Washington, D.C. This brought him into contact with the major conspirators involved in Abraham Lincoln's assassination. According to Weichmann's testimony at the trial of the conspirators, John Wilkes Booth, David Herold, Lewis Payne, George Atzerodt, John Surratt, and others continually met at Mary Surratt's boarding house prior to the assassination.\n\nWeichmann testified that on the day President Lincoln was shot, April 14, 1865, he accompanied Mary Surratt to her other property in Surrattsville, (now Clinton, Maryland), where she delivered items that Booth later retrieved hours after the assassination. He further testified that Mary Surratt met with Booth no fewer than three times on that fateful day. Samuel Mudd, the doctor who treated Booth's broken leg on the night Lincoln was killed, and claimed to have no knowledge of the conspiracy, was linked by Weichmann's testimony to the events for which he was tried and found guilty as well. Augustus Howell, a blockade runner who worked with John Surratt, claimed during the trial that Weichmann provided the Confederates with classified information obtained by his position at the War Department. He supposedly hoped to obtain a better job from the Confederate government at Richmond in exchange for his services; however, these accusations were never substantiated.\n\nIn his later years Weichmann moved to Anderson, Indiana, where he opened a business school. One of his brothers, a Catholic priest, and two of his sisters had moved and settled there. Because of some lingering doubt as to the truth and motives of his testimony, Weichmann became a controversial and somewhat ostracized figure by many people. That Mary Surratt was the first woman tried and executed for a capital crime by the federal government caused a backlash against him. There also were strong anti-Catholic elements that attempted to link Lincoln's death to a Catholic conspiracy.\n\nPartially because of this, he swore out an affidavit, shortly before his death, reaffirming that all his testimony concerning Abraham Lincoln's assassination was totally and completely true. He died a few days later in Anderson, and is buried there at St. Mary's Cemetery. Despite his using the spelling Weichmann at the conspiracy trial, in all his official correspondence and as the author of his book, the original family spelling of \"Wiechmann\" appears on his tombstone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31064997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31064997", "title": "Love Your Shorts Film Festival", "text": "Love Your Shorts Film Festival\n\nThe Love Your Shorts Film Festival is a film festival held in Sanford, Florida, around Valentine's Day. The Festival screens only short films under 30 minutes in length. Films are divided into different blocks for screening. Audience members at each block vote for their favorite film and winners are announced on the spot. The winning films from each block advance to a final block for a panel of judges to pick the overall festival winner. Winners of each block earn the festival's award, the \"Monroe,\" an original piece of metal artwork named after Sanford's Lake Monroe. At the end of each block a brief Q&A session is conducted between the filmmakers and audience members. The Festival hosts an hour-long moderated filmmakers panel in which movie techniques and filmmaker triumphs and tribulations are discussed.\n\nThe 2011 Love Your Shorts Film Festival was held at the Greater Sanford Regional Chamber of Commerce, which used to be a USO headquarters. The dates of the festival were February 11–13, 2011. There were over 220 movies submitted from 15 countries, of which, 63 were selected for screening.\n\n\nThe 2012 Love Your Shorts Film Festival was held at the historic Ritz Theater / Wayne Densch Performing Arts Center on February 10–12, 2012. The theater was established in 1922 and has a seating capacity of 585. Film submissions were accepted from June 1, 2011 through November 30, 2011 via Withoutabox.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1160527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160527", "title": "NKVD Order No. 00447", "text": "NKVD Order No. 00447\n\nNKVD Order № 00447 of July 30, 1937 () (\"About repression of former kulaks, criminals, and other anti-Soviet elements\") was signed by Nikolai Yezhov and approved by Politburo during the Great Purge. \n\nTo execute this order, numerous NKVD troikas were created on republican and various regional levels (krai and oblast). Investigation was to be performed by operative groups \"in a speedy and simplified way\", the results were to be delivered to troikas for trials.\n\nThe chairman of a troika was the chief of the corresponding territorial subdivision of NKVD (People's Commissar of a republican NKVD, etc.). Usually a troika included the prosecutor of the republic/krai/oblast in question; if not, he or she was allowed to be present at the session of a troika. The third person was usually the Communist Party secretary of the corresponding regional level. The staff of these troikas were personally specified in the Order № 00447.\n\nProtocols of a troika session were passed to the corresponding operative group for executions of sentences. Times and places of executions of death sentences were ordered to be held in secret.\n\nThat same order instructed to classify kulaks and other \"anti-Soviet elements\" into two categories: the First category (Category I) of repressed was subject to death by shooting, the Second category (Category II) was to be sent to GULAG correctional-labor camps. The order also set upper quotas per territory and category of social classes (proletariat, peasant, kulak, bourgeois, others). \n\nFor example, the Byelorussian SSR was estimated to have 2,000 (Cat. I) & 10,000 (Cat. II), a total of 12,000 anti-Soviet social elements. It was specifically stressed that quotas were estimates and could not be exceeded without personal approval of Yezhov. But in practice this approval was easy to obtain, and eventually these initial quotas were exceeded by orders of magnitude. One instance in July 23, 1938, the Omsk NKVD chief named Gorbach requested an increased quota of thousands of more executions, since his men had already fulfilled their plan; the request was approved by Stalin personally, who promoted Gorbach to a larger district. By the autumn of 1937, the pressure to achieve arrests was so great that the NKVD interrogators began picking out names from the telephone directory or preselecting married men with children who, as every agent knew, were the quickest to confess. Within 1939, the system of repression was bursting at the seams—one tenth of the population might be arrested, but not half. \n\nAfter this Order, the terms First/Second Category became standard abbreviations in NKVD documentation for \"the highest measure of punishment\" and \"placing into corrective labor camps\", respectively.\n\nThe article III the Order of Conducting the Operation instructed to start the action for securing the anti-Soviet social elements on August 5, 1937 and finish it in four-month term. \n\nThe implementation was swift. By August 15, 1937, 101,000 were arrested and 14,000 convicted. By the end of 1938, the NKVD had executed 386,798 Soviet citizens to fulfil order 00447.\n"}
{"id": "32772719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32772719", "title": "Nevin Shapiro", "text": "Nevin Shapiro\n\nNevin Karey Shapiro (born April 13, 1969) is a convicted felon who is currently imprisoned for orchestrating a $930 million Ponzi scheme. According to interviews, he engaged in rampant violations of NCAA rules over eight years as a booster for University of Miami athletes. Shapiro allegedly provided football players cash, goods, prostitutes, assorted favors, and purchased a yacht on which sex parties with prostitutes were held. \n\nShapiro was born in Brooklyn, New York to a Jewish family and moved with his family to Miami Beach, Florida at an early age. He graduated in 1986 from Miami Beach Senior High School in the same class as film director Brett Ratner. Shapiro, who is 5 feet, 5 inches tall, was a member of the school's basketball and wrestling teams. A year after he graduated his mother married Richard Armand Adam, who operated RAA International, a real estate loan company. Adam moved the family to Lighthouse Point and bought two yachts. In 1997 Adam was charged in Canada with business fraud, and was accused of stealing $6 million by collecting fees on loans that never materialized. Adam eventually served six years in Canadian prisons.\n\nShapiro subsequently started Capitol Investments USA, which he claimed bought wholesale groceries and shipped them to more expensive markets (although he subsequently said that he never actually sold the groceries). Shapiro's Ponzi scheme was based on attracting investors to Capitol Investments.\n\nHe promised investors they would make 10 to 26 percent commissions every month.\n\nIn 2003, his business grew very quickly through connections with Sherwin Jarol in Chicago, Craig Currie in New Jersey, and Sydney \"Jack\" Williams who had real estate in Naples, Florida, and Indianapolis.\n\nAccording to FBI Special Agent Gregory Yankow in a Federal Criminal Complaint dated April 20, 2010 (Case No. 10-8082), Shapiro \"directed others to create and show to the investors documents fraudulently touting Capitol's profitability. Those documents included: financial statements; profit and loss figures fraudulently representing that Capitol's wholesale grocery business was generating tens of millions of dollars in annual sales; personal and business tax returns for Shapiro and Capitol also fraudulently reflecting those sales; and numerous invoices fraudulently reflecting transactions between Capitol and other companies in the wholesale grocery business.\"\n\nAccording to the Criminal Complaint, Shapiro incurred \"millions of dollars in debts resulting from illegal gambling on sporting events; more than $400,000 for floor seats to the Miami Heat professional basketball team; approximately $26,000 monthly for mortgage payments on his residence in Miami Beach which was recently appraised at approximately $5.3 million; approximately $7,250 monthly for payments on a $1.5 million Riviera yacht; approximately $4,700 monthly for the lease of a Mercedes-Benz automobile;\" and an undisclosed amount \"for a pair of diamond-studded handcuffs, which he gifted to a prominent professional athlete.\" \n\nThe FBI reported that he had diverted $35 million for his personal use from 2005 to 2009. Shapiro allegedly rented his yacht to NBA stars Shaquille O'Neal, Dwyane Wade, and Kevin Garnett and pledged $150,000 to the University of Miami to have his name placed on the student lounge.\n\nThe scheme fell apart in November 2009 during the late-2000s recession, when Chicago real estate investor Sherwin Jarol sued to force him into involuntary bankruptcy after Shapiro had stopped making payments to his investors. More than 60 investors (largely from Naples, Indianapolis, and Chicago), including Barry Alvarez, filed claims (Alvarez had $600,000 in the scheme).\n\nOn April 21, 2010 he was charged in New Jersey with securities fraud and money laundering.\n\nOn September 15, 2010, he pleaded guilty before U.S. District Judge Susan D. Wigenton in Newark, New Jersey in U.S. v. Shapiro, 10-cr-00471 to one count of securities fraud and one count of money laundering. On June 7, 2011, he was sentenced to 20 years in federal prison and ordered to make $82,657,362.29 in restitution. He is currently serving time at Federal Correctional Institution, Butner Low (inmate #61311-050), and is scheduled for release in October, 2027 (as of October, 2013).\n\nThe civil case in Miami is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Shapiro, 10-cv-21281.\n\nIn August 2010 Shapiro told the \"Miami Herald\" that he was writing a book \"The Real U: 2001 to 2010. Inside the Eye of the Hurricane\" in which he promised to tell how Miami had violated NCAA rules affecting more than 100 players. \"Once the players turned pro, they turned their back on me. It made me feel like a used friend,\" he said.\n\nShapiro was reported to have spent $2 million from 2002 to 2010 boosting Miami sports—primarily football—but also including contact with the basketball team under Frank Haith.\n\nIn 2002 he paid $1.5 million for 30 percent in a sports management company called Axcess Sports, which had been started by Michael Huyghue. The agency signed several Hurricanes including Vince Wilfork.\n\nOn August 16, 2011 in a jailhouse interview with Yahoo! Sports writer Charles Robinson (conducted over 100 hours), Shapiro made good on the promise for the revelations exposing a lack of NCAA-mandated institutional oversight at the university which apparently allowed his illegal and unethical behaviors to continue unimpeded for years. Thus far 72 athletes are alleged by Shapiro to have received \"impermissible\" benefits from him between 2002 and 2010. The players include Vince Wilfork, Jon Beason, Antrel Rolle, Devin Hester, Willis McGahee and the late Sean Taylor.\n\nThe school imposed significant penalties on itself, including the suspension of eight football players and removing itself from post-season bowl contention for one year. On October 22, 2013, after two-and-a-half years of investigation, the NCAA announced that the University of Miami football team would be docked three scholarships in each of the next three seasons, a three-year probation, recruiting restrictions, a five-game suspension for the men's basketball coach, and a two-year show-cause order on a total of three former assistant football and basketball coaches. Considering such a long investigation yielded very little incriminating evidence, it was widely viewed that the NCAA investigation and the media attention to the case did not match the relatively minor infractions that were proven to be committed. Before the NCAA penalties were announced, it had been revealed that enforcement staff for the NCAA had paid Shapiro's lawyer $25,000 to call in University of Miami personnel, during an unassociated legal deposition for Shapiro's bankruptcy, and ask a specific list of questions related to the University's scandal. Shapiro's attorney used her subpoena power in the bankruptcy case to question two witnesses who were crucial to the NCAA's case. The NCAA had no subpoena power, and neither witness had any obligation to talk to the association. The backlash from the revelations about the NCAA's activities, coupled with the University's unprecedented self-imposed sanctions, helped the Miami Hurricanes escape additional harsh penalties from the NCAA.\n\nPhotos in the Yahoo article showed him with Kellen Winslow Jr. and Joe Kolchinsky in the VIP section of the Opium Garden Nightclub in 2005; Shapiro with Haith, Joe Kolchinsky and University of Miami President Donna Shalala in 2008 as he donated $50,000 to the basketball program as well as $3 million in other donations to undisclosed recipients; and with Vince Wilfork in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "57151458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57151458", "title": "POLSKA '93 World Philatelic Exhibition", "text": "POLSKA '93 World Philatelic Exhibition\n\nThe POLSKA '93 World Philatelic Exhibition was an international stamp exhibition held 7–16 May 1993 in Poznan, Poland. The exhibition was granted patronage from the Fédération Internationale de Philatélie (FIP).\n\nThe Grand Prix awards went to the following exhibits:\n\nThe Grand Prix d'Honneur went to Raymond Casey (U.K.) for Russian Posts in the Far East.\n\nThe Grand Prix International went to Peng Hian Tay (Singapore) for Burma 1817-54.\n\nThe Grand Prix National went to Maciej Miszczak (Poland) for Polish pre-adhesive and classic stamps (Polskie znaki pocztowe w XVIII i XIX\nwieku).\n\nNadstoga, Zbigniew. \"Światowa Wystawa Filatelistyczna \"Polska'93\" = World Philatelic Exhibition : Poznań 7-16 V 1993\". Poznań: Komitet Organizacyjny ŚWF \"Polska'93\", 1993 62p.\n"}
{"id": "26634980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26634980", "title": "Pelicula", "text": "Pelicula\n\nDue to the Película’s yearly success, the festival made big changes during its eighth season in 2009. The duration of the festival was lengthened, and the number of venues was increased from one to three venues to accommodate more films. The festival’s venues include the Cultural Center of the Philippines (CCP), Greenbelt Cinemas, and the De La Salle- College of Saint Benilde School of Design and Arts.\n\nAside from film screenings, supplementary cultural events were also organized based on the yearly theme of the festival. Photographic exhibits, cinema workshops, music and dance performances add color to the film festival. These events do not only showcase the classical and contemporary Spanish culture to the Filipinos, but they also create a bridge between the Filipino and Spanish cultures. Past events include Oscar F. Orengo's photographic exhibit of portraits of fort-four of the Philippines' greatest film directors, seminars on film directing by Max Lemcke and OScar Cardenas, and performances by Spain's leading vertical dance company called B612, award-winning flamenco guitarist Oscar Herrero, and piano and violin duet named Duo Rivera, just to name a few.\n\nSeason 1 (2002): Bwana, El abuelo, Goya en Burdeos, La ardilla roja, Retrato de mujer con hombre al fondo, Solas, Tesis\n\nSeason 2 (2003): El Bola, En construcción, El último viaje de Robert Rylands, It's for you, La comunidad, Martin (Hache), Silvia Prieto, Sin verguenza.\n\nSeason 3 (2004): 800 Balas, Ana y los otros, Días de fútbol, El caballero Don Quijote, El juego de la silla, En la ciudad, En la ciudad sin limites, El viaje de Carol, Historias minimas, La caja 507, El otro lado de la cama, La primera noche, Smoking_room, Suite Habana.\n\nSeason 4 (2005): Abre los ojos, Astronautas, Barrio, Ferpect crime, Dias contados, El abrazo partido, El Bola, El bosque animado, El juego de la verdad, Extranjeras, Hector, Intacto, La buena estrella, La flaqueza del bolchevique, La ley de Herodes, Los lunes al sol, Mar adentro, Nadie hablará de nosotras cuando hayamos muerto, Noviembre, Planta cuarta, Sodlados de Salamina, Subterra, Take my eyes, Tesis, All about my mother, Torremolinos 73.\n\nSeason 5 (2006): Amor idiota, El abuelo, El calentito, El método, El milagro de candeal, Elsa & Fred, El séptimo día, Frio sol de invierno, Historia de un beso, Iberia, Machuca, \"Ninette\", No sos vos soy yo, Perder es cuestion del método, Piedras, Princesas, Round two, Seres queridos, Tapas, Tiovivo C. 1950, My quick way out, You're the one.\n\nSeason 6 (2007): 7 Virgenes, Azul oscuro casi negro, Cuidad en celo, De profundis, Derecho de familia, El aura, El próximo Oriente, El sueño de una noche de San Juan, Habana Blues, Iluminados por el fuego, Invisibles, La noche de los girasoles, La educación de las hadas, La vida secreta de las palabras, Los últimos de Filipinas, Otros días vendrán, Salvador, Semen, Utopía, Viva Cuba!, You're life in 65\n\nSeason 7 (2008): Bajo las estrellas, Concursante, El pollo, el pez y el cangrejo real, El violín, Fados, Fuera de carta, La Caja, La torre de Suso, Lo mejor de mi, Luz silenciosa, Mataharis, Miguel y William, Nocturna, El Orfanato, Siete mesas de billar francés, The Oxford murders, Todos estamos invitados, Yo soy la Juani.\n\nSeason 8 (2009): El lince perdido, El sueño de una noche de San Juan, La zona, Forasters, Una palabra tuya, Los girasoles ciegos, Casual day, 53 días de Invierno, El truco de Manco, Caótica Ana, La buena nueva, La buena vida, Retorno a Hansala, Chuecatown, No me pidas que te bese porque te besaré, El nido vacio, Solo quiero caminar, Dieta mediterranea, Audience choice, 14 kilómetros, Los cronocrimenes, 3 días, Tamaraw Quest, Medalawna, Lucio, Bucarest, Walai, Ang Pasko ni Intoy, Cine > Sine, Flores de Luna, Syokoy, Imelda, Walking the waking journey, Tapologo, The last journey of Ninoy, Extranjeras, Rabia, El Baño del Papa, Parpados azules, La punta del diablo, Una novia errante, Astronautas, Los amantes del circulo polar, Amanece, que no es poco, Los santos inocentes, Bienvenido, Mr. Marshall, Viridiana, El espíritu de la colmena, Átame, Astronautas.\n\nSeason 9 (2010): Bolívia, Cachimba, Luna de Avellaneda, El cielo abierto, El secreto de sus ojos, Lo que sé de Lola, Garbo: the spy, happyland, Ich Bin Enric Marco, La leyenda del tiempo, La mujer sin piano, , Los condenados, Manolito Gafotas, Nacidas para sufrir, Otilia Rauda, que Se mueren los feos, rencor, tres días con la familia, Celda 211, Desierto adentro, La teta asustada, Pantaleón y las visitadoras\n\nSeason 10 (2011) El secreto de sus ojos, Mar adentro, Fuera de carta, Lope, La zona, La vergüenza, Mal día para pescar, Buried, Mil cretinos, La vida secreta de las palabras, En la ciudad sin límites, El gran Vázquez, Gordos, Primos, Todas las canciones hablan de mí, Bíutiful, Yo también, Elsa y Fred, También la lluvia, Amador, Viridiana, Chico y Rita, Morirse está en hebreo, Buenas noches España, Habitación en Roma, Didí Hollywood\n\nSeason 11 (2012) Donde el olor del mar no llega, Un cuento chino, Dos hermanos, Arrugas, No habrá paz para los malvados, Grupo 7, After, Mientras duermes, Katmandú, Madrid, 1987, Lo mejor de Eva, Pa negre, La chispa de la vida, 5 metros cuadrados, 18 comidas, 80 egunean, María y yo, Hollywood Talkies, Jacques Leonard, el payo Chac.\n\nSeason 12 (2013) Blancanieves, El artista y la modelo, La maleta mexicana, De tu ventana a la mía, Colgados de un sueño, ¡Atraco!, O Apostolo, A puerta fría, Promoción fantasma, Extraterrestre, Copito de nieve, Días de vinilo, Samurai, Días de pesca en Patagonia, La última película, Aquel no era yo, Cortos de Zamboanga, Cortos valencianos.\n\nSeason 13 (2014) 10.000 noches en ninguna parte, 2 francos, 40 pesetas, Azul intangible, Bertsolari, Bypass, Caníbal, Espantapájaros, Implacable, La cebra, La gran familia española, La revolución de Juan Escopeta, La vida inesperada, Las aventuras de Tadeo Jones, \"Las brujas de Zugarramurdi\", Madrid, 1987, Mapa, Soldados de Salamina, Todas las mujeres, Vivir es fácil con los ojos cerrados, A political story, Cólera, Democracia, Hotzanak, for your own safety, Zela Trovke.\n\nSeason 14 (2015) Stockholm, Negociador, La isla mínima, \"\", Tres bodas de más, La plaga, Loreak, Hermosa juventud, Ocho apellidos vascos, Ártico, El árbol magnético, Todos están muertos, Cortos de España, Aquellas palabras , De aliados a masacrados, Relatos salvajes, Gente en sitios, Milagro en Praga, El resto del mundo.\n\nThe Película Choice Award was created in 2004.\n\nThese are the awarded films in the previous editions:\n\n2004 Audience choice award \"En la ciudad sin límites\" (Antonio Hernández, 2003)\n\n2005 Audience choice award \"Mar adentro\" (Alejandro Amenábar, 2004)\n\n2006 Audience choice award \"Elsa y Fred\" (Marcos Carnevale, 2005)\n\n2007 Audience choice award \"La vida secreta de las palabras\" (Isabel Coixet, 2005)\n\n2008 Audience choice award \"Fuera de carta\" (Nacho G. Velilla, 2008)\n\n2009 Audience choice award \"La zona\" (Rodrigo Plá, 2007)\n\n2010 Audience choice award \"El secreto de sus ojos\" (Juan José Campanella, 2009)\n\n2011 Audience choice award \"También la lluvia\" (Icíar Bollaín, 2010)\n\n2012 Audience choice award \"Un cuento chino\" (Sebastián Borensztein, 2011)\n\n2013 Audience choice award \"\" (Gabriel Nesci, 2012)\n\n2014 Audience choice award \"La gran familia española\" (Daniel Sánchez Arévalo, 2013)\n\n2015 Audience choice award Relatos salvajes (Damián Szifron, 2014)\n\n"}
{"id": "51777193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51777193", "title": "Pencil fighting", "text": "Pencil fighting\n\nPencil fighting involves two players trying to break one-another's pencils using pencils. The World Extreme Pencil Fighting League is an organization of pencil fighters based in Seattle, Washington.\n\nPencil fighting typically involves two players attempting to break one-another's pencils. Players take turns in which one player holds their pencil horizontally with both hands while the other player flicks their pencil at it in attempts to break it. The first player to break the other's pencil is the winner. Foul plays have been suggested, such as intentionally hitting a player on the fingers, dropping the pencil, and missing the pencil when striking. When a foul has occurred, the offender may be required to allow a free extra strike against their pencil.\n\nSome risk of eye injury exists in pencil fighting, because pieces of wood and graphite inside the pencil can be launched when pencils are struck.\n\nIt has been suggested that pencil fighting became popular toward the end of the 1970s, played by students despite the disapproval of school educators, i.e., \"the teachers who would commonly issue two pencils to each student at the beginning of the school year and later only as required.\"\n\nPencil fighting in the late 1970s was also and more commonly known as \"Pencil Break\" or \"Pencils.\" Elementary, Middle (Junior High) School, and High School students played the game often. It was such a beloved activity, students would either purchase, seek out, and or trade certain brands of pencils, known for their design and durability characteristics, e.g., strength of the wood, ability to bend backwards without breaking, so as to develop the greatest amount of force to break one's opponent's pencil in but a single strike! Often, students would simply walk up to classmates, hold one end of their pencil with both hands in a state of readiness. The other student almost instinctively knew and understood the meaning and request to play on sight. Students held word of mouth competitions before, after, and even during class in some instances; often near the back of a classroom, as students were required to line-up in order to use one of two industrial strength and wall mounted pencil sharpeners for regular pencil sharpening before, during, and after classes. Students sometimes would gather in small and even large circles and groups to play. Often, most one-on-one competitions were held on the school grounds, i.e., classroom hallways, in the school bathroom, in the school yard, next to and by the side or back of a class, while riding the school bus to and from school, and while on the way to events, trips, etc. Games commonly lasted less than half of one minute.\n\nPencil break was enjoyed the most when the opponent's pencil was either a new or freshly sharpened. However, the game was often played twice or several times, based on the final length left after a loss. Advanced or Expert level players were able to break a pencil of any size brought before them. A standard No. 2 pencil could be realistically broken four times by an expert player. Novice players required several strikes before their opponents pencil was broken if ever. Some players removed the rubber eraser, forming the metal clamp into an edged point that was able to concentrate the cutting, sawing, and breaking power for each strike. Other players might chew on their pencil, compressing the wood so as to make it tougher to break a pencil. In most cases however, superior technique and method over the type of pencil and any upgrade was the preferred approach to winning consistently. It was common for an advanced player's pencil to last over several games before his pencil broke.\n\nThe World Extreme Pencil Fighting League (WXPFL) is an organization and competitive league of pencil fighters based in Seattle, Washington that engages in pencil fighting competitions. WXPFL events include wrestling-style theatrics, and are held monthly at a Seattle bar named Re-Bar. Number 2 style pencils are used, and the referee is the only person allowed to distribute the pencils. The events are monitored by referees, and penalties exist for delaying the event, pencil tilting and dropping a pencil. Those called on a foul can have their pencil struck with any sized pencil, as long as \"it’s made of wood and you can actually write with it\". The competition includes a champion who holds a championship belt.\n\n"}
{"id": "9355725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9355725", "title": "Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Fiesta", "text": "Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Fiesta\n\nThe Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Fiesta is an annual event that occurs between January and February in Clark Freeport Zone, Angeles City, Pampanga. It features multicolored hot air balloons with more than a hundred balloon pilots from around the world. This four-day hot air balloon event is the biggest and longest-running aviation sports event in the Philippines.\n\nThe festival also features a number of events in skydiving, flag jumps, micro light and rocketry demonstrations, small plane fly-bys and fly-ins, remote-control airplane and helicopter flying exhibitions, freestyle aerobatics, precision maneuvers, light airplane balloon bursting, ultra-light flying formation and flour bomb dropping, kite-making and choreographed kite-flying, hi-start launch gliding, control-line aircraft flying, pylon racing, banner towing, aero-modeling symposium and races between ultra lights and motorcycles. An estimated 100,000 visitors locally and from around the world come in to see this event.\n\nIn 1994, three years after the devastating effects of the Mount Pinatubo eruption, Tourism Secretary Mina Gabor, together with Korean businessman and hot-air balloon pilot, Mr. Sung Kee Paik, and British Airways General Manager, Mr. John Emery, and the German aviation enthusiast Max Motschmann engineered the first ever Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Fiesta to help jumpstart the local economy and spirit of the Central Luzon region with the commitment of developing hot air ballooning as an aviation sport in the country and making the Philippines one of the leading sports aviation and travel destinations in the Asia Pacific region. The 1994 event originally organized by the Department of Tourism (DOT), the Hot Air Balloon Club, the Clark Development Corporation and British Airways initially began with 21 balloon pilots from 10 countries and one entry from the Philippines, represented by Capt. Joy Roa, the only registered Filipino balloon pilot at that time. The success of the festival in 1994 brought about an increase in the number of participants in 1995 to 27 balloons including a basketless one-man balloon and two entries from the Philippines. The 1995 festival also saw the introduction of ultra light planes to the events.\n\nBy 1996 responsibility of the event was transferred from the Department of Tourism to Air Ads, Inc. under the watchful eyes of Captain Joy Roa who is also an avid licensed balloon pilot. Between 1996 and 1998, the growing popularity of the festival was expanded to include other aero-sports activities such as sky diving, paragliding, motorized hang gliding, remote controlled model aircraft (aero modelers), and kite flying. Aerobatic stunts and precision maneuvers courtesy of the Blue Diamonds and later the Red Aces of the Philippine Air Force became a regular attraction of the festival.\n\nFinancial difficulties in 1999 led to the cancellation of the festival, but saw a resurgence in 2000 with 12 balloons and 18 light planes from Thailand, Japan and Singapore, all participating in an air rally which has become a regular component of the festivities. 2003 saw a change in the traditional ballooning format. Specially designed balloons in the shape of a flying newspaper from Korea and a large dog from Japan made their debut over the Pampanga skyline. Balloon participation from Malaysia, Korea, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Czechoslovakia, and the Netherlands drew crowds from around the world.\n\nCurrently, the Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Festival continues to be a popular international sports aviation event. The 2006 festival featured 30 multicolored hot air balloons and more than a hundred balloon pilots from Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines. It also drew an approximated 60,000 visitors to the event.\n\nThe 21st Philippine International Hot Air Balloon Fiesta showcased 30 colorful balloons from USA, Canada, Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Hungary, Turkey, China, Japan, Thailand, and the Philippines. The award-winning Twinz Aerobatic Paragliders as well as former members of the British Red Devils also participated in the event. The Fiesta's main theme was \"Exchange of Cultures,\" a tribute to aviation's contributions in \"making the world smaller.\" Apart from aviation enthusiasts, the Fiesta also invited artists and performers from around the world - including Turkish folk dancers, carpet makers and ceramic masters; international singers from South Africa, Samoa, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe; and the Amganad Music and Dance Ensemble from Banaue, Philippines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8839677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8839677", "title": "Reduce Impaired Driving Everywhere", "text": "Reduce Impaired Driving Everywhere\n\nReduce Impaired Driving Everywhere or RIDE is a sobriety testing program used by police in Ontario, Canada. The program began in 1977 as Reduce Impaired Driving in Etobicoke and the success of the program led to the expansion across the province of Ontario.\n\nThe roadside spot-checks usually appear during the holidays to catch drunk drivers, but the program lasts year round. Volunteers are also enlisted to participate in the program. Officers from participating police forces are usually members of traffic and auxiliary units.\n\nPolice roadside spot-checks are set up on major roadways and off-ramps of highways. All drivers are stopped and interrogated upon reaching the checkpoint. If a driver is suspected to be intoxicated, the officer may request a roadside breathalyzer test. Drivers are also provided a pamphlet detailing the program.\n\nSpot checks usually consist of several cruisers and pylons to direct cars into the area. Trailers are used to conduct breathalyzer testing. Tow trucks may be on standby to remove any vehicles with drivers caught drunk.\n\nIn 1985, the program was challenged as a violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the random roadside checks do not violate the \"Charter\" as long as they are carried out for the purposes of the R.I.D.E. program only. Police officers may not use R.I.D.E. stops as the basis for any other investigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41679258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41679258", "title": "Sakhi for South Asian Women", "text": "Sakhi for South Asian Women\n\nSakhi for South Asian Women is an anti-domestic violence organization that works with the South Asian community in the New York metropolitan area.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1989 by a group of five South Asian women from diverse professional fields such as banking, film, law, and public health. Sakhi, which means \"woman friend,\" was created to enable women to address domestic violence within the South Asian community.\n\nThe stated mission of Sakhi for South Asian Women is to end domestic violence against women by uniting survivors, communities, and institutions. Sakhi uses an integrated approach that combines support and empowerment through service delivery, community engagement, media advocacy, and policy initiatives.\n\nSince its inception in 1989, Sakhi has served as a safe conduit to provide South Asian women with ongoing emotional support, culturally-sensitive and language-specific assistance in order to face the violence in their lives. Sakhi has also been at the forefront of the effort to end domestic violence through community engagement, education, and outreach as well as broad policy and institutional change.\n\nIn the direct services arena, Sakhi offers:\n\nIn the area of community engagement and media advocacy, Sakhi undertakes:\n\nIn the sphere of policy advocacy, Sakhi conducts:\n"}
{"id": "53454454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53454454", "title": "Shinee World 2017", "text": "Shinee World 2017\n\nShinee World 2017 (promoted as SHINee Concert \"SHINee WORLD 2017～FIVE～\") was the fifth Japan nationwide concert tour by South Korean boy band Shinee, to promote their fifth Japanese studio album Five. The initial arena tour kicked off in Fukui on January 28, 2017 and ended in Tokyo on April 30, 2017, with a total of 25 concerts in 10 cities which attracted a total of 338,238 fans. On June 22, 2017, concerts for SHINee WORLD 2017 ~FIVE~ Special Edition in Tokyo Dome and Osaka Dome were announced on SHINee's official Japanese website for September 2 - 3 and September 23 - 24, respectively. With the addition of the dome concerts, the tour wrapped up with a total of 29 shows and a total attendance of 539,000 This was their last tour with member Jonghyun who died on December 18, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "15272722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15272722", "title": "Silent Storm (film)", "text": "Silent Storm (film)\n\nSilent Storm is a 2003 Australian documentary film written and directed by Peter Butt.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1978, scientists secretly removed bone samples from over 21,000 dead Australians as they searched for evidence of the deadly poison, Strontium 90 - a by-product of nuclear testing. Silent Storm reveals the story behind this astonishing case of officially sanctioned 'body-snatching'. Set against a backdrop of the Cold War, the saga follows celebrated scientist, Hedley Marston, as he attempts to blow the whistle on radioactive contamination and challenge official claims that British atomic tests posed no threat to the Australian people. Marston's findings are not only disputed, he is targeted as 'a scientist of counter-espionage interest'.\n\n"}
{"id": "34573944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34573944", "title": "Sobibór trial", "text": "Sobibór trial\n\nThe Sobibór trial was a judicial trial directly concerning the Sobibór extermination camp personnel. The trial was held in 1965–66 in Hagen, West Germany. It was one of a series of similar war crime trials held during the early 1960s, such as the Jerusalem Adolf Eichmann trial of 1961 and the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials of 1963–65, as a result of which the general public came to realize the extent of the crimes that some twenty years earlier had been perpetrated in occupied Poland by Nazi bureaucrats and their executioners. In the same and in subsequent years, separate trials dealt with personnel of the Belzec (1963–65), Treblinka (1964–65), and Majdanek (1975–81) extermination camps.\n\nInvestigator Dietrich Zeug from Ludvigsburg, in charge of preparing the documents to be put before the court at the trial, studied old files and in the process stumbled upon a vast selection of individuals never before investigated. Some key \"SS\" officers who had served at Sobibór were tried over a decade earlier, such as \"SS-Oberscharführer\" Hubert Gomerski acquitted in the euthanasia trials of 1947, but sentenced again in 1950 and serving at Butzbach. Zeug asked the authorities for help, and by spring 1960 had identified three dozen men directly involved in Action T4 and in Operation Reinhard. He contacted the World Jewish Congress and Yad Vashem in the following months, and on 23 June 1960 filed his first letter of recommendations at the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations, requiring judicial action against 19 suspects. Ludwigsburg officials learned for the first time about the whereabouts of some of the suspects in August 1960. Kurt Bolender lived under a false name in Hamburg and was identified in 1961. Karl Frenzel was caught in March 1962 in Göttingen. Heinrich Unverhau was arrested along with Franz Wolf no earlier than in March 1964. Meanwhile, Jerusalem named twenty-two Sobibor survivors living in Israel, and the list of suspects grew into one hundred names. At this point the Federal Republic had determined that Zeug's reports were politically sensitive and classified them as secret.\n\nThe German court in Hagen initiated proceedings on 6 September 1965 against twelve former members of the \"SS\" camp personnel (about a quarter of the \"SS\" men employed at Sobibór ), accusing them of crimes against humanity. The verdicts were pronounced on 20 December 1966, based on evidence provided by German historian, Professor Wolfgang Scheffler as well as Dutch historian and Holocaust survivor Jules Schelvis among others.\n\nIn the 1965–66 trial, the defendants claimed that once assigned to serve at a death camp, they saw no possibility to refuse their orders, citing the statement made by Christian Wirth to the personnel at Sobibór (quote): \"If you do not like it here, you can leave, but under the earth, not over it.\" However, \"SS-Untersturmführer\" Johann Klier, who asked to be transferred from Sobibór on moral grounds was not punished but allowed to leave, which proved that the contrary was true.\nOne of the worst murderers in Sobibór was \"SS-Oberscharführer\" Erich Bauer, the gas chamber \"meister\". He was tried 15 years earlier, recognised on the streets of Berlin by survivor Samuel Lerer in 1949. On 8 May 1950 Bauer was sentenced to death by a District Court in Berlin-Moabit, but this was commuted to life in prison, as the death penalty had been abolished in West Germany. Bauer died in the Tegel prison in Berlin in 1980.\n\nA few of the Ukrainian guards who served at Sobibór were brought to trial in the Soviet Union, including B. Bielakow, M. Matwijenko, I. Nikifor, W. Podienko, F. Tichonowski, Emanuel Schultz, and J. Zajcew. They were convicted for treason against the state, found guilty of war-crimes and executed. In April 1963, at a court in Kiev where Alexander Pechersky was the chief prosecution witness, ten former Ukrainian guards were found guilty and executed. One was sentenced to 15 years in prison.\n\nA third Soviet trial was held in Kiev in June 1965, where three former death camp guards from Sobibór and Belzec, known as the Trawniki men, were executed by a firing squad.\n\n"}
{"id": "50249458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50249458", "title": "The Grange Festival", "text": "The Grange Festival\n\nThe Grange Festival is a summer opera festival established to continue performances at The Grange opera house in Hampshire. The first season started on 7 June 2017 and featured operas by Monteverdi, Bizet and Britten.\n\nOpera at The Grange, Northington was established in 1998 by the founders of Grange Park Opera, Wasfi Kani and Michael Moody. A new, award-winning opera house was built at the site in 2002. After seventeen years, Grange Park Opera decided to relocate at the end of the 2016 season, following a dispute over a new lease. The Grange Festival was formed in January 2016 with Michael Chance CBE, Rachel Pearson and Michael Moody as co-founders.. The Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra and The Academy of Ancient Music were named as the festival's orchestras in residence. \n\nThe Grange Festival opened on 7 June 2017 with Monteverdi's Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria directed by Tim Supple. Bizet's Carmen was directed by Annabel Arden and conducted by Jean-Luc Tinguaud. Albert Herring brought together conductor Steuart Bedford and director, John Copley who both knew and worked with Benjamin Britten. Albert Herring was nominated in the best opera category of the 2018 South Bank Sky Arts Awards \n\nIn September 2017 the company staged a newly orchestrated production of Jonathan Dove's Mansfield Park.\n\nThe 2018 season opened with DANCE@THEGRANGE directed by Wayne McGregor and Edward Watson, followed by a well-received production of Handel's Agrippina with the Academy of Ancient Music. The Barber of Seville by Rossini directed by Stephen Barlow followed. Copley returned to direct Mozart's The Abduction from the Seraglio and a single concert performance of Candide by Leonard Bernstein completed the season. \n\nIn 2019 McGregor returns with performances of 21st Century Women. The three operas will be Mozart's The Marriage of Figaro, Falstaff by Giuseppe Verdi and an operatic production of Handel's oratorio, Belshazzar. There will also be a single concert by the John Wilson Orchestra entitled Hollywood and Broadway.\n\nThe final of The Grange Festival International Singing Competition took place on 24th September 2017. British soprano, Rowan Pierce, took the top prize of £7500 and a role in a future Grange Festival production. \n\n"}
{"id": "21312676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21312676", "title": "Timeline of the Great Recession", "text": "Timeline of the Great Recession\n\nThis article gives the timeline of the Great Recession, which hit many developed economies in the wake of the financial crisis of 2007-2008.\n\nNote: The date indicated is that of the official announcement by the department or the public agency in charge of the measurement of the economic activity of the country. Thus, because of possible lags in the collection of statistics, it is possible that the chronological order of reports may not correspond to the actual order of events in recession.\n\nA recession is a period of two quarters of negative GDP growth. The countries listed are those that officially announced that they were in recession.\n\nIt is worth noting that some developed countries such as South Korea and Australia did not enter recession (indeed Australia contracted for the last quarter of 2008 only to grow 1% for the first half of 2009). Poland, then considered to be an emerging market country, also avoided the recession as a result of their strong domestic market, low private debt and flexible currency.\n\nDenmark becomes the first European economy to confirm it is in recession since the global credit crunch began. Its GDP shrinks 0.6% in the first quarter after a 0.2% contraction in the fourth quarter of 2007.\n\nThe Baltic state slides into recession with a 0.9% fall in second-quarter GDP after a drop of 0.5% in the first quarter. It falls deeper into recession in the third quarter when the economy contracted 3.3%.\n\nLatvia joins its northern neighbor Estonia in recession as GDP falls 0.2% in the second quarter from the first quarter, when it fell 0.3%. Property markets and construction have suffered in both Baltic states.\n\nThe \"Celtic Tiger\" slides into recession for the first time in over two decades, recording a 0.5% fall in second quarter GDP, following a 0.3% decline in the first quarter. Its last recession in 1983 saw thousands of people leave Ireland to seek work overseas.\n\nFirst Asian country to slip into a recession since the credit crisis began. Singapore's export-dependent economy shrank an annualized 6.3% in the third quarter after a revised 5.7% contraction in the second quarter; its first recession since 2002. Growth has faltered in Singapore as a result of less demand for exports, a reduction in tourism, and the end of the real-estate boom. Singapore's manufacturing sector had declined 4.9% in the previous quarter.\n\nIceland receives a £1.3 billion (US$2.06 billion, €1.63 billion) bailout package from the International Monetary Fund as the first European country to require an emergency loan with the aim of stabilising the collapsed currency and strengthening the tax system as well as the nationalised banks.\n\nThe banking group BNP Paribas states that Australia is in a risky position with regards to the global financial crisis as foreign liabilities accounted for 60% of the nation's GDP.\n\n500,000 mortgage holders are left in negative equity after house prices dropped 15% since the previous summer, with another 700,000 mortgage holders facing the same risk if prices continue to fall.\n\nEurope's largest economy contracted by 0.5% in the third quarter after GDP fell 0.4% in the second quarter, putting it in recession for the first time in five years.\n\nEquity research by Deutsche Bank states that Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines should not experience a recession, despite potential harm to economic growth from falling commodity prices and possible weaker exports.\n\nItaly plunges into recession, its first since the start of 2005, after GDP contracts a steeper-than-expected 0.5% in the third quarter. Second quarter GDP dropped 0.3%.\n\nHong Kong becomes the second Asian economy to tip into recession, its exports hit by weakening global demand. Third-quarter GDP drops a seasonally adjusted 0.5% after a 1.4% fall in the previous quarter.\n\nTaken as a whole the Eurozone officially slips under, pushed down by recessions in Germany and Italy for its first recession since its creation in 1999.\nThese 15 countries are: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain. On January 1, 2009, Slovakia adopted the euro, and so is now part of the Eurozone. Though the Eurozone suffers from recession as a whole, Belgium, France, Greece, and Slovakia still have better growth.\n\nThe world's second-biggest economy slides into recession, its first in seven years. Its GDP contracts 0.1% in the July–September quarter, as the financial crisis curbs demand for its exports. It shrank 0.9% in the previous quarter.\n\nEconomists at the University of Hawaii reported that the state entered the recession in the previous quarter based on the drop in tourist figures and growing unemployment, with 8,800 jobs expected to be cut in 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Canada had positive GDP growth in Q2 and Q3 but GDP fell by a sharp 3.4% annualized in Q4. Growth is widely expected to remain in recession territory going into 2009. Canada is the only OECD country out of the recession at this time.\n\nSweden technically enters the recession after experiencing contraction of 0.1% in the second and third quarter.\n\nThe US economy has been in recession since December 2007, the National Bureau of Economic Research announced in December 2008.\nThe bureau is a private research institute widely regarded as the official arbiter of US economic cycles. It said a 73-month economic expansion had come to an end. The Bureau stated that the deteriorating labour market throughout 2008 provided reason to state the commencement of the recession as December 2007.\n\nAndrei Klepach, a deputy economics minister of Russia, states that Russia has entered the recession, with two quarters of contraction expected, meaning Russia will fall short of reaching the 6.8% growth forecast for 2008.\n\nGlobal shipping experiences a drop in trade, as exports from South Korea dropping an annualised 30%, with Taiwan and Japan experiencing a 42% and 27% drop respectively. Outgoing traffic in the United States dropped 18% from Long Beach and Los Angeles.\n\nThe UK officially enters the recession as GDP fell by 1.5% in the last quarter of 2008 following a 0.6% drop in the third quarter, with unemployment growing by 131,000 to 1.92 million (6.1%) in the three months leading to November 2008. The British economy only grew 0.7% in 2008, the weakest growth since 1992.\n\nThe Dutch Statistics agency confirms the Netherlands are in recession since April 2008; with updated figures showing minor economic reductions in the 2nd and 3rd quarters of 2008, and a 0.9% reduction in the 4th quarter \n\nThe Directorate General of Budget, Accounting and Statistics announced that its economy had contracted an unprecedented 8.36% in the fourth quarter of 2008; and also recorded 2 consecutive quarters of economic contraction, thus placing the country in a technical recession.\n\nStatistics Finland informs that Finland's gross domestic product diminished by 1.3% in the last quarter of 2008 from the previous quarter. The growth slowed down already in early 2008 and in the third quarter output diminished by 0.3% from the previous quarter.\n\nU.S. Steel announced the closure of the Stelco Lake Erie Works in Nanticoke, Ontario due to the increasingly worse effects of the global economic slowdown. While it may have decreased the local pollution levels, it also has affected 12000 jobs both at the Lake Erie Works and in the Haldimand-Norfolk area.\n\nMalaysia has a 50% chance of slipping into the recession as growth is expected to reach just 0.5% for the year, said the executive director Datuk Mohamed Ariff Abdul Kareem of the Malaysian Institute of Economic Research.\n\nThe French Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies announced that French gross domestic product shrank 1.2% in the first quarter of 2009 after falling by 1.5% in the final quarter of 2008. The French economy had avoided narrowly a recession in 2008. The GDP is expected to keep shrinking in 2009. Eurostat also reported at this time that Austria, Belgium, and Romania had all entered recession in the first quarter of 2009, with two consecutive quarters of shrinking GDP, while Lithuania, Luxembourg, and Portugal had already done so in the last quarter of 2008 and Hungary in the quarter before that.\n\nNorway's mainland GDP, which excludes the oil and gas sectors and the shipping industry, shrank 1.0% in the three months to March after a 0.8% decline in the final quarter of 2008, with recession counted as two consecutive quarterly figures showing a contraction. Mainland GDP is considered a better indicator of the Scandinavian country's economic health, since the oil and gas sector represents 25% of its economic growth but employs only about one% of its working-age population. Still, Norway's total GDP, which includes the oil, gas and shipping sectors, shrank 0.4% in the first quarter of 2009 after 0.8% growth in the fourth quarter of 2008.\n\nMexico becomes the first Latin American country to officially enter recession, having its GDP shrink 8.22% in the first quarter of 2009, after falling 1.6% in the final quarter of 2008 and Swine flu concerns. To this date, it is estimated that the Mexican domestic product will shrink 5.5% in 2009. Ministry of Finances Agustin Carstens declared the country in recession on May 7, 2009, based on estimates, which were confirmed when the actual, real data was released on May 20 by INEGI.\n\nThailand’s economy shrank more than expected in the first quarter, contracting the most in a decade, plunging the nation into recession. GDP shrank 7.1% in the last quarter of 2008, followed by another shrinking of 4.2% in the first quarter of 2009. According to the Singapore branch of Macquarie Group, the Thai economy is expected to recover in the fourth quarter of 2009.\n\nSouth Africa entered recession as the global crisis pounded demand for its main exports; GDP shrank 6.4% in the first quarter of 2009 after falling 1.8% in the last quarter of 2008. This is the first recession for South Africa in 17 years. According to forecasts, the South African domestic product is likely to shrink between 1% and 1.5% in 2009.\n\nSwitzerland officially entered a recession in the first quarter of 2009 when its economy shrank by 0.8%, after contracting 0.3% in the last quarter of 2008. The contraction was caused mainly by weakness in exports, which fell 5.4% in the quarter. Meanwhile, the Swiss watch industry had been reporting double-digit declines in watch exports for the past four months.\n\nFirst South American country to enter the recession.\n\nBrazil slipped into a recession in the first quarter of 2009.\nBulgarian authorities declare the country is officially in recession after dropping 1.6% in the last quarter of 2008, followed by a 5% drop in the first quarter of 2009. Unemployment is rising rapidly and by September 500,000 people are expected to lose their jobs. Exports are down 50%. For the first three months of 2009 GDP has shrunk by 2%. Households and small businesses are heavily in debt.\n\nColombia enters into recession after witnessing 0.7% contraction in the last quarter of 2008 and 0.6% in the following quarter.\n\nTurkey recorded its fastest contraction of 13.8% in the first quarter of 2009 compared to 2008, leading the country into recession after a contraction of 6.2% in the last quarter of 2008. This is Turkey's biggest economic slump since 1945.\n\nSingapore experienced a seasonally adjusted and annualised growth of 20.4% in the second quarter as a result of increased pharmaceuticals production and construction, bringing the country out of the recession.\n\nOn 23 July, the Bank of Canada made comments that most media interpreted as an effective statement predicting with strong certainty that the recession is over with expected growth in GDP beginning the current quarter. The Bank of Canada announced the end of the recession even though it was nascent and still dependent on government stimulus money.\n\nThe French and German GDP both grew 0.3% in the second quarter of 2009; analysts had not anticipated such a quick recovery.\n\nAfter shrinking 4.3% during January–March, Hong Kong's GDP grew 3.3% between April and June, improving its GDP forecasts, which went from negative growth between 5.5 and 6.5% to negative growth between 4.5 and 5.5%. Still, comparing the second quarter of 2009 to the second quarter of 2008, Hong Kong's GDP shrank 3.8% in the former.\n\nPortugal leaves recession after three consecutive quarters of negative growth having its GDP recover by 0.3% in the second quarter of 2009. According to the latest estimates by the Bank of Portugal, Portuguese GDP should fall around 3.5% in 2009, which is the worst figure for the country since 1975.\n\nEven though official government sources state that Argentina's GDP will actually grow this year (and have only recognized a GDP shrinking in June of 0.4% and in July, of 0.3%; both compared to last year's same months), private consulting firms state that Argentine economy has actually been in recession since October 2008. According to them, Argentine GDP shrank 2.9% in the last quarter of 2008, 1.6% in the first quarter of 2009, and 0.6% in the second one. It's widely known in Argentina that the official statistics office in charge of producing this information, INDEC, is not very reliable for trustworthy statistical information, due to the government's mismanagement of the office.\n\nThe Japanese Government informed that after fifteen continuous months of shrinking, and after the most disastrous fall since World War II of 4% between January and March, its GDP grew 3.7% in the second quarter of 2009 in comparison with the same quarter of 2008. In annual terms, Japanese GDP grew 0.9% between April and June. Recovery was mostly contributed to recovering demand in the manufacturing sector with exports growing 6.3%. Consumer spending had only increased by 0.8% in the same period.\n\nThai GDP grew 2.3% in 2009's second quarter, technically leaving the recession.\n\nCyprus enters recession after 0.6% contraction in the first quarter, followed by 0.4% in the second quarter.\n\nThe Brazilian economy technically left the recession when GDP grew 1.9% in the second quarter of 2009 after having fallen in the first quarter of 2009 and last quarter of 2008. Growth surpassed what was expected by analysts, which was 1.6%.\n\nSweden emerges from the recession after witnessing GDP growth of 0.2% in the second quarter.\n\nMacedonia officially enters the recession after experiencing a drop in GDP of 0.9% in the first quarter, followed by 1.4% in the second quarter.\n\nThe economic crisis in Ireland is considered to be the driving force behind the largest migration of Irish people to London in 20 years.\n\nThe UK markets had contracted by 0.4% in the third quarter against what was expected to be a period of growth, as a result of unexpectedly poor performance by the service sector.\n\nThe Netherlands officially exits the recession after experiencing 0.4% growth in the third quarter, but recovery for the Netherlands still remains fragile as the country is highly dependent on exports to maintain the recovery.\n\nGermany's growth of 0.7% in the third quarter helped lead the Eurozone out of the recession after providing overall growth of 0.4% in the same period, with the whole European Union growing 0.2%.\n\nThe National Statistical Service of Greece states that the country had been in recession since the beginning of the year.\n\nThe Mexican government declared that its economy technically had left the recession when the Mexican GDP grew by 2.93% in the third quarter of 2009. Mexico had been in a severe economic crisis for over a year prior to its economic rebound. The Mexican government also approved a $244 billion budget for 2010, a slight increase from 2009.\n\nVenezuelan President Hugo Chavez states that the country has entered the recession as the economy contracted 4.5% in the third quarter.\n\nThe economy grew an annualised 0.9% in the third-quarter after dropping 7.4% in the second-quarter. The recovery was attributed to government spending and the construction industry.\n\nCanada begins its recovery from the recession. Economic growth is at 0.4% after 14 months of economic stagnation.\n\nThe late-2000s recession has entered its second full year of existence. While many nations have managed to climb out of the recession, employment is still sparse and promises to remain so throughout 2010.\n\nCanada continues its long and laborious recovery over its recession. However, people are starting to lose optimism due to the continued job losses. Only Manitoba has managed to create 2000 new jobs while the rest of the nation loses approximately 105,000. The previous month brought in 36,000 new part-time jobs at the expense of 71,000 full-time jobs.\n\nThe US economy is expected to get worse with more job cuts. This will expect to have some ramification with their northern neighbor Canada.\n\nColombia officially leaves the recession after achieving 2% economic growth in the last quarter of 2009.\n\nAfter 6 consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth, the UK economy finally came out of recession with a GDP growth of 0.1%.\n\nEmployment increased by 43,000 in January, all in part-time, pushing the unemployment rate down 0.1 percentage points to 8.3%. January marks the fourth employment gain in six months.Despite the recent increases, employment still remains 280,000 below the level of October 2008. Employment gains in January were driven by women aged 25 to 54 and youths. This was the first notable increase for youths since the start of the employment downturn in the fall of 2008. There were large increases in part-time employment in January, bringing it back to the level of six months earlier. Full-time employment was little changed in January, but has trended up over the last six months. January's increase was among private sector employees, while self-employment declined. Over the last six months, the number of private and public sector employees has been rising while self-employment has been little changed. The largest employment increases in January occurred in business, building and other support services, and retail and wholesale trade. These were partially offset by losses in professional, scientific, and technical services, as well as agriculture.\n\nTaiwan's economy exits from the recession with 9.22% growth in the last quarter of 2009 after increased demand from China and other key markets in the region.\n\nEurope risks a double-dip recession after bad results emerged from France, Germany and Italy. The Eurozone only grew by 0.1% in the last quarter of 2009.\n\nThe economy is rocketing further away from recession, increasing the chances that the Bank of Canada will lift borrowing costs more aggressively than expected later this year. Economic growth surged an annualized 5% in the fourth quarter, providing the clearest sign yet that a broad-based recovery is taking firm hold. It was the fastest annualized quarterly growth since 2000, and the first solidly positive quarter since the economy entered recession in 2008 amid a global pullback brought on by the financial crisis. The fourth-quarter surge was fuelled by everything from a strong housing sector and healthy consumer spending to a surprise turnaround for net trade as the country's exports grew at almost double the pace of imports, according to Statistics Canada.\n\n21,000 jobs were created in Canada as of February 2010. However, employers are still not hiring people in most places including Stelco and other jobs that are in rural areas like Norfolk County, Ontario.\n\nLast quarter expansion of 1.2% in 2009 officially brought Macedonia out of the recession. Overall, Macedonia's GDP contracted by 0.7% last year.\n\n162,000 jobs were created in the United States, unemployment rate held steady at 9.7%.\n\n17,900 new jobs were created in Canada in the previous month. The trend is moving towards job creation instead of layoffs as seen in late 2008 and most of 2009. Jobs are being created in the private sector while public sector jobs are losing ground. Employment increased marginally in Ontario, Quebec, and Saskatchewan.\n\nThe union vote ratification for Stelco Lake Erie Works was confirmed with 88.5% voting in favor of the three-year deal; keeping the place open for industry. As a result, numerous jobs in the local area were saved by this \"eleventh hour\" action.\n\nCanadian factories hummed, consumers bought more houses, governments spent more money, prices increased and the economy posted its best quarter of growth in more than 10 years. The Canadian economy expanded at an annualized rate of 6.1% in the first quarter, surpassing analyst expectations and marking the best growth rate since 1999. Economists had expected annualized GDP growth of 5.9% in the last quarter, up from 5% in last year's fourth quarter. The growth in the first quarter is the third straight quarter of economic expansion in Canada, coming on the heels of three consecutive quarters of contraction. March growth came in at 0.6%, ahead of the 0.5% estimate.\n\nHungary leaves the recession after experiencing 0.9% growth in the first quarter as a result of growing exports and effective government spending measures.\n\nFinland falls back into a state of recession after GDP contracted 0.4% in Q1 2010 and 0.2% in Q4 2009. The country witnessed negative growth of 7.8% in 2009, being the worst result since 1918. Apart from Luxembourg, Finland maintained EU fiscal policy by keeping debt at 44% of GDP, under the 60% limit.\n\nTwenty thousand new jobs were added to Canada's economy. The unemployment rate is expected to have stayed at 8.1%. Economists expect initiated home building was at an annual rate of 192,000 last month, up from 189,100 in May.\n\nThe ONS released preliminary figures showing that economic growth had accelerated from 0.3% in Q1 2010 to 1.1% in Q2. This is almost double the original forecast of 0.6% growth, and the news is a welcome surprise. In late August, this figure was revised up to 1.2% growth as a result of greater construction output. However, large budget cuts are being put into action by the new coalition government to tackle the £163bn budget deficit that the country faces.\n\nFrom April to June, Canada added a massive 225,000 jobs, over half of all of the year-over-year gains since July 2009, which has nearly brought Canada’s employment to pre-recession levels. Now that growth is beginning to normalize, employment and gross domestic product growth paused in July. Canada’s economy shed 9,000 jobs, pushing the employment rate up slightly to 8.0%. The 139,000 full-time jobs lost were largely offset by the 130,000 gained in part-time employment.\n\nEgypt's Minister of Finance, Dr. Youssef Butros Ghali, states that Egypt emerged from the recession as indicated by increased total revenue from sales taxes and customs revenues.\n\nStatistics Canada said an additional 36,000 people got jobs in August, but the unemployment rate rose 0.1 percentage points, to 8.1%, as a larger number of people sought work. That raised the number of unemployed by 17,800, to slightly more than 1.5 million. Excluding the bounce in education jobs, employment actually fell by about 32,000, economists at BMO Capital Markets and CIBC said.\n\nThe National Bureau of Economic Research state that the US left the recession in June 2009, with managing director Lakshman Achuthan of the Economic Cycle Research Institute saying GDP recovered to 70% of the pre-recession level.\n\nBelgium leaves the recession with 0.5% growth in the third quarter.\n\nIceland officially leaves the recession with growth of 1.2% in the third quarter.\n\nIt was announced the UK economy suffered a shock contraction of 0.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010, which has been widely blamed on the severe winter weather in December and austere budget cuts implemented by the coalition government increasing fears that the UK is heading for a double-dip recession. However, overall economic growth for 2010 was 1.4%.\n\nLatvia leaves deep recession with an annualised growth of 3.7% in the last quarter of 2010, meaning the Latvian economy only shrank by 0.2% in 2010, compared to 18% in 2009.\n\nThailand's GDP rose 3.8% in the fourth quarter of 2010 after a minor recession caused by GDP contractions of 0.4% in the second quarter and 0.3% in the third quarter of 2010. The growth of the fourth quarter was attributed to a strengthening global economy, along with increasing income levels in the nation and greater liquidity by financial institutions to help the private sector. Full-year growth was recorded at 7.8%.\n\nVenezuela's economy grew 0.6% in the last quarter of 2010, technically leaving the recession after six quarters. Concern has been expressed by economists with regards to the economy improving due to instability in the private sector pressured by the socialist government, as José Guerra, former manager at the Central Bank of Venezuela, stated that private investment, accounting for half of Venezuela's GDP, dropped 2.2% in 2010.\n\nThe global credit information group Experian highlighted in a report that the economic recovery for Wales is slower than the rest of the UK, stating a forecasted growth of 1.6% per year over the next decade as compared to 2.2% for the rest of the United Kingdom. Issues for Wales were attributed to low export rates, an unskilled workforce and low entrepreneurism, leading to less opportunities for growth.\n\nPortugal's Minister of Finance Teixeira dos Santos warns that the upcoming bail-out package of €78 billion is expected to shift Portugal into recession for at least 2 years.\n\nThe US Department of Labor stated 244,000 jobs were created in April, with 235,000 added in February and 221,000 in March, but unemployment continued to grow, reaching 9%. For unemployment to be reduced to 6%, 13 million private sector jobs must be added over 3 years, meaning annual growth of 4-5% required.\n\nPortugal slips into double-dip recession after the economy contracted by 0.7% in the first quarter of 2011, with a 0.6% contraction in the last quarter of 2010. The European Commission forecast Portugal's GDP will drop 2.2% in 2011, followed by a 1.8% drop in 2012, along with public debt to reach 101.7% of GDP in 2011 and 107.4% of GDP in 2012.\n\nRomania officially leaves the recession after 2 years following economic growth of an annualised 1.6% in the first quarter.\n\nAs house prices remain low in the US housing market, significant foreign purchases have been made by the Canadians, Chinese and Europeans (mainly French, Spanish and Italian), seeing total spending around US$16 billion. Housing prices fell 3% in the first quarter of the year, seeing housing sales increase 5.1% in March.\n\nRecovery for Scotland from the recession is stifled by the risk of stagnation from a weak rate of recovery in exports and business investments.\n\nAfter figures showed that the 0.5% contraction in Q4 2010 was cancelled out by a 0.5% rise in Q1 2011, growth estimates from the ONS suggest that the growth in the UK is slowing down, after figures of 0.2% GDP increase was posted. Sovereign debt in the Eurozone and EU cause the stock market to crash from a FTSE-100 high of 6100 points to just above 5000.\n\nThe St. Thomas Assembly plant was closed permanently after decades of providing employing to the region of St. Thomas, Ontario; resulting in the loss of roughly 1,400 good-paying jobs.\n\nBick's is closing down its tank farm in Delhi, Ontario in November 2011. One hundred and fifty full-time jobs will be lost by this move in addition to secondary industries and retailers.\n\nIreland returns to recession as GDP falls by 0.2% in the fourth quarter of 2011 following a fall of 1.1% in the third quarter.\n\nThe UK economy returns to recession with a fall of 0.2% in GDP in the first quarter of 2012 following a fall of 0.3% in the last quarter of 2011.\n\nThe double dip recession in the UK economy continues with a fall of 0.7% in GDP in the second quarter of 2012.\n\nHungary falls back into recession as GDP falls by 0.2% in the second quarter of 2012 following a fall of 1.0% in the first quarter.\n\nThe double dip recession in the UK economy ends with growth of 1.0% in GDP in the third quarter of 2012, with help from the London Olympic Games.\n\nThe Eurozone economy returns to recession with a fall of 0.1% in GDP in the third quarter of 2012 following a fall of 0.2% in the previous quarter.\n\nIn his Autumn Statement, Chancellor George Osborne cuts the UK growth forecast for 2013 to 1.2% from the 2% forecast in the budget.\n\nJapan is again in recession as the GDP figures for the second quarter of 2012 are revised to show a contraction of 0.03% and the third quarter figures fall by a further 0.9%.\n\nThe Bank of Japan doubles its inflation target to 2% and announces open-ended asset purchases for 2014 in the hope of ending deflation.\n\nInitial GDP figures for the fourth quarter of 2012 show the UK economy shrank by 0.3% raising fears of a triple dip recession.\n\nSir Mervyn King, Governor of the Bank of England, says he believes \"a recovery is in sight\". However, he also expects inflation to rise to at least 3% by the summer of 2013 and to remain above the Bank's 2% target for two years.\n\nThe recession in the Eurozone economy deepens with a fall of 0.6% in GDP in the fourth quarter of 2012. Of the major economies, Germany shrinks by 0.6%, France by 0.3% and Italy by 0.9%. The economy of the 27 members of the EU, including non-Eurozone members such as Denmark and the UK, shrinks by 0.5%.\n\nJapan remains in recession as the economy shrinks by a further 0.1%.\n\nThe European Commission forecast for 2013 expects growth of 0.1% across the 27 members of the EU but a contraction of 0.3% in the Eurozone economy.\n\nIn its National Economic Report of Bermuda for 2012, the Bermudan Ministry of Finance expects GDP will decline by 0% to 1.5% in 2013 but five years of recession will end with \"modest growth in 2014\". GDP is thought to have contracted by 1.75% to 2.25% in 2012 after a decline of 2.8% in 2011.\n\nThe UK's AAA credit rating is downgraded by Moody's to AA+. The agency expects growth to \"remain sluggish over the next few years\".\n\nBanks in Cyprus re-open after having been closed for two weeks. The government of Cyprus agrees a 10 billion euro bailout deal with the EU and IMF. Depositors with more than € 100,000 in certain banks will lose up to 60% of their deposits. An earlier proposal that would have seen depositors with less than €100,000 losing 6.75% of their deposits fails to attract a single vote in favor in the Cypriot parliament. Russia is expected to help finance the bailout by delaying the repayment of a 2.5 billion euro loan to Cyprus until 2021.\n"}
{"id": "12733898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12733898", "title": "Vasanta Habba", "text": "Vasanta Habba\n\nVasanta Habba (), which means \"spring festival\" in the Kannada language, is a cultural festival organised by the Nrityagram foundation in the city of Bangalore, India. It is a very popular event and is considered the classical Woodstock of India. This festival, first held in the year 1990, was the brainchild of Protima Bedi, the founder of Nrityagram. The festival is held in the premises of Nrityagram at Hesaraghatta in the outskirts of Bangalore and attracts the best musicians, dancers and cultural artists from across India. Starting from an audience of about 3000 in its inaugural year, the 2003 edition saw over 40,000 people attending the event. \n\nThe festival is one-night festival which starts in the late evening and goes on till the early morning of the next day. It is held in the amphitheatre located in the premises of Nrityagram at Hesaragahatta, which is a small village located 35 kilometres from the city of Bangalore. There is no entry fee and the seats are available on a first-come basis. Due to this fact, the seats start filling up from the afternoon itself. The publicity for the festival is held in a unique manner by employing folk artists and other troupes who perform on the roads of Bangalore, which publicise the event and also act as a curtain-raiser for the festival. The event is organised with the help of volunteers who belong to the colleges in the city. Many like-minded people also contribute to the event by sponsoring food stalls at the venue, organising food for the artists and also providing cars and other automobiles for ferrying musicians and artists to the venue. The amphitheatre can accommodate about 3,000 people and large screens are provided outside the venue for people who could not get a seat in time.\n\nHeld on 2 Feb 2002, the artists who performed included Aruna Sairam (Carnatic vocal), the Warsi brothers, Ateeq Hussain Khan (Qawwali) and Suma Sudhindra (who introduced the Tarangini veena). This event was beamed live on Doordarshan and also received good coverage on other TV channels\n\nPerformances in this edition of Vasanta Habba included a concert on the Mohan Veena by Grammy Award winner, Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, fusion music by Taufiq Querishi and qawwali by the Ateeq Hussain Khan Warsi brothers. This event was attended by over 40,000 people.\n\nHeld on 7 Feb 2004, the artists who performed included the renowned saxophonist Kadri Gopalnath and the Carnatic music exponent, Bombay Jayashri.\n\nThe event was not held in the year 2005 because India was facing the after-effects of the Indian Ocean tsunami. Habba was never held again and Nrityagram blamed it on a financial crisis. Since Nrityagram has not commented on the fate of Habba, it is assumed that the festival has been scrapped for good. Meanwhile, their dance ensemble has consistently received rave reviews and now go on frequent annual performance tours to the USA and other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "28293743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28293743", "title": "Washington Cemetery (Brooklyn)", "text": "Washington Cemetery (Brooklyn)\n\nWashington Cemetery is an old, historical, and predominantly Jewish burial ground located at 5400 Bay Parkway in Mapleton, Brooklyn, New York, United States.\n\nWashington Cemetery was founded in 1850, and it became a Jewish burial-ground as early as 1857. Brooklyn cemeteries came into existence due to the Rural Cemetery Act of 1847, which allowed for the construction of commercial cemeteries outside the city limits. This part of Kings County was not yet incorporated into the City of Brooklyn, and the legislation resulted in the transformation of several large parcels of farmland into cemeteries.\n\nWashington Cemetery is made up of five \"gated cemeteries\" separated by several local Brooklyn streets. The cemetery office building is located on the grounds of Cemetery #1, which was the original cemetery, next to the Bay Parkway station of the F train of the New York City Subway.\n\nThe founder of Washington Cemetery, James Arlington Bennet, is buried there, as are his wife and son. Bennet was born in New York, and was proprietor and principal of the Arlington House, an educational institution on Long Island. He usually is remembered as Joseph Smith's first choice as Vice-Presidential running mate in the United States presidential election of 1844, before Smith was assassinated. His surname is misspelled on his headstone, which reads, \"Author of Bennett's Book Keeping & Other Works. Founder of Washington Cemetery.\"\n\nCemetery #1 is shaped like a pentagon, and bordered on three of its sides by major Brooklyn streets: Ocean Parkway, Bay Parkway, and McDonald Avenue. The main entrance and cemetery office building are on Bay Parkway just off McDonald Avenue. The interior of Cemetery #1 is crisscrossed by paths called Rose Avenue, Hyacinth Avenue, Jasmine Avenue, Aster Avenue, Lotus Avenue, and Evergreen Avenue. It has numerical posts from number one to number one hundred and forty-nine \"A\" (1–149A), sections marked \"ranges\". It has \"society\" sections, and burials are still occurring. It houses the majority of the mausoleums and larger monuments. It is also the cemetery that in December 2010 sustained the majority of overturned and broken headstones because of vandals. Approximately 200 headstones were overturned and are still not upright. Although there are concrete walkways, grave markers are very closely positioned in some areas, and visitors are sometimes forced to walk on grass.\n\nCemetery #2 is located across from Cemetery #1 and the office building. It is triangular, bounded on two of its sides by major thoroughfares - McDonald Avenue on the northeast and Bay Parkway on the northwest - and has four exits and entrances. Cemetery posts are numbered 150 to 237. It also is crisscrossed by paths, and houses society sections. Its named paths are Cedar Avenue, Maple Avenue, and Cypress Avenue.\n\nCemetery #3 is located across Bay Parkway directly across from Cemetery #2. It is bounded by Bay Parkway on its southeast and 21st Avenue on its northwest. It has five entrances and exits, and numbered posts from 231 to 333. Its named paths are Orange Avenue, Sycamore Avenue, Spruce Avenue, Aspen Avenue, and Balsam Avenue.\n\nCemetery #4 is directly across 21st Avenue from Cemetery #3, bounded by 21st Avenue on its southeast and 20th Avenue on its northwest, and has numbered posts are 334 to 462. It has five entrance and exits, and paths named are Walnut Avenue, Ash Avenue, Tulip Avenue, Iris Avenue, and Pine Avenue.\n\nCemetery #5 is directly across Cemetery #4, and bounded by 20th Avenue on its southeast. Its numbered posts run from 464 to 519. Oak Avenue, Magnolia Avenue, Arcadia Avenue, and Birch Avenue are its named paths. It has sections with four numbers on its west side.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13950892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13950892", "title": "World Philosophy Day", "text": "World Philosophy Day\n\nWorld Philosophy Day was proclaimed by UNESCO to be celebrated every 3rd Thursday of November. It was first celebrated on 21 November 2002. \n\nBy celebrating World Philosophy Day each year, on the third Thursday of November, UNESCO underlines the enduring value of philosophy for the development of human thought, for each culture and for each individual. UNESCO has always been closely linked to philosophy, not speculative or normative philosophy, but critical questioning which enables it to give meaning to life and action in the international context.\n\nIn establishing World Philosophy Day in 2005, UNESCO’s General Conference highlighted the importance of this discipline, especially for young people, underlining that “philosophy is a discipline that encourages critical and independent thought and is capable of working towards a better understanding of the world and promoting tolerance and peace”. \nUNESCO's General Conference was convinced that “the institutionalisation of Philosophy Day at UNESCO as ‘World Philosophy Day’ would win recognition for and give strong impetus to philosophy and, in particular, to the teaching of philosophy in the world”.\n\n"}
