{"id": "38108929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38108929", "title": "8-4-4 Curriculum in Kenya", "text": "8-4-4 Curriculum in Kenya\n\nIn 1985, former Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi introduced the 8-4-4 System educational program, which adopted eight years of primary education, four years of secondary education and four years of university education . With the introduction of the 8-4-4 system CPE became KCPE (Kenya Certificate of Primary Education) while KCE became the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE).\n\nSince 1985, public education in Kenya has been based on an 8-4-4 system, with eight years of primary education followed by four years of secondary school and four years of college or university of the\n\n4. New 2-6-3-3-3 Kenya Education System\n"}
{"id": "1040219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040219", "title": "Achievement gap in the United States", "text": "Achievement gap in the United States\n\nThe achievement gap in the United States is the observed, persistent disparity in measures of educational performance among subgroups of U.S. students, especially groups defined by socioeconomic status (SES), race/ethnicity and gender. The achievement gap can be observed on a variety of measures, including standardized test scores, grade point average, dropout rates, and college enrollment and completion rates. While this article focuses on the achievement gap in the United States, the gap in achievement between lower income students and higher income students exists in all nations and it has been studied extensively in the U.S. and other countries, including the U.K. Various other gaps between groups exist around the globe as well.\n\nResearch into the causes of the disparity in academic achievement between students from different socioeconomic and racial backgrounds has been ongoing since the 1966 publication of the Coleman Report (officially titled \"Equality of Educational Opportunity\"), commissioned by the U.S. Department of Education, which found that a combination of home, community, and in-school factors affect academic performance and contribute to the achievement gap. According to American educational psychologist David Berliner, home and community environments have a stronger impact on school achievement than in-school factors, in part, because students spend more time outside of school than in school. In addition, the out-of-school factors influencing academic performance differ significantly between children living in poverty and children from middle-income households.\n\nThe achievement gap, as reported in trend data collected by the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP), has become a focal point of education reform efforts by a number of nonprofit organizations and advocacy groups. Attempts to minimize the achievement gap by improving equality of access to educational opportunities have been numerous but fragmented, such as affirmative action, multicultural education, finance equalization, and interventions to improve school testing, teacher quality and accountability.\n\nThe education of African Americans and some other minorities lags behind those of other U.S. ethnic groups, such as Whites and Asian Americans, as reflected by test scores, grades, urban high school graduation rates, rates of disciplinary action, and rates of conferral of undergraduate degrees. Indeed, high school graduation rates and college enrollment rates are comparable to those of whites 25 or 30 years ago. It should also be noted that the category of African immigrant population (excluding Haitians and other foreign-born blacks born outside of Africa) has the highest educational attainment of any group in the United States, but they represent a small group within the larger African American population.\n\nEast Asian Americans of Chinese, Japanese and Korean descent score the highest in all scholastic standardized tests such as the SAT, GRE, MCAT, USMLE exams and IQ tests followed by caucasian White people who score in the intermediate range followed by African-American and Hispanic students who tend to score in the lower ranges. U.S. students as whole have in general attained average scores on the International PISA test while other wealthy industrialized developed East Asian countries, such as Taiwan, Japan, Singapore and South Korea have the highest top scores. However, compared with children in some less developed countries like Benin where some children, especially girls, end their education after the elementary level, education in the United States is compulsory to age 16 regardless of race or class. It is expected that over half of public education students will be required to pass standards-based assessments which expect that all students to be at least exposed to algebra by high school and exit prepared for college. In many other nations, such as Germany and Japan, those with lower test scores may be tracked as skilled tradepersons or unskilled laborers.\n\nNowadays, there's a gaining population of students who use online education, and the number of institutions which offering fully online degrees is also increasing. According to several studies, online education probably could create an environment where there is less cultural division and negative stereotypes of African Americans, thus protecting those students who have had bad experiences. In addition, the influence technology and user skills and so as economics and academic influences are tightly bonded, that may have positively contributed to African American online learners experience. However, it appears African American male students are less likely to enroll in online classes.\n\nEvidence of the achievement gap can be found using various measures, but one assessment used nationwide is the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP). The graphs below show the achievement gap on this assessment between black and white students and between Hispanic and white students in the U.S. over time. Although the gaps have generally narrowed in recent years according to this particular measure, there are clearly still large disparities between groups.\n\nResults of the reading achievement test:\n\nResearchers have not reached consensus about the causes of the academic achievement gap; instead, there exists a wide range of studies that cite an array of factors, both cultural and structural, that influence student performance in school. Annette Lareau suggested that students who lack middle-class cultural capital and have limited parental involvement are likely to have lower academic achievement than their better resourced peers. Other researchers suggest that academic achievement is more closely tied to race and socioeconomic status and have tried to pinpoint why.\n\nEconomic factors were identified as lack of online course access (McCoy, 2012) and online course attrition which indicated before (Liu et al., 2007). Based on the National Center for Educational Statistic (2015), about half of African American male students grew up in single-parent households. They are associated with higher incidences of poverty, which leads to poorer educational outcomes (Child Trends Databank, 2015). Low-income households tend to have fewer home computers and less access to the Internet (Zickuhr & Smith, 2012).\n\nFor example, being raised in a low-income family often means having fewer educational resources in addition to poor nutrition and limited access to health care, all of which could contribute to lower academic performance. Researchers concerned with the achievement gap between genders cite biological differences, such as brain structure and development, as a possible reason why one gender outperforms the other in certain subjects. For example, a Virginia Tech Study conducted in 2000 examined the brains of 508 children and found that different areas of the brain develop in a different sequence in girls compared to boys.\n\nThe differing maturation speed of the brain between boys and girls affects how each gender processes information and could have implications for how they perform in school.\nHernstein and Murray claimed in the book \"The Bell Curve\", creating much controversy, that genetic variation in average levels of intelligence (IQ) may explain some portion of the racial disparities in achievement. Other researchers have argued that there is no significant difference in inherent cognitive ability between different races that could help to explain the achievement gap, and that environment is at the root of the issue.\n\nResearch shows that the achievement gap, which often is first measured (by standardized tests) in elementary school, actually begins well before students reach kindergarten as a “school readiness” gap. One study claims that about half the test score gap between black and white high school students is already evident when children start school.\n\nA variety of different tests at kindergarten entry have provided evidence of such a gap, including the U.S. Department of Education's Early Childhood Longitudinal Survey of Kindergarten children (ECLS-K). While results differ depending on the instrument, estimates of the black-white gap range from slightly less than half a standard deviation to slightly more than 1 standard deviation.\n\nThis early disparity in performance is critical, as research shows that once students are behind, they do not catch up. Children who score poorly on tests of cognitive skills before starting kindergarten are highly likely to be low performers throughout their school careers. The evidence of the early appearance of the gap has led to efforts focused on early childhood interventions (see “Narrowing the achievement gap” below).\n\nAchievement gaps between African American students and White students in online classes tend to be greater than regular class. Expanding from 14% in 1995 to 22% in 2015 (National Center for Education Statistics, 2016). Possible cause might be the differences in socio-economic status (Palmer et al., 2013), academic performance differences (Osborne, 2001), unable to access technology (Fairlie, 2012), no online technical support (Rovai & Gallien, 2005), and anxious towards racial stereotyping (Osborne, 2001). \n\nThe culture and environment in which children are raised may play a role in the achievement gap. Jencks and Phillips argue that African American parents may not encourage early education in toddlers because they do not see the personal benefits of having exceptional academic skills. As a result of cultural differences, African American students tend to begin school with smaller vocabularies than their white classmates. Hart and Risley calculated a \"30 million word gap\" between children of high school dropouts and those of professionals who are college educated. The differences are qualitative as well as quantitative, with differences in \"unique\" words, complexity, and \"conversational turns.\"\n\nHowever, poverty often acts as a confounding factor and differences that are assumed to arise from racial/cultural factors may be socioeconomically driven. Many children who are poor, regardless of race, come from homes that lack stability, continuity of care, adequate nutrition, and medical care creating a level of environmental stress that can affect the young child's development. As a result, these children enter school with decreased word knowledge that can affect their language skills, influence their experience with books, and create different perceptions and expectations in the classroom context.\n\nStudies show that when students have parental assistance with homework, they perform better in school. This is a problem for many minority students due to the large number of single-parent households (67% of African-American children are in a single-parent household) and the increase in non-English speaking parents. Students from single-parent homes often find it difficult to find time to receive help from their parent. Similarly, some Hispanic students have difficulty getting help with their homework because there is not an English speaker at home to offer assistance.\n\nDisadvantages in a child's early life can cultivate into achievement gaps in their education. Poverty, coupled with the environment they are raised in, can lead to shortcomings in educational achievement. Despite strong standards and beliefs in education, Hispanic children consistently perform poorly, reflected by a low average of math and reading scores, as compared to other groups except African American. Hispanic and African American children have been shown to be more likely to be raised in poverty, with 33% of Hispanic families living below the economic poverty level, compared to African American (39%), Asian (14%) and White (13%) counterparts. Children who are raised in poverty are less likely to be enrolled in nursery or preschool. Though researchers are seeing improvements in achievement levels, such as a decrease in high school dropout rates (from 24% to 17%) and a steady increase in math and reading scores over the past 10 years, there are still issues that must be addressed.\n\nThere is a common misconception that Hispanic parents are not involved in their child's education and fail to transmit strong educational values to their children. However, there is evidence that Hispanic parents actually hold their children's education in high value. The majority of Hispanic children are affected by immigration. It affects recent immigrants as well as the children of immigrants. Both recent immigrants and the children of immigrants are faced with language barriers and other migration obstacles. A study explored the unique situation and stressors recent Latin American immigrants face. Hispanic students showed lower academic achievement, more absences, and more life stressors than their counterparts. In 2014-2015, 77.8% of Hispanic children were English Language learners. This can be problematic because children may not have parents who speak English at home to help with language acquisition. Immigration struggles can be used as a motivator for students. Immigrant parents appeal to their children and hold high expectations because of the “gift” they are bestowing on them. They immigrated and sacrificed their lives so their children can succeed, and this framework is salient in encouraging children to pursue their education. Parents use their struggles and occupation to encourage a better life.\n\nParental involvement has been shown to increase educational success and attainment for students. For example, parental involvement in elementary school has been shown to lower high school dropout rates and improved on time completion of high school. A common misconception is that Latino parents don’t hold their children's education in high regards (Valencia, 2002), but this has been debunked. Parents show their values in education by holding high academic expectations and giving “consejos” or advice. In 2012, 97% of families reported teaching their children letters, words or numbers. A study reported that parent involvement during adolescence continues to be as influential as in early childhood.\n\nAnother explanation that has been suggested for racial and ethnic differences in standardized test performance is that some minority children may not be motivated to do their best on these assessments. Many argue that standardized IQ tests and other testing procedures are culturally biased toward the knowledge and experiences of the European-American middle class.\n\nClaude M. Steele suggested that minority children and adolescents may also experience stereotype threat—the fear that they will be judged to have traits associated with negative appraisals and/or stereotypes of their race or ethnic group. According to this theory, this produces test anxiety and keeps them from doing as well as they could on tests. According to Steele, minority test takers experience anxiety, believing that if they do poorly on their test they will confirm the stereotypes about inferior intellectual performance of their minority group. As a result, a self-fulfilling prophecy begins, and the child performs at a level beneath his or her inherent abilities.\n\nSome researchers also hypothesize that in some cases, minorities, especially African American students, may stop trying in school because they do not want to be accused of “acting white” by their peers, or that some minority students simply stop trying because they do not believe they will ever see the true or deserved benefits of their hard work. As some researchers point out, minority students may feel little motivation to do well in school because they do not believe it will pay off in the form of a better job or upward social mobility. By not trying to do well in school, such students engage in a rejection of the achievement ideology – that is, the idea that working hard and studying long hours will pay off for students in the form of higher wages or upward social mobility.\n\nDifferent schools have different effects on similar students. Children of color tend to be concentrated in low-achieving, highly segregated schools. In general, minority students are more likely to come from low-income households, meaning minority students are more likely to attend poorly funded schools based on the districting patterns within the school system. Schools in lower-income districts tend to employ less qualified teachers and have fewer educational resources. Research shows that teacher effectiveness is the most important in-school factor affecting student learning. Good teachers can actually close or eliminate the gaps in achievement on the standardized tests that separate white and minority students.\n\nSchools also tend to place students in tracking groups as a means of tailoring lesson plans for different types of learners. However, as a result of schools placing emphasis on socioeconomic status and cultural capital, minority students are vastly over-represented in lower educational tracks. Similarly, Hispanic and African American students are often wrongly placed into lower tracks based on teachers’ and administrators’ expectations for minority students. Such expectations of a race within school systems are a form of institutional racism. Some researchers compare the tracking system to a modern form of racial segregation within the schools.\n\nStudies on tracking groups within schools have also proven to be detrimental for minority students. Once students are in these lower tracks, they tend to have less-qualified teachers, a less challenging curriculum, and few opportunities to advance into higher tracks. There is also some research that suggests students in lower tracks suffer from social psychological consequences of being labeled as a slower learner, which often leads children to stop trying in school. In fact, many sociologists argue that tracking in schools does not provide any lasting benefits to any group of students.\n\nThe practice of awarding low grades and test scores to children who struggle causes low-performing children to experience anxiety, demoralization, and a loss of control. This undermines performance. The effect increases across the elementary and secondary school years. The effect explains why the achievement gap increases over the school years. The effect may explain why the achievement gap has resisted solution.\n\nAdditionally, poor and minority students have disproportionately less access to high-quality early childhood education, which has been shown to have a strong impact on early learning and development. One study found that although black children are more likely to attend preschool than white children, they may experience lower-quality care. The same study also found that Hispanic children in the U.S. are much less likely to attend preschool than white children. Another study conducted in Illinois in 2010 found that only one in three Latino parents could find a preschool slot for his or her child, compared to almost two thirds of other families.\n\nFinally, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research (NIEER), families with modest incomes (less than $60,000) have the least access to preschool education. Research suggests that dramatic increases in both enrollment and quality of prekindergarten programs would help to alleviate the school readiness gap and ensure that low-income and minority children begin school on even footing with their peers.\n\nIn addition to the moral and social justice arguments for closing the achievement gap, there are strong economic arguments for doing so. A 2009 report by the management consulting firm McKinsey & Company asserts that the persistence of the achievement gap in the U.S. has the economic effect of a “permanent national recession.\" The report claims that if the achievement gap between black and Latino performance and white student performance had been narrowed, GDP in 2008 would have been $310 billion to $525 billion higher (2–4 percent).\n\nIf the gap between low-income students and their peers had been narrowed, GDP in the same year would have been $400 billion to $670 billion higher (3–5 percent). In addition to the potential increase in GDP, the report projects that closing the achievement gap would lead to cost savings in areas outside of education, such as incarceration and healthcare. The link between low school performance and crime, low earnings and poor health has been echoed in academic research.\n\nStudents who have problems with technology interfered are more likely to withdraw from their online courses (Bambara et al., 2009). Also, there's no sufficient technology support which will also leads students to drop the class since their problems could not be solved quickly (Palmer & Holt, 2010; Yang & Cornelius, 2004).\n\nStudents who were more focused and engaged themselves to the class will tend to receive higher grade, their self-confidence can be gained through daily life use of Internet (Sahin & Shelley, 2008). Male online learners had higher Internet self-efficacy than female, while they participated less in discussions (Chang et al., 2014; Ong & Lai, 2006).\n\nAs Fletcher (2015) indicated, possible factors that helped African American college students to gain academic success via online education might be: positive pre-college educational experiences, supportive environments in college campus, involving in campus activities, positive faculty interactions and support, same race/gender relationships with peers, family support, self-confidence, future career ambitions and the ability to face racism.\n\nStudents of color like African American students need a color-blind environment to support them reaching towards academic success better. In this way they are more likely to gain self-confidence and educational resilience (Tucker, 2014).\n\nExplanations for the achievement gap and concerns over its effects and even the existence of such a gap are widely contested.  These explanations are also the source of much controversy, especially since efforts to \"close the gap\" have become some of the more politically prominent education reform issues. The issues that the achievement gap perpetuate also hold politically charged issues. For example, the cause of the Latino education crisis is not attributable to any single factor. It is likely the result of multiple variables-- all of which can have an effect on one another-- ranging from social, economic, and educational conditions to inadequate social services and families with exceptionally low human and social capital. The effects of the achievement gap in school can be seen later in life for students. For example, since schools often lack the resources to meet many students' most basic educational needs and since there are few entry level jobs that provide a living wage and benefits available to those without higher education or special skills in the economy, many are left at a disadvantage. The following attempts have all been made in order to counteract the effects of the achievement gap at schools. They range from nationwide, government-led initiatives to smaller school-based initiatives.\n\nThe federal No Child Left Behind Act of 2002 (NCLB) focuses on standardized test scores and school accountability to ensure that all students have the same educational opportunities. As written, the legislation incentivizes that schools show continual improvement toward this goal (otherwise known as \"Adequate Yearly Progress,\" or AYP) otherwise schools face punishments, such as sanctions. This system has been criticized by some for being unfair toward schools that have the highest population of minority and poor students, as it is harder for these schools to meet the standards set by the No Child Left Behind Act, due to insufficient funding from either local, district, or state actors. This in turn leads to a cycle of underperformance and sanctions within these areas which furthers the problems that the Act meant to fix.\n\nIn 2010, the Obama Administration instituted the Race to the Top (RTTT) program which provides financial incentives to states to produce measurable student gains. RTTT's primary goals are to improve student achievement, close achievement gaps, and improve high school graduation rates. The goals of both programs has been to close the achievement gap, but the RTTT has been more focused on closing the gap between higher and lower performing schools rather than focusing on a national approach. The major difference between the two educational reform programs is that RTTT is a competitive grant program that provides incentives for schools to change, while the NCLB Act mandated various changes in state and local education systems. The RTTT's approach is more adaptable and focused as it allows for individual actions between schools, and is meant to encourage reform within schools without resorting to punishments, whereas the No Child Left Behind Act relies on punishments as its main form of promoting reform in schools.\n\nAnother attempt to standardize the education of students is the Common Core State Standards Initiative, also known as Common Core. The Common Core, created in 2009 and 2010, sets benchmarks for the skills that students should have by certain grade levels in subjects such as Math and Language Arts and the system itself is to meant to be a national baseline for how students are achieving. This baseline is meant to help establish what students need in order to achieve in higher education. While the standards are meant to be nationwide, they have only been adopted by 35 states as it is not mandatory for states to subscribe to the Common Core unless they desire federal grants. The Common Core Initiative has been criticized as it has not yielded any noticeable improvement in what has almost 10 years since it has been implemented, due to a multiple reasons, from incorrect implementation to content as the idea of a centralized system for education has been criticized for not taking the dynamic differences in learning-style into consideration.\n\nThe newest addition to the growing list of government-led initiatives has been the Every Student Succeeds Act, or ESSA. The ESSA, enacted in December 2015, is Congress's replacement for the NCLB. The ESSA takes notes from both the RTTT and the NCLB, by keeping the standardized testing of the NCLB while allowing for the flexibility of the RTTT. The ESSA gives states more say in how schools are held accountable, and how states can act to fix issues at their schools, and as such, states can set long-term goals instead of having to worry about year-to-year performance issues as with the NCLB. States must still identify low performing schools and provide additional support, but now states can focus on long-term solutions. The new bill also focuses more on academic growth, which is subjective and does not always line up with a student's grade level, whereas the NCLB only cared whether students were performing to grade level. By combining the standardized test requirements of the NCLB while allowing for more state control like in the RTTT, the ESSA hopes to achieve long-lasting success and reform.\n\nInitiatives to close the achievement gap have been implemented at the school, district and state level in order to better address the issue. These include investments in pre-kindergarten programs, class size reduction, small schools, curricular reform, alignment of pre-kindergarten through college standards and expectations, and improved teacher education programs. Many schools have started implementing after-school activities such as tutoring sessions, remedial programs, and rapid assessment programs. These programs are meant to help minority students learn at a more accelerated rate in order to help them catch up to their peers. Other schools have started de-tracking their students in order to provide the same quality education for all students, regardless of race. De-tracking not only allows for all students to be taught in the same way, but it also opens up new opportunities for students who would be put on a certain career path by their education.\n\nAnother focus of reform directed toward the achievement gap has been on teacher development, as research shows that since teachers are responsible for almost every aspect of a child's education within the bounds of a classroom. Therefore, in order to best address the achievement gap, reform efforts based on improved teaching are one of the main strategies used to address the gap. This reform effort has been both top-down, in the form of higher state standards for teacher education and preparation, as well as bottom-up, through programs like Teach for America and AmeriCorps that aim to address educational inequity by recruiting and training teachers specifically to work in high-needs schools.\n\nOne strategy being used to address the achievement gap has been focusing on early childhood development. Economic research shows that investment at this stage is both more effective and cost effective than interventions later in a child's life. By helping develop critical skills early on, these programs cut out the need for such intervention later on. Head Start and various state-funded pre-kindergarten programs target students from low-income families in an attempt to level the playing field for these children before school begins. In addition to increased access, there has also an increased national focus on raising quality standards for Head Start and state-funded pre-K programs, and in improving training and professional development for early care providers.\n\nThere is substantial evidence pointing to early childhood development playing a huge role in closing the achievement gap: various studies, including the Carolina Abecedarian study, Child-Parent Center study, and HighScope Perry Preschool study, have shown that pre-K programs can have a positive and long-lasting impact on academic achievement of low-income and minority students. Furthermore, the role of early childhood education and development has been tied to success even out of the classroom. Pre-K programs help students develop social, emotional, and critical thinking skills at a young age, and while none of this prevents the effects of poverty, it does help in dampening the effects while also better preparing student for their future.\n\nSociologists Christopher Jencks and Meredith Phillips have argued that narrowing the black-white test score gap \"would do more to move [the United States] toward racial equality than any politically plausible alternative\". As already discussed, there is also strong evidence that narrowing the gap would have a significant positive economic and social impact.\n\nComputer and technology use have been linked to increased student achievement. “When teachers and administrators make a sustained commitment to the use of computers in the classroom, student achievement increases (Mann & Shafer, 1997). Randomized experiments demonstrate that the performance of low-achieving students can be improved by using technology that adjusts the level of difficulty of the books and math problems that are presented to each student, raises the probability that each student will achieve high scores on end-of-book reading comprehension quizzes and high accuracy scores on daily math assignments, raises the probability that each student can earn high letter grades, and creates a structured environment where each student is likely to receive regular, objective, positive feedback signaling that he or she is advancing on a daily basis, promoting high self-efficacy and a strong sense of control over academic outcomes. This demonstrates that it is possible to increase engagement, effort and performance, even when the tasks presented to each student become progressively more difficult, if technology is used to individualize task difficulty and create a structure where it is possible for all students to achieve high reading comprehension and math accuracy scores on a regular basis. A comparison of the cost-effectiveness of this approach indicates that it is more efficient than 22 other strategies for raising student achievement.\n\nGenerally, those students who enrolled and finished online courses were older college students (Fetzner, 2013; James, Swan, & Daston., 2016; Newell, 2007; Romero & Usart, 2014 ). Also, these students have better chance to perform higher self-efficacy scores (Xie & Huang, 2014) and future career ambitions or higher incomes (Carr, 2000; Park & Choi, 2009). Studies shows that online learners are tend to less likely to make friends and become socialized (Varela et al., 2012), while there's possible cause for example the experience of disappointing relationships in the context of education (Romero & Usart, 2014).\n\nAs Friedman (2007) claimed that the world is flat, online education has made the education becomes more accessible for a wider range of students. But there's also some counter points of online education for example: lack of technical support (Palmer & Holt, 2010; Yang & Cornelius, 2014); inadequate teacher support (Palmer & Holt, 2010); feeling of isolation (Reilly, Gallagher-Lepak, & Killion, 2012; Tucker, 2014; Yang & Cornelius, 2004).\n\nUsing technology as a tool for narrowing the achievement gap begins with a purpose, communication, listening, and collaboration. These skills can be achieved through the use of weblogs, social networking sites, feeds, and myriad other multimedia. In classrooms, students can communicate internally, or they can work side by side with others who are located thousands of miles away. Through the use of technology, presentations can be archived so that the material can be reviewed at any time. “All teachers could record important parts of what they do in the classroom that can then be archived to the class Weblog and used by students who may have missed the class or just want a refresher on what happened.” (Richardson, p. 117)\n\nHaving access to information on the web gives students an advantage to learning. “Students at all levels show more interest in their work and their ability to locate and reflect upon their work is greatly enhanced as are the opportunities for collaborative learning” (Richardson, p. 28). Weblogs are different from posts or comments; they require students to analyze and synthesize the content and communicate their understanding with the audience responses in mind. \nTechnology has been incorporated into the Standards. Even though the NCLB Act holds school districts accountable for student achievement, there are still many students who do not have the resources at home to fully take part in these excellent educational tools. Some teachers feel that technology is not the solution and see it as a risk. Therefore, technology is not always being used to its fullest potential by teachers and students do not gain the advantages technology offers. “Given the fact that the amount of information going online shows no sign of slowing, if they are unable to consistently collect potentially relevant information for their lives and careers and quickly discern what of that information is most useful, they will be at a disadvantage.” (Richardson, p. 73).\n\nAccording to the U.S. Census, by 2012, it is estimated that 70% of homes will have broadband access. While this is a large percentage, it still leaves 30% of households without internet access. The government has lent its hand in closing the Global Achievement Gap by granting funding for low-income school districts for programs such as one-on-one computing, however, the fact that many of these students do not have online capability at home is still a main issue. This digital divide may cause the achievement gap to increase as technology continues to become heavily integrated in the daily coursework for school children. Students need to have Internet access outside of school on a regular basis to successfully complete challenging courswork.\n\nAccording to National Center for Education Statistics, it noted that African American 12 grade male students had the lowest reading scores among other racial and ethnic group. Reading gaps between African Americans and Whites have increased from 1992 to present (National Center for Education Statistics, 2016). Tonsing-Meyer (2013) claimed that the reading and writing practice was specified and emphasized in 85% of online course assignment, with activities attached, which might improve this situation.\n\nExceptions to the achievement gap exist. Schools that are majority black, even poor, can perform well above national norms, with Davidson Magnet School in Augusta, Georgia being a prominent example. Another school with remarkable gains for students of color is Amistad Academy in New Haven, Connecticut.Additionally North Star Academy has been awarded the National Blue Ribbon School for two years in a row. These schools offer more rigorous, traditional modes of instruction, including Direct Instruction. In one study, Direct Instruction was found to be the single most effective pedagogical method for raising the skill levels of inner-city students (Project Follow Through).\n\nHigh performing Black schools are not unique to the twentieth century. In Washington, DC in the late 19th century, a predominantly low income Black school performed higher than three White schools in yearly testing. This trend continued until the mid 20th century, and during that time the M Street School exceeded national norms on standardized tests.\n\n (Issued August 2003) Educational attainment by race and gender: 2000\n\nAfrican Americans lagged behind whites in 2000 by nearly a factor of two. However, it is less frequently observed that whites lag behind Asians by nearly as large a ratio. The group with the least education is not the African Americans, but the American Indians, Hispanic or Latino or other groups who have quite a different legacy of discrimination. The African-American community is behind the curve in education but statistics show 9 out of 10 young black adults ages 25 to 29 have completed high school or its equivalent.\n\nIn 2008, over three million degrees were awarded throughout the United States. Half of all degrees earned were bachelor's degrees. The bachelor's degree is one of the most awarded degrees for all ethnicities and races. Asians obtained bachelor's degrees more than any other race, followed by Whites. Despite high educational expectations, Hispanics are among the least educated group in the United States: 11 percent of those over age 25 have earned a bachelor's degree or higher compared with 17 percent of blacks, 30 percent of whites, and 49 percent of Asian Americans in the same age group (U.S. Census Bureau, 2003). Asians obtain more first professional degrees than any other race. A high percentage of Hispanics and American Indians/Alaska Natives own an associate's degree compared with other races. About 1–2% doctorate degrees are awarded to all races. The table below shows the number of degrees awarded for each group.\n\nStatus and Trends in the Education of Racial and Ethnic Groups (\"Source: United States Department of Education - 2008\")\n\nBetween 1978 and 2008, college enrollment rates increased for all races. The college enrollment rate is determined by the percentage of high school students who enroll in two-year or four-year college and universities immediately after high school. In 2008, the college enrollment rate for all races was 69%. Although the college rate increased for each racial and ethnic group between 1980 and 2007, the enrollment rates for Blacks and Hispanics did not increase, and the college enrollment rate for Blacks increased from 44% to 56%. Between 1980 and 2007, the college enrollment rates for Hispanics have increased from 50% to 62%. In comparison, the same rate increased from 49.8% to 77.7% for Whites. There are no data for Asians or American Indians/Alaska Natives regarding enrollment rates from the 1980s to 2007.\n\nIn 2009, the enrollment rate of high school graduates reached a historical high of 70.1% (see above for statistics on the racial gap in graduation rates). Asian Americans have the highest enrollment rate (92.2%), followed by Whites (69.2%), Blacks (68.7%), and Hispanics (59.3%).\n\nParenting methods are different across cultures, thus can have dramatic influence on educational outcomes. For instance, Asian parents often apply strict rules and parental authoritarianism to their children while many white American parents deem creativity and self-sufficiency to be more valuable. \"Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother\" by Yale Professor Amy Chua highlights some of the very important aspects in Asian parenting method in comparison to the “American way”. Chua's book has generated interests and controversies in the “Tiger Mom” parenting method and its role in determining children's education outcomes. Many Hispanic parents and their children believe that a college degree is necessary for obtaining stable and meaningful work. This attitude is reflected in the educational expectations parents hold for their children and in the expectations that young people have for themselves (U.S. Department of Education, 1995b, p. 88). High educational expectations can be found among all racial and ethnic groups regardless of their economic and social resources (p. 73). Although parents and children share high educational aims, their aspirations do not necessarily translate into postsecondary matriculation. This is especially the case for Hispanic high school students, particularly those whose parents have not attended college.\n\nParental involvement in children's education is influential to children's success at school. Teachers often view low parental involvement as a barrier to student success. Collaboration between teachers and parents is necessary when working to help a child; parents have the necessary knowledge of what is best for their child's situation. However, the student body in schools is diverse, and although teachers make an effort to try and understand each child's unique cultural beliefs, it is important that they are meeting with parents to get a clear understanding of what needs should be met in order for the student to succeed. School administrators must accommodate and account for family differences and also be supportive by promoting ways families can get involved. For example, schools can provide support by accommodating the needs of the family who have do not have transportation, schools may do so by providing external resources that may benefit the family. As referenced by Feliciano et al. (2016), educators can also account for culture by providing education about the diversity at the school. This can be achieved by creating an environment where both teachers and students learn about cultures represented among the student population.\n\nLarocquem et al. (2011) stated that family involvement may include visiting their children's class, being involved with a parent teacher organization, attending school activities, speaking to the child's class, and volunteering at school events. It is also important for families to be involved with the child's school assignments, especially by holding them accountable for completion and discussion of the work assigned. Also, educators may want to consider how parental language barriers and educational experiences affect families and the influence of contributing to their child's education. In addition, even when families want to get involved, they may not know how to collaborate with school personnel, especially for families who are Hispanic, African American, and or of low economic status. A study done by Nistler and Maiers (2000), found that although different barriers for families may inhibit participation, families reported that they would want to participate nonetheless. Larocque et al. (2011) suggest that teachers need to find out what values and expectations are held for the child, which should be done by involving parents in the decision making process.\n\nAfrican Americans were once denied educations. Even as late as 1947, about one third of African Americans over 65 were considered to lack the literacy to read and write their own names. However, by 1969, illiteracy as it had been traditionally defined, had been largely eradicated among African Americans—the number of among young adults was less than one percent, though African Americans still lag in more stringent definitions of document literacy. Inability to read, write or speak English in America today is largely an issue for immigrants, mostly from Asia and Latin America.\n\n\"Illiteracy by age and race: 1947 to 1969\"\"In thousands except percent\"\"Civilian noninstitutional population 14 yrs and over\"\"Source: US census\"\n\nEducational attainment rates change when it comes to comparing the same races against immigrants or foreign born students. Black African and Caribbean immigrant groups to the U.S report having higher levels of education than any other group. Of all foreign-born U.S. residents, foreign born Africans (those who come from the African continent) nowadays have a higher level of educational attainment than any other racial or ethnic group in the United States. They tend to be highly educated and be fluent in English. This trend was first reported in the 1990s by the \"Journal of Blacks in Higher Education\", and still continues today.\n\nAccording to data from the 2000 United States Census, \"43.8 percent of African immigrants had achieved a college degree, compared with 42.5 of Asian Americans, 28.9 percent of immigrants from Europe, Russia and Canada and 23.1 percent of the U.S. population as a whole.\" The educational attainment amount varies by group. According to the U.S. Census, out of the African populations, Nigerians reported to having the highest level of education.\n\n\"Completed High School age 25-29 (1998)\"\nUS Census surveys showed that by 1998, 89 percent of African Americans age 25 to 29 had completed high school, lagging only slightly behind 93 percent for whites. For all over the age of 25, clear majorities of whites, Asian Americans and African Americans had graduated at 88 percent, 85 percent and 77 percent, respectively. 56 percent, or barely over half of Hispanics 25 and over, had completed high school.\n\nSAT scores vs income and race\n\nSource: 1995 College Board SAT Profiles\n\nConservative African American scholars such as Thomas Sowell observe that while SAT scores are lower for students with less parental education and income. Asian Americans who took the SAT with incomes below $10,000 score 482 in math in 1995, comparable to whites earning $30–40,000 and higher and blacks over $70,000. Test scores in middle-income black communities, such as Prince George County, are still not comparable to those in non-black suburbs.\n\nMost state tests showing African American failure rates anywhere from two to four times the rate of whites, such as Washington State's WASL test, and only half to one-quarter as likely to achieve a high score, even though these tests were designed to eliminate the negative effects of bias associated with standardized multiple choice tests. It is a top goal of education reform to eliminate the \"Education gap\" between all races, though skeptics question whether legislation such as No Child Left Behind truly closes the gap just by raising expectations. Others, such as Alfie Kohn, observe it may merely penalize those who do not score as well as the most educated ethnic and income groups.\n\n\"Scored Level 3 on WASL Washington Assessment of Student Learning, Mathematics Grade 4 (1997)\nData: Office Washington State Superintendent of Instruction\n\nThe amount of education completed varies greatly between members of religions in the United States. Hindus and Jews, for example, are more likely than general population to have completed a college education, whereas members of Evangelical churches, historically Black Protestant churches and Jehovah's Witness are less likely (21%, 15% and 12% respectively).\n\nUS religions ranked by percentage reporting a college degree:\n\nAs a whole, students in the United States lagged the best Asian and European nations in the TIMSS international math and science test. However, broken down by race, US Asians scored comparably to Asian nations, white Americans scored comparably to the best European nations. Although some racial generally score lower than whites in the US, they scored as well as whites in other European nations. Hispanic Americans averaged 505, comparable to students Austria and Sweden, while African Americans at 482 were comparable to Norway and Ukraine.\n\nAchievement gaps among students may also manifest themselves in the racial and ethnic composition of special education and gifted education programs. Typically, African American and Hispanic students are enrolled in greater numbers in special education programs than their numbers would indicate in most populations, while these groups are underrepresented in gifted programs. Research shows that these disproportionate enrollment trends may be a consequence of the differences in educational achievement among groups.\n\nFor the past fifty years, there has been a gap in the educational achievement of males and females in the United States, but which gender has been disadvantaged has fluctuated over the years. In the 1970s and 1980s, data showed girls trailing behind boys in a variety of academic performance measures, specifically in test scores in math and science.\n\nData in the last twenty years shows the general trend of girls outperforming boys in academic achievement in terms of class grades across all subjects and college graduation rates, but boys scoring higher on standardized tests and being better represented in the higher-paying and more prestigious STEM fields (science, technology, engineering, and math). Male students consistently achieved worse school marks than female students from 1913 to 2011 in all countries for which there is data.\n\nAs Fletcher (2015) indicated, possible factors that helped African American college students to gain academic success via online education might be: positive pre-college educational experiences, supportive environments in college campus, involving in campus activities, positive faculty interactions and support, same race/gender relationships with peers, family support, self-confidence, future career ambitions and the ability to face racism.Students of color like African American students need a color-blind environment to support them reaching towards academic success better. In this way they are more likely to gain self-confidence and educational resilience (Tucker, 2014).\n\nTraditionally, girls have outperformed boys in reading and writing. Although this gap may be minimal in kindergarten, it grows as students continue their education. According to the 2004 National Reading Assessment measured by the US Department of Education, the gap between boys and girls, only slightly noticeable in 4th grade, left boys 14 points behind girls during their 12th grade year. On the 2008 test, female students continued to have higher average reading scores than male students at all three ages. The gap between male and female 4th graders was 7 points in 2008. By 12th grade, there was an 11-point gap between males and females.\n\nOn the 2002 National Writing Assessment, boys scored on average 17 points lower than girls in 4th grade. The average gap increased to 21 points by 8th grade and widened to 24 points by senior year in high school. In the more recent 2007 National Assessment of Writing Skills, female students continued to score higher than male students, though margins closed slightly from previous assessments. The average score for female eighth-graders was 20 points higher than males, down 1 point from the 2002 score. For twelfth-graders, females outscored males by 18 points as opposed to 21 points in 2002.\n\nAll of these assessments were conducted on a 100-point scale.\n\nWhich gender is disadvantaged by the gap in math and science achievement largely depends on how academic achievement is being measured. Female students generally have better grades in their math classes, and this gap starts off very minimal but increases with age. However, males score higher on standardized math tests, and these score gaps also increase with age. Male students also score higher on measures of college readiness, such as the AP Calculus exams and the math section of the SAT.\n\nThe differences in National Assessment for Educational Progress (NAEP) math scores between boys and girls nearly double from the 9-year-olds to the 17-year-olds. This inconsistency in which gender shows more achievement could be due to the fact that class grades, especially in middle and high school, usually depend on a student's completion of homework assignments, and studies have shown that girls report spending more time on homework than boys. The gender gap in mathematics is particularly large among the highest-achieving students; for example, there is a 2.1 to 1 male-female ratio among students who score an 800 on the math portion of the SAT.\n\nAt least one study has challenged the existence of the gender gap in mathematics. In 2008 Janet Hyde and others published a study showing that male and female students did equally well on No Child Left Behind standardized tests that were administered in second through eleventh grades in ten states. However, Hyde and her team did find gaps that favored males at the upper end of the achievement distribution and tried to examine gaps on more difficult test questions (previous research has shown that males outperform females on more challenging items), but the tests they examined lacked adequately challenging items. This raised questions about whether there is still a gender gap in math achievement.\n\nThere is also a large discrepancy between the number of men and women working in STEM fields. Women have been, and continue to be, underrepresented in these fields. This underrepresentation is evident in the distribution of college majors among men and women; from 1997 to 2007, women earned only 18% of engineering bachelor's degrees.\n\nAccording to recent data, 55 percent of college students are females and 45 percent are males. From 1995 until 2005, the number of males enrolled in college increased by 18 percent, while the number of female students rose by 27 percent. Males are enrolling in college in greater numbers than ever before, yet fewer than two-thirds of them are graduating with a bachelor's degree. The numbers of both men and women receiving a bachelor's degree have increased significantly, but the increasing rate of female college graduates exceeds the increasing rate for males.\n\nIn 2014, the percentage of women with bachelor's degrees was higher than the percentage of men with bachelor's degrees for the first time in America. Women also earn more master's degrees and doctorates than men. \n\nAlthough more women are graduating with undergraduate degrees, men are still earning disproportionately more in their lifetimes. This could be due to many factors, including different types of jobs for males and females. Females are greatly underrepresented in science and engineering fields, which are typically correlated with high lifetime earnings. Males and females also have vastly different labor market histories based on type of job and time spent in each job.\n\nHow a student interacts with and is evaluated by his or her teachers is closely correlated with that student's future academic achievement. According to researcher Thomas Good, there are two competing views of how teachers can indirectly impact the achievement of their students. The first is that teachers are more likely to give special attention and extra assistance to students who appear to be struggling in their class. In reading and writing classes, male students are often behind female students in terms of achievement. Therefore, male students are more likely to get more teacher attention, and this extra interaction could give males an advantage in terms of future achievement. The second view is that teachers demand more and show more respect toward students who they view to be high achievers, which creates a cycle in which only students who are perceived to be intelligent receive extra help and teacher attention.\n\nHow teachers perceive students’ knowledge and abilities varies by gender and influences classroom processes and student achievement in both reading and math. Teachers usually have higher expectations for students they view as higher achievers and treat these students with more respect. A study by Tach and Farkas has also found that when students are split into reading groups based on their abilities, the students in the higher-ability reading groups are more likely to demonstrate positive learning behaviors and higher achievement.\n\nTeachers are more likely to favor girls when evaluating what types of readers students seem to be. Because studies have shown that teacher perceptions of students can determine how much individualized attention a student receives and can serve as an indicator of future academic progress, if teachers underestimate males’ reading abilities and use ability grouping in their classrooms, male students might be put at a disadvantage and have their learning in reading classes be negatively affected. The opposite trend has been found in math classes. Teachers still tend to view math as a “masculine” subject and tend to have higher expectations for and better attitude towards their male students in these classes.\n\nA study by Fennema et al. has also shown that teachers tend to name males when asked to list their “best math students.” Females are more likely than males to be negatively impacted than male students by this underestimation of their math abilities. These gender-specific evaluations from teachers are implicit; usually the teachers have no idea that they are favoring one gender over the other until they are shown concrete evidence, such as a video recording of their classroom. However, even though the discrimination is implicit, it still has negative effects on both male and female students.\n\nThere is conflicting evidence about whether teacher assessments of student performance and ability are consistent with cognitive assessments like standardized tests. Teacher assessment evidence comes from a relatively small number of classrooms when compared to standardized tests, which are administered in every public school in all fifty states.\n\nThere is speculation that gender stereotyping within classrooms can also lead to differences in academic achievement and representation for female and male students. Math and science are often perceived as “masculine” subjects because they lead to success in “masculine” fields, such as medicine and engineering. English and history, on the other hand, are often perceived as “feminine” subjects because they are more closely aligned with “feminine” jobs, such as teaching or care work. These stereotypes can influence student achievement in these areas.\n\nResearch on stereotype threat has shown that gender stereotypes decrease the mathematical self-esteem of many female students, and that this lack of academic confidence leads to anxiety and poorer performance on math exams.\n\nHow a child's parents view his or her skills can also contribute to the gender achievement gap in education. A study by Jacobs and Eccles has shown that adults rate female children as having better social skills than male children, and that girls are more likely to be seen as \"good children\" than boys. These gender-based stereotypes can perpetuate the gender achievement gap in education by influencing parents' perceptions of their children's skills, and these perceptions can influence the types of activities and subjects parents steer their children toward.\n\nThe gender achievement gap, measured by standardized test scores, suspensions, and absences, in favor of female students, is larger at worse schools and among lower-income households. So poverty and school quality are partially responsible for the gap. \n\nGirls tend to have better self-regulation skills than boys. Self-regulation skills correlate with time spent on homework and time spent taking notes in class. This contributes to girls getting better grades than boys in all subject. See Sex differences in psychology\n\nIt is important to address the gender achievement gap in education because failure to cultivate the academic talents of any one group will have aggregate negative consequences. If women are underrepresented in STEM fields, and if men are underrepresented in the social sciences and humanities, both genders are missing opportunities to develop diverse skill sets that can help them in the workplace.\n\nIf the gender achievement gap in education continues to exist, so does the stereotype that medicine, science, and engineering are all “masculine” fields and that women belong in fields like teaching, counseling, or social work. This stereotype can lead to the image that women who pursue careers in the STEM fields are seen as “nerdy” or “geeky,” and this can have a detrimental effect on the self-esteem of females who do choose to enter these fields.\n\nResearchers have found that the gender achievement gap has a large impact on the future career choices of high-achieving students. Part of this is a result of the college majors that men and women choose; men are more likely to major in engineering or the hard sciences, while women are more likely to receive degrees in English, psychology, or sociology. Therefore, men are statistically more likely to enter careers that have more potential for higher long-term earnings than women.\n\nThe careers that are aligned with these majors have different levels of prestige and different salaries, which can lead to a gender wage gap. U.S. Census data indicates that women who work full-time earn only 77% of what their male counterparts earn. For men and women who are ten years out of college, women earn only 69% of the salaries of their male workers.\n\nThere have been several studies done of interventions aimed at reducing the gender achievement gap in science classes. Some interventions, such as instituting mentoring programs aimed at women or restructuring the course curriculum, have had limited success. The most successful interventions have been a form of psychological interventions called values affirmation. In a famous study of women's achievement in college science by Miyake et al., values affirmation was successful in reducing the differences between male and female academic achievement in college-level introductory physics classes, and it has been particularly effective at combating the psychological phenomenon known as stereotype threat.\n\nValues affirmation exercises require students to either write about their most important values or their least important values two times at the beginning of the 15-week course. After this intervention, the modal grades of women enrolled in the course increased from a C to a B. Psychological interventions such as this one show promise for increasing women's achievement in math and science courses and reducing the achievement gap that exists between the genders in these subject areas, but further research will need to be done in order to determine whether the positive effects are long-lasting.\n\nAnother explanation to address this educational gap is the lack of resources attainable by certain groups of students. A study found that there is a need for financial literacy for students enrolled in colleges and universities. Specifically, there is a need for student knowledge about loans, budgeting, and time requirements for degree completion . Focus group results in the same study concluded that students in search of financial aid information believe that there will be a lack of understanding among advisors and staff regarding minority student's cultural/identity based circumstances. As a result of this belief, many students rather just not seek any services. \n\nOn the high school level, a report finds that the greater the amount of people of color enrolled at any particular school, the less likely that school has any computer science courses whatsoever . Nationwide economics indicate 1.3 million new jobs in the tech industry by 2022. Meanwhile, African Americans and Latinos only make up about 5 percent of the technical work force. \n\nSupplemental funding for targeted disadvantaged school districts in Ohio showed a reduction in performance gaps between disadvantaged districts and other districts. Supplementing state funds for the districts with higher amount of disadvantaged students produced benefits in the form of student achievement. IDA's or individual development account initiatives introduced in the 1990s to address poverty was found on the belief that poor family's should have access to asset development in order to break the cycle of poverty. As of now most IDA's main focus is on home ownership or starting small businesses. There has been a push for partnerships between community agencies and higher education institutions that would offer IDA's to encourage lower income individuals to turn towards higher education. \n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52951646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52951646", "title": "Anna J. Hamilton", "text": "Anna J. Hamilton\n\nAnna J. Hamilton (April 20, 1860 - ) was an American educator, journalist, writer, and editor from the U.S. state of Kentucky. She was one of the editors for Kentucky on \"A Woman of the Century\", and was engaged in editorial work on the \"National encyclopedia of America\". Hamilton served as principal of Semple Collegiate School in Louisville, after taking over its management in 1900, along with Annie Moore.\n\nAnna J. Hamilton was born in Louisville on April 20, 1860. She was descended on the maternal side from the old Kentucky family of Caldwells, and on the paternal side from the Hamiltons, of Pennsylvania. She was educated in the public schools of Louisville and was graduated from the girls' high school.\n\nHamilton served as chair in the Normal School, being known as an enthusiastic educator. She was a writer of both prose and poetry. Her poems were published in the local journals and in various periodicals. Much of her time was on editorial work. For a year, she edited the children's column in a prominent educational journal. She was one of the editors for Kentucky on \"A Woman of the Century\", and was engaged in editorial work on the \"National encyclopedia of America\". She was a member of the library committee from Kentucky for the World's Fair. The committee purpose was to establish a woman's library, and she collected and contributed all the volumes written by the women of Kentucky.\n\nShe was a member of the Filson Club, and the Daughters of the American Revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170", "title": "Architect", "text": "Architect\n\nAn architect is a person who plans, designs, and reviews the construction of buildings. To \"practice architecture\" means to provide services in connection with the design of buildings and the space within the site surrounding the buildings, that have as their principal purpose human occupancy or use. Etymologically, \"architect\" derives from the Latin \"architectus\", which derives from the Greek (\"arkhi-\", chief + \"tekton\", builder), i.e., chief builder.\n\nProfessionally, an architect's decisions affect public safety, and thus an architect must undergo specialized training consisting of advanced education and a \"practicum\" (or \"internship\") for practical experience to earn a license to practice architecture. Practical, technical, and academic requirements for becoming an architect vary by jurisdiction.\n\nThroughout ancient and medieval history, most of the architectural design and construction was carried out by artisans—such as stone masons and carpenters, rising to the role of master builder. Until modern times, there was no clear distinction between architect and engineer. In Europe, the titles \"architect\" and \"engineer\" were primarily geographical variations that referred to the same person, often used interchangeably.It is suggested that various developments in technology and mathematics allowed the development of the professional 'gentleman' architect, separate from the hands-on craftsman. Paper was not used in Europe for drawing until the 15th century but became increasingly available after 1500. Pencils were used more often for drawing by 1600. The availability of both allowed pre-construction drawings to be made by professionals. Concurrently, the introduction of linear perspective and innovations such as the use of different projections to describe a three-dimensional building in two dimensions, together with an increased understanding of dimensional accuracy, helped building designers communicate their ideas. However, the development was gradual. Until the 18th-century, buildings continued to be designed and set out by craftsmen with the exception of high-status projects.\n\nIn most developed countries, only qualified people with an appropriate license, certification, or registration with a relevant body, often governmental, may legally practice architecture. Such licensure usually requires an accredited university degree, successful completion of exams, and a training period. The use of terms and titles and the representation of oneself as an architect is restricted to licensed individuals by law, although in general, derivatives such as \"architectural designer\" are often not legally protected.\n\nTo practice architecture implies the ability to practice independently of supervision. The term \"building design professional\" (or \"Design professional)\", by contrast, is a much broader term that includes professionals who practice independently under an alternate profession, such as engineering professionals, or those who assist in the practice architecture under the supervision of a licensed architect, such as \"architectural technologists\" and \"intern architects\". In many places, independent, non-licensed individuals may perform design services outside the professional restrictions, such design houses and other smaller structures.\n\nIn the architectural profession, technical and environmental knowledge, design and construction management, and an understanding of business are as important as design. However, the design is the driving force throughout the project and beyond. An architect accepts a commission from a client. The commission might involve preparing feasibility reports, building audits, the design of a building or of several buildings, structures, and the spaces among them. The architect participates in developing the requirements the client wants in the building. Throughout the project (planning to occupancy), the architect co-ordinates a design team. Structural, mechanical, and electrical engineers and other specialists, are hired by the client or the architect, who must ensure that the work is co-ordinated to construct the design.\n\nThe architect hired by a client is responsible for creating a design concept that meets the requirements of that client and provides a facility suitable to the required use. In that, the architect must meet with and question the client to ascertain all the requirements and nuances of the planned project. Often the full brief is not entirely clear at the beginning, entailing a degree of risk in the design undertaking. The architect may make early proposals to the client which may rework the terms of the brief. The program or brief is essential to producing a project that meets all the needs of the owner — it is a guide for the architect in creating the design concept.\n\nIt is generally expected that the design proposal(s)is both imaginative as well as pragmatic, but the precise extent and nature of these expectations will vary, depending on the place, time, finance, culture, and available crafts and technology in which the design takes place.\n\nDesigning buildings is a very complex and demanding undertaking, no matter what the scale of the project might be. A strong degree of foresight is a prerequisite. Any design concept must at a very early stage in its generation take into account a great number of issues and variables which include qualities of space(s), the end-use and life-cycle of these proposed spaces, connections, relations, and aspects between spaces including how they are put together as well as the impact of proposals on the immediate and wider locality. Selection of appropriate materials and technology must be considered, tested and reviewed at an early stage in the design to ensure there are no setbacks (such as higher-than-expected costs) which may occur later. The site and its environs, as well as the culture and history of the place, will also influence the design. The design must also countenance increasing concerns with environmental sustainability. The architect may introduce (intentionally or not), to greater or lesser degrees, aspects of mathematics and architecture, new or current architectural theory, or references to architectural history.\n\nA key part of the design is that the architect often consults with engineers, surveyors and other specialists throughout the design, ensuring that aspects such as the structural supports and air conditioning elements are coordinated in the scheme as a whole. The control and planning of construction costs are also a part of these consultations. Coordination of the different aspects involves a high degree of specialized communication, including advanced computer technology such as BIM (Building Information Management), CAD, and cloud-based technologies.\n\nAt all times in the design, the architect reports back to the client who may have reservations or recommendations, introducing a further variable into the design.\n\nArchitects deal with local and federal jurisdictions about regulations and building codes. The architect might need to comply with local planning and zoning laws, such as required setbacks, height limitations, parking requirements, transparency requirements (windows), and land use. Some established jurisdictions require adherence to design and historic preservation guidelines. Health and safety risks form a vital part of the current design, and in many jurisdictions, design reports and records are required which include ongoing considerations such as materials and contaminants, waste management and recycling, traffic control and fire safety.\n\nPreviously, architects employed drawings to illustrate and generate design proposals. While conceptual sketches are still widely used by architects, computer technology has now become the industry standard. However, design may include the use of photos, collages, prints, linocuts, and other media in design production. \nIncreasingly, computer software such as BIM is shaping how architects work. BIM technology allows for the creation of a virtual building that serves as an information database for the sharing of design and building information throughout the life-cycle of the building's design, construction and maintenance.\n\nAs current buildings are now known to be high emitters of carbon into the atmosphere, increasing controls are being placed on buildings and associated technology to reduce emissions, increase energy efficiency, and make use of renewable energy sources. Renewable energy sources may be developed within the proposed building or via local or national renewable energy providers. As a result, the architect is required to remain abreast of current regulations which are continually tightening. Some new developments exhibit extremely low energy use.\nHowever, the architect is also increasingly required to provide initiatives in a wider environmental sense, such as making provision for low-energy transport, natural daylighting instead of artificial lighting, natural ventilation instead of air conditioning, pollution, and waste management, use of recycled materials and employment of materials which can be easily recycled in the future.\n\nAs the design becomes more advanced and detailed, specifications and detail designs are made of all the elements and components of the building. Techniques in the production of a building are continually advancing which places a demand on the architect to ensure that he or she remains up to date with these advances.\n\nDepending on the client's needs and the jurisdiction's requirements, the spectrum of the architect's services during construction stages may be extensive (detailed document preparation and construction review) or less involved (such as allowing a contractor to exercise considerable design-build functions).\n\nArchitects typically put projects to tender on behalf of their clients, advise on the award of the project to a general contractor, facilitate and then administer a contract of agreement which is often between the client and the contractor. This contract is legally binding and covers a very wide range of aspects including the insurances and commitments of all stakeholders, the status of the design documents, provisions for the architect's access, and procedures for the control of the works as they proceed. Depending on the type of contract utilized, provisions for further sub-contract tenders may be required. The architect may require that some elements are covered by a warranty which specifies the expected life and other aspects of the material, product or work.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, prior notification to the relevant local authority must be given before commencement on site, thus giving the local authority notice to carry out independent inspections. The architect will then review and inspect the progress of the work in coordination with the local authority.\n\nThe architect will typically review contractor shop drawings and other submittals, prepare and issue site instructions, and provide Certificates for Payment to the contractor (see also Design-bid-build) which is based on the work done to date as well as any materials and other goods purchased or hired. In the United Kingdom and other countries, a quantity surveyor is often part of the team to provide cost consulting. With very large, complex projects, an independent construction manager is sometimes hired to assist in the design and to manage construction.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, mandatory certification or assurance of the completed work or part of works is required. This demand for certification entails a high degree of risk - therefore, regular inspections of the work as it progresses on site is required to ensure that is in compliance with the design itself as well as with all relevant statutes and permissions.\n\nRecent decades have seen the rise of specializations within the profession. Many architects and architectural firms focus on certain project types (for example, healthcare, retail, public housing, event management), technological expertise or project delivery methods. Some architects specialize as building code, building envelope, sustainable design, technical writing, historic preservation(US) or conservation (UK), accessibility and other forms of specialist consultants.\n\nMany architects elect to move into real estate (property) development, corporate facilities planning, project management, construction management, interior design, city planning, or other related fields.\n\nAlthough there are variations from place to place, most of the world's architects are required to register with the appropriate jurisdiction. To do so, architects are typically required to meet three common requirements: education, experience, and examination.\n\nEducational requirements generally consist of a university degree in architecture. The experience requirement for degree candidates is usually satisfied by a practicum or internship (usually two to three years, depending on jurisdiction). Finally, a Registration Examination or a series of exams is required prior to licensure.\n\nProfessionals engaged in the design and supervision of construction projects prior to the late 19th century were not necessarily trained in a separate architecture program in an academic setting. Instead, they often trained under established architects. Prior to modern times, there was no distinction between architects, engineers and often artists, and the title used varied depending on geographical location. They often carried the title of master builder or surveyor after serving a number of years as an apprentice (such as Sir Christopher Wren). The formal study of architecture in academic institutions played a pivotal role in the development of the profession as a whole, serving as a focal point for advances in architectural technology and theory.\n\nArchitects' fee structures are typically based on a percentage of construction value, as a rate per unit area of the proposed construction, hourly rates or a fixed lump sum fee. Combinations of these structures are also common. Fixed fees are usually based on a project's allocated construction cost and can range between 4 and 12% of new construction cost, for commercial and institutional projects, depending on a project's size and complexity. Residential projects range from 12 to 20%. Renovation projects typically command higher percentages, as high as 15-20%.\n\nOverall billings for architectural firms range widely, depending on location and economic climate. Billings have traditionally been dependent on the local economic conditions but, with rapid globalization, this is becoming less of a factor for larger international firms. Salaries also vary, depending on experience, position within the firm (staff architect, partner, or shareholder, etc.), and the size and location of the firm.\n\nA number of national professional organizations exist to promote career and business development in architecture.\n\nThe American Institute of Architects (AIA) USA\n\nRoyal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) UK\n\nArchitects Registration Board (ARB) UK\n\nThe Australian Institute of Architects (AIA) Australia\n\nAssociation of Licensed Architects \n(ALA) USA\n\nA wide variety of prizes is awarded by national professional associations and other bodies, recognizing accomplished architects, their buildings, structures, and professional careers.\n\nThe most lucrative award an architect can receive is the Pritzker Prize, sometimes termed the \"Nobel Prize for architecture.\" Other prestigious architectural awards are the Royal Gold Medal, the AIA Gold Medal (USA), AIA Gold Medal (Australia), and the Praemium Imperiale.\n\nArchitects in the UK, who have made contributions to the profession through design excellence or architectural education, or have in some other way advanced the profession, might until 1971 be elected Fellows of the Royal Institute of British Architects and can write FRIBA after their name if they feel so inclined. Those elected to chartered membership of the RIBA after 1971 may use the initials RIBA but cannot use the old ARIBA and FRIBA. An Honorary Fellow may use the initials Hon. FRIBA. and an International Fellow may use the initials Int. FRIBA. Architects in the US, who have made contributions to the profession through design excellence or architectural education, or have in some other way advanced the profession, are elected Fellows of the American Institute of Architects and can write FAIA after their name. Architects in Canada, who have made outstanding contributions to the profession through contribution to research, scholarship, public service, or professional standing to the good of architecture in Canada, or elsewhere, may be recognized as a Fellow of the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada and can write FRAIC after their name. In Hong Kong, those elected to chartered membership may use the initial HKIA, and those who have made a special contribution after nomination and election by The Hong Kong Institute of Architects (HKIA), may be elected as fellow members of HKIA and may use FHKIA after their name.\n\nArchitects in the Philippines and Filipino communities overseas (whether they are Filipinos or not), especially those who also profess other jobs at the same time, are addressed and introduced as \"Architect\", rather than \"Sir/Madam\" in speech or \"Mr./Mrs./Ms.\" (\"G./Gng./Bb.\" in Filipino) before surnames. That word is used either in itself or before the given name or surname.\n"}
{"id": "38922230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38922230", "title": "Artspeak", "text": "Artspeak\n\nArtspeak is a computer language conceived by Jacob T. Schwartz at New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. Until 2011, the only known compiler/interpreter was written for the CDC 6600, a mainframe computer. In order to program in Artspeak on the CDC 6600, one had to use punch cards and utilize batch processing.\n\nArtspeak was a specialized language that worked with a single-color graphical plotter to produce graphical output on a 10-inch by 10-inch sheet of paper. It used simple, English language-based statements to draw elemental shapes, including circles, points, text, and many types of curves (including lines).\n\nIn 2011, Ron Schnell (author of Dunnet) found an old draft manual for the language, and after discovering that the language ceased to exist, wrote it from scratch in Python.\n\nThe new version of Artspeak outputs to a computer monitor, as opposed to a plotter, and allows local and server storage of Artspeak programs. There are other differences from the original Artspeak, all of which are detailed in the reference guide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1031971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1031971", "title": "Baby Einstein", "text": "Baby Einstein\n\nBaby Einstein is a line of multimedia products, including direct-to-video programs, CDs, books, flashcards, toys, and baby gear that specialize in interactive activities for infants and toddlers, created by Julie Aigner-Clark. \nThe videos are known for showing babies and toddlers under four years simple patterns, puppet shows, and familiar objects, such as everyday items, animals, and toys that are often accompanied by reorchestrated classical music written by composers such as Johann Sebastian Bach, Ludwig Van Beethoven, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and many others constructed for an easy, relaxing way meant for a baby's ear.\n\nBaby Einstein was introduced to the public in 1996 and remained a small company until Clark sold to Disney. Between November 2001 and September 2013, Disney owned and operated the Baby Einstein brand. Starting in October 2013, Kids 2, Inc. owns and operates the Baby Einstein brand.\n\nThe Baby Einstein Company was founded in 1996 by former teacher and stay-at-home mom Julie Aigner-Clark at her home in suburban Alpharetta, Georgia, as I Think I Can Productions. Aigner-Clark and her husband invested $18,000 of their savings to produce the initial product, a VHS they named \"Baby Einstein\" and later sold as \"Language Nursery\".\n\nThe original video shows a variety of toys and visuals interspersed with music, stories, numbers, and words of many languages. Eventually, the video was marketed across the United States, Europe, Asia, and Australia. Other videos followed, some featuring the Clarks' two daughters, Aspen and Sierra, as well as other children.\n\nIt quickly became a multimillion-dollar franchise; its revenue grew from $1 million in 1998 to $25 million in 2001. In October 1998, Julie Aigner-Clark renamed the company the Baby Einstein Company, and in February 2000 gave distribution rights of the company's home videos to Artisan Entertainment and Family Home Entertainment, both now acquired by and folded into Lionsgate Home Entertainment. In November 2001, Julie Aigner-Clark sold Baby Einstein to The Walt Disney Company.\n\nThe concept and popularity of Baby Einstein expanded as a Disney property. Educational toys and additional videos were developed. Baby Einstein was also the source of inspiration for a Preschool-aimed television series called \"Little Einsteins\", created jointly by Disney and Curious Pictures. The series aired episodes on Playhouse Disney from 2005-2009 and has since been airing reruns on Disney Junior the channel.\n\nThe success of Baby Einstein was estimated to be nearly $400 million based on revenues. Julie was named \"Entrepreneur of the Year\" and won various awards, and one in three U.S. households with babies were found to own at least one Baby Einstein product. It received positive media and Aigner-Clark appeared on the \"Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"Good Morning America\", \"The Today Show\", and \"USA Today\", among others. President George W. Bush mentioned the Baby Einstein Company in his 2007 State of the Union address, which Aigner-Clark was invited to attend.\n\nIn 2008, Clark, along with actress Jennifer Garner, hosted a tenth anniversary party for \"Baby Einstein\". Clark had also announced plans to launch a toddler brand called \"Einstein Pals\", including videos, but it has since been abandoned.\n\nAs a result of Baby Einstein being named for Albert Einstein, royalties had to be paid to Corbis which compensates the Einstein estate. This made Einstein one of the top five earning dead celebrities.\n\nIn October 2013, Kids 2, Inc. acquired the Baby Einstein brand from Disney.\n\nIn May 2006, the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood (CCFC) filed a complaint with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) against the Baby Einstein Company and similar companies for false advertising. The CCFC alleged false advertising based on an American Academy of Pediatrics recommendation that children under two should be discouraged from watching television. It also cited studies showing that only 6% of parents were aware of that recommendation, whereas 49% thought educational videos were very important in children's intellectual development.\n\nIn December 2007, the FTC closed the complaint, noting that some of the CCFC's claims did not raise issues under the FTC's substantiation rules. The FTC also considered the redesign of the Baby Einstein website, which removed certain product testimonials and product descriptions, as well as the company's promise to make sure that advertising claims about products' educational and developmental value would be properly substantiated. However, the websites of Baby Einstein in languages other than English are not all modified in the same way. For example, its official Chinese website still contains the product effect statement as \"For example, the \"Baby Van Gogh\" released by us can initiate your baby's interest and recognition of colors.\"\n\nA 2010 study published in \"Psychological Science\" demonstrated that children who viewed the videos regularly for one month, with or without their parents, \"showed no greater understanding of words from the program than kids who never saw it\". On the other hand, children who were taught by their parents improved the most; researchers speculated that this was probably because children learn best \"through meaningful gestures and interactive communication with parents\". In response to these new findings, Disney offered refunds to parents whose children did not see improvement, even though Robert Iger, CEO of the Walt Disney Company, demanded a retraction (of the press release) when a similarly unsupportive study was announced in 2007.\n\nThe 2007 study, based on telephone interviews with parents, had been published in the \"Journal of Pediatrics\" and resulted in a lawsuit by the company's founders due to widespread negative media coverage stemming from the article. The press release announcing the study explained that for each hour spent watching baby DVDs/videos, infants understood on average six to eight fewer words than infants who did not watch them. The University of Washington researchers Frederick Zimmerman, Dimitri Christakis, and Andrew Meltzoff had claimed that, among infants aged 8 to 16 months, exposure to \"baby DVDs/videos\" such as \"Baby Einstein\" and \"Brainy Baby\" was strongly associated with lower scores on a Communicative Development Inventory, a standard language development test. The Baby Einstein Company expressed \"serious concerns about the many contradictions\" in the study. Although University of Washington President Mark Emmert rejected Disney's claims, in 2010 the university settled with the founders, paying out $175,000 in back legal fees and turned over the study's data to the Baby Einstein founders.\n\nIn March 2008, the \"Journal of Pediatrics\" released a study by Harvard University and the Boston Children's Hospital's Center on Media and Child Health showing that television viewing is, “neither beneficial nor deleterious to child cognitive and language abilities” for children under 2, in a study that examined all television rather than just education DVDs for babies. In January 2010, the founders requested that a judge order the University of Washington to release records for the 2007 study, saying, “Given that other research studies have not shown the same outcomes, we would like the raw data and analytical methods from the Washington studies so we can audit their methodology, and perhaps duplicate the studies\". In 2013 the original dataset was reanalyzed by independent scholars who concluded that it was safest to suggest that baby videos had minimal impact on language development and that linking baby videos to decreased language development was not well supported by the data.\n\n"}
{"id": "4277636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4277636", "title": "Bannimus", "text": "Bannimus\n\nHistorically, bannimus (Latin: \"we banish\") was the form of expulsion of any individual from the University of Oxford, by putting the proctorial edict up in some public place, as a denunciation or promulgation of it. It also served to prevent the individual from claiming the cause of expulsion was unknown.\n\nIndividuals can still be expelled today, as well as \"rusticated\", that is, when a student is sent down or banished from the University for a period of time before being allowed to return and further their education.\n\nThe term \"bannimus\" is related to \"bannition\", which is the general expulsion of an individual from a university.\n"}
{"id": "23198559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23198559", "title": "Bertha Harmer", "text": "Bertha Harmer\n\nBertha Harmer (2 March 1885 – 14 December 1934) was a Canadian nurse, writer and educator, known for writing the textbook \"Textbook of the Principles and Practice of Nursing\".\n\nHarmer was born in Port Hope, Ontario, the daughter of a railway carpenter. After finishing high school and working for several years,\nshe earned a nursing degree from the Toronto General Hospital in 1913,\nand a bachelor's degree in administration and teaching from Teachers College, Columbia University in New York City in 1915.\n\nIn 1922, as a nursing teacher at St. Luke's Hospital Training School for Nurses in New York, Harmer published the first edition of her textbook.\nShe joined the faculty of the Yale School of Nursing in 1923, and remained there until 1927; at Yale, she was also First Assistant Superintendent of Nurses at the New Haven Hospital in Connecticut. During this time she also published a second book, \"Methods and Principles of Teaching the Practice of Nursing\".\n\nShe left her position at Yale in 1927 for health reasons, but returned to Teachers College where she earned a master's degree.\nIn 1928 she moved to McGill University in Montreal, where she became director of McGill's nursing school.\nAt McGill, in the height of the Great Depression, she had to work hard to prevent the school from closing.\nBy 1934 her health had again become a problem for her; she resigned from McGill, and died that year.\n\nShe revised her book twice, publishing a second edition in 1928 and a third edition in 1934.\nIts publisher, Macmillan, published fourth and fifth editions in 1939 and 1955, adding Virginia Henderson as a second author but keeping Harmer's name because of the popularity of the book.\n"}
{"id": "2965243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2965243", "title": "Captive breeding", "text": "Captive breeding\n\nCaptive breeding is the process of maintaining plants or animals in controlled environments, such as wildlife reserves, zoos, botanic gardens, and other conservation facilities. It is sometimes employed to help species that are being threatened by human activities such as habitat loss, fragmentation, over hunting or fishing, pollution, predation, disease, and parasitism. In some cases a captive breeding program can save a species from extinction, but for success, breeders must consider many factors—including genetic, ecological, behavioral, and ethical issues. Most successful attempts involve the cooperation and coordination of many institutions.\n\nCaptive breeding techniques began with the first human domestication of animals such as goats, and plants like wheat, at least 10,000 years ago. These practices were then expanded with the rise of the first zoos, which started as royal menageries in Egypt and its popularity, which led to the increase in zoos worldwide. The first actual captive breeding programs were only started in the 1960s. These programs, such as the Arabian Oryx breeding program from The Phoenix Zoo in 1962, were aimed at the reintroduction of these species into the wild. These programs expanded under The Endangered Species Act of 1973 of the Nixon Administration, which focused on protecting endangered species and their habitats to preserve biodiversity. Since then, research and conservation centers have been housed in zoos, such as the Institute for Conservation Research at the San Diego Zoo founded in 1975 and expanded in 2009, which have contributed to the successful conservation efforts of species such as the Hawaiian Crow.\n\nThe breeding of species of conservation concern is coordinated by cooperative breeding programs containing international studbooks and coordinators, who evaluate the roles of individual animals and institutions from a global or regional perspective. These studbooks contain information on birth date, gender, location, and lineage (if known), which helps determine survival and reproduction rates, number of founders of the population, and inbreeding coefficients. A species coordinator reviews the information in studbooks and determines a breeding strategy that would produce most advantageous offspring.\n\nIf two compatible animals are found at different zoos, the animals may be transported for mating, but this is stressful, which could in turn make mating less likely. However, this is still a popular breeding method among European zoological organizations. Artificial fertilization (by shipping semen) is another option, but male animals can experience stress during semen collection, and the same goes for females during the artificial insemination procedure. Furthermore, this approach yields lower-quality semen, because shipping requires extending the life of the sperm for the transit time.\n\nThere are regional programmes for the conservation of endangered species:\n\nThe objective of many captive populations is to hold similar levels of genetic diversity to what is found in wild populations. As captive populations are usually small and maintained in artificial environments, genetics factors such as adaptation, inbreeding and loss of diversity can be a major concern.\n\nAdaptive differences between plant and animal populations arise due to variations in environmental pressures. In the case of captive breeding prior to reintroduction into the wild, it's possible for species to evolve to adapt to the captive environment, rather than their natural environment.[11] Reintroducing a plant or animal to an environment dissimilar to the one they were originally from can cause fixation of traits that may not be suited for that environment leaving the individual disadvantaged. Selection intensity, initial genetic diversity, and effective population size can impact how much the species adapts to its captive environment. Modeling works indicate that the duration of the programs (i.e., time from the foundation of the captive population to the last release event) is an important determinant of reintroduction success. Success is maximized for intermediate project duration allowing the release of a sufficient number of individuals, while minimizing the number of generations undergoing relaxed selection in captivity. Can be minimized by reducing the number of generations in captivity, minimizing selection for captive adaptations by creating environment similar to natural environment and maximizing the number of immigrants from wild populations.\n\nOne consequence of small captive population size is the increased impact of genetic drift, where genes have the potential to fix or disappear completely by chance, thereby reducing genetic diversity. Other factors that can impact genetic diversity in a captive population are bottlenecks and initial population size. Bottlenecks, such as rapid decline in the population or a small initial population impacts genetic diversity. Loss can be minimized by establishing a population with a large enough number of founders to genetically represent the wild population, maximize population size, maximize ratio of effective population size to actual population size, and minimize the number of generations in captivity.\n\nInbreeding is when organisms mate with closely related individuals, lowering heterozygosity in a population. Although inbreeding can be relatively common, when it results in a reduction in fitness it is known as inbreeding depression. The detrimental effects of inbreeding depression are especially prevalent in smaller populations and can therefore be extensive in captive populations. To make these populations the most viable, it is important to monitor and reduce the effects of deleterious allele expression caused by inbreeding depression and to restore genetic diversity. Comparing inbred populations against non-inbred or less-inbred populations can help determine the extent of detrimental effects if any are present. Closely monitoring the possibility of inbreeding within the captive bred population is also key to the success of reintroduction into the species' native habitat. \n\nOutbreeding is when organisms mate with unrelated individuals, increasing heterozygosity in a population. Although new diversity is often beneficial, if there a large genetic differences between the two individuals it can result in outbreeding depression. This is a reduction in fitness, similar to that of inbreeding depression, but arises from a number of different mechanisms, including taxonomic issues, chromosomal differences, sexual incompatibility, or adaptive differences between the individuals. A common cause is chromosomal ploidy differences and hybridization between individuals leading to sterility. The best example is in the orangutan, which, prior to taxonomic revisions in the 1980s would be commonly mated in captive populations producing hybrid orangutans with lower fitness . If chromosomal ploidy is ignored during reintroduction, restoration efforts would fail due to sterile hybrids in the wild. If there are large genetic differences between individuals originally from distant populations, those individuals should only be bred in circumstances where no other mates exist.\n\nCaptive breeding can contribute to changes in behavior in animals that have been reintroduced to the wild. Released animals are commonly less capable of hunting or foraging for food, which leads to starvation, possibly because the young animals spent the critical learning period in captivity. Released animals often display more risk-taking behavior and fail to avoid predators. Golden lion tamarin mothers often die in the wild before having offspring because they cannot climb and forage. This leads to continuing population declines despite reintroduction as the species are unable to produce viable offspring. Training can improve anti-predator skills, but its effectiveness varies.\n\nSalmon bred in captivity have shown similar declines in caution and are killed by predators when young. However, salmon that were reared in an enriched environment with natural prey showed less risk-taking behaviors and were more likely to survive.\n\nA study on mice has found that after captive breeding had been in place for multiple generations and these mice were \"released\" to breed with wild mice, that the captive-born mice bred amongst themselves instead of with the wild mice. This suggests that captive breeding may affect mating preferences, and has implications for the success of a reintroduction program.\n\nHuman mediated recovery of species can unintentionally promote maladaptive behaviors in wild populations. In 1980 the number of wild Chatham Island Black Robins was reduced to a single mating pair. Intense management of populations helped the population recover and by 1998 there were 200 individuals. During recovery scientists observed \"rim laying\" an egg laying habit where individuals laid eggs on the rim of the nest instead of the center. Rim laid eggs never hatched. To combat this land managers pushed the egg to the center of the nest, which greatly increased reproduction. However, by allowing this maladaptive trait to persist, over half the population were now rim layers. Genetic studies found that this was an autosomal dominant mendelian trait that was selected for due to human intervention\n\nThe De Wildt Cheetah and Wildlife Centre, established in South Africa in 1971, has a cheetah captive breeding program. Between 1975 and 2005, 242 litters were born with a total of 785 cubs. The survival rate of cubs was 71.3% for the first twelve months and 66.2% for older cubs, validating the fact that cheetahs can be bred successfully (and their endangerment decreased). It also indicated that failure in other breeding habitats may be due to \"poor\" sperm morphology.\n\nWild Tasmanian devils have declined by 90% due to a transmissible cancer called Devil Facial Tumor Disease. A captive insurance population program has started, but the captive breeding rates at the moment are lower than they need to be. Keeley, Fanson, Masters, and McGreevy (2012) sought to \"increase our understanding of the estrous cycle of the devil and elucidate potential causes of failed male-female pairings\" by examining temporal patterns of fecal progestogen and corticosterone metabolite concentrations. They found that the majority of unsuccessful females were captive-born, suggesting that if the species' survival depended solely on captive breeding, the population would probably disappear.\n\nIn 2010, the Oregon Zoo found that Columbia Basin pygmy rabbit pairings based on familiarity and preferences resulted in a significant increase in breeding success.\n\nTo found a captive breeding population with adequate genetic diversity, breeders usually select individuals from different source populations—ideally, at least 20-30 individuals. Founding populations for captive breeding programs have often had fewer individuals than ideal because of their threatened state, leaving them more susceptible to challenges such as inbreeding depression.\n\nTo overcome challenges of captive breeding such as adaptive differences, loss of genetic diversity, inbreeding depression, and outbreeding depression and get desired results, captive breeding programs use many monitoring methods. Artificial insemination is used to produce the desired offspring from individuals who don't mate naturally to reduce effects of mating closely related individuals such as inbreeding. Methods as seen in panda pornography allow programs to mate chosen individuals by encouraging mating behavior. As a concern in captive breeding is to minimize the effects of breeding closely related individuals, microsatellite regions from an organisms genome can be used to determine amounts of relationship among founders to minimize relatedness and pick the most distant individuals to breed. This method has successfully been used in the captive breeding of the California condor and the Guam rail. The maximum avoidance of inbreeding (MAI) scheme allows control at a group level rather than an individual level by rotating individuals between groups to avoid inbreeding.\n\nGetting captive wild animals to breed naturally can be a difficult task. Giant panda for example lose interest in mating once they are captured, and female giant pandas only experience estrus once a year, which only lasts for 48 to 72 hours Many researchers have turned to artificial insemination in an attempt to increase the populations of endangered animals. It may be used for many reasons, including to overcome physical breeding difficulties, to allow a male to inseminate a much larger number of females, to control the paternity of offspring, and to avoid injury incurred during natural mating. It also creates more genetically diverse captive populations, enabling captive facilities to easily share genetic material with each other without the need to move animals. Scientist of the Justus-Liebig-University of Giessen, Germany, from the working group of Michael Lierz, developed a novel technique for semen collection and artificial insemination in parrots producing the world's first macaw by assisted reproduction\n\nAnimal species can be preserved in gene banks, which consist of a cryogenic facilities used to store live sperm, eggs, or embryos in ultracold conditions. The Zoological Society of San Diego has established a \"frozen zoo\" to store frozen tissue from the world's rarest and most endangered species samples using cryopreservation techniques. At present, there has been more than 355 species, including mammals, reptiles, and birds.Cryopreservation can be performed as oocyte cryopreservation before fertilization, or as embryo cryopreservation after fertilization. Cryogenically preserved specimens can potentially be used to revive breeds that are endangered o rextinct, for breed improvement, crossbreeding, research and development. This method can be used for virtually indefinite storage of material without deterioration over a much greater time-period relative to all other methods of ex situ conservation. However, cryo-conservation can be an expensive strategy and requires long term hygienic and economic commitment for germplasms to remain viable. Cryo-conservation can also face unique challenges based on the species, as some species have a reduced survival rate of frozen germplasm, but cryobiology is a field of active research and many studies concerning plants are underway.\n\nAn example of the use of cryoconservation to prevent the extinction of a livestock breed is the case of the Hungarian Grey cattle, or Magya Szurke. Hungarian Grey cattle were once a dominant breed in southeastern Europe with a population of 4.9 million head in 1884. They were mainly used for draft power and meat. However, the population had decreased to 280,000 head by the end of World War II and eventually reached the low population of 187 females and 6 males from 1965 to 1970. The breed's decreased use was due primarily to the mechanization of agriculture and the adoption of major breeds, which yield higher milk production. The Hungarian government launched a project to preserve the breed, as it possesses valuable traits, such as stamina, calving ease, disease resistance, and easy adaptation to a variety of climates. The government program included various conservation strategies, including the cryopreservation of semen and embryos. The Hungarian government's conservation effort brought the population up to 10,310 in 2012, which shows significant improvement using cryoconservation.\n\nThe best current cloning techniques have an average success rate of 9.4 percent, when working with familiar species such as mice, while cloning wild animals is usually less than 1 percent successful. In 2001, a cow named Bessie gave birth to a cloned Asian gaur, an endangered species, but the calf died after two days. In 2003, a banteng was successfully cloned, followed by three African wildcats from a thawed frozen embryo. These successes provided hope that similar techniques (using surrogate mothers of another species) might be used to clone extinct species. Anticipating this possibility, tissue samples from the last bucardo (Pyrenean ibex) were frozen in liquid nitrogen immediately after it died in 2000. Researchers are also considering cloning endangered species such as the giant panda and cheetah. However, cloning of animals is opposed by animal-groups due to the number of cloned animals that suffer from malformations before they die.\n\nA potential technique for aiding in reproduction of endangered species is interspecific pregnancy, implanting embryos of an endangered species into the womb of a female of a related species, carrying it to term. It has been used for the Spanish Ibex and Houbara bustard.\n\nWith successes such as in 1986 when a population only of 18 black ferrets left in the world was brought back up to 500 in the wild, and when the Arabian oryx was brought back from extinction in 1972 to a population of 1,000 in the deserts of the Middle East, captive breeding programs have proven successful throughout history. While captive breeding sounds like an ideal solution for preventing endangered animals from facing serious threats of extinction there are still reasons to believe that these programs can occasionally do more harm than good. Some detrimental effects include delays in understanding optimal conditions required for reproduction, failure to reach self-sustaining levels or provide sufficient stock for release, loss of genetic diversity due to inbreeding, and poor success in reintroductions despite available captive-bred young. Although it has been proven that captive breeding programs have yielded negative genetic effects in decreasing the fitness of captive-bred organisms, there is no direct evidence to show that this negative effect also decreases the overall fitness of their wild-born descendants.\n\nThere is reason to demand for the release of animals from captivity programs for four main reasons: a lack of sufficient space due to overly successful breeding programs, closure of facilities due to financial reasons, pressure from animal rights advocacy groups, and to aid the conservation of endangered species. Additionally, there are many ethical complications to reintroducing animals born in captivity back into the wild. For example, when scientists were reintroducing a rare species of toad back into the Mallorcan wild in 1993, a potentially deadly fungus that could kill frogs and toads was unintentionally introduced. It is also important to maintain the organism’s original habitat, or replicate that specific habitat for species survival.\n\n"}
{"id": "4450417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4450417", "title": "Chris Williams (director)", "text": "Chris Williams (director)\n\nChris Williams (born c. 1968/1969) is a Canadian American animator, film director and screenwriter at Walt Disney Animation Studios. He directed the short film \"Glago's Guest\" and co-directed \"Bolt\", which was nominated for the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2009; \"Big Hero 6\", which won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature in 2015 and \"Moana,\" which was nominated for two Oscars for Best Animated Feature and Best Original Song in 2016.\n\nWilliams was born in Missouri and spent the first 25 years of his life in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, where his father was the Director of Counselling Services at the University of Waterloo. Williams graduated from the University of Waterloo with a degree in Fine Arts and then enrolled in the animation program at Sheridan College, Oakville, Ontario. Upon graduation from Sheridan, he was recruited by Disney and moved to Los Angeles.\n\nWilliams previously worked in the story department for \"Mulan\" (1998), \"The Emperor's New Groove\" (2000), and \"Frozen\" (2013), in which he also voiced the character Oaken. In February 2007, it was announced he would direct \"American Dog\", which was re-titled \"Bolt\" (2008), and was later joined by Byron Howard, both of them replaced Chris Sanders who was the original director.\n\nIn July 2010, it was reported by various sources that Williams would direct \"King of the Elves\" based on the story by Philip K. Dick. However, in December 2013, it was revealed that Williams had joined another Walt Disney Animation film, \"Big Hero 6\", as a co-director inspired by the Marvel Comics of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2867043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2867043", "title": "College application", "text": "College application\n\nCollege application is the process by which individuals apply to gain entry into a college or university. Although specific details vary by country and institution, applications generally require basic background information of the applicant, such as family background, and academic or qualifying exam details such as grade point average in secondary school and standardized testing scores.\n\nMost colleges and universities in the U.S. have their own set of requirements for the information that is necessary for a college application. A common requirement on a college application is the applicant's standardized test scores, most commonly the ACT or SAT, and a high school transcript. Some colleges also require applications to include a Letter of Recommendation and a personal essay. A commonly accepted application used by many universities is the \"Common Application\" which is an online application that is used by over 500 colleges and universities. Deadlines for admission applications are established and published by each college or university. Many college-bound students receive application assistance and advice from their high school guidance counselors. Students who are transferring from a community college to a four-year college can obtain guidance from their college counselors.\n\nAided by marketing firms, some colleges send out \"fast-track\" applications. These applications typically waive the application fee, do not require essays, and assure an admittance decision within a shortened amount of time. Critics warn that these types of applications are misleading, because they give the impression that the student is pre-approved to be admitted and may not explore other colleges because this easy option is provided to them.\n\nAlmost all British universities are members of UCAS, a for undergraduate admissions.\nApplicants submit a single application for up to 5 courses at different universities. There is a maximum limit of 4 choices for medicine, dentistry and veterinary science courses.\n\nThe application also includes current and expected qualifications, employment, criminal history, a personal statement, and a reference (which generally includes predicted grades if the applicant is still in education).\n\nAdditional forms are required for application to Oxbridge. One can only apply to a particular college at Oxford or Cambridge in a single year.\nMany Oxbridge applicants are assessed through academic interviews and sometimes further testing.\n"}
{"id": "36353477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36353477", "title": "Commission d'évaluation des formations et diplômes de gestion", "text": "Commission d'évaluation des formations et diplômes de gestion\n\nThe Commission d'évaluation des formations et diplômes de gestion (CEFDG, in English National Commission for the Evaluation of Training and Qualifications in Management) was created by Decree number 2001-295 on April 4, 2001 in order to give Master's degree accreditation to French business schools.  The CEFDG includes 16 members from the Ministry of National Education and one from Economy.\nThe master's degree accreditation is valid for a maximum of six years, after the evaluation process.\n\n"}
{"id": "742316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=742316", "title": "Critical pedagogy", "text": "Critical pedagogy\n\nCritical pedagogy is a philosophy of education and social movement that has developed and applied concepts from critical theory and related traditions to the field of education and the study of culture. Advocates of critical pedagogy view teaching as an inherently political act, reject the neutrality of knowledge, and insist that issues of social justice and democracy itself are not distinct from acts of teaching and learning. The goal of critical pedagogy is emancipation from oppression through an awakening of the critical consciousness, based on the Portuguese term \"conscientização\". When achieved, critical consciousness encourages individuals to effect change in their world through social critique and political action.\n\nThe concept of critical pedagogy can be traced back to Paulo Freire's best-known 1968 work, \"The Pedagogy of the Oppressed\". Freire, a professor of history and the philosophy of education at the University of Recife in Brazil, sought in this and other works to develop a philosophy of adult education that demonstrated a solidarity with the poor in their common struggle to survive by engaging them in a dialogue of greater awareness and analysis. Although his family had suffered loss and hunger during the Great Depression, the poor viewed him and his formerly middle-class family \"as people from another world who happened to fall accidentally into their world\". His intimate discovery of class and their borders \"led, invariably, to Freire's radical rejection of a class-based society\".\n\nThe influential works of Freire made him arguably the most celebrated critical educator. He seldom used the term \"critical pedagogy\" himself when describing this philosophy. His initial focus targeted adult literacy projects in Brazil and later was adapted to deal with a wide range of social and educational issues. Freire's pedagogy revolved around an anti-authoritarian and interactive approach aimed to examine issues of relational power for students and workers. The center of the curriculum used the fundamental goal based on social and political critiques of everyday life. Freire's praxis required implementation of a range of educational practices and processes with the goal of creating not only a better learning environment but also a better world. Freire himself maintained that this was not merely an educational technique but a way of living in our educative practice.\n\nFreire endorses students' ability to think critically about their education situation; this way of thinking is thought by practitioners of critical pedagogy to allow them to \"recognize connections between their individual problems and experiences and the social contexts in which they are embedded\". Realizing one's consciousness (\"conscientization\", \"conscientização\") is then a needed first step of \"praxis\", which is defined as the power and know-how to take action against oppression while stressing the importance of liberating education. \"Praxis involves engaging in a cycle of theory, application, evaluation, reflection, and then back to theory. Social transformation is the product of praxis at the collective level.\"\n\nCritical pedagogue Ira Shor, who was mentored by and worked closely with Freire from 1980 until Freire's death in 1997, defines critical pedagogy as:\n\nCritical pedagogy explores the dialogic relationships between teaching and learning. Its proponents claim that it is a continuous process of what they call \"unlearning\", \"learning\", and \"relearning\", \"reflection\", \"evaluation\", and the effect that these actions have on the students, in particular students whom they believe have been historically and continue to be disenfranchised by what they call \"traditional schooling\". \n\nThe educational philosophy has since been developed by Henry Giroux and others since the 1980s as a praxis-oriented \"educational movement, guided by passion and principle, to help students develop a consciousness of freedom, recognize authoritarian tendencies, and connect knowledge to power and the ability to take constructive action\". Freire wrote the introduction to his 1988 work, \"Teachers as Intellectuals: Toward a Critical Pedagogy of Learning.\" Another leading critical pedagogy theorist who Freire called his \"intellectual cousin\", Peter McLaren, wrote the foreword. McLaren and Giroux co-edited one book on critical pedagogy and co-authored another in the 1990s. Among its other leading figures in no particular order are bell hooks (Gloria Jean Watkins), Joe L. Kincheloe, Patti Lather, Antonia Darder, Gloria Ladson-Billings, Peter McLaren, Joe L. Kincheloe, Khen Lampert, Howard Zinn, Donaldo Macedo, Sandy Grande, Michael Apple, and Stephanie Ledesma. Educationalists including Jonathan Kozol and Parker Palmer are sometimes included in this category. Other critical pedagogues known more for their Anti-schooling, unschooling, or deschooling perspectives include Ivan Illich, John Holt, Ira Shor, John Taylor Gatto, and Matt Hern.\n\nCritical pedagogy has several other strands and foundations. Postmodern, anti-racist, feminist, postcolonial, and queer theories all play a role in further expanding and enriching Freire's original ideas about a critical pedagogy, shifting its main focus on social class to include issues pertaining to religion, military identification, race, gender, sexuality, nationality, ethnicity, and age. Much of the work also draws on anarchism, György Lukács, Wilhelm Reich, postcolonialism, and the discourse theories of Edward Said, Antonio Gramsci, Gilles Deleuze (rhizomatic learning) and Michel Foucault. \"Radical Teacher\" is a magazine dedicated to critical pedagogy and issues of interest to critical educators. Many contemporary critical pedagogues have embraced Postmodern, anti-essentialist perspectives of the individual, of language, and of power, \"while at the same time retaining the Freirean emphasis on critique, disrupting oppressive regimes of power/knowledge, and social change\".\n\nLike critical theory itself, the field of critical pedagogy continues to evolve. Contemporary critical educators, such as bell hooks and Peter McLaren, discuss in their criticisms the influence of many varied concerns, institutions, and social structures, \"including globalization, the mass media, and race/spiritual relations\", while citing reasons for resisting the possibilities to change. McLaren has developed a social movement based version of critical pedagogy that he calls revolutionary critical pedagogy, emphasizing critical pedagogy as a social movement for the creation of a democratic socialist alternative to capitalism.\n\nJoe L. Kincheloe and Shirley R. Steinberg have created the Paulo and Nita Freire Project for International Critical Pedagogy at McGill University. In line with Kincheloe and Steinberg's contributions to critical pedagogy, the project attempts to move the field to the next phase of its evolution. In this second phase, critical pedagogy seeks to become a worldwide, decolonizing movement dedicated to listening to and learning from diverse discourses of people from around the planet. Kincheloe and Steinberg also embrace Indigenous knowledges in education as a way to expand critical pedagogy and to question educational hegemony. Joe L. Kincheloe, in expanding on the Freire's notion that a pursuit of social change alone could promote anti-intellectualism, promotes a more balanced approach to education than postmodernists.\n\nOne of the major texts taking up the intersection between critical pedagogy and Indigenous knowledge(s) is Sandy Grande's, \"Red Pedagogy: Native American Social and Political Thought\" (Rowman and Littlefield, 2004). In agreement with this perspective, Four Arrows, aka Don Trent Jacobs, challenges the anthropocentrism of critical pedagogy and writes that to achieve its transformative goals there are other differences between Western and Indigenous worldview that must be considered. Approaching the intersection of Indigenous perspectives and pedagogy from another perspective, critical pedagogy of place examines the impacts of place.\n\nIra Shor, a professor at the City University of New York, provides for an example of how critical pedagogy is used in the classroom. He develops these themes in looking at the use of Freirean teaching methods in the context of the everyday life of classrooms, in particular, institutional settings. He suggests that the whole curriculum of the classroom must be re-examined and reconstructed. He favors a change of role of the student from object to active, critical subject. In doing so, he suggests that students undergo a struggle for ownership of themselves. He states that students have previously been lulled into a sense of complacency by the circumstances of everyday life and that through the processes of the classroom, they can begin to envision and strive for something different for themselves.\n\nOf course, achieving such a goal is not automatic nor easy, as he suggests that the role of the teacher is critical to this process. Students need to be helped by teachers to separate themselves from unconditional acceptance of the conditions of their own existence. Once this separation is achieved, then students may be prepared for critical re-entry into an examination of everyday life. In a classroom environment that achieves such liberating intent, one of the potential outcomes is that the students themselves assume more responsibility for the class. Power is thus distributed amongst the group and the role of the teacher becomes much more mobile, not to mention more challenging. This encourages the growth of each student's intellectual character rather than a mere \"mimicry of the professorial style.\"\n\nTeachers, however, do not simply abdicate their authority in a student-centred classroom. In the later years of his life, Freire grew increasingly concerned with what he felt was a major misinterpretation of his work and insisted that teachers cannot deny their position of authority.\n\nAnd due to the student-centeredness that critical pedagogy insists upon, there are inherent conflicts associated with the \"large collections of top-down content standards in their disciplines\". Critical pedagogy advocates insist that teachers themselves are vital to the discussion about Standards-based education reform in the United States because a pedagogy that requires a student to learn or a teacher to teach externally imposed information exemplifies the banking model of education outlined by Freire where the structures of knowledge are left unexamined. To the critical pedagogue, the teaching act must incorporate social critique alongside the cultivation of intellect.\n\nJoe L. Kincheloe argues that this is in direct opposition to the epistemological concept of positivism, where \"social actions should proceed with law-like predictability\". In this philosophy, a teacher and their students would be served by Standards-based education where there is \"only be one correct way to teach\" as \"[e]veryone is assumed to be the same regardless of race, class, or gender\". Donald Schön's concept of \"indeterminate zones of practice\" illustrates how any practice, especially ones with human subjects at their center, are infinitely complex and highly contested, which amplify the critical pedagogue's unwillingness to apply universal practices.\n\nFurthermore, bell hooks, who is greatly influenced by Freire, points out the importance of engaged pedagogy and the responsibility that teachers, as well as students, must have in the classroom:\n\nStudents sometimes resist critical pedagogy. Student resistance to critical pedagogy can be attributed to a variety of reasons. Student objections may be due to ideological reasons, religious or moral convictions, fear of criticism, or discomfort with controversial issues. Kristen Seas argues: \"Resistance in this context thus occurs when students are asked to shift not only their perspectives, but also their subjectivities as they accept or reject assumptions that contribute to the pedagogical arguments being constructed.\" Karen Kopelson asserts that resistance to new information or ideologies, introduced in the classroom, is a natural response to persuasive messages that are unfamiliar.\n\nResistance is often, at the least, understandably protective: As anyone who can remember her or his own first uneasy encounters with particularly challenging new theories or theorists can attest, resistance serves to shield us from uncomfortable shifts or all-out upheavals in perception and understanding-shifts in perception which, if honored, force us to inhabit the world in fundamentally new and different ways.\n\nKristen Seas further explains: \"Students [often] reject the teacher's message because they see it as coercive, they do not agree with it, or they feel excluded by it.\" Karen Kopelson concludes \"that many if not most students come to the university in order to gain access to and eventual enfranchisement in 'the establishment,' not to critique and reject its privileges.\" To overcome student resistance to critical pedagogy, teachers must enact strategic measures to help their students negotiate controversial topics.\n\nThe rapidly changing demographics of the classroom in the United States has resulted in an unprecedented amount of linguistic and cultural diversity. In order to respond to these changes, advocates of critical pedagogy call into question the focus on practical skills of teacher credential programs. \"[T]his practical focus far too often occurs without examining teachers' own assumptions, values, and beliefs and how this ideological posture informs, often unconsciously, their perceptions and actions when working with linguistic-minority and other politically, socially, and economically subordinated students.\" As teaching is considered an inherently political act to the critical pedagogue, a more critical element of teacher education becomes addressing implicit biases (also known as implicit cognition or implicit stereotypes) that can subconsciously affect a teacher's perception of a student's ability to learn.\n\nAdvocates of critical pedagogy insist that teachers, then, must become learners alongside their students, as well as students \"of\" their students. They must become experts beyond their field of knowledge, and immerse themselves in the culture, customs, and lived experiences of the students they aim to teach.\n\nDuring South African apartheid, legal racialization implemented by the regime drove members of the radical leftist Teachers' League of South Africa to employ critical pedagogy with a focus on nonracialism in Cape Town schools and prisons. Teachers collaborated loosely to subvert the racist curriculum and encourage critical examination of religious, military, political, and social circumstances in terms of spirit-friendly, humanist, and democratic ideologies. The efforts of such teachers are credited with having bolstered student resistance and activism.\n\nPhilosopher John Searle characterizes the goal of Giroux's form of critical pedagogy \"to create political radicals\", thus highlighting the antagonistic moral and political grounds of the ideals of citizenship and \"public wisdom.\" These varying moral perspectives of what is \"right\" are to be found in what John Dewey has referred to as the tensions between traditional and progressive education. Searle argues that critical pedagogy's objections to the Western canon are misplaced and/or disingenuous:\n\nPrecisely by inculcating a critical attitude, the \"canon\" served to demythologize the conventional pieties of the American bourgeoisie and provided the student with a perspective from which to critically analyze American culture and institutions. Ironically, the same tradition is now regarded as oppressive. The texts once served an unmasking function; now we are told that it is the texts which must be unmasked.\n\nMaxine Hairston takes a hard line against critical pedagogy in the first year college composition classroom and argues, \"everywhere I turn I find composition faculty, both leaders in the profession and new voices, asserting that they have not only the right, but the duty, to put ideology and radical politics at the center of their teaching.\" Hairston further confers,\n\nWhen classes focus on complex issues such as racial discrimination, economic injustices, and inequities of class and gender, they should be taught by qualified faculty who have the depth of information and historical competence that such critical social issues warrant. Our society's deep and tangled cultural conflicts can neither be explained nor resolved by simplistic ideological formulas.\n\nSharon O'Dair (2003) says that today compositionists \"focus [...] almost exclusively on ideological matters\", and further argues that this focus is at the expense of proficiency of student writing skills in the composition classroom. To this end, O'Dair explains that \"recently advocated working-class pedagogies privilege activism over\" language instruction.\" Jeff Smith argues that students want to gain, rather than to critique, positions of privilege, as encouraged by critical pedagogues. There are a wide variety of views in opposition to critical pedagogy in the first year composition classroom, these are but a few.\n\nGottesman, Isaac (2016), \"The Critical Turn in Education: From Marxist Critique to Poststructuralist Feminism to Critical Theories of Race\" (New York: Routledge)\n"}
{"id": "7847673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7847673", "title": "Developmental coordination disorder", "text": "Developmental coordination disorder\n\nDevelopmental coordination disorder (DCD), also known as developmental dyspraxia or simply dyspraxia, is a chronic neurological disorder beginning in childhood. It is also known to affect planning of movements and co-ordination as a result of brain messages not being accurately transmitted to the body. Impairments in skilled motor movements per a child's chronological age interfere with activities of daily living. A diagnosis of DCD is then reached only in the absence of other neurological impairments like cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, or Parkinson's disease. According to CanChild in Canada, this disorder affects 5 to 6 percent of school-aged children; however, this disorder does progress towards adulthood, therefore making it a lifelong condition.\n\nDevelopmental coordination disorder is classified in the fifth revision of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-5) as a motor disorder, in the category of neurodevelopmental disorders.\n\nVarious areas of development can be affected by developmental coordination disorder and these will persist into adulthood, as DCD has no cure. Often various coping strategies are developed, and these can be enhanced through occupational therapy, psychomotor therapy, physiotherapy, speech therapy, or psychological training.\n\nIn addition to the physical impairments, developmental coordination disorder is associated with problems with memory, especially working memory. This typically results in difficulty remembering instructions, difficulty organizing one's time and remembering deadlines, increased propensity to lose things or problems carrying out tasks which require remembering several steps in sequence (such as cooking). Whilst most of the general population experience these problems to some extent, they have a much more significant impact on the lives of dyspraxic people. However, many dyspraxics have excellent long-term memories, despite poor short-term memory. Many dyspraxics benefit from working in a structured environment, as repeating the same routine minimises difficulty with time-management and allows them to commit procedures to long-term memory.\n\nPeople with developmental coordination disorder sometimes have difficulty moderating the amount of sensory information that their body is constantly sending them, so as a result dyspraxics are prone to sensory overload and panic attacks.\n\nModerate to extreme difficulty doing physical tasks is experienced by some dyspraxics, and fatigue is common because so much energy is expended trying to execute physical movements correctly. Some dyspraxics suffer from hypotonia, low muscle tone, which like DCD can detrimentally affect balance.\n\nWhole body movement and motor coordination issues mean that major developmental targets including walking, running, climbing and jumping can be affected. The difficulties vary from person to person and can include the following:\n\nFine-motor problems can cause difficulty with a wide variety of other tasks such as using a knife and fork, fastening buttons and shoelaces, cooking, brushing teeth, styling hair, shaving, applying cosmetics, opening jars and packets, locking and unlocking doors, and doing housework.\n\nDifficulties with fine motor co-ordination lead to problems with handwriting, which may be due to either ideational or ideo-motor difficulties.\nProblems associated with this area may include:\n\nDevelopmental verbal dyspraxia (DVD) is a type of ideational dyspraxia, causing speech and language impairments. This is the favoured term in the UK; however, it is also sometimes referred to as articulatory dyspraxia, and in the United States the usual term is childhood apraxia of speech (CAS).\n\nKey problems include:\n\nPeople who have developmental coordination disorder may also have one or more of these co-morbid conditions:\n\nHowever, they are unlikely to have all of these conditions. The pattern of difficulty varies widely from person to person; an area of major weakness for one dyspraxic can be an area of strength or gift for another. For example, while some dyspraxics have difficulty with reading and spelling due to dyslexia, or with numeracy due to dyscalculia, others may have brilliant reading and spelling or mathematical abilities. Some estimates show that up to 50% of dyspraxics have ADHD.\n\nSensory Processing Disorder (SPD) concerns having oversensitivity or undersensitivity to physical stimuli, such as touch, light, sound, and smell. This may manifest itself as an inability to tolerate certain textures such as sandpaper or certain fabrics such as wool, oral intolerance of excessively textured food (commonly known as picky eating), being touched by another individual (in the case of touch oversensitivity) or it may require the consistent use of sunglasses outdoors since sunlight may be intense enough to cause discomfort to a dyspraxic (in the case of light oversensitivity). An aversion to loud music and naturally loud environments (such as clubs and bars) is typical behavior of a dyspraxic individual who suffers from auditory oversensitivity, while only being comfortable in unusually warm or cold environments is typical of a dyspraxic with temperature oversensitivity. Undersensitivity to stimuli may also cause problems. Dyspraxics who are undersensitive to pain may injure themselves without realising it. Some dyspraxics may be oversensitive to some stimuli and undersensitive to others.\n\nSpecific Language Impairment (SLI) research has found that students with developmental coordination disorder and normal language skills still experience learning difficulties despite relative strengths in language. This means that for students with developmental coordination disorder their working memory abilities determine their learning difficulties. Any strength in language that they have is not able to sufficiently support their learning.\n\nStudents with developmental coordination disorder struggle most in visual-spatial memory. When compared to their peers who don’t have motor difficulties, students with developmental coordination disorder are seven times more likely than typically developing students to achieve very poor scores in visual-spatial memory. As a result of this working memory impairment, students with developmental coordination disorder have learning deficits as well.\n\nPsychological domain: Children with DCD struggle with lower self-efficacy and lower self-perceived competence in peer and social relations. They demonstrate greater aggressiveness and hyperactivity.\n\nSocial domain: Children are more vulnerable to social rejection and bullying, along with higher levels of loneliness.\n\nAssessments for developmental coordination disorder typically require a developmental history, detailing ages at which significant developmental milestones, such as crawling and walking, occurred. Motor skills screening includes activities designed to indicate developmental coordination disorder, including balancing, physical sequencing, touch sensitivity, and variations on walking activities.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association has four primary inclusive diagnostic criteria for determining if a child has developmental coordination disorder.\n\nThe criteria are as follows:\n\nScreening tests that can be used to assess developmental coordination disorder include:\nCurrently there is no single gold standard assessment test.\n\nA baseline motor assessment establishes the starting point for developmental intervention programs. Comparing children to normal rates of development may help to establish areas of significant difficulty.\n\nHowever, research in the \"British Journal of Special Education\" has shown that knowledge is severely limited in many who should be trained to recognise and respond to various difficulties, including developmental coordination disorder, dyslexia and deficits in attention, motor control and perception (DAMP). The earlier that difficulties are noted and timely assessments occur, the quicker intervention can begin. A teacher or GP could miss a diagnosis if they are only applying a cursory knowledge.\n\n\"Teachers will not be able to recognise or accommodate the child with learning difficulties in class if their knowledge is limited. Similarly GPs will find it difficult to detect and appropriately refer children with learning difficulties.\"\n\nThere is no cure for the condition. Instead, it is managed through therapy. Occupational therapy or cognitive behavioral therapy can help those living with the condition.\n\nSome people with the condition find it helpful to find alternative ways of carrying out tasks or organizing themselves, such as typing on a laptop instead of writing by hand, or using diaries and calendars to keep organized.\n\nDevelopmental coordination disorder is a lifelong neurological condition that is more common in males than in females, with a ratio of approximately four males to every female. The exact proportion of people with the disorder is unknown since the disorder can be difficult to detect due to a lack of specific laboratory tests, thus making diagnosis of the condition one of elimination of all other possible causes/diseases. Approximately 5–6% of children are affected by this condition.\n\nCollier first described developmental coordination disorder as 'congenital maladroitness'. A. Jean Ayres referred to developmental coordination disorder as a disorder of sensory integration in 1972, while in 1975 Sasson Gubbay, MD, called it the 'clumsy child syndrome'. Developmental coordination disorder has also been called minimal brain dysfunction although the two latter names are no longer in use.\n\nOther names include: Developmental Apraxia, Disorder of Attention and Motor Perception (DAMP) Dyspraxia, Developmental Dyspraxia, Motor Learning Difficulties, Perceptuo-motor dysfunction, Sensorimotor dysfunction.\n\nThe World Health Organisation currently lists developmental coordination disorder as Specific Developmental Disorder of Motor Function.\n\nPeople who have publicly stated they have been diagnosed with developmental coordination disorder include actor Daniel Radcliffe,\nphotographer David Bailey, model Cara Delevingne, singer Florence Welch, UK politician Emma Lewell-Buck, comedian Harriet Kemsley, rugby player Ellis Genge, and footballer Stephen Lewis \n\nRyan Sinclair, a human companion of the Doctor in the BBC science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\" has the disorder. The character debuted in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "41256686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41256686", "title": "Edubeam", "text": "Edubeam\n\nedubeam is a virtual classroom product produced and used in India. Edubeam is provided in High Definition and it can be upgraded to 3D. The same encoding and decoding technology supports Standard Definition, High Definition, and 3D.\n\nEdubeam is provided by Valuable Group and was piloted in 24 Virtual Training Centers in schools run by Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai in Mumbai. More schools now have or are expected to employ this product.\n\n"}
{"id": "5989047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989047", "title": "Education in Lebanon", "text": "Education in Lebanon\n\nEducation in Lebanon is regulated by the Ministry of Education and Higher Education (MEHE). In Lebanon, English or French with Arabic are taught from early years in schools. English or French are the mandatory medium of instruction for mathematics and science for all schools. Education is compulsory from age 6 to age 14.\nAccording to a 2013 World Economic Forum report, Lebanon is ranked 10th in overall quality of education, and 4th in science and math. However, these rankings are based on the Executive Opinion Survey, in which business leaders of each country give their opinion on the educational system in their own country. This survey is carried out as part of the WEF's Global Competitiveness Report. According to Muhammad Faour, a nonresident senior associate at the Carnegie Middle East Center in Beirut, \"this assessment is a significant departure from the results of student achievement tests in every international test Lebanon and Qatar have participated in.\"\n\nOn the biggest ever global school rankings, conducted by the OECD's economic think tank and compiled from an amalgamation of international assessments, including the OECD's Pisa tests, the TIMSS tests run by US-based academics and TERCE tests in Latin America, Lebanon ranked 58th globally in maths and sciences. In the international student achievement tests in math and sciences (TIMSS) in 2007 and 2011 for grade 8, Lebanese students scored well below the international average of 500. In math, Lebanon scored 449 in both 2007 and 2011.\n\nLebanon's adult literacy rate is 93.9% in 2014(http://hdr.undp.org/en/countries/profiles/LBN), according to the UN Human Development Index, ranking it 65th globally.\n\nThe percentage of the population as a whole with at least some secondary education (aged 25 and above) is 54.2%. For the percentage of the female population with at least some secondary education, the figure drops to 38.8%.\n\nEducation in Lebanon is divided into 5 cycles split in 3 phases: Pre-school education, basic education, and secondary education, the latter ending on a Baccalaureat or a \"professional certificate\", which both give access to tertiary education. Education is compulsory age 6 to age 14, being the basic education cycle. Pre-school education (cycle 1) starts at age 3 or 4. Basic education is then composed of two levels: elementary level and intermediate level. Elementary level is grade 1 to 3 (cycle 2) and grades 4 to 6 (cycle 3). Intermediate level is grades 7 to 9 (cycle 4). Secondary Education is grades 10 to 12 (cycle 5). Secondary Education is usually completed at age 18.\n\nIt is worth noting that an estimated two-thirds of Lebanese students attend private schools. In April 2015, the Minister of Education, Elias Bou Saab, acknowledged the myriad challenges and gaps that exist in the Lebanese school system, in particular in the public schools. While Lebanese law stipulates that the national curriculum should be updated every four years, it has not been updated since 2000. In addition, because of national disagreement over Lebanon's modern history, the history textbooks in particular only cover history until 1943. The national exams (Grade 9 Brevet and Grade 12 Baccalaureate) were not marked in 2014. \nAccording to the World Bank database, gross enrollment rate of pre-school education is 62.5 percent for male, 68.3 percent for female, and 64.4 percent for total in 2006. Pre-school education aims to initiate children into the school environment. The goal of pre-school education is 1) to create a favorable climate for the children to communicate with others, 2) to develop their physical capacities, limb control and coordination of their movements, and 3) to educate their senses. Pre-school education also takes into account physiological moral and intellectual development of children.\nAccording to the World Bank database, private enrollment share for pre-school education is 80.3 percent in 2008.\n\nElementary Level\n\nAccording to the Worlds database, gross enrollment rate of elementary level of basic education is for 96.8 percent for male, 93.9 percent for female, and 95.4 percent for total in 2007. Private enrollment share in elementary level is 67.6 percent in 2007.\n\nIntermediate level\n\nPrimary completion rate of Lebanon (US$6,000 GNI per capita in 2007) is lower than that of Tunisia, Jordan, Iran, Algeria, West Bank and Egypt (all of which have lower GNI per capita). Primary completion rates have not improved during the period 1995/96 to 2003/04. In 2007, Primary completion rate is 79.8 percent for male, 83.3 percent for female, and 81.5 percent for total. According to UIS database, technical and vocational enrollment as percent of total enrollment in intermediate level is 5.1 percent in 2008. Private enrollment share of general education in intermediate level is 60.2 percent and that of technical and vocational education is 56.8 percent in 2008.\n\nSecondary education is three years education, the first year is common for all students, and the second year is either scientific or literature whereas the third year composes of (humanities, economics, life sciences, general sciences) and technical education (about 55 different fields of study). Most schools, however have deviated from this system. They usually do not offer Humanities education, citing socio-economics as a better and more efficient alternative School principals decide students’ path based on students’ aptitude as shown by the first secondary and second secondary years. When students complete three years education, they take official Lebanese Baccalaureate exams in their respective tracks (four in all). Students who finish examinations successfully obtain the Lebanese Baccalaureate Certificate of Secondary Education (Shahaadat Al-Bakaalouriya al Lubnaaniya l’il-ta ‘liim al-Thaanawi) or the Technical Baccalaureate (Al-Bakaalouriya al-Finniya) In 2014, the Minister of Education passed all students who took the exam, regardless of their score.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Human Development Index, the gross enrollment rate for secondary school is 74%.\n\nPalestinian refugees in Lebanon have limited access to public secondary education. Most of them are not able to afford the high cost of private secondary education. UNRWA operates three secondary schools in Beirut, Saida and Tyre. School operated by UNRWA partially offset the absence of available educational opportunities at the secondary school level. (UNRWA website)\nAccording to the World Bank database, gross enrollment rate of secondary education is 69.8 percent for male, 80.2 percent for female, and 74.9 percent for total. According to UIS database, technical and vocational enrollment as percent of total enrollment in secondary level is 27.8 percent in 2008. Private enrollment share of general education in intermediate level is 49.8 percent and that of technical and vocational education is 56.9 percent in 2008.\n\nLebanon participated in TIMSS in 2003 and 2007. Score of mathematics at 8th grade is 433 in 2003 and 449 in 2007. Score of science at 8th grade is 435 in 2003 and 404 in 2007.\nAt the end of middle school, each student has to enter the official exams.\n\nTertiary education in Lebanon is composed of Technical and Vocational Institutes, University colleges, University Institutes and Universities. The Lebanese University is the only public institution. The Ministry of Education and Higher Education administrates the private and public sectors and Technical and Vocational Institutes are under the Directorate General of Technical and Vocational Education Directorate General of Higher Education has responsibility for University Colleges, University Institutes and Universities).\n\nAccording to the World Bank database, gross enrollment rate of tertiary education (the percentage of students who go on to tertiary education within five years of completing secondary education) was 48% in 2013.\n\nWith university graduates making up 30% of people seeking a job, it is clear that the Higher Education system needs to play a key role in resolving the problem of youth unemployment in Lebanon. The key issue related to this sector is the mismatch between the highly skilled graduates that universities supply and the skills and professionals the labor market demands; these supply-demand failings in the labor market are increasingly preventing young people from finding a job in their country that fits their qualifications. In order to address these issues, universities can implement policies to:\n1. Reform the curricula to better prepare graduates for their professional life\n2. Improve career guidance structures and activities\n3. Invest in relevant research, statistics and data gathering.\n\nLebanon has 41 nationally accredited universities, several of which are internationally recognized.\nThe American University of Beirut (AUB) and the Université Saint-Joseph (USJ) were the first Anglophone and the first Francophone universities to open in Lebanon respectively.\nThe majority of the forty-one universities, both public and private, largely operate in French or English, the two most widely used foreign languages in Lebanon.\n\nAt the English universities, students who have graduated from an American-style high school program enter at the freshman level to earn their baccalaureate equivalence from the Lebanese Ministry of Higher Education. This qualifies them to continue studying at the higher levels. Such students are required to have already taken the SAT I and the SAT II (Subjects Test) upon applying to college, in lieu of the official exams. On the other hand, students who have graduated from a school that follows the Lebanese educational system are directly admitted to the sophomore year. These students are still required to take the SAT I, but not the SAT II.\n\nThe highest-ranked universities in Lebanon include the American University of Beirut (AUB), the Lebanese American University (LAU), the Université Saint-Joseph (USJ), the Lebanese University (LU), the University of Balamand (UOB), the Université Saint-Esprit de Kaslik (USEK), Beirut Arab University (BAU), Haigazian University (HU), and the Notre Dame University - Louaize (NDU), QS Top Universities ranks AUB second in the Arab region (the only Lebanese university to rank among the region's top 10), and 268 globally. The THE (Times Higher Education) World University Rankings 2015-2016 place the American University of Beirut between 501 and 600 in its rankings, while the Center for World University Rankings places AUB at 682 in its global rankings; AUB is the only Lebanese university to make either of these lists.\nNot all private higher educational institutions in Lebanon consider SAT I or SAT II for undergraduate admissions. The majority require a local entrance test prepared by these individual higher educational institutions. In most times, the entrance test is a placement test. The main requirement for undergraduate admissions for Lebanese students is the secondary-school leaving certificate called the Baccalaureate II or more recently the International Baccalaureate. However, students with a foreign nationality are admitted to private higher education institutions that pattern after the American system of higher education as Freshman students in case they do not have an equivalence to the Baccalaureate II. In case they obtain an equivalence from the Ministry of Education and higher Education, they are admitted as sophomore students. As for the Lebanese University, which is the only public higher educational institution in Lebanon, students are admitted to undergraduate programs based on their Baccalaureate II. A number of Faculties at the Lebanese University, such as the Faculty of Sciences require further testing for selectivity based on entrance tests (concurs) prepared and administered by this faculty.\n\nMinistry of Education and Higher Education (MOEHE) regulates all education institutes in the public sector through a regional education system. The education system in Lebanon is centralized, and this regulation is not direct. The education system is managed through regional education bureaus. Public schools are monitored by the regional education bureaus in the governorates. The regional education bureau serves as liaisons between the public school and the directorates of education at the ministry's headquarters. Private schools have their own organization, but private schools are still subject to the authority of the MOEHE. \n\nThe Center for Educational Research and Development (CERD) is an autonomous staff organization under the trusteeship of the MOEHE. CERD's tasks are 1) to draft curricula of academic and vocational education for the pre-university education stage, 2) to revise and modify the curricula according to the necessity, 3) to prepare all means and ways for applying these curricula, 4) to do educational research, 5) to secure training for pre-university teachers, 6) to prepare the curricula in all subject areas, 7) to provide teacher training, 8) to write textbooks, and 9) to conduct evaluations, etc.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Human Development Index 2014, public education expenditure as percentage of GDP is 1.65 in 2014. Public schools are financed by the Ministry of Education and private schools are financed by students' fees. The processes involved curricula draft and modification, and teacher training are mainly financed by nongovernment funds such as private companies or international bodies which include the World Bank and the UNDP.\n\nThe Lebanese curriculum is used at all public and private schools in Lebanon. Schools have to apply both the Lebanese and foreign schemes at the same time when they will implement a foreign curriculum (French, English, or international) in a school.\n\nThe Syrian crisis has placed a large burden on Lebanese public schools. There are nearly 400,000 school-aged refugee children in Lebanon, which is roughly 25% more than the number of Lebanese students in Lebanese public schools. Only an estimated 30% of the Syrian refugee school-aged children are receiving an education. In addition to barriers to access and other challenges, a significant barrier to integration is language: Syrian schools are taught in Arabic, while Lebanese public schools incorporate both French and English. In 2014, 104,000 Syrian refugee students were taught in Lebanese schools. In 2015, the Ministry of Education aimed to double the number of Syrian children in public schools to 200,000 students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401950", "title": "Emerson College", "text": "Emerson College\n\nEmerson College is a private college in downtown Boston, Massachusetts. Founded in 1880 by Charles Wesley Emerson as a \"school of oratory,\" the college offers more than three dozen degree programs in the area of Arts and Communication and is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. Located in Boston's Washington Street Theatre District on the edge of the Boston Common, the school also maintains buildings in Los Angeles and the town of Well, The Netherlands.\n\nCharles Wesley Emerson founded the Boston Conservatory of Elocution, Oratory, and Dramatic Art in 1880, a year after Boston University closed its School of Oratory. Classes were held at Pemberton Square in Boston. Ten students enrolled in the conservatory's first class. The following year, the conservatory changed its name to the Monroe Conservatory of Oratory, in honor of Charles Emerson's teacher at Boston University's School of Oratory, Professor Lewis B. Monroe. In 1890, the name changed again to Emerson College of Oratory and was later shortened to Emerson College in 1939.\n\nThe college expanded and rented space at 36 Bromfield Street, and moved to Odd Fellows Hall on Berkeley and Tremont Streets in the South End of Boston. With the new location, the college's first library was established in 1892. Henry Lawrence Southwick, a faculty member and graduate, became a financial partner for the college with Emerson. This financial partnership led to the purchase of the Boston School of Oratory from Moses T. Brown in 1894.\n\nAt the turn of the century, faculty members Henry and Jessie Eldridge Southwick and William H. Kenney purchased the college from Dr. Emerson. Soon after, the college rented a new location in Chickering Hall.\n\nDr. Emerson retired in 1903 and William J. Rolfe, a Shakespearean scholar and actor, was named the second President of Emerson College of Oratory. His service as president lasted until his retirement in 1908.\n\nAs the Student Government Association of the college held its first meeting in 1908, the third president of the college, Henry Lawrence Southwick, was inaugurated. He introduced the study of acting and stagecraft into the college curriculum.\n\nDuring his tenure, the college rented a new building at 30 Huntington Avenue. The college was also granted the right to award Bachelor of Literary Interpretation (B.L.I.) degrees. In addition, Emerson became the first school with a collegiate-level program in children's theater in 1919. The school offered its first course in Journalism in 1924.\n\nThe college purchased its first piece of real estate with a new women's dormitory building at 373 Commonwealth Ave. and started intramural sports in 1931 with the organization of volleyball games.\n\nIn 1930, full charge and control of the college was transferred to the Board of Trustees by William H. Kenney, Henry Lawrence Southwick, and Jessie Eldridge Southwick.\n\nWhen Harry Seymour Ross was appointed the fourth president of Emerson College in 1931, the first course in radio broadcasting was taught by the program director of WEEI, a Boston AM radio station.\n\nThe purchase of buildings at 130 Beacon Street and 128 Beacon Street a year later began the presence of Emerson College in Boston's Back Bay. Emerson kept ownership of these buildings until summer 2003.\n\nIn the following years, a professional training program in Speech Pathology (1935) and the first undergraduate program in broadcasting and broadcast journalism (1937) were offered for the first time in the United States. Also, construction of a theater behind 128–130 Beacon began, and the institution was granted the right to award Master of Arts degrees.\n\nIn the post-war era, the G.I. Bill of Rights and the Broadcasting curriculum contributed to the rebalancing of the student body from a primarily-female population to an equally-balanced population of men and women. Boylston Green, the first president to have no prior association with the college, used his background as a dean of students to enhance extracurricular activities, including the establishment of a student activities fee. These efforts led to the first publication of Emerson's student newspaper, \"The Berkeley Beacon\", in 1947. It is still in production today.\n\nEmerson also saw major development in its broadcasting program. A one-year Certificate of Broadcasting was offered via evening classes. The FCC awarded the college a 10-watt license in 1949, and WERS, the first educational FM radio station in New England, was born. The station's power was increased to 300 watts three years later, and 18,000 watts by 1953.\n\nAt the start of the decade, In 1950 Emerson College became a member of the New England Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, an accreditation association for schools and colleges in New England.\n\nPresident Green left the college in 1949 after being selected as president of the University of the South, and Godfrey Dewey served as Acting President until 1951. At that time, Jonathon French was appointed as Acting President, and he became President in December of that year, despite never being formally inaugurated.\n\nThe college suffered from a severe financial crisis in 1952, and sought $50,000 in emergency funding. At the time, the Chairman of the Corporation stated that without these funds, the college had three alternatives: go broke, sell out, or join up with another institution. Led by the National Alumni Council, a grassroots campaign was launched to improve the financial situation of the college. The efforts led to the resignation of the Council of Trustees, which was then replaced mostly by alumni. The new board elected a former Emerson history professor, S. Justus McKinley, as the fifth President of Emerson College.\n\nPulling out of its financial crisis, the college started to develop its programs with new facilities. In 1953, Emerson opened the Robbins Speech and Hearing Clinic at 145 Beacon Street, furthering the Communication Sciences and Disorders Program. A television studio was dedicated at 130 Beacon in 1954, with its first closed-circuit TV program the following year as WERS-TV. The first annual spring musical, \"Lady in the Dark\" by Moss Hart, was presented.\n\nThe school was authorized to grant Bachelors and Masters of Science in Speech, honorary degrees, and Bachelor of Music in conjunction with the Longy School of Music.\n\nAs the 1960s started, the building at 373 Commonwealth Avenue was sold to purchase a dormitory at 100 Beacon Street to accommodate an enrollment of 609 undergraduate and 29 graduate students. A year later, a building at 150 Beacon Street was obtained for dorms, dining hall, and administrative offices. With major gifts from Elisabeth Abbot Smith and J.F. Buzzard, the college library moved from the fourth floor of 130 Beacon Street into its own building at 303 Berkeley Street. In 1964, two buildings were purchased: 96 Beacon Street, which became the student union building, and 132–134 Beacon Street, which became a dormitory. The campus remained primarily in Back Bay until the late 1990s.\n\nIn 1967, Richard Chapin, former Dean of the Harvard Business School was inaugurated as the seventh president of Emerson College.\n\nShortly afterward, an academic planning committee approved a new course of study for general education requirements. The first level of this program replaced the college-wide requirements with a two-year interdisciplinary course of study and electives. In order to accommodate this new program, the building at 67–69 Brimmer Street was purchased. The Institute of Interdisciplinary Studies was born. A year later (1972), the college gained authorization to grant BFA, and MFA degrees.\n\nThough Emerson College has moved to various locations within the city of Boston, the appointment of Allen E. Koenig (the ninth President of Emerson College) almost took the college completely outside of Boston. As soon as he was inaugurated in 1979, Koenig initiated talks with Pine Manor College in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts to relocate Emerson and merge the two schools. However, an agreement was never reached and the plan was dropped entirely.\n\nAt the start of the 1980s, Koenig made a proposal to the Board of Trustees for a major renovation of the college's facilities. The plan allowed for new performance spaces, classrooms, and faculty offices at Brimmer Street; remodeling the Library and Learning Resources Center at 150 Beacon; remodeling the 303 Berkeley building for the Humanities and Social Sciences Division; a new radio/audio complex at 126 Beacon; and construction of two new television studios behind 130 Beacon.\n\nIn 1984, 335 Commonwealth Avenue was purchased for Administration and the Communication Studies department. The college also received the authorization to grant MFA degrees in Creative Writing.\n\nDespite the newly purchased Commonwealth Avenue buildings, Lawrence, Massachusetts, was soon being discussed as a new location for Emerson College, about away from Boston. The mayor of Lawrence announced that the necessary land would be taken by eminent domain and sold to Emerson for a token payment of $100. However, the five affected private landowners disagreed with this arrangement and fought the city in court. Three years later in 1988, Judge John Forte ruled in favor of the City of Lawrence. The river-front site in Lawrence was proposed as the new campus for the College. However, as real estate values in Boston dropped and the costs of constructing a new campus increased, the plans were put on hold and eventually abandoned when Koenig resigned as president in 1989. In 1988, the college bought a building at Zero Marlborough Street (also known as 6 Arlington Street) for dormitories and a dining hall.\n\nIn an unrelated move, Kasteel Well in the Netherlands was purchased and became the home of Emerson's overseas program (now called External Programs).\n\nJohn Zacharis became the tenth President of Emerson College and faced a college fractured by the failed move to Lawrence, Massachusetts. Over the course of two years, he moved to restore unity to the campus by purchasing a building at 180 Tremont Street, now called the Ansin Building. This purchase started a transition from Back Bay to the Boston Theater District. Zacharis went on medical leave in 1992 and died of leukemia shortly after.\n\nDuring Zacharis's leave, Jacqueline Weis Liebergott was appointed as Acting President and, a year later, inaugurated to become the first female president of the college. Shortly after, she submitted a 10-year master plan to the Boston Redevelopment Authority which involved moving the college to the Washington Street Theatre District (also known at that time as the Combat Zone).\n\nIn the mid-1990s, a planning document of the college's future plans was drafted and public hearings were held. The college also extended health care benefits to domestic partners of gay and lesbian faculty, administration and staff. Under the plan, dental coverage and tuition waivers were also available.\n\n1994 was also the year the college started to go online with a $100,000 gift from Mrs. Mary E. Tufte. Financed by the contribution, The Tufte Lab was placed on the fourth floor of the Ansin Building and dedicated in Mrs. Tufte's honor. The lab was the catalyst for a telecommunications / fiber optic network installation, which was completed in October 1995.\n\nIn addition, the college announced the purchase and restoration of The Little Building (Boston) (1994) across the street from the Ansin Building and next to Emerson's Majestic Theatre. Restoration was completed on the façades of the college's buildings at 126, 128, 130, 132–134, 168 Beacon Street, and 21 Commonwealth Avenue.\n\nIn 1998, Emerson purchased the Walker Building (Boston) at 120 Boylston. The building currently hosts the school's Department of Television, Radio, Film Production, the Institutional Advancement (Alumni and Development) department, and the Government and Community Relations department. It also contains the school's Library and many of its classrooms.\n\nIn 2003, the Tufte Performance Production Center (PPC) at 10 Boylston Place opened. The 11-story steel-and-glass building houses the Department of Performing Arts and includes two theaters (The Semel Theatre and The Greene Theatre), two television studios, makeup and costume labs, faculty offices, and an exhibition area. Also that year, the Cutler Majestic Theatre finished renovations and re-opened as one of the main stages of Emerson Stage productions.\n\nIn 2004, it was announced that the buildings at 96, 100, and 132 Beacon had been sold and would be vacated by the Fall 2006 semester.\n\nConstruction of a new 14-story residence hall at 150 Boylston Street began in March 2004, and was completed in September 2006 in time for the new school year. It is the first entirely-new residence hall in Emerson's history. The facility includes residential suites, athletic facilities, offices and meeting rooms for student organizations, informal gathering places for off-campus students, spaces for small-group rehearsals and performances, and dining facilities.\n\nIn 2005 the school purchased the historic Paramount Theatre (Boston) on Washington Street, with plans to build a new complex at the site including a 565-seat main stage theater inside the existing Paramount Theater and a 125-seat black box theater in an adjacent new building. Plans also included a 200-seat film screening room, eight rehearsal studios ranging from , six smaller rehearsal spaces, a sound stage for film students, a new scene shop, and a dormitory for 260 students.\n\nOn April 3, 2006, a scaffolding platform on the east side of the 150 Boylston construction project fell to the street below, killing two construction workers and one passing motorist. The scaffolding had been attached to the east side of the building and was in the process of being removed. Investigators found that the construction workers did not properly secure the scaffolding to a crane while dismantling the apparatus, causing the platform to be unstable and resulting in the collapse. Construction was stopped for over a week to allow investigators to determine the cause of the accident, but was resumed in time to meet the project's August 2006 deadline.\n\nIn May 2006, the Campus Center in the Piano Row building was named the Max Mutchnick Campus Center after a major gift from the 1987 graduate and co-creator of the television sitcom \"Will & Grace\". In the same year, the school exercised its purchase option on the Colonial Theatre, adjacent to the Little Building, and then converted the upper floors of the building to a 372-bed dormitory. With the addition of dorm space here and at the Paramount Theatre, the school hoped to accommodate up to 75% of its students in on-campus housing by the year 2010.\n\nIn September 2006 a long-running labor dispute between the administrators and faculty union was resolved. The administration limited the union's role in promotion and tenure, and brought department chairs into administrative roles, where they were not covered by the union. In response, the college agreed not to dismantle the union.\n\nIn September 2007, students in Emerson Alliance for Gays, Lesbians, and Everyone (E.A.G.L.E.) as well as the Student Government Association (S.G.A.) received the gender neutral bathrooms they had pitched to the administration in the spring. In September 2016, every bathroom on Emerson's campus was converted into a gender inclusive restroom.\n\nOn December 2, 2009, President Liebergott announced she would step down in June 2011. On September 8, 2010, the college announced she would be succeeded by M. Lee Pelton of Willamette University.\n\nOn March 18, 2010, the newly renovated Paramount Center officially opened, with Boston Mayor Thomas M. Menino illuminating the Paramount's original art deco marquee, which Emerson had restored. In addition to the 590-seat Paramount Theatre, the Paramount Center also houses an experimental black box theater, the Bright Family Screening Room (for films), a sound stage, a scene/prop production shop, nine rehearsal studios, six practice rooms, four classrooms, 20 faculty offices, and a student gathering area. A commercial restaurant will be located on the street level.\n\n, two students are suing the college for mishandling their rape cases and failing to provide their Title IX rights.\n\n\nEmerson College completed its move from Boston's Back Bay neighborhood to the historic Washington Street Theatre District, abutting the southeast corner of Boston Common. The main campus is served by Boylston station on the MBTA Green Line and Chinatown station on the MBTA Orange Line.\n\nThe College also owns a fourteenth-century castle in The Netherlands (the base for its European programs), and constructed a major academic center on Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood to house its long-standing Los Angeles programs.\n\nOnce owned by the Boston Edison Company, the Ansin Building was purchased by Emerson in 1992. The building stands 14 stories high and contains all Visual & Media Arts (VMA) labs and facilities, offices for all VMA and Writing, Literature & Publishing (WLP) departments, and is the home of WERS, WECB, and ETIN (Emerson's Talk and Information Network, an online radio service). It also contains the registrar's office, Tufte and 3D computer labs, Digital Production labs, and the Media Services center.\n\nThe former Union Bank building at 216 Tremont Street houses the Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders and its speech and hearing clinic The Robbins Center. Also located here are the offices of Student Financial Services, Health Services, Career Services, the Counseling Center and the International Student Center. The Bill Bordy Theater and Auditorium on the ground floor is used for lectures, performances, performance classes and special events.\n\nComputer Labs: Communication Sciences and Disorders Lab (CSD)\n\nHome to classrooms, offices to various non-academic and academic departments, and five computer labs, and the Iwasaki Library. The fifth and sixth floors connect to the Tufte building.\n\nComputer Labs: Advanced Projects Lab (APL), Advanced Teaching Lab (ATL), Communication & Marketing Labs (CML) 1, 2, and Journalism Lab (JRL)\nProduction Facilities: Newsroom TV Studio, Newsroom Editing Labs\nAcademic Facilities: Iwasaki Library, Emerson College Archives and Special Collections\n\nDuring the summer of 2008, the Walker building underwent construction to be completed before the fall of 2008 to fill in the light-well that provided natural light to floors 2 through 6 in order to insert one of the sets of popular NBC sitcom \"Will & Grace\" (1998-2006), donated by Emerson alumnus Max Mutchnick, in the Iwasaki Library. The set—Will and Grace's living room and kitchen—remained in the library until 2013, when it was moved to Emerson's newly opened Los Angeles campus. The 2008 project also provides new study rooms for students on the other floors.\n\nOpened in the fall of 2003, the 11-story building is home to two television studios, two performing art theaters, the Huret and Spector Gallery, set and costume studios, classrooms, and the offices of the Department of Performing Arts. The fifth and sixth floors of the building are connected to the Walker Building.\n\nComputer Labs: CAD Lab\nPerformance Theaters and Facilities: Semel Theatre, The Kermit and Elinore Greene Theater, The Bobbi Brown and Steven Plofker Design Technology and Makeup Studio\nTelevision Studio and Facilities: Di Bona Television Studio & Control Room, Studio B & Control Room\n\nThe theatre is home to Emerson Stage productions each year, various speaking events, Open House, and the EVVY Awards, Emerson's own award show and the largest student-run live television production in the country.\n\nOpening in 1932 as a movie theatre, seating 1,700 movie-goers, the Paramount Theatre was one of the first movie houses in Boston to play talking motion pictures. In 2005, Emerson College announced plans to renovate the Paramount Theatre, building an entire performing arts facility in and around the theatre. Construction was completed in January 2010.\n\nThe project included not only renovating the Paramount Theatre into a 550-seat theater, but building both a new Performance Development Center and a new residence hall for the school in the upper floors of the building. The complex features the 120-seat Liebergott Black Box Theatre, the 174-seat Bright Family Screening Room, nine rehearsal studios ranging from , five practice rooms for individuals and small groups, a sound stage for film production classes, a scene shop, several classrooms; a restaurant, and Emerson faculty and staff offices.\n\nThe renovated Paramount Center was designed by Elkus Manfredi Architects of Boston and built by Bond Brothers. Construction began in the spring of 2007 and was completed in December 2009.\n\nIn 2007, Emerson College announced that it had purchased property on Sunset Boulevard (at Gordon St) in Hollywood, on which to build a permanent home to its decades-old Los Angeles program. The international design firm Morphosis, headed by Pritzker Prize winning architect Thom Mayne, has been retained to design a signature building incorporating residential, teaching and administrative spaces. The 10-story building was opened for the college's winter semester in 2014. The new facility accommodates 217 students, approximately twice the number of students that were supported by Emerson's older facility in Burbank.\n\nEmerson College owns and operates Kasteel Well in the province of Limburg, the Netherlands, a national historical monument that provides living accommodations, classrooms, a resource center, and related facilities. Located near the German border, Kasteel Well is approximately two hours from Düsseldorf, Amsterdam, and Brussels, and five hours from Paris, Milan, and Madrid. Approximately 85 matriculated Emerson students attend the \"Castle\" Program each semester, and are chosen through a lottery style system. Most course offerings are Sophomore level, but the program is open to Sophomores and above. Students are encouraged to travel throughout the duration of the program, with the campus partially closing each weekend (with no weekend dining services) and no Thursday evening or Friday classes to allow for weekend trips. Many students travel most or every weekend of the semester. \n\nClasses are taught by Dutch teachers, with several Belgian and other teachers on staff. \n\nStudent housing is in the two separate buildings of the castle - the \"Main Castle\" and the \"Vorbercht\" with a variety of doubles, triples, and singles. Most rooms are triples with loft beds. \n\nThe village of Well is a small town of about 2,500 residents. It is located in the southernmost province of the Netherlands and has its own distinctive character. The area is very rural, and filled with numerous walking and cycling paths. There are pastures with horses and sheep and beautiful landscapes. There is an “old” section and a “new” section of Well, with the castle in the middle.\n\nAn unusual feature of Emerson College residence halls is their close proximity to many of the major theaters and performance spaces in the heart of the Washington Street Theatre District of Boston. Some of the student rooms are literally on top of a major Boston theater owned by Emerson, and all of them are in close walking distance to the major performance venues of the District. Also nearby are major shopping centers and restaurants of the Chinatown, Downtown, and Back Bay neighborhoods of Boston.\n\nThe newly constructed building opened in September 2006, replacing residence hall and student union buildings on Beacon and Arlington streets with most offices relocating to the new building. Sited on Boylston St. in the historic Piano Row District, the building is often referred to as \"Piano Row\".\n\nThe residence floors consist of seven suites per floor. Each suite consists of three two-person bedrooms and one shared bathroom and living room for the unit. In addition, each floor has at least one residence assistant's room with either a common room or an additional residence assistant's room every other floor.\n\nPiano Row is also home to the Max Mutchnick Campus Center, sometimes called \"The Max\", and the Bobbi Brown and Steven Plofker Gymnasium. The former features several conference, meeting, and rehearsal spaces open to all students, offices for Student Life and the Student Government Association, and storage for any student organization that requires it. The Brown Gymnasium has an NCAA regulation-sized basketball court, with several sets of bleachers and a sky box equipped for events, as well as a workout and fitness center for athletes. Also housing new offices for the Athletics Department, it is Emerson College's first-ever indoor athletic facility. The construction of the gym was controversial at the time of its announcement, considering lack of performing space on campus and the lack of enthusiasm around athletics at Emerson. Since then, with growing appreciation for athletics among the student body, and the development of significant new performance and rehearsal space in the Paramount Center (see below), the Brown Gym has become an important campus feature.\n\nThe building also features a cafe, which offers several made-to-order food items as well as convenience items, with indoor seating overlooking the Boston Common.\n\nIn addition to housing a number of administrative offices on the ground floor, the Little Building was once an office and residential space before Emerson College purchased the building in 1994 and opened it for use in September 1995. The Little Building contains the college's only cafeteria, a fitness center in its basement and \"The Cabaret\", a space in the basement used for performances with a maximum capacity of 150 people.\n\nThe residence hall houses over 750 students in the upper 10 floors of the 12-story building. The housing section of the building comprises singles, doubles, triples, two quads, and suites of between 4 and 6 people made up of various configurations of singles and doubles.\n\nThe Little Building was originally built to hold 600 offices, 15 stores, 22 shops, and a Post Office. Built in 1917, it was named after its financier, John Mason Little and was designed by famed architect Clarence Blackall. The building's name is often confused as being a descriptive adjective, which leads to surprise upon discovery that it is one of the larger buildings on campus. In 1998 the building was changed from its original red color.\n\nAs of the 2017-2018 school year, the Little Building was closed for much-needed renovation and will reopen in the fall of 2019.\n\nNewly renovated in 2009, the upper floors of this 10-story building house 372 students in single and double rooms in three-, four-, five-, or six-person suite-like environments that include a shared bathroom. Residents share common lounges with kitchenettes and a centralized laundry facility. This was formerly the headquarters of music publishing company, McLaughlin & Reilly Co.\n\nOpened in 2010, The Paramount Center is located in the heart of the Boston Theatre district, adjacent to the Boston Opera House and on top of the newly renovated Paramount Theatre, classroom space, a film soundstage, 200 seat screening room, and a black box theatre. The Residence hall has four floors, on the 6th through 9th floors. Each floor has a common room, and a mix of doubles and four or six person suites. All rooms or suites have their own full bathroom, and all floors are coed.\n\nOpened in 2017, 2 Boylston Place is an 18-story residence hall that houses approximately 375 students. The new building has created a much-needed student social space and contributes to making the Boylston Place corridor a striking, signature entrance to our urban campus.Three hundred and seventy-five students call 2 Boylston Place home in single, double, and triple rooms within six- or eight-person suite-like environments that include a shared bathroom. There are also off-hallway triple rooms that include a private bathroom. Residents share three common lounges, one with a kitchen, and two centralized laundry facilities.\n\nIn 2017, Emerson was ranked by U.S. News & World Report as #44 in the Best Value Schools category and #7 in the Regional Universities North category, but received no national ranking.\n\nEmerson College is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. Two schools (School of Communications and School of the Arts) and two departments (Department of Professional Studies and Special Programs and Institute for Liberal Arts and Interdisciplinary Studies) offer 27 undergraduate programs and 12 graduate degree programs. In 2008, Emerson admitted 37% of applicants, and is ranked 14th in the Universities-Master's (North) category according to \"U.S. News & World Report\". There are currently 3,453 undergraduate and 837 graduate students. Tuition for the 2009–2010 academic year is $29,408 for a full-time undergraduate student; approximately 65% of students receive financial assistance averaging $15,000 in scholarships and grants, low-interest loans and part-time employment.\n\nThe BA in Writing, Literature, and Publishing requires 52 credits. Students are provided with knowledge of literary history and forms from diverse theoretical and cultural perspectives, as well as skills to read, think, and write critically. Students acquire skills in information literacy and creative writing, with the goal of developing works in one or more literary genres.\n\nThe Master of Arts in Publishing & Writing is a 40-credit program. Students can choose from book, magazine, and electronic publishing courses, in a program that blends together an overview of the publishing industry from writing and editing through design, production, and distribution.\n\nStudents can enroll full-time or part-time. Full-time enrollment is typically 8 or 12 credits per semester, and students complete the degree in two years; part-time students complete the degree in two-and-a-half to three years.\n\nEmerson College has an extensive film program that is one of the largest in the United States. In 2008/2009, it gave out 368 degrees in Film, Radio, and Television. Students can take advantage of the schools wide course offerings that allows them to major in a wide range of positions within the Visual Media Arts including Film Production, Post Production, Media Studies, Interactive Media, Experimental Media, Documentary Production, Directing, Producing, and Animation among others. In July 2014, Emerson's Visual and Media Arts program was rated #9 in the nation by \"The Hollywood Reporter\".\n\nThe Engagement Game Lab is an applied research lab at Emerson College devoted to getting people involved with civic engagement in innovative ways and studying citizenship in a digital era. It is run by professionals, but also has student helpers and offers its resources to students who want to use them.\n\nEmerson College offers a large number of organizations, most of which are highly active and diverse ranging from curriculum-based activities to social action organizations. Organizations at Emerson College are either maintained by the Student Government Association (if the organizations are student-led) or by campus departments (if the organizations are managed by faculty or staff).\n\nThe largest student run, multi-camera, production in the nation, the EVVY Awards are Emerson College's annual award show. Judged by industry professionals, The EVVYs recognize Emerson student's achievements in their chosen discipline. Each May the show is broadcast live from the Cutler Majestic Theatre. Over 500 students are annually involved with the EVVY Awards. The organization is run entirely by Emerson students, and advised by staff members.\n\nThe 31st and 33rd Annual EVVY Awards won the College Television Award for Alternative/Variety programming.\n\nThe Emerson Channel is Emerson College's award-winning television station. The channel was created in 1999 under the Television, Radio, and Film Department. The organization is managed by a full-time staff member, and is run by Emerson College Students. Student works regularly receive collegiate Evvy awards.\n\nEIV was founded in 1975 and is Emerson's largest entirely student run organization. EIV funds and assists in the production of live news, teleplays, single camera narratives, and other shows selected by the student management board from proposals made by fellow students at the end of each semester. EIV is known for their Emmy and AP Award-winning show, \"EIV News at 9p\", as well as their pre-taped Evening News broadcast.\n\n\"Emertainment Monthly\" is Emerson College's official entertainment magazine. Modeled after professional entertainment journalism outlets like \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"Emertainment Monthly\" has been nominated for several EVVY Awards and participates in major entertainment events as official members of the press. \"Emertainment Monthly\" received the title of Best in Show in the \"Website Small School\" Category by the Associated Collegiate Press in 2015.\n\n\"The Berkeley Beacon\" is Emerson's student-run, weekly print newspaper. In 2012, it became the first collegiate newspaper website with a responsive design. It received the titles of Best in Show in the \"Four-Year Weekly\" and \"Website Small School\" categories by the Associated Collegiate Press in 2015.\n\nDance plays a large role in the student culture at Emerson College. In the Fall of 2007 Emerson student, Michael Lupacchino (’10), re-founded the Emerson Dance Company—an SGA recognized, inclusive organization focused on bringing an open outlet for dance to students of all levels, years, and majors at the college. The company holds bi-annual showcases at the end of every semester highlighting student dancers and choreographers, all of whom have auditioned at the start of every semester and applied to choreograph through a selection process run by the company's executive board.\n\nEmerson Dance Company (commonly referred to as EDC) also offers master classes, workshops, and events which are open to the entire Emerson community. In addition to participating in internal college activities, the group also engages in community service around the Boston area. The organization is actively involved with its alumni (inviting one back each semester to choreograph an alumni piece), as well as fellow college and professional level dance organizations around the Boston area (i.e. The Boston Ballet, Suffolk Dance, Northeastern Dance Company {NUDANCO}, and Urbanity Dance).\n\nThe company has been advised by Senior Dancer-In-Residence in the college's Performing Arts Department, Marlena Yannetti, since its inception. Emerson Dance Company hosts its showcases in Emerson's state of the art theatres, including the newly renovated Paramount Center Mainstage.\n\nThe College is a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (Division III), the Eastern College Athletic Conference (ECAC), and the New England Women's and Men's Athletic Conference (NEWMAC). Emerson previously competed as a charter member of the Great Northeast Athletic Conference (GNAC) from 1995 to 2013. The College was also a charter member of the Commonwealth Coast Conference (CCC) which it competed in from 1984 to 1989. The athletics department supports Lacrosse, Tennis, Baseball, Basketball, Cross country running, Golf, Volleyball and Soccer for all students in addition to Softball for women. The school also has an ice hockey club team, a cheerleading squad, and a Quidditch team.\n\nIn 2007 the women's softball team defeated Western New England College to clinch the GNAC championship and earn the department's first appearance in the NCAA tournament. http://www.emerson.edu/news-events/emerson-college-today/archives/2007?posting_id=6205\n\nIn 2012, Emerson's Women's Volleyball team defeated Rivier to become the 2012 GNAC Champions.\n\nThe 2015-16 men's basketball team won the school's first ever NEWMAC playoff game, defeating Springfield College 72-63.\n\nIn 2016 18 Emerson fielded 14 NCAA Division III men’s and women’s teams.\n\nWECB is the campus student run radio station, overseen by a faculty advisor. WECB broadcasts online at its website and on closed-circuit campus television (channel 56).\n\nIn 1983–84, WECB was scheduled for demolition without reconstruction, as part of the Mass Communications $1.6M renovation project. Carol Kamerschen, Greg Weremey, Barry Scott and Russ Weisenbacher were instrumental in fighting the board of trustees, and convincing them to allow Greg and Russ to design and build new studios at 126 Beacon Street, replacing the former facilities at 130 Beacon Street, 4th floor.\n\nETIN (Emerson's Talk and Information Network), an online talk radio service run by students, is also housed in the same space as WERS and WECB.\n\nThe college has a well-developed comedy community, including student groups specializing in various combinations of sketch comedy, improvisation, and short films. As of 2018 there are 10 recognized comedy organizations: Emerson Comedy Workshop, Chocolate Cake City, Inside Joke, Jimmy's Traveling All-Stars, Derbyn Comedy, This is Pathetic, Stroopwafel, Swollen Monkey Showcase, The Girlie Project and Police Geese.\n\nSeveral comedy classes, including \"Comedy Writing for Television,\" \"Intermediate Creative Writing: Comedy,\" and \"Comedy Writers' Room\" are a regular part of the curriculum.\nIn addition, the Emerson College Comedy Scholarship is offered each year to one rising senior who has \"demonstrated leadership and talent in the writing, performance, or direction of comedy.\" The college is also home to the American Comedy Archives, established in 2005 to \"acquire, preserve and make available primary source material that documents the professional activities of the ground breaking individuals who have written, produced or performed comedy for radio, television, motion pictures or live performance\".\n\nIn 2015, Emerson introduced a Comedic Arts major.\n\n"}
{"id": "430035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430035", "title": "Great books", "text": "Great books\n\nThe great books are books that constitute an essential foundation in the literature of Western culture. Specified sets of great books typically range from 100 to 150, though they differ according to purpose and context. For instance, some lists are built to be read by undergraduates in a college semester system (130 books, Torrey Honors Institute), some are compiled to be sold as a single set of volumes (500 books, Mortimer Adler), while some lists aim at a thorough literary criticism (2,400 books, Harold Bloom).\n\nThe great books are those that tradition, and various institutions and authorities, have regarded as constituting or best expressing the foundations of Western culture (the Western canon is a similar but broader designation); derivatively the term also refers to a curriculum or method of education based around a list of such books. Mortimer Adler lists three criteria for including a book on the list:\n\nThomas Jefferson, well known for his interest in higher education, frequently composed great books lists for his friends and correspondents, for example, for Peter Carr in 1785 and again in 1787.\n\nIn 1909, Harvard University published a 51-volume great books series, titled the Harvard Classics. These volumes are now in the public domain.\n\nThe Great Books of the Western World came about as the result of a discussion among American academics and educators, starting in the 1920s and 1930s and begun by Prof. John Erskine of Columbia University, about how to improve the higher education system by returning it to the western liberal arts tradition of broad cross-disciplinary learning. These academics and educators included Robert Hutchins, Mortimer Adler, Stringfellow Barr, Scott Buchanan, Jacques Barzun, and Alexander Meiklejohn. The view among them was that the emphasis on narrow specialization in American colleges had harmed the quality of higher education by failing to expose students to the important products of Western civilization and thought.\n\nThey were at odds both with much of the existing educational establishment and with contemporary educational theory. Educational theorists like Sidney Hook and John Dewey (\"see pragmatism\") disagreed with the premise that there was crossover in education.\n\nThe Great Books Program is a curriculum that makes use of this list of texts. As much as possible, students rely on primary sources. The emphasis is on open discussion with limited guidance by a professor, facilitator, or tutor. Students are also expected to write papers.\n\nIn 1920, Professor Erskine taught the first course based on the \"great books\" program, titled \"General Honors\", at Columbia University. He helped mold its core curriculum. It initially failed, however, shortly after its introduction due to fallings-out between the senior faculty over the best ways to conduct classes and due to concerns about the rigor of the courses. Thus junior faculty including Mark Van Doren and Mortimer Adler after 1923, taught a part of the course. The course was discontinued in 1928, though later reconstituted. Adler left for the University of Chicago in 1929, where he continued his work on the theme, and along with the University president, Robert M. Hutchins, held an annual seminar of great books. In 1937, when Mark Van Doren redesigned the course, it was already being taught at St. John's College, Annapolis, besides University of Chicago. This course later became Humanities A for freshmen, and subsequently evolved into Literature Humanities. Survivors, however, include Columbia's Core Curriculum, the Common Core at Chicago, and the Core Curriculum at Boston University, each heavily focused on the \"great books\" of the Western canon.\n\nA university or college Great Books Program is a program inspired by the Great Books movement begun in the United States in the 1920s. The aim of such programs is a return to the Western Liberal Arts tradition in education, as a corrective to the extreme disciplinary specialisation common within the academy. The essential component of such programs is a high degree of engagement with whole primary texts, called the Great Books. The curricula of Great Books programs often follow a canon of texts considered more or less essential to a student's education, such as Plato's \"Republic\", or Dante's \"Divine Comedy\". Such programs often focus exclusively on Western culture. Their employment of primary texts dictates an interdisciplinary approach, as most of the Great Books do not fall neatly under the prerogative of a single contemporary academic discipline. Great Books programs often include designated discussion groups as well as lectures, and have small class sizes. In general students in such programs receive an abnormally high degree of attention from their professors, as part of the overall aim of fostering a community of learning.\n\nThere are only a few true \"Great Books Programs\" still in operation. These schools focus almost exclusively on the Great Books Curriculum throughout enrollment and do not offer classes analogous to those commonly offered at other colleges. The first and best known of these schools is St. John's College in Annapolis and Santa Fe (program established in 1937); it was followed by Shimer College in Chicago, the Integral Program at Saint Mary's College of California (1955), Thomas More College of Liberal Arts in Merrimack, New Hampshire (est. 1978), Northeast Catholic College in Warner, New Hampshire, and Thomas Aquinas College in Santa Paula, California. More recent schools with this type of curriculum include New Saint Andrews College in Moscow, Idaho (est. 1994), Gutenberg College in Eugene, Oregon (est. 1994), Harrison Middleton University in Tempe, Arizona (est. 1998), Wyoming Catholic College in Lander, Wyoming (est. 2005), and Imago Dei College in Oak Glen, California (est. 2010). Fordham University's Honors Program at Rose Hill incorporates the Great Books curriculum into a rigorous first four semesters in the program. The University of Notre Dame's Program of Liberal Studies, established in 1950, is a highly regarded Great Books Program that operates as a separate institution within the College of Liberal Arts. Dharma Realm Buddhist University is the first Great Books school to offer curriculum combining Eastern and Western classics.\n\nThe Center for the Study of the Great Ideas advances the Great Conversation found in the great books by providing Adler's guidance, and resource materials through both live and on-line seminars, educational and philosophical consultation, international presence on the Internet, access to the Center's library collection of books, essays, articles, journals and audio/video programs. Center programs are unique in that they do not replicate other existing programs either started or developed by Adler.\n\nOver 100 institutions of higher learning in the United States, Canada, and Europe maintain some version of a Great Books Program as an option for students. Among these are:\n\nUnited States\n\n\nCanada\n\nEurope\nAsia\nIn contemporary scholarship, the great books curriculum was drawn into the popular debate about multiculturalism, traditional education, the \"culture war,\" and the role of the intellectual in American life. Much of this debate centered on reactions to the publication of \"The Closing of the American Mind\" in 1987 by Allan Bloom.\n\nThe \"Great Books of the Western World\" is a hardcover 60-volume collection (originally 54 volumes) of the books on the great books list (about 517 individual works). Many of the books in the collection were translated into English for the first time. A prominent feature of the collection is a two-volume Syntopicon that includes essays written by Mortimer Adler on 102 \"great ideas.\" Following each essay is an extensive outline of the idea with page references to relevant passages throughout the collection. Familiar to many Americans, the collection is available from Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., which owns the copyright.\n\nShortly after Adler retired from the Great Books Foundation in 1989, a second edition (1990) of the \"Great Books of the Western World\" was published; it included more Hispanic and female authors and, for the first time, works by black authors. During his tenure as president of the Foundation, Adler had resisted such additions.\n\nThe following is an example list, in chronological order, compiled from \"How to Read a Book\" by Mortimer Adler (1940), and \"How to Read a Book\", 2nd ed. by Mortimer Adler and Charles Van Doren (1972):\n\nThe original edition of \"How to Read a Book\" contained a separate \"contemporary list\" because \"Here one's judgment must be tentative\" All but the following authors were incorporated into the single list of the revised edition:\n\nIn 1954 Mortimer Adler hosted a live weekly television series in San Francisco, comprising 52 half-hour programs, entitled \"The Great Ideas\". These programs were produced by the Institute for Philosophical Research and were carried as a public service by the American Broadcasting Company, presented by National Educational Television (NET), the precursor to what is now PBS. Adler bequeathed these films to the Center for the Study of the Great Ideas, where they are available for purchase.\n\nIn 1993 and 1994, The Learning Channel created a series of one-hour programs discussing many of the great books of history and their impact on the world. It was narrated by Donald Sutherland and Morgan Freeman, amongst others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8248904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8248904", "title": "Henry Kronenberg", "text": "Henry Kronenberg\n\nHenry Kronenberg (fl. 2000s) is an American physician and academic. he is the immediate past Division Head of Endocrinology at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, MA and a Professor of Medicine at the Harvard Medical School. He is noted for his work on parathyroid hormone and the use of genetic mouse models to understand the role of parathyroid hormone and parathyroid hormone-related protein in the regulation of bone formation and remodeling. He graduated from Harvard College and Columbia Medical School.\n\nDr. Kronenberg has made a series of fundamental observations of importance to the understanding of how several peptides regulate the formation and remodeling of bone. These include the cloning of a cDNA for parathyroid hormone, the identification of a role for parathyroid hormone-related protein in endochondral ossification through Indian hedgehog (IHH) activation, and studies that identified a role for parathyroid hormone in the regulation of the bone marrow stem cell niche.\n\nHe has served as the President of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research and the Endocrine Society. He was a member of the Board of Advisors of the Rolanette and Berdon Lawrence Bone Disease Program of Texas from 2006-2012.\n"}
{"id": "4484508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4484508", "title": "History of Harvard University", "text": "History of Harvard University\n\nHarvard College, around which Harvard University eventually grew, was founded in 1636 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, making it the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States.\n\nFor centuries, its graduates dominated Massachusetts' clerical and civil ranks and beginning in the 19th century its stature became national, then international, as a dozen graduate and professional schools were formed alongside the nucleus undergraduate College. Historically influential in national roles are the schools of medicine (1782), law (1817) and business (1908) as well as the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (1890).\n\nSince the late 19th century Harvard has been one of the most prestigious schools in the world, its library system and financial endowment larger than those of any other.\n\nWith some 17,000 Puritans migrating to New England by 1636, Harvard was founded in anticipation of the need for training clergy for the new commonwealth, a \"church in the wilderness\". Harvard was established in 1636 by vote of the Great and General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. In 1638, the school received a printing pressthe only press in what is now the United States until Harvard acquired a second in 1659. The first printing press in North America was brought from Spain to Mexico City, with production beginning in 1539.\n\nIn 1639, the college was renamed Harvard College after clergyman John Harvard, a University of Cambridge alumnus who had willed the new school £779 pounds sterling and his library of some 400 books.\n\nThe colony charter creating the Harvard Corporation was granted in 1650 at the beginning of the English Interregnum. When the college's first president Henry Dunster abandoned Puritanism in favor of the English Baptist faith in 1654, he provoked a controversy that highlighted two distinct approaches to dealing with dissent in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. The colony's Puritan leaders, whose own religion was born of dissent from mainstream Church of England, generally worked for reconciliation with members who questioned matters of Puritan theology, but responded much more harshly to outright rejection of Puritanism.\n\nDunster's conflict with the colony's magistrates began when he failed to have his infant son baptized, believing as an adherent of the Believers baptism of English Baptists and/or Anabaptists that only adults should be baptized. Efforts to restore Dunster to Puritan orthodoxy failed and his apostasy proved untenable to colony leaders who had entrusted him in his job as Harvard's president to uphold the colony's religious mission, thus he represented a threat to the stability of society. Dunster exiled himself in 1654 and moved to nearby Plymouth Colony, where he died in 1658. Because it had been illegal for the colony to establish a college, Charles II rescinded the Massachusetts Bay Colony charter in 1684 by writ of scire facias.\n\nIn 1692, the leading Puritan divine Increase Mather became president of Harvard. One of his acts was replacing pagan classics with books by Christian authors in ethics classes and maintaining a high standard of discipline. The Harvard \"Lawes\" of 1642 and the \"Harvard College Laws of 1700\" testify to its original high level of discipline. Students were required to observe rules of pious decorum inconceivable in the 19th century and ultimately to prove their fitness for the bachelor's degree by showing that they could \"read the original of the Old and New Testament into the Latin tongue, and resolve them logically\". Harvard's leadership and alumni (including Increase Mather and his son Cotton Mather) played a central role in the Salem Witch Trials 16921693.\n\nDuring Harvard's early years, the town of Cambridge maintained order on campus and provided economic support, as the local Puritan minister had direct oversight of Harvard and ensured the orthodoxy of its leadership. By 1700, Harvard was strong enough to regulate and discipline its own people and to a large extent the direction in which support and assistance flowed was reversed, Harvard now providing financial support for local economic expansion, improvements to public health and construction of local roads, meetinghouses and schools.\n\nThe early motto of Harvard was \"Veritas Christo et Ecclesiae\", meaning \"Truth for Christ and the Church\". In the early classes, half the graduates became ministers (though by the 1760s the proportion was down to 15%) and ten of Harvard's first twelve presidents were ministers. Systematic theological instruction was inaugurated in 1721 and by 1827 Harvard became a nucleus of theological teaching in New England.\n\nThe end of Mather's presidency in 1701 marked the start of a long struggle between orthodoxy and liberalism. Harvard's first secular president was John Leverett, who began his term in 1708. Leverett left the curriculum largely intact and sought to keep the College independent of the overwhelming influence of any single sect.\n\nDuring the American Revolution, Loyalist alumni were outnumbered seven to one by Patriots—seven alumni died in the fighting.\n\nThroughout the 18th century, Enlightenment ideas of the power of reason and free will became widespread among Congregational ministers, putting those ministers and their congregations in tension with more traditionalist, Calvinist parties. When the Hollis Professor of Divinity David Tappan died in 1803 and the president of Harvard Joseph Willard died a year later, in 1804 a struggle broke out over their replacements. Henry Ware was elected to the chair in 1805 and the liberal Samuel Webber was appointed to the presidency of Harvard two years later, which signaled the changing of the tide from the dominance of traditional ideas at Harvard to the dominance of liberal, Arminian ideas (defined by traditionalists as Unitarian ideas).\n\nIn 1846, the natural history lectures of Louis Agassiz were acclaimed both in New York and on his campus at Harvard College. Agassiz's approach was distinctly idealist and posited Americans' \"participation in the Divine Nature\" and the possibility of understanding \"intellectual existences\". Agassiz's perspective on science combined observation with intuition and the assumption that one can grasp the \"divine plan\" in all phenomena. When it came to explaining life-forms, Agassiz resorted to matters of shape based on a presumed archetype for his evidence. This dual view of knowledge was in concert with the teachings of Common Sense Realism derived from Scottish philosophers Thomas Reid and Dugald Stewart, whose works were part of the Harvard curriculum at the time. The popularity of Agassiz's efforts to \"soar with Plato\" probably also derived from other writings to which Harvard students were exposed, including Platonic treatises by Ralph Cudworth, John Norris and in a Romantic vein Samuel Coleridge. The library records at Harvard reveal that the writings of Plato and his early modern and Romantic followers were almost as regularly read during the 19th century as those of the \"official philosophy\" of the more empirical and more deistic Scottish school.\n\nBetween 1830 and 1870, Harvard became \"privatized\". While the Federalists controlled state government, Harvard had prospered and the 1824 defeat of the Federalist Party in Massachusetts allowed the renascent Democratic-Republicans to block state funding of private universities. By 1870, the politicians and ministers that heretofore had made up the university's board of overseers had been replaced by Harvard alumni drawn from Boston's upper-class business and professional community and funded by private endowment.\nDuring this period, Harvard experienced unparalleled growth that securely placed it financially in a league of its own among American colleges. Ronald Story notes that in 1850, Harvard's total assets were \"five times that of Amherst and Williams combined, and three times that of Yale\". Story also notes that \"all the evidence… points to the four decades from 1815 to 1855 as the era when parents, in Henry Adams's words, began 'sending their children to Harvard College for the sake of its social advantages'\". Under President Eliot's tenure, Harvard earned a reputation for being more liberal and democratic than either Princeton or Yale in regard to bigotry against Jews and other ethnic minorities. In 1870, one year into Eliot's term, Richard Theodore Greener became the first African-American to graduate from Harvard College. Seven years later, Louis Brandeis, the first Jewish justice on the Supreme Court, graduated from Harvard Law School. Nevertheless, Harvard became the bastion of a distinctly Protestant élite – the so-called Boston Brahmin class – and continued to be so well into the 20th century.\nThe annual undergraduate tuition was $300 in the 1930s and $400 in the 1940s, doubling to $800 in 1953. It reached $2,600 in 1970 and $22,700 in 2000.\n\nCharles W. Eliot, president 1869–1909, eliminated the favored position of Christianity from the curriculum while opening it to student self-direction. While Eliot was the most crucial figure in the secularization of American higher education, he was motivated not by a desire to secularize education, but by transcendentalist Unitarian convictions. Derived from William Ellery Channing and Ralph Waldo Emerson, these convictions were focused on the dignity and worth of human nature, the right and ability of each person to perceive truth and the indwelling God in each person.\n\nFootball, originally organized by students as an extracurricular activity, was banned twice by the university for being a brutal and dangerous sport. However, by the 1880s football became a dominant force at the college as the alumni became more involved in the sport. In 1882, the faculty formed a three-member athletic committee to oversee all intercollegiate athletics, but due to increasing student and alumni pressure the committee was expanded in 1885 to include three student and three alumni members. The alumni's role in the rise and commercialization of football, the leading moneymaker for athletics by the 1880s, was evident in the fundraising for the first steel-reinforced concrete stadium. The class of 1879 donated $100,000 – nearly one-third of the cost – to the construction of the 35,000-seat stadium, which was completed in 1903, with the remainder to be collected from future ticket sales.\n\nThe school, the third-oldest medical school in the United States, was founded in 1782 as Massachusetts Medical College by John Warren, Benjamin Waterhouse and Aaron Dexter. It relocated from Cambridge across the river to Boston in 1810. The medical school was tied to the rest of the University \"only by the tenuous thread of degrees\", but its strong faculty gave it a national reputation by the early 19th century.\n\nThe medical school moved to its current location on Longwood Avenue in 1906, where the \"Great White Quadrangle\" or HMS Quad with its five white marble buildings was established.\n\nThe reputation continued to grow into the 20th century, especially in terms of scientific research and support from regional and national elites. Fifteen scientists won the Nobel Prize for work done at the Medical School. Its four major flagship teaching hospitals are Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston Children's Hospital and Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nThe Harvard Law School was established in 1817, making it the oldest continuously operating law school in the nation. It was a small operation and grew slowly. By 1827, it was down to one faculty member. Nathan Dane, a prominent alumnus, endowed the Dane Professorship of Law and insisting that it be given to then Supreme Court Justice Joseph Story. For a while, the school was called Dane Law School. Story's belief in the need for an elite law school based on merit and dedicated to public service helped build the school's reputation at the time. Enrollment remained low as academic legal education was considered to be of little added benefit to apprenticeships in legal practice.\nRadical reform came in the 1870s, under Dean Christopher Columbus Langdell (1826–1906). Its new curriculum set the national standard and was copied widely in the United States. Langdell developed the case method of teaching law, based on his belief that law could be studied as a \"science\" gave university legal education a reason for being distinct from vocational preparation. The school introduced a first-year curriculum that was widely imitated, based on classes in contracts, property, torts, criminal law and civil procedure.\n\nCritics bemoaned abandonment of the more traditional lecture method, because of its efficiency and the lower workloads it placed on faculty and students. Advocates of the case method had a sounder theoretical basis in scientific research and the inductive method. Langdell's graduates became leading professors at other law schools where they introduced the case method. From its founding in 1900, the Association of American Law Schools promoted the case method in law schools that sought accreditation.\n\nAs the College modernized in the late 19th century, the faculty was organized into departments and began to add graduate programs, especially the PhD. Charles William Eliot, president from 1869 to 1909, was a chemist who had spent two years in Germany studying their universities. Thousands of Americans, mostly Harvard and Yale alumni, had attended German universities, especially Berlin and Göttingen. Eliot used the German model to set up graduate programs at Harvard and he formed a graduate department in 1872, which granted its first Ph.D. degrees in 1873 to William Byerly in mathematics and Charles Whitney in history. Eliot set up the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences with its own dean and budget in 1890, which dealt with graduate students and funded research programs.\n\nBy 2004, there were 3,200 graduate students in 53 separate programs and forty former or current professors had won a Nobel Prize, most of them scientists or economists based in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.\n\nFrom its beginning in 1908, the Harvard Business School had a close relationship with the corporate world. Within a few years of its founding many business leaders were its alumni and were hiring other alumni for starting positions in their firms. The School used Rockefeller funding in the 1920s to launch a major research program under Elton Mayo (1926–1947) for his \"Harvard human relations group\". Its findings revolutionized human relations in business and raised the reputation of the Business School from its initial \"low status as a trainer of money grabbers into a high prestige educator of socially-conscientious administrators\". Starting in 1935, the school began weekend and short-term leadership training workshops for executives of major corporations that further expanded its national role.\n\nBy 1949, almost half of all the holders of the MBA degree in the U.S. were alumni of the Business School and it was \"the most influential graduate school of business\".\n\nDuring the 20th century, Harvard's international reputation for scholarship grew as a burgeoning endowment and prominent professors expanded the university's scope. Explosive growth in the student population continued with the addition of new graduate schools and the expansion of the undergraduate program. It built the largest and finest academic library in the world and built up the labs and clinics needed to establish the reputation of its science departments and the Medical School. The Law School vied with Yale Law for preeminence, while the Business School combined a large-scale research program with a special appeal to entrepreneurs rather than accountants. The different schools maintain their separate endowments, which are very large in the case of the College/Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and the Business, Law and Medical Schools, but quite modest for the Divinity and Education schools.\n\nRadcliffe College, established in 1879 as sister school of Harvard College, became one of the most prominent schools for women in the United States. In the 1920s Edward Harkness (1874–1940), a Yale man with oil wealth, was ignored by his alma mater and so gave $12,000,000 to Harvard to establish a house system like that of Oxford University. Yale later took his money and set up a similar system.\n\nIn addition to the usual department, specialized research centers proliferated, especially to enable interdisciplinary research projects that could not be handled at the department level. However, the departments kept jealous control of the awarding of tenure; typically tenured professorships went to outsiders, and not as promotions to assistant professors. Older research centers include the East Asian Research Center, the Center for International Affairs, the Center for Eastern Studies, the Russian Research Center, the Charles Warren Center for Studies in American History and the Joint Center for Urban Studies (with MIT). The Centers raised their own money, sometimes from endowments, but most often from federal and foundation grants, making them increasingly independent entities.\n\nDuring World War II, Harvard was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy commission.\n\nThe annual undergraduate tuition was $300 in the 1920s and $400 in the 1930s, doubling to $800 in 1953. It reached $2,600 in 1970 and $22,700 in 2000.\n\nJames Bryant Conant (president, 1933–1953) pledged to reinvigorate creative scholarship at Harvard and reestablish its preeminence among research institutions. Viewing higher education as a vehicle of opportunity for the talented rather than an entitlement for the wealthy, Conant devised programs to identify, recruit, and support talented youth. In 1943, Conant decided that Harvard's undergraduate curriculum needed to be revised so as to place more emphasis on general education and called on the faculty make a definitive statement about what general education ought to be at the secondary as well as the college level. The resulting \"Report\", published in 1945, was one of the most influential manifestos in the history of American education in the 20th century.\n\nIn the decades immediately after 1945, Harvard reformed its admissions policies as it sought students from a more diverse applicant pool. Whereas Harvard undergraduates had almost exclusively been upper-class alumni of select New England \"feeder schools\" such as Exeter, Hotchkiss, Choate Rosemary Hall and Milton Academy, increasing numbers of international, minority and working-class students had by the late 1960s altered the ethnic and socio-economic makeup of the college.\n\nNot just undergraduates, but the faculty became more diverse, especially in its willingness to hire Jews, Catholics and foreign scholars. The History Department was among the first to hire Jews and how it contributed to the university trend toward professionalism from 1920 to 1950. Oscar Handlin became one of the most influential professors, training hundreds of graduate schools and later serving as head of the University Library.\n\nDuring the 20th century, Harvard's international reputation grew as a burgeoning endowment and prominent professors expanded the university's scope. Explosive growth in the student population continued with the addition of new graduate schools and the expansion of the undergraduate program.\n\nIn 1945, Harvard Medical School admitted its first class of women after a special committee concluded that male students would benefit from learning to view women as equals, that the lower-paid specialties typically shunned by men would benefit from the talents of women doctors and that the weakest third of each entering class of men could be replaced by a superior group of women.\n\nFor its first fifty years the undergraduate Radcliffe College, established in 1879 as the \"Harvard Annex for Women\", paid Harvard faculty to repeat their lectures for a female audience. During World War II, male and female undergraduates attended classes together for the first time, though it was many decades before the population of Radcliffe College reached parity with that of Harvard. In the 1970s, two agreements between Harvard and Radcliffe made Harvard responsible for essentially all undergraduate matters for women – including admissions, advising, instruction, housing, student life and athletics – though women were still formally admitted to and graduated from Radcliffe until a final merger in 1999 made Radcliffe a part of Harvard, at the same time creating the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nIn 2006, Lawrence Summers resigned his presidency after suggesting that women's underrepresentation in top science positions could be due to differences in \"intrinsic aptitude\".\n\nIn 1984, Harvard severed ties with undergraduate \"final clubs\" because of their refusal to admit women. As of 2016, Harvard bars members of single-sex organizations (such as final clubs, fraternities and sororities) from campus leadership positions such as team captaincies and from receiving recommendation letters from Harvard requisite for scholarships and fellowships such as the Marshall Scholarship and Rhodes Scholarship.\n\nThough Harvard ended required chapel in the mid-1880s, the school remained culturally Protestant and fears of dilution grew as enrollment of immigrants, Catholics and Jews surged at the turn of the 20th century. By 1908, Catholics made up nine percent of the freshman class and between 1906 and 1922 Jewish enrollment at Harvard increased from six to 25%. President A. Lawrence Lowell tried to impose a 12% quota on Jews, but the faculty rejected it even though he managed to cut the numbers in half anyway. By the end of World War II, the quotas and most of the latent antisemitism had faded away.\n\nPolicies of exclusion were not limited to religious minorities. In 1920, \"Harvard University maliciously persecuted and harassed\" those it believed to be gay via a \"Secret Court\" led by President Lowell. Summoned at the behest of a wealthy alumnus, the inquisitions and expulsions carried out by this tribunal, in conjunction with the \"vindictive tenacity of the university in ensuring that the stigmatization of the expelled students would persist throughout their productive lives\" led to two suicides. Harvard President Lawrence Summers characterized the 1920 episode as \"part of a past that we have rightly left behind\" and \"abhorrent and an affront to the values of our university\". As late as the 1950s, Wilbur Bender, then the dean of admissions for Harvard College, was seeking better ways to \"detect homosexual tendencies and serious psychiatric problems\" in prospective students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52226395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52226395", "title": "Institut français du Nigéria", "text": "Institut français du Nigéria\n\nThe French Institute in Nigeria (in French: Institut français du Nigéria) (IFN) is part of the worldwide organisation of Instituts français (French Institutes). The Abuja institute is the only in the country.\n\nThe primary goal of the institute is to provide French lessons, courses and examinations for children, students and professionals alike.\n\nThis institute counts over 2000 students every year, from various backgrounds. The IFN is also accredited to deliver international language certifications like: DELF, DALF, TCF, DELF Prim, DELF Junior and the TCF Québec.\n\nThe institute’s cultural center participates actively to the local and national art scene, by organising hundreds of cultural events every year, on a local, regional or national basis. \nIt also participates to external events, within the promotion of friendly ties between France and other francophone countries and Nigeria.\nIn addition to these events, the center offers regular classes in: piano, guitar, singing, dance and theatre and visual arts lessons.\n\nThe IFN shelters a media hub and a library with over 1000 francophone documents accessible to the wider audience, as well as an online ‘culturethèque’ (online cultural library) proposing an additional couple of thousands of documents.\n\nFrench schools in Nigeria:\n"}
{"id": "44857653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44857653", "title": "International Conference on Composite Materials", "text": "International Conference on Composite Materials\n\nInternational Conference on Composite Materials (ICCM) is an international scientific conference devoted to all aspects of composite materials. The list of topics includes manufacturing, mechanics, fracture and damage, fatigue, design of components and structures, impact behavior, experimental methods.\n\nThe conference was initiated by the Metallurgical Society of AIME. The first conference was held in 1975 simultaneously in Geneva and Boston and was rather small. The second conference, ICCM-2, held in 1978 in Toronto, Canada, gathered around 300 delegates. Official welcome was given by Frank Thurston, Director of the National Aeronautical Establishment, Ottawa; the key address was given by Alan Lovelace from NASA.\n\n"}
{"id": "1539745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1539745", "title": "International Student Festival in Trondheim", "text": "International Student Festival in Trondheim\n\nISFiT - The International Student Festival in Trondheim, Norway is the world's largest student festival with a thematic emphasis. Approximately 450 students from all over the world attend the festival. The themes change with each festival, but have always been related to social and political topics with international relevance.\n\nThe stated purpose of ISFiT is to be \"a meeting place for discussion and debate, an arena where ideas are born, friendships are made and valuable lessons are learned.\" The festival aims at fostering inspiration and being a starting point for international cooperation amongst students. ISFiT is a non-profit festival.\n\nThe ISFiT participants take part in different workshops, which highlight the festival theme in various ways. Several lectures and thematic meetings are arranged, where well-known international speakers share their views with the participants and others.\n\nISFiT has been arranged in Trondheim, Norway every second year since 1990. More than 450 students work voluntarily in order to organize the festival. The president for the festival in 2019 is Tyler Stewart.\n\nThe idea of an international student festival in Trondheim came to life in 1988. The thought was to gather students from different parts of the world in a combination of a conference and a festival.\n\nThe theme of ISFiT 1990 was \"A Changing Europe -- What are the Roles and Responsibilities of the Students and their Universities?,\" a timely theme, considering that the Berlin Wall fell shortly before the festival was held. Gro Harlem Brundtland opened the festival. ISFiT arranged for two trains, one from Budapest and one from Paris, to transport 375 students from all over Europe to Trondheim. For many of the participants, this was their first visit outside the Iron Curtain. This train ride has later been called \"The ISFiT Rail\". \n\nIn 1992, ISFiT had already established its name in the world. More than 4,300 applications were addressed to Trondheim from students all over the world. Norwegian Minister of Education and Research Gudmund Hernes opened the festival.\n\nIn 1994, the Dalai Lama visited ISFiT after he had received a visit from dedicated ISFiT representatives, who went to India and spent days outside his office until they got a 10-minute meeting with him. He was reported to have replied, \"Cancel my other appointments. This is more important.\" 1994 was also the year that ISFiT started to offer financial support, so that participants from even more countries could come to the festival. The Dalai Lama visited the Festival for the second time in 2015. \n\nThe Dialogue Groups were first introduced in 1997. Since then, the Dialogue Groups have been a seminar where participants from different sides of a conflict get to meet at neutral ground to share their experiences and discuss possible solutions to the conflict.\n\nIn 1999 The Student Peace Prize was awarded for the first time. Since then, the prize has been given every second year on behalf of all Norwegian students. Antero Benedito da Silva from East Timor was the first laureate. He received the award for his non-violent battle against the Indonesian occupation.\n\nMany world figures have attended ISFiT, and past speakers include former Director-General of WHO Dr Gro Harlem Brundtland and Nobel Peace Prize Laureates José Ramos-Horta, Wangari Maathai, Desmond Tutu, Betty Williams and Shirin Ebadi. Former US president Bill Clinton has participated via video conference.\n\nSince 2003, the festival has had participants from more than a hundred countries. \n\n\nISFiT 2009 was held from 20 February to 1 March in Trondheim, Norway. This was the 10th ISFiT-festival, the first was held in 1990. ISFiT is one of the world’s largest student festival with a thematic focus. Approximately 450 students from all over the world attend the festival. More than 350 students in Trondheim work voluntarily for the student festival. Nobel Peace Prize Laureates Desmond Tutu, Dr. Shirin Ebadi and Betty Williams are some of the introductory speakers at the festival.\n\nThe theme for ISFiT 2009 was peacebuilding. The thematic focus was illuminated through both the workshops and the meetings during the festival in addition to the cultural programme. According to the theme document “ISFIT 2009 sees peacebuilding as a long-term process, with the object to create a stable and lasting peace, a peace that is something more than just an absence of war. Peacebuilding shall create a solid foundation for a peaceful development, as well as increase the society’s ability to cope with conflicts in a peaceful way. ISFIT 2009 recognizes peace building both as a preventative process as well as a process of rebuilding. Peacebuilding appears between different actors on global, regional, national, local and interpersonal level.” <http://www.isfit.org/programme/page/show/programme-theme-document>\n\nThe Dialogue Groups 2009 kicked off 10 days before ISFiT 2009 with a seminar at Røros, and continued into the festival in Trondheim. In 2009 students from Israel/Palestine, Cyprus and Georgia/Abkhazia were invited to take part in the Dialogue Groups.\n\nIn addition to the workshops and the dialogue groups there were several lectures and thematic meetings, as well as concerts, exhibitions and performing arts.\n\nThrough the workshops all the participants of the festival will attend the different workshops. The workshops will highlight the festival themes in different ways. The workshops of ISFiT 2009 were:\n\nISFiT 2011 is a student festival that was held from February 11 to February 20, 2011 in Trondheim, Norway. This was the 11th ISFiT-festival. 525 students from 104 countries gathered in Trondheim to discuss the festival's main theme, global health. The festival's name was \"Globalize this: Health\".\n\nISFiT 2011 board defined global health as the health of the world population in an international context, looking beyond purely national perspectives and challenges. The concept covered all aspects of the human health – physical, mental, and social. Furthermore, the board defined health as an individual resource possessed by all people. By this, health is also a resource for local communities, nations and the world community. The global health affects and is affected by several international conditions – politics, security, economy and culture.\n\nKine Karlsen was voted President at a plenary session held at the Student Society in Trondheim in Trondheim on April 15, 2009.As president, she elected the following as members of the board:\n\n\nKine Karlsen resigned as President in late October 2010, after a leave of absence since August 2010. Jørgen W. Thorsen was prototed to President in November 2010, after serving as Acting President since Karlsen's leave. Karlsen continued as a regular member of the board.\n\nAs in previous years, workshops formed the core of ISFiT. The workshops highlighted the festival themes in different ways. The workshops of ISFiT 2011 were:\n\nOn 25 November 2010 it was announced that human rights activist Duško Kostić was awarded the Student Peace Prize. Kostić received the award at a ceremony at Olavshallen, 18 February 2011. He was also honored with a memory plate in Jomfrugata in Trondheim as a part of the Walk of Peace-project, that was unveiled during ISFiT 2011.\n\nISfIT 2013 was a student festival held from February 7 to February 17, 2013, in Trondheim, Norway. \n\nOn April 6, 2011 a plenary session was held at the Student Society in Trondheim to elect the President for the upcoming festival in 2013. Several pre-announced candidates ran for president and presented what they believed should be the main of ISFiT 2013; among them were Guro Grytli Seim (Energy), Marianne Ytterbø (Technology) and Kaja Juul Skarbø (Trade).\n\nJuul Skarbø and Grytli Seim were the remaining candidates after the preliminary rounds, and Juul Skarbø won in the end with 110 votes to 101, making \"Trade\" the main theme for ISFiT 2013. During the debate Juul Skarbø emphasized trade as a mean for social and economic development, but also as an obstacle for development. She pointed to power structures, sustainability, ethics and human trafficking as interesting approaches to the theme.\n\nThe theme for ISFiT 2013, Global Trade, covered many different areas of human activity. Juul Skarbø proposed topics as diverse as finance, economies of war, subsidies, human trafficking and local and global markets, for some of the workshops during the festival.\n\nISFiT 2013 defined trade as legal and illegal exchange of goods, services, labour, capital and financial instruments. By this definition, international trade encompasses issues that are both the reason for, and the consequences of, such exchanges. They discussed solutions to global trade issues in a long-term perspective. ISFiT 2013 also want to create a constructive debate and dialogue across ideological and national boundaries. \n\nThe theme was discussed in the workshops, at plenary sessions and under the event ISFiT open. They want to put a spotlight on issues like: Do students have the power to change a political regime? Who dominate the global market, and why? Is there a limit for what we can buy or sell? What is the reason for starvation when tons of food are thrown away in the western countries? Can consumption be a way to communicate and express our cultural identity and values? Is mixing business and social development the future?\n\nAs president, Juul Skarbø elected the following as members of the board: \n\nISFiT is a combination of a festival and a conference, and has been offering a wide cultural program since the festival started in 1990. ISFiT is an international festival and a meeting place, and the cultural program is characterized by this. The cultural program creates an arena where the participants get the opportunity to break down cultural barriers. ISFiT offers both concerts, art and performing arts. There are also ceremonies held at the start and the end of the festival, as well as a ceremony for the Student Peace Prize.\n\nA diversity of concerts is arranged during ISFiT, both at the Student Society and external scenes, like the Nidaros Cathedral.\n\nISFiT aims to be a place where \"the leaders of today meet the leaders of tomorrow.\" During ISFiT, several plenary sessions are held. The plenary sessions aims to be a place to be inspired, a place to learn, a place to discuss global issues, and a place to be heard.\n\nThe workshops consist of smaller groups of 20-30 students from different countries. During the workshops, the participants collectively acquire knowledge of the workshop theme, as well as cultural differences and similarities, through a variety of methods. The workshops also have the opportunity to invite famous and knowledgeable people from all over the world to start and lead discussion and debate.\n\nThe Student Peace Prize is awarded biennially to a student or a student organization that has made a significant contribution to creating peace and promoting human rights. The prize is awarded on behalf of all Norwegian students, and is administered by the Student Peace Prize Secretariat in Trondheim, which is a part of the ISFiT-organization, and which appoints a national nominations committee with representatives from universities and colleges in Norway, as well as an independent Peace Prize Committee that awards the prize. The award ceremony takes place during ISFiT and is one of the main events of the festival.\n\nThe Dialogue Groups is an initiative to peace building in practice. The Dialogue Groups invite students from different sides of conflicts to meet on equal grounds for sharing of experiences and dialogue.\n\nSouth Africa, Guatemala, Northern Ireland, Colombia, Kosovo, Rwanda, Kashmir, Israel, Palestine, Sri Lanka, Balkan and Russia/Chechnya, Iran/USA, Ethiopia/Eritrea, Sudan, the Great Lakes region (Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and Congo), Georgia/Abkhazia and Cyprus have been represented since 1997.\n\nThe Dialogue leaders and facilitators are Norwegian students who have theoretical and practical training in using dialogue as a tool for constructive communication and conflict resolution. External experts and professional mediators will also be used in parts of the seminar.\n\n"}
{"id": "56353015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56353015", "title": "Interstudent", "text": "Interstudent\n\nINTERSTUDENT is a competition for the best foreign student in Poland, which is organized by Perspektywy Education Foundation. It is open to all foreign students studying at Polish universities and other higher education institutions.\n\nCurrently, about 72 thousand foreign students from 166 countries are studying in Poland.\n\n"}
{"id": "48897888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48897888", "title": "Invest in US", "text": "Invest in US\n\nInvest in US is an early childhood education initiative and public awareness campaign spearheaded by the bi-partisan, non-profit First Five Years Fund and funded by foundations, corporations, and individuals. The initiative works to expand high quality early childhood programs and research, as well as to offer resources to community leaders working to increase access to early learning.\n\nOn December 10, 2014, President Obama held the White House Summit on Early Education, attended by officials representing school districts and state and local governments, corporate and community leaders, and other advocates for supporting early education in the U.S. \n\nAt the event, the president unveiled the Invest in US initiative, created in partnership with the First Five Years Fund. The initiative’s goal is to expand programs, research, and funding for high quality early childhood education. This public-private partnership initially generated $333 million in philanthropic commitments from corporations, foundations, and individuals (total commitments increased to just over $340 million by December 2015). More than $750 million in federal funding for early learning programs through the Preschool Development Grants and Early Head Start-Child Care (EHS-CC) Partnerships were also announced to support early learning for over 63,000 additional children across the country. Of the $750 million total, $250 million was awarded in Education Department grants to these 18 states: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Montana, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Vermont and Virginia. And $500 million in funding from the Health and Human Services Department is going to more than 40 states to expand Early Head Start and child care programs.\n\nThe Invest in US and federal funding combined targeted more than $1 billion in funding for early childhood education. Though praised by early learning advocates, the funding was noted by several sources to be far short of the $75 billion, 10-year investment in preschool that President Obama had previously proposed.\n\nThe White House made the case that increasing access to high-quality early learning opportunities would not only benefit those children reached but American society generally and that early learning programs actually pay for themselves over time. In a conference call with reporters the day before the White House Summit, Education Secretary Arne Duncan made the case for investing in early education, citing research from Nobel Prize-winning economist James Heckman that showed that every dollar invested in high-quality preschool and other early learning opportunities can generate an $7 ROI.\n\nThe Invest in US fact sheet released by the White House on the day of the summit increased that 7-to-1 ROI projection, stating that expanding early learning initiatives should provide benefits to society of around $8.60 for every $1 spent.\n\nCorporations and foundations pledging $10 million or more to support the Invest in US initiative included Disney, the J.B. and M.K. Pritzker Family Foundation, the Kresge Foundation, the George Kaiser Family Foundation, PBS and the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, the Buffett Early Childhood Fund, the Trust for Learning, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the David and Laura Merage Foundation, the Greater Cleveland Community Effort, the William Penn Foundation, the Bainum Family Foundation, and Age of Learning, Inc. / ABCmouse.com.\n\nIn addition to the organizations and individuals who pledged financial support for Invest in US, 22 communities and states committed to making early childhood programs a policy priority, and over 40 advocacy organizations announced ongoing support of the initiative. Cities supporting the initiative included Boston, Chicago Cleveland, Denver, New York City, San Antonio, San Francisco, Seattle, and Tulsa; states included Alabama, Delaware, Georgia, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia.\n\nThe initiative also identified 10 organizations that would continue to help funders with early learning planning grants, technical assistance, communities, and resources: Alliance for Early Success, BUILD, Early Childhood Funders Collaborative, Early Childhood-LINC, National Association of Counties, National Governors Association, National Institute for Early Education Research (NIEER), National League of Cities, The Ounce of Prevention Fund, and the U.S. Conference of Mayors.\n\nOn March 30, 2015, Invest in US partner Houghton Mifflin Harcourt launched a series of quarterly symposia, called Conversations in Early Learning, to promote collaboration within the early education community. On April 15–16, the 2015 ECEC Invest in US Forum was held in Washington, D.C., “to amplify the voice of high-quality taxpaying and non-profit community early care and education providers” and to hold “discussions of policy issues impacting the provider community.” In September, 2015, Invest in US and other partners announced a new $100 million loan fund to pay for early childhood education providers’ classroom renovations and other infrastructure improvements that they project will benefit 36,000 children.\n\nA December 2015 event was held in Washington, D.C. to commemorated the first anniversary of the 2014 White House summit on early childhood education and to announce a related program, the Early Childhood Innovation Network. At the event, Valerie Jarrett, President Obama’s senior advisor, spoke about the first year of Invest in US: “Invest in US has continued to press for more children to have this very important access to early education and we’ve been holding webinars and filming PSAs and meeting with stakeholders from all across the country, and we have just done tremendous work, but we want to keep leading and we want to get everyone engaged.” At the same event, the Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts announced it would become the latest partner in the Invest in US campaign, pledging more than $1 million for early childhood education in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "30047765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047765", "title": "Janet Graham", "text": "Janet Graham\n\nJanet Christine Graham (born 4 June 1948) is an English composer, music educator and music therapist. She was born in Consett, County Durham, and studied composition at the Royal Academy of Music from 1966–70 with James Iliff. After her time at the Royal Academy of Music, she began teaching piano at the Mid Hertfordshire Music Centre while continuing to compose and study with Elisabeth Lutyens. She married organist Philip Redpath Deane on 8 September 1973. In 1978,two of her pieces were selected for the BBC Young Composers' Forum. In 1986 Graham began volunteering at a fortnightly musical evening at a local psychiatric hospital. After two years of training at the Nordoff Robbins Centre in London, Graham became a music therapist in 1990 and was a therapist and tutor there for 17 years. In 2007 she moved to the Nordoff Robbins North East where she became Head Music Therapist.Here, Graham established new music therapy projects and lead local courses at hospitals and care homes; she particularly worked with autistic children and adults as well as elderly people with dementia. After retiring from music therapy in 2013, Graham began composing again and playing music with local groups. In 2004, Janet Graham published a research project in the British Journal of Learning Disabilities titled, \"Communicating with the Uncommunicative: Music Therapy with Pre-verbal Adults,\" in which she found improvement of two patients' general communication abilities.\n\nSelected works include:\n\nHer music has been recorded and issued on CD, including:\n"}
{"id": "29663418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29663418", "title": "Jerry Gladstone", "text": "Jerry Gladstone\n\nJerry Gladstone (born March 11, 1960) is an author, personal life coach and marketing executive. During his 25-year career, Gladstone specialized in the production and distribution of entertainment fine art for major movie studios and celebrities. Gladstone is the founder of The Common Thread Success Academy, The Common Thread Group and author of the International Best Selling Book, \"The Common Thread of Overcoming Adversity and Living Your Dreams\". He is a life and success coach Certified by \nThe International Coach Federation (ICF).\n\n\"The Common Thread\" book features interviews done by Jerry with many well-known celebrities and focuses on their insights about overcoming adversity. The book, published by New York publisher Morgan James Publishing, has met with rave reviews and had received endorsements from many high-profile celebrities. \n\nJerry L. Gladstone was born March 11, 1960 in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Massapequa Park, New York. He is an author, personal life coach and marketing executive. During his 25-year career, Gladstone specialized in the production and distribution of entertainment fine art for major movie studios and celebrities. Gladstone is the founder of The Common Thread Group, The Common Thread Success Academy and author of the International Best Selling Book \"The Common Thread of Overcoming Adversity and Living Your Dreams\".\n\nThe Common Thread book feature's interviews done by Jerry with many well-known celebrities and focuses on their insights about overcoming adversity.\n\nJerry Gladstone was born in Brooklyn, New York, and raised with his two older sisters Marla and Bonnie in Massapequa Park, Long Island, New York, by his parents Martin and Estelle. Gladstone excelled in sports, earning a black belt in karate. He has also competed in many marathons and triathlons. Gladstone attended the University of Rhode Island on a scholarship for football. He graduated URI with a Bachelor of Science.\n\nHe began his first venture with an initial capital investment of $2,000. Under Gladstone’s leadership, the company was awarded licensing agreements for both the publication of art and distribution. Licenses have included Fox Studios, Warner Bros., DreamWorks SKG, Apple Corp. as well as Jim Davis’ Garfield and others.\n\nGladstone also entered into an agreement with Mel Fisher, the American treasure hunter. The agreement allowed Gladstone to offer for sale to the public Fisher's personal collection of treasure recovered from the Atocha, a treasure ship which sank in 1621. The Atocha discovery included rare gold doubloons, silver bars, jewelry and emeralds.\n\nThrough the years, Gladstone and his management team have secured licenses including Elvis Presley Enterprises, Frank Sinatra Enterprises, entertainment and pop culture artist Joe Petruccio, The Paradise Collection of Dan Mackin and legendary musician Brian Wilson, Jefferson Airplane's Marty Balin, the classic rock and The Beatles portfolio of The Hulton Archive, the Led Zeppelin Collection from James Fortune, The Grateful Dead and Bob Marley Archives of Peter Simon, classic rock and The Beatles from The Mirror Pix Archives and the new Michael Ochs Collections' classic rock and jazz.\n\nGladstone has been the subject of numerous articles in business and trade newspapers and magazines. Both USA Today and CNBC have featured Jerry as an industry authority in the field of collecting entertainment fine art. His positive attitude and success has also resulted in his being highlighted in the book, “Attitude is Everything,” by motivational speaker and author Jeffrey Keller.\n\nSome of the entertainment fine art offered by Gladstone and his companies were \"The Scottsdale Collection,\" art and memorabilia signed by Muhammad Ali during a witnessed in-person signing, as well as artwork signed by Tiger Woods and Michael Jordan through Upper Deck Authenticated. Through a license agreement with MGM studios he also offered personalized artwork from Sylvester Stallone celebrating the 30th anniversary of Rocky.\n\nAl Pacino was also secured for an in-person signing by Gladstone for Joe Petruccio artwork featuring images from The Godfather and Scarface.\n\nIn 1998, Getty Images, successfully purchased the business owned by Gladstone. Two years later, Getty decided to take a different business path, and Gladstone reacquired the company in October 2001. In 2002, Gladstone relocated the corporate headquarters from New York City to Boca Raton, Florida. In 2010, Gladstone started a new business venture in Delray Beach, Florida, also specializing in the licensing, production and distribution of entertainment fine art with a focus on licensed limited edition art and photography from both the music and entertainment industries. The company includes retail galleries located in Florida in Delray Beach and Key West.\n\nUnder license, Gladstone produces Mixed Martial Arts fine art photography created from sports and celebrity artist Eric Williams. UFC fighters that have done signings with Gladstone include Anderson \"The Spider\" Silva, Georges St-Pierre, Wanderlei Silva, Forrest Griffin, Chuck \"The Iceman\" Liddell and Randy \"The Natural\" Couture.\n\nGlastone hosted the first Mixed Martial Arts Expo in South Florida in 2013 with UFC legend Randy Couture as the featured guest.\n\nJerry Gladstone is married with 3 children.\n"}
{"id": "1813408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813408", "title": "KXSC (AM)", "text": "KXSC (AM)\n\nKXSC (1560 AM) is the student-run college radio station at the University of Southern California. Listeners can tune in via the internet at KXSC.org/listen, and at 1560 AM in the area immediately surrounding USC's campus. KXSC provides original programming 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The station also provides students with the opportunity to work at a college radio station and learn the basics of the music industry.\n\nKXSC—over 200 members—is entirely composed of student volunteers. KXSC is made up of 34 staff members, around 70 DJs, and over 100 interns. A General Manager oversees six main departments: programming, music, concerts, promotions, operations, and sales. In addition to working for one or more of these departments, staff members must work at least two hours per week in the studio during their scheduled office hours.\n\nKXSC traces its roots to the original KUSC, which was operated by students starting in 1946. Eventually, KUSC transitioned to classical programming and moved off-campus in the mid-1970s.\n\nIn 1975, a group of students reacted to renewed demand for student-run radio at USC and founded KSCR, a carrier-current station broadcasting at 1560AM out of the Hancock Foundation Building. Eventually, due to equipment failures, the University authorized a grant to move KSCR to a new location in Marks Hall and construct new, state-of-the-art studios. In 1984, KSCR transitioned the carrier-current broadcast to its new studios.\n\nThe station was incorporated under USC Student Senate in 1988 thanks to an outpouring of student support. New funds enabled new studio upgrades, and a new logo \"SC-53\" was adopted to signify a new beginning. Then, starting in late 1990, KSCR started broadcasting through downtown's then-dominant cable provider, Continental Cablevision, as the background audio to their programming guide channel 37. A change in station branding to \"The Underground\" commemorated this change and the station's new focus on independent music. In 1991, KSCR began broadcasting a low-power FM signal in the downtown Los Angeles and USC campus area at 104.7 MHz FM. For a period, this allowed the station to have an unprecedented simulcast of 104.7FM/530AM/Cable Channel 37. Believing that 1980s' style new wave and modern rock music was stale and feeling that the budding grunge sound of alternative music was already served by many area stations, KSCR's general manager that same year controversially switched the station's daytime programming to the nation's first electronica/techno format, predating the launch of the area's 103.1 MARS-FM, which would be the country's first commercial electronica format. KSCR called its format \"The Pulse of the 90's\" and it survived even past MARS-FM's demise. KSCR then received significant press attention when it turned over its airwaves to nearly all the former MARS-FM on-air personalities to host a special \"MARS Day\" to acknowledge that station's major role in creating and defining the Southern California rave culture. The KSCR general manager who created the \"Pulse\" format went on to launch the dance/techno-formatted RENEGADE RADIO at KWIZ 96.7FM in 1993, and feeling that format was now being served, KSCR's management switched the student station back to \"The Underground\" branding and an alternative rock format.\n\nKSCR eventually was forced to cease broadcasting its 104.7FM signal after the commercial station broadcasting at that frequency in an outlying area complained of signal interference. The station began webcasting in April 1998. At first, KSCR broadcast online through a USC server using RealAudio. This made the station's programming available to a worldwide audience. The station's slogan changed to \"revolutionary radio\" to commemorate the renewed student interest in KSCR thanks to its new online technology.\n\nIn 2010, KSCR adopted the call letters KXSC in order to be eligible to obtain a new FM license from the FCC. The station can now be found in the basement of the Ronald Tutor Campus Center on the USC campus.\n\nOne of KXSC's greatest assets is its live programming. KXSC streams 50+ hours of live programming a week with a variety of show types including music, sports, news, and special programming. KXSC now broadcasts over-the-air in downtown Los Angeles at 1560 kHz AM, and offers two online streams using its own servers. KXSC's live stream can be listened to on the KXSC Pop-Up Player.\n\nKXSC Fest is the station's annual free, all ages, live music series which has hosted artists such as STRFKR, Flying Lotus, Nosaj Thing, Thee Oh Sees, The Growlers, dublab, Delicate Steve, Dan Deacon, Chelsea Wolfe, and White Fence, in the past. The event features live music, art, food trucks, and more.\n\nKXSC and USC Spectrum put on a monthly show featuring local Los Angeles artists. Past bands have included White Arrows and The Lovely Bad Things\n\nEvery Friday at 1pm down in Tommy's Place KXSC puts on a live show and radio broadcast showcasing some of Los Angeles's newest and upcoming talents. Some of the past shows have included bands such as Ariel Pink's Haunted Graffiti, Hanni El Khatib, and Bleached.\n\n"}
{"id": "27694313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27694313", "title": "List of exit examinations in the United States", "text": "List of exit examinations in the United States\n\nState Graduation/ Exit Exams in the United States are standardized tests in American Public schools in order for students to receive a high school diploma, according to that state's Secondary Education Curriculum.\n"}
{"id": "42065355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42065355", "title": "Mauritius Qualifications Authority", "text": "Mauritius Qualifications Authority\n\nThe Mauritius Qualifications Authority is the government organisation responsible for setting educational standards and accrediting qualifications.\n\nThe National Qualifications Framework (NQF) in Mauritius is the framework for setting educational standards of academic and vocational qualifications as well as for categorising qualifications by level and stage of education. The NQF is established and maintained by the Mauritius Qualifications Authority (MQA). The framework may be mapped to qualification frameworks of other countries. \n"}
{"id": "9725651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9725651", "title": "Michael Olmert", "text": "Michael Olmert\n\nMichael Olmert, born 1940 is a professor of English at the University of Maryland, College Park and a writer. He was born and raised in Washington D.C. His specialty is British Literature. He has a Ph.D. from Maryland in medieval English literature. He has written many shows and television movies for National Geographic and many articles for the Colonial Williamsburg Magazine.\n\nHe has written over 90 television documentaries, two plays, and two books. He has been awarded 3 Emmy Awards for his work on the Discovery Channel. In 2001, he received one for writing \"Allosaurus: A Walking With Dinosaurs Special\". In 2003, he won for \"Walking With Prehistoric Beasts\". His third award came in 2006 for \"Before the Dinosaurs\".\n\nOlmert's two plays are entitled \"Shakespeare and Lopez\" and \"Great Creating Nature\". The two books he has published are \"Milton's Teeth and Ovid's Umbrella\" (1996) and \"The Smithsonian Book of Books\" (1992).\nHe was inducted into the University of Maryland Hall of Fame in 2005.\n\nHe currently lives in Wittman, Maryland with his wife Meg, who is also a writer.\n\n"}
{"id": "34590918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34590918", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Algeria)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (Algeria)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (, ) is a government agency of Algeria. As of September 2013 Mohamed Mebarki is the minister. Its head office is in Algiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "35412070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35412070", "title": "Pakistan International School Buraydah", "text": "Pakistan International School Buraydah\n\nPakistan International School Buraydah (PISB) is one of the largest community-based schools in Saudi Arabia. It is located in Buraydah city of Al Gassim, Saudi Arabia. It is an International School, affiliated with the Federal Board of Intermediate & Secondary Education of Islamabad and Cambridge Education Board UK.\n\nThe Pakistan International School, Buraidah was founded in 1999 by the Pakistani community in the Al-Qassim region. The school is co-educational, though it is divided by gender and each division has its own head. It is supervised by its principal, who is supervised by an elected Management Committee and its chairman. Instruction is in English and its subject is national aspirations and Islamic ideology.\n\n\nThe school is known for its tremendous marks in FBISE. The school has a good performance record of A+ grades in Matriculation exams. In 2013 a girl crossed the mark of 1000 securing 1002/1050 marks in SSC. \nThe school is also popular for its result in Cambridge Examinations UK. Students have got marvellous result from this institution. The School currently ranks the highest marks scorer in FBISE in the whole overseas.\n\n"}
{"id": "42290456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42290456", "title": "Palace museum", "text": "Palace museum\n\nA palace museum refers a number of museums that are housed in former royal palaces. \n\nMany former royal palaces house museums; these include. \n\n"}
{"id": "6241951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6241951", "title": "Peacebuilding", "text": "Peacebuilding\n\nPeacebuilding is an intervention technique or method that is designed to prevent the start or resumption of violent conflict by creating a sustainable peace. Peacebuilding activities address the root causes or potential causes of violence, create a societal expectation for peaceful conflict resolution, and stabilize society politically and socioeconomically.\n\nThe activities included in peacebuilding vary depending on the situation and the agent of peacebuilding. Successful peacebuilding activities create an environment supportive of self-sustaining, durable peace; reconcile opponents; prevent conflict from restarting; integrate civil society; create rule of law mechanisms; and address underlying structural and societal issues. Researchers and practitioners also increasingly find that peacebuilding is most effective and durable when it relies upon local conceptions of peace and the underlying dynamics which foster or enable conflict.\n\nThe exact definition varies depending on the actor, with some definitions specifying what activities fall within the scope of peacebuilding or restricting peacebuilding to post-conflict interventions.\n\nEven if peacebuilding has remained a largely amorphous concept without clear guidelines or goals, common to all definitions is the agreement that improving human security is the central task of peacebuilding. In this sense, peacebuilding includes a wide range of efforts by diverse actors in government and civil society at the community, national, and international levels to address the root causes of violence and ensure civilians have freedom from fear (negative peace), freedom from want (positive peace) and freedom from humiliation before, during, and after violent conflict.  \n\nAlthough many of peacebuilding's aims overlap with those of peacemaking, peacekeeping and conflict resolution, it is a distinct idea. Peacemaking involves stopping an ongoing conflict, whereas peacebuilding happens before a conflict starts or once it ends. Peacekeeping prevents the resumption of fighting following a conflict; it does not address the underlying causes of violence or work to create societal change, as peacebuilding does. Peacekeeping also differs from peacebuilding in that it only occurs after conflict ends, not before it begins. Conflict resolution does not include some components of peacebuilding, such as state building and socioeconomic development.\n\nIn 2007, the UN Secretary-General's Policy Committee defined peacebuilding as follows: \"Peacebuilding involves a range of measures targeted to reduce the risk of lapsing or relapsing into conflict by strengthening national capacities at all levels for conflict management, and to lay the foundations for sustainable peace and sustainable development. Peacebuilding strategies must be coherent and tailored to specific needs of the country concerned, based on national ownership, and should comprise a carefully prioritized, sequenced, and therefore relatively narrow set of activities aimed at achieving the above objectives.\"\n\nThere are two broad approaches to peacebuilding.\n\nFirst, peacebuilding can refer to \"direct work\" that intentionally focuses on addressing the factors driving or mitigating conflict. When applying the term \"peacebuilding\" to this work, there is an explicit attempt by those designing and planning a peacebuilding effort to reduce structural or direct violence.\n\nSecond, the term peacebuilding can also refer to efforts to coordinate a multi-level, multisectoral strategy, including ensuring that there is funding and proper communication and coordination mechanisms between humanitarian assistance, development, governance, security, justice and other sectors that may not use the term \"peacebuilding\" to describe themselves. The concept is not one to impose on specific sectors. Rather some scholars use the term peacebuilding as an overarching concept useful for describing a range of interrelated efforts.\n\nWhile some use the term to refer to only post-conflict or post-war contexts, most use the term more broadly to refer to any stage of conflict. Before conflict becomes violent, preventive peacebuilding efforts, such as diplomatic, economic development, social, educational, health, legal and security sector reform programs, address potential sources of instability and violence. This is also termed conflict prevention. Peacebuilding efforts aim to manage, mitigate, resolve and transform central aspects of the conflict through official diplomacy; as well as through civil society peace processes and informal dialogue, negotiation, and mediation. Peacebuilding addresses economic, social and political root causes of violence and fosters reconciliation to prevent the return of structural and direct violence. Peacebuilding efforts aim to change beliefs, attitudes and behaviors to transform the short and long term dynamics between individuals and groups toward a more stable, peaceful coexistence. Peacebuilding is an approach to an entire set of interrelated efforts that support peace.\n\nIn the 1970s, Norwegian sociologist Johan Galtung first created the term peacebuilding through his promotion of systems that would create sustainable peace. Such systems needed to address the root causes of conflict and support local capacity for peace management and conflict resolution. Galtung's work emphasized a bottom-up approach that decentralized social and economic structures, amounting to a call for a societal shift from structures of coercion and violence to a culture of peace. American sociologist John Paul Lederach proposed a different concept of peacebuilding as engaging grassroots, local, NGO, international and other actors to create a sustainable peace process. He does not advocate the same degree of structural change as Galtung.\n\nPeacebuilding has since expanded to include many different dimensions, such as disarmament, demobilization and reintegration and rebuilding governmental, economic and civil society institutions. The concept was popularized in the international community through UN Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali's 1992 report An Agenda for Peace. The report defined post-conflict peacebuilding as an “action to identify and support structures which will tend to strengthen and solidify peace in order to avoid a relapse into conflict\" At the 2005 World Summit, the United Nations began creating a peacebuilding architecture based on Kofi Annan's proposals. The proposal called for three organizations: the UN Peacebuilding Commission, which was founded in 2005; the UN Peacebuilding Fund, founded in 2006; and the UN Peacebuilding Support Office, which was created in 2005. These three organizations enable the Secretary-General to coordinate the UN's peacebuilding efforts. National governments' interest in the topic has also increased due to fears that failed states serve as breeding grounds for conflict and extremism and thus threaten international security. Some states have begun to view peacebuilding as a way to demonstrate their relevance. However, peacebuilding activities continue to account for small percentages of states' budgets.\n\nThe Marshall Plan was a long-term postconflict peacebuilding intervention in Europe with which the United States aimed to rebuild the continent following the destruction of World War II. The Plan successfully promoted economic development in the areas it funded. More recently, peacebuilding has been implemented in postconflict situations in countries including Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Northern Ireland, Cyprus, and South Africa.\n\nThe activities included in peacebuilding vary depending on the situation and the agent of peacebuilding. Successful peacebuilding activities create an environment supportive of self-sustaining, durable peace; reconcile opponents; prevent conflict from restarting; integrate civil society; create rule of law mechanisms; and address underlying structural and societal issues. To accomplish these goals, peacebuilding must address functional structures, emotional conditions and social psychology, social stability, rule of law and ethics, and cultural sensitivities.\n\nPreconflict peacebuilding interventions aim to prevent the start of violent conflict. These strategies involve a variety of actors and sectors in order to transform the conflict. Even though the definition of peacebuilding includes preconflict interventions, in practice most peacebuilding interventions are postconflict. However, many peacebuilding scholars advocate an increased focus on preconflict peacebuilding in the future.\n\nThere are many different approaches to categorization of forms of peacebuilding among the peacebuilding field's many scholars.\n\nBarnett \"et al.\" divides postconflict peacebuilding into three dimensions: stabilizing the post-conflict zone, restoring state institutions, and dealing with social and economic issues. Activities within the first dimension reinforce state stability post-conflict and discourage former combatants from returning to war (disarmament, demobilization and reintegration, or DDR). Second dimension activities build state capacity to provide basic public goods and increase state legitimacy. Programs in the third dimension build a post-conflict society's ability to manage conflicts peacefully and promote socioeconomic development.\nA mixture of locally and internationally focused components is key to building a long-term sustainable peace. Mac Ginty says that while different \"indigenous\" communities utilize different conflict resolution techniques, most of them share the common characteristics described in the table below. Since indigenous peacebuilding practices arise from local communities, they are tailored to local context and culture in a way that generalized international peacebuilding approaches are not.\n\nThe United Nations participates in many aspects of peacebuilding, both through the peacebuilding architecture established in 2005-6 and through other agencies.\n\nThe World Bank and International Monetary Fund focus on the economic and financial aspects of peacebuilding. The World Bank assists in post-conflict reconstruction and recovery by helping rebuild society's socioeconomic framework. The International Monetary Fund deals with post-conflict recovery and peacebuilding by acting to restore assets and production levels.\n\nThe EU's European Commission describes its peacebuilding activities as conflict prevention and management, and rehabilitation and reconstruction. Conflict prevention and management entails stopping the imminent outbreak of violence and encouraging a broad peace process. Rehabilitation and reconstruction deals with rebuilding the local economy and institutional capacity. The European Commission Conflict Prevention and Peace building 2001-2010 was subjected to a major external evaluation conducted by Aide a la Decisions Economique (ADE) with the European Centre for Development Policy Management which was presented in 2011. The European External Action Service created in 2010 also has a specific Division of Conflict Prevention, Peacebuilding and Mediation.\n\nFrance\n\nGermany\n\nSwitzerland\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nUnited States\n\n\n\nWomen have traditionally played a limited role in peacebuilding processes even though they often bear the responsibility for providing for their families' basic needs in the aftermath of violent conflict. They are especially likely to be unrepresented or underrepresented in negotiations, political decision-making, upper-level policymaking and senior judicial positions. Many societies' patriarchal cultures prevent them from recognizing the role women can play in peacebuilding. However, many peacebuilding academics and the United Nations have recognized that women play a vital role in securing the three pillars of sustainable peace: economic recovery and reconciliation, social cohesion and development and political legitimacy, security and governance.\n\nAt the request of the Security Council, the Secretary-General issued a report on women's participation in peacebuilding in 2010. The report outlines the challenges women continue to face in participating in recovery and peacebuilding process and the negative impact this exclustion has on them and societies more broadly. To respond to these challenges, it advocates a comprehensive 7-point action plan covering the seven commitment areas: mediation; post-conflict planning; financing; civilian capacity; post-conflict governance; rule of law; and economic recovery. The action plan aims to facilitate progress on the women, peace and security agenda. The monitoring and implementation of this action plan is now being led jointly by the Peacebuilding Support Office and UN Women. In April 2011, the two organizations convened a workshop to ensure that women are included in future post-disaster and post-conflict planning documents. In the same year, the PBF selected seven gender-sensitive peacebuilding projects to receive $5 million in funding.\n\nPorter discusses the growing role of female leadership in countries prone to war and its impact on peacebuilding. When the book was written, seven countries prone to violent conflict had female heads of state. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf of Liberia and Michelle Bachelet of Chile were the first female heads of state from their respective countries and President Johnson-Sirleaf was the first female head of state in Africa. Both women utilized their gender to harness \"the power of maternal symbolism - the hope that a woman could best close wounds left on their societies by war and dictatorship.\"\n\nThe UN Peacebuilding Commission works in Burundi, Central African Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia and Sierra Leone and the UN Peacebuilding Fund funds projects in Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Côte d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guatemala, Haiti, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Liberia, Nepal, Niger, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, South Sudan, Timor-Leste and Uganda. Other UN organizations are working in Haiti (MINUSTAH), Lebanon, Afghanistan, Kosovo and Iraq.\n\nThe World Bank's International Development Association maintains the Trust Fund for East Timor in Timor-Leste. The TFET has assisted reconstruction, community empowerment and local governance in the country.\n\nAs part of the War in Afghanistan and the War in Iraq, the United States has invested $104 billion in reconstruction and relief efforts for the two countries. The Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund alone received $21 billion during FY2003 and FY2004. The money came from the United States Department of State, United States Agency for International Development and the United States Department of Defense and included funding for security, health, education, social welfare, governance, economic growth and humanitarian issues.\n\nCivil society organisations sometimes even are working on Peacebuilding themselves. This for example is the case in Kenya, according to the magazine D+C Development and Cooperation. After the election riots in Kenya in 2008, civil society organisations started programmes to avoid similar disasters in the future, for instance the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission (TJRC) and peace meetings organised by the church and they supported the National Cohesion and Integration Commission.\n\nIn 2010, the UNPBC conducted a review of its work with the first four countries on its agenda. An independent review by the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting also highlighted some of the PBC's early successes and challenges.\n\nOne comprehensive study finds that UN peacebuilding missions significantly increase the likelihood of democratization.\n\nJennifer Hazen contends there are two major debates relating to peacebuilding; the first centres on the role of the liberal democratic model in designing peacebuilding activities and measuring outcomes and the other one questions the role of third-party actors in peacebuliding.\n\nRegarding the debate about the role of the liberal democratic model in peacebuilding, one side contends that liberal democracy is a viable end goal for peacebuilding activities in itself but that the activities implemented to achieve it need to be revised; a rushed transition to democratic elections and market economy can undermine stability and elections held or economic legislation enacted are an inappropriate yardstick for success. Institutional change is necessary and transitions need to be incremental.\nAnother side contends that liberal democracy might be an insufficient or even inappropriate goal for peacebuilding efforts and that the focus must be on a social transformation to develop non-violent mechanisms of conflict resolution regardless of their form.\n\nWith regards to the role of third-party actors, David Chandler contends that external support creates dependency and undermines local and domestic politics, thus undermining autonomy and the capacity for self-governance and leaving governments weak and dependent on foreign assistance once the third-party actors depart. Since the logic of peacebuilding relies on building and strengthening institutions to alter societal beliefs and behaviour, success relies on the populations' endorsement of these institutions. Any third party attempt at institution building without genuine domestic support will result in hollow institutions - this can lead to a situation in which democratic institutions are established before domestic politics have developed in a liberal, democratic fashion, and an unstable polity.\n\nSéverine Autesserre offers a different approach, which focuses on the role of everyday practices in peacebuilding. She argue that the foreign peace builders' everyday practices, habits, and narratives strongly influence peacebuilding effectiveness. Autesserre stresses that international peacebuilders do not fully understand the conflicts they are trying to resolve because they rarely include local leaders in decision making, do not speak the local languages, and do not stay posted long enough to oversee effective change. This leaves decision makers out of touch with the key players in the peacebuilding process.\n\nJeremy Weinstein challenges the assumption that weak and failing states cannot rebuild themselves. He contends that through the process of autonomous recovery, international peacekeeping missions can be unnecessary for recovery because they assume that conflicts cannot be resolved by the country internally. He describes autonomous recovery as a \"process through which countries achieve a lasting peace, a systematic reduction in violence, and postwar political and economic development in the absence of international intervention\". Through peace and institutions generated by allowing war to run its natural course, autonomous recovery can be viewed as a success. He claims that war leads to peace by allowing the naturally stronger belligerent gain power, rather than a brokered peace deal that leaves two sides still capable of fighting. Secondly he claims that war provides a competition among providers of public goods until one can control a monopoly. He says that war can create an incentive to create institutions at all levels in order to consolidate power and extract resources from the citizens while also giving some power to the citizens depending upon how much the institutions rely on them for tax revenues.\n\nVirginia Fortna of Columbia University, however, holds that peacekeeping interventions actually do substantively matter following the end of a civil war. She claims that selection bias, where opponents point only to failed peacekeeping interventions and do not compare these missions to those situations where interventions do not occur, is partly to blame for criticisms. Fortna says that peacekeeping missions rarely go into easily resolvable situations while they are sent into tougher, more risky post war situations where missions are more likely to fail, and peace agreements are unlikely to be committed to. When all factors of a certain peacekeeping case study are properly considered, Fortna shows that peacekeeping missions do in fact help increase the chances of sustained peace after a civil war.\n\nBarnett \"et al.\" criticizes peacebuilding organizations for undertaking supply-driven rather than demand-driven peacebuilding; they provide the peacebuilding services in which their organization specializes, not necessarily those that the recipient most needs. In addition, he argues that many of their actions are based on organizations precedent rather than empirical analysis of which interventions are and are not effective. More recently, Ben Hillman has criticized international donor efforts to strengthen local governments in the wake of conflict. He argues that international donors typically do not have the knowledge, skills or resources to bring meaningful change to the way post-conflict societies are governed.\n\nMany academics argue that peacebuilding is a manifestation of liberal internationalism and therefore imposes Western values and practices onto other cultures. Mac Ginty states that although peacebuilding does not project all aspects of Western culture on to the recipient states, it does transmit some of them, including concepts like neoliberalism that the West requires recipients of aid to follow more closely than most Western countries do. Barnett also comments that the promotion of liberalization and democratization may undermine the peacebuilding process if security and stable institutions are not pursued concurrently. Richmond has shown how 'liberal peacebuilding' represents a political encounter that may produce a post-liberal form of peace. Local and international actors, norms, institutions and interests engage with each other in various different contexts, according to their respective power relations and their different conceptions of legitimate authority structures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47206484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47206484", "title": "Peter Koper", "text": "Peter Koper\n\nPeter Koper (born 1947) is an American journalist, professor, screenwriter, and producer. He numbers among the original Dreamlanders, the group of actors and artists who worked with independent film maker John Waters on his early films. He has written for the Associated Press, the \"Baltimore Sun\", \"American Film\", \"Rolling Stone\", and \"People\". He worked as a staff writer and producer for \"America's Most Wanted\", and has written television for the Discovery Channel, the Learning Channel, Paramount Television and Lorimar Television. Koper wrote and co-produced the cult movie \"Headless Body in Topless Bar\", and wrote the screenplay for \"Island of the Dead\". He has taught at the University of the District of Columbia, and Hofstra University. Currently, Koper is a contributing writer for the website Splice Today.\n\nKoper was born in 1947 in British-occupied Quakenbrück, Germany, to Polish resistance fighter Antoni Koper and Holocaust survivor Sophie Koper. In 1952, his family emigrated to the United States, living first in Pacific Grove, California. In 1958, the family relocated to Washington, D.C., where his father worked for the United States Information Agency.\n\nAt the age of sixteen, Koper attended the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, where he heard Joan Baez and Bob Dylan sing, and heard Martin Luther King, Jr. deliver \"I Have a Dream.\" Fifty years later, Koper recalled how the crowd had fallen silent as King began to speak, and how his words had made it seem like the struggle for civil rights could be won.\nIn 1965, Koper matriculated at Johns Hopkins University. There, he co-edited \"The News-Letter\". Author Richard Ben Cramer, a freshman when he began at \"The News-Letter\" in 1967, remembered Koper as a role model, one of the \"giants\" to whom he hoped he would someday \"measure up.\" While still a student, Koper also took his first job as a paid reporter, for the \"Baltimore Afro-American\". For \"the Afro,\" Koper covered such historic events as the demonstration to release the group of draft protesters known as the Catonsville Nine. Later that same day, Koper covered a political rally for segregationist presidential hopeful George Wallace inside the Baltimore Civic Center, and the subsequent spontaneous demonstration against Wallace outside. In the confusion, he was caught up in a group of a hundred and fifty demonstrators, whom police dispersed with dogs. Koper was arrested by police, in spite of presenting his press credentials, and charged with \"failing to obey a reasonable and lawful request of a police officer.\" A municipal court judge ultimately dismissed the charge. He was graduated from Johns Hopkins in 1969 with a B.A. in the humanities.\n\nWhile a student at Johns Hopkins University, Koper lived off-campus in the Fell's Point neighborhood of Baltimore. There, he first met filmmaker John Waters at the Hollywood Bakery, a communal studio and living space founded by Vincent Peranio, a Maryland Institute College of Art graduate who would serve as production designer for many Waters films. Koper recalls how, in 1968, shortly before Waters made \"Mondo Trasho\", the group later known as the Dreamlanders coalesced from three distinct groups: recent Maryland Institute College of Art alumni, many of whom lived at the Hollywood Bakery, the Johns Hopkins University literary set, including Koper himself, and Waters' friends from Baltimore's suburbs by way of Baltimore's gay scene, including Divine. \"We weren't hippies by any stretch of the imagination,\" Koper remembered. \"It was much more like...freaks is what we called ourselves, and it was sort of a coming together of all the misfits and malcontents and juvenile delinquents.\"\nKoper appeared alongside John Waters, Edith Massey and other Dreamlander's in \"Edith's Shopping Bag\", a 1973 documentary Koper helped to direct about Massey's Fells Point thrift store.\n\nAfter what one contemporary called \"several frantic years in Fells Point,\" Koper sought a quieter life, and purchased a twenty-six acre farm twenty-five miles north of Baltimore in Hampstead, Maryland. As Waters began production on \"Desperate Living\", he asked Koper if he could build the sets for the Mortville exteriors there. Koper agreed, on the condition that \"every trace of Mortville vanish when filming was completed.\" Production designer Vince Peranio was soon constructing a plywood castle and a slum of rubbish along Koper's otherwise bucolic farm lane. Production manager Robert Maier recalls the challenges of the location, including flooded dirt roads and limited septic facilities, acknowledging Koper's patience throughout the ordeal. Koper also portrayed one of Queen Carlotta's goons in the film.\n\nWhen Koper married designer Gina Consoli, then working for artist Andy Warhol at \"Interview\", Waters served as best man. Years later, Waters and Koper recounted for Warhol how Waters had hired an old school bus for Koper's bachelor's party, a tour of \"every low strip joint in Baltimore.\" In reply, Warhol asked, \"Are there any high strip joints?\" The couple were married at a pier rented from the city of Baltimore for fifty dollars. After the wedding, much of the party adjourned to Koper's farm in Hampstead for their annual summer croquet tournament.\n\nIn 1981, Peter and Gina Koper relocated to New York, where they purchased an unfinished industrial loft on Prince Street in Lower Manhattan, north of Little Italy and east of SoHo. Cultural commentator John Strausbaugh described the area at that time as \"a no-name wasteland of dark streets prowled by Bowery winos, heroin addicts and Mafia block capos.\" Gina told Strausbaugh they called it UhOh, \"...as in 'Uh oh we're out of bread.' There was no place to buy groceries. You could walk to some artist's place to buy a $200,000 painting, but you couldn't buy a quart of milk that wasn't sour.\"\n\nAfter his graduation from Johns Hopkins University, Koper covered the police beat for the Associated Press. More than twenty-five years later, he explained, \"I love low-life.\"\nKoper accepted his first academic position at the University of the District of Columbia in 1972, where he served as an assistant professor in the communications department until the fall of 1980. While there he defended the university's liberal open admissions policy. In 1973, he received a Master of Arts from American University.\n\nWhile teaching, Koper continued his journalism career. His 1978 article about the emerging recreational use of the dissociative drug phencyclidine, also known as PCP, was among the early reporting on the topic, and was later cited by scholars. In 1979, he began writing for the alternative weekly \"Baltimore City Paper\". The newspaper's co-founder Russ Smith remembers the day they met. \"Peter Koper was one of the first 'name' writers to wander into my office...to pitch a story.\" His debut story was a parody of the monthly magazine \"Baltimore\". Koper gained a reputation as the \"staff troublemaker,\" and Smith recalls several late-night adventures with Koper on the streets of Baltimore.\n\nBeginning in 1980, Koper worked for two years as a syndicated writer and foreign correspondent for Independent News Alliance/United Features Syndicate. For United Features, Koper traveled to Port-au-Prince, Haiti to shadow Aubelin Jolicoeur for a day, and reported on the underground free press from Warsaw during a period of martial law in Poland. \nIn 1982, when twenty-eight people killed themselves after they had reportedly watched the Russian roulette scenes in the film \"The Deerhunter\", Koper asked the question, \"Can movies kill?\" in an influential article published by the American Film Institute's \"American Film\".\n\nIn September 1980, Koper assumed an assistant professorship in the communications arts department at Hofstra University. One of his students, television writer and producer Dean Young, called Koper's classes memorable, and credited Koper, together with another Hofstra professor, with having had a \"profound\" influence on his own decision to become a television writer. Media advocate Jaci Clement also remembers Koper as one of her favorite professors at Hofstra, and his demanding classes as the \"best training to prepare me for working in a newsroom.\" Koper's influence didn't end at the classroom door either, according to Clement: \"...anywhere near the media center, he would track me down and ask what I had written that day. His rule was you had to write something, anything, every day. If you didn't, he'd follow you around, nipping at your heels like a Jack Russell Terrier until he made you miserable. It was simply easier to do the writing.\" Koper taught at Hofstra University until 1986. Koper has also served as an assistant adjunct professor in the film division at Columbia University.\n\nIn 2017, Koper became a regular contributor to the website Splice Today.\n\nIn 1981, Koper played an uncredited role in the production of John Waters' film \"Polyester\", arranging financing from other investors as well as investing his own money, with which he trusted Waters \"like an old penny-pinching aunt.\" He also helped Waters develop the concept of the scratch-and-sniff Odorama cards distributed to the audience.\n\nKoper received co-screenplay credit for his contributions to the Kathy Acker script on which director Bette Gordon based her 1983 arthouse film \"Variety\".\n\nOn April 15, 1983, Koper read Vincent Musetto's now famous headline in the \"New York Post\": \"Headless Body in Topless Bar.\" The headline inspired Koper to begin writing a screenplay loosely based on the facts of the story, with the headline as its title. Remembering the years that followed, Koper said, \"If my life were a newspaper, this would be splashed on page one: 'Screenwriter Haunted by Headless Headline.'\"\n\nDuring a four-year stint working full-time as a staff writer and producer for Fox Television's \"America's Most Wanted\" in the early 1990s, Koper first worked with director James Bruce, scripting \"a dozen offbeat vignettes about murder and mayhem.\" During that time, Koper never forgot the Musetto headline, shaping the story through retelling, and \"turning it into a story of his own.\" Koper wrote the story for the stage before developing the screenplay, and collaborated again with Bruce to realize it. In May 1995, \"Headless Body in Topless Bar\" appeared at the 48th Cannes Film Festival's Marché du Film.\n\n\"Headless Body in Topless Bar\" opened in New York and Los Angeles to mixed reviews. Stephen Holden of the New York Times credited the cast's \"fine ensemble acting\" with \"disguising the screenplay's long-windedness.\" Bob Strauss of the \"Los Angeles Daily News\" described the film as Paul Verhoeven's \"\"Showgirls\" without the budget,\" criticizing both the screenplay produced by \"Koper's tabloid ink-stained hands,\" and Bruce's \"uncertain direction.\" John Anderson of the Los Angeles Times compared the film to \"Lifeboat\" and \"No Exit\", \"but without a certain delicacy.\" David Stratton of \"Variety\" described the film as \"gripping,\" praised Bruce's \"fluid direction\" and predicted that \"prospects look brighter for video release.\"\n\n\"Headless Body in Topless Bar\" was well received in Germany, where it was remembered as one of two \"magnificent film highlights\" from the Oldenburg International Film Festival, then in its second year, and Koper was a touted guest of the festival in subsequent years. \"Körper ohne Kopf in Oben-ohne-Bar\", German dramatist Klaus Pohl's German translation of Koper's original script for the stage, premiered at the Deutsches Schauspielhaus in Hamburg, Germany on 11 November 1999. One reviewer found the play \"reminiscent\" of Quentin Tarantino films.\n\nIn 1996, Koper took up seasonal residence in the Long Island hamlet of Springs, New York, where he became interested in the story of the four Nazi saboteurs who disembarked from a U-boat on the morning of June 13, 1942, to land on Amagansett's Atlantic Avenue Beach, then boarded the Long Island Rail Road bound for Manhattan as part of a plan to attack the United States. A Coast Guardsman foiled the plot; upon encountering the invaders, he ran back to the Amagansett Coast Guard Station and raised the alarm, \"The Nazis have landed!\" Medienboard Berlin-Brandenburg commissioned Koper to write a screenplay about the Nazi misadventure, entitled \"Code Name: Pastorius\". Koper said he relied on the military trial transcripts housed at the National Archives to fully understand the story, and tried to capture the story's inherent dark humor. In 2011, the East Hampton Historical Society staged a reading of the screenplay at Mulford Farmhouse to raise funds to restore the Amagansett Coast Guard Station.\n\nA second Long Island landmark captured Koper's interest as well, inspiring another screenplay. By 1998, he was circling Hart Island, New York in a dinghy, imagining the \"modern ghost town\" and paupers' graveyard as the backdrop for \"Island of the Dead\", the horror film the island inspired him to write.\n\nKoper won the 2001 Santa Barbara International Film Festival's Peter Stark Screenwriting competition for his screenplay \"Joyful Noise\".\n\nIn 2004, the Medienboard Berlin-Brandenburg honored Koper with a second commission, this time to write a dark romantic comedy about capital punishment entitled \"The Executioner in Love.\" \n\nIn 2016, Koper wrote and co-produced the documentary \"Trump Tribe\", filmed at that year's Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio, and featuring seventeen voters who speak candidly about their zeal for the presidential candidacy of Donald J. Trump. The film uses the \"formal structure of anthropological study to divide Trump supporters into groups such as Myth Keepers, Tribal Women, Tribal Elders, and Tribal Youth.\"\n"}
{"id": "33990250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33990250", "title": "Phelps Architecture, Construction and Engineering High School", "text": "Phelps Architecture, Construction and Engineering High School\n\nPhelps Architecture, Construction and Engineering High School or Phelps A.C.E. High School is a public high school in the northeast quadrant of the District of Columbia, United States. \n\nThe school is often considered to be a prime example of the school investment program currently occurring in DC. Having fallen victim to time and neglect the school was rebuilt by an award-winning architect from several smaller buildings into its current form. Along with architecture, construction and engineering, other courses are also taught there, including vehicle maintenance/repair and operation of large vehicles such as cranes and diggers on state-of-the-art simulators. The school also has a small greenhouse where plants can be tended by the students. The buildings are powered by a variety of renewable energy sources (indicated by the color-coded pipes inside, each color denoting a different system). The students, as part of their course work, are trusted to monitor and maintain parts of this system.\n\n"}
{"id": "24540612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24540612", "title": "Play money", "text": "Play money\n\nPlay Money (PM) is noticeably fake bills or coins intended to be used use as toy currency, especially for classroom instruction or as a marker in board games such as Monopoly, rather than currency in a legitimate exchange market. Play money coins and bills are collected widely. They can be found made from metals, cardboard or, more frequently today, plastic. For card games such as poker, casino tokens are commonly used instead.\n\nMany online gambling sites offer \"play money\" games which can be played for freely-obtainable credits. These are usually offered alongside \"real money\" games. However, some sites also offer software that only offers play money games. Such software is usually downloadable from a parallel .net web address, which can then be advertised to the general public as a non-gambling website.\n\nIn 1997, the Winston Million (a cash prize award program on the NASCAR Winston Cup series) was won by Jeff Gordon at the Mountain Dew Southern 500. A Brinks truck led him around the victory lap, spewing bags of Winston play money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2180007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2180007", "title": "Radio calisthenics", "text": "Radio calisthenics\n\nIn Japan, radio calisthenics are broadcast to music on public NHK radio early in the morning. Rajio taisō were introduced to Japan in 1928 as a commemoration of the coronation of Emperor Hirohito. The idea for radio broadcast calisthenics came from the US, where during the 1920s the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. sponsored 15-minute radio calisthenics in major cities in the US. Visiting employees of the Japanese postal insurance division brought samples of the exercises from the US back to Japan. The exercises were widely used to improve the health of Japanese soldiers both at home and abroad during the 1930s and 1940s. The exercises were introduced to several other pacific nations, including Taiwan, Hong Kong and Indonesia during Japan's colonization period.\n\nAfter Japan's defeat in 1945, the broadcasts were banned by the occupying powers as being too militaristic in nature. \n\nAfter several rewrites to the exercise routine, it was reintroduced by NHK radio in 1951 with the support of the education ministry, health ministry, the Japan Gymnastic Association and the Japan Recreation Association.\n\nChina also has such calisthenics. They have been mandatory since 2011. Originally they were introduced by Mao Zedong in 1951 but the broadcasts now are run by the General Administration of Sport China.\n\nRadio taisō is still used at schools as a warm up for physical education classes, during sports day activities, and by some companies as a way of building morale and a sense of group unity, as well as to raise energy levels and encourage good health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5988775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5988775", "title": "Rinehart (Harvard)", "text": "Rinehart (Harvard)\n\nThe cry of Rinehart! (more fully Oh, R-i-i-i-n-e-HART!) was a meme of Harvard University student and alumni culture in the early decades of the 20th century.\n\nThe cry references an unknown undergraduate's call, from ground to dormitory window, for John Bryce Gordon Rinehart (1875-1954; Harvard class of 1900). His cry of \"Oh, R-i-i-i-n-e-HART!\" drifting across Harvard Yard was inexplicably and spontaneously taken up by hundreds of students in the Yard and at open windows of surrounding dormitories. This phenomenon first occurred on June 11, 1900, and for the next forty years cries of \"Oh, R-i-i-i-n-e-HART!\" (described as \"Harvard's rebel yell\") could be heard at random times and around the world, wherever Harvard men traveled or congregated, sometimes signalling the start of merry revelry.\n\nJohn Barrymore mentioned the \"Rinehart!\" cry in the 1939 film \"The Great Man Votes\". The call was included by journalist George Frazier in his 1932 song \"Harvard Blues\" (music by Tab Smith), recorded in 1941 by Count Basie and included on the compilation \"The Count Basie Story, Disc 3 - Harvard Blues\" (2001, Proper Records). \nThomas Pynchon describes the cry in \"Against the Day\":\nVarious legends grew up around the call; for instance, a Harvard man in Africa who was about to be kidnapped by some Arabs supposedly screamed \"Rinehart!\" and was rescued because there happened to be another Harvard man nearby in the French Foreign Legion.\n\nIt is now considered established that the original target of the call was James Bryce Gordon Rinehart (Harvard 1900). A contemporary piece in the \"Harvard Crimson\" adds details:\nAs this origin faded from memory, while the cry itself remained current, various false origin stories were circulated. One had Mr Rinehart hiring other students to call his name, to make him appear more popular. These origin stories were collected, and a new one suggested, by Gordon Allport in a prize-winning undergraduate essay.\n"}
{"id": "56451811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56451811", "title": "Robert Jackson (educator)", "text": "Robert Jackson (educator)\n\nRobert Mason David \"Bob\" Jackson (born 11 June 1945) is a British educator and educational researcher working in the fields of religious and intercultural education in the UK and internationally, and in educational policy at the European level. He has authored several influential books on an inclusive form of religious education in which young people learn together about religious and world view diversity, and has contributed to policy development on the religious dimension of intercultural education for the Council of Europe. He has written and presented educational broadcasts for BBC Education, and has edited both professional and academic journals. His work has been influential in a variety of countries beyond Europe. Away from academic work, he is a jazz musician and poet.\n\nHe was born in Ilkeston, Derbyshire in 1945. He attended Hallcroft school, then studied Theology at St David’s College, Lampeter (1963–1966), and for a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE) at the University of Cambridge (1966–67), where he was a member of Fitzwilliam College, and a member of the Footlights Dramatic Club. He completed an MA degree in Philosophy in 1975, and PhD in Arts Education in 1994 at the University of Warwick.\n\nHe taught at Nottingham High School 1967–1971, and at Coventry College of Education 1972–78, joining the Department of Arts Education (later Institute of Education, and then the Centre for Education Studies) at the University of Warwick in April 1978, becoming Professor of Religions and Education in 1995. He held Visiting Fellowships in Religions and Education at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, in Autumn 1974 and Spring 1978, the first leading to the publication of \"Perspectives on World Religions\", and the second to a series of BBC Education broadcasts on rites of passage experienced by members of religious communities in Britain.\n\nHe was awarded a DLitt degree by the University of Wales, Lampeter in 2006 for a selection of his published work.\n\nInfluenced by meeting families of South Asian background in Coventry from 1972, Jackson began ethnographic research on Hindu families in Britain. He was joined in this work by Eleanor Nesbitt, and a report of their research was published in 1993. Following the formation of the Institute of Education at the University of Warwick in 1994, Jackson established and became Director of the Warwick Religions and Education Research Unit (WRERU) until his retirement from full-time work in 2012. He remains an active member of WRERU. Jackson led WRERU’s contribution to the REDCo (Religion, Education, Dialogue, Conflict) Project, a European research project on religious education involving researchers, teachers and students from eight countries, funded by the European Commission. WRERU has continued with a range of externally funded studies with funding from sources including the UK Research Councils and charitable bodies.\n\nJackson was invited to become a member of the Steering Committee of ‘Religion and Society’ (2007–2012), an extensive UK research programme, taking a particular interest in projects concerned with education and youth, leading to the publication of a special issue of \"the Journal of Beliefs and Values\" in 2012, and a book co-edited with Elisabeth Arweck.\n\nJackson’s ideas have been developed in various research contexts by others, including quantitative and qualitative studies, as well as action research studies undertaken by practitioners. Jackson’s ideas have also been discussed with a view to adapting them to other national contexts, such as the USA.\n\nJackson has continued to argue that an open and inclusive study of religions and other worldviews in state funded schools is intrinsic to a broadly based liberal education, while also contributing instrumentally to the personal development of students and to social aims, such as fostering appreciation for the human rights principle freedom of religion and belief.\n\nDrawing on ideas and methods from his ethnographic studies, Jackson developed the interpretive approach to religious education, which examines the dynamic relationship between individuals, the various kinds of groups they relate to, and wider religious traditions. It was influenced by work in recent social anthropology, hermeneutics, religious studies, intercultural studies and social psychology, and deals with issues of representing and interpreting religions fairly and accurately. It also includes a reflexive dimension in which the learner or researcher reflects on the implications of new learning for their own personal development. Professor John M. Hull described \"Religious Education: An Interpretive Approach\" as «a major contribution to the academic and professional study of religious education.»\n\nIn his work on religious education and plurality, Jackson argues that the educational potential of the study of religion in state-funded schools has been underestimated; state schools should not be thought of as places of secular education, but as providing a pluralist context for educational development, and an environment encouraging dialogue. In reviewing \"Rethinking Religious Education and Plurality\", John M. Hull wrote: «Jackson’s masterly work not only helps us to rethink religious education; it shows its wider educational significance and points to its exciting future».\n\nJackson’s latest book – \"Religious Education for Plural Societies\" – is a compilation of selected writings from across his career organised into sections on empirical research; the interpretive approach to religious education; religious education and plurality; and human rights and international policy development. A substantial general introduction is provided, plus introductions for each section.\n\nJackson’s work on families of religious minorities attracted the attention of BBC Education producers Ralph Rolls and Geoffrey Marshall-Taylor, and they invited him to make radio and radiovision programmes for school students of various ages, using actuality material and interviews.\n\nJackson edited \"Resource\", which became the journal of the National Association for Teachers of Religious Education, from 1978 to 1996. In 1996, he succeeded John Hull as Editor of the \"British Journal of Religious Education\", which he continued to do until 2011. Jackson extended Hull’s policy of enhancing the academic status of the journal, including increasing its international profile, setting up editorial and international advisory boards, taking the journal to a commercial publisher, and gaining its inclusion in the Thomson Reuter citation index.\n\nJackson serves on the editorial boards of a range of European and international journals. He is co-editor of ‘Religious Diversity and Education in Europe’ an extensive book series published in Germany by Waxmann, and is a contributing editor to the University of Vienna’s book series on Religious Education at Schools in Europe, and to Springer’s \"International Handbooks on Religion and Education\".\n\nJackson has been involved with the Council of Europe’s work on policy for religion and education since it first included this topic in 2002. He participated in a project on the Religious dimension of intercultural education which produced publications in 2004 and 2007. He co-organised the first Council of Europe «Exchange» between leaders of faith communities and humanist associations in Europe in Strasbourg in April 2008, and was part of the team which drafted the Recommendation by the Committee of Ministers on teaching about religions and non-religious convictions, published in 2008. In 2006 he conducted a study for the Council of Europe exploring the feasibility of a European educational centre, including studies of religious diversity. The recommendation to initiate an interdisciplinary centre, including intercultural, human rights and citizenship education, with cross-cutting subjects such as religion and history, was taken up by the Norwegian Government and the Council of Europe, and the European Wergeland Centre opened in Oslo in 2009. Jackson held a Visiting Professorship at Oslo University College (2009–2012) in order to take on the role of Special Adviser on religious diversity and education at the European Wergeland Centre. He continues in the role of Expert Adviser at the Council of Europe and the European Wergeland Centre. From 2011 to 2014 he was vice-chair of a joint Council of Europe and European Wergeland Centre committee given the task of disseminating the 2008 Council of Europe Ministerial recommendation. Jackson wrote the book \"Signposts\" which developed from this work, on behalf of the joint committee. \"Signposts\" was published in English in 2014 and has been translated into twelve European languages as well as Arabic. He is currently a Visiting Professor in the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences Education at Stockholm University, Sweden.\n\nJackson also contributed to the \"Toledo Guiding Principles on Teaching about Religions and Beliefs in Public Schools\", published by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe.\n\nBeyond his work in Europe, Jackson has contributed to discussions on the place of the study of religions in education in countries including the USA, Canada, Japan, South Africa, and Australia.\n\nIn 1990 Jackson gained an award from the Economic and Social Research Council, which supported the Religious Education and Community Project, studying children from a range of religious backgrounds in two English cities.\n\nIn 2010, Jackson was elected Academician (later Fellow) of the Academy of Social Sciences. He was awarded Life Membership of the Association of University Lecturers in Religious Education in July 2013.\nIn November 2013, he became the 12th recipient of the William Rainey Harper Award from the Religious Education Association of the USA and Canada, joining the ranks of Paulo Freire, Margaret Mead and Marshall McLuhan. The award is presented to ‘outstanding leaders whose work in other fields has had profound impact upon religious education’.\nA group of Jackson’s former doctoral students produced a special issue of the American journal \"Religion & Education\" (vol 40, no. 1) and a Routledge book in his honour, both published in 2013.\n\nIn March 2017, Jackson was awarded an honorary doctorate (Doc h.c.) By the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) for his contribution to religious and intercultural education in Norway and internationally, including his work for the Council of Europe. In October 2017, he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Norwegian School of Theology (MF) in Oslo for his contributions to education in Norway and internationally.\n\nJackson has been a jazz musician throughout his career, regarding the music as a complement to his academic pursuits, comparing the eclectic nature and creative development of the interpretive approach to jazz music. His band, Spicy Jazz, has worked since the 1980s, mainly in the English Midlands. Jackson proposed trumpet player, bandleader, broadcaster and writer, Humphrey Lyttelton for an honorary doctorate at the University of Warwick, which was awarded in 1987. Lyttelton appeared as a guest with Spicy Jazz and wrote the sleeve note for their recording, \"Coming of Age\". Following Humphrey Lyttelton’s death in 2008, Jackson accepted an invitation to become patron of the Humph Trust. Jackson has also played Jazz in Sweden and in Norway, including playing with Bjørn Alterhaug, Vigleik Storaas and other leading Norwegian jazz musicians.\n\nA further creative interest is poetry, and a selection of Jackson’s poems, together with poems by Dermot Killingley, is published in \"Narrowboat Music\". The book includes a song lyric dedicated to UK jazz trombonist Roy Williams, and performed by a trio from Spicy Jazz.\n\n"}
{"id": "35925684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35925684", "title": "Skillstreaming", "text": "Skillstreaming\n\nSkillstreaming is a social skills training method introduced by Dr. Arnold P. Goldstein in 1973. It has been widely used in the United States, as well as other countries, in schools, agencies, and institutions serving children and youth. The Skillstreaming programs for early childhood, elementary age, and adolescence are published by the Research Press Publishing Company of Champaign, Illinois.\n\nBehavior theorists, including Albert Bandura described the processes of modeling, behavioral rehearsal, and reinforcement which are the basis of the Skillstreaming approach. However, rather than emphasizing operant procedures such as prompting and shaping of behaviors, Skillstreaming takes a more psychoeducational approach, viewing the individual as a person in need of help in the form of skills training. The method provides active and deliberate learning of desirable behaviors to replace less productive behaviors.\n\nIn 1950s and 1960s, the main therapeutic approaches for dealing with inappropriate behavior in individuals were (psychodynamic, nondirective, and behavior modification). These three types of therapy focused on helping individuals to express their pre-existing effective, satisfying, or healthy behaviors.\n\nAfter the deinstitutionalization movement of the 1960s resulted in the discharge of large numbers of people from mental health and other institutions into local communities, Arnold P. Goldstein developed Structured Learning Therapy, the precursor to Skillstreaming, as a practical method of behavioral training. Structured learning methods deal with aggression, withdrawal, and other nonproductive actions as learned behaviors that can be changed by teaching new, alternative skills.\n\nDuring this time, progressive education and character education, supported the teaching of values, morality, emotional functioning and values clarification, moral education, and affective education\n\nAs well as filling its initial purpose as an intervention for low-income adults deficient in social skills, Skillstreaming has been used with other populations. In the 1980s, Dr. Goldstein’s skills training program, by that time known as Skillstreaming, was adapted to modify aggression and other problematic behaviors in adolescents,\n\nEvaluative research studies support the efficacy of Skillstreaming and have suggested means for altering and improving its procedures and materials.\n\nBetween 1984 and 2012, Goldstein and Ellen McGinnis published a series of books describing the Skillstreaming program, organized into three age groups: early childhood, elementary and adolescent. These volumes integrate the research findings on program efficacy with training recommendations provided by teachers, administrators, youth care workers, and other practitioners who have used Skillstreaming to teach social skills over the years.\n\n"}
{"id": "5667445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5667445", "title": "Spanish ship Juan Sebastián Elcano", "text": "Spanish ship Juan Sebastián Elcano\n\nJuan Sebastián de Elcano is a training ship for the Royal Spanish Navy. It is a four-masted topsail, steel-hulled barquentine (schooner barque). At long, it is the third-largest tall ship in the world, and is the sailing vessel that has sailed the furthest, covering more than in its history.\n\nIt is named after Spanish explorer Juan Sebastián Elcano, captain of Ferdinand Magellan's last exploratory fleet and the man who completed the first circumnavigation of the world. The ship also carries the Elcano coat of arms, which was granted to the family by Emperor Charles I following Elcano's return in 1522 from Magellan's global expedition. The coat of arms is a terraqueous globe with the motto \"Primus Circumdedisti Me\" (meaning: \"First to circumnavigate me\").\n\n'Juan Sebastián de Elcano' was built in 1927 in Cadiz, Spain, and its hull was designed by the naval architect Mr C E Nicholson of Camper and Nicholsons Ltd of Southampton. Constructed by Echevarrieta y Larrinaga shipyard in Cadiz. After the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic in April 1931 the ship became part of the Spanish Republican Navy.\n\nIn 1933 under Commander Salvador Moreno Fernández's order, a series of improvements were made to the ship and the bronze plate with the Latin language inscription \"Tu Primus Circumdedisti Me\" was placed near the prow. At the time of the coup of July 1936 \"Juan Sebastián Elcano\" was at Ferrol, a harbor that had been taken by the Nationalist faction. \nIts plans were used twenty-five years later to construct its Chilean sail training vessel sister ship \"Esmeralda\" in 1952-1954.\n\nIts first voyage was sea testing between April and July that year from Cádiz to Malaga, with King Alfonso XIII on board as a passenger, and then on to Sevilla, Las Palmas, Tenerife, San Sebastián, Cádiz, São Vicente, Cape Verde, Montevideo, Buenos Aires, Cape Town, Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Suva, San Francisco, California, Balboa, Panama, Havana, New York City, Cádiz.\n\nCommanders that have been in charge of \"Juan Sebastián Elcano\" for crossings and instruction.\n\n"}
{"id": "52687759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52687759", "title": "St. Peter's Kubatana", "text": "St. Peter's Kubatana\n\nSt. Peter's Kubatana in Glen Norah, Zimbabwe, includes both a secondary school and technical vocational training. It is situated in a high-density suburb of Harare, and was founded by the Society of Jesus in 1963.\n\nIn 1963 the Jesuit parish in the present Mbare area of Harare opened St. Peter’s Community Secondary School (SPCSS) for students engulfed in poverty. At the time secondary schools were provided for only the top 12% of primary leavers. SPCSS enrolled 80 students out of 250 applicants, for a two-year course leading to the External Junior Certificate. It used the St. Peter’s Primary School classrooms after the primary students finished their day.\n\nA training school for social workers, the School of Social Service, began operations in the Jesuit parish in the mid-1960s. It later became the School of Social Work (SSW), a degree-awarding department of the University of Zimbabwe. The first premises of SSW were the defunct Morgan High School, and SPCSS was for a time accommodated there also. But this was found to be against the apartheid policy of the government, since SSW was mixed racial and SPCSS all-black. A closed primary school facility in the new Kambazuma township was made available for SPCSS. In the mid-1960s local volunteers were joined by volunteers from Stonyhurst College in England, who were taking a year off for service before going to the university, to work in these Jesuit schools. In 1968 technical courses were introduced to SPCSS by a Stonyhurst engineering student, and this focus has persisted in the technical school. The high school was to grow to 1051 students and cover through sixth-form.\n\nIn the 1970s Kambuzuma’s population was growing and the primary school buildings were reclaimed for their original purpose. The secondary school was resituated on a 10-hectare site in Glen Norah, Harare, and SPCSS took its present name St. Peter’s Kubatana, Kubatana being a Shona word encompassing notions of mutual help and co-operation. Facilities include an administration block and Jesuit residence. The high school has, by one account, been ranked as fourth best high school in Harare.\n\nSt. Peters Mbare parish helps support orphaned and vulnerable children. A scholarship fund has been set up to subsidize the fees for 85 primary and secondary school children.\n\nSt. Peter's Kubatana Training Centre in Highfield, Harare, has launched an arts and culture programme and helps students to pursue arts as a career. It also assists local artists with further training and offers space for work and for exhibitions. The technical school at St. Peter’s Kubatanahas has expanded to include welding, sewing, motor mechanics, automobile and mechanical engineering, construction and civil engineering, and woodworking. Technical school graduates have risen to 120 in a year. St. Peter's is also a part of a UN effort to strengthen vocational and technical education in Zimbabwe.\n\nStudents from St Peter's won the Shoko Hub Unconference category of best idea on creative campaigns to increase citizen engagement through use of a social platform to act as the voice for school students in telling their own stories. The conference encourages creativity, innovation, and action and includes speakers from around Africa and from Europe on topics like new media, writing for the web, increasing social engagement, and the creative economy. The facebook page IoT Makerspace St-Peters Mbare Internet-Society has been maintained by local students who were the beneficiaries of St. Peter's school of social services.\n\nThe school boasts the \"best known\" marimba band in Zimbabwe. Dancers from the school have attracted international attention. Students from the school were also privileged to represent Zimbabwe at an African climate change conference in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "20360971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20360971", "title": "Stephen H. Gloucester", "text": "Stephen H. Gloucester\n\nStephen Gloucester (1802 – 1850) was among the primary organizers for the Underground Railroad in Philadelphia and the founder of The First African Presbyterian Church at Girard Avenue and 42nd Street in Philadelphia, which had 123 members by 1811.\n\nGloucester was one of the four sons of John Gloucester. Stephen was born a slave in Tennessee, his father paid $400 for Stephen's freedom when he was 12 years of age.\n\nBetween 1820 and 1840, Reverend Gloucester ran a school for black children and established a reading room for black adults.\nHe organized the Leavitt Anti-Slavery Society and encouraged black churches to start similar groups, and was one of eight black pastors who founded the American and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society.\nIn 1838, he became a co-publisher and co-proprietor of the Colored American.\nHe became the pastor of the Second African Presbyterian after its previous pastor died.\nA mob destroyed Second African Presbyterian in the 1842 race riots.\n\nIn 1844, Gloucester became the founding pastor at Lombard Street Central Presbyterian Church - a church that was formed after the congregation of Second Presbyterian split into two factions.\nThis schism with other activists led Gloucester to concentrate on his church, which moved into the white, Greek Revival-style building on the 800 block of Lombard upon its completion in 1848.\nThe church eventually dropped the \"street\" in its name and became known as Lombard Central Presbyterian.\n\nFrederick Douglass is said to have called Gloucester \"one of the vilest traitors to his race that ever lived.\"\n\nIn 1850, while on a church-related trip to Reading, Gloucester died of pneumonia. Gloucester's congregation buried him in a brick vault in the front of the building he had raised money to construct.\n\nThere they placed a marble obelisk, inscribed:\n\nIn 1880, Ann Gloucester died, and her remains were placed with her husband in the brick vault.\n\nAt some point since an 1895 photograph was taken, the large obelisk that marked the Gloucesters' grave went missing.\n\nIn 1939, the congregation outgrew their original church, which is on the National Register of Historic Places, and moved to a historic former Quaker meeting house on Powelton Avenue in West Philadelphia.\n\nIn the summer of 2008, a couple who had bought the property was in the process of converting the worn-out structure into a luxury home they hope to sell for $4.95 million. Workers hit a piece of slate which turned out to be his brick tomb.\nOn Friday November 21, 2008, his remains were found.\nMooney, an archeologist, said in an email Saturday, November 22, 2008, that all evidence at the site backs up the documentary evidence that the vault contained the remains of the Gloucesters and Winrow. Forensic details are forthcoming.\n"}
{"id": "57232858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57232858", "title": "The Inner World of Aphasia", "text": "The Inner World of Aphasia\n\nThe Inner World of Aphasia is a 1968 medical training film by co-directors Edward Feil and Naomi Feil of Edward Feil Productions. It portrays patients suffering from aphasia and follows their experiences through their recoveries. Notable for its innovative artistic direction and empathetic approach to patients with aphasia, the film was added to the National Film Registry in 2015.\n\nThe film follows Marge Nelson (portrayed by Naomi Feil), a nurse who treats patients suffering from aphasia. Marge is overworked and unsympathetic towards her patients, experiencing frustration at their behavior and apparent inability to communicate.\n\nUpon having an accident and suffering brain damage, Marge herself experiences aphasia and undergoes treatment at the same hospital where she previously worked. While struggling to deal with the emotions around her trauma and new issues with processing information and communicating, Marge also discovers a startling lack of empathy from hospital staff and therapists treating her.\n\nMarge finds a new friend in a second patient who is suffering from aphasia. The film shows us that, like Marge, this second patient has also experienced a lack of empathy from others, except in his case it is his family members who are unable to understand his illness.\n\nThrough this new friendship and her own determination, Marge changes the emotional direction of her life and takes the first steps towards her recovery.\n\n\"The Inner World of Aphasia\" was praised by contemporary sources for its attention to patient experience, particularly for drawing attention to the ways in which patients treated for aphasia in the 1960s were dehumanized by hospital staff and family members.\n\nCompared to other media portrayals of aphasia the time, \"The Inner World of\" \"Aphasia\" was unique for its focus on portraying \"the complex subjective feel of what it is like to be an aphasic.\" Its use of flashback, optical distortions, and audio editing techniques were noted by medical professionals as accurately conveying the experience of a person suffering from aphasia (such as hemiplegia and hemianopsia).\n\nIn 1968, \"The Inner World of Aphasia\" received the Golden Eagle from The Council on International Non-Theatrical Events (CINE), the organization's highest honor.\n\nIn 1969, \"The American Journal of Nursing\" included \"The Inner World of Aphasia\" on its list of films screened by the American Nurses Association / National League of Nurses Film Committee and recommended for screening to nurses and nursing students.\n\nIn 2015, \"The Inner World of Aphasia\" was added to the National Film Registry, a selection of films noted as worthy of preservation by the United States National Film Preservation Board.\n"}
{"id": "51395212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51395212", "title": "Tooth Invaders", "text": "Tooth Invaders\n\nTooth Invaders is a video game released by Commodore International for its VIC-20 home computer in 1981 and later for the C64 in 1982. It was developed in association with Camelot Marketing Group in order to positively reinforce the pros of brushing, flossing, and healthy dental care. Seen as a fun way to teach children the importance of dental care, players fight as \"Plaqueman\" to fight plaque using a toothbrush and dental floss. It was also made in association with the American Dental Association, released during National Dental Month, and supported by dentists. \n\nUsing a toothbrush and dental floss, the player must keep the teeth clean while avoiding contact with the Plaque Germ, known as \"D.K\". If D.K. comes into contact with the player, this will result in loss of one life. The brush needs tooth paste to work so the player must apply tooth paste. Floss is used for the space between teeth. If the teeth aren't cleaned properly and start to decay a warning bell sounds. Eventually the tooth will disappear, reflecting tooth loss. If a tooth is completely cleaned, a brief musical score will play and the teeth will change colors repeatedly. If the player comes into contact with D.K. at this time, the Plaque Germ will disappear for a time. Losing all lives or having four teeth lost will end the game.\n\n\"Ready: A Commodore 64 Retrospective\" described it as a \"simple game\", a \"standout\" of Commodore's first generation of educational software, and a \"pioneer in the serious games and games for health fields\". However, the book also noted that the game aged relatively quickly due to the rapid improvement in game quality in the following years. \"Microcomputing\" considered the game an \"excellent\" example of how computer software could be used educationally to create behavioural change. Games Village wrote that behind the patently idiotic facade, it instead proves to be a balanced and enjoyable puzzle game.\n\nThe game was included in the \"Open Wide! Tooth Toys That Made Us Smile\" exhibit at the National Museum of Dentistry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44117210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44117210", "title": "University of Ghana Medical School", "text": "University of Ghana Medical School\n\nThe University of Ghana Medical School also UGMS is the medical school of Ghana's first public research institution, the University of Ghana. It is currently located at the Korle Bu Teaching Hospital in Accra. The medical school was first planned in 1919, but took its first students in 1962.\n\nThe plan to set up a medical school on the Gold Coast was drawn up after the establishment of the Korle Bu Hospital in 1919 by the British Governor at the time, Sir Frederick Gordon Guggisberg. The idea was abandoned after Guggisberg left office. There was renewed interest in this venture in 1951. At the behest of the Gold Coast colonial administration and the University College of the Gold Coast, a technical team from the University of London visited the Gold Coast to assess the scheme and specifications for staffing and facilities that would be required fully operationalise a medical school. In 1952, a government-approved commission recommended the postponement of the establishment of medical school indefinitely. In 1955, the issue was revisited and the colonial government invited the University College of the Gold Coast and the Kumasi College of Technology to examine the options to start a medical school. It was decided medical courses would be introduced in a step-by-step fashion, as originally espoused by the University of London delegation in 1951. In 1956, the University Council Committee under the leadership of the institution’s first principal, David Balme, was formed to suggest other avenues for founding the school. The recommendations of this committee included an annual enrollment of 20 to 25 students, establishment of four pre-clinical departments at the University College of the Gold Coast, Legon and the upgrade of the Korle Bu Hospital to a teaching hospital with its autonomous management board. By 1960, the year Ghana became a republic, there was still no pathway for implementation as Korle Bu was not equipped for clinical training and funds were unavailable for its expansion. The Nkrumah government sought technical and financial assistance from the Kennedy administration. The US government appointed a team led by physician, Paul Connerlly to review all previous assessments. This team suggested the establishment of a \"National Medical and Health Training Centre\" under which the medical school would function. The government accepted these recommendations. In 1962, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) recommended that the National Medical and Health Training Centre should have these subsidiaries: a medical school, a school of nursing; a dental school; a school of medical technology; a post graduate school; a research facilities centre.\n\nIt was planned that the medical school would be financially independent with its own council. However, the University of Ghana would be its parent institution and would award its medical degrees. The suggested curriculum would be American-based even though the Ghanaian education was modelled on the British university system. To streamline these differences, admitted sixth formers were to go through a two-year pre-medical science course prior to the actual medical training. In October 1962, the foundation class of 51 premedical students were admitted to the University of Ghana. Within a year of the programme, the American Dean informed the government that he was unable to find lecturers in the basic sciences. In February 1964, Ghana’s first president decided to wholly rely on domestic sources of funding and manpower to establish the full medical school. A study tour by Alexander Kwapong, Charles Odamtten Easmon and E. A. Badoe at then newly established University of Lagos and University of Ibadan medical schools, was used as a basis for the feasibility studies.\n\nIn October 1964, 41 students enrolled in the preclinical training with a group of indigenous doctors being their lecturers. Most courses were drawn from gross anatomy and histology, taught by J.K.M Quartey and F. N. L. Engmann. Surgeons and pathologists at government hospitals in Accra taught on an adjunct basis. Later, the department of physiology was started by H. H. Philips while biochemistry was started by B. Y. A. Andoh as part of the curriculum that included basic sciences. Teaching in paraclinical departments commenced in April 1966 while those in clinical departments started in April 1967. The professoriate was almost entirely Ghanaian. The pioneering class of 39 medical students graduated in June 1969. Expatriate lecturers were recruited at the end of the first year. By the end of 1968, the Ghana medical school had become a semi-autonomous school under the University of Ghana with functions identical to other faculties of the university. It assumed a new name, the \"University of Ghana Medical School\" and its own Executive Council and School Board were assembled. The school held landmark events to celebrate and its silver jubilee in 1987 and fortieth anniversary in 2002.\n\nThe self-accounting administration was subordinate to both the board and the executive council. As a university faculty, a Dean provided academic and administrative leadership, assisted by a Vice Dean and an Executive Secretary. The first Executive Secretary of the medical school was C. K. Gbeho and Deborah Boafoh was the first Administrative Secretary. The medical school now operates through seventeen departments, namely departments of anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, chemical pathology, haematology, mircobiology, pathology, pharmacology, anaesthesia, paediatrics, community health, medicine and therapeutics, obstetrics and gynaecology, psychiatry, radiology and surgery. Four out every five faculty at the school are alumni.\n\nThe school had eight department in its early years. Paraclinical Departments and department heads consisted of the following:\n\nThe medical school’s mission focuses on learning, research and knowledge dissemination in the national and global context. Specifically, the college aims to train:\n\n\nThe school curriculum has gone through periodic reviews in line with national health needs and contemporary trends in medical education. In 1992, a biomedical science bachelor’s degree was introduced to be conferred at the end of the para-clinical sciences course and is now a prerequisite for clinical training. The length of the medical course was reduced from seven and a half years to six year, inclusive of a year-long premedical course. A new curriculum was introduced in 2009 and two classes were simultaneously admitted: secondary school students and bachelor degree holders in the natural sciences for the Graduate Entry Medical Programme (GEMP). The GEMP is an integrated four-year medical degree. A clinical skills and simulation centre was also established in 2009 to enhance clinical skills training. The Ghanaian government also provided a high-capacity medical library for the UGMS through budgetary support and GET Fund allocation.\n\nThe first batch of students in 1964 had 41 students. By 1973, the number had risen to 53 students. In 1999, 94 students matriculated at the medical school. With two streams in 2006/07, intake rose to 195 per year. Between 2000 and 2006, student enrolled per annum effectively doubled from about 100 to 200. In 2011, enrollment was 150 per year. The school strives to achieve gender parity in its admissions, with women guaranteed a minimum of 25% of the incoming class. Women intake in the school’s first class was 3 which increased steadily over the years to 71 out a total of 154 students who matriculated in 2011. This represents an increase of 2367 percentage points. Between 1969 and 2012, the medical school produced 2752 physicians, consisting of 2083 men and 669 women.\n\nIn its early days, the school reserved 5% of spots to foreign students from African countries without medical schools. From 1999, the population of international students from around the globe has been pegged at 20%. Student enrollment stood at 802 in the 2006/07. In the 2010/11 academic year, the medical school had an incoming class of 150, and rising, at least a quarter of which are women.\n\nIn the 1980s, due to an economic downturn from the structural adjustment programme in Ghana, the school faced an exodus of its faculty to institutions abroad which led to a reduction in the student intake. There is also an “internal brain drain” as result of a wage gap between clinical teaching staff and consultants in the Ministry of Health whose compensation far exceed that of the UGMS professors. The physical space for clinical training and research is also very limited. For example, the Basic Sciences Building which houses 200 students was originally built to accommodate a quarter of that number.\n\nBeginning in 1972, the medical school through a variety of arrangements for postgraduate education, has trained specialists for national needs. Originally, this was carried out through the Royal Colleges of the United Kingdom, later the West African Postgraduate Medical College and now the Ghana College of Physicians and Surgeons. The Medical School has two programs: the undergraduate MBChB program for students from the Secondary School, and the Graduate Entry Medical Program for Graduate students with a Bachelor of Science degree. It has also runs the Graduate Entrance Medical Programme (GEMP) for people who did Bachelor Degrees in the natural sciences, applied sciences, engineering but not medicine\n\nThe UGMS was instrumental in the establishment of other Ghanaian and African medical schools. In 1970s, the first two batches from the School of Medical Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, completed their training at Korle-Bu. In the 1990s and 2000s, before the Tamale hospital was upgraded to ta teaching hospital, the UGMS hosted students from the School of Medicine and Health Sciences, University for Development Studies (UDS) for pre- and para-clinical and full clinical training leading to the earning of UDS degrees. Professors from the UGMS also go to the UDS from time to time to aid in teaching. A College Council that governs the institution replaced the Executive Council. The University of Ghana Dental School started in 1974 under the aegis of the UGMS, before attaining full faculty status in 1992. The \"Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research\" was founded in 1979 in partnership with the UGMS. In 1994, the Ghanaian Ministry of Health (MoH) authorised a new course: the \"Diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology\" to train laboratory technicians for the country’s hospitals. In the same year, the MoH collaborated with the UGMS to establish a \"School of Public Health\" that would awarded postgraduate degrees in public health, epidemiology and related fields. In 1998, the School of Allied Health Science was started for the training of laboratory scientists, physiotherapists, radiographers, medical and dental technologists and other allied health professionals. The UGMS was the progenitor of the idea to merge all the health-related schools of the University of Ghana into the first constituent college of the university - the College of Health Sciences. Upon the establishment of the College of Health Sciences in 1999, the UGMS, together with five other medical schools became a constituent college. The UGMS played a critical role in the curriculum development for the establishment of the University of Cape Coast Medical School.\n\nWith financial assistance from the Israeli government, a state-of-the-art University Teaching Hospital on the campus of the University of Ghana, Legon was recently completed and the UGMS is in the process expanding infrastructure and access to medical education. The university has in recent years started a school of biomedical sciences and engineering. The UGMS plans to construct simulated laboratories to meet increased demand while making use of peripheral hospitals for clinical training. In the future, the medical school plans to introduce distance learning programmes for certain disciplines. Investment in the school’s research portfolio in the biomedical sciences is a top priority for the university’s medical school. International student tuition is the main source of the school’s internally–generated funds (IGFs).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11334405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11334405", "title": "Warne Report", "text": "Warne Report\n\nThe Warne Report was published by the United Kingdom Government in 1993. It was referred to in a government consultation paper on Reform of Architects Registration dated 19 July 1994. Eventually, certain changes to the Architects Registration Acts were enacted in 1996 which now have effect under the Architects Act 1997.\n\nThe Warne Report had been drawn up by (Ernest) John (David) Warne, CB. He had been secretary to the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales from 1982 to 1990. After graduating BA in the University of London he had entered the Civil Service, and after a series of promotions and transfers (detailed in \"Who's Who\") he had become an Under-Secretary in the Department of Industry, and eventually Deputy Director-General of the Office of Fair Trading, 1979-1982. Mr Warne summarised the conclusion of his report as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50344892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50344892", "title": "Wisak College of Technology", "text": "Wisak College of Technology\n\nWisak College of Technology (abbreviated Wisak) is a private Diploma-granting College which was established in 2003 in the Greater Accra region in Ghana. It is registered under the Ghana Education Service, Ministry of Education (Ghana) and also approved by City and Guilds of London institute in the UK.\n\nOver 3000 students and ICT Professionals has been trained in Wisak college since 2003 it was formed.\n\nMinistry of Education (Ghana)\n"}
