{"id": "331470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331470", "title": "Albacore", "text": "Albacore\n\nThe albacore (\"Thunnus alalunga\"), known also as the longfin tuna, is a species of tuna of the order Perciformes. It is found in temperate and tropical waters across the globe in the epipelagic and mesopelagic zones. There are six distinct stocks known globally in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian oceans, as well as the Mediterranean Sea. The albacore has an elongate, fusiform body with a conical snout, large eyes, and remarkably long pectoral fins. Its body is a deep blue dorsally and shades of silvery white ventrally. Individuals can reach up to in length.\n\nAlbacore are pelagic predators that eat a variety of foods, including fish, crustaceans, and cephalopods. They are unique among tuna in that their primary food source is cephalopods, with fish making up a much smaller portion of their diet. Reproduction usually occurs from November to February and is oviparous. An adult female can release over 2 million eggs in a single cycle. Fry generally stay near where they were spawned for about a year before moving on. Albacore form schools based on their stage in the life cycle, but also combine with other tuna like the skipjack tuna, yellowfin tuna, and bluefin tuna. Once grown, schools are highly migratory.\n\nThe albacore is a very economically important fish and is a target of commercial and recreational fisheries. It was originally the basis for the United States tuna-canning industry and is no less important today, making up significant percentages of the gross domestic products of various Pacific nations. It is listed as Near Threatened by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) because of the threat of overfishing. Several stocks are in significant decline and the species' overall population trend is decreasing.\n\nThe first scientific description of the albacore was authored in 1788 by Pierre Joseph Bonnaterre in the illustrated encyclopedia \"Tableau encyclopédique et methodique des trois règnes de la nature\". He originally placed it in the mackerel genus \"Scomber\". It was assigned to the genus \"Thunnus\" by ichthyologists Bruce B. Collette and Cornelia E. Nauen in 1983. It is a member of the Thunnus subgenus, also known as the bluefin group. Populations of albacore differ genetically by region, with Atlantic, Pacific, and Mediterranean groups each showing differences in mitochondrial and nuclear DNA.\n\nThe albacore has a streamlined, fusiform body with a conical snout, large mouth, and big eyes. Its body is dark blue dorsally, shades of silvery white ventrally, and covered by small scales. The pectoral fins begin slightly before the first dorsal fin and extend well beyond the front of the anal fin, usually as far as the second dorsal finlet, often as long as 30% of the fish's total length. Like the fish's body, the fins are dark blue on top, but change to a medium yellow color on the underside. They are markedly shorter in fish under in length, often resulting in confusion with \"T. obesus\" juveniles, which also have long pectoral fins, though these are rounded at the tips where the albacore's taper to a point. The first dorsal fin is a deep yellow and the second, which is smaller than the first, is a light yellow, as is the anal fin. It has 7-9 dorsal finlets and 7-8 anal finlets, dark blue and silvery white in color respectively, matching the part of the fish's body they are on. The caudal fin is also silvery white. At maximum length, the albacore is the smallest of the bluefin tuna. It reaches sexual maturity at and its common length is only slightly larger at . Males and females exhibit no sexual dimorphism.\n\nThe albacore has a cosmopolitan distribution in tropical and temperate waters across the globe and in every ocean as well as the Mediterranean Sea. A highly migratory species, schools of albacore travel great distances, though Atlantic and Pacific populations do not appear to mix. North Pacific albacore migrate to two regions of the Northeast Pacific: one off the northern part of Baja California, Mexico, and the other off the coasts of Washington and Oregon. Every summer, North Atlantic albacore head to the Bay of Biscay off of France and Spain, but now arrive about 8 days earlier than they did 40 years ago.\n\nIts latitudinal range extends from 59°N to 46°S. Its temperature range is . Its depth range is in the epipelagic and mesopelagic zones. It is most often found in surface waters in temperature, though larger individuals can be found in deeper waters . It can survive at temperatures as low as for short periods of time. It favors areas where warm and cool water mix.\n\nThere are 6 globally managed stocks of albacore worldwide, one in the North Pacific, one in the South Pacific, another in the Indian Ocean, two for the North and South Atlantic, and one in the Mediterranean Sea. Both Pacific stocks are stable, while both Atlantic stocks are likely overfished. The status of the Indian and Mediterranean stocks is less clear, but preliminary reports suggest that these are also declining.\n\nThe albacore is a powerful, hard-hitting predator that forms mixed schools with skipjack tuna, yellowfin tuna, and bluefin tuna, sometimes around floating objects like sargassum weeds. Schools of albacore are highly migratory within bodies of water and segregated by maturity, with older fish tending to form more compact groups. Of those caught by humans, immature albacore have a 1:1 sex ratio while older albacore are mostly male. In the Atlantic Ocean, older fish are found in cooler waters. The opposite is true for the Pacific Ocean, where fish are found more abundantly along thermal discontinuities. Depth range also varies by location: Atlantic fish dive as deep as where Pacific fish reach only in depth. In the northeast Atlantic, feeding migrations to productive areas occur during the summer. Due to climate changes over the last 40 years, the timing and spatial distribution of the albacore have also changed.\n\nAlbacore show a broad range of behavioral differences by region. In Baja California, albacore make frequent dives to depths exceeding during the day and stay near the surface at night, while off the coast of Washington and Oregon they stay near the surface the entire day. Albacore never really rest; their need for oxygen means they must always be on the move.\n\nAlbacore tuna are pelagic predators - open-sea hunters. Their diets vary very little from season to season. Unlike other tuna that eat primarily fish, for example the bigeye and yellowfin tuna, the albacore's main source of food is cephalopods. The most abundant cephalopod in its diet is \"Heteroteuthis dispar\", a tiny deep-water squid found in the Mediterranean Sea and Atlantic Ocean. Other food sources of the albacore include fish, crustaceans, and gelatinous organisms. Not much is known about the food pattern of the albacore, however, mostly because it dives over 400 m underwater when searching for food, and tagging and tracking has been unsuccessful thus far.\n\nThe albacore's reproduction is oviparous and a female can produce between 2-3 million eggs per spawning, which usually takes place between November and February. Eggs mature outside of the female's body and hatch in 1–2 days, after which fry begin to grow quickly. For the first year of their lives, juveniles remain close to the place where they were hatched. They begin to migrate after their first year. Albacore have a lifespan of 11–12 years, but they reach reproductive maturity at around 5–6 years.\n\nA large majority of albacore have larger right testes or ovaries, depending on sex. Albacore have asynchronous oocyte development, that is their immature egg cells do not develop at regular intervals. The creation of ova, known as oogenesis, begins with the rapid production of oogonia (undifferentiated germ cells that give rise to oocytes) by mitotic separations in the oogonial nests of female tuna. The resulting oocytes are cast \"en masse\" into the sea, where full development and later fertilization take place.\n\nAlbacore is a prized food, and the albacore fishery is economically significant. Methods of fishing include pole and line, long-line fishing, trolling, and some purse seining. It is also sought after by sport fishers.\n\nThe harvest of albacore tuna for commercial use began at the start of the 20th century. The migratory patterns of the fish brought droves of albacore schools near the coastline of southern California, which sparked the start of commercial albacore fishing. In 1903, 700 cases of albacore were used as an experimental pack which ultimately led to the development of the U.S. tuna-canning industry. The experiment was a huge success, and the commercial fishery expanded rapidly due to the high level of demand for canned tuna. By the 1920s, the industry expanded further and three other species of tuna, bluefin, yellowfin, and skipjack, were also being canned. Albacore tuna is the only species that can be marketed as \"white meat tuna\". The canning industry uses this label as a way to differentiate canned albacore from other types of tuna.\n\nMany Pacific island countries and territories (PICTs) heavily rely on oceanic fisheries for economic development and food security. The albacore is one of the main four species of tuna that support oceanic fisheries along with the skipjack, yellowfin, and the bigeye tunas. Domestic tuna fleets and local fish processing operations contribute from 3-20% of the gross domestic product in four PICTs. License fees from foreign ships provide an average of 3-40% of government revenue for seven different PICTs. Processing facilities and tuna fishing vessels provide more than 12,000 jobs for workers in the Pacific islands. Fish provide 50-90% of dietary animal protein in rural areas of PICTs.\n\nAlbacore are managed by four tuna Regional Fisheries Management Organizations, (RFMO's) include the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC), the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC), the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC).\n\nICCAT has established catch quotas in the North and South Atlantic. There is substantial uncertainty on current stock status, since different models and assumptions provide a wide range of estimates. However, most of them agreed on the view that spawning stock biomass decreased since the 1930s and started to recover since the mid-1990s. Most of the model formulations, as well as the base case, concluded that currently the stock is not undergoing overfishing but the spawning stock biomass is overfished. IOTC judges albacore in the Indian Ocean are not overfished, but maintaining or increasing effort in the core albacore fishing grounds is likely to result in further declines in albacore biomass. The WCPFC has assessed the South Pacific Albacore are not over fished. In the 2014 assessment, the International Scientific Committee for Tuna and Tuna-like Species in North Pacific Ocean (ISC), Albacore Working Group (ALBWG), found estimates of total stock biomass(age-1 and older)show a long term decline from the early 1970s to 1990 followed by a recovery through the 1990s and subsequent\nfluctuations without trend in the 2000s. The ALBWG concludes that the stock is likely not in an overfished condition at present. \nAll of the tuna Regional Fisheries Management Organizations noted that there is uncertainty surrounding the life history and biology of\nTunas and tuna like species including age and growth, maturity, and natural mortality rates; uncertainty about the quality and completeness of available data; and uncertainty about recruitment.\n\nIn the North Pacific, NOAA Fisheries, Southwest Fisheries Science Center (SWFSC). Since the 1970s the SWFSC has collaborated with American Fishermen's Research Foundation (AFRF) in tagging studies of albacore. Through these studies we have learned that juvenile albacore (2 to years of age) make trans-Pacific migrations in their younger years between Japan and the West coast of North America. To date over 24,000 albacore have been tagged with conventional dart tags and 1,245 of these have been recovered. In Spring of 2001 AFRF and the SWFSC began a pilot project to learn more about the migration habits of North Pacific albacore, Thunnus alalunga in an effort to allow the incorporation of detailed migration movements into stock assessment models. Archival tags are a recent technical innovation that are being used to collect daily locations (through light level data recorded by the tag), internal temperature of the fish's abdomen, ambient water temperature, and depth.\n\nA number of programs have been developed to help consumers identify and support responsible and sustainable fisheries. Perhaps the most widely accepted of these programs is that of the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC). Several albacore fisheries have been certified as sustainable according to MSC standards, including the U.S. North and South Pacific albacore pole and line and troll/jig fisheries (\"pole and troll\"), Canadian North Pacific troll fishery, and the New Zealand South Pacific troll fishery.\n\nSeaChoice ranks albacore as a \"best choice\" for consumers, although notes some \"moderate concerns\" regarding the management effectiveness (in particular, no definitive assessment of the albacore stock of the Indian Ocean fishery has taken place), and \"moderate concern\" over the fishing stock, especially regarding the North Atlantic albacore population, which the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) considers overfished with overfishing still occurring. The southern Atlantic stock is also considered (in 2007) overfished but not currently experiencing overfishing. North Pacific albacore stocks are not overfished and are not experiencing overfishing. South Pacific albacore stocks have recently (2007 to 2015) shown a 40% reduction in stock.\n\nLike other fish, albacore accumulate methylmercury in body tissue over time. Methylmercury is removed from the human body naturally, but it may take over a year for the levels to drop significantly. Thus, it may remain in a woman from before she becomes pregnant. Ranging from as low as .027 ppm (parts per million) to .26 ppm, the average total mercury content of albacore is .14 ± .05 ppm. Larger fish tend to bioaccumulate higher methylmercury levels. For the most part, there is positive correlation between an albacore's methylmercury measurement and its weight and length. Albacore caught by the American albacore fishing fleet off the coasts of Washington, Oregon, and California have far lower mercury levels than in previous years. Albacore caught in this region also show methylmercury levels well below the 1.0 ppm mercury standard set by The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Nevertheless, since mercury does take time to be removed from the body, albacore tuna should be eaten in moderation.\n\nIn 2018 Netflix released the first season of Battlefish, a reality show centered around commercial hook and line Albacore fishermen in Washington and Oregon USA. The show is produced by Pilgrim Media Group which also produces the Wicked Tuna reality show.\n\nIn some parts of the world, other species may be called \"albacore\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19036023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19036023", "title": "Ambush Bug: Year None", "text": "Ambush Bug: Year None\n\nAmbush Bug: Year None is a six-issue comic book limited series written by Keith Giffen and Robert Loren Fleming, and illustrated by Keith Giffen and Al Milgrom. The first issue, \"Hey, You Sank My Battle-Ax!\", was published on July 23, 2008. DC Comics announced that instead of releasing a sixth issue, the series would skip issue #6 and conclude with issue #7. \"Ambush Bug: Year None\" #7 was released on October 28, 2009.\n\nThe first issue, \"Hey, You Sank My Battle-Ax!\", revolves around Ambush Bug trying to solve the murder of Jonni DC, a female version of Johnny DC. Through the course of the story, Ambush Bug encounters such DC Comics characters as Yankee Poodle, Egg Fu, Ace the Bat-Hound and 'Mazing Man. Through the course of his investigation, he is pursued by his evil sock enemy, Argh!Yle! and his minions bent on Ambush Bug's destruction. Also pursuing him is \"Go-Go Chex\", a mysterious being whose face is completely covered with the checkerboard pattern that appeared at the top of DC comic covers during the 1960s; he constantly speaks in 1960s phrases and slang and refers to everyone around him as \"Wonder Chick\". Occasionally, the Source Wall, as a sentient slab of concrete, appears vacationing across time and space in places where Ambush Bug passes.\n\nThe second issue makes fun of Zatanna's mindwipe of the Justice League of America, Rama Kushna, OMACs (who appear to take the places of all normal, background humans), Babe the Blue Ox from \"Jack of Fables\", the Space Ranger, the Green Lantern Corps, Zook, Mister Nebula and Blue Beetle's death. Go-Go Chex continues to pursue Ambush Bug. In the Mister Nebula segment, he briefly takes on the uniform of the Amber Butane Corps, a lampooning of the Green Lantern Corps that wields a sentient lighter instead of a ring.\n\nIn the third issue, Ambush Bug discovers that he and the Dumb Bunny (a member of the Inferior Five) got married in Las Vegas while he was drunk. He spends most of the issue running from one reality to another trying to find a way out of his marriage; along the way he encounters Neron (whom he asks to nullify his marriage in a spoof of the Marvel Comics storyline \"\"), Darkseid (whom he goes to a karaoke bar with), Super-Turtle (who wreaks massive destruction, à la Superboy-Prime), Jerro the Merboy, the Odd Man and Go-Go Chex and his assistant Saki Toomi (\"Sock it to me\").\n\nThe fourth issue starts by referencing a mistake made in issue #2, where one page was printed without its dialogue balloons. DC editor Dan DiDio takes responsibility for the mistake despite having nothing to do with it, a jab at the angry reaction from fans when certain characters were changed or killed off without him having anything to do with it. Dan DiDio is crushed and killed by a falling Ambush Bug and Argh!Yle starts to believe that he and Ambush Bug are actually one and the same. The issue continues mostly without Ambush Bug for the first half, focusing on lesser characters Argh!Yle and Mitsu Bishi as a parody of the series \"52\". In trying to find Ambush Bug they feature the Golden Age Robin, Renee Montoya and most of the main characters from \"52\". Near the end, Ambush Bug chats with Argh!Yle on Wonder Woman's invisible speaker phone and confirms that he is alive and is not Dan DiDio. He then gets kidnapped by the Ambush Bug Revenge Squad, who argue over obscure comic book quotations while Ambush Bug gets bored and escapes.\n\nThe final issue of the miniseries had been delayed for more than six months for undisclosed reasons. Fans have speculated that the delay was related to the departure of DC’s Senior Coordinating Editor Jann Jones from the company, as she was included in the story as a character. The final issue of the series was released on October 28, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "40971804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40971804", "title": "American Art Association", "text": "American Art Association\n\nThe American Art Association was an art gallery and auction house with sales galleries, established in 1883.\n\nIt was first located at 6 East 23rd Street (South Madison Square) in Manhattan, New York City and moved to Madison Ave and 56th St. in 1922. It was the first auction house in the U.S. and had a strong presence in New York during the period of American history known as the Gilded Age, hosting some of the cities major art exhibitions at the time. The galleries and auctions were devoted to paintings by American artists and also had an Oriental Art Department. The aim of the association was to promote American art through a highly visible, cosmopolitan auction venue.\n\nThe American Art Association (AAA) was founded by James F. Sutton (President of AAA), R. Austin Robertson, and Thomas Kirby (1846–1924) in 1883. Thomas Kirby had grown up in Philadelphia and moved his family to New York in 1876, in the years prior to starting the AAA, he worked at various auction firms and importers in New York. In 1882, Sutton proposed a partnership that would result in the formation of the American Art Association.\n\nDuring AAA's operation, Sutton, Kirby, Robertson and their staff supervised the sales of hundreds of collections and works of art. R. Austin Robertson traveled to China and Japan to make selections for the Oriental Department. In its first year, AAA exhibited Thomas B. Clarke's collection of American paintings that was a benefit for the National Academy of Design. The AAA held its first auction in 1885.\n\nIn 1923, after Kirby retired, Cortlandt F. Bishop (1870–1935), a pioneer aviator and book collector, purchased the American Art Association from Kirby.\n\nIn 1929, the Association merged with the Anderson Auction Company to form the American Art Association-Anderson Galleries, Inc, and in 1938, the firm was taken over by Parke-Bernet Galleries, Inc., which had been formed a year earlier.\n\nIn 1964, Sotheby's purchased Parke-Bernet, then the largest auctioneer of fine art in the United States.\n\nThe Archives of American Art, Smithsonian Institution maintains the bulk of the American Art Association records. Additional records are found at the Frick Art Reference Library maintains much of the American Art Association records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1491237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491237", "title": "Annals of Ulster", "text": "Annals of Ulster\n\nThe Annals of Ulster () are annals of medieval Ireland. The entries span the years from A.D. 431 to A.D. 1540. The entries up to A.D. 1489 were compiled in the late 15th century by the scribe Ruaidhrí Ó Luinín, under his patron Cathal Óg Mac Maghnusa on the island of Belle Isle on Lough Erne in the kingdom of Fermanagh. Later entries (up to A.D. 1540) were added by others.\n\nEntries up to the mid-6th Century are retrospective, drawing on earlier annalistic and historical texts, while later entries were contemporary, based on recollection and oral history. T.M. Charles-Edwards has claimed that the main source for its records of the first millennium A.D. is a now lost Armagh continuation of the Chronicle of Ireland.\n\nThe Annals used the Irish language, with some entries in Latin. Because the Annals copied its sources verbatim, they are useful not just for historians, but also for linguists studying the evolution of the Irish language.\n\nA century later, the Annals of Ulster became an important source for the authors of the Annals of the Four Masters. It also informs the Irish text \"Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib\".\n\nThe Library of Trinity College Dublin possesses the original manuscript; the Bodleian Library in Oxford has a contemporary copy that fills some of the gaps in the original. There are two main modern English translations of the annals – Mac Airt and Mac Niocaill (1983) and MacCarthy (1893).\n\nSeveral kings are mentioned throughout the Annals of Ulster. The Annals tend to follow the lives of the kings, including important battles, raids, and their ultimate death. Between the years of 847 and 879, three different kings are highlighted. For example:\nMáel Sechnaill mac Máele Ruanaid, the king of the southern Ui Neill clan from 846–862:\n\nThe same pattern is followed for Aed mac Neill, the king of the northern Ui Neill clan. Aed mac Neill appears in the following entries in the Annals of Ulster: 855.3, 856.5, 860.1, 861.1, 862.2, 862.3, 863.2, 864.1, 864.3, 866.4, 868.4, 870.2, 874.4, and finally 879.1\n\nThe final entry ends with the entry about his death and includes a poem. It reads “Aed son of Niall, king of Temair, fell asleep on the twelfth of the Kalends of 20 December Nov at Druim Inasclainn in the territory of Conaille.\n\n1. (Twelve days before the melodious Kalends \n\nOf December—a harsh company— \n\nA wonderful person died to your loss(?), \n\nAed of Ailech, over-king of the Irish. \n2. A generous prudent man of shields \n\nWho brought plenty to landed Temair, \n\nAgainst iron-tipped spears a buckler \n\nFrom the forge-fire of the land of the sons of Mil.)”\n\nJust as with the Irish kings, the Annals of Ulster follow the lives of the Viking kings of Dublin. For example, Amlaíb Conung (Olaf Konung) is mentioned in the following entries: 853.2, 857.1, 859.2, 863.4, 864.2, 866.1, 867.8, 869.6, 870.6, 871.2, and 875.4\n\nThe final entry deviates from the Irish kings and instead tells of the death of Amlaib’s son, Oistín and reads: “Oistín son of Amlaíb, king of the Norsemen, was deceitfully killed by Albann.”\n\nAlong with kings and kingdoms, the entries in the Annals of Ulster focus on important places of Ireland such as Armagh, the ecclesiastical capital of Ireland which appears several times throughout the text. Dublin for example, referred to in the text as either Áth Cliath or Duiblinn, is described in the Annals of Ulster with entries ranging from the settlement of Dublin by Vikings (\"The heathens still at Duiblinn\" in 842.2 and \"An encampment of the foreigners of Áth Cliath at Cluain Andobuir\" in 845.12) to deaths of notable names (\"Carlus son of Conn son of Donnchad was killed in Áth Cliath\" in 960.2) to Dublin being ruled by the Irish (\"The foreigners returned to Áth Cliath and gave hostages to Brian\" in 1000.4).\n\nThe town appears 66 different times in the Annals of Ulster and can be found in the following entries:\n770.1, 790.2, 841.4, 842.2, 842.7, 845.12, 851.3, 870.2, 871.2 893.4, 895.6, 902.2, 917.4, 919.3, 920.5, 921.5, 921.8, 924.3, 926.6, 927.3, 930.1, 936.2, 938.5, 938.6, 939.1, 942.3, 942.7, 944.3, 945.6, 946.1, 947.1, 950.7, 951.3, 951.7, 956.3, 960.2, 961.1, 978.3, 980.1, 994.6, 995.2, 999.8, 1000.4, 1013.12, 1013.13, 1014.2, 1018.2, 1021.1, 1022.4, 1031.2, 1035.5, 1070.2, 1075.1, 1075.4, 1084.8, 1088.4, 1094.2, 1095.4, 1100.5, 1103.5, 1105.3, 1115.4, 1118.6, 1121.7, 1126.7, and 1128.6\n\nThe Annals of Ulster contain a large amount of historical information on the invasions of the Vikings into Ireland and several specific events are mentioned that are paralleled in other Irish works such as the Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib. The Annals of Ulster documents the Viking invasions one year after the common starting event of the Viking Period, the raiding of Lindisfarne in 793, as mentioned by the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\". The first mentioning of the Vikings is very brief. \"794.7 Devastation of all the islands of Britain by heathens,” yet over the course of the annals their attacks become more specific \"807.8 The heathens burned Inis Muiredaig and invade Ros Comáin.\"\n\nThe Vikings are called several different names throughout the annals: foreigners, dark or fair-foreigners, heathens, Norsemen, Norse-Irish and Danes. It is often unclear if these titles attribute nationalities or certain alliances as they are used intermixed throughout.\n\nThe annals mention the foreigners’ beginnings in Ireland as one of plunder and slave taking. According to the annals, the Norsemen took many slaves in their raids. \"821.3 Étar was plundered by the heathens, and they carried off a great number of women into captivity.\" However, eventually they establish a permanent base in Áth Cliath or Dublin by 841. In \"841.4 There was a naval camp at Linn Duachaill from which the peoples and churches of Tethba were plundered. There was a naval camp at Duiblinn from which the Laigin and the Uí Néill were plundered, both states and churches, as far as Sliab Bladma.\"\n\nAlthough the Vikings are portrayed as heathens, the Annals describes strife between the Irish against each other and often the foreigners are depicted as allies to various Irish factions. The depiction of warfare involving the \"heathens\" is not one-sided; in the annals they are often allied with the Irish against other Irish. Some Irishmen are even accused of doing the same sort of raiding as the Viking invaders. In \"847.3 Mael Sechnaill destroyed the Island of Loch Muinremor, overcoming there a large band of wicked men of Luigni and Gailenga, who had been plundering the territories in the manner of the heathens.\"\n\nSeveral famous battles and characters involving the Vikings can be found within the Annals of Ulster. The Battle of Brunanburh 937.6, the Battle of Tara 980.1, and the Battle of Clontarf 1014.1 are all described in brief detail. Some Viking individuals of note mentioned in the annals with parallels in other historical sources are the foreign chieftain Turgeis, beginning in 845, Ímar and Amlaíb, the later progenitors of the Uí Ímair, rulers of Áth Cliath or Dublin. Irish historical figures included within the text are Máel Sechnaill, Muirchertach son of Niall and Brian Boru.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8665308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8665308", "title": "Annals of the Cakchiquels", "text": "Annals of the Cakchiquels\n\nThe Annals of the Cakchiquels (in , also known by the alternative Spanish titles, Anales de los Xahil, Memorial de Tecpán-Atitlán or Memorial de Sololá) is a manuscript written in Kaqchikel by Francisco Hernández Arana Xajilá in 1571, and completed by his grandson, Francisco Rojas, in 1604. The manuscript — which describes the legends of the Kaqchikel nation and has historical and mythological components — is considered an important historical document on post-classic Maya civilization in the highlands of Guatemala.\n\nThe manuscript, initially kept by the Xahil lineage in the town of Sololá in Guatemala, was later discovered in the archives of the \"San Francisco de Guatemala\" convent in 1844. It was subsequently translated by the abbot Charles Etienne Brasseur de Bourbourg in 1855 (the same translator of the Rabinal Achí), and then passed through several more hands before being published in an English translation by Daniel G. Brinton in 1885.\n\nThe mythical and legendary part of the manuscript, which must have been orally preserved for centuries, was finally collected and preserved by members of the Xahil \"tinamit\" or lineage. The historical narrative continues with the exploits of kings and warriors and their various conquests, the founding of villages, and the succession of rulers up to the time of the Spanish Conquest.\n\nLike the \"Popol Vuh\", the \"Annals\" also identifies the almost legendary Tulan as the place from which they all set out, at least at one point in their various migrations. The texts differs from the other sources, such as the \"Historia de los Xpantzay de Tecpán Guatemala\" and \"Título de Totonicapán\", but mainly from the \"Popol Vuh\", in that it relates that the Kaqchikel ancestors came to Tulan, \"ch'aqa palow\" \"across the sea\", from \"r(i) uqajib'al q'ij\", \"where the sun descends, the west.\" The Kaqchikel narrative is quite gloomy, describing the forefather's departure from Tulan accompanied by a negative omen and the presaging of death and dismay. It also refers to the K'iche' rulers forcing the King Q'uicab the Great to leave \"Chaiviar\" (Chichicastenango), and migrate to the \"Ratzamut Mountains\" to found Iximché, which remained the new Kaqchikel capital until the arrival of the \"conquistadores\". The Kaqchikel document continues with an account of their journeys and the places through which they passed along the way, ending with a sober, factual account of the Conquest. This is the native story of the Conquest of Guatemala from the point of view of the vanquished.\n\n"}
{"id": "1235002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235002", "title": "Annual publication", "text": "Annual publication\n\nAnnual publications, more often called simply annuals, are periodical publications appearing regularly once per year. Although exact definitions may vary, types of annuals include: Calendars and almanacs, directories, yearbooks, annual reports, proceedings and transactions, and literary annuals. A weekly or monthly publication may produce an \"Annual\" featuring similar materials to the regular publication. Some encyclopedias have published annual supplements that essentially summarize the news of the past year, similar to some newspaper yearbooks.\n\nTo libraries and collectors, annuals present challenges of size (tens or hundreds of volumes) and completeness (acquiring a sequence with no missing volumes). They are handled similar to serial publications, which typically means a single library catalog record for the title, not for individual years. The single record must then indicate which volumes (years) are held.\n\nThe mid and late 20th century saw a sharp increase in the publication of annuals, to report scientific results and provide overview, both in ever more specialized topics and in popular summary.\n\nA new form of literary work called the \"Annual\" was a fad from about 1823 through 1857, and became so popular, that they were soon published up to 17 times a year. British royalty increased their popularity. They closely resemble many college literary \"books\" just produced for college campus today, except they contained lots of etchings of beautiful women from steel plates. They were the fashion magazines of the day. Later it became fashionable to watercolor the etchings, and the \"Annuals\" became early coloring books. There was later a backlash against \"beauty\", and the fad ended, as did steel plate etchings for books.\n\n\"The Annual\" was a long running fad from 1824 until 1857 which started in England, but spilled over into the USA. Steel plates of the 1820s allowed book publishers to mass-produce pictures. What started out as an \"annual book\" or a gift for the holidays, turned into something that had up to 17 editions through the year (yet were still called Annuals). Countess Blessington and other royal women contributed to the works, and altered fashion. This fad was sometimes referred to as \"beauty\", as books with plates of women defined the content.\nIn one book, the steel plate was damaged and another picture of a woman was simply used as a replacement. The illustrations had often nothing to do with the text content. The content of the text was often of poor quality, and \"The American Book of Beauty\" contained a story of prison torture with an illustration of a pretty woman with a lapdog. The \"American Book of Beauty\", also has several copies of the books, with portraits in different orders. One edition of the \"Heath's Book of Beauty\" was a college project, and contained poems, short stories, etc. 1826 was not a good year for the annuals, because of the Panic of 1825. In the 1830s you see a sarcastic poem about the Annuals by Thomas Hood (The Battle of the Annuals). Watercolor became popular in the 1830s, and the black and white etchings were the coloring books of the day. In 1842, Volume 1, page 521 of the \"Illustrated London News\" there are sarcastic pictures poking fun at the annuals. In 1844 there was an article referring to it as \"imbecilic mania\", and finally the Obituary for the Annual, appeared in the Art Journal of 1857. The death of the annuals and new photo techniques replacing etching ended most engraver's careers.\n\nA yearbook is a volume that summarizes events of the past year. One of the earliest is \"The Annual Register\", published in London since 1758. A forerunner is Abel Boyer's \"The Political State of Great Britain\" (38 volumes, 1711–29). Later examples include \"The Statesman's Yearbook\" (since 1864) and the \"Daily Mail Year Book\" (since 1901). Two early German titles are \"Europäischer Geschichtskalender\", founded in 1861 by Heinrich Schulthess and Gottlob Egelhaaf’s \"Historisch-politische Jahresübersicht\" (28 volumes, 1908–1936).\n\nIn the case of comic books, an annual is considered a separate series for purposes of numbering and collectibility; a particular periodical's \"Annual\" will thus have its own numbering series, or alternately be referred to by the year of its publication (such as \"The Amazing Spider-Man '99 Annual\"). A comic book annual customarily has a larger page count than its monthly counterpart, leaving room for longer single stories, multiple stories in a single annual, and/or \"extra\" material that the monthly series lacks the space to publish. These \"extras\" may include biographical information on featured characters, full-page pin-ups of characters, reprints of previously published material, or all-new short stories (often called \"back-up\" stories). An annual as a whole was once considered an \"extra\" in itself, providing story material in addition to the customary twelve issues per year of a monthly series.\n\nComic book annuals originally were little more than reprint albums, representing stories that had first seen publication in its monthly counterpart, but eventually this changed to annuals featuring primarily all-new material. Later annuals often featured stories with greater import to the characters featured than in the monthly publication, reflecting the \"special\" status of their once-yearly publication. Annuals also on occasion featured the finale of a multi-issue storyline running in the monthly series; conversely, many annuals would showcase stand-alone stories that did not fit in with the then-current thrust of the monthly series' storyline.\n\nIn the late 1980s and much of the 1990s, annuals published by Marvel Comics and DC Comics were usually released in the summer of the year, and often had a unifying theme, either a similar theme that individual stories were written around, or a crossover storyline bringing many of the characters in the individual publishers' continuities together for a single overall event. In the case of the \"crossover\" annuals, the number of characters and annuals involved in a crossover story varied. Some were company-wide, incorporating virtually every character in the publisher's shared universe whose series received an annual edition. Others used smaller groups of characters whose series had some sort of in-story connection, such as series featuring members of teams or \"extended families\" of characters.\n\nAnnuals published by DC and particularly Marvel became fewer and far between in the late 1990s, mainly due to the near-collapse of the comic book industry in the wake of the speculator boom; annuals were seen as an unnecessary risk in a climate where many monthly publications were in danger of cancellation for lack of sales (especially at Marvel, which filed for bankruptcy during this time). When the industry began to recover from the \"bust\", annuals began re-appearing on occasion, but by no means as regularly as before the \"bust\", when numbered series of annuals had reached the teens or twenties, indicating over a decade of regular publication.\n\nCurrently, the comic book annual is still something of a rarity, its purpose in presenting \"extra\" material often served by \"Special\" editions that are released at random intervals (usually to fill a gap in a publisher's production schedule) rather than the set yearly schedule of an annual. In addition, Marvel Comics in particular has adopted a publishing schedule in which thirteen or fourteen issues of an ongoing series will be published within a year, rather than one issue for every month of the year; the material provided in the additional issues per year in effect replaces the material that would see print in an annual.\n\nIn the UK, a large number of annuals are published shortly before the end of each year by companies such as D.C. Thomson, Egmont (formerly IPC/Fleetway), and Rebellion Developments, aimed at the Christmas market. These annuals are generally large-sized hardcover books with over 100 pages and a high colour content. They are normally cover-dated with the following year's date, to ensure that stockists do not remove them from their shelves immediately after the new year.\n\nOne of the earliest annuals was issued in 1822. Frederic Shoberl was the founding editor of Ackermanns ‘'The Forget-me-not'’ which was an early \"Annual\", a new type of publication in England. Shoberl continued to edit the annual until 1834. A junior annual \"The juvenile Forget-me-not\" was published from 1828.\n\nFor many years until the near-collapse of the British children's comics market, an annual would be published each year for each of the comic titles published by Thomson and IPC/Fleetway, featuring extra adventures of the comic's current and former characters plus additional material in the form of puzzles, text articles, etc. Annuals were often even published for comics which had themselves ceased publication or been absorbed into other titles, for example \"Scorcher\" annuals were still being published ten years after the comic itself had been absorbed into \"Tiger\". Today, this section of the market has been reduced to just a couple of surviving titles.\n\nIn addition, annuals are often published centred on sports, toys, currently-popular celebrities, recently released films, and popular TV series. British annuals are also published featuring American characters such as Spider-Man, often with simplified content aimed at younger readers. As tastes in these areas change, so does the line-up of annuals released each year. The increasing emphasis in recent years on annuals of this type (as opposed to the \"classic\" line-up of annuals based on comics) means that sales remain strong, and in fact doubled between 1998 and 2005\nSome annuals have become extremely collectible, especially The Beano, The Dandy, Rupert and Eagle.\n\n"}
{"id": "20649332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20649332", "title": "Art Museum by the Zoo", "text": "Art Museum by the Zoo\n\nArt Museum by the Zoo () is a 1998 South Korean film written and directed by Lee Jeong-hyang.\n\nOn leave from the military, Cheol-soo arrives at his girlfriend's apartment only to find it occupied by another woman, Choon-hee. After a few days he finds out that his girlfriend is now engaged to someone else, and having nowhere else to go he ends up staying with Choon-hee. At first the two struggle to get along, but before long Chul-soo discovers that she is writing a screenplay to enter into a competition, and they end up working on a story together based on their own experiences of love, titling it \"Art Museum by the Zoo.\"\n\n\n\"Art Museum by the Zoo\" was released in South Korea on December 19, 1998, drawing a then-impressive 412,472 viewers in Seoul alone, making it the fifth best-selling Korean film of 1998.\n\nIn 1999, Shim Eun-ha won Best Actress at the Grand Bell Awards, and Lee Sung-jae swept Best New Actor awards at the Baeksang Arts Awards, the Chunsa Film Art Awards, the Grand Bell Awards and the Blue Dragon Film Awards.\n\nDirector Lee Jeong-hyang was praised for her sophisticated and detailed direction, and the film is now considered a classic of 1990s Korean cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "16700114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16700114", "title": "Breaking the Code", "text": "Breaking the Code\n\nBreaking the Code is a 1986 play by Hugh Whitemore about British mathematician Alan Turing, who was a key player in the breaking of the German Enigma code at Bletchley Park during World War II and a pioneer of computer science. The play thematically links Turing's cryptographic activities with his attempts to grapple with his homosexuality.\n\nIt was adapted as a 1996 television film directed by Herbert Wise, with Derek Jacobi reprising his stage role as Turing.\n\n\nFollowing an eight-month run at the Theatre Royal, Haymarket in London's West End beginning on 21 October 1986, the play ran on Broadway in New York City from 15 November 1987, to 10 April 1988, in both cases starring Derek Jacobi. The Broadway production also featured Jenny Agutter in the role of Pat Green. William A. Henry III, writing in \"Time\" magazine, described the play as \"elegant and poignant\". The Broadway production was nominated for three Tony Awards including Best Actor in a Play, Best Featured Actor in a Play, and Best Direction of a Play, and for two Drama Desk awards, for Best Actor and Best Featured Actor. Following Jacobi's departure, the London production transferred to the Comedy Theatre with John Castle as Turing.\n\nThe national première for Italy of the play was translated and directed by Luca Giberti at the Stabile Theatre in Genoa, featuring Jurij Ferrini.\n\nDuring the Turing Centenary 2012, there were two productions of the play in Germany, at the and an amateur tour through Germany and the Netherlands by the University Players Hamburg.\n\nThe play was also staged just before the start of the Alan Turing Year celebrations, in December 2011, at the in Oxford, by Oxford Theatre Guild.\n\nThe play was produced at The Royal Exchange Theatre in 2016, the first major revival of the play in thirty years, with Daniel Rigby in the role of Alan Turing\n\nThe play was adapted for television in a 1996 BBC filmed production, directed by Herbert Wise, and also starring Jacobi, which won a Broadcasting Press Guild Award and was nominated for two BAFTA TV awards, for best single drama and best actor, and for a GLAAD Media Award. It was broadcast in the United States by PBS on \"Masterpiece Theatre\". A producer's cut was released on DVD in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "20936167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20936167", "title": "Cassell's National Library", "text": "Cassell's National Library\n\nCassell's National Library was a series issued by Cassell, Petter, Galpin & Co. in London consisting of edited versions of English literature. The series was edited by Henry Morley, and between 1886 and 1890 it issued 209 weekly volumes. These were sold for 3d (paperback) or 6d (hardback).\n"}
{"id": "8310262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8310262", "title": "Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage", "text": "Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage\n\nThe Center for Folklife & Cultural Heritage (CFCH) is one of three cultural centers within the Smithsonian Institution. Its motto is \"culture of, by, and for the people\", and it is a steward and ambassador to cultures around the world. It does this by encouraging understanding and cultural sustainability through research, education, and community engagement. The CFCH differs in important aspects from the more conventional museums within the Smithsonian complex. It contains (numerically) the largest collection in the Smithsonian, but is not fully open to the public. Its budget comes primarily from grants, trust monies, federal appropriations, and gifts, with only a small percentage coming out the main Smithsonian budget.\n\nThe center is composed of three distinct units. The Smithsonian Folklife Festival is planned and implemented annually by the Festival staff at the Folklife center. The Smithsonian Folkways Record label comprises a second team working at the center; they produce this non-profit music label with the goal of promoting and supporting the cultural diversity of sound. The third team at CFCH manages and curates the Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections. While the archive, filled with paper documentation and other memorabilia, is traditionally considered to be museum material, the other two sections exemplify more accurately the direction CFCH is headed, with a \"shift from reified and ossified discourses of 'preservation' to more dynamic and ecological models of sustainability\". Instead of collecting and curating objects (items, stuff), both the Festival and the Folkways units at CFCH collect, research, and produce experiences.\n\nThe compound name, Center for Folklife & Cultural Heritage, epitomizes an ongoing transition within the field of cultural studies. In concatenated form, it documents the shift from folklore to cultural heritage that has taken place in academics and in fieldwork within the last 15 years.\n\nThe CFCH is just one of several federal institutions to have related mandates. The American Folklife Center, just down the street at the Library of Congress, limits its scope to American Folklife in contrast to the international scope of the CFCH. The National Endowment for the Arts, also headquartered in Washington, D.C., offers support and funding to both new and established art media. As such, it overlaps with topical arts programs brought to the National Mall each summer during the Smithsonian Folklife Festival. The National Park Service has as one of its objectives the preservation of historic sites, partnering with CFCH in their concerns for the cultural sustainability of both tangible and natural cultural resources.\n\nA plethora of newly minted compound concepts have been introduced into the vocabulary and discussion of since the turn of the century. The topics and research areas that had been labeled as \"folklore\" and \"folklife\" are increasingly rebranded as topics within the purview of cultural studies. It is this contemporary shift that the CFCH bridges in its compound title of Folklife & Cultural Heritage.\n\nThis linguistic shift can be documented more precisely in the language of the UNESCO treaties. At a meeting in 1989, they published a Recommendation on the Safeguarding of Traditional Culture and Folklore. This paper defines the field as folklore and uses that term throughout its paper.\n\nFolklore (or traditional and popular culture) is the totality of tradition-based creations of a cultural community, expressed by a group or individuals and recognized as reflecting the expectations of a community in so far as they reflect its cultural and social identity; its standards and values are transmitted orally, by imitation or by other means. Its forms are, among others, language, literature, music, dance, games, mythology, rituals, customs, handicrafts, architecture and other arts. \n\nBy 2003, the follow-up treaty was entitled the Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage. Once again the subject matter was defined:\n\nIntangible Cultural Heritage means the practices, representations, expressions, knowledge, and skills – as well as the instruments, objects, artifacts and cultural spaces associated therewith – that communities, groups and, in some cases, individuals recognize as part of their cultural heritage. This intangible cultural heritage, transmitted from generation to generation, is constantly recreated by communities and groups in response to their environment, their interaction with nature and their history, and provides them with a sense of identity and continuity, thus promoting respect for cultural diversity and human creativity.\n\nIn the space of 15 years on the international playing field folklore has been rebranded as cultural heritage. It is this dramatic shift that CFCH bridges in its compound title of Folklife & Cultural Heritage.\n\nThis eclectic collection of artifacts and activities came together at the Center for Folklife & Cultural Heritage through a series of fortuitous and unplanned events. It began with the first Festival of American Folklife in 1967.\n\nIn 1964 the new Smithsonian secretary, S. Dillon Ripley, arrived in Washington with an innovative museum concept; he challenged curators to \"take the objects out of their cases and make them sing\". To facilitate this, Sec. Ripley appointed James R. Morris as the Smithsonian's first Director of Museum Services. Jim Morris had no professional museum experience. Nevertheless, he proposed to stage an outdoor festival on the National Mall during the summer, building on his previous career as both performer and manager in the music industry. Using the (by then) well established National Folk Festival as a model, he wanted to exhibit and celebrate different folk traditions from across the nation. This was non-standard for the Smithsonian, and guaranteed to provoke curators well-established inside their elegant, ordered museum buildings.\n\nOnce approved by Ripley, Morris hired Ralph Rinzler to help him produce this festival for the upcoming summer 1967. Rinzler had previously worked at the Newport Folk Festival, and brought with him both the know-how and connections needed to pull together a new DC folk festival. The first Festival of American Folklife, with a budget of $4,900 and showcasing eighty-four participants, took place over the Fourth of July weekend 1967 on the National Mall and on the plaza of the Museum of History and Technology. By the time of the Bicentennial Celebration 10 years later, the DC Folklife Festival had been incorporated into the festivities for the national party with activities scheduled throughout the summer. It had a seven million-dollar budget, lasted twelve weeks and involved five thousand artists from every region in the United States and from thirty-five other nations. Jim Morris and Ralph Rinzler were named \"Washingtonians of the Year\". Following the Bicentennial Festival, Jim Morris went on to other positions in the Smithsonian complex. Ralph Rinzler continued in the Festival organization, originally as part of the Smithsonian's Division of Performing Arts until a separate Office of Folklife Programs was created in 1980.\n\nNow that the festival organization and model were well established, Rinzler began to explore other varieties of folklife productions appropriate for a national museum. He spear-headed the protracted negotiations to purchase the Folkways music collection from Moe Asch, including both recordings and business files. These were successfully concluded in 1987, and this collection became the core of the Ralph Rinzler Folklife Archives and Collections, a rich resource for the study of folk culture and music. The recordings were bundled into the Smithsonian Folkways label.\n\nIn 1998, the Festival was renamed the \"Smithsonian Folklife Festival\" to reflect its international interests, and in 1999 the office was renamed the Center for Folklife & Cultural Heritage to reflect its research and public program functions. Ralph Rinzler worked at the center until his death in 1994.\n\nSince 1967 the Smithsonian Folklife Festival has enlivened the National Mall and excited visitors with ongoing performances and demonstrations of contemporary cultural traditions. It has become a national and international model of a research-based presentation of intangible cultural heritage. Year after year, it continues to bring musicians, artists, performers, craftspeople, workers, cooks, and storytellers into this public forum to demonstrate the skills, knowledge, and aesthetics that embody the creative vitality of community-based traditions.\n\nThe Smithsonian Folkways Recordings has as its stated mission to curate and provide public access to each item in their collection of folk music, spoken word, instruction, and sounds from around the world. The record label originated as the Folkways Records of Moe Asch, which were donated to the Smithsonian in 1989 under the unique condition that all records in the collection remain available \"forever\", regardless of sales. Since then, the label has expanded on Asch's vision of documenting and preserving music and soundscapes from around the world. It now includes an extensive collection of traditional American music, children's music, and international music. As such, Smithsonian Folkways has become an important collection to the musical community to access and research these recordings from all over the world.\n\nThe Archives' holdings were seeded by the business records of the Folkways Record label, which were acquired by the CFCH in 1987, and contain the business files of Lead Belly, Pete Seeger, and Woody Guthrie among others. The archive continues to grow in tandem with both the annual Folklife Festival, and the Folkways record label; it serves as the documentation and research foundation for the activities of these other two units of the CFCH. As with all archives, the Folklife Archives is currently working hard to move its entire collection into digital format, thus enabling global access to the artifacts. This includes not only the artifacts which are born-digital but also older analog forms which require reformatting for the digital world.\n\nIn alignment with the mission of the Smithsonian Institution, the Center for Folklife & Cultural Heritage is actively promoting and supporting research in fields under its purview. Currently there are three main research areas actively sponsored by CFCH.\n\nIntroduced as a concept in the Brundtland Report published in 1987, sustainable development was originally defined as encompassing three domains: environmental, economic, and social. It posited that these components must work in concert with each other to insure that current development does not impede development in the future. In 2010, a fourth component was added to this model: culture. This component, previously tucked in with social sustainability, was now to considered in its own right. By acknowledging culture to be independent and separate from the social development of individuals, it recognizes the power and role of cultural structures and forms to give shape and meaning to a social group.\n\nThis is the moment when the CFCH took notice. An active research group was formed to explore and articulate this concept of cultural sustainability. How is this defined, and how is it measured? Their goal is to explore means and indicators for assessing the impacts of culture on sustainable development, to develop best practices for bringing culture into political and social policy, and to share their findings with individuals, communities and policymakers around the world.\n\nIn the practical implementation of cultural sustainability, CFCH also manages three different projects where the theoretical finding of this research can be put to test in the field. The project is a collaboration between the people of Armenia, the Smithsonian, and USAID. In their , CFCH is dedicated to building the sustainability of craft traditions of individuals and groups. A third team involved in the more theoretical work on works with UNESCO, ministries of culture around the world, as well as local, national, and international governments to recommend and develop policy concepts and language on cultural sustainability.\n\nWorking in collaboration with the Smithsonian initiative , this interdisciplinary research program explores relationships between language revitalization, cultural heritage, and traditional cultural transmission. How much of the culture of a region is embodied in the actual vocabulary of its language? What unique knowledge is lost when a language has lost its last native speaker? These are some of the issues investigated in this research area, which focuses specifically on the indigenous or minoritized languages of Europe. The charge for this inquiry was set forth in 1992 with passage of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, which mandates protection and promotion of historical regional and minority languages in Europe. Spotlighting these questions also brings into sharp relief the shadow side of minority language communities, which are characteristically marked by poverty, isolation, segregation, travel restrictions, and censorship.\n\n\"The past is never dead. It's not even past. \" This quote from William Faulkner neatly sums up the work at CFCH. Along with the artifacts of material culture, we are blanketed with artifacts of intangible cultural heritage, including traditions of performance, ritual, music, dance, knowledge, storytelling, and oral transmission. Tradition is always with us, shaping our thoughts, our behavior, our path into the future. This research group brings together thought leaders, both digitally and in person, to explore some of the critical issues facing our nation and the world. This new platform is one of the ways in which the center is working to implement a strategic plan goal of convening conversations on topics of importance. Through these connections with external networks and strategic cultural partners, best practices and challenges emerge to inform the future of cultural heritage policy and practice at the Smithsonian. As one of the \"Grand Challenges\" of the Smithsonian, CFCH strives to be steward and ambassador of cultural connections.\n\nMorris, James R. , Smithsonian Impresario: A Memoir by James Morris (2011-10-27)\n\nRipley, S. Dillon, The Sacred Grove, Essays on Museums.\n\nNational Folk Festival History, http://ncta-usa.org/wp/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/NFF-History.pdf\n"}
{"id": "41950778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41950778", "title": "Cinematek", "text": "Cinematek\n\nCINEMATEK (Dutch: Koninklijk Belgisch Filmarchief; French: Cinémathèque royale de Belgique; English: Royal Belgian Film Archive) is a film archive in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe archive was established in 1938 under the name Royal Belgian Film Archive by Henri Storck, André Thirifays, and Piet Vermeylen.\n\nIts collection include works on film by Man Ray, Duchamp and Léger.\n\nThe Royal Belgian Film Archive is currently known as \"Cinematek\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3783949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3783949", "title": "Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English", "text": "Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English\n\nThe Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English is a one-volume dictionary published by Oxford University Press. It is intended for a family or upper secondary school readerships. The third edition (revised), published in 2008, has 1,264 pages, somewhat smaller than the \"Concise Oxford English Dictionary\", and is distinct from the \"Compact\" (single- and two-volume photo-reduced) editions of the multi-volume \"Oxford English Dictionary\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53585200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53585200", "title": "Comparative army officer ranks of the Commonwealth", "text": "Comparative army officer ranks of the Commonwealth\n\nRank comparison chart of armies/ land forces of Commonwealth of Nations states.\n\n"}
{"id": "53981491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53981491", "title": "Comparison of single-board microcontrollers", "text": "Comparison of single-board microcontrollers\n\nComparison of Single-board microcontrollers excluding Single-board computers\n\nComparison of single-board computers\n"}
{"id": "37179886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37179886", "title": "Deutsche Kolonien und Auslandpostämpter Stempelkatalog", "text": "Deutsche Kolonien und Auslandpostämpter Stempelkatalog\n\nThe Deutsche Kolonien und Auslandpostämpter Stempelkatalog (also known by its German acronym ARGE) is a philatelic reference which describes and publishes values for the postal markings found on the stamps of the German colonies and German post offices abroad.\n"}
{"id": "32192506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32192506", "title": "East London Theatre Archive", "text": "East London Theatre Archive\n\nThe East London Theatre Archive (ELTA) is a digital theatre archive based at the University of East London, in London, England. The ELTA contains 15,000 digitised objects including images, papers, photographs and artefacts. The Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) provided £500,000 funding to support the ELTA digitisation project. \n\nThe ELTA was funded by JISC to address the lack of digital resources that covered the history of theatre and music halls in East London, UK. The digitisation project undertaken by ELTA began on 24 March 2007 and was completed on 27 February 2009. The ELTA currently (2011) holds a range of theatre related digital assets that date from 1827 to the present day.\n\n"}
{"id": "7855450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7855450", "title": "Ed Don George", "text": "Ed Don George\n\nEdward Nye \"Ed Don\" George, Jr. (June 3, 1905 – September 18, 1985) was an American professional wrestler and wrestling promoter.\n\nGeorge was born in North Java, New York. He wrestled for both St. Bonaventure University and for the University of Michigan. He also represented the United States in freestyle wrestling at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, placing 4th in his class (+87 kg.). During the years 1926-1929, Ed Don George attended the University of Michigan, with his concentration of study in engineering. Later on, in 1929, at St. Bonaventure University, he graduated with a college degree.\n\nQuick and powerful, he took on the name \"Ed Don George\" and began his professional career shortly after returning from the Olympics. He captured the AWA World Heavyweight Championship on December 10, 1930, from Gus Sonnenberg. Double-crossed by Ed \"Strangler\" Lewis in Los Angeles on April 13, 1931, George dropped the title to the Strangler, but promoter Paul Bowser maneuvered it back to George, who held it for nearly four years, finally losing it to Danno O'Mahony on June 30, 1935. George remained one of the top box office draws of the 1930s, and on April 5, 1937, defeated Al Perreira in Paris to capture the European version of the world title.\n\nIn March 1942 he joined the US Navy. There he taught hand-to-hand combat to naval air cadets. In December 1945 he left the navy with the rank of Commander.\n\nDuring the late 1940s through the 1950s he promoted numerous wrestling matches in the United States. In the mid 1950s he found himself promoting wrestling at the casinos in Havana, Cuba until Fidel Castro came to power.\n\nIn 1949, Ed Don George bought a parcel just east of North Java, New York where Camp O'Ryan was situated. He then very soon afterwards leased this land for 25 years to the Federal government, which built, in conjunction with New York State, a New York National Guard training site.\n\nEd Don George died in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida on September 18, 1985 and his body buried in the village of North Java, New York. He was inducted into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame in 1996. In 2006 he was inducted posthumously into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2330597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2330597", "title": "Errors and omissions excepted", "text": "Errors and omissions excepted\n\nErrors and omissions excepted (E&OE) is a phrase used in an attempt to reduce legal liability for potentially incorrect or incomplete information supplied in a contractually related document such as a quotation or specification.\n\nIt is often applied as a disclaimer in situations in which the information to which it is applied is relatively fast-moving. In legal terms, it seeks to make a statement that information cannot be relied upon, or may have changed by the time of use.\n\nIt is regularly used in accounting, to \"excuse slight mistakes or oversights.\"\n\nIt is also used when a large amount of information is listed against a product, to state that—to the best of the supplier's knowledge—the information is correct, but that they will not be held responsible if an error has been committed.\n"}
{"id": "55510798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55510798", "title": "European Investigative Collaborations", "text": "European Investigative Collaborations\n\nThe European Investigative Collaborations (EIC) network is a European collaborative hybrid project of transnational investigative journalism. EIC was established in the fall of 2015 with founding members, including \"Der Spiegel\", \"El Mundo\", \"Médiapart\", the Romanian Centre for Investigative Journalism (CRJI), \"Le Soir\", and launched in the winter of 2016. On March 18, 2016, after three months research, they published the results of their first joint investigation spurred on by the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, in which they revealed how in spite of security risk warnings, \"the EU’s freedom of goods policy facilitated the sale of weapons leading to [the 2015] terror attacks in Paris.\" In 2017 working with \"over 60 journalists in 14 countries\", the EIC published the Football Leaks—the \"largest leak in sports history\".\n\nThrough \"joint reporting and publication\", the EIA aims to strengthen the European transnational investigative journalism by joint reporting with the utmost transparency. They exchange documents and articles and coordinate publication, and to improve the tools used in their investigations from one investigation to another—for example in their data processing capabilities, servers, secure forums, etc.\n\n\nAt Dataharvest 2015 and other networking events, discussions related to \"establishing this European Network\" started with \"Jörg Schmitt, Jürgen Dahlkamp, Alfred Weinzierl and Klaus Brinkbäumer from \"Der Spiegel\" and Stefan Candea from the Romanian Centre for Investigative Journalism (CRJI). Stefan Candea, a founding partner explained how following the terrorist attacks, such as the November 2015 Paris attacks, journalists \"started to bounce ideas off each other.\" This led to their first collaborative transnational investigation resulting in the series \"Mapping the Weapons of Terror\". Others joined the group, including, \"Alain Lallemand from \"Le Soir\", John Hansen from \"Politiken\", Milorad Ivanovic from \"Newsweek Serbia\", Florian Klenk from \"Falter\", Paula Guisado from \"El Mundo\", Vlad Odobescu from The Romanian Centre for Investigative Journalism, Michael Bird from \"The Black Sea\", Fabrice Arfi from \"Mediapart\" and Vittorio Malagutti from \"L'Espresso\". By 2017, NRC Handelsblad in the Netherlands had joined along with dozens of European media and over forty investigative journalists.\n\nThe Black Sea, led by \"award winning journalists and photo-journalists from the Romanian Centre for Investigative Journalism (CRJI)\", is \"a web project bringing together journalists, photographers and videographers.\n\nAfter three months of research On March 18, 2016, EIC journalists published \"Mapping the Weapons of Terror\" in which they revealed how a \"shadow gun market\" in East Europe fuelled \"terrorism in the west, as criminal gangs use legal loopholes and open borders to traffic weapons.\" They revealed how in spite of security risk warnings, \"the EU’s freedom of goods policy facilitated the sale of weapons leading to [the 2015] terror attacks in Paris.\"\n\nThe EIC working with \"over 60 journalists in 14 countries\" published a \"series of articles called \"Football Leaks\"—the \"largest leak in sports history\". \"Football Leaks\" \"led to the prosecution of football superstar Cristiano Ronaldo and coach Jose Mourinho.\"\n\nIn May 2017, European Investigative Collaborations published Malta Files, an investigation into \"how the Mediterranean state works as a pirate base for tax avoidance inside the EU. Although profiting from the advantages of EU membership, Malta also welcomes large companies and wealthy private clients who try to dodge taxes in their home countries.\"\n\nAmong those included in the reports are Italian mafia figures, Russian billionaires and the families of both Turkey's president and prime minister.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29144838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29144838", "title": "Flag of Macha", "text": "Flag of Macha\n\nThe flag of Macha is the name given to a pair of flags of Argentina found at a chapel in the hamlet of Titiri, near the village of Macha, north of Potosí, Bolivia. They are considered to be the first physical flags created by Manuel Belgrano, who in November 1813 hid the standards to prevent them from falling into enemy hands. They were discovered in 1885. Bolivia kept one of those flags at Sucre; the other was given to Argentina in 1896 and is currently kept at the National Historical Museum. Tucumán Province has used it as provincial flag since 2010. The flag preserved in Argentina is a triband of blue, white and blue bands, like the modern flag of Argentina, but the one kept in Bolivia is a triband of white, blue and white.\n\nThe Flag of Argentina was created by Manuel Belgrano during the Argentine War of Independence. After concluding the Paraguay campaign, he moved to Rosario to build artilleries. While being in the village he noticed that both the royalist and patriotic forces were using the same colors, Spain's yellow and red. He requested to the First Triumvirate a new cockade, which was approved by a decree on February 18, 1812. The colours of this cockade were white and light blue. Encouraged by this success, he created a flag of the same colours nine days later. The flag was first flown, for the soldiers to swear allegiance to it, on 27 February 1812, on the \"Batería Libertad\" (Liberty Battery), by the Paraná River. Although it is known that this first flag had white and light blue colours, the design is unknown by historians, and could be either a blue-white-blue triband, or white-blue-white. Belgrano wrote a letter to the Triumvirate to inform it of the new flag, saying that \"\"...being in need to raise a flag, and not having one, I made it to be done white and light blue according to the colours of the national cockade...\"; which did not detail the actual design. Still uninformed of this, the Triumvirate dispatched Belgrano to Salta, to reinforce the Army of the North. This gave room to another unclear detail: whenever Belgrano left the physical flag in Rosario, or took it with him to the North. \n\nBelgrano dispatched a letter addressed to the First Triumvirate, informing them of the newly created flag. However, unlike with the cockade, the Triumvirate did not accept the use of the flag: the international policy at the time was to state that the government was ruling on behalf of Ferdinand VII king of Spain captive of Napoleon, whereas the creation of a flag was a clear independentist act. Thus, the triumvirate sent a warning to Belgrano not to fight under the flag, but by the time the reply had arrived, Belgrano had moved to the north, following the previous orders that requested him to strengthen the patriotic position in the Upper Peru after the defeat of Juan José Castelli at the Battle of Huaqui. Still unaware about the Triumvirate's refusal, Belgrano raised the flag at San Salvador de Jujuy and had it blessed by the local church on the second anniversary of the May Revolution. Belgrano accepted the orders from the Triumvirate by time they arrived to Salta and ended using the flag. As soldiers had already made oaths to the new flag, Belgrano said that he was saving it for the circumstance of a great victory. \n\nThe First Triumvirate was later replaced by the Second Triumvirate, with a more liberal ideology, who called the Asamblea del Año XIII. This assembly authorized to use the flag as a War flag, but not as a national one. The first oath to the newly approved flag was on February 13, 1813, next to the Salado River, which is also known since then as \"Río Juramento\"\" (\"Oath River\"). The first battle fought with the approved flag was the Battle of Salta, a decisive patriotic victory that achieved the complete defeat of royalist Pío Tristán. The army moved to the north, but was defeated at the battles of Vilcapugio and Ayohuma. After those defeats, the army retreated to the South. Fearing that the enemy armies got the flags, he left them to the care of the parish priest of Macha, which hid them behind a Saint Teresa of Avila's portrait in a chapel near the small hamlet of Titiri (). Belgrano was summoned back to Buenos Aires, and sent to Europe in diplomatic mission, and the flags was considered to be lost. \n\nThe flags were discovered many decades later, in 1885. The new priest was cleaning and restoring the chapel, and found them. The flags were moved to the \"Museum of the Independence\" in Sucre, which kept one of the flags. The other was delivered to Argentina in 1896, after a request from Argentine ambassador to Bolivia Adolfo Carranza. This last one is kept at the National Historical Museum, which works in restoring it.\n\nThe National Historical Museum started to restore the Flag in 2007, making a study of it. María Pía Tamborini and Patricia Lissa were in charge of the restoration. \n\nThe flag is made of silk, and only the 70% of it remains. It was kept under bad conditions over the years, and the silk used was not of high quality either. For this reason, the original colours could not be restored, which were indigo blue and ivory white. \n\nThe flag is kept inside a closed cabinet, at a room with low lights. It was made available to the view of the public in 2010, year of the Argentina Bicentennial.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "602456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602456", "title": "Gardening (cryptanalysis)", "text": "Gardening (cryptanalysis)\n\nIn cryptanalysis, gardening is the act of encouraging a target to use known plaintext in an encrypted message. It was a term used at the British Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, England, during World War II, for schemes to entice the Germans to include particular words, which the British called \"cribs\", in their encrypted messages. This term presumably came from RAF minelaying missions, or \"gardening\" sorties. \"Gardening\" was standard RAF slang for sowing mines in rivers, ports and oceans from low heights, possibly because each sea area around the European coasts was given a code-name of flowers or vegetables.\n\nThe technique is claimed to have been most effective against messages produced by the German Navy's Enigma machines. If the Germans had recently swept a particular area for mines, and analysts at Bletchley Park were in need of some cribs, they might (and apparently did on several occasions) request that the area be mined again. This would hopefully evoke encrypted messages from the local command mentioning \"Minen\" (German for mines) and/or the location, and perhaps messages also from the headquarters with minesweeping ships to assign to that location, mentioning the same. It worked often enough to try several times.\n\nThis crib-based decryption is an example of a chosen-plaintext attack, because plain text effectively chosen by the British was injected into the ciphertext.\n\n"}
{"id": "35259887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35259887", "title": "Getit Infoservices Private Limited", "text": "Getit Infoservices Private Limited\n\nGetit is a defunct directional media company in India. Its services included E-wallet, E-commerce, Grocery, Local search, yellow pages, white pages directories, classified media, tele-information services. It operated in 56 cities pan India. The logo of Ask me was designed Joel James, a very young designer . Getit offered services across print, voice, online and mobile platforms. Investors in the company include Malaysia based Astro All Asia Networks plc and Helion Venture Partners. The company is engaged in a bitter battle with its shareholders and debtors. There are cases in NCLT involving disputes among minority shareholders: Sanjeev Gupta (ex-MD & family) and Astro Entertainment Network Ltd. Sanjeev Gupta has been accused of not paying the salaries to the employees & dues to the debtors and sellers.\n\nGetit Infoservices Private Ltd., formerly known as Getit Infomediary Ltd. /M&N Publications Ltd., introduced http://www.yellowpages.co.in in India under the brand name Getit Yellow Pages.\n\n2017 Now it's closed\n\n"}
{"id": "2202218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2202218", "title": "Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle", "text": "Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle\n\nThe Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle (\"Great Universal Dictionary of the 19th Century\"), often called the Grand Larousse du dix-neuvième, is a French encyclopedic dictionary. It was planned, directed, published, and to a substantial degree written by Pierre Larousse, though he also relied on anonymous fellow contributors and though he died in 1875, before its completion. The publication of the \"Grand dictionnaire universel\" in 15 volumes of 1500 pages extended from 1866 to 1876. Two supplements were published in 1877 and 1890.\n\nVolumes 1-15, covering A-Z, were issued from 1866 to 1876. A supplement (Volume 16) was published in 1877, and a second supplement (Volume 17), in 1890. The Larousse firm also published further supplements in the form of a magazine called \"Revue encyclopédique\" (1891-1900) then \"Revue universelle\" (1900-1905).\n\nUnlike Émile Littré's contemporary dictionary, the \"Grand Larousse\" is primarily an encyclopedia. It is opinionated and has a distinctive and personal style.\n\nOne such instance of subjectivity appears regarding emperor Napoleon Bonaparte. For Pierre Larousse, what the Republic's general had done until the \"coup\" of 18 Brumaire was virtuous and glorious, but the \"coup\" and the subsequent rule of the consul and emperor were a tyrant's doings. Hence, the \"Grand Larousse du dix-neuvième\" had two entries: one for \"Bonaparte, Napoleon\", who, according to the article, died on the 18 Brumaire (9 November 1799); and one for \"Napoleon\" referring to the consul and emperor. Though it is true that Napoleon Bonaparte \"changed\" his name to Napoleon I, he only did so at his crowning as emperor, not after the 18 Brumaire \"coup\".\n\nThe \"Nouveau Larousse illustré\" was an illustrated encyclopedia published 1897-1904 by Éditions Larousse and edited by Claude Augé. It was essentially a scaled-down, updated and more neutral version of the \"Grand Larousse du dix-neuvième\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25757551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25757551", "title": "Historia Ecclesie Abbendonensis", "text": "Historia Ecclesie Abbendonensis\n\nThe Historia Ecclesie Abbendonensis or History of the Church of Abingdon (sometimes known by its older printed title of Chronicon Monasterii de Abingdon or occasionally as the Abingdon Chronicle) was a medieval chronicle written at Abingdon Abbey in England in the 12th century. The Abbey was historically in the county of Berkshire, but since 1974 has been in the county of Oxfordshire.\n\nThe \"Historia\" is one of a number of monastic histories written during the middle and later parts of the 12th century, when a number of monasteries produced works devoted to recording the histories of their monasteries and local areas. In the south, these included the \"Liber Eliensis\" of Ely Abbey, the \"Chronicon Abbatiae Rameseiensis\" of Ramsey Abbey, the \"Chronicon Angliae Petriburgense\" of Peterborough Abbey, a history of the see of Bath and Wells, and the \"Chronicon Monasterii de Bello\" of Battle Abbey. The northern histories produced foundation stories of the various Cistercian houses, along with other works. The southern works, including the \"Chronicon\", are mainly concerned with the various controversies that their religious houses were involved in. The northern histories are less concerned with controversy, and overall are more prone to hagiography.\n\nThe History of the Church of Abingdon was written by an anonymous author, probably a monk of the Abbey. The History covers approximately 400 years, from the time of King Ine of Wessex (to whom the first charter in the History is dated in 699) to the end of the reign of King Stephen in 1154.\n\nLittle is known of the author of the document, other than that he was a monk of the Abbey and that he had entered by 1117. According to Sir Frank Stenton, this timing is suggested by the presence of certain passages that are apparently contemporary with Abbot Faritius, who died that year, and is referred to several times in the first person by the author: “Moreover, we were without an Abbot for four years” and, again concerning Faritius, “we saw him buy more than sixty silk cloths”. Hudson, however, infers that the text may have been revised in the 1160s.\n\nWhilst the earliest surviving text of the History is the Cotton Claudius C IX in the British Library, it has been suggested by Stenton and John Hudson that the author drew upon previously extant works, notably the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, Wulfstan’s Life of St. Æthelwold and possibly a now-lost Book of Commemorations. The Chronicle of John of Worcester was also apparently used; Hudson states “An Abingdon manuscript of John of Worcester, in the same hand as the History, does survive”.\n\nA particular concern in the \"Historia\" is the legendary foundation of the abbey, and the author stressed the fact that the abbey was founded much earlier than its refoundation by Æthelwold in the 10th century. He based his account in the \"Historia\" on Geoffrey of Monmouth's work \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", tracing the first foundation of Abingdon to an Irish monk supposedly named Abbennus, who founded the abbey on the Mount of Abbennus in Berkshire. Other sources besides Geoffrey of Monmouth included Ælfric's \"Vita Sancti Æthelwoldi\". Also included was a list of the abbey's relics that had originally been compiled by Abbot Faricius.\n\nHowever, up until the Norman conquest, the History is primarily concerned with charters and land documents; indeed, Gransden has described it as “little more than an inflated cartulary” . There are rare narrative sections concerning major events, presumably drawn from various chronicles, as mentioned above.\n\nOne important part of the \"Historia\" is the description of the collapse of one of the abbey church's towers in 1091. The chronicle records that the monks were celebrating matins, which would normally have been done in the abbey church, but on this occasion, the prior had decided to have the office celebrated in the chapter house instead, which allowed all the monks to escape the collapse unharmed.\n\nThe Author, although unknown, displays certain partisan opinions of some events. Presumably a monk of English descent (as he could read the Old English of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle), he displays a certain hostility to the Danes but not a particularly hostile one towards Normans in general, except to those who cause the Abbey to suffer, such as the “Imperious Queen” Matilda. In general, as might be expected, he is hostile to all who oppose the Abbey.\n\nThe history, in its recording of the various land disputes of concern to the Abbey, refers numerous times to Charters or “land-books” . These were the basis by which land was granted to the Abbey or another individual, usually confirmed by the King in front of witnesses. The volume of witnesses at two of King Edward’s Charters in 1052 (Earls Harold, Leofric and Siward, and four bishops) concerning four hides at Sandford and five hides at Chilton respectively, bears out the importance of witnesses, and also the likelihood of a Royal Court where the charters were signed and witnessed.\n\nThere was a practice of leasing land to laymen for “two or three generations”. The Abbey often experienced difficulties in reclaiming such lands. The History points out that during King Edward’s reign this “custom got out of control, to considerable future damage”. This is perhaps an allusion to the problems that the Abbey faced when it came to trying to recover Abbey land from later Norman settlers.\n\nThere is one explicit example of \"an Assembly of high-ranking men\" possibly analogous to the land-court of the Abbot after the Norman Conquest.\n\nThe power of the Abbey is highlighted in certain episodes, such as “the Earl Harold’s favour that the Abbot enjoyed in this matter” and the importance of Abbot Ealdred making oaths of loyalty to King William in 1066. The wealth of the Church is inferred by various episodes of looting that went on immediately following the Conquest, one, notably by William’s Queen and by the calculation of its holding of 624½ hides in 1066 by Holister. By 1086 this had fallen to 425 / hides. For instance, the Abbot was unable to recover lands seized by Henry de Ferrers in the wake of the Conquest.\n\nFrom the History one can discern evidence of a strong English monarchy prior to 1066, with a recognised legal system of charters for land. The diversity of witnesses to the charters bears evidence to a royal court, where magnates from around the country gathered at certain times. The wealth and power of the abbey, and its role in temporal affairs is prominent. Nor is the church afraid to use ecclesiastical powers to get its way, as in the excommunication of Brithwine who had argued with the abbey over land in the 1050s. Equally, however, whilst the charters frequently feature colourful religious threats against breakers of the charter, there is no temporal threat or enforcement. “If anyone brings forth into the open any document previously drawn up with the ink of false greed against this one drawn up above, let it profit neither him nor his avarice, but pierced in perpetuity by a divine sword” from a charter of Æthelred II.\n\nImmediately following the Conquest in 1066, it is inferred that there was a period of disorder, during which the abbey was looted and “devastation was dispensed indiscriminately throughout the villages”. One might safely presume, therefore that such disorder was more unusual under the Anglo-Saxons.\n\nThe \"Historia\" has been published in two editions. One, titled \"Chronicon Monasterii de Abingdon\" and containing just the Latin text, was edited by Joseph Stevenson in two volumes and published by the Rolls Series, London in 1858. A newer edition, with a translation, has appeared in two volumes, edited by John Hudson and published by Oxford University Press under their Oxford Medieval Texts series. The second volume appeared first in print, published in 2002. The first volume was published in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "31525687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31525687", "title": "Honkaku Mystery Best 10", "text": "Honkaku Mystery Best 10\n\n\"2001 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2000)\n\n\"2002 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2001)\n\n\"2003 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2002)\n\n\"2004 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2003)\n\n\"2005 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2004)\n\n\"2006 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2005)\n\n\"2007 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2006)\n\n\"2008 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2007)\n\n\"2009 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2008)\n\n\"2010 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2009)\n\n\"2011 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2010)\n\n\"2012 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2011)\n\n\"2013 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2012)\n\n\"2014 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2013)\n\n\"2015 Honkaku Mystery Best 10\" (Hara Shobo. December, 2014)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44380310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44380310", "title": "King Siliwangi", "text": "King Siliwangi\n\nKing Siliwangi or Prabu Siliwangi (Sundanese: ) was a semi-legendary great king of the Hindu Sunda kingdom prior to the coming of Islam in West Java. \n\nHe is a popular character in \"Pantun Sunda\" oral tradition, folklores and tales that describe his reign as a glorious era for the Sundanese people. According to tradition he brought his kingdom greatness and prosperity.\n\nThe character of King Siliwangi is semi-mythology since in Sundanese oral tradition simply identify the great king of Sunda as \"King Siliwangi\" regardless the era or historical periods. It is difficult to identify the exact historical character that represented in the legend of King Siliwangi. As the result the tale of this king spanned and vary greatly from the mythical era of Sundanese gods to the coming of Islam in the land of Sunda and the fall of the kingdom. \n\nSeveral historic Sundanese kings are suggested as the real character inspired the legend of King Siliwangi. Most popular interpretation linked King Siliwangi with Sri Baduga Maharaja, while other suggested that the legend might be inspired by Niskala Wastu Kancana instead.\n\nA linguistical theory suggests that Siliwangi is derived from the Sundanese words of \"Silih Wangi\", meaning a descendant of King Wangi.\n\nAccording to Kidung Sunda and Carita Parahyangan, King Wangi is identified as King Lingga Buana, a king of Sunda that died at Majapahit in 1357 AD in the Battle of Bubat. Hayam Wuruk, the Majapahit king, intended to marry Dyah Pitaloka Citraresmi, a daughter of King Lingga Buana. The Sunda royal family came to Majapahit to marry the princess to Hayam Wuruk. However, Gajah Mada, prime minister of the Majapahit Empire, saw this event as an opportunity to demand Sunda's submission to Majapahit. He demanded that the princess not be treated as the queen of Majapahit, but merely as a concubine, as a sign of Sunda's submission. Angered by Gajah Mada's insult, the Sunda royal family fought the overwhelming Majapahit forces to the death to defend their honor. After his death, King Lingga Buana was named King \"Wangi\" (king with a pleasant fragrance) because of his heroic deed to defend his kingdom's honor. \n\nHis descendants with the same quality of greatness were called \"Silihwangi\" (successor of Wangi). After the reign of King Wangi (Prebu Maharaja), Kingdom of Sunda saw seven consecutive successor kings, technically all of them are considered as the successor of Wangi (Silihwangi).\n\nSome other historians are of the opinion that Siliwangi is derived from the Sundanese word \"Asilih Wewangi\", meaning changing title.\n\nOne of the stories tells about prince Jayadewata, the son of Prabu Anggalarang, king of Galuh, who ruled from Surawisesa Palace in Kawali). Prince Jayadewata also known as Ratu Purana Prebu Guru Dewataprana. During his youth the prince was known as \"Raden Pamanah Rasa\" (the archer of feelings of love). The name suggests that he was a charming and strikingly handsome young man. People easily fell in love with him. The tradition says he was a master of literature, music, dance, and the arts, as well as pencak silat martial arts and the princely arts of sword fighting and archery.\n\nAn usurper of evil ambition overthrows King Anggalarang and murders him, taking over the throne. The prince Jayadewata is poisoned, drugged, and cast under a black magic spell that caused him to suffer amnesia and insanity. The powerful but insane prince wandered around and caused trouble in many villages, until Ki Gedeng Sindangkasih, the chief of Sindangkasih village, managed to pacifize him. With the love of Nyi Ambetkasih, Ki Gedeng's daughter, the prince is finally cured from his illness. Prince Jayadewata married Nyi Ambetkasih. Later, prince Jayadewata managed to gain support of the people and succeeded in reclaiming his rightful throne.\n\nBesides Ambetkasih, King Siliwangi had other wives, Nyai Subang Larang, Nyai Cantring Manikmayang, and Nyai Aciputih. Nyai Subang Larang was the daughter of Ki Gedeng Tapa, port master of Muara Jati (today Cirebon). Nyai Cantring Manikmayang was a princess from a noble family in Galuh. While Nyai Aciputih was the daughter of Ki Dampu Awang, a rich Muslim Chinese merchant.\n\nNyai Subang Larang was a Muslim woman and a student of the Quro Islamic school in Karawang, and she bore him three children: prince Walangsungsang, princess Rara Santang, and prince Kian Santang. Walangsungsang, later known as Cakrabuana, was the founder of the Sultanate of Cirebon. Rara Santang married a Muslim Egyptian prince and changed her name to Syarifah Mudaim, while Kian Santang become a famous Muslim ulama in western Java. The legend of King Siliwangi's Muslim children from Subang Larang explains the change from Hinduism to Islam around the time of the fall of Sunda kingdom. Queen Ambetkasih was childless, and the heir of the throne was the son of Nyai Cantring Manikmayang.\n\nTraditions associated King Siliwangi with the mythical tiger and sometimes the black and white leopard, as his guard. According to legends after the Sultanates of Cirebon and Banten sacked the capital of Pakuan Pajajaran, the king refused to convert to Islam, yet he also refused to fight the invading Muslim forces, since the Sultan of Cirebon was his own kin. Tradition tells that after the fall of Pakuan, the last king of Sunda, accompanied by his faithful followers, retreated to Mount Salak located south of the capital to avoid further bloodshed. Then the king is \"ngahyang\" (he disappeared) to become a hyang or spirit. He turned into a mythical beast, the sacred tiger. Tradition mentioned that the King disappeared in Sancang forest, near the southern sea far south in Garut Regency.\n\nBy the 17th century, the city of Pakuan Pajajaran has been reclaimed by tropical rainforest, and invested by tiger. The first Dutch expedition into inland West Java was led in 1687 by Pieter Scipio Van Oostende. He led his team to explore deep south from Batavia into the remnant of Pakuan and ended on Wijnkoopsbaai (present-day Palabuhanratu). One of the members of his expedition team was mauled by a tiger in the area, two days earlier. Scipio learned from Lieutenant Tanuwijaya's men from Sumedang that the ruins were the remnants of Pakuan or Pajajaran kingdom. On 23 December 1687, Governor-General Joanes Camphuijs wrote a report; \"that the hilted palace and the special exalted silver tablets of the Javanese King of Pajajaran, guarded by a large number of tigers.\" The report on the tiger sightings also comes from the residents of Kedung Halang and Parung Angsana who accompanied Scipio on this expedition. Perhaps this was the source of the popular beliefs that the Pajajaran king, nobles and guards were transformed into mythical tigers.\n\nThe compiled legends of King Siliwangi do not always correspond with historical facts and records, since some events are vague and do not correspond to the lifetime of the historic Sri Baduga Maharaja. For example, the fall of Pajajaran occur in later times, during the reign of later Sunda kings, the great-great grandson of Sri Baduga. Some legends seem to simply identify the series of last Sunda kings as Siliwangi. However these legends try to explain the historical events of the Sunda kingdom and its relationship with the Sultanates of Cirebon and Banten.\n\nThe legend of King Siliwangi has been around and popularly known in Sundanese oral tradition of \"Carita Pantun\" as early as 1518 CE. It was the era of King Jayadewata's reign. Ayatrohaedi, a Sundanese historian argued that it took years for a historical character to gain a revered legendary status, featured in tales and folklores. Thus, it is highly unlikely for a living and ruling character, like Jayadewata, to be revered as such in circulating \"pantun\" poetic verses. He suggested that the real historic character should be the predecessor of Jayadewata, and pointed out that King Niskala Wastu Kancana was most likely the real historic character behind the legend of King Siliwangi.\nBy the earliest time the legend of King Siliwangi appear, Niskala Wastu Kancana had passed away for about 40 years. So it is reasonable that the cult or veneration of this late king has appeared by this time. In Sundanese ancient tradition of Hinduism mixed with native ancestral worship, a passed away ancestor of great character, is believed had gain a god-like power in the afterlife, and even might be invoked to protect, lend help and interfere with their descendant's affairs.\n\nNiskala Wastu Kancana ruled for 104 years, between 1371–1475. His reign is remembered as a long era of peace and prosperity. It is possible that his long lasting reign were fondly remembered by his people as a golden age, thus started a cult or veneration years after his death, and inspired the \"pantun\" poetic verses.\n\nAccording to \"Purwaka Caruban Nagari\", the chronicle of Cirebon, the Sunda King Siliwangi married to Nyai Subang Larang, daughter of Ki Gedeng Tapa, port master of Muara Jati, which corresponds with the port of Cirebon. They had three children; Prince Walangsungsang born in 1423, Princess Rara Santang born in 1426, and Prince Kian Santang (Raden Sangara) born in 1428. Although Prince Walangsungsang was the first-born son of Sunda King, the prince did not earned the right as a crown prince of Sunda Kingdom. This was because his mother, Nyai Subang Larang was not the \"prameswari\" (queen consort). Another reason was probably because of his conversion to Islam, probably influenced by his mother, Subang Larang whom was a Muslim woman. In 16th century West Java, the state's religion was Hinduism, Sunda Wiwitan (Sundanese ancestral religion) and Buddhism. It was his half brother, King Siliwangi's son from his third wife Nyai Cantring Manikmayang, who was chosen as crown prince.\n\nNingrat Kancana is also known as Prabu Dewa Niskala. The character described in Cirebon Chronicle \"Purwaka Caruban Nagari\", as King Siliwangi, both timeline and storyline, matched the historic character of Dewa Niskala or Ningrat Kancana, referred as \"Tohaan di Galuh\" (Lord of Galuh) in Carita Parahyangan. Tohaan di Galuh was the son and heir of Niskala Wastu Kancana. Ningrat Kancana however, reigned for only seven years and subsequently demoted. Carita Parahyangan tell that \"... kena salah twa(h) bogo(h) ka estri larangan ti kaluaran ..,\" which translate as \"because (his) wrongdoing, fell in love with a forbidden outsider woman.\" The term \"outsider woman\" is interesting and has led to various proposition; could it be the new king fell in love with a foreigner, outsider, non-Sundanese \n(possibly Javanese), or even non-Hindu (Muslim) woman. It is possible that the outsider forbidden woman mentioned here was Nyai Subang Larang, a Muslim woman daughter of port master of Muara Jati (Cirebon).\n\nSome historians suggest that this legendary King can be identified with an actual historical figure Sri Baduga Maharaja or King Jayadewata, as mentioned in Batutulis inscription, he is the son of Rahyang Niskala and the grandson of Rahyang Niskala Wastu Kancana. Indeed, King Jayadewata is the most widely believed as the real historical character behind the legend of King Siliwangi. In \"pantun\" oral tradition, King Siliwangi often referred as Raden Pamanah Rasa or Ratu Jayadewata, which is the other name of Sri Baduga Maharaja.\n\nOne of the \"Pantun\" legends tells vividly about a beautiful royal procession of queen Ambetkasih and her courtiers moving to the new capital of Pakuan Pajajaran, where her husband, King Siliwangi awaits. The character described as King Siliwangi in this verse matched perfectly with the real historic person of King Jayadewata, since he was the king that moved the capital city from Kawali to Pakuan Pajajaran in 1482.\n\nAnother popular tale of King Siliwangi, is suggesting that he was the last king of Sunda Kingdom. Tradition tells that after the fall of Pakuan, the last king of Sunda, accompanied by a few of his faithful followers, retreated into highland wilderness of Mount Salak located south of the capital to avoid further bloodshed. It was said that the king retreated instead, to avoid fighting his own kin, since the invading forces of Sultanate Banten and Cirebon were actually his extended relatives. Then the king is \"ngahyang\" (he disappeared) to become a hyang or spirit. He turned into a mythical beast, the sacred tiger.\n\nThe King Siliwangi mentioned in this tale, matched the real historic character of King Nilakendra or Tohaan di Majaya of Pakuan. It was during his reign that Sunda capital of Dayeuh Pakuan Pajajaran were captured by Sultan Hasanuddin of Banten. Around 1550s Hasanuddin, sultan of Banten has launched a successful attack to Dayeuh Pakuan, captured and razed the capital. The surviving Sunda royalties, nobles and common people fled the fallen city, heading to mountainous wilderness. To disable the authority of Sunda royal institution, Sultan of Banten seize the sacred stone of \"Palangka Sriman Sriwacana\", and took it as a prized plunder to his capital, the port city of Banten. According to tradition, this sacred stone slab is an essential requirement for enthronement ceremony, thus disabling the surviving house of Sunda royals to properly crowned their new king.\n\nThrough the transmission Pantun Sunda oral tradition, the Sri Baduga's reign is remembered as the peaceful and prosperous golden age in Sundanese history, as the cultural identity and the source of pride for Sundanese people. The kings of Sultanate of Cirebon still trace their ancestry to Sundanese King Siliwangi, it was probably served as the source of legitimacy of their reign in West Java. The TNI Siliwangi Military Division and Siliwangi Stadium was named after King Siliwangi, the eponymous popular king of Sunda corresponded to Sri Baduga Maharaja. His name is honored as the name of West Java province museum, Sri Baduga Museum in Bandung. Balinese Hindus built a \"candi\" shrine dedicated to King Siliwangi in the Hindu temple Pura Parahyangan Agung Jagatkarta, Bogor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24156703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24156703", "title": "List of Shuowen Jiezi radicals", "text": "List of Shuowen Jiezi radicals\n\nThe list of \"Shuowen Jiezi\" radicals consists of the 540 radicals used to structure the \"Shuowen Jiezi\", created by lexicographer Xu Shen. The 540 radicals are shown below.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "797222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797222", "title": "MHRA Style Guide", "text": "MHRA Style Guide\n\nThe MHRA Style Guide: A Handbook for Authors, Editors, and Writers of Theses (formerly the MHRA Style Book) is an academic style guide published by the Modern Humanities Research Association and most widely used in the arts and humanities in the United Kingdom, where the MHRA is based. It is available for sale both in the UK and in the United States.\n\nThe 3rd edition (updated 2013) can be downloaded free from the MHRA's official website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104916", "title": "Man on the Moon (film)", "text": "Man on the Moon (film)\n\nMan on the Moon is a 1999 American biographical comedy-drama film about the late American entertainer Andy Kaufman, starring Jim Carrey as Kaufman. The film was directed by Miloš Forman and also features Danny DeVito, Courtney Love, and Paul Giamatti.\n\nThe story traces Kaufman's steps from childhood through the comedy clubs and television appearances that made him famous, including his memorable appearances on \"Saturday Night Live\", \"Late Night with David Letterman\", \"Fridays\", and his role as Latka Gravas on the sitcom \"Taxi\", which was popular among viewers but disruptive for Kaufman's co-stars. The film pays particular attention to the various inside jokes, scams, put-ons, and happenings for which Kaufman was famous, most significantly his long-running feud with wrestler Jerry \"The King\" Lawler and his portrayal of the bawdy lounge singer Tony Clifton.\n\nAlthough the film was unsuccessful commercially and received mixed reviews, Carrey received critical acclaim for his performance and won a Golden Globe, his second in a row after his award for \"The Truman Show\". His nomination was in the Musical/Comedy category.\n\nThe documentary \"\" was released in 2017 and chronicles Carrey's performance as Kaufman in the film, a performance he maintained during much of the film's production.\n\nAndy Kaufman is a struggling performer whose act fails in nightclubs because, while the audience wants comedy, he sings children's songs and refuses to tell conventional jokes. As the audience begins to believe that Kaufman may have no real talent, his previously timid \"foreign man\" character puts on a rhinestone jacket and does a dead-on Elvis impersonation. The audience bursts into applause, realizing Kaufman had tricked them.\n\nHe catches the eye of talent agent George Shapiro, who signs Kaufman as a client and immediately lands him a network TV series, \"Taxi\", much to Kaufman's dismay, since he dislikes sitcoms. Because of the money, visibility, and a promise that he can do his own television special, Kaufman accepts the role, turning his foreign man into a mechanic named Latka Gravas. Secretly he hates doing the show and expresses a desire to quit.\n\nInvited to catch a different act at a nightclub, Shapiro witnesses a performance by a rude, loud-mouthed lounge singer, Tony Clifton, whom Kaufman wants to guest-star on \"Taxi\". Clifton's bad attitude is matched by his horrible appearance and demeanor. But backstage, when he meets Shapiro in person, Clifton takes off his sunglasses and reveals that he is actually Kaufman. Clifton is a \"villain character\" created by Kaufman and his creative partner, Bob Zmuda. Once again, the gag is on the audience.\n\nKaufman's profile increases with appearances on \"Saturday Night Live\", but he has problems with his newfound fame. When performing live, audiences dislike his strange anti-humor and demand that he perform as Latka. At one show, he deliberately antagonizes attendees by reading \"The Great Gatsby\" aloud from start to finish. Kaufman shows up on the \"Taxi\" set as Clifton and proceeds to cause chaos until he is removed from the studio lot. He relates to Shapiro that he never knows exactly how to entertain an audience \"short of faking my own death or setting the theater on fire.\"\n\nKaufman decides to become a professional wrestler — but to emphasize the \"villain\" angle, he will wrestle only women (hired actresses) and then berate them after winning, declaring himself \"Inter-Gender Wrestling Champion.\" He becomes smitten with one woman he wrestles, Lynne Margulies, and they begin a romantic relationship.\n\nProblems arise when an appearance on a live TV comedy show, ABC's \"Fridays\", turns into a fiasco when Kaufman refuses to speak his lines. Also Kaufman feuds publicly with Jerry Lawler, a male professional wrestler, who challenges him to a \"real wrestling match\", which Kaufman accepts. Lawler easily overpowers and appears to seriously injure Kaufman. Lawler and an injured Kaufman (wearing a neck brace) appear on NBC's \"Late Night with David Letterman\", ostensibly to call a truce, but Lawler insults Kaufman, who throws coffee at the wrestler and spews a vicious tirade of epithets. It is later revealed that Kaufman and Lawler were in fact good friends and staged the entire feud, but Kaufman pays a price when he is banned from \"Saturday Night Live\" by a vote of audience members, weary of his wrestling antics. Shapiro advises Kaufman and Lawler not to work together again, and later calls Kaufman to inform him that \"Taxi\" has been canceled.\n\nAfter a show at a comedy club, Kaufman calls together Lynne, Zmuda, and Shapiro to disclose that he has been diagnosed with a rare form of lung cancer and may die soon. They aren't sure whether to believe this, thinking it could be yet another stunt, with Zmuda actually believing a fake death would be a fantastic prank. With little time to live, Kaufman gets a booking at Carnegie Hall, his dream venue. The performance is a memorable success, culminating with Kaufman inviting the entire audience out for milk and cookies. His health deteriorates. Desperate, he heads to the Philippines to seek a medical miracle through psychic surgery only to find it a hoax, laughing at the irony. He dies soon after. At his funeral, friends and loved ones sing along to \"This Friendly World\" with a video of Kaufman.\n\nOne year later, in 1985, Clifton appears at Kaufman's tribute at The Comedy Store's main stage, performing \"I Will Survive\". The camera pans over the crowd and reveals Zmuda in the audience.\n\nSeveral members of the cast of \"Taxi\", including Marilu Henner, Judd Hirsch, Christopher Lloyd, Carol Kane, and Jeff Conaway make cameo appearances in the film, playing themselves. Danny DeVito, who was also in the cast of \"Taxi\", co-starred in the film and did not appear as himself.\n\nMany of Kaufman's other real-life friends and co-stars also appear in the film (although not all as themselves), including Zmuda, Shapiro, Margulies, David Letterman, Paul Shaffer, professional wrestler Jerry Lawler, TV personality Lance Russell, \"The Improv\" founder Budd Friedman, \"Saturday Night Live\" creator Lorne Michaels, and actors Vincent Schiavelli and Chad Whitson. Michael Richards is played by Norm Macdonald in a recreation of the \"Fridays\" show skit. According to Jerry Lawler's autobiography \"It's Good to be the King ... sometimes\", WCW wrestler Glenn Gilbertti, better known to wrestling fans as Disco Inferno, was considered for the role of Lawler.\n\n\"Man on the Moon\" was shot in Los Angeles in the winter of 1998. According to Courtney Love, Jim Carrey, when playing Kaufman's Tony Clifton character in the film, would stuff his clothing with Limburger cheese on the set, something Kaufman had done in his performances of the character.\n\nA documentary, \"\", that chronicles the production of the film using behind the scenes footage was released in November 2017.\n\nThe soundtrack for the film was written by rock band R.E.M., whose 1992 song \"Man on the Moon\" (originally written in honor of Kaufman) gave the film its title. The soundtrack also included the Grammy-nominated song \"The Great Beyond\", which remains the band's highest-charting single in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe film makes a few changes to Kaufman's life story. As Kaufman (played by Carrey) explains in the prologue, \"All the most important things in my life are changed around and mixed up for dramatic purposes.\"\n\nThe famous Carnegie Hall \"milk and cookies\" performance, portrayed in the film as one of his last performances after being diagnosed with cancer, had in fact occurred in 1979, five years before Kaufman's death and well before his diagnosis. Also, the film is deliberately ambiguous over whether Kaufman actually died or if his death was a hoax as some fans believe.\n\nThe film implies that Carol Kane was a member of the \"Taxi\" cast during the show's first season, which in real life was 1978–79. In actuality, Kane did not make her first appearance on the series until the episode \"Guess Who's Coming for Brefnish\", which first aired on ABC in January 1980 during the show's second season. The film implies that \"Taxi\" was canceled only once. However, the show went on for one more season on NBC.\n\nOther inaccuracies include scenes based around \"SNL\", specifically the first episode's host. Also, the scene where Lorne Michaels asks the home viewing audience to vote Kaufman off the show happened in 1982, two years after Michaels left the show as executive producer and Dick Ebersol took over.\n\nAfter its release, the film attracted some criticism over various events in Kaufman's life that were left out. Max Allan Collins maintained that the filmmakers did not understand Kaufman, and that the film \"does not give Kaufman the credit for his genius, that he had a complete intellectual grasp of what he was up to and a showman's instincts for how to play an audience.\" Significantly, these critics included Kaufman's own father Stanley, who was displeased that little of Andy's early life (before show business) and early career was portrayed.\n\nSam Simon, executive producer on \"Taxi\", stated in a 2013 interview with Marc Maron for the \"WTF with Marc Maron\" podcast that the portrayal of Andy on the show was \"a complete fiction,\" that Kaufman was \"completely professional\" and that he \"told you Tony Clifton was him.\" Simon also stated that sources for these stories were mostly from Bob Zmuda and a \"little bit of press and hype,\" but conceded that Kaufman would have \"loved\" Zmuda's version of events.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 63% based on 118 reviews, with an average rating of 6.2/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Jim Carrey is eerily dead-on in his portrayal of Andy Kaufman, which helps to elevate \"Man on the Moon\" above the script's formulaic biopic cliches.\" On Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned a score of 58 out of 100, based on 34 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nRoger Ebert wrote for the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"What is most wonderful about \"Man on the Moon,\" a very good film, is that it remains true to Kaufman's stubborn vision. Oh, it brightens things up a little [...] But essentially it stays true to his persona: A guy who would test you, fool you, lie to you, deceive you and stage elaborate deceptions, put-ons and hoaxes.\"\n\n\"Man on the Moon\" ended a string of Jim Carrey films that had very successful opening weekends, and grossed just $47 million against a budget of $82 million. Although the film received mixed reviews from critics, they were near unanimous in their praise for Jim Carrey's portrayal of Andy Kaufman. Carrey won a Golden Globe for his performance, and the film was nominated for Best Musical or Comedy as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "24849350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24849350", "title": "Meyers Blitz-Lexikon", "text": "Meyers Blitz-Lexikon\n\nMeyers Blitz-Lexikon is a German print encyclopedia, now in the public domain. It was a concise single-volume version of the long-established \"Meyers Lexicon\". The name refers to the need for very rapid (Blitz = \"Lightning\") information. It was published to accompany the 15-volume version of the 7th edition of Meyers Lexicon. By limiting the explanations to a few keywords and making heavy use of abbreviations, a large number of entries were compressed into the single portable volume. Even complex topics were explained in just a few sentences. The volume contained eight plates, 2,481 illustrations in the text and 71 coloured panels, forming a 759-page lexicon with over 45,000 entries.\n"}
{"id": "1341082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1341082", "title": "Michael Lee-Chin", "text": "Michael Lee-Chin\n\nMichael Lee-Chin (born 3 January 1951) is a Jamaican-Canadian business magnate, investor, and philanthropist who serves as the Chairman and CEO of Portland Holdings Inc., a privately-held investment holding company headquartered in Ontario, Canada. He has a net worth of as of March 2018, making him the 20th richest man in Canada.\n\nMichael Lee-Chin was appointed to the Order of Ontario in 2017. The Order of Ontario is the province’s highest honour. An Ontarian who has shown outstanding qualities of individual excellence and achievement in any field.\n\nIn 2016 Michael Lee-Chin was appointed chairman of the government of Jamaica’s Economic Growth Council (EGC)\n\nLee-Chin has made several large pledges and/or donations in Canada to the Royal Ontario Museum in 2003, the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, McMaster University and the Joseph Brant Hospital Foundation. Lee-Chin served as chancellor of Wilfrid Laurier University.\n\nMichael Lee-Chin was born in Port Antonio, Jamaica, in 1951 to Aston Lee and Hyacinth Gloria Chen. Both his parents were biracial African and Chinese-Jamaican. When Lee-Chin was aged seven, his mother married Vincent Chen. Chen had a son from a previous relationship, and the couple had a further seven children together, six boys and one girl. Lee-Chin's mother sold Avon products, and worked as a bookkeeper for various local firms, while his stepfather ran a local grocery store.\n\nHe attended the local high school, Titchfield High, between 1962 and 1969.\n\nIn 1965, Lee-Chin's first job came working as part of the landscaping team at the Frenchman's Cove Hotel. The next year, he got a summer job working on the \"Jamaica Queen\" cruise ship, cleaning the engine room.\n\nIn 1970, he went to Canada on a scholarship program sponsored by the Jamaican government to study Civil Engineering at McMaster University, and graduated in 1974.\nHe financed his first year at university on his own but after that was able to attend on scholarship.\n\nAfter graduating from McMaster, Lee-Chin worked briefly as a road engineer for the Jamaican government,\nbut unable to find work in his qualified field (and allegedly, because his Canadian wife did not like living in Jamaica), he returned to Canada where he began graduate studies in business. At first he worked as a bouncer, but later found employment as a financial advisor for Investors Group.\n\nLee-Chin spent two years at the Investors Group, in the Hamilton, Ontario office and in 1979, moved to Regal Capital Planners and became regional manager. While at the company, in 1983, he secured a loan from the Continental Bank of Canada for C$500,000 to purchase a stake in Mackenzie Financial Group and formed Kicks Athletics with Andrew Gayle. By 1987, the investment was worth C$3.5 million.\n\nIn 1987, Lee-Chin took the proceeds from his Mackenzie investment to buy a Kitchener-based company called the Advantage Investment Council (a division of AIC Limited) for $200,000. At the time, the company had holdings of around C$800,000. He renamed the company AIC, and developed it to a fund that today controls around C$6 Billion, with hundreds of thousands of investors. Following the acquisition of AIC Limited, Lee-Chin set up the Berkshire group of companies – comprising an investment planning arm, a securities dealership and an insurance operation. By 2007, Berkshire amassed more than C$12 billion of assets under administration. In 2007, Manulife acquired Berkshire from Portland Holdings in exchange for shares, making Portland one of the largest shareholders of Manulife.\n\nIn 2009, Lee-Chin sold AIC Limited to Manulife for an undisclosed amount. The following year, Manulife rebranded the heritage AIC funds and eliminated the AIC name from the mutual fund line-up.\n\nIn addition to being the founder and Chairman of Portland Holdings Inc., Mr. Lee-Chin is Chairman and Director of Mandeville Holdings Inc. and Executive Chairman, CEO, and Portfolio Manager of Portland Investment Counsel Inc.\n\nIn the late 1980s, AIC suffered from a collapse in the real estate market, in which it had invested. It recovered throughout the early 1990s by maintaining investments in large groups, such as Merrill Lynch and TD bank (formerly Toronto Dominion). This caused investments to grow from US$8 million in 1990 to nearly US$8 billion by 1998.\n\nLee-Chin was reluctant to invest in the dotcom boom, and saw AIC investments lose 8 per cent in value, even as the S&P gained 56 per cent. Investors moved US$224 million out of AIC's flagship \"Advantage Mutual Fund\". \"The Globe and Mail\" ran an article predicting even more investors to leave the fund, meaning that they would run out of cash and be forced to sell its core holdings. Lee-Chin's response was to sell stock in Coca-Cola, and invest US$65 million into Mackenzie Holdings (the same firm in which he had invested US$400,000 16 years previously). Letters were sent to all 350,000 investors, explaining the strategy. The investors were calmed by the purchase, and the stock was later sold to Investor Group (the same company Lee-Chin had worked for in the 1980s) at more than twice the price AIC had paid for it. In 2000 and 2001, following the dotcom crash, AIC outperformed the market with 26 per cent growth and 4 per cent decline respectively.\n\nIn November 2003, AIC was part of a regulatory investigation involving 105 Canadian mutual funds companies. In its review of AIC, investigators found no evidence of late trading and market timing activity by AIC staff. However, the Ontario Securities Commission (OSC) did find that over the 1999-2003 period, AIC permitted specific third party investors to engage in market timing trades in AIC Funds that generated profits of $127 million. In the Settlement Agreement between AIC and the OSC, the OSC stated that \"Accordingly, the conduct of AIC in failing to protect fully the best interests of the Relevant Funds in respect of the frequent trading market timing was contrary to the public interest.\" As a result, in December 2004, AIC Limited was forced to return CAD $58.8 million to affected investors, which was the largest penalty imposed on any of the fund companies in the OSC investigation.\n\nOn 5 October 2006, Lee-Chin announced his resignation as CEO of AIC, to be replaced by Jonathan Wellum, AIC's chief investment officer.\n\nIn 2005, two investment product managers offering structured products joined the Portland Holdings portfolio, Copernican Capital Corporation has offered retail investment products, primarily sold by brokers, and has raised more than C$800 million, in 10 closed end funds since its launch. Markland Street Asset Management, which launched the Oil Sands Sector Fund, raised C$430 million in one of Canada's largest closed-end IPOs.\n\nIn 1974, he married Vera Lee-Chin, a Ukrainian Canadian whom he had met at university. They parted in 1991, and officially separated (though did not divorce) in 1997. Ms. Lee-Chin has since contested the terms of the separation agreement, claiming that Lee-Chin did not disclose his actual wealth at the time of the separation. The couple had three children, Michael Jr., Paul, and Adrian.\n\nLee-Chin now lives with Sonya Hamilton, with whom he has fraternal-twin daughters, Elizabeth and Maria, near Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nIn 2003, he made headlines when he pledged to donate $30 million to the Royal Ontario Museum (ROM) of which a third had been paid as of 2015. He also provided a $10 million gift to the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. The gift established the Michael Lee-Chin Family Institute for Corporate Citizenship at the Rotman School of Management, University of Toronto. The Lee-Chin Institute's purpose is to help current and future business leaders integrate corporate citizenship into business strategy and practices. (http://www.rotman.utoronto.ca/lee-chininstitute)\n\nIn September 2014, Lee-Chin and his family donated $10 million to the Joseph Brant Hospital Foundation.\n\nMichael Lee-Chin and family received the 2015 Association of Fundraising Professionals’ (Golden Horseshoe Chapter) National Philanthropy Award in the category of Outstanding Philanthropist\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, Jamaica went through a period of financial crisis.\nLee-Chin saw potential in his native country, and Portland purchased 75 per cent of the National Commercial Bank of Jamaica for 6 billion Jamaican dollars (US$127 million) from the Jamaican Government. In 2003, Senvia Money Services Inc., a global money transfer company, was established. This was followed in 2004, by the acquisition of AIC Financial Group Limited, headquartered in Trinidad.\n\nIn 2004, he announced plans to set up the AIC Caribbean Fund with the intention of investing in the entire Caribbean region. The stated aim of the fund is to raise US$1 billion in order to \"make investments in businesses located in countries of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), with an emphasis on Jamaica, Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago\". So far, it has made a number of large-scale investments.\n\nIn 2006, Portland acquired an 85 per cent controlling stake in the United General Insurance Company, the largest auto insurer in Jamaica, and renamed the firm Advantage General Insurance Company. A controlling interest in CVM Communications Group (consisting of radio and television stations and newspapers) was purchased at the same time. Portland partnered with the Canadian Risley Group to form Columbus Communications Ltd – a Barbadian corporation that holds controlling interest in a number of telecommunications providers in the Caribbean including Cable Bahamas Ltd, Caribbean Crossings Ltd, Merit Communications Ltd, and FibralLink Jamaica Ltd.\n\nIn the tourism sector, Lee-Chin guided Portland through a number of acquisitions in the Caribbean. Among them were the hospitality operations of the Trident Villas and Spa in Jamaica, Reggae Beach, and Blue Lagoon.\n\nPortland's first acquisition in the health care industry sector was announced in July 2006, when Medical Associates Ltd., a privately held hospital in Kingston, Jamaica, joined the Portland Group.\n\nSimilar to the experience of the late 1990s, Lee-Chin again has shied away from investing in commodities and the energy market boom. He has specifically stated that \"We [AIC] do not like commodities-type businesses nor most high-tech companies simply because they are implicitly poor enterprises which we would not want to hold for the long term\".\n\nAgain, this strategy has meant that AIC has significantly underperformed the S&P index, but Lee-Chin believes that the current boom is just another bubble. Lee-Chin describes the market since 1990 as \"a series of rolling speculations\", and now \"we see a commodities bubble\".\n\nWhile at Investors Group, he studied the strategies of successful investors, such as Warren Buffett, Benjamin Graham and Kenneth Thomson. Their buy and hold strategy is easily recognisable in the motto of AIC - \"Buy, hold and prosper\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40934022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40934022", "title": "National Intelligence Priorities Framework", "text": "National Intelligence Priorities Framework\n\nThe National Intelligence Priorities Framework, or NIPF, is a classified national intelligence document used by the top planners of the United States Intelligence Community, such as the President of the United States and the Director of National Intelligence, that summarizes the United States's intelligence gathering priorities.\n\nThe document was first put in use in 2003, but newer versions have been written.\n\nIncluded in the NIPF's are the NSA's foreign surveillance priorities. The top targets currently include China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan, and Afghanistan, but there are many other countries on the list as well as Intergovernmental organizations, such as the European Union, the United Nations, and the International Atomic Energy Agency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2471086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2471086", "title": "Nippon Decimal Classification", "text": "Nippon Decimal Classification\n\nThe Nippon Decimal Classification (NDC, also called the Nippon Decimal System) is a system of library classification developed for mainly Japanese language books maintained by the Japan Library Association since 1956. It is based on the Dewey Decimal System. The system is based upon using each successive digit to divide into nine divisions with the digit zero used for those not belonging to any of the divisions.\n\nThe system is made up of ten categories:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19573696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19573696", "title": "Pavao Tijan", "text": "Pavao Tijan\n\nPavao Tijan (born in Senj in 1908 - died in Madrid in 1997) was a Croatian encyclopaedist who spent the latter half of his life in Spain. \n\nTijan was born in Senj in 1908. He attended the University of Zagreb where he finished a degree in Croatistics and Slavistics in 1930. He was subsequently a gymnasium professor. He edited \"Hrvatski jezik\" was also a member of the \"Croatian Encyclopedia\" project. He was a member of the Croatian Publishing and Bibliographic Institute and edited its publication \"Književni tjednik\". With the fall of the Independent State of Croatia in 1945 he fled from the oncoming Yugoslav Partisan army for fear of reprisal. He and members of his family travelled through Austria and settled in Rome where Tijan remained until 1947. From there he travelled to Madrid, which remained his home for the rest of his life.\n\nIn 1993, Tijan returned to Zagreb and Senj for his first visit to Croatia in 48 years. Tijan was made an honorary citizen of Senj. He died in Madrid in 1997. In 2007, the Croatian Government had his written works brought to Zagreb from Madrid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15642097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15642097", "title": "Petit appartement de la reine", "text": "Petit appartement de la reine\n\nThe petit appartement de la reine () is a suite of rooms in the Palace of Versailles. These rooms, situated behind the \"grand appartement de la reine\", and which now open onto two interior courtyards, were the private domain of the Queens of France, Maria Theresa of Spain, Marie Leszczyńska, and Marie-Antoinette as well as of the duchesse de Bourgogne as dauphine.\nThe rooms in the \"petit appartement de la reine\" have been restored to the condition in which they were left when Marie-Antoinette left Versailles on 6 October 1789, and while the rooms are mostly Louis XVI style, some parts are Louis XV, or Rococo, like the fireplace mantel found in the s\"upplément de la bibliothèque\", or the center table in the \"cabinet de la Méridienne\", as well as the mantel clock in the billard room.\n\nAt the completion of Le Vau’s \"enveloppe\", Marie-Thérèse’s private area consisted of suite of five rooms that opened on the southern side of the \"cour de marbre\" and onto a small interior courtyard — at the time called the \"cour de la reine\". In these rooms, Marie-Thérèse led her private and family life. Very little information survived about the décor or the arrangement of these rooms, owing largely to her early death in 1683 (Verlet 1985, p. 253).\n\nThe most significant modifications to the \"petit appartement de la reine\" were made after the marriage of Louis XIV's grandson, the duc de Bourgogne, with Princess Marie-Adélaïde of Savoy in 1697. Shortly after the marriage, in 1699, a suite of three rooms was constructed – known as the \"appartement de nuit du duc de Bourgogne\" (Verlet 1985, p. 210). These rooms were created for the conjugal visits of the young duc with his wife. Consisting of a bedroom, cabinet, and garde-robe, this part of the \"petit appartement de la reine\" when constructed in 1699 divided the \"cour de la reine\" into the \"cour de Monseigneur\" to the west and the \"cour de Monsieur\" to the east (Verlet 1985, p. 256). These rooms also communicated with the \"appartement du roi\" and formed part of \"petit appartement de la reine\" and were used by the princess until her death in 1712.\n\nUnder Marie Leszczyńska, the \"petit appartement de la reine\" underwent three distinct phases of modification: 1728-1731; 1737–1739; and, 1746-1748.\n\nThe 1728-1731 phase resulted in the construction of a \"chambre des bains\" (1740 plan #8); the \"petite galerie\" (1740 plan #7); and an oratory (1740 plan #6) (Verlet 1985, p. 401).\n\nThe 1737-1739 phase saw significant redecoration in the \"petite galerie\" with a décor of paneling in green and gold vernis Martin. At this time, the \"appartement de nuit du duc de Bourgogne\" was remodeled for use by the queen with the construction of the \"grand cabinet intérieur\" (1740 plan #9) and the \"arrière cabinet\" (1740 plan #10), both of which were decorated with intricately carved and painted paneling. At this time, a number of paintings, most notably by François Boucher and Charles-Antoine Coypel, were displayed in the \"petit appartement de la reine\" (Verlet 1985, p. 402)\n\nThe 1746-1748 phase saw a redecoration of the \"petite galerie\". During this time it was called alternately \"cabinet des chinois\" – owing to the number of chinoiserie designs by the queen, which she had framed and hung in this room – or \"laboratoire\" – a laboratory where she pursued her hobbies. At this time, the \"oratoire\" was converted in the \"cabinet de la Méridienne\" with new paneling by Jacques Verberckt. The \"pièce des bains\" was redecorated with paneling by the Rousseau brothers and paintings by Charles-Joseph Natoire. The \"grand cabinet d’intérieur\" received new paneling by Verberckt (Jallut, 1969; Pons, 1992; Verlet 1985, p. 402-403).\n\nWith the death of Marie Leszczyńska in 1768, the \"petit appartement de la reine\" remained vacant until the arrival of the new dauphine, Marie-Antoinette, in 1770.\n\nThe fame of the \"petit appartement de la reine\" rests squarely in the hands of the last queen of France during the \"Ancien Régime\". The restored state of the rooms seen today at Versailles closely replicate the \"petit appartement de la reine\" as it appeared during Marie-Antoinette’s day (Verlet, 1937). Modifications of the \"petit appartement de la reine\" for Marie-Antoinette began in 1779 (Verlet 1985, p. 585).\n\nMarie-Antoinette ordered her favorite architect, Richard Mique to cover the walls of the \"petit appartement de la reine\" with white satin embroidered with floral arabesques, to give a decorative cohesion to the rooms. The cost of the fabric was 100,000 \"livres\"; the hangings were entirely replaced with wood paneling in 1783 (Verlet 1985, p. 586).\n\nIn 1781, to commemorate the birth of the first dauphin, Louis XVI commissioned Richard Mique to redecorate the \"cabinet de la Méridienne\" (1789 plan #6) (Verlet 1985, p. 586). It was in this room that Marie-Antoinette would choose the clothing she would wear that day.\n\nIn this same year, the \"bibliothèque\" – occupying the site of the \"petite galerie\" of Marie Leszczyńska – (1789 plan #7) and the \"supplément de la bibliothèque\" – occupying the \"pièce des bains\" of Maria Leszczyńska – (1789 plan #8), and, additionally, a room for the \"toilette à l’anglaise\" a \"pièce des bains\" and a \"salle des bains\" were arranged, opening on the \"cour de Monsieur\" (Verlet 1985, p. 403).\n\nThe last major modification to the \"petit appartement de la reine\" occurred in 1783, when Marie-Antoinette ordered a complete redecoration of the \"grand cabinet intérieur\". The costly embroidered hangings were replaced with carved gilt paneling by Richard Mique. The new décor caused the room to be renamed the \"cabinet doré\" (Verlet 1985, p. 586).\n\nOf all the features of the \"petit appartement de la reine\", the so-called secret passage that links the grand appartement de la reine with the \"appartement du roi\" is one that has become a legend in the history of Palace of Versailles. The passage actually dates from the time of Marie-Thérèse, and had always been a suite of service rooms that also served as a private means by which the king and queen could communicate with each other (1740 plan #1-4; 1789 plan #1-4). It is true, however, that Marie-Antoinette, who was sleeping in the \"chambre de la reine\" in the \"grand appartement de la reine\", escaped from the Paris mob on the night of 5/6 October 1789 by using this route. The entrance to the so-called secret passage is through a door located on the west side of the north wall of the \"chambre de la reine\".\n\nViews of the \"petit appartement de la reine\"\nBooks\n\nJournals\n"}
{"id": "39577108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39577108", "title": "Powell-Cotton Ethnographic Films", "text": "Powell-Cotton Ethnographic Films\n\nThe Powell-Cotton ethnographic films is a collection of over 70 ethnographic, documentary and wildlife films made by the Powell-Cotton family between 1922 and 1973. The films relate exclusively to the family's expeditions in Africa during this time. The original films are held in the British Film Institute archives, and the Powell-Cotton Museum own copies contemporaneous with the originals.\n\nBetween 1887 and 1939 Major Percy H G Powell-Cotton undertook a total of 28 expeditions to Africa and Asia. Alongside the extensive collection of game and animal specimens he bought back, Major Powell-Cotton also shot several reels of 16mm film footage whilst out in the bush.\n\nHis films mainly depict African game and wildlife, as well as market scenes, craft making and tribal ceremonies from the African rural communities. One particular film, \"Gorilla Drive, Cameroons\", is believed to be the only one of its subject from this date in existence. It shows the mustering of the animals by the local people, their herding and despatch by the natives with spears.\n\nPowell-Cotton made 17 films in total, either independently or together with his daughter Diana or wife Hannah. All the films are 16mm black and white silent films, made in a non-narrative documentary style. The major also shot all his films using a handheld, windup Bell & Howell Filmo 70 camera, which is currently on display in the Powell-Cotton museum. The first recorded use of colour film was in 1950’s in the film \"South Africa: Victoria Falls & Livingstone Game Park\" made by Christopher and Diana Powell-Cotton.\n\nMost of the films in the collection were made for private viewing only and for the purposes recording keeping from the expeditions. However, Major Powell-Cotton did present several of his films to the Royal Anthropological Institute in 1932, including \"Crafts in the Cameroons\" (1931) and \"Osonigbe Juju House and Benin Brass Cutting\" (1931).\n\nThe most notable films of the collection are those by Major Powell-Cotton’s daughters, Diana and Antoinette Powell-Cotton from their expeditions to Angola in 1936 and 1937.\n\nThe result of their trips was just under three hours of edited black-and-white 16mm film, accompanied by nearly 3,000 objects and 2,000 photographs. The films portray local ceremonies, craft-working and family life in rural Africa. Together they provide a unique record of the region at a crucial time in its history, before the full impact of the massive cultural changes brought about by missionization and colonial rule.\n\nDiana and Antoinette filmed their entire footage on a single, small windup Kodak cine camera which is currently on display in the Powell-Cotton museum. The sisters were not able to review or edit any footage on location, and so were constantly anxious they had not captured the events and activities in Angola successfully. They only edited their footage on their return, and would give private viewings accompanied by music and live narration to family members in their screen room which is now Gallery 4 in the Powell-Cotton museum.\n\nSome of the Powell-Cotton films are shown as part of the permanent exhibition at the Powell-Cotton Museum.\n\nThe Angolan film collection by the Powell-Cotton sisters was also the focus of the special exhibition ‘Tala! Visions of Angola’ which was held at the Powell-Cotton Museum from May to November 2012.\n\nThe exhibition was awarded National Lottery Heritage Funding and was co-curated with the Angolan Cultural Foundation and the Angolan Embassy. Commenting on the exhibition, the curators said:\n\n“The objects we had access to, were made by somebody’s great grandmother or great grandfather. They deserve to be seen and remembered by their rightful ancestors as well as the wider public. Just as importantly, the Angolan community here in the UK have a right to be involved in the decisions made about the collection. This is after all their history.”\n\nIn connection with the exhibition, a research project entitled ‘Looking Back to Find Them Looking Forward: The Visionary Powell-Cotton Sisters’ and was in collaboration with the Pitt Rivers Museum, University of Oxford.\n\nThe project and exhibition aimed to highlight the importance of the daughters collecting practises and material they brought back, especially their ethnographic films. As Oxford Aspire stated in an article on the project;\n\n‘The sisters’ collecting practice was visionary in that it placed photography and film-making in a central role in the collection of material culture, something few other museum collections were doing at the time. As a result their collection represents a significant part of the film and museum heritage of the county. Until this new project, however, their achievements were not recognised in the galleries of the Powell-Cotton Museum.’\n\nSee Powell-Cotton filmography\n\n\nMiller, Ben, ‘\"Extraordinary\" Tala show brings Visions of Angola to Kent's Powell-Cotton Museum’ on Culture 24, 22 May 2012\n\nLegrand, Louise, Annette, Diana and Antoinette Powell-Cotton: 'interested amateurs'? MA Thesis, University of Kent, 2008\n\nPowell Cotton Museum, Illustrated guide to the Powell-Cotton Museum natural history and ethnography, Quex Park, Birchington, The Museum, 1969\n\n"}
{"id": "45527916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45527916", "title": "Reifying Desire", "text": "Reifying Desire\n\nReifying Desire is a six-part video series by artist Jacolby Satterwhite, which was on view in the 2014 Biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art. Satterwhite created 230 3D modeled versions of his body, animated figures, and his mothers drawings. He performs in this \"utopian and non-political space\", combining his public reactions to art history, political histories, and pop culture with his mother's private drawings and inventions. \n\nSatterwhite’s mother was schizophrenic and stayed home, unemployed, up until his teenage years. As a form of therapy, his mother drew pencil-on-paper drawings and diagrams for her potential product ideas after being inspired by late-night television infomercials. The drawings allowed for a future promise of financial security if they were able to be projected out into the public.\n\nSatterwhite uses these drawings, along with the scrawled-out text accompanying them, and turns them into three-dimensional objects for his video series. Using Autodesk Maya, a 3D-rendering program, the images are digitally traced by hand using a stylus to be then placed into a larger virtual landscape. Satterwhite pairs these drawings with other photographs, family videos, and his own pieces of dance and performance. The culmination of these elements results in an experience exploring memory, personal history, surrealism, narrative, psychology, and reality.\n\nSatterwhite’s digital avatar performs dance movements in this digitally created utopian realm, combining live action with digital creation. He combines elements of choreographer William Forsythe’s (b. 1949) dance techniques with anything from elements of martial arts and voguing. The body moves at impossible angles, freed from gravitational pull. His mother’s images are connected with his own body, art historical references, digitally rendered bodies, and fantastical structures. The special awareness of the physical realm existing between bodies and objects are reimagined and transformed, along with the world of images, and the shifting relationships between them.\n"}
{"id": "38875973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38875973", "title": "Reincarnated (film)", "text": "Reincarnated (film)\n\nReincarnated is a documentary film about the musician Snoop Dogg's explorations of reggae and Rastafari culture, and his transformation into Snoop Lion. It premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 7, 2012, and was released to theaters March 21, 2013. It is a companion film to his 12th studio album, \"Reincarnated\". The film was shot by Andy Capper of \"Vice Magazine\".\n\nFrom the start, Snoop was known for his gangsta raps, G-funk beats, and reckless lifestyle. His popularity started back when he was a member of Death Row Records, where he released his debut album Doggystyle. The album sold more copies than any debut album ever had, making “Snoop Doggy Dogg” a well-known name. Though he was famous for being “gangsta,” Snoop had shown that he wanted peace as well; especially after he just missed a conviction for murder in 1996 which helped him further himself even more from all the conflict happening in the industry around that time. More recently, his peaceful and nonviolent state of mind became more evident, as he decided to begin participating the Rastafari faith, give himself a new name, and take on a new style of music.\n\nAs most of those who follow the Rastafari faith do, Snoop decided to go through a transformation into his new self; his new, Rastafari self. Reincarnated documents Snoop Dogg’s transition into Snoop Lion, which involved him taking a trip to Jamaica to make a reggae album and discover more about the Rastafari faith. The documentary starts out by exploring Snoop’s past; his time on Death Row Records, the loss of his friends Tupac and Nate Dogg, and the murder accusation. The focus then shifts to his spiritual journey and new style of music. While in Jamaica, Snoop collaborated with a few famous reggae artists, including Bunny Wailer and Diplo, to create the \"Reincarnated\" album, which focuses on love and nonviolence. Wailer was Snoop’s guide throughout the trip, leading him through his journey into Rastafari. The film includes many intimate moments with Snoop, where he discusses his personal thoughts and reasons for becoming Rasta. The documentary also includes the heavy marijuana smoking in which Snoop participated, which is a common practice among Rastafari, and a common stereotype of how they practice their faith as well.\n\nThe film was directed and produced by Andy Capper of \"Vice Magazine\". Capper followed Snoop to Jamaica to record the transformation, and gathered intimate interview footage with him as well. Roughly 200 hours of footage was shot, which was then edited in a two-month span. The documentary was aired at SXSW and The Toronto International Film Festival in 2012.\n\nIn a review from \"The New York Times\", writer Andy Webster states, “enlightenment isn’t as evident here as much as a woozy weariness, perhaps a long-term byproduct of being very, very stoned,” regarding the authenticity of Snoop’s journey throughout the film. In a review from the \"Los Angeles Times\", writer Mikael Wood explains that the documentary does not teach viewers anything new about Snoop, and that it seems like “just another component in the new album's marketing plan. In two other reviews by Shaka Griffith and Rich Cline, there was mention of lack of authenticity as well; neither could say if the transformation should really be taken seriously. After the film was released, Bunny Wailer made a statement where he indicted Snoop of “outright fraudulent use” of the Rastafari faith.\n"}
{"id": "76307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76307", "title": "Road to Morocco", "text": "Road to Morocco\n\nRoad to Morocco is a 1942 American comedy film starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour, and featuring Anthony Quinn and Dona Drake. The film, which was written by Frank Butler and Don Hartman and directed by David Butler for Paramount Pictures, is the third of the \"Road to …\" films. It was preceded by \"Road to Zanzibar\" (1941) and followed by \"Road to Utopia\" (1946). The story is about two fast-talking guys castaway on a desert shore and sold into slavery to a beautiful princess. The setting is in Morocco.\n\nThe film opens with a freighter at sea exploding and news announcements. The cause of the explosion is a mystery, with all crew accounted for with the exception of two unidentified stowaways.\n\nJeff Peters (Bing Crosby) and Orville 'Turkey' Jackson (Bob Hope) are seen floating at sea aboard a pile of wreckage. It was Jeff's idea to stow away, but it was Orville 'smoking in the powder room' that caused the explosion. As the two joke about eating one another to survive, they spot land in the distance.\n\nAs they sit on the beach, Orville reminds Jeff of his promise to Aunt Lucy, to take care of him. Jeff reminds him that Aunt Lucy died before he could agree. They are interrupted by a convenient camel, and they hitch a ride.\n\nOnce in the city, they are nearly run over by Arabs shooting guns, led by the sheik Mullay Kasim (Anthony Quinn). Jeff and Orville learn the sheik is pursuing a princess for marriage. Orville is approached by a group of bearers carrying someone in a veiled box. A beautiful hand takes his and then leaves, with Orville in pure bliss. In a restaurant, Jeff and Orville eat heartily, while trying to figure out how to get past the knife-wielding owner without paying. A man (Dan Seymour) takes Jeff aside and hands over a great deal of money. Orville is happy to be able to pay for the meal, until he learns that Jeff 'sold' him. Orville is furious, especially since neither of them know why the man bought him. Jeff calms him down and tells Orville he'll buy him back, eventually; and two men throw a hood over Orville and carry him off.\n\nA week later, Jeff is woken by a vision of Aunt Lucy (played by a harp-wielding Bob Hope) who shames him for his act. Jeff says he tried to buy Orville back, but learned he was re-sold to someone else. Aunt Lucy tells him he has to find Orville, and recommends singing Orville's favorite song.\n\nJeff walks through the street singing, (accompanied by Aunt Lucy's ghost) until a note, with Orville's locket is tossed at him from the palace window. The note, written by Orville, says he's being tortured and warns Jeff of danger. Jeff, thinking Orville is in trouble, scales the palace wall. Hearing a woman singing, Jeff sneaks into the palace and see a lot of beautiful girls dancing for the beautiful Princess Shalmar (Dorothy Lamour) and singing to a very relaxed Orville.\n\nJeff storms in and is grabbed by guards. Orville feigns ignorance and tries to send him away. The princess dismisses everyone, except for Jeff. Orville admits the truth, but it's clear he's still mad at Jeff. He says he and the princess are to be married. Jeff is surprised, but the princess says her wise man read the stars and told her to marry Orville. She was the one that passed Orville in the veiled box, and also the one that purchased him. As she plants a passionate kiss on Orville, Jeff decides to stick around; a decision that almost brings him and Orville to blows, but the princess invites Jeff to stay.\n\nAs Orville is waited on by beautiful girls, he learns from one of them, Mihirmah (Dona Drake), the princess was supposed to marry Kasim (Anthony Quinn), but also tells Orville she loves him too. Jeff breaks up the party and confronts Orville, who has Jeff thrown out.\n\nJeff wanders the palace singing, an act that attracts the princess and they go on a moonlit walk. Mihirmah tries to get Orville to run away with her. Jeff tries to tell the princess that HE was the one sold and should be marrying her, but he is interrupted by a sword-wielding Orville.\n\nThe next morning an angry Kasim confronts Princess Shalmar for marrying someone else. He is prepared to kill Orville but the princess takes him to the wise man Hyder Kahn (Vladimir Sokoloff). Hyder Khan said he had read the stars and found that Princess Shalmar's first husband is destined to die a violent death within a week of the marriage, and the second husband would be blessed with long life and happiness. The princess tells Kasim that Orville is the first husband, and when he dies, she'll happily marry Kasim and they will live in happiness. Kasim finally understands and embraces the princess.\n\nOrville finds out about the prophecy and runs to Jeff and convinces him that the princess actually loves him and he's going to run off with Mihirmah. Later that night, Orville is visited and shamed by Aunt Lucy's spirit, but Orville refuses to tell Jeff the truth. Meanwhile, the wise man realizes that he had been misreading the stars due to fireflies in his telescope; his prophecies are incorrect.\n\nPrincess Shalmar refuses to marry Jeff, even though Orville is eager to get out of the marriage. The princess sends Orville away to get ready for the wedding. The wise man runs in and tells the princess and Jeff of the incorrect prophecy. The princess is happy and tells Jeff now she can marry him and not Kasim. Jeff realizes why Orville was so eager to get out of the marriage, but decides not to tell him. Instead he says the princess changed her mind, and Orville is only too eager to accept. Meanwhile, the wise man's assistant tells Kasim, who rallies his men.\n\nThe Princess and Jeff decide to get married in the U. S., accompanied by Orville and Mihirmah but they are confronted by Kasim, who takes the princess and gives Mihirmah to one of his men. Jeff and Orville try to use their 'patty-cake' routine on Kasim, but it backfires. They escape into the palace with the girls but are found and captured.\n\nKasim takes the women and strands Jeff and Orville in the desert. They wander aimlessly, seeing a drive-in restaurant, but it's a mirage. They see a vision of a singing Princess Shalmar, which spurs them onward. They find an oasis which is near Kasim's camp. They try to sneak in, but are captured. They see another set of horsemen and learn it is an enemy sheik who was invited as a token of peace. They manage to escape and set the two sheiks against each other. In the chaos Jeff and Orville grab the girls and escape.\n\nLater, on a boat home, Orville sneaks into the powder room for a cigarette. There is an explosion and then we see all four afloat a pile of wreckage. Fortunately, they are near New York harbor.\n\n\nThe film was placed at No. 4 in the list of top-grossing movies for 1942 in the USA.\n\nBosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" liked it: \"Let us be thankful that Paramount is still blessed with Bing Crosby and Bob Hope, and that it has set its cameras to tailing these two irrepressible wags on another fantastic excursion, \"Road to Morocco\", which came to the Paramount yesterday. For the screen, under present circumstances, can hold no more diverting lure than the prospect of Hope and Crosby ambling, as they have done before, through an utterly slaphappy picture, picking up Dorothy Lamour along the way and tossing acid wisecracks at each other without a thought for reason or sense...The short of it is that \"Road to Morocco\" is a daffy, laugh-drafting film. And you’ll certainly agree with the camel which, at one point, offers the gratuitous remark, “This is the screwiest picture I was ever in.”\n\n\"Variety\" commented: \"Crosby, Hope and Lamour have done it again. Their click in \"Road to Singapore\" and \"Road to Zanzibar\" is eclipsed by \"Road to Morocco\"... Crosby, of course, is still more or less straighting for Hope’s incessantly steaming gags. The two have never teamed better, nor have they, seemingly, romped with such abandon.\"\n\n\nAll lyrics to all songs are by Johnny Burke to music by Jimmy Van Heusen.\n\nBing Crosby recorded a number of the songs for Decca Records. \"Moonlight Becomes You\" topped the Billboard charts for two weeks during a 17-week stay in the lists. \"Constantly\" and \"(We're Off on the) Road to Morocco\" also charted briefly. Crosby's songs were also included in the Bing's Hollywood series.\n\nThe picture received Academy Award nominations for Best Sound Recording (Loren Ryder) and Best Writing, Original Screenplay. In 1996, \"Road to Morocco\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\nIn an NPR interview, Middle East expert Dr. Jack Shaheen of Southern Illinois University cites \"Road to Morocco\" as \"one of the most stereotypical films ever to come out of Hollywood.\" The films themselves were spoofing the popular adventure movies of the time, however.\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "31943729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31943729", "title": "Short Annals of Tirconaill", "text": "Short Annals of Tirconaill\n\nThe Short Annals of Tirconaill is an Irish annal, or annual record, with entries dating from 1241 to 1650, but with numerous gaps, such as 1241 to 1423. Its authors are unknown; historian Paul Walsh speculated that it had several scribes over the course of some four hundred years, ending in 1650 or the years immediately after.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "345356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=345356", "title": "Skate (fish)", "text": "Skate (fish)\n\nSkates are cartilaginous fish belonging to the family Rajidae in the superorder Batoidea of rays. More than 150 species have been described, in 17 genera. Softnose skates and pygmy skates were previously treated as subfamilies of Rajidae (Arhynchobatinae and Gurgesiellinae), but are now considered distinct families. Alternatively, the name \"skate\" is used to refer to the entire Rajiformes order (families Anacanthobatidae, Arhynchobatidae, Gurgesiellidae and Rajidae).\n\nMembers of Rajidae are distinguished by their stiff snout and a rostrum that is not reduced.\n\nThere are 17 genera in Rajidae:\n\n\nSkates are cartilaginous fishes like other Chondrichthyes, however, skates, like rays and other Rajiformes, have a flat body shape with flat pectoral fins that extend the length of their body. A large portion of the skate's dorsal body is covered by rough skin made of placoid scales. Placoid scales have a pointed tip that is oriented caudally and are homologous to teeth. Their mouths are located on the underside of the body, with a jaw suspension common to Batoids known as euhyostyly. Skate's gill slits are located ventrally as well, but dorsal spiracles allow the skate to be partially buried in floor sediment and still complete respiratory exchange. Also located on the dorsal side of the skate are their two eyes which allow for predator awareness. In addition to their pectoral fins, skates have a first and second dorsal fin, caudal fin and paired pelvic fins. Distinct from their rhomboidal shape is a long fleshy slender tail. While skate anatomy is similar to other Batoidea, features such as their electric organ and mermaids purse create clear distinctions.\n\nSkates produce their young in an egg case called Mermaids Purse. These egg cases have distinct characteristics that are individualized to each species. This makes a great tool for identifying different species of skates. One of these identifiable structures, is the keel. The keel is a flexible ridge that runs along the outside of the structure. Another characteristic is the number of embryos in the egg case. Some species contain only one embryo while others can have up to seven. The size of the fibrous shell around the case is another characteristic. Some species have thick layers on the exterior, however other species don't even have the presence of this layer.\n\nThe electric organ (EO) is a characteristic exclusive to aquatic species. Among the Chondrichthyes, the only species to possess electric organs are the electric ray and the skate. Unlike many other electrogenic fishes, the skate is unique in that it has two paired electric organs, which run longitudinal through the tail in the lateral musculature of the notochord. The impulses put out by the electric organs of the skate are considered to be weak, asynchronous, long-lasting signals. Although the anatomy of the skate EO is now commonly studied and well understood, there is not enough strong evidence to suggest what the actual function of the EO is. Some research suggests the electric impulses are too weak to be a mechanism used for defense or hunting. It is also too irregular to be useful for electrolocation purposes. The most reasonable explanation in the literature suggests that the electric organ discharges may be used as a form of communication used for reproduction purposes. \n\nThe majority of skates feed on bottom dwelling animals, such as shrimp, crab, oyster, clams, and other invertebrates. To feed on these animals they have grinding plates in their mouths. Filter feeding rays that eat plankton have gill rakers. Skates are an influential part of the food webs of demersal marine communities. They utilize similar resources to those of other upper trophic-level marine predators, such as seabirds, marine mammals, and sharks. The flattened body shape, ventral eyes and well developed spiracles of the skate allows them to live benthically, buried in the sediment or using a longitudinal undulation of the pectoral fins known as Rajiform locomotion to glide along the water floor. Current research suggests that some species of skates, in addition to their Rajiform locomotion, use their pelvic fins to perform ambulatory locomotion. This form of locomotion performed by the skate is being explored as a possible origin for our own development of walking by looking for similar neural pathways used for movement between skates and animals walking on land.\n\nSkates are primarily found from the intertidal down to depths greater than 3,000 meters. They are most commonly found along outer continental shelves and upper slopes. They are typically more diverse at higher latitudes and in deep-water. In fact, skates are the only cartilaginous fish taxon to exhibit more diversity of species at higher latitudes. A cool, temperate to polar water in the deep sea can be a favorable environment for skates. As the water becomes more shallow and warmer, skates are seen to be replaced by stingrays. Skates are absent from brackish and freshwater environments. However, there is a single estuarine species that has been found in Tasmania, Australia. Some skate fauna have been found inhabiting areas of rock cobble and high rocky relief.\n\nSkates mate at the same nursery ground each year. In order to fertilize the egg, males use claspers, a structure attached to the pelvic fins. The claspers allow them to direct the flow of semen into the female's cloaca. Skates are oviparous, meaning they lay eggs with very little development in the mother. This is one major difference from rays, which are viviparous, meaning they give birth to live young. When a female skate is fertilized, a protected case forms around the embryo called an egg case, or more commonly mermaid's purse. This egg case is then deposited out of the mother's body onto the ocean floor where the skates develop for up to 15 months before they enter the external environment.\n\nSkates belong to the ancient lineage of cartilaginous fishes. Fossil denticles (tooth-like scales in the skin) resembling that of today's chondrichthyans date at least as far back as the Ordovician, with the oldest unambiguous fossils of cartilaginous fish dating from the middle Devonian. A clade within this diverse family, the Neoselachii, emerged by the Triassic, with the best-understood neoselachian fossils dating from the Jurassic. This clade is represented today by sharks, sawfish, rays and skates.\n\nSkates have more valid species (574) than any other group of cartilaginous fishes. Since 1950, 126 skate species have been discovered. Five scientists take credit for the rapid increase of findings. The Rajidae are considered monophyletic because of their similarity in appearance. There are 13 genera and about 245 valid species. However, there is little information about the diets of about 24% of these species. There are at least 45 dubious species of skates worldwide.\n\nThe skate belongs to the class Chondrichthyes. This class consists of all the cartilaginous fishes, including sharks and stingrays. Chondrichthyes is divided into two subclasses, the one including skates, rays, and shark is the subclass Elasmobranchii. Skates are the most diverse elasmobranch group, comprising over 20% of the known species. The number of species is likely to increase as taxonomic issues are resolved and new species are identified.\n\nSkates are like stingrays in that they have five pairs of gill slits that are located ventrally, which means on the underside of their body (unlike sharks that have their gills located on their sides). Skates and rays both have pectoral fins that are flat and expanded, which are typically fused to the head. Both skates and stingrays typically have their eyes on top of their head. Skates also share similar feeding habits with rays.\n\nSkates are different from rays in that they lack a whip-like tail and stinging spines. However, some skates have electric organs located in their tail. The main difference between skates and rays is that skates lay eggs, whereas rays give birth to live young.\n\nMoreover, skates can be more abundant than rays, and are fished for food in some parts of the world. \n\nSkates have slow growth rates and, since they mature late, low reproductive rates. As a result, skates are vulnerable to overfishing and appear to have been overfished and are suffering reduced population levels in many parts of the world. The barndoor skate, \"Dipturus laevis\", is currently listed with the IUCN as vulnerable due to being severely overfished.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International added the barndoor skate, bottlenose skate, and maltese skate to its seafood red list. \"The Greenpeace International seafood red list is a list of fish that are commonly sold in supermarkets around the world, and which have a very high risk of being sourced from unsustainable fisheries.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52672343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52672343", "title": "Suomalaisen Sana-Lugun Coetus", "text": "Suomalaisen Sana-Lugun Coetus\n\nSuomalaisen Sana-Lugun Coetus (1745) by Daniel Juslenius was the first comprehensive dictionary of the Finnish language. It contains about 16 000 words of the Finnish language, at the end of which is a Swedish list of words. The dictionary contains a lot of artificial neologisms from the 18th century.\n\nThe dictionary was republished in 1917 by Salomon Kreander and Juhana Canstrén and edited by A.V. Koskimies. A facsimile of the dictionary was published in 1968.\n\nJuslenius, Daniel (1745): \"Suomalaisen Sana-Lugun Coetus.\" Näköispainos H. G. Porthanille kuuluneesta sanakirjasta. Suomalaisen Kirjallisuuden Seura, Helsinki 1968.\n"}
{"id": "2921412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2921412", "title": "Tatsumi Fujinami", "text": "Tatsumi Fujinami\n\nFujinami started in the old Japanese Wrestling Association (JWA) under Antonio Inoki's wing at the age of 17. When Inoki was fired from JWA in 1971, Fujinami and a few others followed him in forming a new promotion, New Japan Pro Wrestling. Inoki, Fujinami, Osamu Kido and Kotetsu Yamamoto are recognized as NJPW's founding fathers.\n\nIn those early days, he served as opponent for debuting rookies, such as Mr. Pogo, Yoshiaki Fujiwara and Gran Hamada. Fujinami, Fujiwara, Hamada and three other rookies competed in the 1974 \"Karl Gotch Cup\" (a tournament for rookies, forerunner to the later \"Young Lions Cup\").\n\nIn the late 1970s, Fujinami was sent abroad, to Mexico's Universal Wrestling Association and to Jim Crockett Promotions in the U.S. In the late 1970s he went to the World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) where he first made a name for himself. He won his first title, the WWWF Junior Heavyweight Championship, on January 23, 1978, by defeating José Estrada in Madison Square Garden, and brought it to Japan, establishing it as the premier junior heavyweight title in Japan. In 1981, he was moved to the heavyweight division to make room for Tiger Mask in the junior heavyweight division. Fujinami would be the first wrestler to be successful in both the junior heavyweight and heavyweight divisions.\n\n1988 proved to be Fujinami's banner year. On May 8, he defeated Big Van Vader by disqualification, to win the title vacated by Antonio Inoki. However, within days, the title was held up after he fought Riki Choshu to a no contest; he would win the title back a month later in the rematch. In October, he won the NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship, and he ended the year by winning the WCWA World Heavyweight Championship in December.\n\n1989 proved to be a heartbreaking year for Fujinami. In April, he vacated the title to be determined in a tournament at New Japan's first Tokyo Dome show; he would lose to eventual winner Big Van Vader in the semi-finals. In June, during a match with Vader, Fujinami suffered a severe back injury and pulled a hernia. He wouldn't wrestle at all until he returned in September 1990, changing his kanji from \"辰巳\" to \"辰爾\" (both are pronounced Tatsumi).\n\nIn December 1990, he regained the title he never lost, the IWGP Heavyweight title from Choshu. His reign was short-lived, as he lost the title to Vader a month later. Fujinami rebounded by regaining the title two months later. Within days, Fujinami made history, as he defeated Ric Flair to win the NWA World Heavyweight Championship, making him the very first man to hold the IWGP and NWA World titles simultaneously.\n\nHis \"most remembered\" match in the U.S. was when he defended his NWA World Heavyweight title against Ric Flair in a title vs. title re-match at the first ever WCW SuperBrawl I in Florida after a controversial match in Japan that March. Flair retained his WCW Championship and regained Fujinami's NWA title by a school boy pin with a handful of tights.\n\nIn 1993, Fujinami won the G1 Climax tournament, defeating Yoshiaki Fujiwara, Osamu Kido, Keiji Mutoh, and Hiroshi Hase to win the tournament. In April 1994, he defeated Shinya Hashimoto to win his fifth IWGP Heavyweight title, but lost it back to Hashimoto three weeks later. In January 1997, he reunited with Kengo Kimura to win the IWGP Tag Team titles from Masahiro Chono and Hiroyoshi Tenzan. They would hold onto the belts for over three months before losing them to Riki Choshu and Kensuke Sasaki. In April 1998, Fujinami won his sixth and final IWGP Heavyweight title by defeating Sasaki. He would hold onto the belt for over four months, before losing the title to Chono.\n\nIn recent years Fujinami has decreased his work load upon being named President of NJPW in 1999 (he was nevertheless ousted in 2004). His last title reign in NJPW was an IWGP Tag Team Championship with disciple Osamu Nishimura in October 2001, and his last title shot ever was a Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship bout against Keiji Mutoh in December of the same year (Mutoh had not affiliated himself exclusively with AJPW at the time).\n\nIn 2006, after nearly 35 years in the company, Fujinami left NJPW, after giving an ultimatum of either Riki Choshu leave or Fujinami leave. New Japan stuck with Choshu, causing Fujinami to leave. Another veteran and Fujinami's long-time tag team partner, Kengo Kimura, would follow suit.\n\nRecently he and Nishimura began running their Muga promotion again, focusing on pure catch wrestling which seems to have been relegated by NJPW. In a tag team dream match, Fujinami, along with his close friend Nishimura beat Mitsuharu Misawa and Go Shiozaki in the main event of the first \"Muga World\" show. The name of Fujinami's new promotion has since been changed to Dradition, after the departure of Nishimura.\n\nOn August 18, 2012, Fujinami won his first title in eleven years, when he took part in Dramatic Dream Team's 15th anniversary event in Nippon Budokan, during which he and Mikami defeated Kudo and Makoto Oishi for the KO-D Tag Team Championship. Fujinami remains an active competitor even at the age of 63 and shows little sign of slowing down.\n\nOn March 19, 2015, it was announced that Fujinami would be inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame as part of the class of 2015. Fujinami was inducted by Ric Flair at the ceremony, which took place on March 28 in San Jose, California. On July 12, it was announced that Fujinami had signed a \"Legends\" deal with WWE. The contract effectively made him an ambassador for WWE, but did not restrict his Japanese bookings.\n\nFujinami is married to a woman named Kaori. Fujinami's son Leona made his professional wrestling debut for Dradition on November 19, 2013. He received a WWE tryout in July 2015.\n\nFujinami appears as a gang member in the 2017 video game \"Yakuza Kiwami 2\", alongside Genichiro Tenryu. He has also appeared as a playable wrestler in WWE 2k16 as DLC and in WWE 2K17 & WWE 2K18 as unlockable content.\n\n"}
{"id": "18721683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18721683", "title": "The Barbecue Bible", "text": "The Barbecue Bible\n\nThe Barbecue Bible by Steven Raichlen (1998, Workman), is the flagship title in a series of cookbooks written on grilling, barbecue, and other forms of outdoor cooking. Rather than focusing specifically on one style of barbecue, Raichlen documented four years worth of travels along what he considered the great \"barbecue belts\" in the world, which he categorized as North America/Caribbean, South America, Central Asia/Middle East, Mediterranean Europe, the western regions of Africa from Morocco to South Africa, and the eastern Pacific Rim from Korea to Indonesia. In addition to grill recipes for both meat and vegetables, the book includes substantial information on side dishes, drinks, and desserts, as well as numerous sidebars detailing Raichlen's experiences while researching the book.\n\nThe second edition of the flagship book was released in May 2008, and incorporated substantial amounts of color photography in a style similar to the earlier \"How To Grill\" book.\n\nThe books do not tie in directly to Raichlen's television show \"Barbecue U\", although they do share the same subject matter.\n\nIn addition to the first book in 1998, the \"Barbecue Bible\" series includes several more in-depth single or narrow-subject books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31467265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31467265", "title": "The Drummer (Flanagan)", "text": "The Drummer (Flanagan)\n\nThe Drummer is a bronze sculpture, by Barry Flanagan.\n\nIt is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.\n\n"}
{"id": "19597283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19597283", "title": "Third County Courthouse", "text": "Third County Courthouse\n\nThe Third County Courthouse is an 1837 Greek Revival building at 302 Center Street in Historic Richmond Town, near the geographic center of Staten Island, New York. Preceded by two smaller courthouses, it was the Richmond County Courthouse during most of the nineteenth century and was in use until 1919, when it was replaced by the Richmond County Courthouse in St. George.\n\nThe building is the oldest extant structure in New York City built primarily as a courthouse. A jail used to be adjacent. The building was the site of the sensational 1844 trial of Polly Bodine, who was accused of murdering her husband's sister and niece and setting fire to their house, a case commented on by Edgar Allan Poe and P. T. Barnum, among others. The packed trial resulted in a hung jury and then an early case of change of venue, first to Manhattan, which resulted in a conviction, later overturned, and then to Newburgh, New York, where Bodine was acquitted. \n\n"}
{"id": "3268207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3268207", "title": "United States Reports", "text": "United States Reports\n\nThe United States Reports are the official record (law reports) of the rulings, orders, case tables (list of every case decided), in alphabetical order both by the name of the petitioner (the losing party in lower courts) and by the name of the respondent (the prevailing party below)), and other proceedings of the Supreme Court of the United States. \"United States Reports\", once printed and bound, are the final version of court opinions and cannot be changed. Opinions of the court in each case are prepended with a headnote prepared by the Reporter of Decisions, and any concurring or dissenting opinions are published sequentially. The Court's Publication Office oversees the binding and publication of the volumes of \"United States Reports\", although the actual printing, binding, and publication are performed by private firms under contract with the United States Government Publishing Office.\n\nFor lawyers, citations to \"United States Reports\" are the standard reference for Supreme Court decisions. Following \"The Bluebook\", a commonly accepted citation protocol, the case \"Brown, et al., v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas\", for example, would be cited as:\n\nThis citation indicates that the decision of the Court in the case entitled \"Brown v. Board of Education\", as abbreviated in \"Bluebook\" style, was decided in 1954 and can be found in volume 347 of the \"United States Reports\" starting on page 483.\n\nThe early volumes of the \"United States Reports\" were originally published privately by the individual Supreme Court Reporters. As was the practice in England, the reports were designated by the names of the reporters who compiled them: \"Dallas's Reports\", \"Cranch's Reports\", etc.\n\nThe decisions appearing in the entire first volume and most of the second volume of \"United States Reports\" are not decisions of the United States Supreme Court. Instead, they are decisions from various Pennsylvania courts, dating from the colonial period and the first decade after Independence. Alexander Dallas, a lawyer and journalist, of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had been in the business of reporting these cases for newspapers and periodicals. He subsequently began compiling his case reports in a bound volume, which he called \"Reports of cases ruled and adjudged in the courts of Pennsylvania, before and since the Revolution\". This would come to be known as the first volume of \"Dallas Reports\".\n\nWhen the United States Supreme Court, along with the rest of the new Federal Government moved, in 1791, from New York City to the nation's temporary capital in Philadelphia, Dallas was appointed the Supreme Court's first unofficial, and unpaid, Supreme Court Reporter. (Court reporters in that age received no salary, but were expected to profit from the publication and sale of their compiled decisions.) Dallas continued to collect and publish Pennsylvania decisions in a second volume of his Reports. When the Supreme Court began hearing cases, he added those cases to his reports, starting towards the end of the second volume, \"2 Dallas Reports\", with \"West v. Barnes\" (1791). Dallas went on to publish a total of four volumes of decisions during his tenure as Reporter.\n\nWhen the Supreme Court moved to Washington, D.C. in 1800, Dallas remained in Philadelphia, and William Cranch took over as unofficial reporter of decisions. In 1817, Congress made the Reporter of Decisions an official, salaried position, although the publication of the Reports remained a private enterprise for the reporter's personal gain. The reports themselves were the subject of an early copyright case, \"Wheaton v. Peters\", in which former reporter Henry Wheaton sued then current reporter Richard Peters for reprinting cases from \"Wheaton's Reports\" in abridged form.\n\nIn 1874, the U.S. government began to fund the reports' publication (), creating the \"United States Reports\". The earlier, private reports were retroactively numbered volumes 1–90 of the \"United States Reports\", starting from the first volume of \"Dallas Reports\". Therefore, decisions appearing in these early reports have dual citation forms: one for the volume number of the United States Reports; and one for the set of nominate reports. For example, the complete citation to \"McCulloch v. Maryland\" is 17 U.S. (4 Wheat.) 316 (1819).\n\n\n"}
