{"id": "33901720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33901720", "title": "2012 United States Women's Curling Championship – Qualification", "text": "2012 United States Women's Curling Championship – Qualification\n\nQualification for the 2012 United States Women's Curling Championship took place in one round in January in Marshfield, Wisconsin. The number of entrants to the national championships was cut down to ten teams through a challenge round.\n\nTeams qualified for the women's nationals either by qualifying automatically as one of the top four teams on the World Curling Tour Order of Merit or by qualifying through the challenge round. The four teams that qualified automatically to the championships, an increase from last year's two teams qualified through the Order of Merit, were chosen based on the Order of Merit upon the conclusion of the Curl Mesabi Cash Spiel. This year, the teams are those skipped by Erika Brown, Rebecca Hamilton, Patti Lank, and Alexandra Carlson. The other six spots in the nationals will be awarded through competition in the challenge round.\n\nThe challenge round was held with the double knockout provision in place. The double knockout provision states that a team is eliminated from qualifying for the nationals if the team has at least two losses in their win-loss record. If there are teams with less than two losses, they will play each other until the number of teams still able to qualify matches the number of qualification spots available.\n\nSince there are more than ten teams registered to the nationals this year, the teams that did not qualify directly for the nationals competed to earn one of six remaining spots in the nationals through the challenge round, which was held from January 19 to 22 in Marshfield, Wisconsin. The challenge round was held in a knockout format, as decided by the organizing committee. The teams that advanced from the challenge round were those skipped by Maureen Stolt, Cassandra Potter, Janice Langanke, Allison Pottinger, Aileen Sormunen, Kimberly Wapola.\n\nThe challenge round was held from January 19 to 22 at the Marshfield Curling Club in Marshfield, Wisconsin. It was held in a triple knockout format. Teams skipped by Maureen Stolt, Cassandra Potter, Janice Langanke, Allison Pottinger, Aileen Sormunen, and Kimberly Wapola advanced to the Nationals.\n\nThe following is a list of all teams registered to participate in the regional qualifiers.\n\n\"Friday, January 20, 2:00 pm\"\n\n\"Team Ellig was unable to field four registered players to start the competition, by rule an automatic forfeit.\"\n\n\"Friday, January 20, 7:00 pm\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 21, 9:00 am\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 21, 2:00 pm\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 21, 7:00 pm\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 22, 8:00 am\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 22, 1:00 pm\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 22, 6:00 pm\"\n"}
{"id": "41599710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41599710", "title": "2014 United States Men's Curling Championship – Qualification", "text": "2014 United States Men's Curling Championship – Qualification\n\nQualification for the 2014 United States Men's Curling Championship consisted of three different paths. Four teams qualified directly through the High Performance Program or the Order of Merit system. The number of the remaining entrants to the national championships was cut down to six teams through a challenge round held in early January.\n\nTeams can qualify to participate in the men's national championship through the High Performance Program, through the World Curling Tour Order of Merit, or through a challenge round.\n\nTwo spots in the nationals were awarded to two teams on the United States Curling Association's High Performance National Program. The teams qualified through the High Performance Program were those skipped by John Shuster and Pete Fenson. Two more spots were awarded to the top two men's teams on the World Curling Tour Order of Merit standings table at the year's end. The teams qualified through the Order of Merit were those skipped by Heath McCormick and Brady Clark.\n\nThe remaining six spots in the nationals will be awarded to the teams that earn qualification spots through the challenge round. The challenge round will be held in a triple knockout format.\n\nThe challenge round for the men's nationals will be held from January 9 to 12 at the Four Seasons Curling Club in Blaine, Minnesota.\n\n\"Thursday, January 9, 7:00 pm\"\n\n\"Friday, January 10, 9:00 am\"\n\n\"Friday, January 10, 2:00 pm\"\n\n\"Friday, January 10, 7:00 pm\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 11, 9:00 am\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 11, 2:00 pm\"\n\n\"Saturday, January 11, 7:00 pm\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 12, 9:00 am\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 12, 2:00 pm\"\n\n\"Sunday, January 12, 7:00 pm\"\n"}
{"id": "43193546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43193546", "title": "27 (opera)", "text": "27 (opera)\n\n27 (or Twenty-Seven) is an opera by composer Ricky Ian Gordon and librettist Royce Vavrek in a prologue and five acts that explores the relationship of Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas, and the salons that they hosted at their residence at 27 rue de Fleurus in Paris. Commissioned by Opera Theatre of Saint Louis for mezzo-soprano Stephanie Blythe, the opera premiered on June 14, 2014, in a production directed by James Robinson at the Loretto-Hilton Center in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nPittsburgh Opera staged the work in February 2016. The work was premiered in New York City in October 2016 at New York City Center with Stephanie Blythe, Heidi Stober, Theo Lebow, , and Daniel Brevik. Ted Sperling conducted the Orchestra of St. Luke's and Gordon composed new material specially for the MasterVoices chorus.\n\n\"The St. Louis American\" called the world premiere production of \"27\" a \"flawless commissioned portrait of Gertrude Stein,\" while Ray Mark Rinaldi of \"The Denver Post\" said that the opera \"tells a great American story, as well as American opera in the 21st century\" suggesting that \"it is every century's job to define the century before it, and \"27\" isn't afraid to do that with certainty and depth.\" In her review for the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\", Sarah Bryan Miller called the work \"serious fun\" praising Gordon's creation of \"hummable tunes and recurring themes, drama and sweetness, in a well-wrought score. Vavrek is Steinian without stealing Stein and keeps the story moving, for a clever, witty libretto,\" while Anne Midgette of \"The Washington Post\" wrote that \"[Gordon] clearly found much to inspire him in this libretto and subject, to judge from a score that has an engaging vitality from the opening bars, and is delightfully studded with allusions (a touch of \"Lakmé\", a hint of \"Vanessa\") and adroit vocal ensembles.\" Heidi Waleson of \"The Wall Street Journal\" commented that \"[t]he first thing that you notice about Ricky Ian Gordon's \"27\", an opera about Gertrude Stein that recently had its world premiere at Opera Theatre of Saint Louis, is that it moves. Royce Vavrek, the librettist, taking his cue from Stein's own short phrases and cells of text, created a playful, quick-witted libretto that pushed Mr. Gordon beyond his trademark melodies into a brighter, friskier style.\" Critic Scott Cantrell of \"The Dallas Morning News\" wrote that \"\"27\" is an unabashedly populist treatment of a yeasty artistic period, in musical idioms that wouldn't have raised an eyebrow in 1920s Paris,\" and further described Gordon's score as \"tuneful, Frenchified neoclassicism\" likening it to the work of Lennox Berkeley and Aaron Copland.\n\nAll five singers received unanimous praise, with Blythe garnering rapturous notices for her portrayal of Stein, and Futral celebrated for her performance as Toklas: \"It is no small matter that the piece was written for Stephanie Blythe, an outsize personality herself, whose grand, multifaceted mezzo brings the character to vibrant life.\" (Waleson, \"Wall Street Journal\") \"Stephanie Blythe is Gertrude; Elizabeth Futral is Alice. Individually and together, they are brilliant, as is the rest of the cast.\" (Robert W. Duffy, St. Louis Public Radio) \"[A] good vehicle for Blythe, who can handle the turns and whose natural magnetism goes a long way toward helping us understand the power Stein had over her world. Futral, one of the better singing actresses working today, makes the relationship believable.\" (Rinaldi, \"Denver Post\") \"[W]ith sublime, powerful, expressive voices, superstars Stephanie Blythe and Elizabeth Futral were a joy to behold, deserving of their robust ovations. [...] Remember the names Theo Lebow, Tobias Greenhalgh and Daniel Brevik. They excelled at portraying all the male characters distinctively and effortlessly, showcasing solid acting and strong singing in intricate, demanding supporting roles.\" (Lynn Venhaus, \"Belleville News-Democrat\")\n"}
{"id": "15765163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15765163", "title": "Aluth Sahal Mangallaya", "text": "Aluth Sahal Mangallaya\n\nThe Aluth Sahal Mangalle or the New Rice Festival is a harvest festival of the Maha kannaya in Sri Lanka. The first batch of new rice after being plucked, threshed and winnowed is offered to the Lord Buddha and deities.\n\nEvery January Poya Day, new rice festival commences. Rice and paddy donated to Temple of the Tooth are stored at Kundasale Pallekele in a separate location allocation and distribution of Rice and paddy to Devales relevant, is done. A traditional procession takes place from the Palace to Kundasale headed by Diyawadaered to the sacred tooth relic.\n\nOnly after the new rice festival at the Sri Dalada Maligawa and offering rice to the sacred tooth relic, can the farmers around the country collect their harvest and commence their own new rice festivals in the respective villages.\n\nThe most important new rice festival that happens afterwards is the Aluth Sahal Mangalle at the Sri Maha Bodhi in Anuradhapura.\n\nThis festival was started by a king called Sri weera parakrama narendrasinghe in 1707. Diyawadana Nilame does the main part in this festival. This is about the first harvest in paddy situated in kundasale. Diyawadana nilame and the rest of the people got Kundasale with perahara and take the harvest and come back to the temple of tooth relic. This is done in nice fashion always, according to the tradition these traditions are done in much respect, for tooth relic of Lord Buddha. A man called Nakath Mohottala also does a main part in this festival. He prepares an agenda called 'Nakth pathraya' and whole things were done on it.\n"}
{"id": "43683196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43683196", "title": "American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War", "text": "American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War\n\nThe American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War refers to US support of Syrian opposition and the Federation of Northern Syria during the course of the Syrian Civil War, and active involvement of US military against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant and against the al-Nusra Front from 2014. Since 2017, the US and some other Coalition nations have also targeted military positions of the Syrian Government.\n\nThe United States first supplied the rebels of the Free Syrian Army with non-lethal aid (including food rations and pickup trucks), but quickly began providing training, cash, and intelligence to selected Syrian rebel commanders. During the Syrian Civil War, which began in 2011, two US programs attempted to assist the Syrian rebels. One was a military program that planned to train and equip 15,000 Syrian rebels, but was canceled in 2015 after spending $500 million and producing only a few dozen fighters. A $1 billion covert program run by the CIA was more successful, but was decimated by Russian bombing and canceled in mid-2017 by the Trump administration.\n\nThe United States began surveillance missions on Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) positions in Syria in September 2014. On 22 September 2014, the United States, Bahrain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates began to attack the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant forces inside Syria, as well as the Khorasan group in the Idlib Governorate to the west of Aleppo and the al-Nusra Front around Raqqa, as part of the military intervention against ISIL.\n\nThe missile strike on the Shayrat Airbase conducted by the U.S. on 7 April 2017, was the first time the US has become a deliberate direct combatant against the Syrian government, and marked the start of a series of deliberate direct military action by the U.S. military against the Syrian government′s and pro-government forces in May–June 2017 and February 2018. According to a report by Amnesty International, the US-led coalition has provided falsified data to conceal the actual number of civilian deaths resulting from their bombing campaigns and is \"deeply in denial\" about civilian casualties in Raqqa. After an investigation by Amnesty International in June 2018, the US-led coalition confirmed that \"coalition air strikes killed 70 civilians, mostly women and children – including 39 members of a single family.\"\n\nIn mid-January 2018, the Trump administration indicated that it intended to maintain an open-ended military presence in Syria to counter Iran's influence and oust Syrian president Bashar Assad. In early September 2018 the United States started to implement a new strategy that indefinitely extends the military effort and launches a major diplomatic push to achieve American objectives in Syria.\n\nUS State Department cables indicate that regime change was a secret goal of the American government in the years leading up to the civil war, even during the period when Barack Obama was publicly engaging with Bashar Al-Assad. A 2006 memorandum by William Roebuck of the embassy in Damascus stated:We believe Bashar's weaknesses are in how he chooses to react to looming issues, both perceived and real, such as...the potential threat to the regime from the increasing presence of transiting Islamist extremists. This cable summarizes our assessment of these vulnerabilities and suggests that there may be actions, statements and signals that the USG can send that will improve the likelihood of such opportunities arising.Roebuck, who went on to be charge d'affair of the Libyan embassy under Obama, also considered the advantages of promoting religious sectarianism in Syria.\n\nFollowing the start of the Arab Spring in 2011, protests in Syria against the Assad administration were violently suppressed and a civil war began. By 2012 there were several armed opposition groups operating in the country, including the Free Syrian Army, formed in July 2011 by officers who defected from the Syrian Armed Forces. In 2012, the al-Nusra Front was established by the Islamic State of Iraq as the official branch of \"al-Qaeda in Syria\". The al-Nusra Front was eclipsed by its own creator, and al-Qaeda severed its ties to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in February 2014, after an eight-month power struggle.\nAt the direction of U.S. President Barack Obama, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) was put in charge of the operations, worth about $1 billion annually, to arm anti-government forces in Syria, an operation which formally began in 2013, more than two years after the start of the civil war in 2011. Prior to 2013, the CIA only supplied certain rebel groups of the Free Syrian Army with non-lethal aid, but later began providing training, funding, and intelligence to selected rebel commanders. Although a former intelligence adviser who spoke to journalist Seymour Hersh claimed the CIA had been facilitating the flow of arms from Libya to Syria in collaboration with \"the UK <nowiki>[</nowiki>United Kingdom<nowiki>]</nowiki>, Saudi Arabia and Qatar\" since 2012 or 2011, the first confirmed CIA weapons arrived in Spring 2014: \"There were just a handful, delivered to only one rebel group carefully vetted by the CIA. The group, Harakat Hazm, or the Steadfast Movement, showed off the new weapons system by posting the first successful strike on YouTube in April. Another of the groups being vetted was the Islamist Army of Mujahedeen, formed in January 2014 specifically to combat ISIS. However, there were indications that the Army of Mujahedeen was still being vetted in September 2014.\n\nIn addition to the CIA program, on 17 September 2014 the U.S. House of Representatives voted to authorize the executive branch to overtly train and equip Syrian rebels against ISIL forces, at a cost of $500 million. The United States was set to send 400 troops and hundreds of support staff to countries neighboring Syria to train 5,000 opposition soldiers a year for the next three years. The countries taking part in the train-and-equip program were to include Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey. The groups that were expected to be armed and trained by the US government included fighters from the Free Syrian Army. In October 2014, the Turkish government agreed to help train and equip some moderate Syrian rebels in Turkey. The Pentagon confirmed that it had selected 1,200 Syrian opposition members to begin training in March 2015, with 3,000 to complete training by the end of 2015.\n\nThe successful experience in Kobanî had informed U.S. policy in regard to arming Syrian opposition groups other than the Kurdish YPG, with plans to give other groups technicals equipped with radio and GPS equipment to call in airstrikes. John R. Allen, President Obama's envoy to the international coalition against ISIL, has said \"It is clearly part of our plan, that not only we will train them, and we will equip them with the latest weapons systems, but we will also protect them when the time comes\". In March 2015, the United Kingdom announced that it was sending around 75 military instructors to train Syrian opposition forces. The train-and-equip programme started on 9 May 2015. On 25 May, Turkey and the U.S. agreed \"in principle\" on the necessity to support these forces with air support.\n\nHowever, only about 200 rebel fighters actually began training, the majority of whom left after being required to agree to fight only against ISIL and not the Assad government.\n\nFollowing the abduction of a number of foreigners in Syria, on 4 July 2014, the U.S. carried out an operation to rescue foreign hostages being held by ISIL. U.S. airstrikes were conducted against an ISIL military base known as the \"Osama bin Laden Camp\" while at the same time, two dozen US special forces soldiers parachuted from helicopters near an ISIS building, thought to be for high-value prisoners. No prisoners were found in the building and the soldiers were quickly engaged by ISIL forces dispatched from Raqqa, which started a three-hour firefight. U.S. forces concluded that the hostages were no longer at the site and abandoned the rescue attempt. At least five ISIL fighters were killed and one U.S. soldier was wounded. Jordanian forces were also reportedly involved in the operation, with one Jordanian soldier reportedly wounded, but Jordanian involvement was not confirmed. Later on, it was reported that the hostages had been moved 24 hours before the attempted rescue. Following the mission, it was still unclear whether the operation failed due to bad intelligence or whether ISIL forces were alerted in advance of the mission.\n\nIn the aftermath of the rescue mission, and purportedly as a response to airstrikes in Iraq, ISIL beheaded three hostages over a one-month period: Americans James Foley and Steven Sotloff on 19 August and 2 September respectively, and Briton David Haines on 13 September.\n\nOn 26 August 2014, the U.S. began sending surveillance flights, including drones, over Syria to gather intelligence on ISIL targets. The flights began gathering intelligence that would aid future airstrikes even though airstrikes were not yet authorized at that point. No approval was sought from the Assad government for flights entering Syrian airspace.\n\nAs the Siege of Kobanî continued there were growing calls to also arm the YPG, also known as the People's Protection Units, a Kurdish fighting force in Syria heavily involved in the defense of Kobanî. On 20 October 2014, the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu announced that the Turkish government would be allowing peshmerga from the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Government to cross their border into Kobanî to support Kurdish fighters. The change in policy came after the Turkish government had refused to allow Kurdish fighters and supplies to pass through the border to YPG units in Kobanî, as it viewed the YPG as an offshoot of the PKK. On 28 October, Peshmerga from the Iraqi Kurdistan Regional Government departed Erbil to travel to Turkey and eventually to Kobanî. A total of 152 soldiers were deployed starting with forty vehicles carrying weapons, artillery, and machine guns, along with 80 Peshmerga forces, who crossed the border into Turkey by land with the heavy weapons and then drove to the border near Kobanî. The other 72 soldiers in the contingent flew to Turkey and rejoined the rest of the contingent on 29 October. On 29 October 152 Kurdish Peshmerga from Iraq and 50 Free Syrian Army fighters crossed the border into Kobanî with heavy weapons, small arms, and ammunition.\n\nThe United States had since 2014 led efforts to establish a global coalition to counter ISIL.\n\nOn 5 September, 15 September, and 3 December 2014, various sets of countries came together to discuss concerted action against ISIL. Present at all three meetings were the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Turkey and Denmark.\n\nThe coalition of 5 September (10 countries) decided to support anti-ISIL forces in Iraq and Syria. On 10 September 2014, U.S. president Barack Obama announced a ″comprehensive″ strategy to counter ISIL that ″in concert with\ncoalition partners <...> will defeat ISIL and deny them safe haven″.\n\nThe coalition of 3 December 2014 (sixty countries) that styled itself as the \"Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL)\" agreed on a many-sided strategy against ISIL, including cutting off ISIL's financing and funding and exposing ISIL's true nature. As of March 2015, the U.S.-led coalition comprised over sixty countries, that contributed in various ways to the effort.\n\nAs of mid-2015, only a group of 54 such fighters (Division 30) had been deployed, which was quickly routed by al-Nusra, and a further 100 trained in Jordan. In September it was reported that a further 100-120 were being trained in a second wave, with 75 more Division 30 fighters reported to have re-entered Syria at the end of the month, immediately attacked by al-Nusra.\n\nIn March 2015, the United Kingdom announced that it would provide military training to Syrian moderate opposition forces, to enable them to defend Syrian communities against ISIL, and later also lead offensives against ISIL.\n\n\"Jane's Defence Weekly\" reported that in December 2015 the U.S. shipped 994 tonnes of weapons and ammunition (including packaging and container weight), generally of Soviet-type from Eastern Europe, to Syrian rebel groups under operation Timber Sycamore. A detailed list of weapon types and shipment weights had been obtained from the US government's Federal Business Opportunities website. As of July 2016, extensive arms shipments were continuing.\n\nIt was reported in July 2017 that the Donald Trump administration decided to \"phase-out\" the CIA program to equip and train anti-government rebel groups, a move sought by Russia.\n\nIn his address to the nation on 10 September 2014, U.S. President Obama announced his intention to bomb ISIL targets in Syria and called on Congress to authorize a program to train and arm rebels who were fighting ISIL and the Syrian forces of Bashar al-Assad. For the first time, he authorized direct attacks against the militant group in Syria. In his address, he said the United States were going on offensive, launching \"a steady, relentless effort to take out\" the group \"wherever they exist.\" Obama also announced creating of a broader coalition against ISIL.\n\nCommenting on Obama's address, Russian Foreign Ministry spokesman opposed the U.S. intervention against ISIL in Syria \"without the consent of the legitimate government\" and said that \"this step, in the absence of a UN Security Council decision, would be an act of aggression, a gross violation of international law\". Ali Haidar, Syrian minister of national reconciliation, said that \"any action of any kind without the consent of the Syrian government would be an attack on Syria\".\n\nOn 17 September, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Obama's plan to train and arm the Syrian rebels in their fight against ISIL. In a statement following the House vote, Obama said that the United States wouldn't send military troops to Syria. The Senate gave final congressional approval to Obama's proposal the next day.\n\nThe U.S. did not request permission from the Syrian government, nor did it coordinate its actions with the Syrian government, provide direct notification to the Syrian military or give indication of timing on specific targets, but it did notify the Syrian U.N. representative, which the Syrian government confirmed.\n\nBefore the airstrikes began, the United States also informed Iran, the Assad government's largest regional ally, of their intention to launch airstrikes. It did not share specific timing or targets of strikes with the Iranian government but reportedly assured it that the US would not strike any Syrian government targets.\n\n\nOn 22 September, Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Admiral John Kirby confirmed that the United States and other partner nations had undertaken strikes in Syria using fighters, bombers, and Tomahawk missiles in strikes authorized by President Barack Obama. Bahrain, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates were identified as countries conducting or supporting airstrikes the first night. The initial strikes were coordinated by United States Central Command and targeted about 20 Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant targets, including headquarters buildings. Sources in Syria claimed that among the targets was also Brigade 93, a Syrian army base that the militants had recently captured and targets in the towns of Tabqa and Tel Abyad in Raqqa Province.\n\nThe U.S. also targeted the al-Qaeda-affiliated al-Nusra Front and the Khorasan Group in the Aleppo and Idlib Governorates of Syria.\n\nF-22 Raptor stealth fighters were reported to be among the U.S. aircraft striking targets in Syria on the first night of the campaign, carrying out their first combat missions ever since entering service in 2005.\n\nAt least 70 ISIL fighters, 50 fighters affiliated with al-Qaeda, and an unknown number of civilians were killed overnight by the airstrikes, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights while eight strikes were launched against the Khorasan group.\n\nOn 24 September, the United States and coalition partners conducted a second round of airstrikes on ISIL facilities in Syria. The airstrikes were targeting oil production facilities controlled by ISIL who had been using the oil in order to fund their activities. Some targets were apparently also mobile production facilities which were most likely not refineries.\n\nIn a third round of airstrikes on ISIL targets on 25 September, Arab partners lead the United States in strikes against militant-held oil facilities in northeastern Syria. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates dropped 80 percent of the bomb tonnage in the third round of strikes, compared to other strikes in which the United States lead Arab partners.\n\nOn 26 September, the United States carried out a fourth round of airstrikes on ISIL targets in Eastern Syria. The strikes were targeting IS heavy equipment and destroyed four of their tanks in the Deir ez-Zor Province.\n\nIn a fifth round of airstrikes in Syria on 27 September, the United States lead strikes along with Saudi Arabia, Jordan and the United Arab Emirates against ISIL forces in the Kobanî Canton of Syrian Kurdistan. The strikes destroyed two armored vehicles and an unknown number of fighters in an area that had been put under siege by ISIL militants. The siege by Islamic State fighters had recently forced over 100,000 Syrian Kurds to flee across the border to Turkey.\n\nOn 28 and 29 September, the United States carried out two rounds of strikes against IS positions across Syria in 4 provinces. Among the facilities targeted was the entrance to the largest gas plant in Syria, in the Deir ez-Zor Province, and ISIL training camp and vehicles near an ISIL controlled grain silo in Manbij, Aleppo province.\n\nIn an eighth round of airstrikes in Syria on 1 October, the United States and coalition partners struck ISIL targets in Northern Syria. The daytime strikes targeted ISIL forces laying siege to Kobanî, a primarily Kurdish city in Syrian Kurdistan, in support of the People's Protection Units (YPG) and Free Syrian Army, who were defending the city.\n\nOn 2 October, the United States lead a ninth round of strikes, along with the United Arab Emirates, against ISIL forces across Syria. The strikes destroyed an ISIL checkpoint near Kobanî, damaged a tank north of Sinjar Mountain, destroyed a tank west of Raqqa, and several ISIL facilities east of Aleppo.\n\nIn a tenth round of airstrikes in Syria on 3 October, the United States, assisted by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates struck ISIL forces in Northern and Eastern Syria. The strikes destroyed an ISIL garrison south of Al-Hasakah, destroyed two tanks southeast of Deir ez-Zor, destroyed two modular oil refineries and a training camp south of Raqqa, and struck an ISIL building northeast of Aleppo.\n\nOn 4 October, the United States lead an 11th round of airstrikes, along with Jordan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, against ISIL forces across Syria. The US and partner nations carried out nine strikes, destroying an ISIL infantry unit, armored personnel carrier, and a vehicle south of Kobanî, destroying a tank and a vehicle southeast of Deir ez-Zor, damaging the Taqba airfield and destroying an artillery piece near Raqqa, as well as destroying an IS depot and logistics complex south of Al-Hasakah.\n\nIn a 12th round of airstrikes in Syria on 5 October, the United States carried out three airstrikes against ISIL forces in Central and Eastern Syria. The strikes destroyed an ISIL bulldozer, two ISIL tanks and another vehicle northwest of Mayadin, and destroyed six firing positions and a large ISIL unit northwest of Raqqa.\n\nOn 6 October, the United States carried out a 13th round of airstrikes in Syria against ISIL forces across Syria. The strikes destroyed an ISIL tank near Taqba airfield west of Raqqa, destroyed two fighting positions south of Kobanî, and destroyed a tank southeast of Deir ez-Zor.\n\nIn a 14th round of airstrikes in Syria on 7 October, the United States, assisted by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against ISIL forces across Syria. The United States and partner nations carried out nine strikes damaging multiple ISIL controlled buildings west of Al-Hasakah, damaging a staging area and IED production facility northeast of Deir ez-Zor, destroying three armed vehicles, damaging one armed vehicle, destroying a vehicle carrying anti-aircraft artillery, destroying an ISIL tank, and an ISIL unit in and around Kobanî, and killing a small group of fighters southwest of Rabiyah.\n\nOn 8 October, the United States lead a 15th round of airstrikes along with the United Arab Emirates against ISIL forces across Syria. The US and the United Arab Emirates carried out nine strikes destroying an armored personnel carrier, four armed vehicles, an artillery piece, and damaged another armed vehicle in and around Kobanî, striking an ISIL training camp and fighters northwest of Raqqa, and destroying a tank northwest of Deir ez-Zor.\n\nIn a 16th round of airstrikes in Syria on 9 October, the United States carried out nine airstrikes in the areas in and around the border town of Kobanî that is under siege. The US carried out six airstrikes south of Kobanî that destroyed two ISIL-held buildings, one tank and one heavy machine gun along, a fighting position along with one large and two small ISIL units. Along with strikes south of Kobanî, the US carried out three airstrikes north of Kobanî which struck two small ISIL units and destroyed two ISIL-held buildings.\n\nOn 10 October, the United States led a 17th round of airstrikes along with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against ISIL forces across Syria. The US and coalition partners carried out nine strikes, destroying two ISIL training facilities, three vehicles, damaging a tank and striking two ISIL units in and around Kobanî. The strikes also destroyed an armored vehicle staging facility east of Deir ez-Zor and struck a small ISIL unit northeast of Al-Hasakah.\n\nIn an 18th round of airstrikes in Syria on 11 October, the United States carried out six airstrikes in and around the border town of Kobanî that is under siege by ISIL forces. The US carried out four strikes north of Kobanî striking a fighting position, damaging a command and control facility, destroying a staging building, and striking two small ISIL units. South of Kobanî, two airstrikes destroyed three trucks.\n\nOn 12 October, the United States led a 19th round of airstrikes along with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against ISIL forces across Syria. The US and partner nations carried out four strikes, three in Kobanî, destroying a fighting position and a staging area, and one strike northwest of Raqqa, destroying an armored vehicle compound.\n\nAlso, on 12 October, the United States announced that the Turkish government had approved the use of Turkish military bases by coalition forces fighting ISIL in Syria and Iraq. These installations will include key bases only from the Syrian border and important US military bases in Turkey such as the Incirlik Air Base. Despite the announcement of Turkish government approval, on 13 October, Turkish officials denied that any agreement had been made over coalition use of Turkish Airbases including Incirlik.\n\nIn a 20th round of airstrikes in Syria on 13 October, the United States and Saudi Arabia carried out eight airstrikes against ISIL forces in Syria. The United States and Saudi Arabia carried out seven strikes in and around Kobanî, striking a large ISIL unit, two small units; damaging one staging location and destroying another, destroying a heavy-machine-gun firing position, destroying three buildings, and damaging two others. One other strike northwest of Raqqa struck an ISIL garrison.\n\nOn 14 October, the United States and Saudi Arabia carried out the 21st round and the largest set of strikes against ISIL in Syria since the beginning of the intervention, with 21 strikes against targets in and around Kobanî, and an additional strike near Deir ez-Zor. According to the Department of Defense, the strikes were designed to interdict ISIL reinforcements and resupply zones and prevent ISIL from massing combat power on the Kurdish held portions of Kobanî. The strikes destroyed two staging locations and damaged another, destroyed one ISIL building and damaged two others, damaged three ISIL compounds, destroyed one truck, one armed vehicle, and one other vehicle near Kobanî in support of Kurdish forces resisting the |siege of the town. In addition to those targets, the airstrikes struck seven staging areas, two mortar positions, three ISIL occupied buildings, and an artillery storage facility. An additional strike near Deir ez-Zor struck a modular oil refinery.\n\nIn a 22nd round of airstrikes on 15 October, the United States carried out 18 strikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed multiple fighting positions and also successfully struck sixteen ISIL-occupied buildings.\n\nOn 16 October, the United States carried out a 23rd round of airstrikes with 14 airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî striking nineteen ISIL controlled-buildings, two command posts, three fighting positions, three sniper positions, one staging location, and one heavy machine gun position.\n\nIn a 24th round of airstrikes on 17 October, the United States carried out seven airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî and in north-eastern Syria. Six airstrikes took place near Kobanî, striking three ISIL controlled buildings; destroyed two fighting positions, suppressed three fighting positions, and destroyed two vehicles. One other airstrike near Al-Shaddadi struck ISIL-controlled oil collection equipment, including several petroleum, oil, and lubricants tanks, and a pump station.\n\nOn 20 October, the United States carried out a 25th round of airstrikes, with six airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed ISIL fighting positions, ISIL mortar positions, a vehicle, and one stray equipment supply bundle from a U.S. airdrop of Kurdish supplies in order to prevent the supplies from being captured.\n\nIn a 26th round of airstrikes on 21 October, the United States carried out four airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed several ISIL fighting positions, an ISIL controlled building, and a large ISIL unit. The British Royal Air Force began operating over Syria in a surveillance role on the same date, making the UK the first Western country other than the United States to operate in both Iraq and Syria simultaneously.\n\nOn 22 October, the United States carried out a 27th round of airstrikes with six airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed several ISIL fighting positions, two ISIL vehicles, an ISIL controlled building and an ISIL logistical center.\n\nIn a 28th round of airstrikes on 23 October, the United States carried out six airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Four strikes destroyed several ISIL fighting positions, an ISIL vehicle, and an ISIL command and control center near Kobanî. Two strikes east of Deir ez-Zor destroyed several ISIL oil holding tanks.\n\nOn 24 October, the United States carried out a 29th round of airstrikes with six airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed an ISIL vehicle and struck three ISIL units.\n\nIn a 30th round of airstrikes on 25 October, the United States carried out one strike near Kobanî, destroying an ISIL artillery piece.\n\nOn 26 October, the United States carried out a 31st round of airstrikes with five airstrikes against ISIL targets near Kobanî, destroying seven ISIL vehicles and an ISIL-controlled building.\n\nIn a 32nd round of airstrikes on 27 October, the United States carried out four strikes near Kobanî, destroying five ISIL vehicles and an ISIL occupied building.\n\nOn 28 October, the United States carried out a 33rd round of airstrikes, with four airstrikes against ISIL targets near Kobanî, destroying four ISIL fighting positions and a small ISIL unit.\n\nIn a 34th round of airstrikes on 29 October, the United States carried out eight airstrikes in and around Kobanî. The strikes destroyed five ISIL fighting positions, a small ISIL unit, six ISIL vehicles, an ISIL controlled building, and an ISIL command and control node.\n\nOn 30 October, the United States carried out a 35th round of airstrikes, with 12 airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî, and against targets near Deir ez-Zor and Raqqa. Ten strikes near Kobanî struck two small ISIL units, destroyed seven ISIL fighting positions, and five ISIL controlled buildings. One strike near Deir ez-Zor damaged an ISIL headquarters building while another strike near Raqqa damaged an ISIL security building.\n\nIn a 36th round of airstrikes on 31 October, the United States carried out four airstrikes in and around Kobanî, damaging four ISIL fighting positions and an ISIL controlled building.\n\nOn 1 November, the United States carried out a 37th round of airstrikes with five airstrikes against ISIL targets in and around Kobanî. The strikes suppressed or destroyed nine ISIL fighting positions, and struck one ISIL-controlled building.\n\nIn a 38th round of airstrikes on 2 November, the United States carried out seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Five airstrikes in and around Kobanî struck five small ISIL units and destroyed three ISIL vehicles. Two airstrikes southeast of Deir ez-Zor destroyed an ISIL tank and two vehicle shelters.\n\nOn 3 November, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 39th round of airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Four airstrikes in and around Kobanî struck an ISIL fighting position, a small ISIL unit, and destroyed two ISIL controlled buildings. One airstrike near Deir ez-Zor damaged an ISIL controlled building.\n\nIn a 40th round of airstrikes on 4 and 5 November, the United States carried out six airstrikes in and around Kobanî and north of Sinjar just across the Iraqi-Syrian border into Syria. Three airstrikes in and around Kobanî struck a small ISIL unit, two ISIL fighting positions, and an ISIL dump truck that was used in the construction of fighting positions. One airstrike north of Sinjar destroyed an ISIL fighting position used to launch mortar attacks, and struck a small ISIL unit manning the position. Two additional strikes north of Sinjar struck a small ISIL unit and destroyed an ISIL armored vehicle.\n\nOn 6 and 7 November, the United States carried out a 41st round of airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Tal Abyad. Seven strikes in and around Kobanî struck three small ISIL units, seven ISIL fighting positions, and destroyed an ISIL artillery piece. One airstrike near Tal Abyad destroyed an ISIL weapons stockpile.\n\nIn a 42nd round of airstrikes between 8 and 10 November, the United States carried out 23 airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Thirteen airstrikes conducted in and around Kobanî struck an ISIL vehicle and five small ISIL units, destroyed an ISIL-occupied building used as an ammunition stockpile, an ISIL command and control building, and seven ISIL fighting positions, as well as damaging two ISIL fighting positions. In addition, eight airstrikes southeast of Deir ez-Zor damaged several structures of an ISIL oil collection facility, which was used to trans-load oil for the black market, while two airstrikes east of Deir ez-Zor damaged an ISIL oil collection point.\n\nBetween 11 and 12 November, the United States carried out a 43rd round of airstrikes with sixteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Deir ez-Zor, and near Al-Hasakah. Ten airstrikes conducted in and around Kobanî struck eight small ISIL units, damaged three ISIL fighting positions, and destroyed an ISIL logistics facility. Four airstrikes near Deir ez-Zor damaged an ISIL crude oil collection facility, struck a small ISIL unit, and damaged an ISIL vehicle. Two airstrikes near Al-Hasakah damaged a crude oil collection point.\n\nIn a 44th round of airstrikes between 13 and 14 November, the United States carried out 20 airstrikes in and around Kobanî, east of Deir ez-Zor, west of Aleppo, and east of Raqqa. Seventeen airstrikes conducted in and around Kobanî struck ten ISIL units, destroyed 10 fighting positions, an ISIL controlled building, two ISIL vehicles, and an ISIL motorcycle. One airstrike east of Raqqa destroyed an ISIL training camp and another airstrike east of Deir ez-Zor destroyed an ISIL oil collection point. One other airstrike west of Aleppo struck militants associated with the Khorasan group.\n\nBetween 15 and 17 November, the United States carried out a 45th round of airstrikes with eleven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Nine airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed seven ISIL fighting positions, suppressed an ISIL fighting position, destroyed four ISIL staging areas, and struck one tactical ISIL unit. Two airstrikes near Deir ez-Zor struck an ISIL crude oil collection facility and destroyed one ISIL tank.\n\nIn a 46th round of airstrikes between 18 and 19 November, the United States carried out seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî, southeast of Al-Hasakah, and near Hazm. Five airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed an ISIL fighting position, an ISIL staging area and three ISIL controlled buildings, suppressed two ISIL fighting positions, struck two tactical ISIL units, and a large ISIL unit. One airstrike southeast of Al-Hasakah damaged a crude oil collection point operated by ISIL while another airstrike near Hazm struck and destroyed a storage facility associated with the Khorasan Group.\n\nBetween 20 and 21 November, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 47th round of airstrikes with seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Raqqa. Six airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed four ISIL staging areas, two ISIL controlled buildings, two ISIL tactical units, and suppressed an ISIL fighting position. One airstrike near Raqqa damaged an ISIL barracks building.\n\nIn a 48th round of airstrikes between 22 and 24 November, the United States and coalition partners carried out nine airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Raqqa. Seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed three ISIL fighting positions along with two ISIL staging areas, damaged an ISIL staging area, and suppressed four ISIL fighting positions. Two strikes near Raqqa struck an ISIL headquarters building.\n\nBetween 25 and 26 November, the United States carried out a 49th round of airstrikes with ten airstrikes in and around Kobanî striking an ISIL fighting position, a large ISIL unit, two tactical ISIL units, and destroying four ISIL staging areasand six ISIL fighting positions.\n\nIn a 50th round of airstrikes between 27 and 28 November, the United States carried out two airstrikes near Kobanî and Aleppo. One airstrike near Kobanî struck an ISIL fighting position and an ISIL staging area while one airstrike near Aleppo struck a tactical ISIL unit.\n\nBetween 29 November and 1 December, the United States carried out a 51st round of airstrikes with 27 airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Raqqa, and near Aleppo. Seventeen airstrikes near Kobanî destroyed two ISIL-occupied buildings, three ISIL tanks, three ISIL fighting positions, an ISIL armored personnel carrier, three ISIL vehicles and two ISIL staging areas. It also struck seven tactical ISIL units, targeted six ISIL fighting positions and damaged an ISIL controlled building. Nine airstrikes near Raqqa struck an ISIL electronic warfare garrison, an ISIL military garrison, an ISIL headquarters building, an ISIL jamming system, an ISIL tank and fourteen ISIL vehicles while one airstrike near Aleppo struck a target associated with the Khorasan Group.\n\nIn a 52nd round of airstrikes between 1 and 3 December, the United States carried out fourteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroying an ISIL vehicle, seventeen ISIL fighting positions, and an ISIL staging area, and suppressed eight other fighting positions and striking a large ISIL unit.\n\nBetween 4 and 8 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 53rd round of airstrikes with fifteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Raqqa. Fourteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed four ISIL fighting positions, three ISIL-occupied buildings, two ISIL staging areas, two ISIL tanks, an ISIL motorcycle, a mortar, and struck eight tactical ISIL units along with two ISIL fighting positions. One airstrike near Raqqa struck an ISIL electronic warfare garrison.\n\nIn a 54th round of airstrikes between 9 and 10 December, the United States carried out seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroying five ISIL fighting positions, striking three ISIL fighting positions, and striking a large ISIL unit.\n\nBetween 11 and 12 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 55th round of airstrikes with seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Aleppo, and near Al-Qa'im. Five airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed five ISIL fighting positions and struck one ISIL fighting position. One airstrike near Aleppo struck five ISIL-occupied buildings while another airstrike near Al-Qa'im on the Syrian border destroyed two ISIL fortifications.\n\nIn a 56th round of airstrikes between 13 and 15 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out nine airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Abu Kamal. Eight airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed nine ISIL fighting positions, two ISIL controlled buildings, and two ISIL staging positions as well as striking one ISIL fighting position. One airstrike near Abu Kamal destroyed an ISIL vehicle.\n\nBetween 16 and 17 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 57th round of airstrikes with six airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Abu Kamal. Five airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed an ISIL controlled building, one ISIL staging area, one ISIL bunker, and an ISIL mortar, and strucktwo ISIL tactical units, two additional buildings, and two ISIL fighting positions. One airstrike near Abu Kamal destroyed an ISIL tactical vehicle.\n\nIn a 58th round of airstrikes on 18 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out six airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroying seven ISIL fighting positions and an ISIL building, and struckj an ISIL tactical unit.\n\nOn 19 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 59th round of airstrikes with four strikes in and around Kobanî and near Raqqa. Three airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed two ISIL controlled buildings and an ISIL staging area as well as striking two ISIL tactical units. One airstrike near Raqqa damaged an ISIL training compound.\n\nIn a 60th round of airstrikes on 20 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out five airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroying eight ISIL fighting positions.\n\nOn 21 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 61st round of airstrikes with three strikes in and around Kobanî destroying an ISIL staging position and two ISIL fighting positions as well as striking two ISIL fighting positions.\n\nIn a 62nd round of airstrikes on 22 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out 12 airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Aleppo, near Al-Hasakah, and near Raqqa. Six airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed six ISIL fighting positions and struck four ISIL fighting positions and an ISIL tactical unit. Three airstrikes near Aleppodestroyed artillery equipment and struck 10 ISIL buildings, two airstrikes near Al-Hasakah destroyed an ISIL tactical vehicle, two ISIL trucks, an ISIL building, and two ISIL storage containers, and one airstrike near Raqqa destroyed an ISIL checkpoint complex.\n\nOn 23 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 63rd round of airstrikes with seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Bargooth. Six airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed seven ISIL fighting positions, an ISIL building and struck several ISIL fighting positions and one airstrike near Barghooth struck ISIL oil collection equipment.\n\nIn a 64th round of airstrikes on 24 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out ten airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Deir ez-Zor, and near Raqqa. Eight airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed five ISIL fighting positions, an ISIL building, an ISIL staging position, and struck three ISIL tactical units, an ISIL tactical vehicle and an ISIL fighting position. One airstrike near Deir ez-Zor struck a crude oil collection point and another airstrike near Raqqa struck an ISIL weapons stockpile.\n\nOn 25 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 65th round of airstrikes with fifteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Al-Hasakah, and near Raqqa. Thirteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed three ISIL buildings, one ISIL vehicle, 17 ISIL fighting positions, two ISIL staging positions as well as striking two ISIL fighting positions, three large ISIL units and four ISIL tactical units. One airstrike near Al-Hasakah struck an ISIL drilling tower and destroyed 2 ISIL support vehicles and another airstrike near Raqqa struck an ISIL assembly area.\n\nIn a 66th round of airstrikes on 26 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out four airstrikes in and around Kobanî, destroying three ISIL buildings and two ISIL vehicles.\n\nOn 29 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 67th round of airstrikes with twelve airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Deir ez-Zor, and near Raqqa. Ten airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed 11 ISIL fighting positions, two ISIL buildings, and an ISIL storage container, and struck an ISIL tactical unit. One airstrike near Deir ez-Zor struck several ISIL controlled buildings while another airstrike near Raqqa also struck several ISIL controlled buildings.\n\nIn a 68th round of airstrikes on 30 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Deir ez-Zor. Six airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed three ISIL buildings, damaged one ISIL building, and struck an ISIL tactical unit while one airstrike near Deir ez-Zor destroyed an ISIL shipping container.\n\nOn 31 December, the United States and coalition partners carried out a 69th round of airstrikes with seven airstrikes in and around Kobanî and near Al-Hasakah. Five airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed five ISIL buildings and six ISIL fighting positions while two airstrikes near Al-Hasakah destroyed four oil derricks controlled by ISIL.\n\nIn a 70th round of airstrikes on 1 January, the United States and coalition partners carried out 17 airstrikes in and around Kobanî, near Deir ez-Zor, and near Raqqa. Thirteen airstrikes in and around Kobanî destroyed 12 ISIL controlled buildings, four ISIL fighting positions, one ISIL vehicle as well as striking two ISIL tactical units and two large ISIL units. Two airstrikes near Raqqa destroyed five ISIL checkpoints and struck an ISIL staging area, while two airstrikes near Deir ez-Zor destroyed an ISIL fighting position and struck an ISIL shipping container.\n\nOn 5 February 2015, Jordan elevated its role in the U.S.-led coalition in Syria, launching one of the largest airstrike campaigns since early January 2015, targeting ISIL militants near Raqqa, the \"de facto\" ISIL capital, inflicting an unknown number of casualties and damaging ISIL facilities. This was done in retaliation against ISIL's brutal murder of Muath al-Kasasbeh.\n\nOn 6 February, a continued round of Coalition airstrikes at Raqqa killed over 30 ISIL militants.\n\nOn 21 February, Syrian Kurds launched an offensive to retake ISIL-held territories in the Al-Hasakah Governorate, specifically in the Tell Hamis area, with support from US airstrikes. At least 20 villages were liberated, and 12 militants were killed in the clashes. In response, on 23 February, ISIL abducted 150 Assyrian Christians from villages near Tal Tamr (Tell Tamer) in northeastern Syria, after launching a large offensive in the region.\n\nAs a result of ISIL's massive offensive in the west Al-Hasakah Governorate, the US-led coalition increased the number of airstrikes in the region to 10, on 24 February, in order to halt the ISIL advance. The airstrikes struck nine ISIL tactical units and destroyed two ISIL vehicles.\n\nOn 26 February, the number of Assyrian Christians abducted by ISIL from villages in northeastern Syria from 23–25 February rose to at least 220, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR), a monitoring group based in Britain.\n\nOn 27 February, the Kurdish Democratic Union Party and Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported that Kurdish fighters had recaptured the town of Tal Hamis, along with most of the villages occupied by ISIL in the region. At least 127 ISIL militants were killed in the clashes, along with 30 YPG and allied fighters. One Australian volunteer, who was fighting for the YPG, was also killed. Many of the remaining ISIL militants retreated to Tell Brak, which quickly came under assault from the YPG and allied Arab fighters.\n\nOn 1 March 2015, YPG fighters, aided by US airstrikes, were able to drive ISIL militants out of Tell Brak, reducing the ISIL occupation in the eastern Jazira Canton to the villages between Tell Brak and Tal Hamis.\n\nOn 6 March, it was reported that Abu Humam al-Shami, al-Nusra's military chief, was killed in a US airstrike targeting a meeting of top al-Nusra leaders, at the al-Nusra Front's new headquarters at Salqin.\n\nOn 9 March, the US carried out another airstrike on the al-Nusra Front, targeting a military camp near Atimah, close to the Turkish border in the Idlib Governorate. The airstrike left 9 militants dead.\n\nOn 24 March, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that Canada would be looking to expand Operation Impact to include airstrikes against ISIL in Syria as well.\n\nOn 26 March, the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence announced the deployment of around 75 military trainers and headquarter staff to Turkey, and other nearby countries in the anti-ISIL coalition, to assist with the U.S.-led training programme in Syria. The training programme will provide small arms, infantry tactics and medical training to Syrian moderate opposition forces for over three years.\n\nOn 30 March, the House of Commons of Canada authorized the extended deployment of its military for one year and the war in Syria.\n\nOn 8 April, Canada initiated airstrikes in Syria, with two CF-18 fighters bombing a former military installation of the Syrian government that was captured by ISIL, near its headquarters in Raqqa.\n\nOn 15 May, after surveillance by British special forces confirmed the presence of a senior leader named Abu Sayyaf in al-Amr, 1st SFOD-Delta operators from the Joint Special Operations Command based in Iraq conducted an operation to capture him. The operation resulted in his death when he tried to engage U.S. forces in combat and the capture of his wife Umm Sayyaf. The operation also led to the freeing of a Yazidi woman who was held as a slave. About a dozen ISIL fighters were also killed in the raid, two U.S. officials said. The SOHR reported that an additional 19 ISIL fighters were killed in the US airstrikes that accompanied the raid. One official said that ISIL Forces fired at the U.S. aircraft, and there was reportedly hand-to-hand combat during the raid. UH-60 Black Hawk and V-22 Osprey helicopters were used to conduct the raid, and Umm Sayyaf is currently being held by U.S. Forces in Iraq.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that a senior US military official revelaed that in May 2015, US special operations forces came \"tantalisingly close\" to capturing or killing ISIS leader Abu Bakr al Baghdadi in Raqqa, but failed to do so because classified information was leaked to the news media.\n\nFollowing a suicide bombing in the Şanlıurfa Province of Turkey believed to have been carried out by ISIL militants on 20 July, as well as an ISIL cross-border attack that killed a Turkish serviceman on 23 July, Turkish armour and aircraft struck ISIL targets just across the border in Syria. Turkey also agreed to let the United States use the USAF Incirlik Air Base for strikes against ISIL.\n\nOn 21 August, three Islamic State fighters, two with UK nationality, were targeted and killed in Raqqa, Syria by a British Royal Air Force MQ-9 Reaper strike. Prime Minister David Cameron gave a statement to Parliament that one of the British nationals targeted had been plotting attacks in the United Kingdom. Another British national was killed in a separate air strike by US forces in Raqqa on 24 August.\n\n50 U.S. Special forces operators were deployed to northern Syria to help train and coordinate anti-IS forces in the region.\n\nThe introduction of Russian aircraft and ship based cruise missiles in support of the Syrian Government to Syrian airspace creates new threats to the US-led coalition. Discussions are held to deconflict Syrian airspace.\n\nOn 10 October, the state run Syrian Arab News Agency reported claims that two U.S. General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon jets had \"violated Syrian airspace\" and bombed two electricity power plants in al-Rudwaniya, east Aleppo, \"in breach of international law\".\n\nOn 20 October Canada's Prime Minister elect Justin Trudeau informed Barack Obama by phone of Canada's intention to pull out of bombing raids in Syria. Canada will remain a coalition partner but will stop strikes.\n\nAfter the deadly attacks in Paris, French President Francois Hollande sent its only aircraft carrier, the Charles de Gaulle, with its 26 fighters to intensify air strikes.\n\nOn 27 November, Syrian Arab News Agency claimed that the US-led international coalition, allegedly fighting ISIS, targeted water pumping stations in al-Khafseh area, east of Aleppo, causing them to go out of service. According to Bellingcat's investigation, however, it was Russian MoD bombing\n\nOn 2 December 2015, the Members of the Parliament of the United Kingdom voted 397 to 223 in favour of airstrikes in Syria. Within hours, RAF Tornado jets carried out their first air strikes, targeting the Omar oil fields in eastern Syria, which is under IS control.\n\nOn 6 December 2015, a Syrian Arab Army base at Deir ez-Ezzor was struck, killing at least 1 Syrian Arab Army soldier, with reports circulating that as many as 4 were killed, 13 wounded and 2 tanks destroyed. Syria accused the US of conducting the strike, however US officials denied this, claiming instead that the bombing was a mistake by Russians.\n\nAfter the airstrikes, the SAA reported that ISIS forces began to attack the base.\n\nOn 4 March, a US-led Coalition airstrike targeted Omar al-Shishani, ISIL's top field commander, who was travelling in a jihadist's convoy near al-Shaddadi in northeastern Syria; the strike injured him, and he later died from his injuries, However this was later revealed to be incorrect, he was actually killed in an airstrike in Iraq in July 2016.\nAlso that day, 100 ISIS militants assaulted Peshmerga lines in Syria, U.S. Navy SEAL Charles Keating IV helped the Peshmerga to repel the attack, as ISIS fighters sent a car bomb towards him, Keating led a team to counterattack with sniper and rocket fire. For his actions during the battle he was posthumously awarded the Silver Star.\n\nOn 24 March, U.S. special operations forces conducted an operation with the intent of capturing Abd al-Rahman Mustafa al-Qaduli in Syria. Al-Qaduli, who was the 6th-most-wanted terrorist in the world and is considered by analysts as the second-in-command of ISIS, he acted as the group's finance minister and was involved in external plots, he also temporarily commanded ISIS after its commander was injured. U.S. special forces inserted by helicopter and lay in wait for him to intercept his vehicle; the operators attempted to capture him but the situation escalated and at the last moment, they decided to fire on the vehicle instead, killing al-Qaduli and 3 other militants.\n\nOn 25 April, it was reported that President Obama authorized the deployment of an additional 250 Special Operations Forces soldiers to Syria in the following weeks, they will join the 50 that are already in the country, their main aim is to advise, assist and expand the ongoing effort to bring more Syrian Arab fighters into units the U.S. supports in northern Syria to combat ISIL.\n\nIn late May, more than a dozen U.S. Special Forces were pictured in the village of Fatisah, less than north of Raqqa, and fighting near the front lines with the YPG and wearing both YPG and US insignia on their military uniforms; helping them and other local SDF forces with fire support and coordinating airstrikes from behind the front lines in their advance toward Raqqa. However, the Pentagon and White House insist that the troops are not fighting ISIS on the front lines and are still participating in a non-combat mission known as \"train, advise and assist.\"\n\nAlso in late May, a U.S. special forces operator was wounded north of Raqqa by indirect IS rocket or mortar fire.\n\nThe telegraph reported that British special forces have been operating on the frontline in Syria; in particular in May when they frequently crossed the border from Jordan to defend a NSA (New Syrian Army) unit composed of former Syrian special forces as it defends the village of al-Tanf against ISIL attacks. They mostly help the unit with logistics like building defences and making bunkers safe, the NSA captured the village that month and faced regular IS attacks, an ISIL armoured vehicle packed with explosives drove into the rebels' base and killed 11 members of the NSA, injuring 17 others. The wounded were CASEVAC'd by US helicopters to Jordan; the suicide attack damaged the structure of the al-Tanf base, British troops crossed over from Jordan to help them to rebuild their defences.\n\nOn 1 June, a senior defense official told Fox News that a \"thousands\"-strong SDF force consisting of Sunni Arab fighter and a small contingent of Kurdish fighters (mainly from the YPG) with assistance by U.S. special forces operators and U.S. fighter jets launched an operation to recapture the key ISIS-held town of Manbij in northern Syria, from the border with Turkey. Islamic State used the town to move supplies and foreign fighters into Syria from Turkey, in the 24 hours since the start of offensive, 18 U.S. airstrikes destroyed ISIS headquarters buildings, weapons caches, training areas, six bridges and an unknown number of ISIS fighters were killed, however 15 civilians killed. By 9 June, The U.S. Central Command said the coalition conducted more than 105 strikes in support of the SDF's advance, French special forces are also offering training and advice to SDF fighters in the area. On 15 June, British special forces were reported to be operating in the area, much of the SDF advance was made possible by US-led coalition air support, with air strikes being directed by foreign special forces personnel on the ground.\n\nOn 3 June, F/A-18 Hornets launched from conducted air strikes against ISIS targets in Syria from the eastern Mediterranean. It was the first time the U.S. Navy had conducted strike missions in the Middle East from the Mediterranean Sea since flying operations against the Iraqi military in 2003.\n\nOn 9 June, four U.S. special operations troops were \"lightly\" wounded by shrapnel when an Islamic State anti-tank missile fired at a nearby vehicle exploded in northern Syria, but they quickly returned to duty.\n\nOn 16 June, as part of Russia's campaign to pressure the US to agree to closer cooperation over Syria, Russian military aircraft bombed, with cluster bombs, a military outpost in al-Tanf that was garrisoned by the New Syrian Army in south east Syria. US and British special forces based in Jordan regularly worked with Syrian rebels at the al-Tanf outpost, the airstrike happened 24 hours after a detachment of 20 British special forces left the outpost. After the airstrike took place, US commanders warned Russia that the garrison was part of the international coalition against IS and therefore shouldn't be attacked, but 90 minutes later, nearby US warplanes observed Russian jets dropping a second barrage of bombs on the outpost, killing 4 rebel soldiers. A US spy plane overhead tried to contact the Russian pilots on emergency frequencies, but the Russians did not answer. US officials demanded an explanation from Moscow, but they were told the Russian pilots struck the outpost because they thought it was ISIL base, Russian officials then said that Jordan had approved the strikes in advance, but Jordan denied it. Moscow also claimed its air command headquarters in Syria was unable to call off the strikes because the US had not given them the precise position of the outpost.\n\nOn 29 June, as part of the 2016 Abu Kamal offensive — the offensive by the New Syrian Army and several hundred other rebels from different factions that aims to capture Abu Kamal and sever ISISs transit link between Syria and Iraq; Pentagon-trained rebel forces entered the al-Hamdan air base — northwest of the border town Abu Kamal following intense clashes. This followed significant advances into ISIL-held territory near the Abu Kamal border crossing, the NSA (New Syrian Army) said it had captured a number of IS positions on the outskirts of Abu Kamal, but a raid into the town at dawn was reported to have been repelled by militants. Fighting continued around the town, as coalition airstrikes were carried out on IS hidehouts; the NSA also said it was co-ordinating the assault with Iraqi government forces, who were advancing on the border from the other side. NSA issued a statement saying \"the NSA maintains control of the desert, the approaches to Abu Kamal, and maintains freedom of manoeuvre\". later on that day, IS militants ambushed the rebels, inflicting heavy casualties and seizing weapons according to a rebel source. IS retook the airbase from the NSA and continued to advance against the rebels, recapturing some of the outposts the NSA had captured south of the town; coalition helicopters dropped in \"foreign\" airborne troops on the southern edge of Abu Kamal to help the rebels in their advance, coalition jets also carried out 8 airstrikes on IS targets in the Abu Kamal area. A contributing reasons for the failure of the operation was the withdrawing of air support at a critical moment, the aircraft assigned to the operation were ordered in the middle of the operation to leave the area and instead fly to the outskirts of Fallujah, where a large convoy of IS fighters had been seen trying to escape across the desert after the city was recaptured by the Iraqi army, and U.S. commanders decided that the convoy represented a \"strategic target.\" The convoy was destroyed by the U.S. and British planes along with gunships and aircraft from the Iraqi air force.\n\nOn 7 August, as part of Operation Tidal Wave II, \"Multiple\" coalition warplanes destroyed some 83 oil tankers used by the Islamic State near Abu Kamal.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that US and coalition carried out airstrikes in support of the Turkish intervention in Syria with Syrian opposition forces in August 2016, who seized the town of Jarabulus from ISIS and pushed south and west in an effort to clear the terror group from its border. US Special Operations Forces had initially intended to accompany the offensive but the US was still working on approving the proposal when Turkish units pushed across the border.\n\nOn 30 August, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani was killed in a U.S. drone strike in Al-Bab, the New York Times reported that he was travelling in a vehicle that was destroyed by the drone. CNN reported that Al-Adnani was a key deputy to IS's leader, he also acted as the principal architect in ISIS'S external operations and as the group's spokesman, he coordinated the movements of their fighters - directly encouraging them to carryout lone-wolf attacks on civilians and military targets. It marked the highest-profile killing of an ISIS member.\n\nOn 8 September, an airstrike allegedly carried out by the United States, killed Abu Hajer al-Homsi (\"nom de guerre\" Abu Omar Saraqib), the top military commander of the renamed al-Nusra Front, Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, in the countryside of the Aleppo Governorate. Abu Hajer al-Homsi was one of the founding members of the al-Nusra Front and had taken part in the Iraq War against the US when he was part of the processor organization al-Qaeda in Iraq. The Pentagon denied carrying out the strike and instead claimed Russia was responsible.\n\nOn 16 September, \"CNN\" reported that Up to 40 US Special Operations Forces are accompanying Turkish troops and vetted Syrian opposition forces as they clear ISIS from northern Syria, the mission was called Operation Noble Lance was authorised that week and is now underway. The US personnel will be conducting the same type of advising, assisting and training missions that the US had been providing to moderate opposition to local anti-ISIS forces. The \"Washington Post\" reported that the contingent of Special Operations forces assisting the Turkish and Syrian forces around the cities of Jarabulus and Al-Rai was sent at the request of the Turkish government.\n\nOn 17 September, two US planes A-10, two Danish F-16 and a UK Reaper drone mistakenly bombed a Syrian Army base in the city of Deir ez-Zor which is besieged by ISIL. More than 62 soldiers were killed and at least 100 were wounded in the airstrike. ISIL forces attacked immediately after air-strike and took the local high point (with strategic importance) near Deir ez-Zor air-base: the Tharda (Thurda) mountain. SAA forces made a counter-attack (supported by Russian\\Syrian air-strikes) and recapture the Tharda mountain by the end of the day, suffering additional losses (including one Syrian jet fighter).\nUSAF immediately issued the official explanation - it was a navigation\\intelligence mistake and bombing was stopped after Russian Air Force contact group informed them about the SAA loses. \nDanish Air Force confirmed that their two F-16 fighters participated in the air-strike, insisting that it was stopped in split second after message from Russians came, explaining it as a mistake and regretting the losses.\nRussian officials accused USA in helping the ISIL by the air-raid. Russia has called for a meeting of the United Nations Security Council over the airstrike and the US temporarily ceased air-strikes in the area.\n\nOn 3 October, Ahmad Salama Mabruk, a senior al-Nusra Front and previously Egyptian Islamic Jihad commander, was killed by an air-to-surface missile launched by a US unmanned aerial vehicle in Jisr al-Shughur.\n\nOn 18 November, a US airstrike killed an Afghan al-Nusra Front commander, Abu Afghan al-Masri, in the town of Sarmada.\n\nOn 24 November, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Senior Chief Petty Officer Scott C. Dayton of Explosive Ordnance Disposal Mobile Unit 2 was killed by an IED near Ayn Issa - roughly 35 miles northwest of the ISIS's self-proclaimed capital of Raqqa. It was the first time a U.S. service member has been killed in Syria since a contingent of Special Operations forces was deployed there in October 2015.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that on 26 November, a US drone strike in Raqqa killed Boubaker Hakim, a senior ISIS terrorist suspected of enabling the Sousse terrorist attack (he had connections to the Tunisian IS cell that carried out the attack and the Bardo National Museum attack. Pentagon spokesman Peter Cook said. \"His removal degrades ISIL's ability to conduct further attacks in the West and denies ISIL a veteran extremist with extensive ties.\"\n\n\"Stars and Stripes\" reported that in November 2016 Airman from the 621st Contingency Response Wing with a contingent of civil engineers, intelligence personnel and security forces were temporarily deployed to expand and modify the airstrip that the Airmen had established earlier in 2016 at an air base where they deployed to near Kobani, so it can be used effectively to assist in the offensive to retake Raqqa. The airbase gives the US an additional location for its aircraft to support U.S. and other anti-ISIS forces, but it had been used by US forces limitedly due to the condition of the runway which restricted what types of aircraft could land there. General Carlton Everhart II, commander of US Air Mobility Command, said that the base enables aircraft to deliver critical supplies, equipment and help position forces, he added that airmen from the 621st group have supported anti-ISIS coalition forces on the ground in Syria.\n\nOn 4 December, it was reported that a US airstrike in Raqqa killed three key IS leaders, two of whom (Salah Gourmat and Sammy Djedou) were involved in plotting the November 2015 Paris attacks.\n\nOn 8 December, during the 4th Palmyra offensive, US-led coalition warplanes bombed an IS convoy near Palmyra in central Syria and destroyed 168 trucks carrying petroleum.\n\nOn 10 December, it was reported that the US is sending 200 more U.S. Special Operations personnel to Syria, joining the 300 US special forces already in the country. Secretary of Defense Ash Carter said the troops would include special forces trainers, advisers and bomb disposal teams and that they will \"continue organising, training, equipping, and otherwise enabling capable, motivated, local forces\" to take the fight to IS. In particular, the troops will assist SDF forces in the Raqqa offensive; France also has Special Operations units in the country.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" reported that on 15 December, coalition warplanes destroyed 14 Syrian Army T-72 battle tanks, 3 artillery systems and a number of buildings and vehicles that IS militants were using at a military base in central Syria that IS had seized the previous weekend from Syrian troops and their Russian advisers.\n\nOn 31 December, a Coalition airstrike in Raqqa killed Mahmud al-Isawi, al-Isawi was an ISIL member who supported the organization's media and intelligence structure in Fallujah before relocating to Raqqa. His role in the group was controlling the flow of instructions and finances between ISIL-held areas and ISIL leaders and provided support to propaganda and intelligence outlets; he was also known to have facilitated trans-regional travel with other ISIL external operations coordinators and had a close working and personal relationship with Abd al-Basit al-Iraqi, the emir of ISIL's Middle East attack network.\n\nOn 1 January, a US drone strike killed Abu Omar al-Turkistani, a Jabhat Fatah al-Sham and Turkistan Islamic Party military commander, and 3 other JFS members near the town of Sarmada in the northern Idlib Governorate.\n\nOn 2 January, more than 25 JFS members were killed in an air raid by suspected US planes.\n\nOn 6 January, as part of the Raqqa offensive, SDF forces supported by American special forces and international coalition aircraft seized Qalaat Jaabar fortress after fierce fighting with IS jihadists.\n\nOn 8 January, the coalition forces conducted a landing operation into the road between the villages of Jazra and Kabr in the western Deir ez-Zor Governorate from 4 helicopters. The landing forces had set up checkpoints on the road and raided a water plant in Kabr, where they killed and captured a number of ISIL fighters. After an hour and 15 minutes, the forces withdrew.\n\nOn 11 January, air-to-surface missile launched from suspected US aircraft hit a Fatah al-Sham convoy consisting of 5 vehicles and killed 14 JFS members.\n\nOn 17 January, separate US airstrikes in the Idlib Governorate killed Mohammad Habib Boussaboun al-Tunisi and Abd al-Jalil al-Muslimi, two Tunisian al-Qaeda external operations leaders. Also that day, it was reported that U.S. warplanes and combat advisers are supporting Turkish military units battling IS fighters in northern Syria, particularly at the Battle of al-Bab.\n\nOn 19 January, US airstrikes by Boeing B-52 Stratofortress strategic bombers struck the former Syrian Army Sheikh Suleiman military base near Darat Izza, in western Aleppo, which was used by Jabhat Fatah al-Sham and the Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement. The airstrike killed at least 110 al-Qaeda fighters and some al-Zenki fighters, including Abu Hasan al-Taftanaz, an al-Qaeda senior leader. Since 1 January 2017, more than 150 AQ members were killed by US airstrikes in 2017. The Sheikh Suleiman base had been operated as a training camp by Jabhat Fateh al-Sham and al-Zenki since 2013.\n\nAccording to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, U.S.-led Coalition airstrikes have killed 7,043 people across Syria, of which: 5,768 dead were ISIL fighters, 304 Al-Nusra Front militants and other rebels, 90 government soldiers and 881 civilians. The air strikes occurred in the period between 22 September 2014 and 23 January 2017.\n\nOn 1 February, it was reported that the US had conducted an airstrike on Carlton Hotel, in the city of Idlib, which was used by Tahrir al-Sham's former al-Nusra component for troop housing, and hosting meetings of prominent commanders.\n\nOn 2 February, \"Sky News\" reported that Turkish aircraft killed 51 IS fighters in the space of 24 hours in the areas of a-Bab, Tadef, Qabasin, and Bizaah, the airstrikes targeted buildings and vehicles resulting in 85 IS positions destroyed. According to the Turkish military command, since the beginning of Operation Euphrates Shield, at least 1,775 IS militants have been \"neutralised,\" with more than 1,500 of those killed.\n\nOn 3 February, US airstrikes hit Jund al-Aqsa and Tahrir al-Sham positions in Sarmin, near Idlib, and killed more than 12 militants. On the same day, the Royal Jordanian Air Force launched several airstrikes on ISIL outposts in southern Syria.\n\nOn 4 February 2017, a US airstrike killed al-Qaeda commander Abu Hani al-Masri, who was a part of Ahrar al-Sham at the time of his death. It was reported that he was about to defect to Tahrir al-Sham before his death. Tariq Abdelhaleem tweeted his condolences upon the death of Abu Hani al Masri.\n\nOn 26 February, in Al-Mastoumeh, Idlib, a US drone strike killed Abu Khayr al-Masri, who was the deputy leader of al-Qaeda. He was part of a prisoner swap between Iran and al-Qaeda. The US airstrike also killed another Tahrir al-Sham militant, who was traveling in the same car. Tariq Abdelhaleem tweeted his condolences upon the death of Abu Khayr al-Masri. The leader of the Liwa Omar al-Farouq Brigade in Ahrar Al-Sham, Abu Abdul Maluk (Mahmoud Nemah), condemned the killing of Abu Khayr al-Masri. After Nasir al-Wuhayshi, it was one of the most important liquidations.\n\nOn 8 March, various news outlets reported that conventional US troops as part of an amphibious task force left their ships in the Middle East and deployed to Syria, where they established an outpost from which they can provide artillery support for U.S.-backed local forces who are preparing an assault Raqqa in the battle to liberate the city from IS militants. The deployment marks a new escalation in the U.S. war in Syria, and puts more conventional U.S. troops in the battle, that until now had primarily used Special Operations units. The force is part of the 11th MEU, 400 US Marines from the Battalion Landing Team 1st Battalion, 4th Marines will crew an artillery battery of M-777 Howitzers; whilst additional infantrymen from the unit will provide security, while resupplies will be handled by part of the expeditionary force's combat logistics element. A defense official with direct knowledge of the operation said the Marines were flown from Djibouti to Kuwait and then into Syria. There are 900 US soldiers and Marines deployed to Syria in total (500 special forces troops were already on the ground to train and support the SDF); under the existing limits put in place by the Obama administration, the formal troop cap for Syria is 503, but commanders have the authority to temporarily exceed that limit to meet military requirements. There are approximately 100 US Army Rangers in Strykers and armored Humvees deployed in and around Manbij, US officials said. They are there to discourage Syrian, Russian, or Turkish troops from making any moves that could shift the focus away from an assault on IS militants, specifically preventing them inadvertently coming under fire. The US believes the pressure on ISIS in Raqqa is working, a US official said that intelligence indicates some ISIS leadership and operatives continue to try to leave the city. He added that there is also US intelligence that indicates the city is laced with trenches, tunnels, roadside bombs and houses and buildings wired to explode, which if correct indicates that the US has likely been able to gather intelligence from both overhead surveillance aircraft and people on the ground. However, the official also noted that \"Raqqa will probably not be the final battle against ISIS\" and added that the group still has some personnel dispersed in areas south and east of the city. According to the official the US estimates that ISIS could have roughly as many as 4,000 fighters in Raqqa. An official told \"the Guardian\" that in addition, the US is preparing to send hundreds of troops to Kuwait to be ready to fight Isis there if needed and the number would be fewer than 1,000. The \"Independent\" reported that Colonel John Dorrian, a spokesperson for Operation Inherent Resolve, said the artillery unit and the Army Rangers would not have a frontline role.\nOn 16 March, a US airstrike hit a mosque in western Aleppo and killed more than 42 people, mostly civilians. The location was assessed by the US military as a meeting place for al-Qaeda and the US military claimed that the airstrike hit a target across the mosque and was not targeted at the mosque itself.\n\n\"Stars and Stripes\" reported that on 28 March, an airman assigned to the 21st Space Wing was killed in a non-combat incident (possibly natural causes) in northern Syria.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported that on the night of 21 March, hundreds of Kurdish and Arab SDF fighters and an undisclosed number of U.S. Special Operations troops as their advisers launched a large-scale heliborne assault on IS around the area of the Tabqa Dam with the eventual goal of taking the dam. They were inserted on the southern bank of the Euphrates river behind IS's defenses to take them by surprise, Col Joe Scrocca, the spokesman for the U.S.-led campaign in Iraq and Syria said that as a result they did not come under fire. The following day, there was heavy fighting in the area; Scrocca added that the ground forces were supported by helicopter gunships, US Marine 155mm artillery and U.S. airstrikes.\n\nOn 6 April, the US conducted a landing operation against ISIL, to the west of Deir ez-Zor. 2 Coalition helicopters airdropped soldiers in the area and targeted a car on route from Raqqa to Deir ez-Zor. During the landing, US forces killed 4 ISIL commanders and extracted a Jordanian spy, who had infiltrated ISIL and served as one of its leaders. \"CNN\" reported that the operation took place near Mayadin and that one of the ISIS commanders killed by US special forces was Abdurakhmon Uzbeki, a top facilitator and close associate of ISIS' leader, he was also connected to the New Year's nightclub bombing in Turkey.\n\nOn 7 April, in response to chemical weapon attacks (most notably the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack) against Syrian civilians allegedly by the Syrian government, the US launched missile strikes on the airfield from which the chemical weapon attacks were launched. This incident marks the first direct attack by the US on the Assad government. The Russian Foreign Ministry denounced the attack as being based on false intelligence and against international law, suspended the Memorandum of Understanding on Prevention of Flight Safety Incidents that had been signed with the US, and called an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council.\n\nOn 8 April, ISIS militants attacked a U.S. garrison at Al Tanf in Southern Syria: the garrison's main gate was blown up with a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device, followed by a ground assault of about twenty to thirty ISIS militants, some of whom were wearing suicide vests. The U.S. Central Command said that the ″U.S. special operators″ at the base along with other coalition members and ″U.S.-backed Syrian fighters″, supported by multiple airstrikes, repelled the attack, with no U.S. casualties. The \"Telegraph\" reported that during the battle ISIS militants also ambushed a convoy of reinforcements from an allied rebel group who were trying to relieve the base.\n\nOn \"CNN\" reported that on 11 April, a misdirected US airstrike near Tabqa during the Raqqa offensive killed 18 SDF soldiers.\n\nThe \"BBC\" reported that on 21 April, US ground troops killed Abdurakhmon Uzbeki, a senior member of ISIS who played a key role in an attack on a night club in Istanbul and was a close associate of the leader of ISIS. The targeted commando raid took place in Mayadin.\n\nThe \"BBC\" reported that on 9 May an RAF drone strike in Syria stopped an ISIS-staged public killing, its hellfire missile killed an ISIS sniper positioned on a rooftop so that the sniper could shoot civilians attempting to walk away. No civilians were harmed and other ISIS fighters fled on motorbikes.\n\nThe \"Independent\" reported that on 12 May, SDF forces took control of the Taqba Dam after a deal struck by the SDF and around 70 ISIS militants at the dam which included dismantling of IEDs and booby traps, the surrender of heavy weaponry and forced withdrawal of remaining fighters from Tabqa city.\n\nOn 18 May, the US conducted airstrikes on a convoy of a pro-government militia during the 2017 Baghdad–Damascus highway offensive. According to a US defense official, before the strikes were conducted, government troops were warned they were getting too close to Coalition forces garrisoned at al-Tanf but did not respond. According to the US, four or five vehicles were destroyed, including a tank and two bulldozers. In contrast, the Syrian Army reported that two tanks were destroyed and a Shilka SPAAG was damaged. Eight soldiers were killed.\n\nOn 6 June, U.S. aircraft conducted airstrikes on over 60 troops, a tank, artillery, antiaircraft weapons, and armed technical vehicles from pro-government forces that had entered what the Coalition called Al-Tanf \"deconfliction zone\".\n\nOn 8 June, a U.S. F-15E aircraft shot down a drone while other U.S. aircraft destroyed two armed pick-up trucks belonging to pro-government forced that moved near U.S. backed fighters at Al-Tanf.\n\nOn 18 June, a U.S. F/A-18E Super Hornet shot down a Syrian Su-22 after it allegedly bombed a SDF position in Ja'Din, south of Tabqa. A statement by the Syrian army claimed that the plane was on a mission to bomb ISIL militants. In the same day, Syrian government forces captured the village of Ja'Din following an SDF withdrawal.\n\nOn 20 June, a U.S. F-15E Strike Eagle shot down a pro-Syrian government Shahed 129 drone near Al-Tanf after it displayed hostile intent and advanced on Coalition forces.\n\nOn 21 August, US forces in northern Syria were fired on by Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army units near Manbij, and returned fire in a short firefight.\n\nOn 29 August, after the Qalamoun offensive, ISIL militants were surrounded by Lebanese, Hezbollah and Syrian forces on both sides of the Lebanese-Syrian border and therefore negotiated a safe-passage deal so that 670 ISIL fighters and their relatives were to be taken from the border in vehicles to Abu Kamal. The US military disapproved of the deal, Colonel Ryan Dillon, a spokesman for the US-led coalition said the deal undermined efforts to fight the ISIL in Syria; US aircraft carried out airstrikes, blocking the road the ISIL convoy was travelling on, before it reached ISIL-occupied territory in Deir ez-Zor Governorate. Dillon added that other US airstrikes hit militants apparently attempting to join the stranded militants in the convoy. The \"Independent\" later reported that the convoy was trapped the towns of Humayma and al-Sukhnah.\n\nOn 3 September, the \"Independent\" reported that 400 ISIS militants and their families traveling in the convoy that was trapped by US airstrikes in Syria in late August, abandoned their vehicles and began travelling on foot to the Iraqi border.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that on 12 December, Maghawir Al-Thawra fighters accompanied by US advisers intercepted a convoy of about 10 vehicles that was passing through the 55 km \"de-confliction\" zone surrounding the coalition base at Al-Tanf, a firefight ensued resulting in 21 ISIL terrorists killed and a further 17 captured.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that on 13 December, two U.S. F-22A fighters intercepted two Russian Su-25s jets that crossed the \"de-confliction line\" multiple times, an Air Forces Central Command spokesman said that \"The F-22s conducted multiple maneuvers to persuade the Su-25s to depart our de-conflicted airspace, including the release of chaff and flares in close proximity to the Russian aircraft and placing multiple calls on the emergency channel to convey to the Russian pilots that they needed to depart the area.\" One US defense official said that a Russian Su-35 fighter was also involved in the incident.\n\nOn 22 December, Australian Defense Minister Marise Payne said that Australia will end air strikes against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and bring its six Super Hornet planes back home. She also added that other Australian operations in the region would continue, with 80 personnel who are part of the Special Operations Task Group in Iraq, including Australian special forces, continuing their deployment.\n\n\"Military Times\" reported on 12 January that Coalition aircraft carried out more than 90 airstrikes between January 4 and January 11 near the Iraq-Syria border.\n\n\"Military Times\" reported that on 20 January, U.S. airstrikes targeting an ISIS headquarters and command and control center in the Middle Euphrates River Valley near Al-Shafah killed nearly 150 ISIS militants, according to a press release SDF fighters provided target observation and intelligence on the target.\n\nAccording to the U.S. military officials, on 7 February in deliberate air and artillery strikes, the U.S.-led coalition killed more than 100 pro-government fighters in eastern Syria, in the Euphrates River valley in the province of Deir Ezzor, after they launched an \"unprovoked attack\" against the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF). Syrian state news corroborated the events, but insisted that the Kurdish forces were mixed in with ISIS forces; it also stated that 10 Russian mercenaries were among those killed.\n\n\"CNN\" reported that on 30 March, Master Sergeant Jonathan J. Dunbar of Delta Force and Sergeant Matt Tonroe of the British Special Air Service were killed by an IED blast during a mission in Manbij, the objective of mission was what Pentagon spokesman Major Adrian Rankine-Galloway described as \"kill or capture a known ISIS member.\"\n\nOn 14 April, Donald Trump, president of the United States, announced that the US, France, and the United Kingdom had decided to carry out a series of military strikes against the Syrian government of Bashar al-Assad. The strikes came in the wake of the Douma chemical attack.\n\nOn 1 May, the SDF, in coordination with the Iraqi Armed Forces, announced the resumption of their Deir ez-Zor offensive to capture the final ISIL pockets near the Iraqi border and along the Euphrates. By 3 May, the USS Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier strike group had joined the SDF's anti-ISIL operations.\n\nOne 21 June, US-led Coalition conducted airstrike against Syrian army positions in east of Homs, resulting with the killing of at least 1 Syrian soldiers. On 22 June, US-led coalition spokesman claimed that they responded to an attack by an \"unidentified hostile force\" near al-Tanf.\nOn 1 November, the Coalition began a series of joint patrols with the Turkish Armed Forces along the frontlines of the Kurdish-controlled Manbij region and the Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army's territory. The move was seen as a part of a \"roadmap\" to ease tensions between the two NATO allies and reduce violence between Kurdish and Turkish elements.\n\nOn 21 November, United States Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis announced the U.S. would set up new observation posts along the Turkish border in northern Syria in order to reduce skirmishes between Turkish forces and armed Kurdish militants in the region such as the border clashes in late October-early November. Mattis affirms it is a co-operational endeavor with Turkey and it will not require additional US troops to be deployed to Syria.\n\nOne of the groups targeted by U.S. airstrikes was the Khorasan Group, an extremist group of suspected al-Qaeda \"core\" members who were alleged to have been plotting an attack against the U.S. and other Western nations. The strikes targeted Khorasan training camps, explosives and munitions production facilities, communications facilities, as well as command and control facilities. The group has been claimed to possess advanced bomb making skills and their plot is claimed to involve a bomb made of a nonmetallic device such as a toothpaste container or clothes dipped in explosive material. The group is reportedly led by Muhsin al-Fadhli, a leader of al-Qaeda and a close confidant of Osama bin Laden. Intelligence officials expressed concern that the group may include militants who were taught by Ibrahim al-Asiri, the chief bomb maker for al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, who is known for his sophisticated bomb making techniques that nearly downed two Western airliners.\n\nLater statements by government officials indicated that the threat of a plot may have been less severe than initially reported. One official indicated that \"there did not yet seem to be a concrete plan in the works\", while another told \"The Guardian\" that \"there was no indication of an imminent domestic threat from the group\" at the time the United States began bombing.\n\nOn 6 November, a second round of airstrikes was launched against Khorasan and al-Nusra in northwestern Syria, along with Ahrar ash-Sham at its headquarters in Idlib, whose leadership had been infiltrated by al-Qaeda. On 13 November 2014, the US launched a third set of airstrikes against Khorasan. On 19 November, the US carried out another airstrike on Khorasan near Hazm, which struck and destroyed a storage facility associated with the group. On 1 December, the US carried out another airstrike on Khorasan near Aleppo.\n\nOn 24 March 2015, it was revealed that the US airstrikes on Khorasan had killed 17 militants from the group.\n\nOn 8 July 2015, a US airstrike near the town of Sarmada in Idlib, Syria, killed Muhsin al-Fadhli, the leader of Khorasan.\n\nSyrian military radar was \"passive\" during the first air strikes, with no attempt to counter US aircraft. During the first night of airstrikes, the United States' force deployed with HARM missiles as a precaution, as it was uncertain how Syria's air-defense network would react.\n\nIn response to the errant airstrike of its forces in September 2016, the Syrian Armed Forces called it a \"serious and blatant attack on Syria and its military\".\n\nThe website Airwars which \"maintains an extensive database of all known allegations in which civilians and friendly forces have been reported killed by the Coalition since August 2014\" reports between 503 and 700 civilians killed by Coalition airstrikes in Syria as of April 2016.\n\nOn 29 September 2014, several groups including the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, the Aleppo Media Center, and the Local Coordination Committees reported that U.S. strikes hit a grain silo in the ISIL-controlled town of Manbij in northern Syria, killing two civilians.\n\nThe Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported ten airstrikes, also targeting various parts of the province of Idlib, killed at least one child and six other civilians. The group said at least 19 civilians had been killed in coalition airstrikes at that time. The Pentagon reported it had no evidence of any civilian casualties from airstrikes targeting militants in Syria. The United States has also acknowledged that its rules to avoid civilian casualties are looser in Syria than those for drone strikes elsewhere.\n\nThe SOHR and other activist groups, reported that seven civilians were killed when an air strike hit a gas distribution facility near the town of al-Khasham is the eastern Deir al-Zor province on 17 October 2014 and three civilians were killed in an air strike on 16 October 2014 in the north east province of al-Hassakah. According to their reports, most of the civilians killed were fuel tanker drivers.\nAccording to Reuters, 50 civilians were killed in Syria by US-led airstrikes, since the start of the campaign in late September 2014. On 28 December 2014, a U.S. airstrike in the northern Syrian town of Al-Bab killed more than 50 civilians.\n\nOn 21 May 2015, the United States admitted it \"probably\" killed two children in bombings near Harem on 4 and 5 November 2014. These are the first such admissions of the campaign, and followed a military investigation. A similar investigation regarding an event in Syria is underway, and two regarding events in Iraq. Two adult civilians were also minorly injured in the Harem strikes. The deaths and injuries are attributed by the military investigation to unintentional secondary explosions, after the bombers hit their intended targets, linked to the Khorasan.\nOn 19 July 2016 a coalition led airstrike on the ISIL controlled villages of Tokhar and Hoshariyeh reportedly killed at least 56 civilians, including 11 children. On 3 August 2016, dozens of civilians were killed after an airstrike in al-Qa'im, some sources claiming that 30 were killed.\n\nAt least 33 people were killed in a U.S.-led coalition airstrike on a school near Raqqa in March 2017 in what is described as war crime. On 16 March 2017, a U.S. airstrike in rebel-held Aleppo killed at least 46 people and wounded more than 100 after warplanes hit a mosque.\n\nAccording to \"Airwars\", the strikes of U.S.-led coalition killed as many as 6,000 civilians in Syria and Iraq in 2017.\n\nOn 2 May 2018, Britain's Ministry of Defense admitted for the first time that a civilian was \"unintentionally\" killed in an anti-ISIL drone strike on 26 March 2018. According to the MoD, the civilian was on a motorbike and entered the target area at the last minute. Defense Secretary Gavin Williamson said the incident was \"deeply regrettable\".\n\nAccording to CJTF-OIR, by May 2016, ISIL has lost 25% of the territory it possessed in Syria since the campaign began, mostly due to advances by YPG/SDF forces with heavy Coalition air support. Overall the American-led air campaign against ISIL is estimated by the Pentagon to have struck 32,000 targets (including 164 tanks, 400 Humvees, and 2,638 pieces of oil infrastructure) and killed 50,000 militants, with approximately 1/3 of these losses taking place in Syria.\n\nOn 20 October 2014 the United States began airdropping supplies to Syrian Kurdish forces, including the YPG, in Kobanî. The Kurdish forces there have been engaged in battle with ISIL during the Siege of Kobanî. Prior to 20 October, the United States and its coalition partners fighting against ISIL in Syria, had not provided any supplies to Kurdish forces in their fight against ISIL. Much of the reason for US having to airdrop supplies was due to the Turkish government's refusal to allow supplies to pass through their border into Kobanî. The U.S. specifically airdropped weapons, ammunition, and medical supplies supplied by Iraqi Kurdistan specifically to supply the Kurdish forces in Syria. On 21 October, a video was released by ISIL showing what it claimed was a bundle of airdropped small arms, ammunition, and other supplies from the United States. The Pentagon said it was analyzing the video and could not at the time confirm whether the video was authentic but that the materials were similar and video would be analyzed by the Department of Defense to analyze its authenticity. On 22 October, the Pentagon confirmed that one of the airdrops had been intercepted by ISIL but that it most likely would not give ISIL any real advantage in their operations.\n\nDuring the beginning of the coalition interventions, leaders including U.S. President Obama, said coalition ground forces would not be used in the fight against ISIL either in Iraq or Syria unless they were local coalition forces. While in Iraq thousands of coalition troops from the United States and other nations have been deployed in an advisory capacity, in Syria no ground troops from the coalition intervening in Syria were deployed in the beginning of the intervention.\n\nIn November 2015, The Obama administration began the deployment of U.S. special forces to Syria, on the mission of assisting rebel forces in their fight against ISIL, President Obama then ordered several dozen Special Operations troops into Rojava in northern Syria to assist local fighters battling the Islamic State, authorizing the first open-ended mission by American ground forces into the country.\n\nISIL's deputy leader in Syria, Abu Ali al-Anbari, was killed by JSOC special forces operatives in March 2016, in eastern Syria near the Syrian–Iraqi border, while he and three other ISIL members were traveling in a vehicle coming from Raqqa. The US Special Forces ordered him to exit the vehicle, intending to arrest him. When he refused and pulled out an assault rifle instead, US forces fired at the vehicle, killing him and the other passengers on board. US commandos also seized electronics and other documents during the operation for intelligence purposes.\n\nIn March 2016, King Abdullah of Jordan said that British forces had helped in the building up of a mechanised battalion in southern Syria, consisting of tribal fighters to combat the Syrian Army.\n\nOn 17 March 2016, the day after the declaration of the Federation of Northern Syria, U.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter praised the Syrian Democratic Forces as having \"proven to be excellent partners of ours on the ground in fighting ISIL. We are grateful for that, and we intend to continue to do that, recognizing the complexities of their regional role.\"\n\nDuring the SDF's May 2016 offensive against ISIL in Northern Raqqa, U.S. Special Forces were widely reported and photographed to be present, and to wear badges of YPG and YPJ on their uniforms.\n\nOn 21 May 2016, Joseph Votel, commanding general of U.S. Central Command, completed a secret several-hour-long trip to northern Syria to visit several locations where there were U.S. special operations forces and meet with local forces the U.S. was helping train to fight ISIL. The visit came as the first of 250 additional U.S. special operations forces were beginning to arrive in Syria to work with local forces. The commander overseeing the war in Syria, at the end of a long Saturday spent touring SDF bases, said \"We do, absolutely, have to go with what we've got\".\n\nIn September 2016, the U.S. spokesman for the Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF–OIR) confirmed that the SDF, including the YPG, is also part of the \"vetted forces\" in the train and equip program and will be supplied with weapons. The President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, condemned this and claimed that the SDF are \"endangering our future\".\n\nIn October 2016, U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Stephen J. Townsend, the commander of the international coalition against ISIL, said that the SDF would lead the impending assault on Raqqa, ISIL's stronghold and capital, and that SDF commanders would plan the operation with advice from American and coalition troops.\n\nFrom November, more than 300 U.S. Special Operations Forces were embedded to train and advise SDF fighters in the Raqqa offensive.\n\nIn March 2017, the Donald Trump Administration deployed an additional 400 U.S. Marines in Syria to expand the fight against ISIS in the Raqqa offensive where they could provide artillery support for U.S.-backed local forces that were preparing an assault on Raqqa to liberate the city from IS militants. The deployment marked a new escalation in the U.S. war in Syria, and put more conventional U.S. troops in the battle that, until then, had primarily used Special Operations units. The 400 Marines were part of the 11th MEU from the Battalion Landing Team 1st Battalion, 4th Marines. They manned an artillery battery of M-777 Howitzers whilst additional infantrymen from the unit provided security and resupplies were handled by part of the expeditionary force's combat logistics element. During the Raqqa campaign alone, this small artillery battalion fired over 40,000 shells (including 34,033 155mm), more than were used in the entire 2003 invasion of Iraq and only 20,000 fewer than all those fired by the U.S. military in Operation Desert Storm.\n\nIn March 2018, SDF press secretary in Deir ez-Zor Mehdi Kobani reportedly told Sputnik Turkiye that U.S. forces were building a \"large military base\" in the oil-rich al-Omar region of Deir ez-Zor as new equipment had been reportedly arriving to U.S. bases in Syria. The al-Omar oilfield is the largest oil deposit in Syria, and was captured by the SDF during their campaign against ISIL in October 2017.\n\nThe 441st Air Expeditionary Squadron reportedly maintains an unpaved runway in Sarrin, Raqqa Governorate.\n\nUnlike previous U.S. combat operations, no name had been given to the American intervention in Syria and Iraq until it was announced in mid-October that the operational name would be Inherent Resolve. The decision to keep the conflict nameless drew considerable media criticism.\n\nTurkey, a NATO member, has been involved in the Syrian Civil War since the beginning of hostilities. Turkey has trained and armed some members of the Free Syrian Army, and has been involved in certain spillover incidents, however so far Turkey has not been involved in direct combat. On 2 October 2014, the Turkish Parliament authorized direct military action in both Iraq and Syria including using military force in Syria and Iraq as well as allowing coalition members to use bases in Turkey. Turkey has also stationed troops and tanks on its southern border near the Syrian border city of Kobanî. The Turkish government demanded several things to go along with them intervening against ISIL, including a buffer zone in Northern Syria, a no-fly zone over certain parts of northern Syria, ground troops from other countries, and the training of moderate opposition forces to fight both ISIL and al-Assad.\n\nTurkey also holds sovereignty over the Tomb of Suleyman Shah 35 km inside Syria, where it maintains a small garrison of Special forces that is surrounded by ISIL-controlled territory.\n\nOn 22 February 2015, the Turkish Army mounted a rescue operation across the border to evacuate its soldiers from the Tomb of Suleyman Shah, an exclave of Turkey south of Kobanî. The Turkish convoy reportedly transited through Kurdish-held Kobanî \"en route\" to the tomb. One Turkish soldier was killed in what Ankara described as an accident. The success of the operation was announced 22 February by Turkish Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu.\n\n\nDmitry Peskov, spokesman for the Russian President Vladimir Putin, described the US air strikes on the Shayrat airbase as \"an act of aggression against a sovereign state delivered in violation of international law under a far-fetched pretext... a serious blow to Russian-US relations, which are already in a poor state\".\n\nForeign Minister Sergei Lavrov referred to the Sharyat attack as \"an act of aggression under a completely invented pretext\". He compared events in April 2017 to \"the situation of 2003, when the USA, the UK and several of their allies invaded Iraq without the UN Security Council's approval - a grave violation of international law - but at that point they at least tried to show some material evidence.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2831704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2831704", "title": "BH Dani", "text": "BH Dani\n\n\"BH Dani\" focuses on exposing corruption in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Another favourite subject is Rijaset, the governing body of Bosnian Muslims and its Grand Mufti Mustafa Cerić. The magazine ardently criticizes what they perceive as the rampant corruption and nepotism in the Islamic community of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and often gives the platform to those who oppose Mufti Cerić and his appointees. Due to its frequent criticism of Bosnian Muslim sympathy towards Arab volunteers who came to join the Bosnian Army following massacres on Bosnian Muslims by Serb and, to a lesser extent, Croat forces in the 1992-1995 Bosnian War, it is seen by some as an anti-Muslim publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348992", "title": "Battle of Artemisium", "text": "Battle of Artemisium\n\nThe Battle of Artemisium, or Battle of Artemision, was a series of naval engagements over three days during the second Persian invasion of Greece. The battle took place simultaneously with the more famous land battle at Thermopylae, in August or September 480 BC, off the coast of Euboea and was fought between an alliance of Greek city-states, including Sparta, Athens, Corinth and others, and the Persian Empire of Xerxes I.\n\nThe Persian invasion was a delayed response to the defeat of the first Persian invasion of Greece, which had been ended by the Athenian victory at the Battle of Marathon. King Xerxes had amassed a huge army and navy, and set out to conquer all of Greece. The Athenian general Themistocles proposed that the Allied Greeks block the advance of the Persian army at the pass of Thermopylae and simultaneously block the Persian navy at the Straits of Artemisium. An Allied naval force of 271 triremes was thus dispatched to await the arrival of the Persians.\n\nApproaching Artemisium towards the end of summer, the Persian navy was caught in a gale off the coast of Magnesia and lost around a third of their 1200 ships. After arriving at Artemisium, the Persians sent a detachment of 200 ships around the coast of Euboea in an attempt to trap the Greeks, but these were caught in another storm and shipwrecked. The main action of the battle took place after two days of smaller engagements. The two sides fought all day, with roughly equal losses; however, the smaller Allied fleet could not afford the losses.\n\nAfter the engagement, the Allies received news of the defeat of the Allied army at Thermopylae. Since their strategy required both Thermopylae and Artemisium to be held, and given their losses, the Allies decided to withdraw to Salamis. The Persians overran and gained control over Phocis, then Boeotia, and finally entered Attica where they captured the now-evacuated Athens. However, seeking a decisive victory over the Allied fleet, the Persians were later defeated at the Battle of Salamis in late 480 BC. Fearing being trapped in Europe, Xerxes withdrew with much of his army to Asia, leaving Mardonius to complete the conquest of Greece. The following year, however, saw an Allied army decisively defeat the Persians at the Battle of Plataea, thereby ending the Persian invasion.\n\nThe main source for the Greco-Persian Wars is the Greek historian Herodotus. Herodotus, who has been called the 'Father of History', was born in 484 BC in Halicarnassus, Asia Minor (then under Persian overlordship). He wrote his 'Enquiries' (Greek—\"Historia\"; English—\"(The) Histories\") around 440–420 BC, trying to trace the origins of the Greco-Persian Wars, which would still have been relatively recent history (the wars finally ending in 450 BC). Herodotus's approach was entirely novel, and at least in Western society, he does seem to have invented 'history' as we know it. As Holland has it: \"For the first time, a chronicler set himself to trace the origins of a conflict not to a past so remote so as to be utterly fabulous, nor to the whims and wishes of some god, nor to a people's claim to manifest destiny, but rather explanations he could verify personally.\"\n\nSome subsequent ancient historians, despite following in his footsteps, criticised Herodotus, starting with Thucydides. Nevertheless, Thucydides chose to begin his history where Herodotus left off (at the Siege of Sestos), and therefore evidently felt that Herodotus's history was accurate enough not to need re-writing or correcting. Plutarch criticised Herodotus in his essay \"On The Malignity of Herodotus\", describing Herodotus as \"Philobarbaros\" (barbarian-lover), for not being pro-Greek enough, which suggests that Herodotus might actually have done a reasonable job of being even-handed. A negative view of Herodotus was passed on to Renaissance Europe, though he remained well read. However, since the 19th century, archaeological finds that support his version of events have considerably rehabilitated his reputation. The prevailing modern view is that Herodotus generally did a remarkable job in his \"Historia\", but that some of his specific details (particularly troop numbers and dates) should be viewed with skepticism. Nevertheless, there are still some historians who believe Herodotus made up much of his story.\n\nThe Sicilian historian Diodorus Siculus, writing in the 1st century BC in his \"Bibliotheca Historica\", also provides an account of the Greco-Persian wars, partially derived from the earlier Greek historian Ephorus. This account is fairly consistent with Herodotus's. The Greco-Persian wars are also described in less detail by a number of other ancient historians including Plutarch, Ctesias of Cnidus, and are referred to by other authors, such as the playwright Aeschylus. Archaeological evidence, such as the Serpent Column, also supports some of Herodotus's specific claims.\n\nThe Greek city-states of Athens and Eretria had supported the unsuccessful Ionian Revolt against the Persian Empire of Darius I in 499-494 BC. The Persian Empire was still relatively young, and prone to revolts amongst its subject peoples. Moreover, Darius was an usurper, and had spent considerable time extinguishing revolts against his rule. The Ionian revolt threatened the integrity of his empire, and Darius thus vowed to punish those involved (especially those not already part of the empire). Darius also saw the opportunity to expand his empire into the fractious world of Ancient Greece. A preliminary expedition under Mardonius in 492 BC, to secure the land approaches to Greece, re-conquered Thrace, and forced Macedon to become a fully subordinate client kingdom part of Persia. It had been made a vassal or ally as early as the late 6th century BC, but remained having autonomy. Mardonius' campaign of 492 BC changed this.\n\nIn 491 BC, Darius sent emissaries to all the Greek city-states, asking for a gift of 'earth and water' in token of their submission to him. Having had a demonstration of his power the previous year, the majority of Greek cities duly obliged. In Athens, however, the ambassadors were put on trial and then executed by throwing them in a pit; in Sparta, they were simply thrown down a well. This meant that Sparta was also effectively at war with Persia.\n\nDarius thus put together an amphibious task force under Datis and Artaphernes in 490 BC, which attacked Naxos, before receiving the submission of the other Cycladic Islands. The task force then moved on Eretria, which it besieged and destroyed. Finally, it moved to attack Athens, landing at the bay of Marathon, where it was met by a heavily outnumbered Athenian army. At the ensuing Battle of Marathon, the Athenians won a remarkable victory, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Persian army to Asia.\n\nDarius therefore began raising a huge new army with which he meant to completely subjugate Greece; however, in 486 BC, his Egyptian subjects revolted, indefinitely postponing any Greek expedition. Darius then died whilst preparing to march on Egypt, and the throne of Persia passed to his son Xerxes I. Xerxes crushed the Egyptian revolt, and very quickly restarted the preparations for the invasion of Greece. Since this was to be a full-scale invasion, it required long-term planning, stock-piling and conscription. Xerxes decided that the Hellespont would be bridged to allow his army to cross to Europe, and that a canal should be dug across the isthmus of Mount Athos (rounding which headland, a Persian fleet had been destroyed in 492 BC). These were both feats of exceptional ambition, which would have been beyond any contemporary state. By early 480 BC, the preparations were complete, and the army Xerxes had mustered at Sardis marched towards Europe, crossing the Hellespont on two pontoon bridges.\n\nThe Athenians had also been preparing for war with the Persians since the mid-480s BC, and in 482 BC the decision was taken, under the guidance of the Athenian politician Themistocles, to build a massive fleet of triremes that would be necessary for the Greeks to fight the Persians. However, the Athenians did not have the manpower to fight on land and sea; and therefore combating the Persians would require an alliance of Greek city states. In 481 BC, Xerxes sent ambassadors around Greece asking for earth and water, but making the very deliberate omission of Athens and Sparta. Support thus began to coalesce around these two leading states. A congress of city states met at Corinth in late autumn of 481 BC, and a confederate alliance of Greek city-states was formed. It had the power to send envoys asking for assistance and to dispatch troops from the member states to defensive points after joint consultation. This was remarkable for the disjointed Greek world, especially since many of the city-states in attendance were still technically at war with each other.\n\nThe 'congress' met again in the spring of 480 BC. A Thessalian delegation suggested that the allies could muster in the narrow Vale of Tempe, on the borders of Thessaly, and thereby block Xerxes's advance. A force of 10,000 hoplites was dispatched to the Vale of Tempe, through which they believed the Persian army would have to pass. However, once there, they were warned by Alexander I of Macedon that the vale could be bypassed through the Sarantoporo Pass, and that the army of Xerxes was overwhelming, the Greeks retreated. Shortly afterwards, they received the news that Xerxes had crossed the Hellespont.\n\nThemistocles therefore suggested a second strategy to the allies. The route to southern Greece (Boeotia, Attica and the Peloponnesus) would require the army of Xerxes to travel through the very narrow pass of Thermopylae. The pass could easily be blocked by the Greek hoplites, despite the overwhelming numbers of Persians. Furthermore, to prevent the Persians bypassing Thermopylae by sea, the Athenian and allied navies could block the straits of Artemisium. This dual strategy was adopted by the congress. However, the Peloponnesian cities made fall-back plans to defend the Isthmus of Corinth should all else fail, whilst the women and children of Athens were evacuated \"en masse\" to the Peloponnesian city of Troezen.\n\nThe Allied fleet sailed north to Cape Artemisium once it became known that the Persian army was advancing along the coast past Mount Olympus, probably around late July or the beginning of August. The Allies took up station at Artemisium, most likely beaching their ships at the headland, from which they could quickly launch them as needed. The Allies sent three ships to Skiathos as scouts to provide warning of the approach of the Persian fleet but two weeks passed without sight. Finally, ten Sidonian triremes arrived off Skiathos, and the main Allied fleet was informed by a fire-beacon lit on the island. However, the Allied patrol ships themselves were caught unaware and two were captured, whilst one ran aground. According to Herodotus, in the ensuing confusion, unsure whether or not the beacon heralded the arrival of the whole Persian fleet, as a precaution the whole Allied fleet launched into the straits of Artemisium. Once it became clear that the Persian fleet was not going to arrive that day, they decided to sail to Chalcis, halfway down on the western coast of Euboea, leaving men on the heights of Euboea to warn of the actual arrival of the Persian ships.\n\nHistorians suggest that the Allies may have misinterpreted the Persian movements and come to the mistaken conclusion that the Persians were sailing east around Skiathos, aiming to sail around the eastern side of Euboea. The signals sent by fire beacons must have been very simplistic, and potentially interpreted wrongly; alternatively, the signallers may have genuinely believed that the Persian fleet was sailing to the east of Skiathos. If the Persians sailed around the outer, eastern side of Euboea, they could head straight to Attica, and thereby cut off the Allied fleet's line of retreat. Furthermore, the Persians had enough ships to attempt to both attack the Straits of Artemisium, and sail around Euboea. The withdrawal to Chalcis therefore gave the Allies the opportunity to escape from the Straits of Euboea if the Persians did travel around the outside of Euboea, but also allowed them to return to Artemisium if necessary. In this context, the watchers left on Euboea could inform the Allies if the Persian fleet did indeed sail east of Euboea. The Allied fleet thus continued to wait at Chalcis. Nevertheless, the Allies, undoubtedly anxious about facing a Persian fleet that so greatly outnumbered them, may have somewhat overreacted.\n\nAround ten days later, the Persian army arrived at Thermopylae, and the Allies at Chalcis were informed by a ship, captained by Abronichus, which had been appointed to liaise between the army and the fleet. However, there was still no sign of the Persian fleet, and the first day the Persians spent at Thermopylae passed without them launching an attack. The next day, the Persian fleet finally drew near to Artemisium, heading for the Gap of Skiathos (between the coast of Magnesia and Skiathos), when a summer gale (a 'Hellesponter' - probably a north-easterly storm) broke, driving the Persian fleet onto the mountainous coast. The storm lasted two days, wrecking approximately one third of the Persian ships. Meanwhile, at Thermopylae, the Persians had continued to wait for the Greeks to disperse, also choosing not to attack during the storm.\n\nThe day after the storm finished, the Allied fleet returned to Artemisium to protect the flank of the army at Thermopylae. The following day, (the fifth since the Persians had arrived at Thermopylae) the Persian army began their attacks on the Allied army at Thermopylae. The same day, the Persian fleet finally appeared through the Gap of Sciathos, and began mooring on the coast opposite Artemisium, at Aphetae. According to Herodotus, 15 Persian ships blundered into the Allied lines, and were captured. Although clearly storm damaged, the Persian fleet still probably outnumbered the Allies by nearly 3:1. As a result, the Allies contemplated withdrawing completely. The Euboeans, not wanting to be abandoned to the Persians, bribed Themistocles to try to ensure that the Allied fleet remained. Since the joint operation at Thermopylae and Artemisium was his strategy in the first place, it is likely this is exactly what Themistocles wanted, and this bribe allowed him in turn to bribe the Spartan and Corinthian admirals, Eurybiades and Adeimantus to remain at Artemisium.\n\nLater on that day, a deserter from the Persian fleet, a Greek called Scyllias, swam into the Allied camp. He brought bad news for the Allies — whilst most of the Persian fleet was undergoing repairs, the Persians had detached 200 seaworthy ships to sail around the outer coast of Euboea, to block the escape route of the Allied fleet. The Persians did not want to attack the Allies yet, because they thought the Allies would simply flee, and so they sought to trap them. The Allies resolved to go and meet this detachment, to prevent being trapped, though they planned to leave by nightfall to prevent the Persians becoming aware of their plans.\n\nThe Allies most likely realised that this situation presented them with an opportunity to destroy an isolated part of the Persian fleet. Herodotus is not clear on where the Allies planned to meet this detachment, only that they resolved to do so. One possibility is that they planned to sail down the Straits of Euboea, and hope that the other Allied ships, patrolling the coast of Attica, followed the Persians as they entered the Straits of Euboea from the south; then the Persians might themselves be caught in a trap. Alternatively, the Allies may have planned to ambush the detachment as it passed by Artemisium, on its journey from Aphetae. Either way, they decided to make a demonstration towards the Persian lines during what remained of the day, to convince the Persians that they were planning to stay at Artemisium. Herodotus also suggests that this was an opportunity for them to assess Persian seamanship and tactics. The Allies probably waited until late afternoon so that there was little chance of being drawn into a full scale engagement; they did not want to suffer casualties before sailing to meet to the Persian detachment. These decisions finally led to the beginning of the battle.\n\nThe exact chronology of the battles of Thermopylae and Artemisium, and their relation to each other is somewhat unclear. The chronology below represents an estimated reconstruction of the time-line, following Lazenby and Holland.\n\nHerodotus gives a detailed description of the Persian fleet that assembled at Doriskos in spring 480 BC (see table). However, after the fleet was struck the storm off the coast of Magnesia, approximately one third of the fleet was lost. Thus, by Herodotus's reckoning, the Persian fleet would have had approximately 800 triremes at Artemisium.\n\nSome modern scholars have accepted these numbers, especially since the ancient sources are unusually consistent on this point. Other authors reject this number, with 1,207 being seen as more of a reference to the combined Greek fleet in the Iliad, and generally claim that the Persians could have launched no more than around 600 warships into the Aegean.\n\nHerodotus claims there were 280 ships in the Greek fleet at the Battle of Artemisium, made up of the following contingents (numbers in parentheses refer to Penteconters, other ships are all Triremes):\n\nThe Athenians had been building up a large fleet since 483 BC, ostensibly for their ongoing conflict with Aegina. However, it is probable that this build up, initiated by Themistocles, was also made with a future conflict with the Persians in mind. The Athenians initially requested command of the Allied fleet, but let Eurybiades of Sparta command it to preserve unity.\n\nStrategically, the Allied mission was simple. The fleet needed to protect the flank of the army at Thermopylae, whilst not being cut off themselves. For the Persians, the strategic situation was equally simple, although with more options. They needed to force their way through either one of Thermopylae or Artemisium (since holding both was necessary for the Allied effort), or to outflank either position. Outflanking the Straits of Artemisium was theoretically much easier than outflanking Thermopylae, by sailing around the east coast of Euboea. The Greek position at Artemisium may have been chosen in order to watch for such attempts. If narrowness of the channel had been the only determinant, the Allies could have found a better position near the city of Histiaea.\n\nThe Persians were at a significant tactical advantage, outnumbering the Allies and having \"better sailing\" ships. The \"better sailing\" that Herodotus mentions was probably due to the superior seamanship of the crews; most of the Athenian ships (and therefore the majority of the fleet) were newly built, and had inexperienced crews. The most common naval tactics in the Mediterranean area at the time were ramming (triremes were equipped with a ram at the bows), or boarding by ship-borne marines (which essentially turned a sea battle into a land one). The Persians and Asiatic Greeks had by this time begun to use a manoeuver known as \"diekplous\". It is not entirely clear what this was, but it probably involved sailing into gaps between enemy ships and then ramming them in the side. This maneuver would have required skilled sailing, and therefore the Persians would have been more likely to employ it. The Allies, however, developed tactics specifically to counter this.\n\nHerodotus suggests that the Allied ships were heavier and, by implication, less maneuverable. Their weight would further reduce the likelihood of the Allied ships employing the \"diekplous\". The source of this heaviness is uncertain; possibly the Allied ships were bulkier in construction. Another suggestion is that the heaviness was caused by the weight of fully armoured hoplite marines. The Allies may have had extra marines on board if their ships were less maneuverable, since boarding would then be the main tactic available to them (at the cost of making the ships even heavier). Indeed, Herodotus refers to the Greeks capturing ships, rather than sinking them.\n\nWhen the Persians saw the Allied fleet rowing towards them, they decided to seize the opportunity to attack, even though it was late in the day, as they thought they would win an easy victory. They quickly advanced on the much smaller Allied fleet. However, the Allies had come up with a tactic for this situation, where they turned their \"bows on to the barbarians, [and] they drew their sterns together in the middle\". This is usually taken to mean that they formed into a circle, with their rams pointing outwards; Thucydides reports that in the Peloponnesian War, Peloponnesian fleets twice adopted a circular formation, with their sterns together. However, Herodotus does not actually use the word circle, and Lazenby points out the difficulty of forming a circle of 250 ships (the Peloponnesian fleets had 30–40 ships). It is thus possible the Allies formed into more of a crescent formation, with the wings drawn back to prevent the Persian ships sailing around the Allied line. Whatever the case, it seems likely that this maneuver was intended to negate the superior Persian seamanship, and perhaps specifically the use of \"diekplous\".\n\nHaving assumed this formation upon the giving of a prearranged signal, the Allied ships moved suddenly outwards from this position at a second signal, rowing into the Persian ships and catching them off guard. Their superior seamanship negated, the Persians came off worst from the encounter with 30 of their ships captured or sunk. During the battle a Greek ship, captained by Antidorus of Lemnos, defected to the Allies. Nightfall then ended the battle, with the Allies having fared better than they possibly expected to.\n\nDuring the night, another storm broke (this time probably a thunder-storm, possibly with a south easterly wind), preventing the Allies from setting off southwards to counter the Persian detachment sent around the outside of Euboea. However, the storm also hit the Persian detachment of ships, driving them off course and onto the rocky coast of 'the Hollows' of Euboea. This part of the Persian fleet was thus also shipwrecked, losing most of the ships.\n\nThe following day, which was also the second day of Battle of Thermopylae, the Persian fleet, now recovering from the two storms, declined to attack the Allies, and instead attempted to make the fleet seaworthy again. News of the shipwreck off Euboea reached the Allies that day, as well as a reinforcement of 53 ships from Athens.\n\nAgain waiting until late afternoon, the Allies took the opportunity to attack a patrol of Cilician ships, destroying them, before retreating as night fell. These ships were possibly survivors of the wrecked detachment sent around Euboea, or were perhaps anchored in an isolated harbour.\n\nOn the third day of the battle the Persian fleet was ready to attack the Allied lines in full force. Seeing the Persian fleet assemble, the Allies attempted to block the Straits of Artemisium as best they could, and waited for the Persians to attack. The Persians formed their ships into a semicircle and tried to enclose the Allied fleet, upon which the Allies rowed forward and joined battle. The battle raged all day long, with the Allies hard put to defend their line. When the fleets finally disengaged at nightfall, both sides had suffered roughly equal losses. However, the smaller Allied fleet could scarcely afford such losses; half the Athenian ships (the largest contingent in the fleet) were damaged or lost.\n\nReturning to Artemisium, the Allies saw that they would probably not be able to hold the line for another day, such were their losses. They thus debated whether they should withdraw from Artemisium, whilst they awaited news from Thermopylae. Themistocles ordered the men to slaughter and barbecue the flocks of the Euboeans, so that they would not fall into Persian hands. Abronichus arrived on the liaison ship from Thermopylae and told the Allies of the destruction of the Allied rearguard at Thermopylae. Since holding the Straits of Artemisium now no longer held any strategic purpose, and given their losses, the Allies decided to evacuate immediately.\n\nThe Persians were alerted to the withdrawal of the Greeks by a boat from Histiaea, but did not at first believe it. They sent some ships to see if this was the case, and finding that it was, the whole fleet set sail for Artemisium in the morning. The Persians then sailed on to Histiaea and sacked the surrounding region.\n\nThe Allied fleet sailed to Salamis, off the coast of Attica, to assist with the evacuation of the remaining Athenians. En route, Themistocles left inscriptions addressed to the Ionian Greek crews of the Persian fleet on all springs of water that they might stop at, asking them to defect to the Allied cause:\"Men of Ionia, that what you are doing is not proper, campaigning against your fathers and wishing to enslave Greece. It would be best if you came on our side. But if this is not possible, at least during the battle stand aside and also beg the Carians to do the same with you. But if you can not do either the one or the other, if you are chained by higher force and you can not defect during the operations, when we come at hand, act purposely as cowards remembering that we are of the same blood and that the first cause of animosity with the barbarians came from you.\"\n\nFollowing Thermopylae, the Persian army burned and sacked the Boeotian cities that had not submitted to them—Plataea and Thespiae—and then marched on the now evacuated city of Athens.\nMeanwhile, the Allies (for the most part Peloponnesian) prepared to defend the Isthmus of Corinth, demolishing the single road that led through it, and building a wall across it. As at Thermopylae, to make this an effective strategy required the Allied navy to stage a simultaneous blockade, barring the passage of the Persian navy across the Saronic Gulf, so that troops could not be landed directly on the Peloponnese. However, instead of a mere blockade, Themistocles persuaded the Allies to seek a decisive victory against the Persian fleet. Luring the Persian navy into the Straits of Salamis in September, the Allied fleet was able to destroy much of the Persian fleet, which essentially ended the threat to the Peloponnese.\n\nFearing that the Greeks might attack the bridges across the Hellespont and trap his army in Europe, Xerxes retreated with much of the army back to Asia. He left a hand picked force under Mardonius to complete the conquest the following year. However, under pressure from the Athenians, the Peloponnesian Allies eventually agreed to try to force Mardonius to battle, and marched on Attica. Mardonius withdrew to Boeotia to lure the Greeks into open terrain and the two sides eventually met near the city of Plataea. There, at the Battle of Plataea in August 479 BC, the Greek army won a decisive victory, destroying much of the Persian army, and ending the invasion of Greece. Meanwhile, at the near-simultaneous naval Battle of Mycale the Greeks destroyed much of the remaining Persian fleet, thereby reducing the threat of further invasions.\n\nConsidered by itself, Artemisium was a relatively insignificant battle. The Allies did not defeat the Persian navy, nor prevent it from advancing further along the coast of Greece. Conversely, neither did the Persians destroy the Greek fleet, nor irreparably weaken it. The battle was thus an indecisive one, which pleased neither side.\n\nNevertheless, in the wider context of the Greco-Persian wars, it was a very significant battle for the Allies. The Allies had demonstrated to themselves that they could stand up to the Persian navy, even having the better of some encounters. For many of the Allied crews, it was their first taste of battle, and the experience gained was invaluable at the forthcoming Battle of Salamis. Moreover, fighting the Persians at Artemisium allowed the Greek admirals to see how the Persian fleet performed, and gave them insights into how it might be beaten. In addition, the events before and during Artemisium were crucial in cutting down the size of the Persian fleet (even if this was not all due to military action), meaning that the odds faced by the Allies at the Battle of Salamis were not overwhelming. As the poet Pindar put it, Artemisium was \"where the sons of the Athenians laid the shining foundation-stone of freedom\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8180836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180836", "title": "Ben Franklin in Paris", "text": "Ben Franklin in Paris\n\nBen Franklin in Paris is a musical with a book and lyrics by Sidney Michaels, and music by Mark Sandrich, Jr. with two songs contributed by Jerry Herman.\n\nThe story is a somewhat fictionalized account of Benjamin Franklin's adventures in the French capital. Seeking support for the Colonies' war against England, he arrives in Paris, where he enlists the aid of an old friend, Madame la Comtesse Diane de Vobrillac, a confidante to King Louis XVII. Franklin's hopes of winning the king's support seem dashed when British forces capture Philadelphia but rally when the Colonists are victorious at Saratoga. At home, his son William, the governor of New Jersey, sides with the enemy, and the traitorous act upsets the elder Franklin's plans. To regain the upper hand, he offers to marry Diane, but she rejects him. Knowing he faces death by hanging, Franklin nevertheless decides to go to England, hoping his act of martyrdom will win him posthumous support. Diane learns of the plan and intercedes with the King, who eventually welcomes Franklin in his new position of the Ambassador of the United States of America to France.\n\nAfter 13 previews, the Broadway production, directed and choreographed by Michael Kidd, opened on October 27, 1964 at the Lunt-Fontanne Theatre, where it closed on May 1, 1965 after 215 performances.\n\nThe musical had set designs by Oliver Smith, costume design by Motley, lighting design byJohn Brown, musical direction/vocal arrangements by Donald Pippin, orchestrations by Philip J. Lang, and dance music by Roger Adams.\n\nThe cast included Robert Preston (Benjamin Franklin), Ulla Sallert (Mademoiselle la Comtesse Diane de Vobrillac), Susan Watson (Janine Nicolet), Sam Greene (Captain Wickets), Franklin Kiser (Temple Franklin), Jerry Schaefer (Benjamin Franklin Bache), Anthony Falco (Footman), Oliver Clark (Louis XVI), Art Bartow (Vergennes), Clifford Fearl (Turgot), Roger LePage (British Grenadier), Byron Webster (David Lord Stormont), Ron Schwinn (French Soldiers), Bob Kaliban (Pierre Caron de Beaumarchais), John Taliaferro (Jacques Finque), Stuart Getz (Little Boy), Jack Fletcher (Pedro Count de Arande), Herb Mazzini (Bookseller/Abbe de Morellet), Kip Andrews (Spanish Aide-de-Camp), Art Matthews (Spanish Soldier), Suzanne France (Spanish Ambassador's Daughter), and Lauren Jones (Yvonne). Watson was replaced by Rita Gardner soon after opening night. Michaels was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Author of a Musical.\n\nAn original cast recording was released by Capitol Records.\n\nSan Francisco's 42nd Street Moon theater company presented this musical in November/December 2008.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53108036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53108036", "title": "Bishop Airlock Module", "text": "Bishop Airlock Module\n\nThe NanoRacks Bishop Airlock Module is a commercially-funded airlock module intended to be launched to the International Space Station on SpaceX CRS-19 in 2019. The module is being built by NanoRacks and Boeing, and will be used to deploy CubeSats, small satellites, and other external payloads for NASA, CASIS, and other commercial and governmental customers. It will be delivered to the ISS via a Commercial Resupply Services mission.\n\nUnder the International Space Station's designation as a facility of the Center for the Advancement of Science in Space US government-funded national laboratory, NanoRacks has an agreement with NASA to send payloads from academic and private sources for installation on the ISS' experiment racks or deployment from the equipment airlock in the Japanese Kibo module. Limitations on NASA's use of the JAXA facility created a bottleneck, prompting NanoRacks to develop their own airlock to increase satellite deployment capabilities. A Space Act Agreement between NASA and NanoRacks to develop a private airlock was signed in May 2016, and the NanoRacks-Boeing plan to build and launch the module by 2019 was approved in February 2017.\n"}
{"id": "46804943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46804943", "title": "Bitburg controversy", "text": "Bitburg controversy\n\nThe Bitburg controversy involved a ceremonial visit by U.S. President Ronald Reagan to a German military cemetery in Bitburg, a town in extreme western Germany near the border with Luxembourg, in May 1985, designed to commemorate the end of World War II in Europe 40 years earlier. The visit aroused considerable criticism, both in the United States and around the world, when it became known that members of the Waffen-SS, the military arm of Nazi Germany's SS (\"Schutzstaffel\"), were also buried there. The entire SS was judged to be a criminal organisation at the Nuremberg trials. That Reagan had not been scheduled to visit former Nazi concentration-camp sites compounded the controversy, and a trip to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp was later added to his itinerary.\n\nReagan was scheduled to attend the G7 economic summit in Bonn the week of the 40th anniversary of V-E Day. West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl saw an opportunity to demonstrate the strength of the friendship that existed between (West) Germany and its former foe. During a November 1984 visit to the White House, Kohl appealed to Reagan to join him in symbolizing the reconciliation of their two countries at a German military cemetery. It was suggested that the Kolmeshöhe Cemetery, near Bitburg, was both suitably close and relevant, as 11,000 Americans attached to a nearby airbase lived in harmony with the same number of Germans.\n\nReagan agreed, and later told an aide he felt he owed Kohl, who despite considerable public and political opposition had stood steadfast with Reagan on the deployment of Pershing II missiles in West Germany. In February 1985, then White House Deputy Chief of Staff Michael Deaver made a planning visit to Bitburg. At Kolmeshöhe Cemetery, the 32 rows of headstones were covered with snow. Deaver was usually very skillful in carrying out his role as public relations director for Reagan, but this time he and his team failed to notice that among them were 49 members of the Waffen-SS. A decision was made by the Reagan team not to include a visit to a concentration camp, as had been previously suggested by Kohl. The President said he didn't want to risk \"reawakening the passions of the time\" or offend his hosts by visiting a concentration camp. \n\nOn April 11, 1985, then White House Press Secretary Larry Speakes informed the media of the planned visit to Bitburg. When asked who was buried at Kolmeshöhe, Speakes said he thought both American and German soldiers were there. Reporters soon discovered that no American servicemen were in the cemetery (in fact, the remains of all U.S. soldiers had long since been removed from German soil) and that Waffen-SS graves were located close to the proposed ceremony. When questioned, Bitburg Mayor Theo Hallet pointed out, all German military cemeteries were likely to contain at least a few SS graves. Such distinctions, though, failed to placate those who were opposed to Reagan's visit on moral and political grounds. Decorations and memorials on the Waffen-SS graves were removed just prior to Reagan's visit, and replaced right after.\n\nThis planned visit caused a great deal of anger outside of Germany. Many prominent government officials, U.S. Army officers, and celebrities, protested the planned visit. Holocaust survivor and author Elie Wiesel spoke out on the topic at an unrelated White House ceremony, saying, \"I... implore you to do something else, to find another way, another site. That place, Mr. President, is not your place.\" 53 senators (including 11 Republicans), signed a letter asking the president to cancel, and 257 representatives (including 84 Republicans) signed a letter urging Chancellor Kohl to withdraw the invitation. Former Army S/Sgt. Jim Hively mailed his World War II decorations, including a Silver Star and a Bronze Star, to Reagan in protest. The Ramones recorded the song \"My Brain Is Hanging Upside Down (Bonzo Goes to Bitburg),\" which alludes to \"Bedtime for Bonzo\", a movie from Reagan's film career that co-starred a chimpanzee, and Frank Zappa recorded \"Reagan at Bitburg\". Robyn Hitchcock's song \"The President\" from his album \"Element of Light\" also makes reference to the incident.\n\nChancellor Kohl responded in an interview with \"The New York Times\": \"I will not give up the idea. If we don't go to Bitburg, if we don't do what we jointly planned, we will deeply offend the feelings of [my] people.\" A poll revealed that 72% of West Germans thought the visit should go forward as planned. Kohl admitted that rarely had German-American relations been so strained, and in the days leading up to the visit, the White House and the Chancellery were each blaming the other. The White House claimed that the Germans had given assurances that nothing in the Bitburg visit would be an \"embarrassment\" for the President: \"As clumsily as we handled it, Kohl &. Co. have surpassed us in spades.\" A German official said: \"The Americans also have a responsibility toward the president. They must also check on the history that is beneath the ground. It was not very intelligent.\"\n\nReagan defended himself by saying:\n\nThese [SS troops] were the villains, as we know, that conducted the persecutions and all. But there are 2,000 graves there, and most of those, the average age is about 18. I think that there's nothing wrong with visiting that cemetery where those young men are victims of Nazism also, even though they were fighting in the German uniform, drafted into service to carry out the hateful wishes of the Nazis. They were victims, just as surely as the victims in the concentration camps\n\nReagan was criticized for this statement by opponents of the visit. Equating Nazi soldiers with Holocaust victims, responded Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, president of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, was \"a callous offense for the Jewish people.\" Some critics claimed that Communications Director Pat Buchanan wrote the statement, which he denies. Kohl confirmed an earlier press comment that in the last days of the war he was able to avoid service in the SS because he was only 15, \"but they hanged a boy from a tree who was perhaps only two years older with a sign saying \"traitor\" because he had tried to run away rather than serve.\"\n\nKohl made a call to the White House days before Reagan's visit to make sure the President was not wavering in the face of criticism, not to mention pressure from wife, Nancy. The Chancellor's aide, Horst Teltschik later said: \"Once we knew about the SS dead at Bitburg – knowing that these SS people were seventeen to eighteen years of age, and knowing that some Germans were forced to become members of the SS, having no alternative – the question was, Should this be a reason to cancel?\" Reagan aide Robert McFarlane later said: \"Once Reagan learned that Kohl would really be badly damaged by a withdrawal, he said 'We can't do that; I owe him.'\" Prior to sending Deaver back to West Germany for the third time, just two days before the scheduled visit, Reagan told his deputy chief of staff: \"I know you and Nancy don't want me to go through with this, but I don't want you to change anything when you get over there, because history will prove I'm right. If we can't reconcile after forty years, we are never going to be able to do it.\"\n\nThere was one announced change: an added visit to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.\n\nOn Sunday 5 May, Reagan and Kohl appeared at the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp. The U.S. President's speech there, according to \"Time\", was a \"skillful exercise in both the art of eulogy and political damage control.\" Reagan said:\n\nAll these children of God, under bleak and lifeless mounds, the plainness of which does not even hint at the unspeakable acts that created them. Here they lie, never to hope, never to pray, never to live, never to heal, never to laugh, never to cry... And then, rising above all this cruelty, out of this tragic and nightmarish time, beyond the anguish, the pain and suffering, and for all time, we can and must pledge: never again.\n\nReagan spent only eight minutes at the Kolmeshöhe Cemetery. Along with Kohl, 90-year-old General Matthew Ridgway, who had commanded the 82nd Airborne in World War II, and \"Luftwaffe\" ace and former head of NATO, General Johannes Steinhoff, Reagan placed a wreath at a wall of remembrance. After placing the wreath, and standing at attention in honour while a short trumpet salute sounded Steinhoff, in an unscripted act, turned and shook hands with Ridgway. Reagan smiled, and firmly shook General Steinhoff's hand. Kohl later thanked Steinhoff for his actions.\n\nSecurity was heavy for the three-mile route from the NATO airbase at Kolmeshöhe, lined with 2,000 policemen – one posted every twelve feet: few protesters showed up. When Reagan arrived at the cemetery, Michael Moore and a Jewish friend of his whose parents were at Auschwitz were there with a banner that read \"We came from Michigan, USA to remind you: They killed my family\". They were shown live on TV networks across the country. Reagan made one last appearance with Kohl at the airbase, before 7,500 spectators waving American and West German flags. Kohl thanked the President for staying the course: \"This walk... over the graves of soldiers was not an easy walk. I thank you personally as a friend that you undertook this walk with me.\" Reagan responded: \"This visit has stirred many emotions in the American and German people too. Some old wounds have been reopened, and this I regret very much, because this should be a time of healing.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36456121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36456121", "title": "Blue Eyed Butcher", "text": "Blue Eyed Butcher\n\nBlue Eyed Butcher is a 2012 American crime-drama television film directed by Stephen Kay. It stars Sara Paxton, Justin Bruening and Lisa Edelstein. The film is based on the 2003 stabbing death of Jeff Wright by the hands of his wife, Susan Wright. The film made its debut on March 3, 2012, on Lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "1089826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1089826", "title": "Bristol International Balloon Fiesta", "text": "Bristol International Balloon Fiesta\n\nThe Bristol International Balloon Fiesta is held annually in England. Teams from the UK and other parts of the world bring their hot air balloons to the site and participate in mass ascents where as many as 100 balloons may launch at a time.\n\nThe event was first held in 1979 and is now one of the largest in Europe. It is common to have crowds of over 100,000 on each of the four days of the festival. It takes place in a large country estate Ashton Court. Mass launches are made twice a day, at 6am and 6pm, subject to weather conditions.\n\nOne popular attraction is the night glow, when balloons are inflated and glow to music after dark. These are held on the opening Thursday night at approx 9:30pm, followed by a spectacular fireworks display. There is another night glow at the same time followed by the fireworks on the Saturday night. Some people see these as the highlight of the fiesta.\n\nThe balloon makers Cameron Balloons are near to the fiesta site, in Bedminster, and make many of the special shaped balloons, which have included Rupert the Bear, The Scottish Piper, Bertie Bassett, the Tesco Trolley, Stuart the Minion, and the BBC One Balloon. Many shapes have also attended the fiesta from abroad, over the years a UFO and a beaver have travelled from the USA, a kiwi bird from New Zealand, and an upside down balloon from the Netherlands.\n\nIn the past, the fiesta used to be held in the second week of September, but due to cancellations of flights and the muddy ground because of bad weather, it has been moved in the start of August. This has had a great effect as more flights manage to fly; cancellations are now normally due to high winds.\nIn 2003, the weight of crowds returning from the Balloon Fiesta and Ashton Court festival put such a great strain on the Clifton Suspension Bridge that it was decided to close the bridge to all traffic, including pedestrians, during these events from 2004 onwards.\n\nIn recent years, the event has diversified to include small scale air displays, attracting the likes of The Blades, Typhoon display team and the Red Arrows.\n\nOn 10 August 2013 they broke a balloon fiesta record after 74 balloons landed in one field near the former Somerdale Factory in Keynsham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36557722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36557722", "title": "Bus-Tops", "text": "Bus-Tops\n\nBus-Tops was a project for the 2012 Cultural Olympiad, part of the Artists Taking The Lead project funded by Arts Council England and in collaboration with LOCOG.\n\nBus-Tops saw a series of 30 red LED screens situated on the roofs of bus stops in 20 London boroughs displaying art work made by both the public and established artists. The screens were powered by Beagle Boards running custom software and 3G connections to receive art content and upload sensor-based information. The installations were fed art content via the project's website where anyone could upload artwork to be considered for inclusion on a screen.\n\nThe project was scheduled to end at the end of the Olympic period, 30 September 2012.\n"}
{"id": "29765241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29765241", "title": "Coma Berenicids", "text": "Coma Berenicids\n\nComae Berenicids (IMO designation: COM; IAU shower number: 20) is a minor meteor shower with a radiant in the constellation Coma Berenices. The shower appears from December 12 to December 23 with the estimated maximum around December 16. The radiant at that time is located at α=175°, δ=+18°. The shower's population index is 3.0 with the speed of .\n\nThe Comae Berenicids were first detected within the framework of Harvard Radio Meteor Project. The shower's existence was discovered by Richard Eugene McCrosky and A. Posen in 1959. The Comae Berenicids have an orbit very similar to the December Leo Minorids often leading to confusion between the two meteor showers.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2206580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2206580", "title": "Demining", "text": "Demining\n\nDemining or mine clearance is the process of removing land mines from an area, while minesweeping describes the act of detecting mines. There are two distinct types of mine detection and removal: military and humanitarian.\n\nMinesweepers use many tools in order to accomplish their task. Tools have historically included many trained animals, including dogs and rats, but most often in the modern world minesweepers rely on metal detectors or vehicles with a wide variety of mechanical tools attached to them. Other methods have been developed to detect mines, including the use of trained marine mammals, bacteria, acoustics, and other more exotic methods.\n\nIn the combat zone, the process is referred to as mine clearance. According to the doctrine of the U.S. and other armies, mine clearance is carried out by combat engineers.\n\nThe military priority is to breach the minefield quickly in order to create a safe path for troops or ships. Speed is vital, both for tactical reasons and because units attempting to breach the minefield may be under enemy fire. Both anti-personnel mines and anti-tank mines must be removed, although only in the lanes through which troops or vehicles are planned to advance.\n\nThe risk to sappers is far greater because they may be called upon to perform clearance as tactics dictate, including operating under any weather conditions and on schedule; they can also be under enemy fire. Commanders may accept casualties in the process. Furthermore, it is accepted that mine clearance will be imperfect due to speed and there may be casualties from undiscovered mines. One advantage is that, in military operations, sappers are generally dealing with recently laid mines that respond predictably to clearance, have not 'migrated', and have not degraded (unless old stock was used; old mines can become unstable). In this they are often aided by technical intelligence on the current adversary's mines, which are usually of a single type.\n\nIn these mine clearance operations, the methods that are applied for detection and removal are quicker, but less exhaustive. These methods include those that detect and remove in a single action, such as mechanical demining, carpet bombing, burning of the land or the use of Bangalore torpedoes or mine-clearing line charges.\n\nIn times of relative peace, the process of mine removal is referred to as demining. This is a thorough, time-intensive process that seeks to locate any and all mines so that the land or sea area may be safely returned to normal use. It is vital that this process be exhaustive. Even if only a small handful of mines remain undiscovered, incomplete demining can actually lead to an increase in civilian mine casualties as local people re-occupy an area they previously avoided in the belief that it has been made safe. In this context demining is one of the tools of mine action. Coordinated by Mine Action Coordination Centers run by the United Nations or a host government, civilian mine clearance agencies are tasked with the demining. In post-conflict areas, minefields are often contaminated with a mixture of explosive remnants of war (ERW) that includes unexploded ordnance as well as landmines. In that context, the humanitarian clearance effort is often referred to as battle area clearance.\n\nIn some situations, clearing landmines is a necessary condition before other humanitarian programs can be implemented. A large-scale international effort has been made to test and evaluate existing and new technologies for humanitarian demining, notably by the EU, US, Canadian and Japanese governments and by the Mine Action Centres of affected countries.\n\nCurrently, Afghanistan and Iraq is consuming the largest amount of demining funds, with 24.8% and 15.1% respectively of the global spending on humanitarian demining.\n\nThe main methods used for humanitarian demining on land are: manual detection using metal detectors and prodders, detection by specially trained mine detection dogs, and mechanical clearance using armored vehicles fitted with flails, tiller or similar devices. There is an organization, APOPO, that is training African rats to detect landmines much as dogs do, offering a local solution to countries in Africa. In many circumstances, the only method that meets the United Nations' requirements for effective humanitarian demining, the International Mine Action Standards (IMAS), is manual detection and disarmament. The process is typically slow, expensive and dangerous, although demining can be safer than construction work if procedures are followed rigorously. New technologies may provide effective alternatives.\n\nMetal detectors were first used, after their invention by the Polish officer Józef Kosacki. Allies used his invention, known as the Polish mine detector, to clear the German mine fields during the Second Battle of El Alamein when 500 units were shipped to Field Marshal Montgomery. The \"Polish\" mine detector was later used together with the ERA mine-locator for detecting beach mines.\n\nThe first step in manual demining is to scan the area with metal detectors, which are sensitive enough to pick up most mines but which also yield about one thousand false positives for every mine. Some mines, referred to as minimum metal mines, are constructed with as little metal as possible - as little as - to make them difficult to detect. Mines with no metal at all have been produced, but are rare. Areas where metal is detected are carefully probed to determine if a mine is present; the probing must continue until the object that set off the metal detector is found.\n\nWell-trained dogs can sniff out explosive chemicals like TNT in landmines, and are used in several countries.\n\nLike dogs, giant pouched rats are being trained to sniff out chemicals like TNT in landmines. These rats are currently working in minefields in Mozambique and are trained in Tanzania by APOPO. The rats are called HeroRATS.\n\nThese animals also have the advantage of being far lower mass than the human or dogs. They are less likely to set off small mines intended to injure or kill people, if the bomb-sniffing animal crosses directly over the top of a buried mine.\n\nSpecial machines effectively combine mine detection and removal into one operation. In the past, these machines were applied in both mine clearance and demining but are now generally used only for demining. They can be used to verify land that is not expected to be contaminated or as an extra layer of security after an area has been cleared by another method, such as dogs.\n\nThe machines consist of a special vehicle that is driven through the minefield, deliberately detonating the mines it drives over. These vehicles are designed to withstand the explosions with little damage. Some are operated directly with armour to protect the driver; some are operated under remote control.\n\nRecently, armies have developed armored demining vehicles, and specially armored bulldozers, that are remote controlled. This eliminates risk to the operator. Notable examples are the Caterpillar D7 MCAP (United States) and Raam HaShachar Caterpillar D9N (Israel).\n\nDeminers may be issued personal protective equipment (PPE) such as helmets, visors, armoured gloves, vests and boots, in an attempt to protect them if a mine is set off by accident. IMAS specifies standards for such equipment but draws attention to its limitations and states that at close quarters, antipersonnel fragmentation mines and antitank mines overmatch PPE currently available. PPE can afford significant protection against antipersonnel blast mines, and these are more common. Related technologies that have been developed to improve safety include large, pillow-like pads strapped to the bottoms of shoes that distribute weight and dull the impact of footsteps, as very slight disturbances of the ground can tip off old, unstable, or intentionally sensitive mine triggers. First developed in 1954 by the British as overshoes that are first inflated by the combat soldier, this specialized footwear has become a needed item for some demining operations.\n\nIn demining, once an object has been detected it is removed by one of the following methods: \n\nSome removal methods that are not applied in humanitarian demining, but are common in mine clearance, include:\n\nAlong the China-Vietnam border are numerous minefields. These are the legacy of border clashes in the 1980s. The mines are mainly anti-personnel, and have kept large areas of arable land from use by local farmers. A typical demining process deployed by the Chinese is as follows. Firebreaks are dug around the minefield to be cleared. Then engineers would set the minefield on fire with flamethrowers. Key factors of this burning process are: thick vegetation covering the minefields; most anti-personnel mines are buried very close to the ground level; the mines are made of mostly either wood, thin metal or plastic. This burning process would usually destroy about 90% of the mines, as the mines are either detonated or melted. Mines which have trip wires would have these wires burned off. Demining teams then would plow the area with mine detectors. When the teams have cleared the mines, they would walk over the field hand in hand themselves to show to the locals that all the mines have been cleared.\n\nIn 2003, the Rand Corporation published a comprehensive report on innovative methods of landmine detection.\n\nConventional metal detectors rely on electromagnetic signals with frequencies of the order of 10–100 kHz, which are not sensitive to plastic or wooden mine bodies and the high explosive block itself. The only part of a low-metal mine that they may be able to detect is the detonator. Much higher frequency signals (of the order of 1 GHz) are employed in Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) and these signals are also sensitive to the non-metallic parts of the mine. Unfortunately, as they are also affected by innocuous objects such as tree roots and stones and by local changes in soil moisture, it is difficult to distinguish a mine on a GPR image.\n\nA hybrid approach employing both GPR and metal detector sensors in a single instrument has been developed by several companies and research organisations.\n\nResearch by the University of Montana has revealed that honey bees can, with minimal training, be used to detect landmines with a far greater accuracy and far higher clearance rate than dogs or rats.\n\nRecent experiments with the Gambian giant pouched rat, also known as the African giant pouched rat, have indicated that it has the required sensitivity to smell, can be trained reliably with food-reward incentives, and is typically too small to set off the mines. These rats also offer a local solution to many African countries because they are indigenous to East Africa. These rats are trained by a non-profit, research organization called APOPO and are called HeroRATs.\nAdditionally, experiments with electrode-guided rats suggest that demining could one day be accomplished by guiding \"ratbots\" into areas that humans are unable to reach.\n\nEngineer Thrishantha Nanayakkara and colleagues at the University of Moratuwa in Sri Lanka have come up with a method where a dwarf mongoose is trained to detect landmines by smell and guided by a remote-controlled robot.\n\nThe U.S. Navy Marine Mammal Program uses sea lions and dolphins, among other species, in the detection of seamines.\n\nThe mustard \"Arabidopsis thaliana\", one of the best-studied plants in the world, normally turns red under harsh conditions. But using a combination of natural mutations and genetic manipulation, scientists from Danish biotechnology company Aresa Biodetection, created a strain that only changes color in response to the nitrous oxide that leaks from landmines and other explosives. Because nitrous oxide can also be formed by denitrifying bacteria, there is some risk of false positives using this technique, and researchers are attempting to make the plant less sensitive. The plants would aid demining by indicating the presence of mines through color change, and could either be sown from aircraft or by people walking through demined corridors in minefields. As of February 2005, no studies have been conducted with actual landmines, though successful studies have been done in greenhouses. In order to prevent the spread of this genetically modified organism into the wild, the plants have been further modified so that they will only sprout when provided with an external growth factor.\n\nA bacterium, known as a bioreporter, has been genetically engineered to fluoresce under ultraviolet light in the presence of TNT. Tests involving spraying such bacteria over a simulated minefield successfully located mines. In the field, this method could allow for searching hundreds of acres in a few hours, which is much faster than other techniques, and could be used on a variety of terrain types. While there are some false positives (especially near plants and water drainage), even three ounces of TNT were detectable using these bacteria. Unfortunately, there is no strain of bacteria capable of detecting RDX, another common explosive, and the bacteria may not be visible under desert conditions. Also, well-constructed munitions that have not had time to corrode may be undetectable using this method.\n\nThere are two principal techniques to detect land mines through nuclear reactions. Both rely on the use of neutrons.\n\nThe first such technique relies on the fact that the vast majority of explosives used in land mines are very nitrogen rich when compared with other materials. To detect such anomalies one may make use of the nuclear reaction\n\nIn practice a detection system using this reaction works by subjecting the mine to thermal neutrons while searching for the characteristic gamma ray emitted from the excited state in nitrogen-15; these photons will only be observed when an object containing nitrogen is being subjected to the neutron irradiation. One possible neutron source is californium-252 which undergoes spontaneous fission. A better neutron source is to use a sealed tube electrostatic D-T neutron generation tube, this has the advantage that the tritium is much less radiotoxic than the californium so in the event of an accident such as an explosion, the nuclear mine detection equipment would pose a smaller threat to humans. This type of explosive detection has been proposed for use in airport security and for the detection of explosives in trucks coming into military bases.\n\nAn alternative way of spotting land mines through nuclear reactions with the help of neutrons is that of measuring the thermalization of neutrons. In this technique the soil is irradiated by fast neutrons and the flux of thermal neutrons scattering back is measured. The motivation for this technique is that explosives contain much higher concentrations of hydrogen, which is a very effective moderator of neutrons.\n\nIt is possible to detect land mines by directing sound waves at the area to be demined, which causes the land mines to vibrate, and then using a laser to search for vibrations on the surface by means of the Doppler shift - this technique is termed scanning laser doppler vibrometry. Such devices have been constructed, e.g., at the University of Mississippi, at MIT and by the Kayser-Threde Company.\n\nSince January 2016 British scientists are developing drones with advanced imaging technology to more cheaply and effectively map and speed up the clearing of minefields. The Find A Better Way charity, working since 2011 to advance technologies that will enable safer and more efficient clearance of landmines, teamed up with scientists at the University of Bristol to develop drones fitted with hyperspectral imaging technology that can quickly identify landmines buried in the ground. John Fardoulis, project researcher from Bristol University states that \"the maps [their] drones will generate should help deminers focus on the places where mines are most likely to be found\". Their intended drones will be able to perform flyovers and gather images at various wavelengths which, according to Dr John Day from the University of Bristol, could indicate explosive chemicals seeping from landmines into the surrounding foliage as \"chemicals in landmines leak out and are often absorbed by plants, causing abnormalities\" which can be detected as \"living plants have a very distinctive reflection in the near infrared spectrum, just beyond human vision, which makes it possible to tell how healthy they are\".\n\nIn the 2015 $1 million Drones for Good competition, Spanish company CATUAV was selected as a finalist for a drone fitted with optical sensors to scan war-affected regions of Bosnia and Herzegovina for landmines buried during the 1990s.\n\nThe Dutch Mine Kafon project, led by designer Massoud Hassani is working on a drone system that can quickly detect and clear land mines. The unmanned airborne de-mining system called Mine Kafon Drone uses a three step process to autonomously map, detect and detonate land mines. It flies above potentially dangerous areas, generating a 3D map, and uses a metal detector to pinpoint the location of mines. The drone can then place a detonator above the mines using its robotic gripping arm, before retreating to a safe distance. The firm claims its drone is safer, 20 times faster and up to 200 times cheaper than current technologies and might clear mines globally in 10 years. The project raised funds on the crowdfunding site Kickstarter with their goal set at €70,000 and receiving over €100,000 above it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19535413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19535413", "title": "Encino Oak Tree", "text": "Encino Oak Tree\n\nThe Encino Oak Tree, also known as the Lang Oak, was a 1,000-year-old California live oak tree, \"Quercus agrifolia\", in the Encino section of Los Angeles, California. It was designated as a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument (HCM #24) in 1963. \n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" once wrote of the Encino oak: \"When the famed Lang oak tree of Encino was but a sapling, the Mayan Empire was crumbling and Vikings were sacking English sea towns.\" It was already 100 years old when Pope Urban II launched the first Crusade. And when the first Europeans passed through Encino in 1769 as part of the Portola Expedition, the tree was already more than 700 years old. \n\nAs Encino was developed into a residential community in the mid-20th century, the Encino oak became recognized as a landmark, known for its size and longevity. It was recognized as \"the oldest known tree in the city of Los Angeles.\" A California live oak tree is considered to be old at 300 years, and arborists considered the Encino tree's longevity to be extraordinary. One arborist noted, \"It's just like standing next to a dinosaur.\"\n\nThe majestic California live oaks were such an impressive presence in the pre-urban Encino that the community was named after the Spanish word for \"oak.\" The Encino oak was the most magnificent of the community's oaks, so large that Louise Avenue was split to accommodate its enormous canopy, diameter, and circumference. It has been said that the Encino oak \"creates a woodsy atmosphere more resembling a whole forest than just a single tree.\"\n\nIn 1958, the oak was threatened when a developer planned to bulldoze the tree to build a road. Local residents formed a group called Encino Save the Oaks and the developer eventually donated the tree to the city. It was declared a Historic-Cultural Monument in 1963. In the years following its designation as a monument, the tree was a tourist attraction.\n\nBy the 1990s, the tree was in a weakened condition. Some attributed its condition to the Encino Reservoir, built in 1921, for cutting off the natural water flow to the tree. Others blamed it on air pollution from traffic on nearby Ventura Boulevard. It also suffered from oak-root fungus. In 1991, it was diagnosed with slime flux, a tree ailment caused by bacteria that generate fermentation inside the tree and send toxic sap oozing through the bark. Arborists reported that the tree desperately needed special care to save it. Arborists and city officials argued over the proper treatment for the ailing tree, with one arborist suggesting the city chisel small holes in the bark to release the toxic sap that was slowly killing the oak. Others suggested the drilling would put too much stress on the tree, which should be allowed to heal itself.\n\nEfforts to save the ailing oak became a publicized cause. In 1996, the \"Times\" reported on the oak: \"His skin is mottled, some of his limbs are held together with pins, and his great, shaggy head hangs from its own weight. Old Lang is in trouble.\" In 1997, the Encino oak was honored at an Arbor Day ceremony attended by Wirt Morton, the great-great-grandson of National Arbor Day founder J. Sterling Morton, who on seeing the giant oak said: \"I've never seen anything as phenomenal as that.\"\n\nOn February 7, 1998, an El Niño storm \"delivered the death blow, felling the ailing tree with storm winds.\" As news of the tree’s demise spread, onlookers gathered, some crying and taking branches as mementos. After decades of being threatened by development and pollution, one resident noted the irony that \"now it goes because of nature.\" As souvenir-hunters sought to take pieces of the tree, police officers guarded it until its remains could be removed. One officer noted: \"It got out of control. It's sad that we had to take two policemen off the street to watch a tree.\" \n\nIn the weeks following the tree's death, city officials debated what should be done with the tree's remains, leading the \"Times\" to ask: \"How many bureaucrats, City Council aides, homeowners, urban planners and arborists does it take to decree the fate of a fallen king, the mighty oak of Ventura Boulevard?\" Ultimately, the city opted to plant five new trees where the Encino oak had grown—three California sycamores and two coast live oaks. The city also unveiled an oval slice of the tree in an April 1999 ribbon-cutting ceremony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36641570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36641570", "title": "Exploration Mission-1", "text": "Exploration Mission-1\n\nExploration Mission-1 or EM-1 (previously known as Space Launch System 1 or SLS-1) is the uncrewed first planned flight of the Space Launch System and the second flight of the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle. The launch is planned for June 2020 from Launch Complex 39B at the Kennedy Space Center. The Orion spacecraft will spend approximately 3 weeks in space, including 6 days in a retrograde orbit around the Moon. It is planned to be followed by Exploration Mission 2 in 2023.\n\nThe Block 1 version of SLS used on this mission will consist of two five-segment Solid Rocket Boosters, four RS-25D engines built for the Space Shuttle program and an Interim Cryogenic Propulsion Stage. EM-1 is intended to demonstrate the integrated spacecraft systems prior to a crewed flight, and in addition, test a high speed reentry (11 km/s) on Orion's thermal protection system.\n\nOn 16 January 2013, NASA announced that the European Space Agency will build the Orion Service Module based on its Automated Transfer Vehicle, so the flight could also be regarded as a test of ESA hardware as well as American, and of how the ESA components interact with the American Orion components.\n\nThe Exploration Flight Test 1 (EFT-1) flight article was consciously constructed in a way that if all the missing components (seats, life support systems) were added, it would not meet the mass target. It was planned that subsequent capsules would be modified to be lighter, based on manufacturing experience.\n\nIn January 2015 NASA and Lockheed announced that some components in the EM-1 capsule would be up to 25 percent lighter compared to the previous one. This would be achieved by changes to the primary structure - the EM-1 article would be welded together from 3 panels for the cone, as opposed to 6 panels used for the EFT-1 article. The total number of welds was reduced from 19 to 7, thus saving the additional mass of the weld material. Other savings would be due to revisiting its various components and wiring. For EM-1 the capsule will be outfitted with complete life support system and crew seats, but will be left uncrewed. However, in February 2017 NASA announced that Robert M. Lightfoot Jr., the agency's Acting Administrator, had asked the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate to study the feasibility of redesigning the mission to include a crew.\n\nThe mission will be uncrewed, however NASA did initiate a study to investigate a crewed version of the mission. A crewed version of EM-1 would be composed of a crew of two astronauts, and will be much shorter than the uncrewed version due to safety reasons. The study investigated a crewed mission even with the possibility of further delays to the launch. On 12 May 2017 NASA revealed that it will not be sending astronauts to space for Orion's EM-1 mission following a months-long feasibility study.\n\nOriginally EM-1 was planned to follow a circumlunar trajectory without entering orbit around the Moon.\n\nNASA has partnered with the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and the Israel Space Agency (ISA) in conjunction with StemRad and Lockheed Martin to perform the Matroshka AstroRad Radiation Experiment (MARE), which will measure tissue dose deposition and test the effectiveness of the AstroRad radiation vest in a radiation environment beyond low Earth orbit. While radiation shielding strategies of the past have relied on storm shelters in which astronauts can seek refuge as solar storms erupt, the AstroRad's ergonomic design provides a mobile protection system with the same shielding factor as storm shelters without hindering the astronauts’ ability to perform mission sensitive tasks.\n\nThe crew compartment of the unmanned EM-1 Orion spacecraft will include two female anthropomorphic phantoms which will be exposed to the intense radiation environment along the lunar orbit, including solar storms and galactic cosmic rays. One phantom will be shielded with the AstroRad and the other will be left unprotected. The phantoms provide the opportunity to precisely measure radiation exposure not only at the surface of the body, but also at the exact location of sensitive organs and tissues inside the human body. Radiation exposure will be measured with implementation of both passive and active dosimeters intentionally distributed throughout the inside of the anthropomorphic phantoms at precise locations of sensitive tissues and high stem cell concentrations. The results of MARE should enable Orion as a platform for other scientific experiments, provide accurate radiation risk projections of deep space exploration, and validate the protective properties of the AstroRad.\n\nThirteen low-cost CubeSat missions were competitively selected as secondary payloads on the EM-1 test flight. They will reside within the second stage on the launch vehicle from which they will be deployed. Two CubeSats have been selected through NASA's Next Space Technologies for Exploration Partnership, three through the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate, two through the Science Mission Directorate, and three were chosen from submissions by NASA's international partners. The CubeSat spacecraft selected are:\n\n\nThe remaining three slots were selected through a competition pitting CubeSat teams from the United States against each other in a series of ground tournaments called 'NASA's Cube Quest Challenge', and were announced by NASA Ames on 8 June 2017. The competition was to contribute to opening deep-space exploration to non-government spacecraft. These slots were awarded to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49730114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49730114", "title": "Federalization of Syria", "text": "Federalization of Syria\n\nThe partition or federalization of Syria is a scenario to end the Syrian Civil War. In the broadest sense, it means turning the centralized Syrian Arab Republic into a federal republic with autonomous subdivisions. Many powers and actors involved in the Syrian Civil War have entertained the idea of \"federal division\", not least among them Russia, United Nations representatives, and the United States. President Bashar al-Assad has not ruled out the possibility of a federal democratic state of Syria. In particular, Turkey is strongly hostile towards the idea of a federalization of Syria because it fears possible repercussions for its own highly centralized state.\n\nDue to the fact that federalization would more or less follow ethnic and possibly also religious-sectarian lines, it has been dismissed as \"division of the country\" and \"Balkanization\" by its opponents. Mainstream institutions of the Syrian opposition based in Turkey or Qatar like the Syrian National Council and the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces have consistently rejected the idea of federalization, while in particular Kurds in Syria have promoted the idea. The Egypt-based opposition party Syria's Tomorrow Movement takes an intermediate position.\n\nOn 17 March 2016, the Federation of Northern Syria - Rojava was unilaterally declared a federation of autonomous cantons modelled after the Cantons of Switzerland, namely Afrin Canton, Jazira Canton and Kobanî Canton as well as Shahba region. The federation is considered by its protagonists to be a model for Syria as a whole. The move was dismissed by the Syrian government and disapproved by Turkey and the United States.\n\nIn September 2016, the Secretary-General of the Arab League, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, came out in an interview as one of the first regional politicians taking a public stand for the federalization of Syria. He said that the establishment of a federal system in Syria would \"guarantee to preserve the institutions and unity\" and that a federal system would be \"the most appropriate solution and will protect the country from destruction.\"\n\nIn October 2016, a Russian initiative for federalization with a focus on northern Syria was reported, which at its core called to turn the existing institutions of the Federation of Northern Syria - Rojava into legitimate institutions of Syria; also reported was its rejection for the time being by the Syrian government.\n\nAfter multilateral peace talks in Astana in January 2017, Russia offered a draft for a future constitution of Syria, which would inter alia turn the \"Syrian Arab Republic\" into the \"Republic of Syria\", introduce decentralized authorities as well as elements of federalism like \"association areas\", strengthen the parliament at the cost of the presidency, and realize secularism by abolishing Islamic jurisprudence as a source of legislation. The same month, United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said that \"implementation of an Dayton style accord in Syria and introduction of some form of a federal solution in Syria (...) may indeed be the right way forward or the only way forward in the end of all this.\"\n\nDuring the French mandate, Syria was subdivided into various autonomous entities, most of which bore the designation \"state\" (in French \"État\"; in Arabic \"Dawlat\"):\n\nThese autonomous entities did not correspond to the administrative division of Ottoman Syria. Two of these states, Hatay and Lebanon, were subsequently detached from Syrian territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "973585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=973585", "title": "Fur Rendezvous Festival", "text": "Fur Rendezvous Festival\n\nThe Fur Rendezvous Festival (usually called Fur Rendezvous, Fur Rondy, or simply Rondy) is an annual winter festival held in Anchorage, Alaska in late February. The self-styled \"largest winter festival in North America\", Fur Rendezvous is highly anticipated by many Anchorage-area residents as marking the beginning of the end of a long winter and the approach of spring. In 2012, Fur Rendezvous was selected as the number one winter carnival in the world by the National Geographic Traveler. \n\nThe name \"Fur Rendezvous\" derives from swap meets at which fur trappers would gather to sell their winter harvests. In early Anchorage, these usually took place in mid-February.\n\nIn 1935, Anchorage had a population of only about 3,000 and was very isolated, so to bring the community together and lift spirits, resident Vern Johnson organized a three-day sports tournament, called the \"Winter Sports Carnival\", timed to coincide with the rendezvous, which brought increased activity. As the fur trade was then the second-largest industry in Alaska, folding it into the event seemed natural, and it was renamed the \"Winter Sports Tournament and Fur Rendezvous\" from 1937, and later just Fur Rendezvous.\n\nIt was common for miners and trappers to have beards in the early days, so a \"law\" was even made that all men had to grow beards for this event or suffer a fine! This was considered to be part of the fun, because most men participated in it.\n\nFur Rendezvous was canceled during the war years, but resumed in 1946, when the festival began to draw visitors from Outside, and has been held every year since. Since 1955 the event has been run by the non-profit Greater Anchorage, Inc.\n\nTraditionally Fur Rendezvous lasted ten days, but since 2004 it has extended through early March, in order to lead into the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race and draw more visitors.\n\nThe original Winter Sports Carnival included skiing, hockey, basketball, boxing, and a sled dog race for children, as well as a bonfire and torchlight parade. Modern Rondy has well over 100 events; some of the more significant include:\n\nMany events tend toward the whimsical, such as the Outhouse Races (in which teams build outhouses and pull them on skis with a rider inside), ice bowling, or even snowshoe softball matches. Others focus on Alaska Native culture, such as the Multi-Tribal Gathering and Native Arts and Crafts Show.\n\nSince 1939, promotional pins have been created and sold each year to raise money for the event. These pins have become popular collectibles, and older or rare pins can sell well in excess of $100. The Anchorage University Kiwanis Club sells pins and booster buttons dressed as Keystone Cops for the duration of the festival. During the parade the Keystone Cops, or \"Rondy Kops,\" playfully detain attendees in a mobile jail until pins or buttons are purchased in exchange for their release.\n\n"}
{"id": "23270631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23270631", "title": "Gerrards Cross Tunnel", "text": "Gerrards Cross Tunnel\n\nGerrards Cross Tunnel is a railway tunnel in Gerrards Cross, Buckinghamshire, on the Chiltern Main Line. The purpose of the tunnel was to enable a new Tesco supermarket to be built over the railway line. Plans were initially met with anger by local residents, and the council refused planning permission but this decision was overturned by John Prescott.\n\nDuring construction of the tunnel, it partially collapsed on 30 June 2005. No-one was injured in the accident, although a train heading towards the tunnel when it collapsed had to perform an emergency stop. Early reports suspected the cause was the backfilling operation; the Health and Safety Executive are yet to release their findings owing to legal issues.\n\nDespite the incident, the construction continued in 2007 with different contractors building the tunnel. The store opened in November 2010, fourteen years after the project was commissioned.\n\nTesco, the third largest retailer in the world measured by revenues and the second largest measured by profits first proposed a store on the site in 1996. The local council also objected to the development and a public inquiry endorsed this decision. In July 1998, however, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott overturned the council's ruling on the basis of the recommendations of an independent planning inspector. Due to a lack of space in the area, Tesco had proposed building over the railway line, which would free up a large area of land suitable for the development.\n\nThe work was let under a design and build contract to Jackson Civil Engineering, who announced the store would be designed by White Young Green, and specialist supplier Reinforced Earth Company. Work started on site in early 2003. At the time Jackson Civil Engineering were part of the Peterhouse Group, which was subsequently bought by Babcock International Group in 2004, after the Jackson Civil Engineering division had been sold in a management buyout. Babcock were still subject to the parent company guarantee that Peterhouse Group had entered into when the contract to build the tunnel was let.\n\nThe design used precast concrete sections, each of which made up half of a three-pinned arch. These segments were connected to each other at the middle of the arch, and material then built back up over the arch, known as backfilling. The method of construction was not unique. \"There are eight tunnels like this in Britain,\" said James Ford of Chiltern Railways, \"and something like a thousand worldwide.\" At the time of collapse, construction work on the tunnel segments had finished, and the backfilling operation was taking place. The foundations had been built and the steel frame of the supermarket erected.\n\nAt 7.34pm on 30 June 2005, 30 metres of the 320 metre tunnel collapsed. At the time, there were no trains passing through the tunnel, although one train, heading west towards High Wycombe, had to make an emergency stop. The train had passed through Denham Golf Club station, the last stop before Gerrards Cross, before the driver was warned by radio. He reversed the train to Denham Golf Club, where all passengers were let off. Additionally, a London-bound train was standing at the eastbound platform at Gerrards Cross waiting to depart. The driver of this train had just set the train in motion when he saw the collapse, stopped his train using the emergency brake, and informed the railway signallers by radio; they in turn stopped other trains. There were no casualties as a result of the incident. \nOne witness told a news channel that he was parking his car when he heard \"what sounded like a clap of thunder - I thought it was an earthquake. I saw the tunnel falling on to the rail track.\" Reg Whittome, chairman of the Marylebone Travellers' Association and the Chiltern Railway Passenger Board, said after the incident that, had a train been going through the tunnel when it collapsed, there would have been an \"almighty tragedy\". He added: \"Had it been during the rush hour, hundreds could have been killed.\"\n\nService was disrupted for two months after the collapse, until 22 August 2005, so material could be removed from site. The line was closed and rail replacement bus services were operated. The 29 precast concrete segments that had collapsed were removed, together with another 16 segments that were damaged. Extensive design checks were carried out to ensure that the sections of tunnel lining that had not collapsed were safe. 15,000 tonnes of material were removed from the area which had suffered the collapse, and 12,000 tonnes of backfill was removed from the undamaged sections. Despite the railway line reopening, approval was not given to carry on with the work as originally proposed. Network Rail and Chiltern Railways advised that further checks were required to confirm the safety of the design.\n\n\"The tunnel has collapsed. We've now got to assess today why that happened,\" said Robin Gisby, head of operations for Network Rail. \"Experts are in there right now and they will work through the tunnel and decide what was the cause of the delay. Then we're going to make it safe, then we're going to work out how we're going to clear up the considerable problem we've got. There's a couple of thousand tonnes of material in there that we've got to move. We've got to get the concrete structure, that has collapsed, out. We've probably got to do all of that by road. Although we brought the material in by rail, we don't think we can get it out by rail, but we won't assess that until later on today and through the night. I think that's going to be at least a week's work, possibly longer, before we can restore rail services on this route. Passengers are being advised to travel via alternative routes and buses have also been ordered. We are currently putting arrangements in place to minimise disruption.\"\n\nAt the time of the accident, James Ford added that no further work would be carried out on the tunnel unless it had been certified as safe. \"As to whether or not Tesco plans to continue building above the tunnel, we just don't know,\" he said. \"What we do know is that there will be no further work, or anything that could have an effect on it, unless Network Rail and the HSE are satisfied that it's safe to do so. Network Rail will consult us if this situation arises. Tesco may, however, choose to continue work on parts of the supermarket project that are not directly connected to the tunnel.\"\n\nThe initial investigations into the cause of collapse focused on the backfilling operation. The tunnel segments allowed for substantial vertical settlement during construction, and it was vital that the material was built up evenly on both sides and over the crown of the arch. Shortly after the incident, however, Gisby said that \"something\" about the backfilling \"is not right.\" The chief executive of Jackson Civil Engineering, however, said that the process used was \"in line with what the design allowed. There was a strict loading regime in place.\" Geotechnical engineers commenting in the wake of the incident expressed surprise at the difference in fill levels on either side of the arch, and doubts were expressed that the backfilling had been in accordance with the method statement. \"The collapse was probably due to too much load on the crown of the arch and not enough fill on the sides,\" the head of a specialist consulting firm said.\n\n\"Units [appear to] have failed by creating a hinge in the concrete section. The hinge has rotated downwards, which is consistent with the crown of the arch moving downwards under excessive load and/or the sides of the arch moving outwards under too little lateral restraint. This problem would have been made worse if there was a significant difference in the level of the fill on the two sides. At the section that is still standing the central hinge has bent down indicating an imbalance between the vertical and horizontal loads and a failure by outward spreading of the arch.\" He added that heavy rainfall, which had hit Gerrards Cross several days before the collapse, may have made the problem worse. \"It is possible that rainfall increased the vertical load on the tunnel. At the same time, if the fill at the sides is not completely free draining, it could have led to a reduction in the passive pressure available from the fill on the sides.\" Another construction specialist said: \"You could trigger failure if you go straight from full depth fill over one section straight to no fill; that is, a section that's fully flexed next to one that's unflexed.\"\n\nThe Health and Safety Executive launched an investigation into the collapse in 2005. Owing to the complex nature of the probe, it remained open until 2015. A final report has been prepared, but has not yet been made public pending resolution of legal issues.\n\nThe incident brought protests from local residents and the council. The local Conservative MP, Dominic Grieve, said: \"If this particular disaster encourages Tesco to not go ahead with the scheme, everyone in Gerrards Cross will be absolutely delighted.\" Peter Hardy, the leader of South Bucks district council, added after the landslide that there would be \"further years of disruption ... It would be better to abandon the project. I'm not against Tesco as such, but as a council, we want the inquiry into the collapse of the tunnel to be open and transparent. We want to know why such a hugely complex engineering process has been deemed necessary to build a relatively small new Tesco store. And we want something positive back from Tesco.\"\n\nThere were protests by local residents against the store. One protester said they were \"fighting to get Tesco to tell us exactly why the tunnel collapsed, and to stop them from succeeding in winning further planning permission to continue work on the store.\" Some were less opposed to the store. \"People here like to have a go at Tesco,\" an estate agent said. \"I suppose most of us would have preferred a Marks & Spencer food hall, but we'll all shop in Tesco anyway.\"\n\nIn 2006, Tesco appointed a new team to carry out the design and construction of the tunnel and store. Costain were assigned as main contractor and Scott Wilson as lead designer. In light of the collapse, a far more cautious approach was taken to the design. Precast concrete arch sections were used, but these simply act as formwork for a 600mm thick in-situ concrete continuous arch, a much more robust structure. To further reduce the loading on the tunnel, piled walls have been installed either side of the tunnel, and a lighter fill material—including foamed concrete—used over the top of the arch.\n\nThe store opened in late November 2010, 5 years later than originally planned, and 14 years after the project started. The store manager, Lizzie Field, said: \"We are really pleased to support our local community at a time when so many people are looking for jobs, and there is so much competition between applicants. The quality of applicants was fantastic and my new team and I are already enjoying working together.\" When the store opened, the \"Bucks Free Press\" reported that there was still opposition to the \"controversial\" store. The newspaper reported that \"some have complained about dust coming from the site, as well as traffic delays while roadworks were carried out.\" A local resident, who protested against the project since it was announced, said: \"It's been very very frustrating. I won't be using the store and a lot of people in Gerrards Cross feel the same way. I think the traffic situation is going to be horrendous.\"\n"}
{"id": "9006336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9006336", "title": "Gestation crate", "text": "Gestation crate\n\nA gestation crate, also known as a sow stall, is a metal enclosure in which a farmed sow used for breeding may be kept during pregnancy and after parturition in order to keep her piglets safe in a small space setting. A standard crate measures 6.6 ft x 2.0 ft (2 m x 60 cm). \n\nSow stalls contain no bedding material and are instead floored with slatted plastic, concrete or metal to allow waste to be efficiently collected below. This waste is then flushed into open-air pits known as lagoons. A few days before giving birth, sows are moved to farrowing crates where they are able to lie down, with an attached crate from which their piglets can nurse.\n\nThere were 5.36 million breeding sows in the United States as of 2016, out of a total of 50.1 million pigs. Most pregnant sows in the US are kept in gestation crates. The crates are banned for new installations only in Canada, so many sows are still confined in Canadian pig breeding facilities. They are banned in the United Kingdom and Sweden, and in nine states in the US (Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Maine, Michigan, Ohio, Oregon and Rhode Island). However, farrowing crates, in which female breeding pigs can be kept for up to five weeks, are not banned.\n\nOpponents of the crates argue that they constitute animal abuse, while proponents say they are needed to prevent sows from fighting among themselves.\n\nBetween 60 and 70 percent of sows are kept in crates during pregnancy in the United States. Each pregnancy lasts for three months, three weeks, and three days. Sows will have an average of 2.5 litters every year for two or three years, most of which is spent in the crates. They give birth to between five and eight litters before being culled from the herd. Some older sows may reach a size at which they have to sleep on their chests, unable to lie on their sides as pigs usually do. The floors are slatted to allow excrement and other waste to fall into a pit below.\n\nA few days before giving birth, sows are moved to farrowing crates, which are slightly wider so they can lie down to nurse. Crates have 18-in. (46-cm) \"troughs\" on each side where the piglets can safely lie without being in danger of sow overlay (when the sow lies down on top of a piglet).\n\nPiglet survival also depends on selection pressure. Groups of piglets bred for higher survival showed no difference in mortality when weaned in farrowing crates and outdoor systems.\n\nAlthough farrowing crates have been used based on the assumption that they reduce piglet mortality rates, there is little published evidence in support of this claim. The most comprehensive publication to date on this subject concluded that there is no significant effect of housing on overall piglet mortality, the authors stating that “Despite the fact that the crate system has been considered to reduce piglet mortality mainly through a reduction of crushing, there is not much scientific evidence for this when considering the few large surveys that compare the mortality rate in commercial herds“. The review goes on to describe several large studies dating from as early as 1983, the majority of which found no difference in piglet mortality rates between loose and crated sows. The review also details an argument as to why piglet mortality rates have been reported to be somewhat higher in a comparably small number of studies, citing methodological flaws.\n\nIn the European Union, the crates must not be used after the fourth week of pregnancy following a 2013 EU Directive. They are illegal at all times in the United Kingdom and Sweden.\n\nThe use of gestation crates following mating will be phased out in New Zealand by 2015. However the crates are still legal for up to 4 weeks after farrowing. A review lead by the Ministry for Primary Industries, in 2016, found that \"The current code of welfare allows for up to 5% of sows to be retained in crates for a further week (following the 4 week maximum in crates post-farrowing) as nurse sows. This\npractice enables slowly growing or poorly performing piglets to be properly weaned. It has\nbeen noted that industry does not accept or comply with this requirement and some\nproducers are exceeding both the maximum 5% of sows allowed to be retained for this\npurpose and the amount of time that they are being retained (i.e. greater than the one\nweek maximum as stated in the code).\" And \"The current code requires that sows in any farrowing system constructed after 3 December 2010, must be provided with material that can be manipulated until farrowing (to allow\nthe sow to perform nesting behaviour which she is extremely motivated to do). It has been\nnoted by NAWAC during this review that industry disagrees with this requirement and\ndoes not comply with this minimum standard.\"\n\nIn 2014 Canada instituted a nationwide ban on new gestation crates.\nIn the United States, they have been banned in Florida since 2002, Arizona since 2006, and California since late 2008. A Rhode Island law banning the crates, passed in June 2012, took effect in June 2013. They are also being phased out in Colorado, Maine, Michigan, Ohio and Oregon.\n\nAs of 2013 New Jersey had a pig population of about 9,000 none of which, according to the Humane Society, are kept in gestation crates. In survey conducted in 2013, 90% of New Jersey voters were in favor of banning the crates. In June 2013, Governor Chris Christie vetoed S1921, a bill to ban pig gestation crates. which had passed in the General Assembly with a vote of 60-5 and the Senate 29-4. An attempt to override the veto did not come to a vote. In October 2014 the New Jersey Legislature adopted S998 with a vote in the Senate of 32-1 and in the Assembly 53-13 (with 9 abstentions) On 27 November 2014 Christie vetoed the bill.\n\nOver 60 major food companies have policies to eliminate their use.\n\nSmithfield Foods, the largest pork producer in the United States, said in January 2007 that it will phase out gestation crates from its 187 piggeries over the next ten years because of concerns from its customers. In 2009 the company stated it would no longer be able to phase them out in ten years due to recent low sales, but reversed the decision in 2011 after intense pressure from the Humane Society of the United States.\n\nIn February 2012 McDonald's announced that it would begin working with suppliers to phase out the use of gestation crates in response to pressure from the Humane Society of the United States and other animal advocates. McDonald's purchases around one percent of all pork in the United States.\n\nAnimal welfare advocates regard the use of gestation crates as one of the most inhumane features of intensive animal production. Temple Grandin of Colorado State University's Department of Animal Science said in 2007: \"... basically you’re asking a sow to live in an airline seat.\"\n\nPork producers argue that gestation crates are needed because sows that are housed together in pens will fight, injuring or killing their fellow penmates. The same effect could be achieved with larger pens that kept the animals separate, but allowed them more freedom of movement. There are also other ways of reducing, but not eliminating, aggression besides gestation crates. These include eliminating overcrowding, not mixing pigs from different litters, providing straw or other bedding material, and providing sufficient food that not only meets nutritional needs but satisfies the appetite. Other important means to reduce aggression among sows rely on alternative feeding methods, as many sows will compete with each other for food. These include trickle feeding systems, individual feeding stalls, and electronic sow feeding equipment, all of which resolve feed competition among pigs.\n\nEarly veterinary studies seemed to support the use of gestation crates. According to the U.S. National Pork Producers Council, which promotes pork as a food product and is a leading proponent of gestation crates, the American Veterinary Medical Association \"recognize[s] gestation stalls and group housing systems as appropriate for providing for the well-being of sows during pregnancy.\" While the practice of immobilizing the animals in crates limits fighting, it subsequently increases the animals' stress levels, causing other health problems. The American Association of Swine Veterinarians adopted a position statement in 2002 specifying five standards of sow welfare and concluding, \"Current scientific literature indicates that individual gestation stalls meet each of the aforementioned, provided the appropriate level of stockmanship is administered.\"\n\"The Washington Post\" reported in 2001 that researchers have not found sows in gestation crates to have elevated levels of stress hormones. The paper notes that this suggests their overall health is not compromised. Some producers in Europe use a “free access” maternity pen configuration in which sows are in individual pens for the first four weeks of pregnancy but can “unlock” the stall by backing out and entering a common area. The producers observed that pregnant pigs will stay in the individual pens more than 90 percent of the time, and return to the same stall more than 90 percent of the time. \n\nHowever, other veterinary studies contradict those earlier studies. A 1997 report of the Scientific Veterinary Committee of the European Union, where a gestation crate ban went into effect in 2013, noted that because \"overall welfare appears to be better when sows are not confined throughout gestation, sows should be preferably be kept in groups.\" Likewise in 2008, the Pew Commission on Industrial Farm Animal Production, after 2.5 years of research, recommended \"the phase-out, within 10 years, of all intensive confinement systems that restrict natural movement and normal behaviors, including swine gestation crates.\"\n\nMany studies have shown that sows in crates exhibit behavior such as bar-biting, head weaving, and tongue rolling, indicating chronic frustration. Sows in crates bite the bars, chew even when they have no food, and press their water bottles obsessively, all reportedly signs of boredom. The \"Post\"(uncited reference) writes that a report by veterinarians for the European Union concluded that abnormal behavior in sows \"develop[s] when the animal is severely or chronically frustrated. Hence their development indicates that the animal is having difficulty in coping and its welfare is poor.\" This behavior, such as bar-biting and other stereotypic behavior can also lead to other physical trauma, such as sores from frequent contact with the metal bars, and mouth sores from sham-chewing and bar-biting. They also show behavior that indicates learned helplessness, according to Morris, such as remaining passive when poked or when a bucket of water is thrown over them. A review by the Scientific Veterinary Council of the European Commission states that repetitive \"stereotypical\" behavior has been found in \"every detailed study\" of pigs in gestation crates, but not in any other housing systems examined. A 2004 literature review by animal scientists determined that sows in stalls exhibited more \"stereotypical\" behavior than sows in group housing, but that animals housed in stalls had lower injury rates and higher farrowing rates. Some studies have shown that \"sow behavior has been shown to differ among housing systems; often it seems to be the non-housing component (i.e., direction of bar, other substances present) of the system that is responsible for the behavior displayed by the sow.\"\n\nMany other health related issues are to be found among pigs confined within gestation crates as opposed to group housing systems. Some of these include urinary tract infections, respiratory disease, skin lesions (e.g. pressure sores), excessive heat-loss, bone density, muscle health, cardiovascular health, foot injuries, damage to joints, and even lameness\n\nAccording to John Webster, head of the Veterinary School at Bristol University in the United Kingdom, \"Sows on concrete in confinement stalls suffer abuse according to all the Five Freedoms.\" These include freedom from hunger, discomfort, pain, distress, and freedom to express normal behavior. Sows that have to lay on concrete flooring can experience excessive heat loss and chronic physical discomfort, while this same concrete flooring can contribute to foot injuries, joint pain complications, and skin lesions - due to the pigs prolonged contact with an unusually hard surface and chronic inactivity.\n\nPoor cardiovascular health, bone density issues, and poor muscle health all have been attributed to lack of exercise. The decreased amount of muscle mass makes even simple movements difficult, while one study found that crated sows had two thirds the bone density of non-crated sows, with researchers concluding that weakened bones led to a higher incidence of broken bones or injuries and another study finding that a common factor in mortality cases was leg weakness. The lameness contributed to these weakened bones is also in part due to the hardness of the concrete flooring, which inevitably leads to a higher incidence of injuries to the feet and or legs, not to mention shoulder sores and abrasions to the skin from rocks, sharp edges, and bolts fastening the crates in place. This same flooring is thought to contribute to toe lesions, with some reports claiming that up to 80% of crated sows suffer from this illness. Due to lack of exercise, sows may develop a number of additional physical conditions that compromise their overall well-being. Urinary tract infections may develop as a result of the pigs immobility, which causes them to drink less frequently and consequently develop bacteria within the urinary tract. Though this same illness is contributed to the fact that sows are forced to lie, or sit, in their own feces - another reason some think there is a higher incidence of respiratory disease among sows confined in gestation crates.\n\nIn a symposium held in 2002 on swine housing and well being, Edmond A. Pajor, Associate Professor at Purdue University, told the audience that \"In gestation stalls, sows are prevented from performing many of the behavior patterns that pigs would perform in more natural or less restricted conditions resulting in a negative impact on sow welfare.\"\n\nPaul Sundberg, a veterinarian and vice president of the U.S. National Pork Board, a leading proponent of gestation crates, told \"The Washington Post\": \"Farmers treat their animals well because that's just good business. The key to sow welfare isn't whether they are kept in individual crates or group housing, but whether the system used is well managed.\" Sundberg said: \"[S]cience tells us that she [a sow] doesn't even seem to know that she can't turn ... She wants to eat and feel safe, and she can do that very well in individual stalls.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43010859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43010859", "title": "Gikas Hardouvelis", "text": "Gikas Hardouvelis\n\nGikas Hardouvelis ( ; born 8 October 1955) is a former Minister of Finance of Greece. He replaced Yannis Stournaras on 10 June 2014 following a cabinet reshuffle.\n\nBorn in the village of Poulithra in Arcadia, Hardouvelis is a professor of finance and economics, Department of Banking and Financial Management at the University of Piraeus and chief economist and director of research, EUROBANK Group. He held position of the director of the Economic Office of Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos (November 2011 – May 2012), assisting the government during talks with bondholders about a writedown of debt and with the International Monetary Fund, European Commission and the European Central Bank on Greece’s second adjustment program. During 2000–2004, he was director of the Economic Office of Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitis.\n\nHe holds a Ph.D. in economics (1983, U.C. Berkeley), and M.Sc. & B.A. in applied mathematics (1978, Harvard University). He was assistant professor at Barnard College, Columbia University (1983–1989), associate professor and subsequently full professor at Rutgers University (1989–1993).\n\nHe served as a research adviser and economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (1987–1993) and as an adviser of the Bank of Greece for the next two years (1994–1995), where he also acted as second alternate to the governor at the European Monetary Institute (precursor to the European Central Bank). Between 1996 and 2000 he held the post of chief economist at the National Bank of Greece, where he restructured the Economic Analysis Division, created the Risk Management Division, the Assets-Liabilities Management Department, and the Investors Relations Department. He also played a critical role in the establishment of the Athens Derivatives Exchange, as an original member of its board of directors (1997–2000). In the subsequent years he joined Eurobank as its chief economist.\n\nHis academic work extends in finance and macroeconomics and is published in many internationally renowned journals, including The American Economic Review, The Journal of Finance, The Quarterly Journal of Economics, the Journal of Monetary Economics and others.\n\nHe was among the top-50 individual publishers worldwide in applied econometrics over 1989 to 1995.\nHis work on margin requirements had a crucial impact on shaping the reform of the legal framework governing the markets of futures on stock indices in the US.\n\n"}
{"id": "12607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12607", "title": "Glasnost", "text": "Glasnost\n\nIn the Russian language the word Glasnost (; , ) has several general and specific meanings. It has been used in Russian to mean \"openness and transparency\" since at least the end of the eighteenth century. \n\nIn the Russian Empire of the late-19th century, the term was particularly associated with reforms of the judicial system, ensuring that the press and the public could attend court hearings and that the sentence was read out in public. In the mid-1980s, it was popularised by Mikhail Gorbachev as a political slogan for increased government transparency in the Soviet Union.\n\n\"For centuries\", human rights activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva has explained, the word \"glasnost\" has been in the Russian language: \"It was in the dictionaries and lawbooks as long as there had been dictionaries and lawbooks. It was an ordinary, hardworking, non-descript word that was used to refer to a process, any process of justice or governance, being conducted in the open.\" In the mid-1960s, however, as Alexeyeva recounts, it acquired a new and topical importance.\n\nOn 5 December 1965, a key event in the emergence of the Soviet civil rights movement, often known as the Glasnost rally, took place in Moscow when protesters on Pushkin Square led by Alexander Yesenin-Volpin demanded access to the closed trial of Yuly Daniel and Andrei Sinyavsky. They specifically asked for \"glasnost\", i.e. the admission of the public, independent observers and foreign journalists, to the trial, something that was required in the newly issued, but not widely available, Code of Criminal Procedure. With a few specified exceptions, Article 111 of the Code stated that judicial hearings in the USSR should be held in public.\n\nSuch protests against closed trials continued throughout the post-Stalin era. Andrei Sakharov, famously, did not travel to Oslo to receive his Nobel Peace Prize because he was standing outside a court building in Vilnius (Lithuania), demanding access to the 1976 trial of Sergei Kovalev, an editor of the \"Chronicle of Current Events\" and prominent rights activist.\n\nIn 1986, aware of the term's historical and more recent resonance, Mikhail Gorbachev and his advisers adopted \"glasnost\" as a political slogan, together with the obscure \"perestroika\".\n\nGlasnost was taken to mean increased openness and transparency in government institutions and activities in the Soviet Union (USSR). \"Glasnost\" apparently reflected a commitment to getting Soviet citizens to discuss publicly the problems of their system and seek solutions. Gorbachev encouraged popular scrutiny and criticism of leaders, as well as a certain level of exposure by the mass media. Some critics, especially among legal reformers and dissidents, regarded the Soviet authorities' new slogans as vague and limited alternatives to more basic liberties. \n\nAlexei Simonov, president of the Glasnost Defence Foundation, would define the term as follows: \"Glasnost is a tortoise crawling towards Freedom of Speech\". \n\nBetween 1986 and 1991, when the USSR attempted and failed to reform itself, glasnost was frequently linked with other generalised concepts such as perestroika (literally: restructuring or regrouping) and demokratizatsiya (democratisation). Gorbachev often appealed to glasnost when promoting policies aimed at reducing corruption at the top of the Communist Party and the Soviet government, and moderating the abuse of administrative power in the Central Committee.\n\nThe ambiguity of \"glasnost\" defines the distinctive five-year period (1986–1991) at the end of the USSR's existence. There was decreasing pre-publication and pre-broadcast censorship and greater freedom of information.\n\nThe \"Era of Glasnost\" saw greater contact between Soviet citizens and the Western world, particularly the United States: restrictions on travel were loosened for many, allowing increased business and cultural interchange.\n\nGorbachev's interpretation of \"glasnost\" can best be summarized, translated, and explained in English as \"openness\". While associated with freedom of speech, the main goal of this policy was to make the country's management transparent, and circumvent the narrow circle of bureaucrats who previously exercised complete control of the economy. \n\nSoviet history under Stalin was re-examined; censored literature in the libraries was made more widely available; and there was a greater freedom of speech for citizens and openness in the media.\n\nPropaganda about the supposedly higher quality of consumer goods and quality of life in the United States and Western Europe began to be transmitted to the Soviet population, along with western popular culture.\n\nThe outright prohibition of censorship was enshrined in Article 29 of the new 1993 Constitution of the Russian Federation. This did not end attempts by officials to restrict access to information in post-Soviet Russia or pressure by the authorities on media outlets not to publicise or discuss certain events or subjects. Monitoring of the infringement of media rights in the years from 2004 to 2013 would find that instances of censorship were the most commonly reported type of violation.\n\nThere were also periodic concerns about the extent of glasnost in court proceedings, as restrictions were placed on access to certain cases for the media and for the public\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27211679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27211679", "title": "Goose pulling", "text": "Goose pulling\n\nGoose pulling (also called gander pulling, goose riding, pulling the goose or goose neck tearing) was a blood sport practiced in parts of the Netherlands, Belgium, England, and North America from the 17th to the 19th centuries. It originated in the 12th century in Spain and was spread around Europe by the Spanish Third. The sport involved fastening a live goose with a well-greased head to a rope or pole that was stretched across a road. A man riding on horseback at a full gallop would attempt to grab the bird by the neck in order to pull the head off. Sometimes a live hare was substituted. \n\nIt is still practiced today, using a dead goose, in parts of Belgium and in Grevenbicht in the Netherlands as part of Shrove Tuesday and in some towns in Germany as part of the Shrove Monday celebrations. It is referred to as \"Ganstrekken\" in the Netherlands, \"Gansrijden\" in Belgium and \"Gänsereiten\" in Germany using a dead goose that has been humanely killed by a veterinarian.\n\nIn El Carpio de Tajo goose pulling is practised on every July 25th to celebrate the liberation (Reconquista) from the Arabs in 1141. Later, during the dictatorship of Franco, the use of live geese was prohibited by a new animal protection law. Instead of geese, ribbons tied to sticks were used, which the riders had to insert into metal rings. When democracy returned to Spain, the use of geese was again allowed. \n\nGoose pulling is attested in the Netherlands as early as the start of the 17th century; the poet Gerbrand Adriaensz Bredero referred to it in his 1622 poem \"Boerengeselschap\" (\"Company of Peasants\"), describing how a party of peasants going to a goose-pulling contest near Amsterdam end up in a brutal brawl, leading to the lesson that it is best for townspeople to stay away from peasant pleasures.\n\nAlthough the use of live geese was banned in the 1920s, the practice still arouses some controversy. In 2008 the Dutch Party for Animals (PvdD) proposed that it should be banned; the organisers, Folk Verein Gawstrèkkers Beeg, rejected the proposal, pointing out that there was no question of cruelty to animals because the geese were already dead.\n\nBelgian goose pulling is accompanied by an elaborate set of customs. The rider who succeeds in pulling off the goose's head is \"crowned\" as the \"king\" for one year and given a crown and mantle. At the end of his \"king year\" the ruling king has to treat his \"subjects\" to a feast of beer, drinks, cigars and bread pudding or sausages held either at his home or at a local pub. The kings compete with each other to become the \"emperor\". Children participate as well; in 2008, the children's goose pulling tournament in Lillo near Antwerp was won by a 14-year-old who won 390 euros and a trip to the Plopsaland theme park.\n\nIn Wattenscheid it is believed that the custom was brought by Spanish soldiers who were stationed in 1598 and 1599 during the Eighty Years' War and later in the Thirty Years' War.\n\nIn some other places of Germany it was forbidden. In Dortmund and Essen rattraps are used.\n\nThe sport appears to have been relatively uncommon in Britain, as all references are to it as a curiosity practiced somewhere else. The 1771 Philip Parsons locates it in \"Northern parts of England\" and assumes it is unknown in Newmarket in Southern England. Parsons described how it was carried out in England:\n\nIn a satirical letter to \"Punch\" in 1845 it is regarded as a barbarous practice known only to the bloodthirsty Spaniards, like bull-fighting. \n\nThe serious work \"Observations on the popular antiquities of Great Britain\", of 1849, calls it \"Goose-riding\" and says it has been \"practiced in Derbyshire within the memory of persons now living\", and that the antiquary Francis Douce (1757–1834) had a friend who remembered it \"when young\" in Edinburgh in Scotland. \n\nFrom these references it would appear to have died out in Britain by the end of the 18th century.\n\nThe Dutch settlers of North America brought it to their colony of New Netherland and from there it was transmitted to English-speaking Americans. Goose-pulling was taken up by those at the lower levels in American society, though it could attract the interest of all social strata. In the pre-Civil War South, slaves and whites competed alongside each other in goose-pulling contests watched by \"all who walk in the fashionable circles.\" Charles Grandison Parsons described the course of one such contest held in Milledgeville, Georgia in the 1850s:\n\nThe prizes of a goose-pulling contest were trivial – often the dead bird itself, other times contributions from the audience or rounds of drinks. The main draw of such contests for the spectators was the betting on the competitors, sometimes for money or more often for alcoholic drinks. One contemporary observer commented that \"the whoopin', and hollerin', and screamin', and bettin', and excitement, beats all; there ain't hardly no sport equal to it.\" Goose-pulling contests were often held on Shrove Tuesday and Easter Monday, with competitors \"engaged in this sport not just for its excitement but also to prove they were \"real men,\" physically strong, brave, competitive and willing to take risks.\"\n\nUnlike some other contemporary blood sports, goose pulling was often frowned upon. In New Amsterdam (modern New York) in 1656, Director General Pieter Stuyvesant issued ordinances against goose pulling, calling it \"unprofitable, heathenish and pernicious.\" Many contemporary writers professed disgust at the sport; an anonymous reviewer in the \"Southern Literary Messenger\", writing in 1836, described goose pulling as \"a piece of unprincipled barbarity not infrequently practised in the South and West.\" William Gilmore Simms described it as \"one of those sports which a cunning devil has contrived to gratify a human beast. It appeals to his skill, his agility, and strength; and is therefore in some degree grateful to his pride; but, as it exercises these qualities at the expense of his humanity, it is only a medium by which his better qualities are employed as agents for his worser nature.\"\n\nThe sport was challenging, as the oiling of the goose's neck made it difficult to retain a grip on it, and the bird's flailing made it difficult to target in the first place. Sometimes the organisers would add an extra element of difficulty; one writer describing an event in the American South witnessed \"a nigger, with a long whip in hand ... stationed on a stump, about two rods [10 m / 32 ft] from the gander, with orders to strike the horse of the puller as he passed by.\" The reaction of the startled horse would make it even more difficult for the puller to grab the goose as he went by. Many riders missed altogether; others broke the goose's neck without snapping off the head. The American poet and novelist William Gilmore Simms wrote that\n\nGoose-pulling largely died out in the United States after the Civil War, though it was still occasionally practised in parts of the South as late as the 1870s; a local newspaper in Osceola, Arkansas reported of an 1870s picnic that \"after eats, gander-pulling was engaged in. Mr. W.P. Hale succeeded in pulling in twain the gander's breathing apparatus, after which dancing was resumed.\"\n\nA variant called \"rooster pulling\" has survived in New Mexico for some time. A rooster was buried in the sand up to its neck, and riders would try to pull it up as they rode past. This was later done with bottles buried in the sand. \"Rooster racing in the Hispanic villages of northern New Mexico exists only in the history books and in the minds of a few men and women who ... still recall the popular sport of yesteryear\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53062836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53062836", "title": "Great Stockholm Fire of 1625", "text": "Great Stockholm Fire of 1625\n\nThe Great Stockholm Fire of 1625 was among the first known large scale fires in Stockholm prior to the city plan changes of the 17th-century. The fire began in the evening of September 1, 1625 in Kåkbrinken, and devastated the southwestern parts of Stadsholmen. It lasted three days and reportedly destroyed a fifth of the infrastructure of Stockholm at the time. The fire resulted in the building of a new city over the burnt areas, and a new tightened organisation of inspection of the fire prevention measures in the city. \n\n"}
{"id": "21555263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21555263", "title": "Grimeborn", "text": "Grimeborn\n\nGrimeborn is an annual East London musical theatre and opera festival which coincides with the world famous East Sussex Glyndebourne Opera Festival. Founded by Arcola Theatre’s artistic director Mehmet Ergen in 2007, the festival is held at Arcola Theatre in Dalston, East London. It takes place in and around August, and is considered a dynamic alternative to the traditional \"summer season\".\n\nThe festival's name is a punning reference to Glyndebourne, as it deliberately supports emerging performers and writers, rather than the polished, prestigious output of Glyndebourne. The \"grime\" comes from it having a \"dirtier\" backdrop in a converted textile factory in the congested bustle of Hackney as opposed to the scenic gardens of East Sussex. The festival showcases new and experimental works. Many see Grimeborn as the fashionable alternative to Glyndebourne, due to its E8 location.\n\nOriginally devised as a contemporary contribution to the Battersea Arts Centre's (BAC) Opera Festival. The BAC Opera Festival's Artistic Director at the time, Tom Morris, asked Ergen, who was working at the BAC as an Associate Producer, to create something different from normal operatic preconceptions, in a manner similar to that of the Tête à Tête opera company at the Riverside Studios who were also taking the stage at the BAC Opera Festival that year. Grimeborn is an opera and musical theatre festival in its own right, with the Arcola Theatre its exclusive host. The 2010 Grimeborn programme was curated by director and actor Andrew Steggall who also oversaw the festival's first outing in 2007. He considers the festival to be \"a testing ground for young opera and musical theatre practitioners\".\n\nCurated by Mehmet Ergen and produced by Leyla Nazli (21 August - 8 September)\n\n\nCurated by Andrew Steggall and produced by Leyla Nazli (9 August – 21 September)\n\nCurated by Alex Sutton and produced by Leyla Nazli (24 August – 5 September)\n\nCurated by Daniele Guerra and produced by Michael Harris and Leyla Nazli (4–23 August)\n\n\nCurated by Andrew Steggall and produced by Michael Harris and Leyla Nazli (19 August- 2 September)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23527575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23527575", "title": "Gumblar", "text": "Gumblar\n\nGumblar is a malicious JavaScript trojan horse file that redirects a user's Google searches, and then installs rogue security software. Also known as Troj/JSRedir-R this botnet first appeared in 2009. \n\nGumblar.X infections were widely seen on systems running older Windows operating systems. Visitors to an infected site will be redirected to an alternative site containing further malware. Initially, this alternative site was gumblar.cn, but it has since switched to a variety of domains. The site sends the visitor an infected PDF that is opened by the visitor's browser or Acrobat Reader. The PDF will then exploit a known vulnerability in Acrobat to gain access to the user's computer. Newer variations of Gumblar redirect users to sites running fake anti-virus software.\n\nThe virus will find FTP clients such as FileZilla and Dreamweaver and download the clients' stored passwords. Gumblar also enables promiscuous mode on the network card, allowing it to sniff local network traffic for FTP details. It is one of the first viruses to incorporate an automated network sniffer.\n\nUsing passwords obtained from site admins, the host site will access a website via FTP and infect that website. It will download large portions of the website and inject malicious code into the website's files before uploading the files back onto the server. The code is inserted in any file that contains a <body> tag, such as HTML, PHP, JavaScript, ASP and ASPx files. The inserted PHP code contains base64-encoded JavaScript that will infect computers that execute the code. In addition, some pages may have inline frames inserted into them. Typically, iframe code contains hidden links to malicious websites.\n\nThe virus will also modify .htaccess and HOSTS files, and create images.php files in directories named 'images'. The infection is not a server-wide exploit. It will only infect sites on the server that it has passwords to.\n\nDifferent companies use different names for Gumblar and variants. Initially, the malware was connecting to gumblar.cn domain but this server was shut down in May 2009. However, many badware variants have emerged after that and they connect to other malicious servers via iframe code.\n\nGumblar resurfaced in January 2010, stealing FTP usernames and passwords and infecting HTML, PHP and JavaScript files on webservers to help spread itself. This time it used multiple domains, making it harder to detect/stop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2794117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2794117", "title": "History of the Big Bang theory", "text": "History of the Big Bang theory\n\nThe began with the Big Bang's development from observations and theoretical considerations. Much of the theoretical work in cosmology now involves extensions and refinements to the basic Big Bang model.\n\nIn medieval philosophy, there was much debate over whether the universe had a finite or infinite past (see Temporal finitism). The philosophy of Aristotle held that the universe had an infinite past, which caused problems for medieval Jewish and Islamic philosophers who were unable to reconcile the Aristotelian conception of the eternal with the Abrahamic view of creation. As a result, a variety of logical arguments for the universe having a finite past were developed by John Philoponus, Al-Kindi, Saadia Gaon, Al-Ghazali and Immanuel Kant, among others.\n\nIn his 1225 treatise \"De Luce\" (\"On Light\"), English theologian Robert Grosseteste explored the nature of matter and the cosmos. He described the birth of the universe in an explosion and the crystallization of matter to form stars and planets in a set of nested spheres around Earth. \"De Luce\" is the first attempt to describe the heavens and Earth using a single set of physical laws.\n\nIn 1610, Johannes Kepler used the dark night sky to argue for a finite universe. Seventy-seven years later, Isaac Newton described large-scale motion throughout the universe.\n\nThe description of a universe that expanded and contracted in a cyclic manner was first put forward in a poem published in 1791 by Erasmus Darwin. Edgar Allan Poe presented a similar cyclic system in his 1848 essay titled \"\"; it is obviously not a scientific work, but Poe, while starting from metaphysical principles, tried to explain the universe using contemporary physical and mental knowledge. Ignored by the scientific community and often misunderstood by literary critics, its scientific implications have been reevaluated in recent times.\n\nAccording to Poe, the initial state of matter was a single \"Primordial Particle\". \"Divine Volition\", manifesting itself as a repulsive force, fragmented the Primordial Particle into atoms. Atoms spread evenly throughout space, until the repulsive force stops, and attraction appears as a reaction: then matter begins to clump together forming stars and star systems, while the material universe is drawn back together by gravity, finally collapsing and ending eventually returning to the Primordial Particle stage in order to begin the process of repulsion and attraction once again. This part of Eureka describes a Newtonian evolving universe which shares a number of properties with relativistic models, and for this reason Poe anticipates some themes of modern cosmology.\nObservationally, in the 1910s, Vesto Slipher and later, Carl Wilhelm Wirtz, determined that most spiral nebulae (now correctly called spiral galaxies) were receding from Earth. Slipher used spectroscopy to investigate the rotation periods of planets, the composition of planetary atmospheres, and was the first to observe the radial velocities of galaxies. Wirtz observed a systematic redshift of nebulae, which was difficult to interpret in terms of a cosmology in which the universe is filled more or less uniformly with stars and nebulae. They weren't aware of the cosmological implications, nor that the supposed nebulae were actually galaxies outside our own Milky Way. \n\nAlso in that decade, Albert Einstein's theory of general relativity was found to admit no static cosmological solutions, given the basic assumptions of cosmology described in the Big Bang's theoretical underpinnings. The universe (i.e., the space-time metric) was described by a metric tensor that was either expanding or shrinking (i.e., was not constant or invariant). This result, coming from an evaluation of the field equations of the general theory, at first led Einstein himself to consider that his formulation of the field equations of the general theory may be in error, and he tried to correct it by adding a cosmological constant. This constant would restore to the general theory's description of space-time an invariant metric tensor for the fabric of space/existence. The first person to seriously apply general relativity to cosmology without the stabilizing cosmological constant was Alexander Friedmann. Friedmann derived the expanding-universe solution to general relativity field equations in 1922. Friedmann's 1924 papers included \"\"Über die Möglichkeit einer Welt mit konstanter negativer Krümmung des Raumes\" (\"About the possibility of a world with constant negative curvature\") which was published by the Berlin Academy of Sciences on 7 January 1924. Friedmann's equations describe the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker universe.\n\nIn 1927, the Belgian Catholic priest Georges Lemaître proposed an expanding model for the universe to explain the observed redshifts of spiral nebulae, and calculated the Hubble law. He based his theory on the work of Einstein and De Sitter, and independently derived Friedmann's equations for an expanding universe. Also, the red shifts themselves were not constant, but varied in such manner as to lead to the conclusion that there was a definite relationship between amount of red-shift of nebulae, and their distance from observers.\n\nIn 1929, Edwin Hubble provided a comprehensive observational foundation for Lemaître's theory. Hubble's experimental observations discovered that, relative to the Earth and all other observed bodies, galaxies are receding in every direction at velocities (calculated from their observed red-shifts) directly proportional to their distance from the Earth and each other. In 1929, Hubble and Milton Humason formulated the empirical Redshift Distance Law of galaxies, nowadays known as Hubble's law, which, once the redshift is interpreted as a measure of recession speed, is consistent with the solutions of Einstein's General Relativity Equations for a homogeneous, isotropic expanding space. The isotropic nature of the expansion was direct proof that it was the space (the fabric of existence) itself that was expanding, not the bodies in space that were simply moving further outward and apart into an infinitely larger preexisting empty void. It was this interpretation that led to the concept of the expanding universe. The law states that the greater the distance between any two galaxies, the greater their relative speed of separation. This discovery later resulted in the formulation of the Big Bang model.\n\nIn 1931, Lemaître proposed in his \"hypothèse de l'atome primitif\"\" (hypothesis of the primeval atom) that the universe began with the \"explosion\" of the \"primeval atom\" — what was later called the Big Bang. Lemaître first took cosmic rays to be the remnants of the event, although it is now known that they originate within the local galaxy. Lemaître had to wait until shortly before his death to learn of the discovery of cosmic microwave background radiation, the remnant radiation of a dense and hot phase in the early universe.\n\nHubble's Law suggested that the universe was expanding, contradicting the cosmological principle whereby the universe, when viewed on sufficiently large distance scales, has no preferred directions or preferred places. Hubble's idea allowed for two opposing hypotheses to be suggested. One was Lemaître's Big Bang, advocated and developed by George Gamow. The other model was Fred Hoyle's Steady State theory, in which new matter would be created as the galaxies moved away from each other. In this model, the universe is roughly the same at any point in time. It was actually Hoyle who coined the name of Lemaître's theory, referring to it as \"this 'big bang' idea\" during a radio broadcast on 28 March 1949, on the BBC Third Programme. It is popularly reported that Hoyle, who favored an alternative \"steady state\" cosmological model, intended this to be pejorative, but Hoyle explicitly denied this and said it was just a striking image meant to highlight the difference between the two models.\nHoyle repeated the term in further broadcasts in early 1950, as part of a series of five lectures entitled \"The Nature of The Universe\". The text of each lecture was published in \"The Listener\" a week after the broadcast, the first time that the term \"big bang\" appeared in print. As evidence in favour of the Big Bang model mounted, and the consensus became widespread, Hoyle himself, albeit somewhat reluctantly, admitted to it by formulating a new cosmological model that other scientists later referred to as the \"Steady Bang\".\n\nFrom around 1950 to 1965, the support for these theories was evenly divided, with a slight imbalance arising from the fact that the Big Bang theory could explain both the formation and the observed abundances of hydrogen and helium, whereas the Steady State could explain how they were formed, but not why they should have the observed abundances. However, the observational evidence began to support the idea that the universe evolved from a hot dense state. Objects such as quasars and radio galaxies were observed to be much more common at large distances (therefore in the distant past) than in the nearby universe, whereas the Steady State predicted that the average properties of the universe should be unchanging with time. In addition, the discovery of the cosmic microwave background radiation in 1964 was considered the death knell of the Steady State, although this prediction was only qualitative, and failed to predict the exact temperature of the CMB. (The key big bang prediction is the black-body spectrum of the CMB, which was not measured with high accuracy until COBE in 1990). After some reformulation, the Big Bang has been regarded as the best theory of the origin and evolution of the cosmos. Before the late 1960s, many cosmologists thought the infinitely dense and physically paradoxical singularity at the starting time of Friedmann's cosmological model could be avoided by allowing for a universe which was contracting before entering the hot dense state, and starting to expand again. This was formalized as Richard Tolman's oscillating universe. In the sixties, Stephen Hawking and others demonstrated that this idea was unworkable, and the singularity is an essential feature of the physics described by Einstein's gravity. This led the majority of cosmologists to accept the notion that the universe as currently described by the physics of general relativity has a finite age. However, due to a lack of a theory of quantum gravity, there is no way to say whether the singularity is an actual origin point for the universe, or whether the physical processes that govern the regime cause the universe to be effectively eternal in character.\n\nThrough the 1970s and 1980s, most cosmologists accepted the Big Bang, but several puzzles remained, including the non-discovery of anisotropies in the CMB, and occasional observations hinting at deviations from a black-body spectrum; thus the theory was not very strongly confirmed.\n\nHuge advances in Big Bang cosmology were made in the 1990s and the early 21st century, as a result of major advances in telescope technology in combination with large amounts of satellite data, such as COBE, the Hubble Space Telescope and WMAP. \n\nIn 1990, measurements from the COBE satellite showed that the spectrum of the CMB matches a 2.725 K black-body to very high precision; deviations do not exceed 2 parts in . This showed that earlier claims of spectral deviations were incorrect, and essentially proved that the universe was hot and dense in the past, since no other known mechanism can produce a black-body to such high accuracy. Further observations from COBE in 1992 discovered the very small anisotropies of the CMB on large scales, approximately as predicted from Big Bang models with dark matter. From then on, models of non-standard cosmology without some form of Big Bang became very rare in the mainstream astronomy journals.\n\nIn 1998, measurements of distant supernovae indicated that the expansion of the universe is accelerating, and this was supported by other observations including ground-based CMB observations and large galaxy redshift surveys. In 1999-2000, the BOOMERanG and Maxima balloon-borne\nCMB observations showed that the geometry of the universe is close to flat, then in 2001 the\n2dFGRS galaxy redshift survey estimated the mean matter density around 25-30 percent of critical density. \nFrom 2003 to 2010, NASA's WMAP spacecraft took very detailed pictures of the universe by means of the cosmic microwave background radiation. The images can be interpreted to indicate that the universe is 13.7 billion years old (within one percent error) and that the Lambda-CDM model and the inflationary theory are correct. No other cosmological theory can yet explain such a wide range of observed parameters, from the ratio of the elemental abundances in the early universe to the structure of the cosmic microwave background, the observed higher abundance of active galactic nuclei in the early universe and the observed masses of clusters of galaxies.\n\nIn 2013 and 2015, ESA's Planck spacecraft released even more detailed images of the cosmic microwave background, showing consistency with the Lambda-CDM model to still higher precision. \n\nMuch of the current work in cosmology includes understanding how galaxies form in the context of the Big Bang, understanding what happened in the earliest times after the Big Bang, and reconciling observations with the basic theory. Cosmologists continue to calculate many of the parameters of the Big Bang to a new level of precision, and carry out more detailed observations which are hoped to provide clues to the nature of dark energy and dark matter, and to test the theory of General Relativity on cosmic scales.\n\n"}
{"id": "28539287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28539287", "title": "Kakao M", "text": "Kakao M\n\nKakao M (; formerly Seoul Records, YBM Seoul Records and LOEN Entertainment) is a South Korean entertainment company established by Min Yeong-bin in 1978. It is currently one of the largest co-publisher companies in South Korea. The company operates as a record label, talent agency, music production company, event management, concert production company and music publishing house.\n\n, the company was the leading record company in South Korea by net revenue according to the statistics compiled by the Korea Music Content Industry Association (KMCIA) through the Gaon Music Chart (30.4%); it is also the second leading company in terms of album sales (25.4%). Since January 2016, Kakao M has been a subsidiary of Kakao.\n\nOnline music sales account for most of the company's profit, with 93.9% of revenue coming from online music sales. The label also distributes CDs of some other entertainment agencies in South Korea through its branch LOEN Music, but makes less than 5% of its revenue through them.\n\n, the company's chief executive officer is Lee Jae-wook.\n\nKakao M was founded as Seoul Records in 1978 by Min Yeong-bin as a subsidiary of YBM Sisa, a company mainly involved in creating language-learning tapes. The company was officially registered in 1982, and in 1984 it began to produce and distribute records of classical and traditional music. It was registered as a venture capital company in 1999 when it began to sell albums while operating an online shop. In 2000, the company's name was changed to YBM Seoul Records and it began to operate on KOSDAQ. The company joined the IFPI in 2003. Korean conglomerate SK Telecom bought a 60% share of the company in 2005, and YBM Seoul Records subsequently became part of SK Group.\n\nAs of 2008, the company has been known as LOEN Entertainment. LOEN stands for: Live On Entertainment Networks and\nLOve + ENtertainment\n\nKakao M took charge of SK Telecom's online music distribution service, MelOn, in 2009. MelOn is currently the most used online music sales site in South Korea.\n\nIn 2012, the company signed a deal with streaming site Viki so that content from their artists (such as IU, Brown Eyed Girls and Drunken Tiger) would be featured on their site.\n\nIn August 2012, the recording artists under Kakao M collaborated to release a collaborative EP titled \"LOEN Tree Summer Story\" under the collective title 'LOEN Tree'.\n\nOn July 18, 2013, Affinity Equity Partners, through its subsidiary Star Invest Holdings Ltd., bought 52.56% of Kakao M's shares, leaving SK Group with only 15%. Five months later, Star Invest Holdings acquired RealNetworks, Inc.'s 8.83% stake in the company. The company was reorganized to include two labels: \"LOEN Tree\" (Jo Yeong-cheol) and \"Collabodadi\" (Shinsadong Tiger).\n\nOn December 18, 2013, Kakao M acquired 70% of shares in Starship Entertainment, making it as an independent subsidiary of the company.\n\nOn January 11, 2016, Kakao M was acquired by Kakao Corporation.\n\nOn May 11, 2017, Kakao M announced its strategic drama production alliance with CJ E&M's drama production subsidiary Studio Dragon Corporation. Among the plans under the alliance is producing dramas based on web novels and webtoons on KakaoPage and Daum Webtoons (which copyrights are managed by \"Podotree\", the web literature subsidiary of Kakao). (Kakao M first entered the drama production industry three years ago through the cable-web drama \"Another Parting\", which starred Seo In-guk and Wang Ji-won.) On August 25, Kakao M announced that its joint venture with Studio Dragon will be called as Mega Monster. \n\nThe company has also signed actress Kim So-hyun through setting up her own independent label, E&T Story Entertainment, which is led by her long-time manager Park Chan-woo.\n\nUpon approval by the company's board of directors in a December 20 meeting, the company is known as Kakao M Corporation () since March 23, 2018. The letter M in the new corporate name stands for three things: Melon (the company's flagship online music service), Music (the company's core business) and Media (another business that the company will advance to in the future). The company will now also have a corporate catchphrase, \"We Entertain\".\n\nBarely a month before the company's relaunch under its new name, Sean Seong-hoon Park resigned from both his positions as CEO of the company and chief strategy officer of its parent company, and later moved to Netmarble Games. He was replaced by Melon division head Lee Jae-wook.\n\nThe company name is Kakao M, the letter \"M\" stands for:\n\n, Kakao M currently uses two types of catalog number codes for its releases: the L10000**** series (now at the -5000 suffix) and the L20000**** series (now at the -1000 suffix).\n\n2011<br>\nKakao M, along with then-parent SK Telecom, was one of the 15 companies fined and sued by the Korean FTC for price rigging in 2011. The company was fined $9.6 million for its role in the scheme.\n\n2016<br>\nOn October 9, 2016, the Supreme Court of South Korea handed out a 100 million won fine each to Kakao M and its closest competitor Genie Music (then known as KT Music) for colluding in price fixing, dating back to a case filed in 2008. Co-CEO Shin Won-soo, who was the sole CEO at the time being, was also sentenced to pay 10 million won.\n\nIn 2013, Kakao M made a deal with C-JeS Entertainment to promote and distribute Junsu's second studio album \"Incredible\". Days before the album's release, C-Jes was reportedly notified by Kakao M that they would distribute the album but had scrapped plans for promotional marketing and broadcasting Junsu's upcoming showcase on MelOn, although they would be able to broadcast it on LOEN TV. Promotional banners regarding the album's release on MelOn also disappeared from Kakao M's social media accounts. C-JeS subsequently threatened to remove mentions of Kakao M from Junsu's upcoming showcase and to file for a civil appeal to the Fair Trade Commission and Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission.\n\nIn response, Kakao M stated that they were still in discussions regarding the album's promotion and that nothing had been confirmed prior to the relevant article's release. They pointed to the showcase event page on MelOn's homepage still being up as evidence that promotions were going ahead as planned. C-JeS responded saying that they had begun receiving pre-orders for the album and entries for the showcase event without a response from Kakao M.\n\nFollowing media attention, the two companies met on July 8 and resolved the dispute. \"Incredible\" was promoted and distributed by Kakao M as planned.\n\nKakao M has three company, which the concept calls as \"company in company\" (CIC). The company also plans to set up another one in the future.\n\nMelon Company () is Kakao M's online music service company, operating Melon (short for \"melody on\"), the most popular music service in Korea, with 59% of all users in South Korea . That year Soompi ranked MelOn as the third most influential entity in the K-pop industry.\n\nMusic Content Company () is Kakao M's music content production company, which includes the music content brand 1theK (which was known as LOEN Music before February 2014), ticket selling portal Melon Ticket and distributes over 300 titles per year, working with independent agencies to invest in music production. The name '1theK' indicates its aim of creating one source for worldwide K-pop content.\n\nKakao M manages its artists within the companies under its Music Content Company, including LOEN Tree (2012) and Collabodadi (2014). Collabodadi artists were moved to LOEN Tree in September 2015 and later LOEN Tree renamed as Fave Entertainment in February 2017.\n\nIn 2015, Kakao M acquired independent label Starship Entertainment and Cube Entertainment subsidiaries label A Cube Entertainment (which later was renamed Plan A Entertainment), as well as King Kong Entertainment acquired by Starship in 2015.\n\nIn June 2016, Kakao M established an independent label Mun Hwa In.\n\nIn December 2017, Kakao M established an one-person agency E&T Story Entertainment for actress Kim So-hyun, which is led by her long-time manager Park Chan-woo. As January 2018, Kakao M's independent label Plan A Entertainment takes over the agency.\n\nVideo Content Company () is Kakao M's media production company, which includes Krispy Studio (a web content production company) and Mega Monster (formerly Story Plant, a drama production company that Kakao M co-owns with CJ E&M subsidiary Studio Dragon Corporation).\n\nJust almost a week after its name change, Kakao M (through Krispy Studio) acquired a majority (65.7%) stake in Nylon Media Korea, publisher of the Korean edition of beauty and fashion magazine \"Nylon\", from .\n\nOn April 2018, Kakao M and its parent company formed the CSR venture Kakao Impact Foundation.\n\n, the following companies are the subsidiaries of Kakao M:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12965439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12965439", "title": "Karlsruhe Congress", "text": "Karlsruhe Congress\n\nThe Karlsruhe Congress was an international meeting of chemists held in Karlsruhe, Germany from 3 to 5 September 1860. It was the first international conference of chemistry worldwide.\n\nThe Karlsruhe Congress was called so that European chemists could discuss matters of chemical nomenclature, notation, and atomic weights. The organization, invitation, and sponsorship of the conference were handled by August Kekulé, Adolphe Wurtz, and Karl Weltzien. As an example of the problems facing the delegates, Kekulé's \"Lehrbuch der Organischen Chemie\" gave nineteen different formulas used by chemists for acetic acid, as shown in the figure on this page.\n\nThe Karlsruhe meeting ended with no firm agreement on the vexing problem of atomic and molecular weights. However, on the meeting's last day reprints of Stanislao Cannizzaro's 1858 paper on atomic weights, in which he utilized earlier work by Amedeo Avogadro, were distributed. Cannizzaro's efforts exerted a heavy and, in some cases, an almost immediate influence on the delegates. Lothar Meyer later wrote that on reading Cannizzaro's paper, \"The scales seemed to fall from my eyes.\"\n\nAn important long-term result of the Karlsruhe Congress was the adoption of the now-familiar atomic weights. Prior to the Karlsruhe meeting, and going back to Dalton's work in 1803, several systems of atomic weights were in use. In one case, a value of 1 was adopted as the weight of hydrogen (the base unit), with 6 for carbon and 8 for oxygen. As long as there were uncertainties over atomic weights then the compositions of many compounds remained in doubt. Following the Karlsruhe meeting, values of about 1 for hydrogen, 12 for carbon, 16 for oxygen, and so forth were adopted. This was based on a recognition that certain elements, such as hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, were composed of diatomic molecules and not individual atoms.\n\nIhde has argued that the Karlsruhe meeting was the first international meeting of chemists and that it led to the eventual founding of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC).\n\nAccording to Wurtz's list, the congress was attended by the scientists listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57437795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57437795", "title": "List of association football leagues without promotion and relegation", "text": "List of association football leagues without promotion and relegation\n\nThe following is a list of association football leagues which do not or did not have a promotion and relegation process.\n\nLeagues within the scope of this list are:\n\n\nExcluded are:\n"}
{"id": "288586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=288586", "title": "Lunar New Year", "text": "Lunar New Year\n\nLunar New Year is the beginning of a year whose months are coordinated by the cycles of the moon. The whole year may account to a purely lunar calendar or a lunisolar calendar.\n\nThe following East Asian Lunar New Year celebrations are, or were historically, based on the traditional Chinese lunisolar calendar (occurring in late January or early February):\n\nThese South Asian traditional lunisolar celebrations are observed according to the local lunisolar calendars. They are influenced by Indian tradition, which marks the solar new year on the sun's entry into Aries in April. \n\nThese South and Southeast Asian New Year celebrations have dates based on the solar cycle (\"solar new year\"), but are part of the local lunisolar calendar system or were historically observed according to the local lunisolar calendars, and thus do not generally align with the first day of the lunisolar year. They are influenced by Indian (\"Indic\") tradition (occurring on 13/14 April):\n\nLunar New Year celebrations that originated in Western Asia fall on other days:\n\n"}
{"id": "41830949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41830949", "title": "Open Engagement", "text": "Open Engagement\n\nOpen Engagement is an international conference and artist project focusing on art and social practice. Directed and founded by Jen Delos Reyes in 2007, the conference incorporates workshops, exhibitions, residencies, pedagogy, curatorial practice and collaborative projects.\n\nThe conference is free of charge and has hosted over 700 presenters, taking place in two countries over the past seven years. Since the first Open Engagement conference in 2007, the event has become a locus for people interested in socially engaged art. The conference offers a primary site where practitioners convene annually to take stock of the field, playing host to artists and activists.\n\n2007\nThe initial conference, born out of Delos Reyes' graduate studies at the University of Regina, was hosted by the University, the Dunlop Art Gallery, The Mackenzie Art Gallery and local Regina residents from October 11–13, 2007. Each of the three days focused on a unique theme of exploration; October 11, You are all that I see: Art and everyday experience; October 12, It takes two: Collaborations, collectives, other team relationships; October 13. I’ll call you: Long-term relationships, communities, and connectivity. Over 40 national and international contributors were present during this first conference. The contributors were selected through an open call for submissions, participating alongside three keynote presenters.\n\n2010\nIn 2010 Open Engagement moved to Portland State University, planned in conjunction with the Art and Social Practice students, continuing under the leadership of Delos Reyes. The artists involved in Open Engagement: Making Things, Making Things Better, Making Things Worse, challenged traditional ideas of what art is and does. The artists' projects mediated the contemporary frameworks of art as service, as social space, as activism, as interactions, and as relationships.\nOver 150 presenters were accepted through an open call for submissionS. Featured keynote presenters were Mark Dion, Nils Norman, and Amy Franceschini.\n\n2011\nOpen Engagement 2011 explored broadly art and social practice. Through conversations, interviews, open reflection on experiences, and related projects created for or presented at the conference, five themes were examined: Peoples and Publics, Social Economies, In Between Places, Tracking and Tracing, and Sentiment and Strategies. 2011’s keynote presenters were Julie Ault, Fritz Haeg, and Pablo Helguera.\n\nIn 2011 Open Engagement also played host to the Bureau for Open Culture, Bad at Sports, an exhibition by the Bruce High Quality Foundation University, and concurrent summits on art and\neducation and social practice/participatory programs and practices arising at museums. The summits featured representatives from Otis College of Art and Design, the University of California Santa Cruz, MICA, California College of the Arts, The Walker, Portland Art Museum, The Hammer and others.\n\n2012\nThe 2012 Open Engagement featured presentations from keynote speakers Tania Bruguera, Shannon Jackson and Paul Ramirez Jonas. The work by these artists and scholars informed\nthe conference themes: Politics, Economies, Education, and Representation.\n\n2013\nOpen Engagement 2013 featured keynote presenters Claire Doherty, Tom Finkelpearl, and\nMichael Rakowitz. They were brought together to reflect on the themes of publics, contexts, and institutions in relation to the current state of socially engaged art, education, and institutional practice.\n\nThe conference included dozens of panels, workshops, and lectures, as well as a continuation of the socially engaged art in art institutions summit as well as a public conversation with Creative Time on the roles of the Creative Time Summit and Open Engagement.\n\n2014\nOpen Engagement 2014 featured keynote presenters J. Morgan Puett and Mierle Laderman Ukeles. These and other artists, scholars and conference participants reflected on the theme of Life/Work. In 2014 the conference became mobile and was hosted by Queens Museum in the borough of Queens, New York City. \n\n2015\nIn 2015, Open Engagement moved to Pittsburgh to explore the themes of place and revolution. A Blade of Grass was the year's organizational partner and the conference featured keynote presentations by Emily Jacir and Rick Lowe.\n\n2016\nThe 2016 iteration of Open Engagement took place at the Oakland Museum of California. The 2016 conference theme, POWER, was guided by the curatorial vision of René de Guzman and featured keynote speakers Angela Davis and Suzanne Lacy.\n\n2017\nOpen Engagement 2017 took place at the University of Illinois at Chicago and a constellation of sites across the city. The conference theme JUSTICE was guided by the curatorial vision of Romi Crawford and Lisa Yun Lee. Featured presenters included Theaster Gates, Maria Gaspar, Maria Varela, Ai-jen Poo, Marisa Jahn and Laurie Jo Reynolds.\n"}
{"id": "1586944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586944", "title": "Paris La Défense – Une Ville En Concert", "text": "Paris La Défense – Une Ville En Concert\n\nParis La Défense – Une Ville En Concert was a concert held by musician Jean-Michel Jarre on the district of La Défense in Paris on Bastille Day, July 14, 1990. About 2.5 million people standing in front of the pyramidal stage all the way down to the Arc de Triomphe witnessed this event, setting a new \"Guinness Book of Records\" entry for Jarre. The concert was funded by the Mairie de Paris, the Ministry of Culture and a small cluster of high-profile Parisian business concerns. Later, a concert video as well as a photobook of the event were released.\n\nThe show featured new tracks from the Waiting for Cousteau album, and vast grotesque marionettes created by Trinidadian Peter Minshall. A VHS cassette of the concert was released in 1992.\n\nSongs marked (*) are omitted from the official video release.\n\n"}
{"id": "47678053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47678053", "title": "Point of view (philosophy)", "text": "Point of view (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, a point of view is a specified or stated manner of consideration, an attitude how one sees or thinks of something, as in \"from my personal point of view\". This figurative usage of the expression as attested since 1760. In this meaning, the usage is synonymous with one of the meanings of the term perspective.\n\nMargarita Vázquez Campos and Antonio Manuel Liz Gutiérrez in their work, \"The Notion of Point of View\", give a comprehensive analysis of the structure of the concept. They point out that despite being crucial in many discourses, the notion has not been adequately analyzed, though some important works do exist. They mention that early classical Greek philosophers, starting from Parmenides and Heraclitus discussed the relation between \"appearance\" and reality, i.e., how our points of view are connected with reality. They specifically point out Ludwig Wittgenstein's \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\". They consider Wittgenstein's theory of \"pictures\" or \"models\" (Wittgenstein used the German word \"Bild\", which means both \"picture\" and \"model\") as an illustration of the relationship between points of view and reality.\n\nThe concept of the \"point of view\" is highly multifunctional and ambiguous. Many things may be judged from certain personal, traditional or moral points of view (as in \"the beauty is in the eye of the beholder\"). Our knowledge about reality is often relative to a certain point of view.\n\nVázquez Campos and Manuel Liz Gutierrez suggested to analyse the concept of \"point of view\" using two approaches: one based on the concept of \"propositional attitudes\", the other on the concepts of \"location\" and \"access\".\n\nThe internal structure of a point of view may be analysed similarly to the concept of a propositional attitude. A propositional attitude is an attitude, i.e., a mental state held by an agent toward a proposition. Examples of such attitudes are \"to believe in something\", \"to desire something\", \"to guess something\", \"to remember something\", etc. Vazques Campos and Gutierrez suggest that points of view may be analyzed as structured sets of propositional attitudes. The authors draw on Christopher Peacocke's \"Sense and Content\".\n\nWithin this approach one may carry out ontological classification of various distinctions, such as individual vs. collective points of view, personal vs. non-personal, non-conceptual vs. conceptual, etc.\n\nWhereas propositional attitudes approach is to analyze points of view internally, the \"location/access\" approach analyzes points of view externally, by their role. The term \"access\" refers to the statement of Liz Gutierrez that \"points of views, or perspectives, are ways of having access to the world and to ourselves\", and the term \"location\" is in reference to the provided quotation of Jon Moline that points of view are \"ways of viewing things and events from certain locations\". Moline rejects the notion that points of view are reducible to some rules based on some theories, maxims or dogmas. Moline considers the concept of \"location\" in two ways: in a direct way as a vantage point, and in an extended way, the way how a given vantage point provides a perspective, i.e., influences the perception.\n\nThis approach may address epistemological issues, such as relativism, existence of the absolute point of view, compatibility of points of view (including \"faultless disagreement\"), possibility of a point of view without a bearer, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4179836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4179836", "title": "Pōwhiri", "text": "Pōwhiri\n\nA pōwhiri (called a pōhiri in eastern dialects, and pronounced pōwiri in the Taranaki-Wanganui area) is a Māori welcoming ceremony involving speeches, dancing, singing and finally the \"hongi\". It is used to both welcome guests onto a marae or during other ceremonies, such as during a dedication of a building (where the owners or future users of the building might be welcomed). A pōwhiri may not be performed for every group of manuhiri (visitors); a \"mihi whakatau\" (\"informal greeting to visitors\") may be used instead. Pōwhiri is often used for special visitors or for \"tūpāpaku\" (the body of the deceased) for a tangihanga (funeral). However, pōwhiri are also often performed for tourist groups as part of special events.\n\nFor most non-Māori speakers the \"wero\", an aggressive challenge of the visitor at the beginning of the ceremony, is the most spectacular part of the pōwhiri. During this part of the ceremony, three Māori warriors will advance cautiously towards the guests with ceremonial weapons and perform threatening gestures and grimaces, calling out battle screams and generally giving an impression of being ready to explode into violence against the visitors at any moment. The first warrior represents the realm of Tumatauenga, the Atua (God) of War. The third Warrior represents Rongo the Atua of Peace (Rangimarie). It is the final warrior who offers the rautapu, a signal that the manuhiri (guests) may enter the Marae-atea. Historically, it has roots in both showing off the martial prowess of the iwi's warriors, as well as testing the steadfastness of the visitors. By accepting the \"rautapu\", a leaf or carved effigy, that the lead warrior will place on the ground before the visitors as a symbolic offering of peace, this part of the ceremony is concluded. \nOn some occasions the pōwhiri begins before the karanga (the call), at other times it begins after the karanga has started\n\nAt some point, the karanga and the pōwhiri will be taking place at the same time. For the pōwhiri, the kaikaranga (female caller) usually stands to the side and slightly to the front of the remainder of the tangata whenua (hosts). Those who take part in the pōwhiri include elders and young people (men/women). After the manuhiri (guests) and tangata whenua are seated, both sides will have speakers usually beginning with the tangata whenua, and final speaker from the manuhiri will often present koha to the tangata whenua. It is usually placed on the ground by the final speaker from the manuhiri. Once the speaker is seated, someone from the tangata whenua will pick it up.\n\nThe ceremonial tapu is lifted when tangata whenua and manuhiri make physical contact with hongi or shaking hands.\n"}
{"id": "5109370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5109370", "title": "Sanhedrin trial of Jesus", "text": "Sanhedrin trial of Jesus\n\nIn the New Testament, the Sanhedrin trial of Jesus refers to the trial of Jesus before the Sanhedrin (a Jewish judicial body) following his arrest in Jerusalem and prior to his dispensation by Pontius Pilate. It is an event reported by all four canonical gospels of the New Testament, although John's Gospel does not explicitly mention a Sanhedrin trial in this context.\n\nJesus is generally quiet, does not mount a defense, and rarely responds to the accusations, but is condemned by the Jewish authorities when he will not deny that he is the Son of God. The Jewish leaders then take Jesus to Pontius Pilate, the governor of Roman Judaea, and ask that he be tried for claiming to be the King of the Jews.\n\nThe trial as depicted in the Synoptic Gospels is temporally placed informally on Thursday night and then again formally on Friday morning. Although some believe this informally happened Wednesday night and then again finally on Thursday morning, with him eventually being taken off the cross Thursday night, being the beginning of the Jews 'day of preparation', according to account in the Gospel of John.\n\nIn the narrative of all the canonical gospels, after the betrayal and arrest of Jesus, he is taken to the Sanhedrin. From a historical perspective, in the era in which the narrative is set, the Sanhedrin body was an \"ad hoc\" gathering, rather than a fixed court. The portrayal of the Sanhedrin body contradicts that of Jewish tradition and texts, which portray the Sanhedrin to be an established court based in Jerusalem with strict guidelines on how to function. An entire tractate explaining the Sanhedrin and its laws can be found in both the Mishna and Gemara. \n\nIn the four canonical gospels, Jesus was tried and condemned by a majority of the Sanhedrin members, although at least one member, Joseph of Arimathea, dissented from this decision. Jesus was mocked and beaten and condemned for making the claim of being the Son of God. Although the Gospel accounts vary with respect to some of the details, they agree on the general character and overall structure of the trials of Jesus.\n\nIn , however, Jesus is first taken to Annas, the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest at that time. Annas is believed to have been the former high priest, and it appears that Caiaphas sought Annas' confirmation of Caiaphas' actions. In , Jesus is sent from Annas to Caiaphas the high priest, and states that, in the morning, Jesus was led from Caiaphas to Pontius Pilate in the Praetorium.\n\nIn all four Gospel accounts, the trial of Jesus before the priests and scribes is interleaved with the Denial of Peter narrative, where Apostle Peter, who has followed Jesus, denies knowing him three times. states that as Jesus was bound and standing at the priest's house Peter was in the courtyard. Jesus \"turned and looked straight at him\", and Peter remembered the words Jesus had spoken to him: \"Before the rooster crows today, you will disown me three times.\"\n\nIn the Gospel accounts, Jesus speaks very little, and gives very infrequent and indirect answers to the questions of the priests, prompting an officer to slap him. In , the lack of response from Jesus prompts the high priest to ask him: \"Answerest thou nothing?\" In the Gospel accounts, the men that hold Jesus at the high priest's house mock, blindfold, insult and beat him, at times slapping him and asking him to guess who had hit him that time.\n\nIn , Jesus is asked: \"If thou art the Christ, tell us. But he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe\". But, in , when asked \"Are you then the Son of God?\", Jesus answers \"You say that I am\", affirming the title Son of God. At that point, the priests say \"What further need have we of witness? for we ourselves have heard from his own mouth\", and they decide to condemn Jesus.\n\nThereafter, in Pilate's Court, the Jewish elders ask Pontius Pilate to judge and condemn Jesus, accusing him of claiming to be the King of the Jews. Such a claim would be considered treasonous, being a direct challenge to the Roman authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27614061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27614061", "title": "Sayidaty", "text": "Sayidaty\n\nSayidaty (Arabic سيدتي \"Sayyidatī\", meaning \"My Lady\" in English) is a weekly Arabic and a monthly English women's magazine published in both Dubai and Beirut and distributed throughout the Middle East, North Africa, Europe and America.\n\n\"Sayidaty\" was founded by Hisham Hafiz and his brother Muhammed Hafiz in London. Later, it was founded in Riyadh in March 1981. The magazine was relocated from London to Dubai in 2005. The English edition was launched in 2007.\n\nHala Al Nasser, who is current editor-in-chief of \"Rotana Magazine\", is one of the magazine's former editors. Mohammed Fahad Al-Harthi has been the editor-in-chief of the magazine since 2004. As of 2010 Lebanese journalist Hadia Said was the cultural editor of the magazine.\n\n\"Sayidaty\" is one of the magazines published by Saudi Research and Publishing Company, a subsidiary of Saudi Research and Marketing Group (SRMG).\nSRMG also owns other magazines such as \"Al Jamila\", \"The Majalla\", \"Bassim\", \"Urdu Magazine\" and \"Hia\" as well as newspapers such as \"Arab News\", \"Al Eqtisadiah\", \"Urdu News\" and \"Asharq al Awsat\".\n\n\"Sayidaty\", the first and only Pan Arab women weekly, provides professional and quality reading, making it the most powerful advertising vehicle among women's magazine in Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf region. The magazine mostly covers a wide range of topics favoured by the modern Arab women, from beauty and fashion to social and family life.\n\nIn June 2013 it was expanded to cover two new sections: one on human behavior, and another for teenagers and college students.\n\nThe magazine is said to target primarily families, focusing on conscious housewives. \"Sayidaty\", along with \"Al Yamamah\" and \"The Majalla\", is among popular magazines in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe circulation of the magazine at the end of the 1990s was 140,000 copies per issue. In April 2014, its online version received 39 million hits according to the reports by the editor-in-chief.\n\nList of magazines in Saudi Arabia\n"}
{"id": "39107386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39107386", "title": "Show Me Shorts", "text": "Show Me Shorts\n\nShow Me Shorts is New Zealand's leading international short film festival. It screens a selection of short films from New Zealand and around the world in cinemas nationwide each Spring.\n\nShow Me Shorts is a charitable (not-for-profit) organisataion that has three aims:\n\n1. To connect New Zealanders with the best short films from around the world\n\n2. To celebrate excellence in short film making\n\n3. To foster the New Zealand short film community\n\nEach year approximately 50 top short films are selected and contend for awards. Both international and New Zealand films are eligible. The festival awards are then presented to the top filmmakers at the opening night and awards ceremony in Auckland.\n\nShow Me Shorts is New Zealand’s first Academy Awards®-accredited festival, with the Best Film and Best International Film award winners becoming eligible for nomination for the Oscars®.\n\nThe programme covers a diverse range of themes and subjects including documentary, sci-fi, horror, drama, animation and comedy. Judges from the local film industry decide the winners of the awards.\n\nAs of 2014, Show Me Shorts Film Festival also accepts music videos as part of a new New Zealand music video competitive category.\n\nThere are a number of supporting events such as a lab for screenwriters and filmmaker talks for aspiring filmmakers that run as part of the festival.\n\nShow Me Shorts Film Festival Trust is a registered charitable trust founded in Auckland, New Zealand in 2006 by Gina Dellabarca, Tamara Liebman, Katrin Hagen and Kate Nicholson.\n\nThe first screenings took place at Auckland's Academy Cinema in November, 2006. The following year the festival expanded to a full week in Auckland, plus screenings in Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. Every year since then, more locations and venues have been added to the circuit. There are now over 20 regular venues across New Zealand.\n\nIn 2013 Show Me Shorts gained Academy Awards-accreditation for their Best International Film Award. This milestone recognised the quality of the programming, and allowed the festival to provide a pathway to the Oscars for filmmakers. In 2016 the festival additionally acquired Academy Awards-accreditation for their Best International Film Award.\n\nIn 2014 the Opening Night and Awards Ceremony took place at the iconic picture palace, The Civic, in Auckland. This venue has since become a fixture for the festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44866979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44866979", "title": "Teatro delle Dame", "text": "Teatro delle Dame\n\nThe Teatro delle Dame, also known as the Teatro Alibert (its original name), was a theatre in Rome built in 1718 and located on what is now the corner of Via D'Alibert and Via Margutta. In the course of its history it underwent a series of reconstructions and renovations until it was definitively destroyed by a fire in 1863. In their 18th-century heyday, the Teatro delle Dame and its rival, the Teatro Capranica, were the leading opera houses in Rome and saw many world premieres performed by some of the most prominent singers of the time. \nThe theatre was built by Antonio D'Alibert for the performance of \"opera seria\". It was a project long planned by his father Jacques D'Alibert (1626–1713) who had been the secretary to Queen Christina of Sweden and had managed the Teatro Tordinona. The Teatro Tordinona was Rome's first public theatre but was demolished in 1697 on the orders of Pope Innocent XII who considered public theatres a corrupting influence on the populace. \n\nThe Teatro Alibert (as it was then called) was constructed in wood on a piece of land formerly used for playing pallacorda (a game similar to real tennis). According to the Italian theatre historian Saverio Franchi, the architect supervising the construction was probably Matteo Sassi (1646–1723). When it was inaugurated in 1718 with the premiere of Francesco Mancini's opera \"Alessandro Severo\", the Teatro Alibert was the largest theatre in Rome with seven tiers of 32 boxes each. In 1720 Francesco Galli Bibiena enlarged and redesigned the interior, reshaping the auditorium into a \"phonetic curve\" (midway between a rectangle and a horseshoe).\n\nThe theatre was an artistic success but not a financial one. Matters were not helped by the Jubilee Year of 1725 when all Roman theatres were closed for the duration. Antonio D'Alibert went bankrupt and the Roman authorities put the theatre up for auction in 1726. It was bought by a consortium of Roman nobility and renamed the Teatro delle Dame. The theatre's management eventually passed to the Knights of Malta, with whom some members of the consortium had close links. The order was to maintain control of the theatre until well into the 19th century. In the mid-1730s, the building underwent extensive renovation and embellishment designed by the architect Ferdinando Fuga and reopened in 1738 with a performance of Nicola Logroscino's opera \"Quinto Fabio\". \n\nBy the 19th century, the Teatro delle Dame (like its rival the Teatro Capranica) had ceased being a leading opera house in the city. Operas were still performed there, but it was increasingly used for public balls, acrobatic shows, and plays written in the local Roman dialect. Prince Alessandro Torlonia acquired the theatre in 1847 and had it reconstructed in brick with an even larger stage which could accommodate equestrian shows. On the night of 15 February 1863, the theatre caught fire yet again and was completely destroyed. Later, an inn known as the Locanda Alibert was constructed on the site. In the early 2000s the Locanda Alibert building was completely restructured and turned into a congress and event centre.\n\nThroughout most of the 18th century, women were forbidden to perform on stage in the Papal States. During that period operas were sung at the Teatro delle Dame by all-male casts with castrati singing the female roles. Amongst the famous castrato singers to appear there were Farinelli, Giacinto Fontana (\"Farfallino\"), Giovanni Carestini, and Luigi Marchesi. From 1798 when Rome came under French rule, women began appearing on the theatre's stage—the first one was the soprano Teresa Bertinotti. \n\nOperas which received their world premieres at the theatre include:\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "36466312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36466312", "title": "The Diary of Anne Frank (radio play)", "text": "The Diary of Anne Frank (radio play)\n\nAnne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl is an original radio play by author Meyer Levin (1905–1981). It was adapted from Levin’s original stage dramatization of the same name, adapted from \"The Diary of a Young Girl\", Anne Frank's diary. It aired on CBS on September 18, 1952, the eve of Rosh Hashanah, to critical acclaim, and again in November 1952.\n\nAuthor Meyer Levin was born in 1905 to Jewish immigrants in Chicago. He began a journalism career at the age of 16 when he started reporting for the \"Chicago Daily News\". In 1943 Levin was based in London as a war correspondent. He followed the stories of American Jewish soldiers and Germany’s genocidal campaign. Levin was one of the first American journalists to enter a work camp, Ohrdruf, then Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, and more. He suffered tremendous guilt as witness to the atrocities and wrote of his inability to tell the story of the Jews of Europe. That changed when he encountered \"The Diary of Anne Frank\", the first personal diary to emerge from the war. Levin wrote to Otto Frank and met with him before leaving Europe, inquiring into the American publication and dramatic rights. He was the first to see the dramatic potential of the Diary.\nProducer Jennifer Strome discovered the Radio Play script in 1999 while researching Levin’s life story. She met a member of Levin’s family and was captivated by Levin’s history with the \"Diary of Anne Frank\" stage play. She contacted Levin’s son Mikael Levin who introduced her to his mother, French author Tereska Torres, and to Levin’s vast collection of books and films. \n\nWith permission from Torres, Strome began her research in earnest at the Howard Gotleib Archival Research Center of rare book and manuscript collections at Boston University. More than 50 boxes of personal letters, trial transcripts, and articles belonging to Meyer Levin were made available. It was there that she came across Levin’s original, annotated script for the Radio Play, a document Levin’s family had never seen. It is a historical piece of literature that had fallen into obscurity after what appeared as a controversy between Levin and Otto Frank.\n\nStrome's effort to restore Levin's radio play as part of Anne Frank's legacy of dramatic adaptations resulted in a North American Educational Initiative, annefrankunites.org, as a contribution to the fight against intolerance. Strome was authorized by the Anne Frank Fonds, Basel Switzerland (AnneFrank.ch) to provide the materials with Limited Use July 15th 2013-2015.\n\nOn September 14, 2009, Strome produced a private, live performance of Levin’s Radio Play at the Museum of Jewish Heritage--A Living Memorial to the Holocaust in NYC. It was the first time the play was heard since its original air date in 1952. This performance marks the first time that the Anne Frank Fonds in Basel, Switzerland, acknowledged Meyer Levin’s work on the Diary. The Museum performance was followed by a panel discussion moderated by Neil Baldwin, PhD and featuring author Cynthia Ozick and Strome. \n\nActors\n\nJonathan Hogan (Otto Frank) \n\nSara Kapner (Anne Frank)\n\nLori Wilner (Mrs. Frank)\n\nJessica Dean (Margot)\n\nMary Rasmussen (Miep/Lies)\n\nStuart Zagnit (Mr. Van Daan)\n\nCberyl Stern (Mrs. Van Daan)\n\nMacleod Andrews (Peter Van Daan)\n\nAndy Prosky (Announcer/Koophius/Dussel)\n\nProduction\n\ncomposer/musical director: Bob Magnuson\n\nOn September 15, 2012 Strome produced and directed a free On Demand podcast of the radio play to commemorate the 60th anniversary of its original and only CBS broadcast in 1952.\n\nActors\n\nBruce Nozick (announcer, Mr. Van Daan, Albert Dussel) \n\nTara Platt (Miep, Margot)\n\nRick Zieff (Otto Frank)\n\nTasia Valenza (Mrs. Frank) \n\nJustine Huxley (Anne) \n\nKatie Zieff (Lies)\n\nTracy Pattin (Mrs. Van Daan)\n\nYuri Lowenthal (Peter Van Daan, Koophuis) \n\nProduction\n\nComposer/Musician: Bob Magnuson\n\nTechnical director/audio engineer: Mark Holden\n\n"}
{"id": "4984793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4984793", "title": "The Sofia Echo", "text": "The Sofia Echo\n\nThe Sofia Echo is Bulgaria's national English-language weekly newspaper published out of Sofia, the capital of Bulgaria. \n\nThe \"Sofia Echo\" has been published since April 1997, generally targeted at the Bulgarian expatriate community. The newspaper is published by Sofia Echo Media Ltd. A majority stake in the company was bought in 2007 by Bulgarian publisher Economedia. The newspaper is distributed in major Sofia hotels, in outlets throughout the country, as well as in the OMV, Lukoil and Shell petrol stations and the Billa hypermarkets.\n\nFrom 2005 on, articles from the weekly newspaper have been published online with daily news at its website.\n\nIn 2017 it seems the Sofia Echo is no longer active. The website is not registered and the paper is not available at regular newsstands in Sofia.\n\n"}
{"id": "25692137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25692137", "title": "Tim Soar", "text": "Tim Soar\n\nTim Soar is a British fashion designer, graphic designer, event planner and DJ.\n\nSoar began his creative career working with designer Neville Brody on an interiors project POST Design. This was followed by independent practice as a graphic designer, and then in the design company STAC collaborating with photographer Andrew Catlin. His work was focussed in music, producing artwork for numerous international record sleeves, publications and campaigns.\n\nWhile working with Neville Brody, Soar became involved in the music industry and began working as a DJ. Soar had residencies at a number of venues and clubs across London. He was also involved in the writing and arrangement of 23 Skidoo's song \"Just Like Everybody\". He was also part of the band called Toll, which released the album \"Christ Knows\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Soar launched the Tim Soar design label and this was described as “really well-made menswear that mixes minimalism, sportswear, tailoring, and unusual fabrications.” In an interview, Soar described his foray from music to fashion design with these words:I felt that I had something to say about modern menswear and that it was time to move on from the flippant to something more serious. I was tired of seeing gimmicky menswear that was badly made and did not fit correctly. I set out to produce clothes that are a synthesis of minimalism and the avant garde made to the highest possible standards.The first collection was presented by the London-based B-Store, the second collection by Liberty, and has continued with packed shows at each London Fashion Week since Spring/Summer 09. His women's wear line debuted in 2011 with a capsule collection for Browns 24. Soar told British Vogue that the concept is womenswear for boyish women. Soar's collections are now available in numerous countries worldwide.\n\nSoar is also creative head of Music Concrete, a music consultancy that was established in 1987. It initially catered to the boutique hotel market but has since expanded into launches, fashion, and events. He has worked with many of the leading UK and international fashion designers and design houses, including Donna Karen Prada, Ralph Lauren, Levi's, Fendi, LVMH, Mathew Williamson, Fendi and Adidas. Through Music Concrete, Soar also collaborated with luxury hotels groups including Schrager Hotels, St. Martin's Lane Hotel, Sanderson, Columbus and Great Eastern.\n\n"}
{"id": "1379324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1379324", "title": "Top League Champions Cup", "text": "Top League Champions Cup\n\nThe Top League Championship is Japan's highest-level knockout tournament for rugby union clubs. Held annually, the leading teams from the Top League regular season qualify for the playoffs to decide the Cup title. From 2018 onward, the All-Japan Rugby Football Championship has doubled as the Top League Championship Cup. Previously, teams competed for the Lixil Cup, from 2014 to 2016, and Microsoft Cup (prior to 2009).\n\nThe Top League competition is a Japanese industrial league that presently consists of sixteen teams, all owned by major companies. \n\nInitially sponsored by Microsoft Japan, the knockout tournament was first contested by the top eight teams from the Top League in 2004. It was considered a separate competition to the Top League for the first three seasons but was officially integrated for the 2006–07 season. The number of teams was also cut to four to give a format of two semi-finals and a final, and from that time onward until the 2016–17 season the winner of the knockout cup was recognised as the Top League champion.\n\nThere were no title-play-offs in 2016–17, and the team on top of the league after the round-robin stage won the Top League title.\n\nSummary totals for all Top League championships up to and including 2018:\nNotes:\n\nThe Panasonic Wild Knights summary includes results for the Sanyo Wild Knights from 2003–2012.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>NEC won the 2004 Microsoft Cup but Kobe Steel was the Top League champion. These were separate competitions prior to 2007.\nThe 2004 Kobe Steel and Sanyo (Panasonic) semi-final appearances are included, although that cup was not part of the championship.\nYamaha was 3rd and Suntory 4th in the 2003–04 Top League championship, but these results are not counted as semi-final appearances.\n\nTeams listed are those that qualified from the Top League for the title play-offs in each season, or the top four teams where there were no play-offs. Results of the play-offs are written so that the score of the team in each row is mentioned first. \n\nSuntory Sungoliath 12–8 Panasonic Wild Knights \n\nThere were no title-play-offs in 2018, and the team on top of the league after the round-robin stage was crowned the Top League title winner. However, the top three teams progressed to the All-Japan Championship.\n\nThe All-Japan Championship doubled as the Top League Champions Cup title from 2018 onward, with university teams excluded.\n\nFrom the 2013–14 season, the Top League tournament was contested by sixteen teams. The top four teams from the league competition (or the top eight in 2016) advanced to the play-offs to compete for the Lixil Trophy and Top League Championship.\n\nFor the 2006–07 season the tournament was expanded to fourteen teams and the Top League and Microsoft Cup competitions were combined. Only the top four teams on the regular season table progressed to title play-offs and the winner of the knockout competition was awarded both the Microsoft Cup and the Top League title.\n\nVideo referee (TMO) decisions were introduced for the 2009 Cup series. The naming rights partnership with Microsoft for the knockout competition ended after the 2009 Cup final.\n\nFor the first three seasons the competition format was a single round-robin tournament contested by twelve teams, with the team finishing top of the table winning the Top League title. The Microsoft Cup was a separate knockout competition for the top eight teams in the league.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1450731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1450731", "title": "USS N-3 (SS-55)", "text": "USS N-3 (SS-55)\n\nUSS \"N-3\" (SS-55) was a \"N\"-class coastal defense submarine of the United States Navy. Her keel was laid down on 31 July 1915 by the Seattle Construction and Drydock Company. She was launched on 21 February 1917 sponsored by Miss Bertha Coontz, daughter of the commandant of Puget Sound Navy Yard, and commissioned on 26 September 1917 with Lieutenant William R. Munroe in command. \"N-3\" was the last submarine constructed in Seattle.\nFollowing sea trials in Puget Sound, \"N-3\", with sister ships and , departed the Navy Yard on 21 November 1917. The three submarines arrived at New London, Connecticut, on 7 February 1918. From here, \"N-3\" patrolled along the New England coast and off Long Island. On 23 July, a British steamer mistook \"N-3\" as a German U-boat and fired on her at a range of only 50 yards. Although hit by a six-inch shell, the submarine suffered only slight damage and after repairs at sea, was able to proceed to New York Navy Yard under her own power. Following permanent repairs, \"N-3\" returned to the Submarine School, New London for patrol and training duty through 1920.\n\nDeparting New London on 1 June 1921, \"N-3\" sailed for Toledo, Ohio. One of the first submarines to navigate the St. Lawrence River and the Great Lakes, she put in at Halifax, Nova Scotia, Montreal, Quebec, and Port Dalhousie before arriving Toledo, Ohio, on 25 June. She remained there for 11 days, open to the public for inspection. Departing on 6 July, she returned to New London, arriving on 20 July, and from there cruised along the East Coast from Halifax to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, conducting training cruises. Departing New London, she sailed for the Philadelphia Navy Yard, where she decommissioned on 30 April 1926. She was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 18 December 1930 and was scrapped in mid-1931.\n"}
{"id": "47720853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47720853", "title": "Woman's World's Fair", "text": "Woman's World's Fair\n\nThe first Woman's World's Fair was held in Chicago in 1925. The idea of the completely women-run fair was to display the progress of ideas, work, and products of twentieth-century women.\n\nThe first Women's World's Fair was held April 18–25 of 1925 in Chicago at the American Furniture Mart Building and officially opened by First Lady Grace Coolidge. The eight-day fair was the idea of Helen Bennett and Ruth Hanna McCormick. It was run entirely by women and consisted of 280 booths representing some seventy women occupations. The fair drew about 200,000 visitors, earning a net of some $50,000.\n\nThe fair's purpose was to display women's ideas, work, and products for the twentieth century. At the 1876 Centennial Exposition there had been a Women's Pavilion funded and organized by women and in particular Elizabeth Duane Gillespie. The building was over and it was in the shape of a Maltese cross. The Chicago World's Fair of 1893 demonstrated some women's handicrafts in a sewing exhibit, but this fair was to show the progress women had made in seventy industries since then. A side benefit of the fair was that it raised money for the women's Republican Party organizations. The exhibits showed women's accomplishments in the arts, literature, science, and industry. These exhibits were also an inspiration to young women in their new careers. One of the exhibitors was Illinois Bell Telephone Company. Others were newspapers, manufacturers, hospitals, banks, and retail stores. Many local enterprises had employment opportunities.\n\nWomen lawyers, inventors, and artists had booths demonstrating women's contributions in these fields. As an example, American sculptor Harriet Whitney Frishmuth was represented by her 1920 bronze work \"Joy of the Waters\". Women's organizations were represented by the Women's Trade Union League, Business and Professional Women's Club, the Visiting Nurse Association, the YWCA, Hull House, the Illinois Club for Catholic Women, and the Auxiliary House of the Good Shepherd.\n\nA group of about one thousand women from Sycamore, Illinois, on April 23 had breakfast with famous women. An all woman's orchestra furnished music. The speakers were women of notoriety which included women authors, business women, and various women artisans. The speeches were limited to five minutes. The main speaker was Nellie Tayloe Ross, the only state governor there. Another speaker was the collector of internal revenue of Chicago. Another was the secretary of the Cabinet Department of Commerce for President Herbert Hoover. The medical profession was represented by Dr. Alice Hamilton of Harvard University. The legal profession was represented by Judge Kathryn Sellers of Washington, D.C.\n\nWhiting Hall was visited by the women after the speeches. The booths where artistically decorated showing some of a hundred or so different occupations in which women were employed. Some of these were antique needlework, pottery, silver fox farming, and goat breeding. Examples that received special attention were nurses and welfare workers. A key note was emphasis on earnestness, punctuality and thoroughness in whatever line of work was undertaken.\n\nA unique feature of the first Woman's World's Fair was a daily program. There was a particular topic for each day. Besides being instructive it was entertaining. Music and dancing were especially emphasized each day. Bennett was the general director of the fair. The woman's fair was a success and held for three additional years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5694046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5694046", "title": "Women in philosophy", "text": "Women in philosophy\n\nWomen have engaged in philosophy throughout the field's history. While there were women philosophers since ancient times, and a relatively small number were accepted as philosophers during the ancient, medieval, modern and contemporary eras, particularly during the 20th and 21st century, almost no woman philosophers have entered the philosophical Western canon.\n\nIn ancient philosophy in the West, while academic philosophy was typically the domain of male philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle, female philosophers such as Hipparchia of Maroneia (active ca. 325 BC), Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th century BC) and Aspasia of Miletus (470–400 BC) were active during this period. Notable medieval philosophers include Hypatia (5th century), St. Hildegard of Bingen (1098-1179) and St. Catherine of Sienna (1347-1380). Notable modern philosophers included Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797) and Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810-1850). Influential contemporary philosophers include Susanne Langer (1895–1985), Hannah Arendt (1906–1975), Simone de Beauvoir (1908–1986), Mary Midgley (born 1919), Mary Warnock (born 1924), Julia Kristeva (born 1941), Patricia Churchland (born 1943) and Susan Haack (born 1945).\n\nIn the early 1800s, some colleges and universities in the UK and US began admitting women, giving rise to new generations of female academics. Nevertheless, U.S. Department of Education reports from the 1990s indicate that philosophy is one of the least proportionate fields in the humanities with respect to gender. Women make up as little as 17% of philosophy faculty in some studies. In 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" described the philosophy \"...discipline’s own long history of misogyny and sexual harassment\" of women students and professors. Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, stated in 2015 that women are \"...leaving philosophy after being harassed, assaulted, or retaliated against.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Canadian Philosophical Association claimed that there is gender imbalance and gender bias in the academic field of philosophy. In June 2013, a US sociology professor stated that \"out of all recent citations in four prestigious philosophy journals, female authors comprise just 3.6 percent of the total.\" The editors of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy have raised concerns about the underrepresentation of women philosophers, and they require editors and writers to ensure they represent the contributions of women philosophers. According to Eugene Sun Park, \"[p]hilosophy is predominantly white and predominantly male. This homogeneity exists in almost all aspects and at all levels of the discipline.\" Susan Price argues that the philosophical \"...canon remains dominated by white males—the discipline that...still hews to the myth that genius is tied to gender.\" According to Saul, \"[p]hilosophy, the oldest of the humanities, is also the malest (and the whitest). While other areas of the humanities are at or near gender parity, philosophy is actually more overwhelmingly male than even mathematics.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Canadian Philosophical Association claimed that \"...there is compelling evidence\" of \"...philosophy’s gender imbalance\" and \"bias and partiality in many of its theoretical products.\" In 1992, the association recommended that \"fifty percent of [philosophy]...positions should be filled by women.” In a 2008 article “Changing the Ideology and Culture of Philosophy: Not by Reason (Alone),” MIT philosophy professor Sally Haslanger stated that the top twenty graduate programs in philosophy in the US have from 4 percent to 36 percent women faculty. In June 2013, Duke University professor of sociology Kieran Healy stated that \"out of all recent citations in four prestigious philosophy journals, female authors comprise just 3.6 percent of the total.\" The editors of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy have raised concerns about the underrepresentation of women philosophers; as such, the encyclopedia “encourage[s] [their] authors, subject editors, and referees to help ensure that SEP entries do not overlook the work of women or indeed of members of underrepresented groups more generally.”\n\nIn 2014, philosophy professors Neven Sesardic and Rafael De Clercq published an article entitled \"Women in Philosophy: Problems with the Discrimination Hypothesis.\" The article states that a \"...number of philosophers attribute the underrepresentation of women in philosophy largely to bias against women or some kind of wrongful discrimination\". Evidence cited includes \"gender disparities that increase along the path from undergraduate student to full-time faculty member\"; \"anecdotal accounts of discrimination in philosophy\"; \"research on gender bias in the evaluation of manuscripts, grants, and curricula vitae in other academic disciplines\"; \"psychological research on implicit bias\"; \"psychological research on stereotype threat\" and the \"...relatively small number of articles written from a feminist perspective in leading philosophy journals\". Sesardic and De Clercq argue that \"proponents of the discrimination hypothesis, who include distinguished philosophers ...have tended to present evidence selectively.\"\n\nAmerican philosopher Sally Haslanger stated in 2008 that \"...it is very hard to find a place in philosophy that isn’t actively hostile towards women and minorities, or at least assumes that a successful philosopher should look and act like a (traditional, white) man.” Haslanger states that she experienced “occasions when a woman’s status in graduate school was questioned because she was married, or had a child (or had taken time off to have a child so was returning to philosophy as a ‘mature’ student), or was in a long-distance relationship\". American philosopher Martha Nussbaum, who completed a PhD in philosophy at Harvard University in 1975, alleges that she encountered a tremendous amount of discrimination during her studies at Harvard, including sexual harassment and problems getting childcare for her daughter.\n\nIn July 2015, British philosopher Mary Warnock addressed the issue of the representation of women in British university philosophy departments, where 25% of faculty are women. Warnock stated she is \"... against intervention, by quotas or otherwise, to increase women’s chances of employment\" in philosophy. She also argues that \"... there is nothing intrinsically harmful about this imbalance\" and she states that she does not \"...believe it shows a conscious bias against women.\" Philosopher Julian Baggini states that he believes that there is \"...little or no conscious discrimination against women in philosophy\". At the same time, Baggini states that there may be a \"...great deal of unconscious bias\" against women in philosophy, because philosophy generally does not address issues of gender or ethnicity.\n\nIn 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" described the philosophy \"...discipline’s own long history of misogyny and sexual harassment.\" On March 28, 2011, the blog \"New APPS\" published a post examining the allegations of persistent sexual harassment faced by women professors in philosophy, due largely to \"serial harassers\" continuing to work in the field despite widespread knowledge of their actions. The post proposed that, since institutional procedures seemed to have been ineffective at removing or punishing harassers, philosophers should socially shun known offenders. The story was subsequently featured at \"Inside Higher Ed\" and several blogs, including Gawker and Jezebel. In 2013, a series of posts on the blog \"What's it like to be a woman in philosophy?\" instigated a spate of mainstream media articles on the continued dominance of men in philosophy. Eric Schliesser, a professor of philosophy at Ghent University, said he believes that the \"...systematic pattern of exclusion of women in philosophy is, in part, due to the fact that my profession has allowed a culture of harassment, sexual predating, and bullying to be reproduced from one generation to the next.\"\nAccording to Heidi Lockwood, an associate professor of philosophy at Southern Connecticut State University, there is a \"...power “asymmetry” between professors and students – even graduate students\"; as well, she noted that \"...even when colleges and universities have blanket prohibitions against professor-student sexual relationships, as does Yale...institution-specific policies leave students vulnerable [to sexual advances from faculty] at conferences.\"\nAccording to an August 2013 article in \"Salon\", a tenured male University of Miami philosopher resigned after allegedly \"...sending emails to a [female] student in which he suggested that they have sex three times.\" Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, set up a blog for women philosophers in 2010. She received numerous allegations of sexual harassment by male philosophy faculty, including a \"job candidate who said she was sexually assaulted at the annual APA meeting where job interviews take place\", an \"undergraduate whose professor joked publicly about dripping hot wax on her nipples\" and a \"... lesbian who found herself suddenly invited, after she came out, to join in the sexualizing of her female colleagues.\" Saul states that philosophy departments failed to deal with the allegations. In 2013, the American Philosophical Association formed a committee to study the allegations of sexual harassment of women students and professors by male philosophy faculty. Saul states that one of the allegations was regarding a \"...distinguished visiting speaker whose first words are: “Show me a grad student I can fuck”.\" Saul states that women are \"...leaving philosophy after being harassed, assaulted, or retaliated against.\" In 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" reported allegations that a Yale University philosophy professor had sexually harassed a woman; the \"alleged victim says she reported the professor to Yale, with no real result\".\nIn an interview with \"Inside Higher Ed\", the alleged victim stated that she \"...suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder that impedes everyday life, not only from the alleged attack but also from the “browbeating” she endured as she attempted to report the professor, again and again, to Yale officials.\"\n\nIn 1993, the American Philosophical Association's sexual harassment committee set out guidelines for addressing this issue in philosophy departments. The APA guidelines, which were revised in 2013, stated that:\n\nThere are few black women philosophers, which includes women of African and Caribbean ancestry, African-Americans and other individuals from the African diaspora. According to philosopher Sally Haslanger, the \"numbers of philosophers of color, especially women of color, is even more appalling\"; in a 2003 study, there \"...was insufficient data for any racial group of women other than white women to report.\" In the United States, the \"...representation of scholars of color is plausibly worse than in any other field in the academy, including not only physics, but also engineering.\" According to professor L.K. McPherson, there is a \"gross underrepresentation of blacks in philosophy.\" McPherson states that there is a \"...willful, not necessarily a conscious, preference among many members of the philosophy profession largely to maintain the status quo in terms of: the social group profiles of members; the dynamics of prestige and influence; and the areas and questions deemed properly or deeply 'philosophical.' None of this is good for black folk.\"\n\nThe first black woman in the US to do a PhD in philosophy was Joyce Mitchell Cook, who obtained her degree in 1965 from Yale University. LaVerne Shelton was also one of the earliest black women to receive a PhD in philosophy. Other notable women include Angela Davis, a political activist who specializes in writing about feminism, critical theory, Marxism, popular music, social consciousness, and the philosophy of punishment and prisons; Kathryn Gines, the founding director of the Collegium of Black Woman Philosophers, who specializes in continental philosophy, Africana philosophy, philosophy of race and Black feminist philosophy; Anita L. Allen, the first African-American woman to complete both a JD and a PhD in philosophy, who focuses on political and legal philosophy, and who in 2010 was appointed by President Obama to sit on the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues; and Adrian Piper, an analytical philosopher who received a PhD in philosophy from Harvard; Jaqueline Scott, who received a PhD in philosophy from Stanford University, and who specializes in Nietzsche, nineteenth-century philosophy, race theory and African-American philosophy.\n\nFew Asian women are recognized in contemporary Western philosophy. In a New York Times interview with George Yancy, Korean-American philosopher Emily S. Lee, assistant professor of philosophy at California State University, Fullerton, states, \"I wonder if some of my experiences occur from being Asian-American, in the ways people stereotypically assume that I must specialize in certain areas of philosophy or behave in specific ways, such as being quiet and subdued.\" She postulates that the social forces that stereotype and encourage Asian-Americans to enter more lucrative and secure fields (such as engineering or medicine) combined with influences within the field of philosophy discouraging Asian-American youths from continuing their study in the field has led to the extremely small population of Asian-American female philosophers. University of Washington philosophy professor Carole Lee's report in the American Philosophical Association's newsletter on Asian and Asian-American Philosophers and Philosophies suggests that Asian women face conflicting stereotypes, making it difficult for them to fit into the field of philosophy: \"Women are stereotyped as submissive rather than aggressive and as being bad at math: they lack both characteristics associated with philosophy.\" On the other had, \"Asian Americans are stereotyped as being mathematical; however, they are characterized in \"passive\" rather than aggressive terms.\" Philosopher David Kim offers the explanation that a lack of Asian American mentors in philosophy and \"derogation of philosophical thought that resonates with their identity\" may also contribute to the wide disparity.\n\nU.S. Department of Education reports indicate that philosophy is one of the least proportionate fields in the humanities with respect to gender. Although reports indicate that philosophy as a professional field is disproportionately male, no clear, unequivocal data exists on the number of women currently in philosophy, or indeed, on the number of men in philosophy, and it is debatable how to define what it means to be ‘in philosophy.’ This can variously be defined as the current number of Ph.D. holders in philosophy, the current number of women teaching philosophy in two- and four- year institutions of higher learning either/both full-time and/or part-time (no one data set exists which measures these), or the current number of living women with publications in philosophy. The lack of clear data makes it difficult to establish gender proportions, but the consensus among those who have tried to arrive at an estimate is that women make up between 17% and 30% of academically employed philosophers.\n\nThe National Center for Education Statistics' 2000 report, \"Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Status of Minority and Women Faculty in U.S. Colleges and Universities,\" estimates in Table 23 that the total number of \"History and Philosophy\" U.S. citizens and full-time faculty who primarily taught in 1992 was 19,000, of which 79% were men (i.e. 15,010 men in history and philosophy), 21% were women (3,990). They add, \"In fact, men were at least twice as likely as women to teach history and philosophy.\"\n\nIn their 1997 report, \"Characteristics and Attitudes of Instructional Faculty and Staff in the Humanities,\" NCES notes, that about \"one-half of full-time instructional faculty and staff in 4-year institutions in English and literature (47 percent) and foreign languages (50 percent) were female in the fall of 1992, compared with less than one-half of instructional faculty and staff in history (24 percent) and philosophy and religion (13 percent) (table 4).\" In this report they measure Philosophy and Religion in the same data set, and estimate the total number of full-time instructional Philosophy and Religion faculty and staff in 4-yr institutions to be 7,646. Of these, 87.3% are male (6675 men),\n12.7 are female (971 women). The 1997 report measures History Full-time instructional faculty and staff in 4-yr institutions to be 11,383; male:76.3 (8,686 men);\nfemale: 23.7 (2,697 women). The numbers of women in philosophy from the two studies are not easily comparable, but one rough method may be to subtract the number of women in history in the 1997 report from the number of women estimated to be in 'history and philosophy' in the 2000 report. Doing so suggests that as a rough estimate, 1,293 women are employed as instructors of philosophy.\n\nThe 1997 report indicates that a large portion of all humanities instructors are part-time. Part-time employees are disproportionately female but not majority female. Therefore, considerations of full-time employees only necessarily leave out data on many women working part-time to remain active in their field. In 2004, the percentage of Ph.D.s in philosophy, within the U.S., going to women reached a record high percentage: 33.3%, or 121 of the 363 doctorates awarded.\n\nMinorities and Philosophy (MAP) is an international movement of graduate and undergraduate students and faculty members in philosophy working on issues related to “the underrepresentation of women an minorities in philosophy.” MAP consists of chapters at universities around the world, and the format can vary from school to school. However, all chapters focus broadly on issues minorities face in the profession, philosophical issues regarding minorities, and work done by minority philosophers, as well as issues that are specific to that school’s philosophy department. MAP’s short-term goals include providing a space for students to discuss and work on these issues, and long-term goals include contributing to the culture of academic philosophy and increasing participation and recognition of minorities in philosophy. In recent years, MAP has fostered collaborative work between chapters, establishing \"connections between chapters that benefit both members and departments long-term,\" increased work on inclusive pedagogy, and organized efforts to bring philosophy into communities outside of university campuses, such as prisons and elementary schools.\n\nThe Committee on the Status of Women is a committee of the American Philosophical Association devoted to the assessment and reporting on the status of women in philosophy. It is currently chaired by Hilde Lindemann. In April 2007, the Committee on the Status of Women co-sponsored a session on the central question \"Why Are Women Only 21% of Philosophy\". At this session, Sharon Crasnow suggested that the low numbers of women in philosophy may be due to:\n\nThe Society for Women in Philosophy is a group created in 1972 that seeks to support and promote women in philosophy. It has a number of branches around the world, including in New York, the American Pacific, the United Kingdom and Canada. Each year, the society names one philosopher the distinguished woman philosopher of the year.\n\nHonorees include:\n\nThe blog Feminist Philosophers hosts the Gendered Conference Campaign, which works toward increasing the representation of women at philosophy conferences and in edited volumes. The blog states that \"all-male events and volumes help to perpetuate the stereotyping of philosophy as male. This in turn to contributes to implicit bias against women in philosophy...\"\n\nWhile there were women philosophers since the earliest times, and some were accepted as philosophers during their lives, almost no woman philosophers have entered the philosophical Western canon. Historians of philosophy are faced with two main problems. The first being the exclusion of women philosophers from history and philosophy texts, which leads to a lack of knowledge about women philosophers among philosophy students. The second problem deals with what the canonical philosophers had to say about philosophy and women's place in it. In the past twenty-five years there has been an exponential increase in feminist writing about the history of philosophy and what has been considered the philosophical canon. According to Eugene Sun Park, \"[p]hilosophy is predominantly white and predominantly male. This homogeneity exists in almost all aspects and at all levels of the discipline.\" According to Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, \"[p]hilosophy, the oldest of the humanities, is also the malest (and the whitest). While other areas of the humanities are at or near gender parity, philosophy is actually more overwhelmingly male than even mathematics.\"\n\nIn the May 13, 2015 issue of \"The Atlantic\", Susan Price notes that even though Kant's first work in 1747 cites Émilie Du Châtelet, a philosopher who was a \"...scholar of Newton, religion, science, and mathematics\", \"her work won’t be found in the 1,000-plus pages of the new edition of The Norton Introduction to Philosophy.\" The Norton Introduction does not name a female philosopher until the book begins to cover the mid-20th century. Scholars argue that women philosophers are also absent from the \"...other leading anthologies used in university classrooms.\" Price states that university philosophy anthologies do not usually mention 17th century women philosophers such as Margaret Cavendish, Anne Conway, and Lady Damaris Masham. Price argues that the philosophical \"...canon remains dominated by white males—the discipline that some say still hews to the myth that genius is tied to gender.\" Amy Ferrer, executive director of the American Philosophical Association, states that “...women have been systematically left out of the canon, and that women coming in have not been able to see how much influence women have had in the field.\" \"The Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", which as published in 1967, had \"...articles on over 900 philosophers, [but it] did not include an entry for Wollstonecraft, Arendt or de Beauvoir. \"[T]hese women philosophers were scarcely even marginal\" to the canon set out at the time.\n\nExplaining the very small number of women philosophers, American academic and social critic Camille Paglia (born 1947) argues that \"...women in general are less comfortable than men in inhabiting a highly austere, cold, analytical space, such as the one which philosophy involves. Women as a whole ...are more drawn to practical, personal matters. It is not that they inherently lack a talent or aptitude for philosophy or higher mathematics, but rather that they are more unwilling than men to devote their lives to a frigid space from which the natural and the human have been eliminated.\" Paglia claims that \"[t]oday's lack of major female philosophers is not due to lack of talent but to the collapse of philosophy\", because, in her view, philosophy \"... as traditionally practised may be a dead genre\" that \"belongs to a vanished age of much slower and rhetorically formal inquiry.\"\n\nSome of the earliest philosophers were women, such as Hipparchia of Maroneia (active ca. 325 BC), Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th century BC) and Aspasia of Miletus (470–400 BC). Aspasia appears in the philosophical writings of Plato, Xenophon, Aeschines Socraticus and Antisthenes. Some scholars argue that Plato was impressed by her intelligence and wit and based his character Diotima in the \"Symposium\" on her. Socrates attributes to the (possibly fictional) Diotima of Mantinea his lessons in the art of Eros (or philosophical searching). Plato's final views on women are highly contested, but the \"Republic\" suggests that women are equally capable of education, intellectual vision, and rule of the city.\n\nOther notable philosophers include:\n\nMedieval philosophy dates from the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD to the Renaissance in the 16th century. Hypatia (AD 350 – 370 to 415) was a Greek mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher in Egypt, then a part of the Eastern Roman Empire. She was the head of the Neoplatonic school at Alexandria, where she taught philosophy and astronomy.\n\nOther notable woman philosophers include:\n\nThe 17th century marks the beginning of the modern philosophy era, which ended in the early 20th century. During the 17th century, various women philosophers argued for the importance of education for women and two women philosophers influenced René Descartes and during the early part of the 18th century, two women philosophers commented on John Locke’s philosophy. Laura Bassi (1711–1778) was the first woman to earn a university chair in a scientific field. Olympe de Gouges (1748–1793) demanded that French women be given the same rights as men, a position also taken by Judith Sargent Murray (1751–1820) in her essay \"On the Equality of the Sexes\" and Mary Wollstonecraft in her essay \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792). During the 19th century, Harriet Martineau (1802–1876) criticized the state of women's education and Harriet Taylor Mill (1807–1858), Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810-1850) and Antoinette Brown Blackwell (1825–1921) called for women's rights. Charlotte Perkins Gilman (1860–1935) argued that women were oppressed by an androcentric culture. Near the start of the 20th century, Mary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) was the first woman to become president of the American Philosophical Association. Women thinkers such as Emma Goldman (1869–1940), an anarchist, and\nRosa Luxemburg (1871–1919), a Marxist theorist, are known for their political views.\n\n\n\n\n\nContemporary philosophy is the present period in the history of Western philosophy beginning at the end of the 19th century with the professionalization of the discipline and the rise of analytic and continental philosophy. Some influential women philosophers from this period include:\n\nOther notable philosophers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1168758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168758", "title": "World Latin Dance Champions", "text": "World Latin Dance Champions\n\nThis page lists the official World Champions – Professional Latin of the World Dance Council (WDC). The championships are authorized and organized under the auspices of the WDC, and held annually in the last quarter of each year. The competition comprises five dances: rumba, samba, paso doble, cha-cha-cha and jive, as defined in ballroom dancing terms.\n\nOfficial World Championships have been held in the Latin section of ballroom dancing since they were organised by the ICBD in 1959. The ICBD was renamed WD&DSC and has been renamed again to its present title. The WDC represents all the major professional DanceSport countries. Unofficial world championships were held, usually in Paris, by several organisers pre-World War II. Some of these events included one or two Latin dances in the same competition as ballroom dances. As these events had no official standing, they are not noticed here. There is one earlier international Latin dance championship; it started in 1953 at the Elsa Wells International Dance Championships in London (see International Latin American Dance Champions). Both series have continued annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2228283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2228283", "title": "World Scrabble Championship 1993", "text": "World Scrabble Championship 1993\n\nThe World Scrabble Championship 1993 was the second World Scrabble Championship. The winner was Mark Nyman, representing the United Kingdom, as this was before the countries of the UK were given individual representation.\n\nThe first 15 rounds used modified Swiss pairing. After this, players #1 and #3 and players #2 and #4 played a best-of-five semifinal to determine the finalists while the remaining 64 players played three more games. The semifinals were followed by a best-of-five finals while the two other semifinalists played a best-of-five match to determine third and fourth place.\n\nThe first game of the finals looked like it would go Nyman's way when he bingoed with MUTAGENIC from an MU on his second play and then challenged off Wapnick's DOX. But Nyman later played a phony of his own (VERGINGS) and then got stuck with the Q while Wapnick drew both blanks and won by 38.\n\nIn game two, Wapnick drew both blanks again and won by almost 100 points, aided by the 102-point DYSURIC.\n\nGame three was tight until Nyman played two successive bingos and went on to a 530-victory. The fourth game again started close, until Wapnick scored 212 points on three successive turns (though he missed a 107-point bingo in the process) and took a seemingly insurmountable 174-point lead. A few turns later, Wapnick had the opportunity to take a 212 point lead with HELMING, but the play would have opened a triple-triple line with both blanks unseen so he opted for a more conservative 41-point play and still led by 170. Against the odds, Nyman came back with a 50-point X play and bingos with both blanks and went on to a devastating 9-point victory.\n\nThe key point in the final game came when Wapnick, holding a blank, played STUM instead of SMUR (of which he was unsure). Nyman then bingoed with BEDAWIN setting up an S-hook on the O column. Unable to play a bingo ending in S because of his STUM play, Wapnick instead played GROANERs when he could have blocked the O column with ORANGiER. Sure enough, Nyman drew an S and played VELURES for 91 points then coasted to an easy win to become the first non-North American to win the world championship.\n\n"}
