{"id": "9766664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9766664", "title": "1925 in radio", "text": "1925 in radio\n\nThe year 1925 saw a number of significant events in radio broadcasting history.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1178527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1178527", "title": "Across the Wide Missouri (book)", "text": "Across the Wide Missouri (book)\n\nAcross the Wide Missouri, With an Account of the Discovery of the Miller Collection is a 1947 book by American historian Bernard DeVoto. It is the second volume of a trilogy that includes \"The Year of Decision\" (1942) and \"The Course of Empire\" (1952).\n\"Across the Wide Missouri\" is a history of the fur trade in the American West, during its peak in the 1830s. The trapping of beaver and other animals caused conflicts between the trappers and the various Native American tribes of the Upper Missouri River Basin.\nThe book was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1948 and was adapted as an eponymous 1951 film starring Clark Gable.\n\n"}
{"id": "11988925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988925", "title": "Apparition of the Virgin to St Bernard (Filippino Lippi)", "text": "Apparition of the Virgin to St Bernard (Filippino Lippi)\n\nApparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Filippino Lippi, completed around 1485–1487. It is housed in the Badia Fiorentina, a church in Florence.\n\nThe picture was commissioned for the chapel of Francesco del Pugliese by the latter's son Piero, who is portrayed in the lower right corner in the traditional praying posture of the donor portrait.\n\nIt is one of the most admired Lippi's works, due to its powerful, Flemish-inspired chromatism and attention to details, which contribute in turning the mystical apparition of the Virgin to St. Bernard into an everyday life scene. The composition is set in a rocky landscape in which the saint, while writing on his lectern, is suddenly visited by the Virgin. Behind Bernard's shoulders is depicted the demon biting his chains: this is a reference to a medieval hymn celebrating the Virgin as the liberator of humanity from the chains of their sins.\n\nA scroll on a rock contains a verse by the 3rd century AD stoic writer Epictetus: \"Sustine et abstine\" (\"Carry on and abstain\"), a hint to Bernard's teachings.\n\nSome scholars have identified in the faces of the Virgin and the angels on the left the portraits of the donor's wife and sons\n\n"}
{"id": "34238698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34238698", "title": "Arnošt Muka", "text": "Arnošt Muka\n\nArnošt Muka (10 March 1854 – 10 October 1932) was a German and Sorbian writer, linguist and man of science.\n\nMuka was born in Großhänchen which is now in the municipality of Burkau, and studied theology, classical languages and Slavonic in Leipzig. Because of his activities in connection with the Sorbian languages, he was sent to teach in a gymnasium in Chemnitz in 1883, and later to Freiberg. In 1917, he moved back to Bautzen, where he died on 10 October 1932.\n\n"}
{"id": "301343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301343", "title": "Assistant Language Teacher", "text": "Assistant Language Teacher\n\nAn Assistant Language Teacher (ALT) is a foreign national serving as an assistant teacher (paraprofessional educator) in a Japanese classroom, particularly for English.\n\nThe term was created by the Japanese Ministry of Education at the time of the creation of the JET Programme as a translation of the term 外国語指導助手 (\"gaikokugo shidō joshu\") or literally \"foreign language instruction assistant\". The terms AET (Assistant English Teacher), ELT (English Language Teacher) and NESA (Native English Speaking Assistant) are also in use. The term is used by the Ministry of Education, local Boards of Education (BOEs) and schools in Japan primarily to refer to English language speakers who assist with teaching of English in elementary, junior high and senior high schools. However, some ALTs help teach languages other than English.\n\nALTs are required to be university graduates, but they are usually not certified teachers like their Japanese colleagues.\n\nThe JET Programme set the general prerequisites imposed by Japanese immigration (bachelor's degree, health, nationality) and the characteristics that can be considered to be sought by the Japanese government, boards of education (BOEs), and schools.\n\nIn the case of ALTs from private language teaching companies, further requirements may include items such as TEFL certification, Japanese language ability (at least spoken) at a communicative level, teaching experience (both within Japan and in other countries) and other specialized skills (foreign languages other than English, IT, etc.) However, as a basic rule, the standards that are expected of JET Programme are still considered as norms among private language teaching companies that provide ALTs to BOEs, although agreements between BOEs and private companies often allow for a relaxing on some of these rules.\n\nAt one time, the majority of ALTs were recruited through the JET Programme, but now most are hired by private language teaching companies, also known as \"dispatch companies\", either within Japan or abroad. Once hired, ALTs are sent to work in junior and senior high-schools and, increasingly, in elementary schools throughout Japan. ALTs are either assigned to one main school, or can work at a number of different schools in their area. ALTs entering on the JET programme are not required to have any prior teaching experience or ESL training. Many ALTs hired privately have prior experience and/or training.\n\nALTs hired on the JET Programme typically enter either in July or August, but most private ALTs are usually on a contract which runs from April until at least the end of the third school term in March. Some AETs dispatched to City of Nagoya public schools have contracts that begin in mid-May and end in mid-February. Some ALTs also have set, paid holidays during the spring, summer and winter school vacations, in addition to all Japanese public holidays, but some ALTs are not paid between semesters or for national holidays, and do not receive paid vacation leave. By combining the 23 national holidays with the time off during school holidays, the actual number of working days per year is somewhere near 200 through private companies, which is one of the major attractions of the ALT position, however many schools require you to undertake other tasks when not teaching, so the actual hours worked are similar to other jobs in Japan. Most JET Programme ALTs are required to work through the school holidays, receiving the 23 national holidays plus annual leave as holiday time.\n\nThe pay for a private ALT is usually less than a full-time Eikaiwa teacher and far less than a teacher from the JET Programme (¥3.36 to ¥3.96 million depending on year in the program), with some of the lowest salaries around ¥180,000 per month (¥2.16 million annually)\nThe Interac company ALTs/ dispatch staff make approximately ¥3600 (US $32) per hour, BUT, the ALT receives approximately half of that amount ¥1800( US$16 ) per hour before tax. Interac deducts approximately half of the monthly earnings with its justification being that it trains ALTs and incurs other administrative costs.In reality most Interac ALT's receive 5days of actual training before being dispatched to teach at schools. It is therefore a lucrative business for such companies, minimal initial investment, but constant monthly cashflow from the 3000+ active ALTs at Interac in Japan alone.If requested to attend 3 monthly briefing meetings, the pay is ¥900 per hour( US $7.00).In Japan almost every business which employs a person for 30 hours(or more ), has to pay for the employees monthly health insurance. Interac dodges having to pay health insurance for workers claiming to the government that its employees work only 29.5 hours per week instead of 30 hours. But in REALITY, employees are actually stuck at a school site or at a desk for 40hours(or more) per week {cn|date=October 16th 2018}}. Benefits and workload also vary.Elementary school ALTs are the most exhausted because they require extra 'Genki' energy to engage students and recently focus has changed with new MEXT ideologies as of March 2018 . JHS and Highschool are less energy consuming but focus more on grammar and practical use of English . Some companies pay their ALTs between semesters and some do not. Some provide benefits, such as access to employer subsidized health insurance, paid holidays, paid vacation/sick leave and unemployment insurance, and some do not.\n\nAn ALT's primary duty is to assist Japanese teachers of English to deliver lessons in the classroom, and may be involved in lesson planning and other language teaching tasks.Regarding Elemenary school, the term ALT is often misleading, in many instances the ALT will solely be responsible for total lesson planning( for the academic year and delivering the lessons). This is mostly the case with Elementary schools outside of the Kanto region. During such lessons, Japanese teachers often act as a support teacher or translator.In those instances the term \"Assistant\" Language Teacher becomes unsuitable, as the ALT is not \"assisting\" but actually \"leading and facilitating\" the entire english class. However in Junior Highschool and Highschool, the degree to which the Japanese teacher of English actually uses the ALT is usually decided at the discretion of the Japanese teacher. Some allow ALTs to plan and lead language activities in class, sometimes for the entire class period, while others make minimal use of their ALT, such as limiting them to reading new vocabulary words for the students to repeat and having the ALT walk between the rows of students while the students do writing assignments. An ALT also contributes information to teaching advisors on phraseology and pronunciation.\n\nALTs usually take part in three to five classes per day. The classes are usually 45–50 minutes in length. An ALT participates in about 17 to 20 classes per week. Sometimes ALTs are asked to help teach special education classes, which may include students who have barriers to learning. They may also be asked to take part in after/before school club activities (\"bukatsudō\"), such as sports, calligraphy, music or ikebana, to learn more about the culture alongside their students and to foster international exchange. However, some ALTs choose not to participate, or go from group to group just to visit. The English level of the students varies from school to school, and at some schools the students and teachers are unable to communicate in English in any meaningful way. Higher level high schools sometimes have an English club, which the ALT would attend and assist in the students' planning and preparations for debate contests, speech competitions and English camps.\n\nALTs may also be asked to perform tasks normally done by Japanese students and teachers, such as cleaning the school, cleaning drainage gutters, and removing snow from parking areas. ALTs at some schools, mostly junior high schools, are expected to eat lunch with the students. These ALTs might not be allowed to leave the school for lunch or to run personal errands during their break. ALTs may be instructed to use non-standard English in front of students. They are sometimes asked to perform clerical tasks, such as correcting student writing assignments, by the Japanese teachers.\n\nALTs may be required to read aloud stories about atomic bombings and the lingering deaths of Japanese children to their classes, which omit any mention of World War II or the Japanese government's conduct during the war.\n\nIn 1999, Dispatch Law (労働者派遣) was deregulated to allow dispatch companies to enter into other fields of work aside from the traditional industry of manufacturing, including education. Since then more and more local boards of education have turned to private language companies to provide ALTs rather than using the JET Programme.\n\nThe business of private language teaching companies providing ALTs is increasing and some with hundreds of ALTs are covering all parts of the country. There is the impression that the private sector in general continues to grow as The JET Programme loses share in the market. Private dispatch companies vary from large corporations to local firms.\n\n\nThe above list is by no means comprehensive, and some other categories that vary from situation to situation may include: the ability to transfer (both locationally and between positions), evaluation, reward systems, and professional development opportunities.\n\nSome of the contracts that school boards have signed with private language teaching companies are illegal \"gyomu itaku\" (service contracts). According to the Japanese Ministry of Education, these contracts violate Japan's General Education Law since the principal must be in charge of all staff at their school. However, with these contracts, the company is actually in charge - not the principal.\n\nThe licensed Japanese teacher is normally in charge of junior high school and high school classes regardless of where the ALT originates; however in the case of elementary school classes, the ALT is normally responsible for the entire class, with the Japanese teacher either providing limited input or in some cases not being present in the classroom, and for that reason the continuity of school management is sometimes maintained with the school principal in compliance with any legal requirements, as the product being contracted itself is an abstract, education, and the contract basis for private language teaching corporations is to provide education and educational services.\n\nIt is common for ALTs to be recruited with job contracts with private language companies such as W5, Interac, Borderlink and WING which stipulates ALT working hours as being 29.5 hours per week. In actuality, working hours usually range from 30 to 40 hours due to the fact that transition times between classes and other brief periods of time throughout the working day are scheduled as breaktimes. Employers often have employees sign such contracts in an effort to avoid paying into the employer based Social Insurance program, or Shakai hoken. While Social Insurance law states that all regular employees should be enrolled by their employer in Shakai Hoken, companies consistently tell their employees that they are ineligible. Their reasoning is that the 29.5 hours a week working time written into the contracts fall below an erroneous minimum of 3/4 full-time necessary for eligibility. The Social Insurance Agency uses the 3/4 of the hours of a similar full-time as a guideline. However, the Japanese government has recent stated that there is, in fact, no minimum legal work time requirement for enrollment in Shakai Hoken. Furthermore, no company would ever be prohibited from enrolling their employees in the Social Insurance program. Some AETs dispatched to the City of Nagoya have a 35-hour work week and are not enrolled in Shakai Hoken, receive no paid sick leave, no paid holidays, no paid vacation leave, and are not enrolled in unemployment insurance. They are only paid for days worked and receive no pay between semesters except for a few training sessions.\n\nIn 2006, ALTs in Kanagawa Prefecture who were previously hired directly as part-time workers rejected the privatization of their jobs to Interac, a nationwide language services dispatch company, and took the Kanagawa Prefecture Board of Education to the Labour Relations Board where the case is still on-going.\n\nAs in many cases, the likely cause of the dissolution of the direct-hire situation draws back to Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi who took a hard-line stance on privatization (e.g. Japan Post) and the idea of allowing local governments more flexibility in deciding how to spend their budgets.\n\nThe General Workers Union has been involved with several boards of education in the Kanto area including the Tokyo Board of Education, the Koga Board of Education (in Ibaraki Prefecture) and the Fukaya Board of Education (in Saitama Prefecture). In the case versus the Tokyo Board of Education, the General Workers Union won a decision stating that the directly hired ALTs were indeed legally classified as \"workers\" (\"rodosha\") and not simply contractors. Further victories were achieved through the private companies that had contracts with the Koga and Fukaya boards of education.\n\n\n\nPro Union Links:\n\nContra Union Links:\n\n"}
{"id": "6188664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6188664", "title": "Atri, Abruzzo", "text": "Atri, Abruzzo\n\nAtri (Greek: or ; Latin: Adria, Atria, Hadria, or Hatria) is a \"comune\" in the Province of Teramo in the Abruzzo region of Italy. Atri is the setting of the poem \"The Bell of Atri\" by American writer Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Its name is the origin of the name of the Emperor Hadrian.\n\nAncient Adria was a city of Picenum, situated about from the Adriatic Sea, between the rivers Vomanus (modern Vomano) and Matrinus (modern Piomba). According to the Antonine Itinerary, it was distant 15 Roman miles from Castrum Novum (modern Giulianova) and 14 from Teate (modern Chieti). It has been supposed, with much probability, to be of Etruscan origin, and a colony from the more celebrated city of the name, now Adria in the Veneto region, though there is no historical evidence of the fact. \n\nThe city was founded by Greeks from Aegina and reestablished by Dionysius I the tyrant of Syracuse in the 4th century BC.\n\nThe first certain historical notice of Adria is the establishment of a Roman colony there about 282 BCE. In the early part of the Second Punic War (217 BCE) its territory was ravaged by Hannibal; but notwithstanding this calamity, it was one of the 18 Latin colonies which, in 209 BCE, were faithful to the cause of Rome, and willing to continue their contributions both of men and money. At a later period, according to the \"Liber de Coloniis\", it must have received a fresh colony, probably under Augustus: hence it is termed a \"Colonia\", both by Pliny and in inscriptions. One of these gives it the titles of Colonia Aelia Hadria, whence it would appear that it had been re-established by the emperor Hadrian, whose family was originally derived from hence. Hadrian was a native of Italica in Spain, a colony of \"Italian\" settlers in Hispania Baetica and his family was the gens Aelia.\n\nThe territory of Adria (ager Adrianus), though subsequently included in Picenum, appears to have originally formed a separate and independent district, bounded on the north by the river Vomanus (Vomano), and on the south by the Matrinus (la Piomba); at the mouth of this latter river was a town bearing the name of Matrinum, which served as the port of Adria; the city itself stood on a hill a few miles inland, on the same site still occupied by the modern Atri, a place of some consideration, with the title of a city, and the see of a bishop. Great part of the circuit of the ancient walls may be still traced, and mosaic pavements and other remains of buildings are also preserved. According to the \"Antonine Itinerary\" Adria (which may have been the original terminus of the Via Caecilia), was the point of junction of the Via Salaria and Via Valeria, a circumstance which probably contributed to its importance and flourishing condition under the Roman Empire.\n\nAfter the fall of Rome, the region was subjected, along with most of northern and central Italy, to a long period of violent conflict. Ultimately, in the 6th century, the Lombards succeeded in establishing hegemony over the area, and Atri and other parts of Abruzzo found themselves annexed to the Duchy of Spoleto. The Lombards were displaced by the Normans, whose noble House of Acquaviva family ruled the town for decades from about 1393, before merging their lands into the Kingdom of Naples, but remaining dominant in the city as Dukes of Atri until the 19th century. The rule of the Acquaivivas marked the highpoint of Atri's greatest power and splendor.\n\nIt is now generally admitted that the coins of Adria (with the legend \"HAT.\") belong to the city of Picenum, not that of the Veneto; but great difference of opinion has been entertained as to their age. They belong to the class commonly known as aes grave, and are even among the heaviest specimens known, exceeding in weight the most ancient Roman aeses. On this account they have been assigned to a very remote antiquity, some referring them to the Etruscan, others to the Greek, settlers. But there seems much reason to believe that they are not really so ancient, and belong, in fact, to the Roman colony, which was founded previous to the general reduction of the Italian brass coinage.\n\nSome historians say that the city was founded by the Illyrians in the eleventh century BCE. They think that the city Atri was named after the Illyrian god Hatranus (Hatrani). The ancient name has been also described as the source from which the Adriatic Sea derived its name. Others maintain that the sea was named for Adria, an Etruscan city in Veneto region.\n\n\nThe municipal park of Atri is a green area of about close to the historic center. It was built on areas owned by the Duke and the canons of the cathedral, realized by Paul Odescalchi, bishop of Atri. It comprises artificial terraces (made before World War II) for about three hectares, in a pleasantly arid area.\n\nThe boulevards of the villa are about long. The remaining viability inside of the park is closed to traffic, and it mainly comprises paths.\n\nThere are aso caves, probably once used as stables by the Capuchin friars. Their origin, however, is expected to be much older, and, although there is now no connection to the historic center, it is probable that they were used to escape during pirate raids.\n\nClose to the lookout over the sea and all of the valleys of the Terre del Cerrano (from Roseto degli Abruzzi up to Silvi Marina), there is a liberty-styled fountain, considered the emblem of the Villa Comunale. \n\nThe eastern side of the Belvedere is erected over large walls, the ruins of an ancient fortress, once the summer palace of the local bishops.\n\nAnother symbol of the villa, renovated in the 1930s in an Italian garden, is the \"formaggione\" (the big cheese), a cylindrically shaped hedge, comprising conifers, with four entrances (located at the cardinal points). It represents the Garden of Secrets, a recurring element in many gardens of the castles and the noble villas of Italy, especially between the late 18th- early 19th century century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "510114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510114", "title": "Base station", "text": "Base station\n\nBase station (or base radio station) is – according to the International Telecommunication Union's (ITU) Radio Regulations (RR) – a \"land station in the land mobile service.\"\n\nThe term is used in the context of mobile telephony, wireless computer networking and other wireless communications and in land surveying. In surveying, it is a GPS receiver at a known position, while in wireless communications it is a transceiver connecting a number of other devices to one another and/or to a wider area.\nIn mobile telephony, it provides the connection between mobile phones and the wider telephone network. In a computer network, it is a transceiver acting as a switch for computers in the network, possibly connecting them to a/another local area network and/or the Internet. In traditional wireless communications, it can refer to the hub of a dispatch fleet such as a taxi or delivery fleet, the base of a TETRA network as used by government and emergency services or a CB shack.\n\nIn the context of external land surveying, a base station is a GPS receiver at an accurately-known fixed location which is used to derive correction information for nearby portable GPS receivers. This correction data allows propagation and other effects to be corrected out of the position data obtained by the mobile stations, which gives greatly increased location precision and accuracy over the results obtained by uncorrected GPS receivers.\n\nIn the area of wireless computer networking, a base station is a radio receiver/transmitter that serves as the hub of the local wireless network, and may also be the gateway between a wired network and the wireless network. It typically consists of a low-power transmitter and wireless router.\n\nIn radio communications, a base station is a wireless communications station installed at a fixed location and used to communicate as part of one of the following:\n\n\nIn professional two-way radio systems, a base station is used to maintain contact with a dispatch fleet of hand-held or mobile radios, and/or to activate one-way paging receivers. The base station is one end of a communications link. The other end is a movable vehicle-mounted radio or walkie-talkie. Examples of base station uses in two-way radio include the dispatch of tow trucks and taxicabs.\n\nProfessional base station radios are often one channel. In lightly used base stations, a multi-channel unit may be employed. In heavily used systems, the capability for additional channels, where needed, is accomplished by installing an additional base station for each channel. Each base station appears as a single channel on the dispatch center control console. In a properly designed dispatch center with several staff members, this allows each dispatcher to communicate simultaneously, independently of one another, on a different channel as necessary. For example, a taxi company dispatch center may have one base station on a high-rise building in Boston and another on a different channel in Providence. Each taxi dispatcher could communicate with taxis in either Boston or Providence by selecting the respective base station on his or her console.\n\nIn dispatching centers it is common for eight or more radio base stations to be connected to a single dispatching console. Dispatching personnel can tell which channel a message is being received on by a combination of local protocol, unit identifiers, volume settings, and busy indicator lights. A typical console has two speakers identified as \"select\" and \"unselect\". Audio from a primary selected channel is routed to the select speaker and to a headset. Each channel has a busy light which flashes when someone talks on the associated channel.\n\nBase stations can be local controlled or remote controlled. Local controlled base stations are operated by front panel controls on the base station cabinet. Remote control base stations can be operated over tone- or DC-remote circuits. The dispatch point console and remote base station are connected by leased private line telephone circuits, (sometimes called \"RTO circuit\"s), a DS-1, or radio links. The consoles multiplex transmit commands onto remote control circuits. Some system configurations require duplex, or four wire, audio paths from the base station to the console. Others require only a two-wire or half duplex link.\n\n\nBase stations are sometimes called \"control\" or \"fixed\" stations in US Federal Communications Commission licensing. These terms are defined in regulations inside Part 90 of the commissions regulations. In US licensing jargon, types of base stations include:\n\nIn amateur radio, a base station also communicates with mobile rigs but for hobby or family communications. Amateur systems sometimes serve as dispatch radio systems during disasters, search and rescue mobilizations, or other emergencies.\n\nAn Australian UHF CB base station is another example of part of a system used for hobby or family communications.\n\nWireless telephone differ from two-way radios in that:\n\n\nA wireless telephone base station communicates with a mobile or hand-held phone. For example, in a wireless telephone system, the signals from one or more mobile telephones in an area are received at a nearby base station, which then connects the call to the land-line network. Other equipment is involved depending on the system architecture. Mobile telephone provider networks, such as European GSM networks, may involve carrier, microwave radio, and switching facilities to connect the call. In the case of a portable phone such as a US cordless phone, the connection is directly connected to a wired land line.\n\nWhile low levels of radio-frequency power are usually considered to have negligible effects on health, national and local regulations restrict the design of base stations to limit exposure to electromagnetic fields. Technical measures to limit exposure include restricting the radio frequency power emitted by the station, elevating the antenna above ground level, changes to the antenna pattern, and barriers to foot or road traffic. For typical base stations, significant electromagnetic energy is only emitted at the antenna, not along the length of the antenna tower.\n\nBecause mobile phones and their base stations are two-way radios, they produce radio-frequency (RF) radiation in order to communicate, exposing people near them to RF radiation giving concerns about mobile phone radiation and health. Hand-held mobile telephones are relatively low power so the RF radiation exposures from them are generally low.\n\nThe World Health Organization has concluded that \"there is no convincing scientific evidence that the weak RF signals from base stations and wireless networks cause adverse health effects.\"\n\nThe consensus of the scientific community is that the power from these mobile phone base station antennas is too low to produce health hazards as long as people are kept away from direct access to the antennas. However, current international exposure guidelines (ICNIRP) are based largely on the \"thermal\" effects of base station emissions, NOT considering the \"non-thermal\" effects harmless.\n\nFuel cell backup power systems are added to critical base stations or cell sites to provide emergency power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52949123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52949123", "title": "Bats at 37 Military Hospital", "text": "Bats at 37 Military Hospital\n\nThe bats at the 37 military hospital are a colony of an estimated 1 million straw-coloured fruit bats living in the 37 Military Hospital area of Accra, the capital of Ghana. A local legend surrounds this group of animals, saying that a long time ago, a chief from a village in eastern Ghana Kibi was admitted to the hospital accompanied by megabats. He died but the bats are still waiting for him to come home.\n\n"}
{"id": "25870696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25870696", "title": "Bejucal (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Bejucal (Mesoamerican site)\n\nBejucal is a Maya archaeological site in the Petén Department of Guatemala. It is located northeast of El Zotz and was subservient to that city. The site is thought to date to the second half of the 4th century AD, in the Early Classic period.\n\nThe site is located within the San Miguel La Palotada biotope in the municipality of San José in the department of Petén in northern Guatemala. The biotope is a part of the Maya Biosphere Reserve that is bordered on the east by the Tikal National Park and surrounded on all other sides by designated multiple-use zones of the Reserve. Bejucal is situated west of the ruins of Tikal.\n\nBejucal was the original capital of the royal dynasty that later ruled El Zotz, apparently transferring their capital to that city.\n\nThe Teotihuacan-linked general Siyaj K'ak' (\"Fire is Born\") conquered Bejucal in the 4th century, together with many other sites in Petén, including the great city of Tikal.\nA text at the site mentions Siyaj K'ak' as overlord of Bejucal in AD 381. Stela 1 from Bejucal also indicates that Siyaj K'ak' was overlord of nearby El Zotz. From around this time the kings of Bejucal began to refer to themselves as vassals of Tikal, their giant neighbour, using the \"y ajaw\" phrase meaning subordinate lord.\n\nInscriptions at Bejucal all fit within a very short 40-year span in the second half of the 4th century, ending about AD 396. The abrupt cessation of inscriptions at Bejucal is possibly the result of the expansion of the Tikal polity.\n\nIn the late 1970s Ian Graham visited Bejucal and recorded two stelae and a sculpted altar.\n"}
{"id": "25131313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25131313", "title": "Branko Mikasinovich", "text": "Branko Mikasinovich\n\nBranko Mikasinovich (born November 6, 1938 in Belišće) is a Serbian American scholar of Yugoslav and Serbian literature, as well as a noted Slavist. \n\nMikasinovich received his B.A. from Roosevelt University in Chicago in 1965, his M.A. from Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois in 1967, and a Ph.D from the University of Belgrade in 1984. He has taught the Russian language and Slavic literature at Tulane University and the University of New Orleans, and was president of the Louisiana Association of Professors of Slavic and Eastern European languages. \n\nHe has appeared as a panelist on Yugoslav press on ABC's \"Press International\" in Chicago and PBS's \"International Dateline\" in New Orleans. He also appears on \"Voice of America\" and a Serbian Service television program, \"Open Studio\".\n\nHe edited \"Introduction to Yugoslav Literature\" (Twayne, 1973), a representative anthology of modern Yugoslav prose and poetry in English; \"Five Modern Yugoslav Plays\" (Cyrco Press, 1977), a unique collection of plays written between 1945 and 1980; \"Modern Yugoslav Satire\" (Cross-Cultural Communications, 1979), which was selected for \"Best Titles of 1979\" by Library Journal and included in the Pushcart Prize V: The Best of the Small Presses; \"Yugoslav Fantastic Prose\" (Proex, 1991), the first anthology of Yugoslav supernatural tales in English; and \"Yugoslavia: Crisis and Disintegration\" (Plyroma Publishing Co., 1994).\n\nBaron Mihailo Mikasinović, who was instrumental in opening Serbian schools in Krajina in the 18th century; Stefan Mikasinović, a teacher of Dositej Obradović and a prime mover of the Serbian cultural rebirth in the period of Enlightenment; and his father Sava Mikasinovich inspired, to a large extent, the author's scholarly activities.\n\n"}
{"id": "58708416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58708416", "title": "Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act of 2018", "text": "Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act of 2018\n\nThe Build the Wall, Enforce the Law Act of 2018 () is a United States Congress bill to fund President Donald Trump's border wall along the Mexico–United States border and to follow federal immigration law. Estimated at $23.4 billion, the bill, along with the $1.6 billion from the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, would amount to the $25 billion projected to complete the larger and fortified wall. The bill was introduced on October 12, 2018 by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, who stated that \"President Trump’s election was a wakeup call to Washington. The American people want us to build the wall and enforce the law. Maintaining strong borders is one of the basic responsibilities of any nation. For too long, America has failed in this responsibility.\"\n"}
{"id": "34273914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34273914", "title": "Bustan Birke", "text": "Bustan Birke\n\nBustan Birke or Boustan el Birke is a Heavy Neolithic archaeological site of the Qaraoun culture that is located southeast of Kefraya, Lebanon.\n\nThe site was found in a vineyard by Lorraine Copeland and Frank Skeels in 1966. Heavy Neolithic materials recovered resembled those from Kefraya with an increased proportion of lighter tools. Large flakes, picks, large scrapers and choppers made on discoid cores were found, most frequently in chert-like flint or silicious grey limestone. Other forms found included a grattoir de côté and a nose-scraper typical of the Upper Paleolithic.\n\nAnother tell was found to the northwest of the site, opposing the road to the village but had been destroyed by the building of a villa so that only Roman material could be found among the debris.\n"}
{"id": "50512545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50512545", "title": "Democracy or Demo Crazy", "text": "Democracy or Demo Crazy\n\nDemocracy or DemoCrazy is a political satire novel wrote by Seyyed Mahdi Shojaee in Persian and translated to English by Caroline Croskery. Democracy or DemoCrazy was published by Candle and Fog Publishing in 2014. This book also published by Createspace Publishing in 2015.\n\nThe government has changed from a monarchy to a democracy by order of a king who had ascended to the throne by succession. While the people have now attained the right to vote, the only candidates are the king’s twenty-four sons, who will each serve for terms lasting two years. In the successive reign of each brother, oppression and injustice abound, and they spend their terms feasting, pillaging and plundering the country as much as possible, lining their pockets with enough cash to live out their days in luxury. Each time heading up to the new election, the people take refuge in their wishful thinking that the administration of the “next” prince will make things better. But things never change. The princes had all inherited their grandfather’s first name, “Demo” as a prefix to their names. The king had named his twenty-fifth son who was lacking in both appearance, intelligence and character, Demo C’est Assez (meaning Demo “is enough”) but this last prince became known among the people instead as Demo Crazy because of his devious mind and volatile behavior. In an effort to deny any of the twenty-four brothers a second chance at the throne, the people finally decide to vote for prince number twenty-five, Demo Crazy, who is in no way considered qualified for the position. The people actually do not believe that he will win, but they vote for him because they believe that he will most likely be the least brutal, and less of a tyrant than any of the other brothers. Demo Crazy forms a circle of cohorts and enacts his own Demo Crazian principles which consist of a combination of oppression and deception of the masses. He embarks upon a mission to destroy the country, playing off his actions as a “service” to the people. As it turns out, he is really in fact an enemy agent, who after ultimately fleeing his own country and ta king refuge in enemy lands, surrenders his nation to them. The behavior and documented speeches of Demo Crazy are truly astonishing, and even more unusual are the laws and regulations he exercised in ruling over his country. The question of whether or not the standard and conventional democracy in the world today is predicated upon the principles and methods that Demo Crazy carried out in this book is presented only as food for thought and not as a steadfast claim. The answer to this question will be left for the reader to decide.\n\nSeyyed Mahdi Shojaee was born on August 1960 in Tehran. He is famous for his outstanding books on spiritual themes. After obtaining his high school diploma in mathematics, Shojaee entered the Dramatic Arts Faculty where he was conferred a Bachelor's Degree in Dramatic Literature. Simultaneously, he studied Political Science at Tehran University's Faculty of Law and Political Science, but left his studies unfinished to pursue a career in writing.\n\nCaroline Croskery was born in the United States and moved to Iran at the age of twenty-one. She holds a Bachelor’s Degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in Iranian Studies. For many years she has been active in three fields of specialization: Language Teaching, Translation and Interpretation, and Voiceover Acting. She has taught English at the Iran Language Institute in Iran, translated feature films for subtitling at Farabi Cinema and Hozeh Honari, and performed actor dubbing of Persian films into English at IRIB, Sahar. Having lived in Iran for thirteen years, she returned to the US and began a ten-year career as a Persian-language interpreter for the Los Angeles County Superior Courts. She is an accomplished voiceover talent, and currently continues her voiceover career in both English and Persian.\n\n"}
{"id": "40804528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40804528", "title": "Douglas Duckworth", "text": "Douglas Duckworth\n\nDouglas S. Duckworth (born 1971) is an American academic working in the field of Buddhist Philosophy and Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nDouglas Duckworth currently holds a position at Temple University in the Department of Religion and has previously taught at Kathmandu University. He is an associate editor of the \"Journal of Buddhist Philosophy\", and has served on steering committees at the American Academy of Religion.\n\nMipam and his school.\n\n"}
{"id": "19345052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19345052", "title": "Duris, Lebanon", "text": "Duris, Lebanon\n\nDuris, Dūris, or Dûris (), formally Doris and also known by its French spelling Douris, is a village located approximately . southwest of Baalbek in the Bekaa Valley, Lebanon. It is the site of a 13th-century Muslim shrine and a necropolis from the late Roman Imperial period that is currently undergoing archaeological investigation.\n\nThe Qubbat Duris was built in  1243 ( 641) during the Ayyubid era. Its sarcophagus was raised or left standing to serve as a mihrab, helping to direct prayer towards Mecca. Its columns were probably removed from the ruins of nearby Baalbek and are assembled haphazardly, one being upside-down.\n\nAnother archaeological site which is not on the tell near the village exists southwest of Duris at the north of a vineyard that can be reached via a track from the road to Baalbek. This site was found to contain both Shepherd Neolithic and Heavy Neolithic material together, being unusual in this respect. It was found by M. Billaux in 1957 who showed it to two archaeologists who were also members of the Society of Jesus, Henri Fleisch and Maurice Tallon. The Shepherd Neolithic material was unpatinated and appeared similar to that of Maakne. The larger pieces were patinated to white, appearing to represent different periods. Three Levallois flakes were found in 1966 by Lorraine Copeland.\n\nDue to urban expansion, the area is now inhabited by 14,000 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47238886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47238886", "title": "Enterprise legal management", "text": "Enterprise legal management\n\nEnterprise legal management (ELM) is a practice management strategy of corporate legal departments, insurance claims departments, and government legal and contract management departments.\n\nELM developed during the 1990s in response to increased corporate demands for accountability, transparency, and predictability, and employs software to manage internal legal documents and workflows, electronic billing and invoicing, and to guide decision-making through reporting and analytics.\n\nStill an evolving term, ELM is a recognized management discipline and a strategic objective of general counsel. Some have argued that ELM falls within the broader category of corporate governance, risk, and compliance (GRC); others maintain that ELM and GRC are separate entities along a continuum.\n\nSeparate but related technologies include information governance, electronic discovery, legal hold, contract management, corporate secretary, and board of directors’ communications. ELM software may integrate some or all of these components.\n\nLaw practice management refers to the business aspect of operating a law firm or in-house legal team. Components include economics, workplace communication and management, ethics, and client service.\n\nHistorically, corporate legal spend was considered a “black box” with limited predictability and transparency, making it difficult for corporate legal teams to parse differences of efficiency and cost among outside firms, or to benchmark firm performance against previously hired counsel.\n\nSeveral factors led to a shift away from traditional, low-technology solutions and toward ELM, most notably the expansion of the Internet during the 1990s and subsequent development of Software as a service (SaaS) platforms. Within legal departments, factors included greater regulatory compliance risk, smaller budgets, and board member demands for greater accountability, predictability, and transparency.\n\nOver time, the demand for budgetary information, including metrics such as the ratio of legal spend to total enterprise revenue, extended beyond board members to include other stakeholders. Corporate legal departments were positioned as the next frontier of corporate efficiency and risk management, and encouraged to operate as a true business partner. This created pressure to reduce costs and, when possible, generate revenue for the larger enterprise.\n\nDepartments’ varied sizes and responsibilities created a range of practice management needs. A legal department with a small number of in-house attorneys might oversee thousands of cases managed by outside counsel, while a large internal legal department could handle most cases in-house. Smaller departments focused on management of workflow, collaboration, and spend management; larger departments had greater needs for internal matter management, attorney utilization, and document management.\n\nThe first electronic transitions were to generic matter management applications, which replaced paper files as the system of record.\n\nInitial enterprise resource planning systems did not meet the specific needs of legal departments. External legal costs presented unique management challenges because of the billable-hour model and unpredictable labor requirements. Software specialization integrated matter management and preexisting, internal billing software. This integration provided the opportunity to meet management demands for increased communication and information from within corporate legal departments. Ultimately, it extended further to combine legal information with finance, compliance, and risk-management departments.\n\nThese developments also presented risks to enterprise-wide information management. Specialized software generated the potential for conflicts between company‐wide enterprise solutions and the ELM systems of in-house legal departments. Additionally, maintaining data security was and remains a preeminent concern, especially for SaaS-based ELM platforms. One in four chief legal officers (CLOs) reported a data breach during 2013–15, with the health-care industry especially vulnerable.\n\nThe expansion of ELM as a practice management strategy was fostered by the growth of ELM software. That growth, in turn, was made possible through the expansion of the Internet and adoption of SaaS platforms across a wide range of industries. Total revenue of all SaaS providers accelerated into the 2010s, with the International Data Corporation (IDC) forecasting revenue to grow from $22.6 billion to $50.8 billion during 2014–18.\n\nELM software primarily supports matter management and electronic billing, with derived analytics and reporting guiding legal department business processes. As of 2013, the maturity level of the industry was characterized as early mainstream, with market penetration of less than 20%.\n\nA Blue Hill Research report stated that economic motivations have encouraged adoption, with an average return on investment of 766%; median spend contraction of 4.5% from automated processing and rejection of nonconforming invoices; and median recurring annual spend reduction of 4% from use of analytics to support data-driven spend management.\n\nVariables affecting the purchase of ELM software include considerations of license type, usage scope, maintenance and support, installation location, and license fee calculation. Vendors employ a range of licensing practices, with no model inherently advantaged or disadvantaged.\n\nMatter management includes the storage and retrieval of all data related to matters handled by a legal department, including the creation, revision, approval, and consumption of legal documents. Matter management is used to facilitate document collaboration internally and with outside counsel. In complex legal matters such as mass tort litigation, ELM software provides matter management capabilities such as batch uploading of invoices to expedite review and approval.\n\nElectronic billing provides a centralized repository for legal bills and invoices, and a method to deliver those bills securely for review and payment. ELM software integrates with internal electronic billing software through the Legal Electronic Data Exchange Standard (LEDES) format, which has standardized the transfer of legal data. Development of LEDES in the late 1990s was supplemented by the American Bar Association’s creation of Uniform Task-Based Management System (UTBMS) to establish consistent coding of services by outside counsel.\n\nElectronic billing automates review for compliance errors, allocation to cost centers, and routing for approval. Independent research suggests that it reduces costs by decreasing manual labor and paper costs.\n\nMatter management and electronic billing data collected by ELM software is used to generate reports and provide analytics that influence business process management within legal departments.\n\nAccording to a Gartner survey, CLOs increasingly focus on regulatory compliance, customer and stakeholder satisfaction, and risk management. Efforts to reduce legal spend center on the reduction of outside counsel costs, achieved through the negotiation of alternative fee arrangements, increased reliance on internal counsel, and convergence of outside counsel. Use of flat fees for entire matters grew from 12 to 20% during 2013–15, with larger legal departments—those serving companies with at least $4 billion in annual revenue—more than twice as likely to use a flat fee structure compared to companies with less than $100 million in annual revenue.\nLegal departments use analytics to inform these budgeting and forecasting decisions, with the selection of outside law firms based on tradeoffs between cost and attorney performance. Internal historical billing data and industry benchmarks identify trends and differences among providers, and average fees associated with matter types. Some ELM software vendors offer comparative metrics harvested from subscribers.\n\nVendors come from one of two backgrounds: content provision or software development. Some vendors specialize in ELM software, while others include ELM software as part of a broader suite of legal software. SaaS-based and on-premises solutions exist, although many on-premises providers have shifted to SaaS-based models or added SaaS-based options.\n\nMultiple acquisitions occurred within the industry during 2011–15. In 2011 Bottomline Technologies acquired Allegiant Systems; in 2014 Wolters Kluwer, owner of TyMetrix, acquired competitor Datacert; and in 2015 Mitratech purchased Houston-based Bridgeway Software and EAG's CaseTrack.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16790280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16790280", "title": "Ethnozoology", "text": "Ethnozoology\n\nEthnozoology is the study of the past and present interrelationships between human cultures and the animals in their environment. It includes classification and naming of zoological forms, cultural knowledge and use of wild and domestic animals. It is one of the main subdisciplines of ethnobiology and shares many methodologies and theoretical frameworks with ethnobotany.\n\nEthnozoology is the study of human and animal interaction. Ethnobiology includes ethnobotany, which concerns the study of human-plant relationships and ethnozoology. Ethnozoology focuses explicitly on human-animal relationships and knowledge humans have acquired concerning the Earth's fauna. Ethnozoological study concerns the significance of this knowledge to our understanding of the roles played by animals in human society. Faunal resources play a variety of roles in human life throughout history, and their importance to human beings is not only utilitarian but cultural, religious, artistic, and philosophical. Ethnozoology can be understood broadly, from ecological, cognitive, and symbolic perspectives. Human knowledge about natural faunal resources entails sensing, recognizing, classifying, living things. Ethnozoology is a discipline that connects scientific methods to traditional systems of knowledge and cultural beliefs.\n\nIn a broader context, ethnozoology and its companion discipline, ethnobotany, contribute to the larger science of ethnobiology. The history of ethnobiology is divided into three periods. The pre-classical period, which began around 1860, focused on collecting information about humans' use of resources, while the classical period, which began in 1954, produced anthropological studies on linguistics and biological classifications. The current period, or post-classical period, has been described as a meeting of social science and the study of natural resources.\n\nGiven the profound human influence on faunal biodiversity, wildlife conservation planning is becoming increasingly urgent. It is widely acknowledged that environmental health is important to human health, and biodiversity loss can have both indirect and direct negative effects on human wellbeing. The close link between human health and ecological/faunal health is substantiated with five important concepts: animals cause and disseminate disease for humans and vice versa, animals can be guards of human health, animals are used in traditional medicine practices throughout the world, animals are a source of drugs and treatments in human diseases, and animals are used in medical research.\n\nSociology has been slow to explore ethnozoology and grant it credibility. The study of ethnozoology is important because policy makers and concerned citizens are too often left to be informed only by animal advocates or biomedical researchers, both of which are inherently biased. Animals provide humans with a better understanding of ourselves, and how we think and act toward animals has the potential to reveal our attitudes toward other people and social order. Evidence of this can be seen in the ways that animal images may at times be expressing underlying racism: \"the most damning testimony given by accused police at the Rodney King trial involved characterization of King as a 'gorilla'; during the Gulf War Saddam Hussein was described in the American press as a 'rat'; and the actions of people in the Los Angeles riots were likened by the media commentators to 'packs of vicious animals'\".\n\nSociology is a science concerned with groups and group formation, including those facing structural and interpersonal oppression, suffering, and vulnerability. Sub-fields in this area include African Americans studies, women's studies, and gay/lesbian studies. However, not much attention or legitimacy is awarded animal studies as a sub-field. Modern use of animals in the developed world, especially in the United States, can be characterized by exploitation, domination, and oppression. Animal cruelty and abuse is not only present in the industrial farming of livestock, but also in such circumstances as dog fighting, cow tipping, horse racing, circus acts, and other entertainment industries and practices. Furthermore, animals are often victims and pawns used in domestic violence. The widespread abuse of animals in modern society is important for sociology because it involves an entrenched assumption about the connection between cruelty toward animals and violence directed and human beings. Some research has even suggested ways in which the human-animal interaction can challenge dominant sociological theories about the self.\n\nAnthropology has done more to study ethnozoology in terms of the history of the function of animals in non-industrialized societies and the role that animals play symbolically and religiously in different cultures around the world. The domestication process has been a chief concern for anthropologists, whose interests are in the history of human desire to understand animals, enslave them, and harness their power. Animal-derived products have been used especially for food, but also for clothing, tools, toys, and for medicinal and magic-religious purposes. Many cultures associate strong supernatural powers between the animal and human worlds, including mythologies and connections with totemic, ancestral, or magical animals and animal-gods.\n\nAnimals are given symbolic meaning, as in the western association of black cats with poor luck. Biological knowledge varies according to cultural and traditional knowledge and experiences. People share a basic way of comprehending the natural world based on common evolutionary history, and this foundation connects scientific biology with its historical roots in different cultures. The evolutionary perspective on human cognition and affect indicates some degree of universality in perception and decision-making with regard to the natural world and its fauna. The interaction between these aspects of psychology, biodiversity of the Earth's wildlife, and the unique social, cultural, and economic contexts within which humans interact and develop produces cultural diversity. Paleoanthropological studies suggest that linguistic approaches to ethnobiology have only recently evolved in the context of human history, which suggests that these linguistic approaches only provide a partial understanding to how humans perceive and engage with the natural world around them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30110670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30110670", "title": "European Journal of English Studies", "text": "European Journal of English Studies\n\nThe European Journal of English Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal focusing on English language, literature and culture, established in 1997 and published by Routledge. It is the official journal of the European Society for the Study of English. The current editors-in-chief are Martin A. Kayman, Angela Locatelli, and Ansgar Nünning. The journal appears three times a year and the individual issues are devoted to specific topics, e.g.:\nThe aim of the journal is to reflect the multicultural perspective characterising the current state of English studies research in Europe, while encouraging dialogue and not avoiding controversial topics.\n"}
{"id": "46977606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46977606", "title": "Folk-Tales of Bengal", "text": "Folk-Tales of Bengal\n\nFolk-Tales of Bengal is a collection of folk tales and fairy tales of Bengal written by Lal Behari Dey. The book was published in 1883. The illustrations by Warwick Goble were added in 1912. All these stories were passed from generation to generation for centuries.\n\nThis list represents the 1912 Contents (page xi) that is displayed in small caps.\n\n"}
{"id": "32383423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32383423", "title": "Gender, Institutions and Development Database", "text": "Gender, Institutions and Development Database\n\nThe OECD Gender, Institutions and Development (GID) Database, or GID-DB, contains more than 60 data indicators of gender equality. The GID-DB was introduced in 2006 by the OECD Development Centre to provide a data tool to help researchers and policy makers determine and analyze obstacles to women's social and economic development. It provides these gender-related data for up to 162 countries from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe, thereby covering all regions and country-income-categories of the world.\n\nThe GID Database is structured around key traditional measurements of gender equality, including \"Education\" (data such as literacy rates and school enrollments for each gender), \"Health\" (such as percentage of births attended by skilled personnel), \"Economic status\" and \"Political status\" (such as percentage of legislators for each gender). The GID-DB also introduced non-traditional data indicators for \"social institutions\" such as cultural practices and social norms which affect gender equality. These new measurements are thoroughly presented here, in the next section. By providing new indicator information on these formerly \"hidden\" instances of gender discrimination, the database complements other data compilations such as the UNDP's Human Development Report, the World Bank Group's \"GenderStats\" database, or the World Economic Forum's \"Global Gender Gap Report\".\n\nThe GID database groups its 12 social-institution indicators into 5 different categories, below. Each of these 12 indicators is a cultural and traditional practice that impacts upon \"gender equality\". Each indicator is coded between 0 (indicating no discrimination, i.e., equality) and 1 (indicating high discrimination, or high inequality) depending on the extent of discrimination and the percentage of females that suffer from its application, for each specific social institution. As an example, consider Inheritance, the second social institution or indicator below: If 10 percent of the female population in a country report restricted access to inheritance, with daughters inheriting only half the amount granted to sons, the indicator for inheritance would be 10 percent x 0.50 = 0.05, nearly equality. Values above 0 can be too complicated to describe briefly, in which case they are omitted below.\n\nFamily Code:\nCivil Liberties:\nPhysical Integrity:\nSon Preference: \nOwnership Rights:\n\nThe GID database itself is the source for these brief descriptions. Namely, the GID-DB includes a complete description for each data indicator, called its metadata, which stays hidden until one clicks on that indicator's little red \"i\" – the working definitions for the data indicators are easily \"available\" online right with the data.\nThe GID-DB has been statistically applied toward identifying the factors which determine how women's labour-force participation varies across the database countries. The reported results suggest that the social-institution factors or indicators can outweigh the other traditional indicators such as income per capita. The GID database including its social-institution indicators thus may be useful in solving various economic development problems, by offering a more complete set of indicators from which to choose for answering policy questions or for other research topics.\n\nThe UNDP (UN Development Programme) publishes two composite indexes of \"gender equality\", based on traditional indicators (such as the above-mentioned ones in the GID-DB), namely the Gender Empowerment Measure, or GEM, and the Gender-related Development Index or GDI. \n\nIn 2009, similarly the \"OECD Development Centre\" introduced the \"Social Institutions and Gender Index\" (SIGI), which is described in its own article. The SIGI is exclusively based on the 12 new social institutions above, their 5 groups providing the SIGI's 5 components. Given its exclusive focus on social institutions, the \"SIGI\" is a highly specialized measure of gender equality – and should not be confused with the \"GEM\" and the \"GDI\".\n\nThe SIGI and its 5 components were added in 2009 to the GID-DB, readily accessible (as described below) as a specific part of the latter.\n\nThese data can be accessed via the OECD website StatExtracts (GID-DB), whose sidebar has all of the GID database's components selected and ready to click on, with its 12 \"Social Institution\" indicators already on display in the main part of the screen. More information such as working definitions of the data, plus the country notes, can be displayed (or hidden again) by clicking on the little red i's. \n\nMany other OECD datasets are listed in the sidebar, in addition to the GID-DB data which are the subject of this article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32304400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32304400", "title": "General History of Latin America", "text": "General History of Latin America\n\nThe General History of Latin America is part of UNESCO’s General and Regional Histories Collection. The publication seeks to contribute to mutual understanding and dialogue between cultures and civilizations. This series seeks to illustrate the encounters between cultures across history and their respective contributions to the general progress of humankind. This is done through the promotion of a pluralist vision of history.\n\nThe \"General History of Latin America\" is a new approach to the historical evolution of Latin America. It sets out to capture both the unity and the diversity of the region and outlines the great contributions made by Latin American societies (indigenous and others) to the progress of humanity. Latin America has become one of the world’s major geocultural regions. Its importance on the world cultural scene is beyond dispute. The region is recognized for its ongoing and increasingly successful efforts to develop as a group of modern, democratic societies. Latin America as a comprehensive entity is an historical reality.\n\nCoordinated and directed by UNESCO and an International Scientific Committee consisting of 240 prominent researchers and scholars from all over the world, the outcome of this project has been the publication of nine volumes of comprehensive studies and information on ideas, civilizations, societies, and institutions covering the development of Latin American societies from the pre-Columbian era to the twentieth century. Using methodological instruments of current historiography, these volumes present indigenous Latin American societies, their contacts with European culture, the colonial orders, and the participation of African communities in the region to highlight the history of inter-continental interactions in Latin America.\n\nPublished in Spanish and launched in 1983, the fundamental aim of the General History of Latin America, is to help heighten the historical awareness of the region.\n\nAs a central part of its mandate, UNESCO is committed to promoting mutual understanding and to facilitating discussion and dialogue amongst peoples and nations. The General History of Latin America makes a significant contribution to this objective. This project was initially suggested in the recommendations of a meeting of experts convened by the Director-General of UNESCO in Lima, Peru, in 1967. In 1983 a Drafting Committee of 21 members (two-thirds of whom were specialists from Latin America) was established and the project was completed in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18423471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18423471", "title": "Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel bibliography", "text": "Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel bibliography\n\nThe following list of works by German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831).\n\nHegel is cited—unless otherwise specified—on the basis of his output according w Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Markus Michel, Frankfurt a. M.: Suhrkamp, 1979. Prior to 1979, see below. Additions such as \"A\" or \"B\" refer to annotations added to the original text.\n\nBand or the abbreviation Bd. is the German word meaning the volume number of the work.\n\nThe \"1817 Encyclopaedia\" contained only outline notes for students, called \"Zusatz\" (\"addition\"). They are often combined with the three books of Hegel's later work called \"System der Philosophie I, II, III,\" the combinations being called the Encyclopaedia I, II and III.\n\nWerke in 20 Bänden (complete works in 20 volumes), eds., E. Moldenhauer and K. M. Michel (Suhrkamp, 1969–1971).\n\nOther volume numbers exist for the different editions of his complete works that were published at various times over the past two centuries:\n\n\"Vollständige Ausgabe\" (complete edition)\n\n\n\"Sämtliche Werke\" (complete works), ed., H. Glockner\n\n\n\"Sämtliche Werke\", eds., Georg Lasson, später J. Hoffmeister.\n\n\n\"Gesammelte Werke – Akademie-Ausgabe\" (Academy edition)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA number of student lecture notes from Hegel's classes remain untranslated:\n\n"}
{"id": "55273596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55273596", "title": "Glossa (journal)", "text": "Glossa (journal)\n\nGlossa: A Journal of General Linguistics is a peer-reviewed open access academic journal covering general linguistics. It was established in 2016 and is published by Ubiquity Press. The editor-in-chief is Johan Rooryck (Leiden University). The journal is funded by LingOA and the Open Library of Humanities.\n\nIn October 2015, the editors and editorial board of \"Lingua\" resigned en masse to protest their inability to come to an agreement with Elsevier regarding fair pricing models for open access publishing.\n\nThe former editors and board of \"Lingua\" started a new journal, while Elsevier continues publishing \"Lingua\" with new editors and a new editorial board. The original editorial board of \"Lingua\" is supported in their protest by the Association of Research Libraries, the American Association of State Colleges and Universities, the American Council on Education, the Canadian Association of Research Libraries, the \"Confederation of Open Access Repositories\", Educause, and the Scholarly Publishing and Academic Resources Coalition.\n\n\"Glossa\" has been cited as a predecessor for \"Algebraic Combinatorics\", a mathematics journal established under similar circumstances when the editorial board of Springer's \"Journal of Algebraic Combinatorics\" resigned \"en masse\" in 2017. The editorial board criticized Springer for \"double-dipping\", that is, charging large subscription fees to libraries in addition to high fees for authors who wished to make their publications open access.\n\n"}
{"id": "14531151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14531151", "title": "Golden Hat of Schifferstadt", "text": "Golden Hat of Schifferstadt\n\nThe Golden Hat of Schifferstadt () was discovered in a field near the town of Schifferstadt in Southwest Germany in 1835. It is a Bronze Age artefact made of thin sheet gold and served as the external decoration of a head-dress, probably of an organic material, with a brim and a chin-strap. The hat is on display in the Historical Museum of the Palatinate in Speyer. It is one of a group of four similar artifacts known as the Golden hats, all cone-shaped Bronze Age head-dresses made of sheet gold.\n\nThe Schifferstadt specimen was the oldest of the group of four known Golden hats, The Schifferstadt hat was the first to be discovered. After the example from Berlin, it is the best-preserved one, fully preserved with the exception of a small part of the brim. \n\nThree associated bronze axes and a comparison with other Late Bronze Age metwalwork date the Schifferstadt Hat to \"circa\" 1,400-1,300 BC. \n\nThe hat, like its counterparts, is assumed to have served as a religious insignia for the deities or priests of a sun-cult common in Bronze Age Europe. The hats are also suggested to have served calendrical functions.\n\nThe Schifferstadt Hat is a 350 g gold cone, subdivided into horizontal ornamental bands, applied in the repoussé technique. It has a blunt, undecorated tip. The shaft is short and squat, with a distinct widening and a wide brim at the bottom. The hat is 29.6 cm high and has a lower diameter of about 18 cm. The brim is 4.5 cm wide. At its base the gold sheet was wound around a copper wire (now lost) for extra stability.\n\nAlong its whole length the hat is subdivided and decorated by rows of horizontal symbols and bands. Five different stamps and a chisel or liner were used to create the horizontal bands of repeated stamped symbols, following a systematic scheme. \n\nThe optical separation of the individual ornamental bands was achieved by ring ribs or bands around the whole external face of the hat. The symbols in the bands are mostly disk and circle motifs, usually with an internal disk or buckle, surrounded by up to six concentric circles. \n\nStriking are two bands with eye-like motifs, resembling similar symbols on the hats of Ezelsdorf and Berlin. Unlike the other known examples, the cone's top is not decorated with a star but left entirely unembellished.\n\nThe illustration shows the scheme of the shape and composition of the hat, as well as number of ornamental zones and of the number of stamps used for each.\n\nThe Golden Hat of Schifferstadt was discovered on the 29th of April 1835, during agricultural work in a field named \"Reuschlache\", one km north of Schifferstadt. On the following day the find was handed to officials at Speyer, then part of the Kingdom of Bavaria. \n\nThe known circumstances suggest a cult-related deposition: The hat was buried upright, about 60 cm deep. Its top reached to just below the ground surface. When found the hat stood on a slab of back-burnt clay. It was filled with earth or an earth-ashes mixture, of which nothing remains. \n\nThe clay slab, which crumbled during its recovery and is now entirely lost, sat on a one-inch layer of sand, placed in a rectangular pit. Three bronze axes were leaning against the cone.\n\nThe hat is hammered from a single piece of gold alloy of 86.37% Au, 13% Ag, 0.56% Cu and 0.07% Sn. Its average thickness is 0.2 to 0.25 cm, except the brim, which is far thinner, at 0.08 to 0-13 mm. The latter may suggest that it had been re-worked at some stage.\n\nIf the amount of gold used for the hat was moulded into a square bar, it would only measure 2.5 cm square. Such a bar or lump was hammered to the thickess of a modern sheet of printing paper during its production.\n\nBecause of the tribological characteristics of the material, it tends to harden with increasing deformation (see ductility), increasing its potential to crack. To avoid cracking, an extremely even deformation was necessary. Additionally, the material had to be softened by repeatedly heating it to a temperature of at least 750 °C. \n\nSince gold alloy has a relatively low melting point of \"circa\" 960 °C, a very careful temperature control and an isothermal heating process were required, so as to avoid melting any of the surface. For this, the Bronze Age artisans used a charcoal fire or oven similar to those used for pottery. The temperature could only be controlled through the addition of oxygen, using a bellows. \n\nIn the course of its further manufacture, the hat was embellished with rows of radial ornamental bands, chased into the metal. To make this possible, it was filled with a putty or pitch based on tree resin and wax, traces of which have survived. The thin gold leaf was structured by chasing: stamp-like tools or moulds depicting the individual symbols were repeatedly pressed into (or rolled along) the exterior of the gold.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44087726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44087726", "title": "Harriet Malinowitz", "text": "Harriet Malinowitz\n\nHarriet Malinowitz is an American academic scholar specializing in lesbian and gay issues in higher education, women's studies, the rhetoric of Zionism and Palestine, and writing theory and pedagogy.\n\nA Professor of English at Long Island University, Malinowitz earned her Ph.D. from New York University.\n\nNotable works by Malinowitz include \"Textual Orientiations: Lesbian and Gay Students and the Making of Discourse Communities\" (Heinemann, 1995), an ethnographic study focusing on the community emerging in a college course that examines lesbian and gay experience. \"Textual Orientations\" highlights the productive intersections of two academic fields: rhetoric and composition and lesbian and gay studies while providing a pedagogical model that values the \"vantage point of the social margin.\"\nMalinowitz is also a writer of lesbian stand-up comedy, most notably for her partner Sara Cytron's shows \"A Dyke Grows in Brooklyn\" and \"Take My Domestic Partner--Please!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33061639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33061639", "title": "Historical Reflections", "text": "Historical Reflections\n\nHistorical Reflections (fr: \"Réflexions Historiques\") is a peer-reviewed academic journal of history published by Berghahn Books. It publishes articles in both English and French and was established in 1974. The editor-in-chief is Linda Mitchell.\n\nThe journal was published by the University of Waterloo from 1974 until 1989, then by Alfred University's Division of Human Studies until 2008, when it became a joint publication of Alfred University and Berghahn Books. After financial difficulties, the journal is now published solely by Berghahn Books. The journal was edited first by Stanley K. Johannesen (University of Waterloo), then by Stuart Campbell for most of the time after it moved to Alfred University. Daniel Gordon joined Campbell as the co-editor in 2003, until Mitchell became editor in 2005.\n\n\"Historical Reflections/Reflexions Historiques\" is indexed and abstracted in:\n"}
{"id": "451627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451627", "title": "Ifrit", "text": "Ifrit\n\nIfrit, also spelled as efreet, efrite, ifreet, afreet, afrite and afrit (Arabic: ': , pl ': ) are supernatural creatures in some Middle Eastern stories. In Islam, this term refers to the most powerful and dangerous Jinn.\n\nThe Ifrits are a class of infernal djinn and also held to be a death spirit drawn to the life-force (or blood) of a murdered victim seeking revenge on the murderer. As with ordinary djinn, an Ifrit may be either a believer or an unbeliever, good or evil, but it is most often depicted as a wicked, ruthless, and evil being; a powerful Shaitan. Ifrits are believed to inhabit the levels of the underworld or desolated places on the surface, such as in ruins or caves.\n\nAccording to Islamic sources, the Ifrit has a fiery appearance with flames leaping from his mouth. It may be a danger to people, but can be destroyed if someone recites a Du'a (Islamic prayer) near it.\n\nIn folklore, they are commonly thought to take the shape of the deceased at the moment of death, or the appearance of the Shaitan. In the Islamic traditions of Cirebon, the Afarit are known as \"Mrekayangan\", a subcategory of demons. But their origin is different from the other demons, since the Mrekayangan appear after someone died improperly, while the demons are descendants of Iblis.\n\nThe word Ifrit seems to be of Arabic origin. Traditionally, Arab philologists trace the derivation of the word to (\"\", \"to rub with dust\"). Some Western philologists, such as Johann Jakob Hess and Karl Vollers, attribute it to Middle Persian \"afritan\" which corresponds to Modern Persian (to create).\n\nAn Ifrit is mentioned in the Qur'an, Sura An-Naml (27:38-40): [Solomon] said, \"O assembly [of jinn], which of you will bring me her [the Queen of Sheba's] throne before they come to me in submission?\" An Ifrit (strong one) from the jinn said: \"I will bring it to you before you rise from your place. And verily, I am indeed strong, and trustworthy for such work.\" One with whom was knowledge of the Scripture said: \"I will bring it to you within the twinkling of an eye!\" Then when Solomon saw it placed before him, he said: \"This is by the Grace of my Lord - to test me whether I am grateful or ungrateful! And whoever is grateful, truly, his gratitude is for (the good of) his own self; and whoever is ungrateful, (he is ungrateful only for the loss of his own self). Certainly, my Lord is Rich (Free of all needs), Bountiful.\"\n\nAccording to a hadith from Bukhari, an Ifrit tried to interrupt the prayers of Muhammed. Muhammed overpowered the Ifrit and wanted to fasten him to a pillar so that everyone can see him in the morning. Then, he remembered the statement of Solomon and he dismissed the Ifrit.\n\nAccording to a narration about Muhammeds Night Journey, an Ifrit sought Muhammed with a fiery torch. To get rid of him, he asked Jibraʾil for help. Jibraʾil then taught him how to seek refuge from God, whereupon the Ifrit get away from him.\n\nAn Ifrit, meeting Imam Ali, is mentioned in different Shi'i accounts. According to the Shabak community, Imam Ali became incensed against an Ifrit for his unbelieving. Consequently, he bound the Ifrit in chains. The Ifrit appealed to all prophets since Adam for his release. But no one was able to free him, until Muhammed found him and took the Ifrit to Imam Ali. He freed him on the condition that he would profess his faith for Islam.\n\nIn the Qisas Al-Anbiya (Stories of the Prophets), Afarit perform the orders of Iblis to plague Job. Each of these Afarit are endowed with specific abilities such as turning into a firy storm or killing by shouting out.\n\nIn \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in a tale called \"The Porter and the Young Girls\", there is a narrative about a prince who is attacked by pirates and takes refuge with a woodcutter. The prince finds an underground chamber in the forest leading to a beautiful woman who has been kidnapped by an Ifrit. The prince sleeps with the woman and both are attacked by the jealous Ifrit, who changes the prince into an ape. Later a princess restores the prince and fights a pitched battle with the Ifrit, who changes shape into various animals, fruit, and fire until being reduced to cinders. In the book, the word is used interchangeably with \"genie\" and the spirit is malevolent but easily tricked by the protagonist.\n\nThe blind poet Al-Maʿarri mentioned in his narrations, a paradise for \"Afarit\" with \"narrow straits\" and \"dark valleys\".\n\nIn early folklore, the Ifrit is said to be formed from the blood of a murder victim. Driving an unused nail into the blood was supposed to stop their formation. The creatures were reported as being able to take the form of Satan, the murder victim, or even a sandstorm.\n\nAn Ifrit plays a major role as a story element in bollywood film \"\" where the lead character played by Anushka Sharma is the progeny of an Ifrit and human, due to a cult practice. The film was based on a book series called \"An Ember in the Ashes'.\n\nThe trading card game \"\" has featured several \"efreet\" since the earliest expansion sets.\n\nIfrit is a prominent Summon to fight with in the \"Final Fantasy\" video game series. Like their mythological counterparts, Ifrit's are spirits of fire and destruction, almost always appearing as a devilish monster that uses either fire, earth, or both to do damage to either the monster the player is fighting or as a boss against the player himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "32642244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32642244", "title": "Indian aesthetics", "text": "Indian aesthetics\n\nIndian art evolved with an emphasis on inducing special spiritual or philosophical states in the audience, or with representing them symbolically.\n\nThe theory of rasas still forms the aesthetic underpinning of all Indian classical dance and theatre, such as Bharatanatyam, kathak, Kuchipudi, Odissi, Manipuri, Kudiyattam, Kathakali and others. Expressing \"Rasa\" in classical Indian dance form is referred to as Rasa-abhinaya. The \"Nātyasāstra\" carefully delineates the \"bhavas\" used to create each \"rasa\".\n\nThe expressions used in Kudiyattam or Kathakali are extremely exaggerated theatrical expressions. The opposite of this interpretation is Balasaraswathi's school of subtle and understated abhinaya of the devadasis. There were serious public debates when Balasaraswathi condemned Rukmini Devi's puritanistic interpretations and applications of Sringara rasa. The abhinaya of the Melattur style of abhinaya remains extremely rich in variations of the emotions, while the Pandanallur style expressions are more limited in scope.\n\nRasa theory blossoms beginning with the Sanskrit text Nātyashāstra (\"nātya\" meaning \"drama\" and \"shāstra\" meaning \"science of\"), a work attributed to Bharata Muni where the Gods declare that drama is the 'Fifth Veda' because it is suitable for the degenerate age as the best form of religious instruction. The Nātyashāstra presents the aesthetic concepts of rasas and their associated bhāvas in Chapters Six and Seven respectively, which appear to be independent of the work as a whole. Eight rasas and associated bhāvas are named and their enjoyment is likened to savoring a meal: rasa is the enjoyment of flavors that arise from the proper preparation of ingredients and the quality of ingredients.\n\nThe theory of the rasas develops significantly with the Kashmiri aesthetician Ãndandavardhana's classic on poetics, the Dhvanyāloka which introduces the ninth rasa, shānta-rasa as a specifically religious feeling of peace (\"śānta\") which arises from its bhāva, weariness of the pleasures of the world. The primary purpose of this text is to refine the literary concept \"dhvani\" or poetic suggestion, by arguing for the existence of \"rasa-dhvani\", primarily in forms of Sanskrit including a word, sentence or whole work \"suggests\" a real-world emotional state or bhāva, but thanks to aesthetic distance, the sensitive spectator relishes the rasa, the aesthetic flavor of tragedy, heroism or romance.\n\nThe 9th - 10th century master of the religious system known as \"the nondual Shaivism of Kashmir\" (or \"Kashmir Shaivism\") and aesthetician, Abhinavagupta brought rasa theory to its pinnacle in his separate commentaries on the Dhvanyāloka, the Dhvanyāloka-locana (translated by Ingalls, Masson and Patwardhan, 1992) and the Abhinavabharati, his commentary on the Nātyashāstra, portions of which are translated by Gnoli and Masson and Patwardhan. Abhinavagupta offers for the first time a technical definition of rasa which is the universal bliss of the Self or Atman colored by the emotional tone of a drama.\n\nIn the literary compositions, the emotion of Bhakti as a feeling of adoration towards God was long considered only a minor feeling fit only for Stothras, but not capable of being developed into a separate rasa as the sole theme of a whole poem or drama. In the tenth century, it was still struggling, and Aacharya Abhinavagupta mentions Bhakti in his commentary on the Natya Shastra, as an important accessory sentiment of the Shanta Rasa, which he strove with great effort to establish. However, just as Shantha slowly attained a state of primacy that it was considered the Rasa of Rasas, Bhakti also soon began to loom large and despite the lukewarmness of the great run of Alankarikas, had the service of some distinguished advocates, including Tyagaraja. It is the Bhagavata that gave the great impetus to the study of Bhakti from an increasingly aesthetic point of view.\n\nPoets like Kālidāsa were attentive to rasa, which blossomed into a fully developed aesthetic system. Even in contemporary India the term \"rasa\" denoting \"flavor\" or \"essence\" is used colloquially to describe the aesthetic experiences in films.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31363873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31363873", "title": "Indo-Iranian Journal", "text": "Indo-Iranian Journal\n\nIndo-Iranian Journal is a peer-reviewed academic journal focusing on aspects of Indo-Iranian cultures. The journal was started by Jan Willem de Jong and Franciscus Bernardus Jacobus Kuiper in 1957 with Ludwig Alsdorf, Harold Walter Bailey, Louis Renou, Sumitra Mangesh Katre and Daniel H. H. Ingalls on its Editorial Board.\n"}
{"id": "42213243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42213243", "title": "International Association for Hungarian Studies", "text": "International Association for Hungarian Studies\n\nThe International Association for Hungarian Studies is a body supporting research and education relating to Hungarian language, culture and society. As one of its major tasks the association sees the enhancing of cooperation between institutions and forums that contribute to the study of Hungarian Studies in Hungary and worldwide. The association acquaints itself with Hungarian studies-related activities and renders accessible this information. The association has a publication series of its own, which undertakes the publication of articles and monographs and publishes the journal \"Hungarian Studies\". The Congress of Hungarian Studies, organized every five years, brings together 400–500 scholars worldwide. In addition to the congresses, the association organizes several conferences in between the congresses, mainly with the purpose of supporting the doctoral education within Hungarian Studies. Through these conferences the association provides a forum for doctoral students in and outside Hungary.\n\n"}
{"id": "40270793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40270793", "title": "List of works by Gian Lorenzo Bernini", "text": "List of works by Gian Lorenzo Bernini\n\nThe following is a list of works of sculpture, architecture, and painting by the Italian Baroque artist Gian Lorenzo Bernini. The numbering follows Rudolph Wittkower's Catalogue, first published in 1955 in \"Gian Lorenzo Bernini: The Sculptor of the Roman Baroque\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15472386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15472386", "title": "Orlando Deanery Boychoir", "text": "Orlando Deanery Boychoir\n\nThe Orlando Deanery Boychoir and Girls Choir are internationally renowned choirs based in Orlando, Florida. The choirs are open to youth of all religions and backgrounds in grades 3-12.\n\nThe Orlando Deanery Boychoir and Girls Choir are founded on European models and affiliated with the Royal School of Church Music in England. This music outreach program of the Cathedral Church of Saint Luke in downtown Orlando serves the community, nation and world. Performances include religious services, civic festivals, opera and symphony, charity concerts, private parties, weddings, conventions, TV commercials and Disney events, often with prominent local orchestras. While creating beautiful music of the highest standards, the choirs develop musicianship, vocal skills, teamwork, responsibility, leadership, courtesy, respect for other cultures, poise, and professionalism.\n\nTours play an integral part in their musical education, cultural enrichment, and outreach mission. As Cultural Ambassadors of the United States and the City of Orlando, the choirs have toured to Japan, England, Ireland, Wales, Canada, Vienna, Salzburg, Munich, Prague, Washington D.C., New York (and Carnegie Hall three times), Niagara Falls, New England, New Orleans, Florida, the Bahamas, and much of the Southeastern U.S. Tours are funded entirely by fundraising efforts and individual and corporate contributions. The boys and girls also attend Summer Choir Courses of the Royal School of Church Music in America.\n\nThe Orlando Deanery Boychoir and Girls Choir were issued a special invitation by First Lady Michele Obama, and performed in the White House in Washington D.C. for a 2-hour concert during the Christmas holidays of 2011. In August of 2012, during London's Summer Olympics, they presented an Anglican Heritage Tour as the Choir-in-Residence for one week each at both St. Paul's Cathedral, London, and Christ Church Cathedral, Oxford UK. In 2014, they participated in the inaugural American Music Performance Nationals for Children’s and Youth Choirs in New York City at Carnegie Hall, which was their third trip to sing in Carnegie Hall. They also performed at Saint Thomas Episcopal Church in Manhattan and St Paul's Chapel near Ground Zero. In June 2017 they will be in residence at Washington National Cathedral (D.C.) to sing for three services with members of the Orlando Deanery Men's Choir, and St. Luke's Cathedral Choir and Choristers.\n\nThe choir has been under the direction of Canon Benjamin Lane, St. Luke's Cathedral Musician, since 1991.\n\nThe Boychoir was founded in 1981 by then Cathedral Musician Murray Forbes Somerville. The Girls Choir was founded in 1987.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52284425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52284425", "title": "Pabindra Deka", "text": "Pabindra Deka\n\nPabindra Deka is an Asom Gana Parishad politician from Assam. He was elected in Assam Legislative Assembly election in 2016 from Patacharkuchi constituency.\n"}
{"id": "5595253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5595253", "title": "Princess Rosette", "text": "Princess Rosette\n\nPrincess Rosette is a French literary fairy tale written by Madame d'Aulnoy. Andrew Lang included it in \"The Red Fairy Book\".\n\nItalo Calvino included an orally collected tale, \"The King of the Peacocks\", in his \"Italian Folktales\", but observed in the notes that it was clearly a variant on \"Princess Rosette\".\n\nA king and queen, who had two sons, had a daughter as well. All the fairies came to the christening. When the queen pressed them to predict Rosette's future, they said that she might cause great misfortune to her brothers, and even their deaths. The king and queen consulted with a hermit, who advised them to lock Rosette in a tower. They did so, but one day they died, and their sons instantly freed her from it. She marveled at everything, but in particular, at a peacock. When she heard that people sometimes ate them, she declared that she would never marry anyone except the King of the Peacocks, and then she would protect her subjects.\n\nHer brothers, the new king and the prince, set out to find the King of the Peacocks, and at last were directed there by the King of the Mayflies. There, they showed the king Rosette's portrait. He said he would marry her if she was as beautiful, but kill them both if she was not.\n\nWhen the news came, Princess Rosette set out with her nurse. The nurse bribed the boatman to throw the princess, bed and all, with her little dog, into the sea in the middle of the night. The bed was made of Phoenix feathers and floated, but the nurse put her own daughter in the princess's place. The outraged king was about to execute her brothers, who persuaded him to give them seven days to prove their innocence.\n\nWhen the princess woke, she was convinced that the king had decided not to marry her after all, and so had her thrown into the sea. An old man saw her on the shore and brought her to shelter, but saw by her possessions that she was a great lady, and he could only give her meager fare. The princess sent her dog to the best kitchen in town, and the dog stole all the food being cooked for the King of the Peacocks. This happened for several days, until the Prime Minister spied on the kitchen, saw the dog, and followed it. He told the king, and they went to the hut and seized Rosette and the old man. The old man begged for mercy and told the story, and the king realized that this was his bride. He freed her brothers and married her.\n\n"}
{"id": "300181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300181", "title": "Pseudoarchaeology", "text": "Pseudoarchaeology\n\nPseudoarchaeology—also known as alternative archaeology, fringe archaeology, fantastic archaeology, or cult archaeology—refers to interpretations of the past from outside of the archaeological science community, which reject the accepted datagathering and analytical methods of the discipline. These pseudoscientific interpretations involve the use of artifacts, sites or materials to construct scientifically insubstantial theories to supplement the pseudoarchaeologists' claims. Methods include exaggeration of evidence, dramatic or romanticized conclusions, and fabrication of evidence.\n\nThere is not one singular pseudoarchaeological theory, but many different interpretations of the past that are at odds from those developed by persons who know and understand the data. Some of these revolve around the idea that prehistoric and ancient human societies were aided in their development by intelligent extraterrestrial life, an idea propagated by those such as Swiss author Erich von Däniken in books such as \"Chariots of the Gods?\" (1968) and Italian author Peter Kolosimo. Others instead hold that there were human societies in the ancient period that were significantly technologically advanced, such as Atlantis, and this idea has been propagated by figures like Graham Hancock in his \"Fingerprints of the Gods\" (1995).\n\nMany alternative archaeologies have been adopted by religious groups. Fringe archaeological ideas such as archaeocryptography and pyramidology have been embraced by religions ranging from the British Israelites to the theosophists. Other alternative archaeologies include those that have been adopted by members of New Age and contemporary pagan belief systems.\n\nAcademic archaeologists have heavily criticised pseudoarchaeology, with one of the most vocal critics, John R. Cole, characterising it as relying on \"sensationalism, misuse of logic and evidence, misunderstanding of scientific method, and internal contradictions in their arguments\". The relationship between alternative and academic archaeologies has been compared to the relationship between intelligent design theories and evolutionary biology by some archaeologists.\n\nVarious different terms have been employed to refer to these non-academic interpretations of archaeology. During the 1980s, the term \"cult archaeology\" was used by figures like John R. Cole (1980) and William H. Stiebing Jr. (1987). In the 2000s, the term \"alternative archaeology\" began to be instead applied by academics like Tim Sebastion (2001), Robert J. Wallis (2003), Cornelius Holtorf (2006), and Gabriel Moshenka (2008). Garrett F. Fagan and Kenneth Feder (2006) however claimed this term was only chosen because it \"imparts a warmer, fuzzier feel\" that \"appeals to our higher ideals and progressive inclinations\". They argued that the term \"pseudoarchaeology\" was far more appropriate, a term also used by other prominent academic and professional archaeologists such as Colin Renfrew (2006).\n\nOther academic archaeologists have chosen to use other terms to refer to these interpretations. Glyn Daniel, the editor of \"Antiquity\", used the derogative \"bullshit archaeology\", and similarly the academic William H. Stiebing Jr. noted that there were certain terms used for pseudoarchaeology that were heard \"in the privacy of professional archaeologists' homes and offices but which cannot be mentioned in polite society\".\n\nWilliam H. Stiebing Jr. argued that despite their many differences, there were a set of core characteristics that almost all pseudoarchaeological interpretations shared. He believed that because of this, pseudoarchaeology could be categorised as a \"single phenomenon\". He went on to identify three core commonalities of pseudeoarchaeological theories: the unscientific nature of its method and evidence, its history of providing \"simple, compact answers to complex, difficult issues\", and its tendency to present itself as being persecuted by the archaeological establishment, accompanied by an ambivalent attitude towards the scientific ethos of the Enlightenment. This idea that there are core characteristics of pseudoarchaeologies is shared by other academics.\n\nAcademic critics have pointed out that pseudoarchaeologists typically neglect to use the scientific method. Instead of testing the evidence to see what hypotheses it fits, pseudoarchaeologists \"press-gang\" the archaeological data to fit a \"favored conclusion\" that is often arrived at through hunches, intuition, or religious or nationalist dogma. Different pseudoarchaeological groups hold a variety of basic assumptions which are typically unscientific: the Nazi pseudoarchaeologists for instance took the cultural superiority of the ancient Aryan race as a basic assumption, whilst Judeo-Christian fundamentalist pseudoarchaeologists conceive of the Earth as being less than 10,000 years old and Hindu fundamentalist pseudoarchaeologists believe that the \"Homo sapiens\" species is much older than the 200,000 years old it has been shown to be by archaeologists. Despite this, many of pseudoarchaeology's proponents claim that they reached their conclusions using scientific techniques and methods, even when it is demonstrable that they have not.\n\nAcademic archaeologist John R. Cole believed that most pseudoarchaeologists do not understand how scientific investigation works, and that they instead believe it to be a \"simple, catastrophic right versus wrong battle\" between contesting theories. It was because of this failure to understand the scientific method, he argued, that the entire pseudoarchaeological approach to their arguments was faulty. He went on to argue that most pseudoarchaeologists do not consider alternative explanations to that which they want to propagate, and that their \"theories\" were typically just \"notions\", not having sufficient supporting evidence to allow them to be considered \"theories\" in the scientific, academic meaning of the word.\n\nCommonly lacking scientific evidence, pseudoarchaeologists typically use other forms of evidence to support their arguments. For instance, they often make use of \"generalized cultural comparisons\", taking various artefacts and monuments from one society, and highlighting similarities with those of another to support a conclusion that both had a common source—typically an ancient lost civilisation like Atlantis, Mu, or an extraterrestrial influence. This takes the different artefacts or monuments entirely out of their original contexts, something which is anathema to academic archaeologists, for whom context is of the utmost importance.\n\nAnother form of evidence used by a number of pseudoarchaeologists is the interpretation of various myths as reflecting historical events, but in doing so these myths are often taken out of their cultural contexts. For instance, pseudoarchaeologist Immanuel Velikovsky claimed that the myths of migrations and war gods in the Central American Aztec civilisation represented a cosmic catastrophe that occurred in the 7th and 8th centuries BCE. This was criticised by academic archaeologist William H. Stiebing Jr., who noted that such myths only developed in the 12th to the 14th centuries CE, over a millennium after Velikovsky claimed that the events had occurred, and that the Aztec society itself had not even developed by the 7th century BCE.\n\nPseudoarchaeologists typically present themselves as being underdogs facing the much larger archaeological establishment. They often use language which disparages academics and dismisses them as being unadventurous, spending all their time in dusty libraries and refusing to challenge the orthodoxies of the establishment lest they lose their jobs. In some more extreme examples, pseudoarchaeologists have accused academic archaeologists of being members of a widespread conspiracy to hide the truth about history from the public. When academics challenge pseudoarchaeologists and criticise their theories, many pseudoarchaeologists see it as further evidence that their own ideas are right, and that they are simply being suppressed by members of this academic conspiracy.\n\nThe prominent English archaeologist Colin Renfrew admitted that the archaeological establishment was often \"set in its ways and resistant to radical new ideas\" but that this was not the reason why pseudoarchaeological theories were outright rejected by academics. Garrett G. Fagan expanded on this, noting how in the academic archaeological community, \"New evidence or arguments have to be thoroughly scrutinised to secure their validity ... and longstanding, well-entrenched positions will take considerable effort and particularly compelling data to overturn.\" Fagan noted that pseudoarchaeological theories simply do not have sufficient evidence to back them up and allow them to be accepted by professional archaeologists.\n\nConversely, many pseudoarchaeologists, whilst criticising the academic archaeological establishment, also attempt to get support from people with academic credentials and affiliations. At times, they quote historical, and in most cases dead academics to back up their arguments; for instance prominent pseudoarchaeologist Graham Hancock, in his seminal \"Fingerprints of the Gods\" (1995), repeatedly notes that the eminent physicist Albert Einstein once commented positively on the pole shift hypothesis, a theory that has been abandoned by the academic community but which Hancock supports. As Fagan noted however, the fact that Einstein was a physicist and not a geologist is not even mentioned by Hancock, nor is the fact that the understanding of plate tectonics (which came to disprove earth crustal displacement) only came to light following Einstein's death.\n\nPseudoarchaeology can be motivated by nationalism (\"cf.\" Nazi archaeology, using cultural superiority of the ancient Aryan race as a basic assumption to establish the Germanic people as the descendants of the original Aryan 'master race') or a desire to prove a particular religious (\"cf.\" intelligent design), pseudohistorical, political, or anthropological theory. In many cases, an \"a priori\" conclusion is established, and fieldwork is undertaken explicitly to corroborate the theory in detail. \n\nArchaeologists distinguish their research from pseudoarchaeology by pointing to differences in research methodology, including recursive methods, falsifiable theories, peer review, and a generally systematic approach to collecting data. Though there is overwhelming evidence of cultural connections informing folk traditions about the past, objective analysis of folk archaeology—in anthropological terms of their cultural contexts and the cultural needs they respond to—have been comparatively few. However, in this vein, Robert Silverberg located the Mormon's use of Mound Builder culture within a larger cultural nexus and the voyage of Madoc and \"Welsh Indians\" was set in its changing and evolving sociohistorical contexts by Gwyn Williams.\n\nReligiously motivated pseudoarchaeological theories include the young earth theory of some Judeo-Christian fundamentalists. They argue that the Earth is 4,000-10,000 years old, with figures varying, depending on the source. Some Hindu pseudoarchaeologists believe that the \"Homo sapiens\" species is much older than the 200,000 years it is generally believed to have existed. Archaeologist John R. Cole refers to such beliefs as \"cult archaeology\" and believes them to be pseudoarchaeological. He went on to say that this \"pseudoarchaeology\" had \"many of the attributes, causes, and effects of religion\".\n\nA more specific example of religious pseudoarcheology is the claim of Ron Wyatt to have discovered Noah's ark, the graves of Noah and his wife, the location of Sodom and Gomorrah, the Tower of Babel, and numerous other important sites. However, he has not presented evidence sufficient to impress Bible scholars, scientists, and historians. Answers in Genesis propagates many pseudoscientific notions as part of its creationist ministry.\n\nPseudoarchaeology can be practised intentionally or unintentionally. Archaeological frauds and hoaxes are considered \"intentional pseudoarchaeology\". Genuine archaeological finds may be unintentionally converted to pseudoarchaeology through unscientific interpretation. (\"cf.\" confirmation bias)\n\nEspecially in the past, but also in the present, pseudoarchaeology has been motivated by racism, especially when the basic intent was to discount or deny the abilities of non-white peoples to make significant accomplishments in astronomy, architecture, sophisticated technology, ancient writing, seafaring, and other accomplishments generally identified as evidence of \"civilization\". Racism can be implied by attempts to attribute ancient sites and artefacts to Lost Tribes, Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact, or even extraterrestrial intelligence rather than to the intelligence and ingenuity of indigenous peoples.\n\nPractitioners of pseudoarchaeology often rail against academic archaeologists and established scientific methods, claiming that conventional science has overlooked critical evidence. Conspiracy theories may be invoked, in which \"the Establishment\" colludes in suppressing evidence.\n\nCountering the misleading \"discoveries\" of pseudoarchaeology binds academic archaeologists in a quandary, described by Cornelius Holtorf as whether to strive to disprove alternative approaches in a \"crusading\" approach or to concentrate on better public understanding of the sciences involved; Holtorf suggested a third, relativist and contextualised approach, in identifying the social and cultural needs that both scientific and alternative archaeologies address and in identifying the engagement with the material remains of the past in the present in terms of critical understanding and dialogue with \"multiple pasts\", such as Barbara Bender explored for Stonehenge. In presenting the quest for truths as process rather than results, Holtorf quoted Gotthold Lessing (\"Eine Duplik\", 1778):\nIf God were to hold in his right hand all the truth and in his left the unique ever-active spur for truth, although with the corollary to err forever, asking me to choose, I would humbly take his left and say \"Father, give; for the pure truth is for you alone!\"\n\n\"Archaeological readings of the landscape enrich the experience of inhabiting or visiting a place,\" Holtorf asserted. \"Those readings may well be based on science but even non-scientific research contributes to enriching our landscapes.\" The question for opponents of folk archaeology is whether such enrichment is delusional.\n\nParticipatory \"public\" or \"community\" archaeology offers guided engagement.\n\nIn the mid-2nd century, those exposed by Lucian's sarcastic essay \"Alexander the false prophet\" prepared an archaeological \"find\" in Chalcedon to prepare a public for the supposed oracle they planned to establish at Abonoteichus in Paphlagonia (Pearse, 2001):\nAt Glastonbury Abbey in 1291, at a time when King Edward I desired to emphasize his \"Englishness\", a fortunate discovery was made: the coffin of King Arthur, unmistakably identified with an inscribed plaque. Arthur was reinterred at Glastonbury in a magnificent ceremonial attended by the king and queen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPseudoarchaeological theories have come to be heavily criticised by academic and professional archaeologists. Prominent academic archaeologist Colin Renfrew stated his opinion that it was appalling that pseudoarchaeologists treated archaeological evidence in such a \"frivolous and self-serving way\", something he believed trivialised the \"serious matter\" of the study of human origins. Academics like John R. Cole, Garrett G. Fagan and Kenneth L. Feder have argued that pseudoarchaeological interpretations of the past were based upon sensationalism, self-contradiction, fallacious logic, manufactured or misinterpreted evidence, quotes taken out of context and incorrect information. Fagan and Feder characterised such interpretations of the past as being \"anti-reason and anti-science\" with some being \"hyper-nationalistic, racist and hateful\". In turn, many pseudoarchaeologists have dismissed academics as being close minded and not willing to consider theories other than their own.\n\nMany academic archaeologists have argued that the spread of alternative archaeological theories is a threat to the general public's understanding of the past. Fagan was particularly scathing of television shows that presented pseudoarchaeological theories to the general public, believing that they did so because of the difficulties in making academic archaeological ideas comprehensible and interesting to the average viewer. Renfrew however believed that those television executives commissioning these documentaries knew that they were erroneous, and that they had allowed them to be made and broadcast simply in the hope of \"short-term financial gain\".\n\nFagan and Feder believed that it was not possible for academic archaeologists to successfully engage with pseudoarchaeologists, remarking that \"you cannot reason with unreason\". Speaking from their own experiences, they thought that attempted dialogues just became \"slanging matches in which the expertise and motives of the critic become the main focus of attention.\" Fagan has maintained this idea elsewhere, remarking that arguing with supporters of pseudoarchaeological theories was \"pointless\" because they denied logic. He noted that they included those \"who openly admitted to not having read a word written by a trained Egyptologist\" but who at the same time \"were pronouncing how academic Egyptology was all wrong, even sinister.\"\n\nAt the 1986 meeting of the Society for American Archaeology, its organizers, Kenneth Feder, Luanne Hudson and Francis Harrold decided to hold a symposium to examine pseudoarchaeological beliefs from a variety of academic standpoints, including archaeology, physical anthropology, sociology, history and psychology. From this symposium, an anthology was produced, entitled \"Cult Archaeology & Creationism: Understanding Pseudoarchaeological Beliefs about the Past\" (1987).\n\nAt the 2002 annual meeting of the Archaeological Institute of America, a workshop was held on the topic of pseudoarchaeology. It subsequently led to the publication of an academic anthology, \"Archaeological Fantasies: How Pseudoarchaeology Misinterprets the Past and Misleads the Public\" (2006), which was edited by Garrett G. Fagan.\n\nOn 23 and 24 April 2009, The American Schools of Oriental Research and the Duke University Center for Jewish Studies, along with the Duke Department of Religion, the Duke Graduate Program in Religion, the Trinity College of Arts and Sciences Committee on Faculty Research, and the John Hope Franklin Humanities Institute, sponsored a conference entitled \"Archaeology, Politics, and the Media,\" which addressed the abuse of archaeology in the Holy Land for political, religious, and ideological purposes. Emphasis was placed on the media's reporting of sensational and politically motivated archaeological claims and the academy's responsibility in responding to it.\n\nAcademic archaeologist Cornelius Holtorf believed however that critics of alternative archaeologies like Fagan were \"opinionated and patronizing\" towards alternative theories, and that purporting their views in such a manner was damaging to the public's perception of archaeologists. Holtorf highlighted that there were similarities between academic and alternative archaeological interpretations, with the former taking some influence from the latter. As evidence, he highlighted archaeoastronomy, which was once seen as a core component of fringe archaeological interpretations before being adopted by mainstream academics. He also noted that certain archaeological scholars, like William Stukeley (1687–1765), Margaret Murray (1863–1963) and Marija Gimbutas (1921–1994) were seen as significant figures to both academic and alternative archaeologists. He came to the conclusion that a constructive dialogue should be opened up between academic and alternative archaeologists. Fagan and Feder have responded to Holtorf's views in detail, asserting that such a dialogue is no more possible than is one between evolutionary biologists and creationists or between astronomers and astrologers: one approach is scientific, the other is anti-scientific.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Kenneth Feder conducted a survey of his archaeology students. On the 50-question survey, 10 questions had to do with archaeology and/or pseudoscience. Some of the claims were more rational; the world is 5 billion years old, and human beings came about through evolution. However, questions also included issues such as, King Tut’s tomb actually killed people upon discovery, and there is solid evidence for the existence of Atlantis. As it turned out, some of the students Feder was teaching put some stake in the pseudoscience claims. 12% actually believed people on Howard Carter’s expedition were killed by an ancient Egyptian curse.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242617", "title": "Rite of passage", "text": "Rite of passage\n\nA rite of passage is a ceremony of the passage which occurs when an individual leaves one group to enter another. It involves a significant change of status in society. In cultural anthropology the term is the Anglicisation of \"rite de passage\", a French term innovated by the ethnographer Arnold van Gennep in his work \"Les rites de passage\", \"The Rites of Passage\". The term is now fully adopted into anthropology as well as into the literature and popular cultures of many modern languages.\n\nIn English, Van Gennep's first sentence of his first chapter begins:\n\n\"Each larger society contains within it several distinctly separate groupings. ... In addition, all these groups break down into still smaller societies in subgroups.\"\n\nThe population of a society belongs to multiple groups, some more important to the individual than others. Van Gennep uses the metaphor, \"as a kind of house divided into rooms and corridors.\" A passage occurs when an individual leaves one group to enter another; in the metaphor, he changes rooms.\n\nVan Gennep further distinguishes between \"the secular\" and \"the sacred sphere.\" Theorizing that civilizations are arranged on a scale, implying that the lower levels represent \"the simplest level of development,\" he hypothesizes that \"social groups in such a society likewise have magico-religious foundations.\" Many groups in modern industrial society practice customs that can be traced to an earlier sacred phase. Passage between these groups requires a ceremony, or ritual hence rite of passage.\n\nThe rest of Van Gennep's book presents a description of rites of passage and an organization into types, although in the end he despairs of ever capturing them all: \"It is but a rough sketch of an immense picture ...\" He is able to find some universals, mainly two: \"the sexual separation between men and women, and the magico-religious separation between the profane and the sacred.\" (Earlier the translators used secular for profane.) He refuses credit for being the first to recognize type of rites. In the work he concentrates on groups and rites individuals might normally encounter progressively: pregnancy, childbirth, initiation, betrothal, marriage, funerals and the like. He mentions some others, such as the territorial passage, a crossing of borders into a culturally different region, such as one where a different religion prevails.\n\nRites of passage have three phases: separation, liminality, and incorporation, as van Gennep described. \"I propose to call the rites of separation from a previous world, \"preliminal rites\", those executed during the transitional stage \"liminal (or threshold) rites\", and the ceremonies of incorporation into the new world \"postliminal rites\".\"\n\nIn the first phase, people withdraw from their current status and prepare to move from one place or status to another. \"The first phase (of separation) comprises symbolic behavior signifying the detachment of the individual or group ... from an earlier fixed point in the social structure.\" There is often a detachment or \"cutting away\" from the former self in this phase, which is signified in symbolic actions and rituals. For example, the cutting of the hair for a person who has just joined the army. He or she is \"cutting away\" the former self: the civilian.\n\nThe transition (liminal) phase is the period between states, during which one has left one place or state but has not yet entered or joined the next. \"The attributes of liminality or of liminal \"personae\" (\"threshold people\") are necessarily ambiguous.\"\n\nIn the third phase (reaggregation or incorporation) the passage is consummated [by] the ritual subject.\" Having completed the rite and assumed their \"new\" identity, one re-enters society with one's new status. Re-incorporation is characterized by elaborate rituals and ceremonies, like debutant balls and college graduation, and by outward symbols of new ties: thus \"in rites of incorporation there is widespread use of the 'sacred bond', the 'sacred cord', the knot, and of analogous forms such as the belt, the ring, the bracelet and the crown.\"\n\nLaboratory experiments have shown that severe initiations produce cognitive dissonance. It is theorized that such dissonance heightens group attraction among initiates after the experience, arising from internal justification of the effort used. Rewards during initiations have important consequences in that initiates who feel more rewarded express stronger group identity. As well as group attraction, initiations can also produce conformity among new members. Psychology experiments have also shown that initiations increase feelings of affiliation.\n\nInitiation rites are seen as fundamental to human growth and development as well as socialization in many African communities. These rites function by ritually marking the transition of someone to full group membership. It also links individuals to the community and the community to the broader and more potent spiritual world. Initiation rites are \"a natural and necessary part of a community, just as arms and legs are natural and necessary extension of the human body\". These rites are linked to individual and community development. Dr. Manu Ampim identifies five stages; rite to birth, rite to adulthood, rite to marriage, rite to eldership and rite to ancestorship. In Zulu culture entering womanhood is celebrated by the Umhlanga.\n\nRites of passage are diverse, and are found throughout many cultures around the world. Many western societal rituals may look like rites of passage but miss some of the important structural and functional components. However, in many Native and African-American communities, traditional rites of passage programs are conducted by community-based organizations such as \"Man Up Global\". Typically the missing piece is the societal recognition and reincorporation phase. Adventure education programs, such as Outward Bound, have often been described as potential rites of passage. Pamela Cushing researched the rites of passage impact upon adolescent youth at the Canadian Outward Bound School and found the rite of passage impact was lessened by the missing reincorporation phase. Bell (2003) presented more evidence of this lacking third stage and described the \"Contemporary Adventure Model of a Rites of Passage\" as a modern and weaker version of the rites of passage typically used by outdoor adventure programs.\n\nIn various tribal societies, entry into an age grade—generally gender-separated—(unlike an age set) is marked by an initiation rite, which may be the crowning of a long and complex preparation, sometimes in retreat.\n\n\n\nSome academic circles such as dorms, fraternities, teams and other clubs practice hazing, ragging and fagging. \"Szecskáztatás\", a mild form of hazing (usually without physical and sexual abuse) practiced in some Hungarian secondary schools. First-year junior students are publicly humiliated through embarrassing clothing and senior students branding their faces with marker pens; it is sometimes also a contest, with the winners usually earning the right to organize the next event. Fraternities and sororities, like other private societies, often have codified initiation ceremonies as ritual separating candidates from members.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12577593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12577593", "title": "Robert Jaulin", "text": "Robert Jaulin\n\nRobert Jaulin (7 March 1928, Le Cannet, Alpes-Maritimes – 21 November 1996, Grosrouvre) was a French ethnologist. After several journeys to Chad, between 1954 and 1959, among the Sara people, he published in 1967 \"La Mort Sara\" (The Sara Death) in which he exposed the various initiation rites through which he had passed himself, and closely analyzed Sara geomancy. In \"La Paix blanche\" (The White peace, 1970), he redefined the notion of ethnocide in relation to the extermination by the Western world of the Bari culture, located between Venezuela and Colombia. If a genocide designs the physical extermination of a people, an ethnocide refers to the extermination of a culture.\n\nJaulin has given particular attention to phenomenons of acculturation and highlight the importance of cultural relativism in order to respect other cultures. Although he was part of the humanist tradition of universalism seen through a multiculturalist viewpoint, he opposed a universalist method of ethnology which would try to abstract general laws from the study of particular societies — targeting in particular structuralism, preferring, on Malinowski's steps, to immerge himself in one specific culture and closely describe it. In this aim, he theorized a specific approach to ethnology, dubbed in 1985 \"ethnologie pariseptiste\" by Yves Lecerf in an attempt to describe Jaulin's teachings at the University of Paris-VII since May '68. \n\nJaulin signed the \"Manifeste des 121\" opposed to the use of torture during the Algerian War (1954–62). After a journey among the Bari in South America, he called for a convention on ethnocide in the Americas at the Congress of Americanists, and in February, 1970, the French Society of Americanists convened for that purpose. Jaulin criticized in particular the role of Christian missionaries towards non-Western cultures.\n\nIn 1970, he created at the University of Paris-VII the first department dedicated to ethnology, anthropology and science of religions, to which participated scholars such as the philosopher Jean-Toussaint Desanti, Pierre Bernard, Bernard Delfendahl, Serge Moscovici, Jean Rouch, Michel de Certeau, etc.\n\nRobert Jaulin redefined the concept of ethnocide in 1970 with his ground-breaking \"La paix blanche : introduction à l’ethnocide\" (\"White Peace: Introduction to Ethnocide\"). This capital work, which remains to be translated into English, gives a detailed account of the ethnocide-in-motion suffered by the Bari, an Indian people living on the border between Venezuela and Colombia, in the second half of the sixties, as witnessed by Robert Jaulin himself. Whether conflicting or collaborating among themselves, multiple vectors of ethnocide in place (the Catholic Church and other Christian confessions, the Venezuelan and the Colombian armies, the American oil company Colpet, and all the “little colonists” as Jaulin calls them) converged to the relentless disavowal and destruction of Bari’s culture and society. \n\nIn Jaulin’s understanding of the notion, it is not the \"means\" but the \"ends\" that define ethnocide. Accordingly, the ethnocide would be the systematic destruction of the thought or culture and the way of life of people different from those who carry out this enterprise of destruction. Whereas the genocide assassinates the people in their body, the ethnocide kills them in their spirit and culture.\n\nCollective and arbitrary murder, systematic abduction of children to raise them away from their parent’s culture, active and degrading religious propaganda, forced work, expulsion from the homeland or compulsory abandonment of cultural habits and social structure, all these practices, described by Robert Jaulin, have in common a deep despise for the other man and woman as representatives of a different cultural world.\n\nAlong with a detailed description and analysis of Bari’s case, \"La paix blanche\" is also a broad reflection on Western civilization’s tendency to disacknowledge, lower and destroy other cultural worlds as it comes in touch with them, while extending its own domain, bringing the focus of the discussion back from the frontiers of Western civilization to its core and its history. As he takes his inquiry back in time, Jaulin shows that the way the West relates to other civilizations is a continuation of the way it has always related to its own inner cultural diversity, from the monotheistic exclusion of the representatives of different and differing cultural spaces (the “other” gods, divinities, entities, etc.) to its reinstatement under the successive garments of Reason, Revolution, Progress or Science.\n\nA long reflection on the dynamics that led to worldwide ethnocide, its different “masks”, its history and, according to him, one of its earliest manifestations, monotheism, led Robert Jaulin to a complete reappraisal of the phenomenal and conceptual fields polarized by the notion of ethnocide. \n\nThis reassessment took its final shape in the 1995’s work, \"L’univers des totalitarismes : Essai d’ethnologie du “non-être”\" (in free translation: \"The Universe of Totalitarianisms: An Ethnological Essay on “Non-Being”\"). In this book, the notion of “totalitarianism” (which should not be mistaken for Hannah Arendt’s concept of totalitarianism) depicts the underlying dynamics of which ethnocide becomes a manifestation among others.\n\nRobert Jaulin defines totalitarianism as an abstract \"scheme\" or \"machine\" of non-relation to cultural otherness characterized by the expansion of \"oneself \" (\"soi\") through an election/exclusion logic. The totalitarian machine operates by splitting the universe into its own “agents” on the one side, and its “objects” on the other, whether they be individuals, families, groups, societies or whole civilizations. It proceeds by depriving the later of their quality of \"cultural subjects\" through the erosion and finally the suppression of their space of tradition and cultural invention, which mediates their relation with themselves, i.e. their reflexivity. With the mutilation of their “field of cultural potentialities”, as Jaulin calls it, the totalitarian dynamics transforms its “objects” into new “agents” of expansion, reduced to a mock self-relation defined by the horizon of a potential \"election\". However, to become actual this election needs to articulate with a pole of \"exclusion\"; thus the need of a new expansion of this universe of non-relation, the \"universe of totalitarianisms\", by definition an endlessly expanding universe whose theoretical limits paradoxically coincide with its own self-destruction.\n\nThe election/exclusion logics works by means of pairs of contradictory and, therefore, mutually exclusive terms. Their content may be as varied as the different semantic domains invested by the totalitarian machine: chosen/doomed, religion/magic, truth/falseness, literate/illiterate, savage/civilized, subject/object, intellectual/manual, proletarians/capitalists, science/illusion, subjectivity/objectivity, etc. In all these contradictory pairs, one of the poles “means” to occupy the whole field; but at the same time, its own meaning and “existence” depends on the virtually excluded pole.\n\nAccording to Robert Jaulin, the asymmetrical relation portrayed by these pairs is but the starting point of totalitarian movement, its static and temporary position. Its dynamics derives from the “wished for” or prospective \"inversion\" of the relation between its two poles. This may happen through the totalitarian pair defining the pre-existing situation, the design of a new one or, more often, through recovery and adaptation of old formulas.\n\nThe recovery of the Marxist proletarian/capitalistic contradictory pair or the even older monotheistic chosen/doomed couple by many Independence or Prophetic Movements in the former European colonies as a means of inverting the pre-existing totalitarian field is an instance of the shifts through which the “totalitarian trajectory” reinvents itself. This example also shows the place of ethnocide within the overall totalitarian dynamics as the dialectical alternate to totalitarian inversion.\n\nSuch an inexorable and elementary logic, with its ability to migrate to, pervade and finally destroy ever-differing cultural and social worlds, accounts for the endlessly restarted trajectory of totalitarianism’s two-pole field through time and space.\n\n\n\n\"Exercices d'ethnologie\", de Robert Jaulin, Roger Renaud (Éditeur), Paris, Éditions P.U.F., 1999\n\n"}
{"id": "2571533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2571533", "title": "Selma's Choice", "text": "Selma's Choice\n\n\"Selma's Choice\" is the thirteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fourth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 21, 1993. In the episode, Selma decides to have a baby, inspired by her late aunt's wish that she would not spend her life alone. She experiences what life with children is like by taking Bart and Lisa to the Duff Gardens amusement park, which does not go as planned. It was written by David M. Stern and directed by Carlos Baeza.\n\nAfter watching an advertisement on television for Duff Gardens, Homer, Bart and Lisa decide to go. As they prepare to leave, Marge tells them that spinster Great Aunt Gladys died and they will be going to her funeral instead. The Simpsons, along with Patty and Selma, drive to Littleneck Falls to attend her funeral and the reading of her will. On the video will, Great Aunt Gladys tells Patty and Selma not to die alone, as she did. Selma hears the ticking of her biological clock, and decides she wants a child. Selma tries video dating, but gets rejected by Groundskeeper Willie. She goes to a psychic who tries to sell her a love potion. The psychic ingests it, blurts out the innocuous ingredients and discovers that she accidentally drank a truth serum. Selma dates Hans Moleman after revoking his license at the DMV. All goes well until Hans tries to kiss her goodnight; Selma envisions herself as the mother of several ugly, blind children and kicks Hans out of the car to prevent that future from happening. Lisa then suggests to Selma that she go through artificial insemination.\n\nWhen the day comes for Homer to take Bart and Lisa to Duff Gardens, he falls ill from food poisoning after eating a hoagie that became spoiled days, if not weeks earlier after he took it home from a company picnic. In an attempt to give Selma a taste of motherhood, Marge nominates her to take the kids to Duff Gardens while she stays home to look after Homer.\n\nWhen the trio arrives at Duff Gardens, Bart and Lisa wear Selma out, especially when they go on the Little Land of Duff ride and Bart dares Lisa to drink the toxic \"water\". Lisa is confused, but Bart mocks her until Selma intervenes, shouting at Bart to shut up and ordering Lisa to drink the water. When Lisa takes a sip, she hallucinates, grows violent and paranoid, and wanders away from the ride, tripping out to the parade music. While Selma is looking for Lisa, Bart gets on a roller coaster called The Barrel Roll and ends up having to be rescued after the car stops in the center of one of the inversions. Lisa is soon found swimming nude in the Fermentarium, returned to Selma and given pills by an unlicensed doctor.\n\nAfter Bart and Lisa return home, Selma decides she can live without children for now and adopts Jub-Jub, Gladys' pet iguana.\n\nWriter David Stern said he wanted to go back to a \"Patty and Selma episode\", because it was sustained so well when he wrote \"Principal Charming\". He thought it was important to \"keep these characters (Patty and Selma) alive.\" The animators had trouble with the size of the characters' pupils during the season. In this episode, they are noticeably larger. When the family watches the video will, Julie Kavner did five voices in the scene. When Great Aunt Gladys shows off her collection of potato chips, the scene was inspired by Myrtle Young, who appeared on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\". During an interview with David Letterman, Young said she was working in quality control at a potato chip factory, and collected potato chips that looked like, amongst other things, famous people. The scene where Homer ate a chip is a reference to the Johnny Carson appearance, where, whilst Young was looking away, Johnny ate a chip from a separate bowl (not of the collection), Young, thinking Johnny had ate a chip from her collection, was shocked, before Johnny cleared up the misuderstanding. Jub-Jub made his debut appearance in this episode; the name of the iguana Jub-Jub came from Conan O'Brien.\n\nThough research is usually done when real languages are used on the show, the language heard on Selma's ham radio is fictional.\n\nThe episode title is a take on the 1982 film \"Sophie's Choice\". Marge's flashback of her and her sisters swimming in a lake is based on \"The Prince of Tides\". The singers at Duff Gardens, Hooray for Everything, are a parody of the musical group Up with People. The group is seen performing a kid-friendly version of the Lou Reed song \"Walk on the Wild Side\". Homer and Bart start to sing \"Ding-Dong! The Witch Is Dead\" from \"The Wizard of Oz\". The poem that Great Aunt Gladys reads at the start of her video will is \"The Road Not Taken\" by Robert Frost. Duff Gardens is a parody of Busch Gardens, originally developed as a marketing vehicle for the Anheuser-Busch brewing company. The song and ride that Bart, Lisa, and Selma go on, with animatronic kids from all over the world singing is a parody of the song \"It's a Small World\". The Duff Gardens parade is a parody of Disneyland's Main Street Electrical Parade.as Lisa's hallucination where she sees Selma after drinking the water on the ride is based on the work of artist Ralph Steadman, particularly in the novel \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\". When Lisa says \"I am the Lizard Queen!\", it is a tribute to Jim Morrison's poem \"Celebration of the Lizard\". After acquiring Jub-Jub, Selma sings \"(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman\", a reference to the season four finale of the sitcom \"Murphy Brown\", in which reporter Murphy Brown sings the song after giving birth to her baby.\n\n\"Selma's Choice\" finished 27th in the weekly ratings for the week of January 18–24, 1993 with a Nielsen rating of 14.2.\n\nThe authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood said, \"A nice episode for Selma and good for Marge and Homer as well. But it's the kids who provide the highlights in this one, with their antics at Duff Gardens.\" The author of \"Planet Simpson: How a Cartoon Masterpiece Documented an Era and Defined a Generation\", Chris Turner said it \"Fills in with the usual grab bag of great gags\" and \"The episode had some crowd-pleasing moments.\"\nHe went on to say, \"The last few minutes of the show played out to continuous laughter [in the pub he was watching it in]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "69470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69470", "title": "Terrassa", "text": "Terrassa\n\nTerrassa (, ) is a city in the east central region of Catalonia, in the province of Barcelona, \"comarca\" of Vallès Occidental, of which it is the cocapital along with Sabadell.\n\nIt is the site of Roman Egara, a former Visigothic bishopric, which became a Latin Catholic titular see.\n\nThe city is located in the Catalan Prelitoral depression (Depressió Prelitoral), at the feet of the Prelitoral mountain range (Natural reserve of Sant Llorenç del Munt) and the average altitude of the city is 277 meters above sea level. It is 20 and 18 kilometres from Barcelona and Montserrat respectively.\n\nTerrassa is the third largest city in Catalonia, after Barcelona and L’Hospitalet.\n\nThe remains that have been found indicate that the area where Terrassa stands has been inhabited since prehistory. In 2005, during the construction of a tunnel for one of the city's railway lines, a prehistoric site was found in the Park of Vallparadís , with stone tools and fossils of hunted animals dating back 800,000 to 1,000,000 years, making this is one of the oldest prehistoric sites in Europe.\n\nTerrassa originated as the Roman town of \"Egara\" (\"Municipium Flavium Egara\"), which was founded during the time of the emperor Vespasian (69-79 CE), alongside the torrent of Vallparadís (nowadays an urban park) close to the Iberian town of \"Egosa\", on the site of which some ceramics and coins have been found.\n\nOther important remains from the Middle Ages are the former cathedral, the castle of Vallparadís (from 1344 to 1413 a Carthusian monastery and today a municipal museum) and the tower of the castle-palace of the count-king.\n\nIn the 19th century the city played an important role in the industrial revolution, specializing in woollen fabrics, and today there is a major \"Modernista\" legacy as a result of the city's importance at that time. Particularly notable \"Modernista\" buildings include the Masia Freixa (1907), the Vapor Aymerich, Amat i Jover textile mill (1907) (now the Museum of Science and Industry of Catalonia), the Principal theater (1920), the city hall (1902), the Alegre de Sagrera house/museum (1911), the Industrial School (1904), the Gran Casino (1920), the Parc de Desinfecció (1920), and the Independència market (1908). Terrassa is a partner city of the Art nouveau network , a European network of co-operation created in 1999 for the study, preservation and development of Art Nouveau.\n\nThe 25 September 1962, after a long dry season, between 212 and 252 litres of rain per square metre fell in three hours. It caused rivers Llobregat and Besòs and their tributaries to overflow, creating a water avenue that caused 700 victims and lots of material losses.\n\nThe Vallès Occidental \"comarca\" was the most damaged. In particularly Terrassa, with 327 victims. The reason of these numbers was that building was permitted around two dry streams used to bring rain water to the Llobregat river. They met in a wedge shape and were not properly channelized. When the streams overflowed created what was called \"the dead triangle\", with more than a hundred victims only in the Ègara neighbourhood.\n\nThe episcopal see of Ègara already existed by about 450 CE, when it was established on territory split off from the Roman Catholic Diocese of Barcelona, under the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Tarragona. Pope Hilarius confirmed its autonomy be denying a request around 469 to unite it with the Barcelona under its own first bishop, Ireneus.\n\nIt comprised parts of these Comarques of Catalonia (Catalan districts) : Alt Penedès, Anoia, Baix Llobregat, Vallès Occidental and Vallès Oriental. A Provincial Council of Tarragona was held there in 615.\n\nIt effectively succumbed to the Arab (Muslim) conquest in the 8th century and was probably suppressed, its territory being (rather nominally) returned to the Diocese of Barcelona. The Marian cathedral continued to exist until 718, when it was taken over during the Umayyad conquest of Hispania, but was rebuilt in the 12th century, and remains part of a monumental complex of ancient Visigothic-Romanesque churches of Sant Pere de Terrassa and Sant Miquel on the site.\n\nAfter the Catholic Reconquista of the region in the tenth century, the see was not restored, its territory being incorporated in the (mother) diocese of Barcelona. Why a request to restore the bishopric by its Metropolitan of Tarragona, Cesareo, wasn't honored by Pope John XII (955-964) is unclear.\n\nIn 1969 the diocese was nominally restored as Titular bishopric of Egara.\n\nIt has had the following incumbents, so far of the fitting episcopal (lowest) rank:\n\nThese three churches were built close to the site of old Ègara to be the seat of the Ègara Diocese, which was founded around 450 CE and remained in existence until the 8th century. This episcopal complex follows the Byzantine model of antiquity, with two churches (Sant Pere and Santa Maria) and a mausoleum (Sant Miquel). After a long period of construction, the churches were finished in the then-current manner about the 11th and 12th centuries and in Romanesque style, on the site of the pre-Romanesque buildings of the Visigothic period.\nThe church of Santa Maria contains outstanding works of art, and there are murals dating from the Romanesque period to the Gothic. There is also an altar stone dating from the 10th century and medieval and Romanesque tombstones (one of which documents the name of the Roman town of Egara). In the transept there are three Gothic altarpieces.\n\n\nThe city is heir to a rich medieval, \"Modernista\" and industrial legacy, and possesses an extensive network of libraries, historical archives and museums.\n\n\nThe Municipal Council has 27 seats and according to the result of the local elections of May 2015 is formed by: \n\nThe municipal government is formed by a coalition between PSC and CiU. The Mayor is Alfredo Vega (PSC).\n\nTerrassa is well connected with Barcelona's port and airport by highway and railway. The C-58 and C-16 also link the city with (Manresa), (Girona, France), and (Tarragona).\n\nThe railway reached Terrassa in 1856, and nowadays two lines serve the city. The first, operated by RENFE, connects with Barcelona and Lleida, and the second, operated by FGC, with Barcelona. Recently FGC extended its line to the north of the city, building three new stations; one of them acts as a rail hub with the RENFE line. This extension is known as the Terrassa Metro.\n\nSeveral interurban bus lines connect Terrassa with the closest cities and towns such as Sabadell, Castellar del Vallès, Martorell, Rubí, Sant Cugat del Vallès and Vacarisses.\n\nTransport inside the city is provided by 14 bus lines operated by a municipal company (Transports Municipals d'Ègara). In the future, when the three new FGC stations and the two planned for the RENFE line are in use, the railway will also serve as urban transport.\n\nA lot of musicians and actors are based in Terrassa because of the large number of music schools, a long amateur theater tradition and the local seat of the University of Drama. From 1982 the Terrassa Jazz Festival is specially outstanding, with guests like Stan Getz, Chet Baker, Dexter Gordon, Tete Montoliu, Dizzy Gillespie.\n\nTerrasa has a local newspaper, the \"Diari de Terrassa\", that is published daily from Tuesday to Saturday, as well as several radio stations: Ràdio Terrassa/Cadena SER Vallès on 828 AM and 89.4 FM, with more than 75 years of history behind it, being one of the pioneering radio stations in Catalonia and Spain; the municipal radio (Noucincpuntdos, 95.2 FM); and Radio Star de Terrassa, the city's cultural station, on 100.5 FM, which was founded in 1984 and is one of the historic local radios of Catalonia.\n\nAlso the city has several local channels - TV20 Locàlia Vallès and Canal Terrassa, with an audience of more than 50,000 viewers. In addition, there is the free newspaper \"Terrassa Societat\", published monthly with a circulation of 50,000, and \"Terrassa Month\", published of Monday through Friday and also covering local events. Since 2005 the municipal digital newspaper e-newsterrassa.com, in Catalan, has been on line \"(today as for 2013 this digital newspaper has been taken down now)\". The municipal Web site www.terrassa.cat receives no fewer than 150,000 monthly visitors.\nAs for 2013, current and working digital newspaper in Terrassa is Diari de Terrassa i Catalunya InfoTalQual.com\n\nThere's a new media, free magazine called \"La Veu de Terrassa\" owned by El Grup la veu.\n\nTerrassa was a pioneer in the introduction of field hockey and korfball in Catalonia and played an important role in the introduction of basketball. The most important sport in the city is field hockey. During the Barcelona Olympic Games in 1992, Terrassa was the city where the field hockey competition was played. The great number of hockey players from Terrassa who have participated in the Olympic Games over the years has led to Terrassa's being referred to as the \"most Olympic city in the world\". Between 1928 and 2004, Terrassa sent 124 athletes to the Olympic Games, the majority of whom were hockey players. Three local field hockey clubs play in the main Spanish league championship:\n\nAtlètic Terrassa and Club Egara have won the EuroHockey Club Champions Cup.\n\nOther local sports teams include Club Natació Terrassa (water polo), which won the 2006 LEN Trophy); Terrassa FC (football), and Sferic Terrassa (basketball).\n\nTerrassa is the home and birthplace of FC Barcelona and Spain national football team midfielder Xavi.\n\nThe city's castells teams are the Minyons de Terrassa and the Castellers de Terrassa. On November 22, 2015, Terrassa's Plaça Vella was the scene of the world's first successful \"4 de 10 amb folre i manilles,\" completed by the Minyons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26618036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26618036", "title": "The Analysis of Verbal Behavior", "text": "The Analysis of Verbal Behavior\n\nThe Analysis of Verbal Behavior (TAVB) is a scientific journal that was established in 1982 as a peer-reviewed psychology journal. It publishes research in conceptual and empirical analysis of verbal behavior and problems of social importance.\n\nThe journal was created by Mark Sundberg in 1982 after he completed his PhD at Western Michigan University in 1980. TAVB was previously a newsletter called the \"VB Newsletters\" and no publications appeared in 1984.\n\nThe current editor (2012) is Anna I. Pétursdóttir PhD, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth.\n\n\n\nVB MAPP is an example of technology used in behavioral interventions that is based on the type of research done in TAVB.\n\nFunctional analytic psychotherapy is a treatment derived from Verbal Behavior analysis applied to adults with depression and other psycho-pathologies.\n\nNo details for its impact factors are available to date.\n\n"}
{"id": "43124335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43124335", "title": "The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever", "text": "The Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever\n\nThe Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever is an essay written by Oliver Wendell Holmes which first appeared in The New England Quarterly Journal of Medicine in 1843. It was later reprinted in the “Medical Essays” in 1855. It is included as Volume 38, Part 5 of the Harvard Classics series. \n\nIn just under 12,000 words Holmes argues forcefully and convincingly that the rampant infection killing women within a few days of childbirth was caused mainly through infection spread by their birth attendants. He also laid down well-thought out and easy to execute behaviors through which the spread of infection could be contained.\n\nHolmes developed an interest in puerperal fever by accident. In 1836 Holmes graduated from Harvard Medical School. He was Professor of Anatomy and Physiology at Dartmouth College from 1838 to 1840. In 1840 Holmes went back to Boston, took up general practice, and joined the Boston Society for Medical Improvement. At one of the meetings of the Society a report was presented about a physician who had performed a post mortem examination of a woman who had died from puerperal fever. Within a week that doctor himself died of infection, seemingly contracted when he was wounded during the autopsy he had conducted on the dead woman. The report stated that during the time interval between when the physician received the wound and then subsequently died from it, all the women whom he had attended during childbirth contracted puerperal fever. This report seems to have convinced Holmes that\n“The disease, known as Puerperal Fever, is so far contagious as to be frequently carried from patient to patient by physicians and nurses.”\nThe end of the essay included eight steps which birth attendants needed to adhere to in order to prevent the spread of infection from patient to patient, especially infected patients to susceptible women after childbirth. Until this time in history these eight rules were the most definitive standard so far published on the control of this terrifying illness. Adhering to these protocols no doubt saved innumerable lives around the world.\nUnfortunately the essay did not enjoy the early and wide distribution which it deserved. The essay first came to light as a paper read before the Boston Society for Medical Improvement. The Society asked that the essay be published as a paper in the New England Quarterly Journal of Medicine and Surgery in April 1843. Due to low circulation of this specialized journal and the fact that the journal was discontinued after just one year, the paper was not properly brought to the attention of either physicians or the public at large.\nIn 1852 Dr. James Copeland mentioned the Holmes essay positively in his well-respected Dictionary of Practical Medicine. Dr. Copeland, who was the Consulting Physician to Queen Charlotte's Lying-in Hospital in London, affirmed the contagiousness of puerperal fever by pointing out that \"Dr. Holmes has forcibly and eloquently brought this much neglected subject before the profession.\" Dr. Copeland unfortunately also added that there was no consensus on the infectiousness of puerperal fever with such eminent experts as Hulme, Leake, Hull, Beaudeloque, Tonnellé, Dugé, Dewees and others still denying this fact.\nTwelve years after the original publication in 1843 Holmes reprinted his essay in 1855 as a private publication. He entitled it “Puerperal Fever as a Private Pestilence.” He had two main reasons for the reprint: first, because of the poor distribution of the essay at first; and second, to warn his fellow doctors and convince them of the contagiousness of puerperal fever. Holmes added a preface to the original essay, stating all the issues, deflating the pretensions of the professors who were still denying the cause of the fever, and warning medical students of the illogical nature of their arguments.\n"}
{"id": "42004574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42004574", "title": "The Taliban Shuffle", "text": "The Taliban Shuffle\n\nThe Taliban Shuffle: Strange Days in Afghanistan and Pakistan is a memoir by U.S. journalist Kim Barker about her experiences reporting in Pakistan and Afghanistan. It was published in 2011.\n\nThe book has received mostly positive reviews. The book has received 3.42/5 ratings on Goodreads based on 2,560 reviews. BookBrowse rated the book 4/5.\n\nIn February 2014, U.S. actress Tina Fey confirmed that her production company, Little Stranger, would be adapting the book into a film, which was released in March 2016. Fey stars in the film, which was produced by Lorne Michaels and written by Robert Carlock. Paramount hired Glenn Ficarra and John Requa to direct the film. It co-stars Margot Robbie, Martin Freeman, Billy Bob Thornton, and Alfred Molina.\n"}
{"id": "55512662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55512662", "title": "The Vows of the Heron", "text": "The Vows of the Heron\n\nThe Vows of the Heron (\"Voeux du héron\") c.1346 is a satirical Flemish poem, which purported to explain the causes of the Hundred Years' War in terms of the goading into action by a Low Country exile of Edward III of England.\n\nRobert III of Artois, in exile in England, was a significant bone of contention between England and France, as well as a persistent agitator of Edward to take action against France.\n\n\"The Vows\" presents Robert as offering Edward a heron at a royal banquet: \"I believe I have caught the most cowardly bird...It is my intention to give the heron to the most cowardly one who lives or has ever lived: that is Edward Louis, disinherited of the noble land of France...because of his cowardice\". The poem satirizes Robert as the cunning instigator of the war; and presents Edward as his naïve, blustering victim.\n\nWhile almost certainly a fictional account, modern historians consider that the poem nonetheless reveals a kind of truth about the relations of the two men, and the approach to war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192793", "title": "Thomas Nagel", "text": "Thomas Nagel\n\nThomas Nagel (; born July 4, 1937) is an American philosopher and University Professor of Philosophy and Law Emeritus at New York University, where he taught from 1980 to 2016. His main areas of philosophical interest are philosophy of mind, political philosophy and ethics.\n\nNagel is well known for his critique of material reductionist accounts of the mind, particularly in his essay \"What Is it Like to Be a Bat?\" (1974), and for his contributions to deontological and liberal moral and political theory in \"The Possibility of Altruism\" (1970) and subsequent writings. He continued the critique of reductionism in \"Mind and Cosmos\" (2012), in which he argues against the neo-Darwinian view of the emergence of consciousness.\n\nNagel was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia (now Serbia), to German Jewish refugees Carolyn (Baer) and Walter Nagel. Nagel arrived in the US in 1939, and was raised in, and around New York. He received a BA in philosophy from Cornell University in 1958, where he was a member of the Telluride House and where he was introduced to the philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein. He then attended the University of Oxford on a Fulbright Scholarship and received a BPhil in 1960; while there, he studied with J. L. Austin, and H. Paul Grice. He received his PhD in philosophy from Harvard University in 1963. At Harvard, Nagel studied under John Rawls, whom Nagel later called \"the most important political philosopher of the twentieth century.\"\n\nNagel taught at the University of California, Berkeley (from 1963 to 1966) and at Princeton University (from 1966 to 1980), where he trained many well-known philosophers including Susan Wolf, Shelly Kagan, and Samuel Scheffler, the latter of whom is now his colleague at NYU.\n\nNagel is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy, and, in 2006, was elected as a member of the American Philosophical Society. He has held a fellowship from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. In 2008, he was awarded a Rolf Schock Prize for his work in philosophy, the Balzan prize, and the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Oxford.\n\nIn his work \"Mind and Cosmos\", he notes that he is an atheist, writing, \"I lack the \"sensus divinitatis\" that enablesindeed compelsso many people to see in the world the expression of divine purpose as naturally as they see in a smiling face the expression of human feeling.\"\n\nNagel began to publish philosophy at the age of twenty-two; his career now spans over fifty years of publication. Nagel thinks that each person, owing to his or her capacity to reason, instinctively seeks a unified world view. However, if this aspiration leads one to believe that there is only one way to understand our intellectual commitments, whether about the external world, knowledge, or what our practical and moral reasons ought to be, this leads one into error. For contingent, limited and finite creatures, no such unified world view is possible. That is because ways of understanding are not always better when they are more objective.\n\nLike the British philosopher Bernard Williams, Nagel believes that the rise of modern science has permanently changed how people think of the world and our place in it. A modern scientific understanding is one way of thinking about the world and our place in it that is more objective than the common sense view it replaces. It is more objective because it is less dependent on our peculiarities as the kinds of thinkers that people are. Our modern scientific understanding involves the mathematicized understanding of the world represented by modern physics. Understanding this beached out view of the world draws on our capacities as purely rational thinkers and fails to account for the specific nature of our perceptual sensibility. The way in which modern science and philosophy has drawn a distinction between the mathematically and structurally describable \"primary qualities\" of objects such as shape and solidity and those properties dependent on our sensory apparatus, \"secondary qualities\" such as taste and color, is a prime example that Nagel returns to repeatedly in his work.\n\nDespite what may seem like skepticism about the objective claims of science, Nagel does not dispute that science describes the world that exists independently of us. His contention, rather, is that a given way of understanding a subject matter should not be regarded as better simply for being more objective. He argues that the subjective viewpoint of scientific understanding, when applied to the mind, leaves out something essential and is fundamentally unable to help people fully understand themselves. In \"What Is it Like to Be a Bat?\" and elsewhere, he writes that science cannot describe what it is like \"to be\" a thinker who conceives of the world from a particular subjective perspective.\n\nNagel argues that some phenomena are not best grasped from a more objective perspective. The standpoint of the thinker does not present itself to him: he is that standpoint. One learns and uses mental concepts by being directly acquainted with one's own mind, whereas any attempt to think more objectively about mentality would abstract away from this fact. It would, of its nature, leave out what it is to be a thinker, and that, Nagel believes, would be a falsely objectifying view. Being a thinker is to have a subjective perspective on the world; if one abstracts away from this perspective one leaves out what he sought to explain.\n\nNagel thinks that philosophers over-impressed by the paradigm of the kind of objective understanding represented by modern science tend to produce theories of the mind that are falsely objectifying in precisely this kind of way. They are right to be impressed – modern science really is objective – but are wrong to take modern science to be the only paradigm of objectivity. The kind of understanding that science represents does not transfer to everything that people would like to understand.\n\nAs a philosophical rationalist, Nagel believes that a proper understanding of the place of mental properties in nature will involve a revolution in our understanding of both the physical and the mental, and that this is a reasonable prospect that people can anticipate in the near future. A plausible science of the mind will give an account of the stuff that underpins mental and physical properties in such a way that people will simply be able to see that it necessitates both of these aspects. Now, it seems to people that the mental and the physical are irreducibly distinct but that is not a metaphysical insight, or an acknowledgment of an irreducible explanatory gap, but simply where people are at their present stage of understanding.\n\nNagel's rationalism and tendency to present our human nature as a composite, structured around our capacity to reason, explains why he thinks that therapeutic or deflationary accounts of philosophy are simply complacent and that radical skepticism is, strictly speaking, irrefutable. The therapeutic or deflationary philosopher, influenced by the later philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein, reconciles people to the dependence of our worldview on our \"form of life\". Nagel accuses Wittgenstein and American philosopher of mind and language Donald Davidson of philosophical idealism. In both cases they ask people to take up an interpretative perspective to making sense of other speakers in the context of a shared, objective world. This, for Nagel, elevates contingent conditions of our make-up into criteria for that which is real. The result 'cuts the world down to size' and makes what there is dependent on what there can be interpreted to be. Nagel claims this is no better than more orthodox forms of idealism in which reality is claimed to be made up of mental items or claimed to be constitutively dependent on a form supplied by the mind.\n\nNagel is probably most widely known within the field of philosophy of mind as an advocate of the idea that consciousness and subjective experience cannot, at least with the contemporary understanding of physicalism, be satisfactorily explained using the current concepts of physics. This position was primarily discussed by Nagel in one of his most famous articles: \"What is it Like to Be a Bat?\" (1974). The article's title question, though often attributed to Nagel, was originally asked by Timothy M.B. Sprigge. The article was originally published in 1974 in \"The Philosophical Review\", and has been reprinted several times, including in \"The Mind's I\" (edited by Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter), \"Readings in the Philosophy of Psychology\" (edited by Ned Block), Nagel's \"Mortal Questions\" (1979), \"The Nature of Mind\" (edited by David M. Rosenthal), and \"\" (edited by David J. Chalmers).\n\nIn \"What is it Like to Be a Bat?\", Nagel argues that consciousness has essential to it a \"subjective character,\" a \"what it is like\" aspect. He states that \"an organism has conscious mental states if and only if there is something that it is like to \"be\" that organism—something it is like \"for\" the organism.\" His critics have objected strongly to what they see as a misguided attempt to argue from a fact about how one represents the world (trivially, one can only do so from his own point of view) to a false claim about the world, that it somehow has first personal perspectives built into it. On that understanding, Nagel is a conventional dualist about the physical and the mental. This is, however, a misunderstanding: Nagel's point is that there is a constraint on what it is to possess the concept of a mental state, namely, that one be directly acquainted with it. Concepts of mental states are only made available to a thinker who can be acquainted with his/her own states; clearly, the possession and use of physical concepts has no corresponding constraint.\n\nPart of the puzzlement here is because of the limitations of imagination: influenced by his Princeton colleague, Saul Kripke, Nagel believes that any type identity statement that identified a physical state type with a mental state type would be, if true, necessarily true. But Kripke argues that one can easily imagine a situation where, for example, one's C-fibres are stimulated but one is not in pain and so refute any such psychophysical identity from the armchair. (A parallel argument does not hold for genuine theoretical identities.) This argument that there will always be an explanatory gap between an identification of a state in mental and physical terms is compounded, Nagel argues, by the fact that imagination operates in two distinct ways. When asked to imagine \"sensorily\", one imagines C-fibres being stimulated; if asked to imagine \"sympathetically\", one puts oneself in a conscious state resembling pain. These two ways of imagining the two terms of the identity statement are so different that there will always seem to be an explanatory gap, whether or not this is the case. (Some philosophers of mind have taken these arguments as helpful for physicalism on the grounds that it exposes a limitation that makes the existence of an explanatory gap seem compelling, while others have argued that this makes the case for physicalism even more impossible as it cannot be defended even in principle.)\n\nNagel is not a physicalist because he does not believe that an internal understanding of mental concepts shows them to have the kind of hidden essence that underpins a scientific identity in, say, chemistry. But his skepticism is about current physics: he envisages in his most recent work that people may be close to a scientific breakthrough in identifying an underlying essence that is neither physical (as people currently think of the physical), nor functional, nor mental, but such that it necessitates all three of these ways in which the mind \"appears\" to us. The difference between the kind of explanation he rejects and those that he accepts depends on his understanding of transparency: from his earliest paper to his most recent Nagel has always insisted that a prior context is required to make identity statements plausible, intelligible and transparent.\n\nIn his 2012 book \"Mind and Cosmos\", Nagel argues against a materialist view of the emergence of life and consciousness, writing that the standard neo-Darwinian view flies in the face of common sense. He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature, and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided. He argues that the principles that account for the emergence of life may be teleological, rather than materialist or mechanistic. Despite Nagel's being an atheist and not a proponent of intelligent design (ID), his book was \"praised by creationists\", according to the \"New York Times\". Nagel writes in \"Mind and Cosmos\" that he disagrees with both ID defenders and their opponents, who argue that the only naturalistic alternative to ID is the current reductionist neo-Darwinian model.\n\nNagel has argued that ID should not be rejected as non-scientific, for instance writing in 2008 that \"ID is very different from creation science,\" and that the debate about ID \"is clearly a scientific disagreement, not a disagreement between science and something else.\" In 2009, he recommended \"Signature in the Cell\" by the philosopher and ID proponent Stephen C. Meyer in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" as one of his \"Best Books of the Year.\" Nagel does not accept Meyer's conclusions but he endorsed Meyer's approach, and argued in \"Mind and Cosmos\" that Meyer and other ID proponents, David Berlinski and Michael Behe, \"do not deserve the scorn with which they are commonly met.\"\n\nSteven Pinker and Daniel Dennett both dismissed the book.\n\nNagel has been highly influential in the related fields of moral and political philosophy. Supervised by John Rawls, Nagel has been a long-standing proponent of a Kantian and rationalist approach to moral philosophy. His distinctive ideas were first presented in the short monograph \"The Possibility of Altruism,\" published in 1970. That book seeks by reflection on the nature of practical reasoning to uncover the formal principles that underlie reason in practice and the related general beliefs about the self that are necessary for those principles to be truly applicable to us. Nagel defends motivated desire theory about the motivation of moral action. According to motivated desire theory, when a person is motivated to moral action it is indeed true that such actions are motivated – like all intentional actions – by a belief and a desire. But it is important to get the justificatory relations right: when a person accepts a moral judgment he or she is necessarily motivated to act. But it is the reason that does the justificatory work of justifying both the action and the desire. Nagel contrasts this view with a rival view which believes that a moral agent can only accept that he or she has a reason to act if the desire to carry out the action has an independent justification. An account based on presupposing sympathy would be of this kind.\n\nThe most striking claim of the book is that there is a very close parallel between prudential reasoning in one's own interests and moral reasons to act to further the interests of another person. When one reasons prudentially, for example about the future reasons that one will have, one allows the reason in the future to justify one's current action without reference to the strength of one's current desires. If a hurricane were to destroy someone's car next year at that point he will want his insurance company to pay him to replace it: that future reason gives him a reason, now, to take out insurance. The strength of the reason ought not to be hostage to the strength of one's current desires. The denial of this view of prudence, Nagel argues, means that one does not really believe that one is one and the same person through time. One is dissolving oneself into distinct person-stages.\n\nThis is the basis of his analogy between prudential actions and moral actions: in cases of altruistic action for another person's good that person's reasons quite literally become reasons for one if they are timeless and intrinsic reasons. Genuine reasons are reasons for anyone. Comparable to the views of the nineteenth century moral philosopher Henry Sidgwick, Nagel believes that one needs to conceive of one's good as an impersonal good and one's reasons as objective reasons. That means, practically, that a timeless and intrinsic value generates reasons for anyone. A person who denies the truth of this claim is committed, as in the case of a similar mistake about prudence, to a false view of him or herself. In this case the false view is that one's reasons are irreducibly his, in a way that does not allow them to be reasons for anyone: Nagel argues this commits such a person to the view that he or she cannot make the same judgments about her own reasons third-personally that she can make first-personally. Nagel calls this \"dissociation\" and considers it a practical analogue of solipsism (the philosophical idea that only one's own mind is sure to exist). Once again, a false view of what is involved in reasoning properly is refuted by showing that it leads to a false view of the nature of people.\n\nNagel's later work on ethics ceases to place as much weight on the distinction between a person's personal or \"subjective\" reasons and his or her \"objective\" reasons. Earlier, in \"The Possibility of Altruism,\" he took the stance that if one's reasons really are about intrinsic and timeless values then, \"qua\" subjective reason, one can only take them to be the guise of the reasons that there really are – the objective ones. In later discussions, Nagel treats his former view as an incomplete attempt to convey the fact that there are distinct classes of reasons and values, and speaks instead of \"agent-relative\" and \"agent-neutral\" reasons. In the case of agent-relative reasons (the successor to subjective reasons) specifying the content of the reason makes essential reference back to the agent for whom it is a reason. An example of this might be: \"Anyone has a reason to honor his or her parents.\" By contrast, in the case of agent-neutral reasons (the successor to objective reasons) specifying the content of the reason does not make any essential reference back to the person for whom it is a reason. An example of this might be: \"Anyone has a reason to promote the good of parenthood.\"\n\nThe different classes of reasons and values (i.e., agent-relative and agent-neutral) emphasized in Nagel's later work are situated within a Sidgwickian model in which one's moral commitments are thought of objectively, such that one's personal reasons and values are simply incomplete parts of an impersonal whole. The structure of Nagel's later ethical view is that all reasons must be brought into relation to this objective view of oneself. Those reasons and values that withstand detached critical scrutiny are objective, but more subjective reasons and values can nevertheless be objectively tolerated. However, the most striking part of the earlier argument and of Sidgwick's view is preserved: agent-neutral reasons are literally reasons for anyone, so all objectifiable reasons become individually possessed no matter whose they are. Thinking reflectively about ethics from this standpoint, one must take every other agent's standpoint on value as seriously as one's own, since one's own perspective is just a subjective take on an inter-subjective whole; one's personal set of reasons is thus swamped by the objective reasons of all others.\n\nThis is similar to \"world agent\" consequentialist views in which one takes up the standpoint of a collective subject whose reasons are those of everyone. But Nagel remains an individualist who believes in the separateness of persons so his task is to explain why this objective viewpoint does not swallow up the individual standpoint of each of us. He provides an extended rationale for the importance to people of their personal point of view. The result is a hybrid ethical theory of the kind defended by Nagel's Princeton PhD student Samuel Scheffler in \"The Rejection of Consequentialism\". The objective standpoint and its demands have to be balanced with the subjective personal point of view of each person and its demands. One can always be maximally objective but one does not have to be. One can legitimately \"cap\" the demands placed on him by the objective reasons of others. In addition, in his later work, Nagel finds a rationale for so-called deontic constraints in a way Scheffler could not. Following Warren Quinn and Frances Kamm, Nagel grounds them on the inviolability of persons.\n\nThe extent to which one can lead a good life as an individual while respecting the demands of others leads inevitably to political philosophy. In the Locke lectures published as the book \"Equality and Partiality\", Nagel exposes John Rawls's theory of justice to detailed scrutiny. Once again, Nagel places such weight on the objective point of view and its requirements that he finds Rawls's view of liberal equality not demanding enough. Rawls's aim to redress, not remove, the inequalities that arise from class and talent seems to Nagel to lead to a view that does not sufficiently respect the needs of others. He recommends a gradual move to much more demanding conceptions of equality, motivated by the special nature of political responsibility. Normally people draw a distinction between that which people do and that which people fail to bring about. But this thesis, true of individuals, does not apply to the state, which is a collective agent. A Rawlsian state permits intolerable inequalities and people need to develop a more ambitious view of equality to do justice to the demands of the objective recognition of the reasons of others. For Nagel, honoring the objective point of view demands nothing less.\n\nNagel has said that \"\"There are elements [of living] which, if added to one's experience, make life better; there are other elements which if added to one's experience, make life worse. But what remains when these are set aside is not merely neutral: it is emphatically positive.\"\n\nNagel received the 1996 PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award for the Art of the Essay for \"Other Minds\" (1995). He has also been awarded the Balzan Prize in Moral Philosophy (2008), the Rolf Schock Prize in Logic and Philosophy of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (2008) and the Distinguished Achievement Award of the Mellon Foundation (2006).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38666574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38666574", "title": "Thracian tomb Griffins", "text": "Thracian tomb Griffins\n\nThe Thracian tomb Griffins, found in Bulgaria, has a façade decorated with plastic columns and with a pediment above them. The pediment`s ends are semi-palmettes, the lower leaves of which are elongated and look like heads of griffins. The temple was built in the 5th century BC. There is a corridor made from river stones, floored with earth. The façade, the antechamber and the circular chamber are built of granite blocks. The entrances to the antechamber and the dome chamber had been closed by stone doors which were found broken during the research of the facility. The antechamber is of rectangular shape and has a double-pitched roof. The round chamber is covered with fine-made dome. The floors of both rooms are made of plastered granite slabs. Opposite the entrance of the circular chamber is situated a ritual stone bed with decorations. On a stone block in front of the bed were found gold paws. A funeral took place in the temple in the 4th century BC. The corridor was filled with river stones and soil. It was robbed in antiquity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45564939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45564939", "title": "Tibor Živković", "text": "Tibor Živković\n\nTibor Živković (; March 11, 1966 – March 26, 2013) was a Serbian academic, historian and writer who specialised in the period of the early Middle Ages.\n\nŽivković was born in Mostar, and history studied at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Belgrade between 1985–90, when he graduated at the Department of Antiquity. He received his MA in 1996 with a thesis \"slavizacija na teritoriju Srbije VII-XI stoljeća\" (Slavicization on the territory of Serbia 7th-11th centuries). He received his PhD in 2000 with a dissertation \"Slavs under Byzantine rule from the 7th to 11th Centuries (until 1025\").\n\nAs of 1997, he worked at The Institute of History of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU), and was the director of the Historical Institute from 2002–10, as well as editor in chief of the Drafting Committee editions of the Historical Institute.\n\nDuring the doctoral studies he was a scholar of the Greek government (1997-1999). As a scholar of the Ministry of Science and Technological Development of Serbia stayed at the postdoctoral studies at the Center for Byzantine Research (Institute for Byzantine Research, National Hellenic Research Foundation).\n\nHe participated as a team leader in archaeological excavations along the Ibar river between 2003 and 2009. He taught general Middle Ages at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Banja Luka.\n\nHis field of historical research involved complex issues related to the Early Middle Age history of South Slavs, and the territory of Serbia, Croatia, Bulgaria, and Greece. Emphasis in his research was on the history of Serbs in the early Middle Ages. He also researched and gave new insights on the \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\" (Gesta Regum Sclavorum), the early ecclesiastical history of the Serbian territory, and the early Serbian rulers. He published many scientific papers and books.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28618208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28618208", "title": "Turrell V. Wylie", "text": "Turrell V. Wylie\n\nTurrell Verl \"Terry\" Wylie (August 20, 1927 – August 25, 1984) was an American scholar, Tibetologist, sinologist, and professor, known as one of the 20th century's leading scholars of Tibet. He taught as a professor of Tibetan Studies at the University of Washington and served as the first chair of the Department of Asian Languages and Literature. Wylie founded the Tibetan Studies program at the University of Washington, the first of its kind in the United States, setting a major precedent for future programs and research in the field. His system for rendering the Tibetan language in Latin script, known as Wylie transliteration, is the primary system used for transcribing Tibetan in academic and historical contexts.\n\nTurrell V. \"Terry\" Wylie was born in Durango, Colorado on August 20, 1927. He attended the University of Washington as an undergraduate student, where he graduated with a B.A. degree. Wylie continued on at the university as a graduate student, receiving a Ph.D. in Chinese in 1958 with a dissertation entitled \"The Geography of Tibet According to the \"'Dzam-gling-rgyas-bshad\"\". Wylie also studied under Giuseppe Tucci, an early pioneer of Buddhist studies in the West, and he was one of very few American scholars in the field whose education \"combined solid linguistic preparation with a rigorous command of text-oriented philological discipline.\"\n\nWylie is best known for the system of Tibetan transliteration described in his groundbreaking article, \"A Standard System of Tibetan Transcription\" (1959). Today, it is an almost universally adopted scheme for accurately representing the orthography of Tibetan in the Latin script, and is commonly referred to as the \"Wylie transliteration\".\n\nFollowing the People's Liberation Army's takeover of Tibet, Wylie invited the first group of Tibetan refugees to Seattle in 1960, courtesy of the Rockefeller Foundation. Among them included Geshe Nawang L. Nornang, a renowned lecturer of Tibetan language at the University of Washington who subsequently worked with Wylie to establish the first Tibetan Studies program in America under the National Defense Education Act, and Lhadon Karsip, co-contributor with Geshe Nornang to \"A Manual of Spoken Tibetan\" (1964). Also in the group were Sakya Dagchen Rinpoche, a hierarch of the Sakya school of Tibetan Buddhism, and Dezhung Rinpoche, co-founder of the Sakya Dharma Center in Seattle.\n\nWylie died on August 25, 1984. Upon his death, the 14th Dalai Lama remarked, \"Dr. Wylie's strong and genuine feelings for the Tibetan people and their just cause will long remain deeply appreciated. In the death of Dr. Wylie we have lost a true friend and a distinguished scholar of Tibetan studies.\" At the memorial service on 9 October 1984, Jigmie Yuthok speaking on behalf of the Seattle Tibetan Community said, \"As a scholar in the truest sense of the word, whose life-long research in the histories of Tibet and China led him to discern fact from fiction, he stood up for the truth of Tibet's independent status and spoke out at every opportunity even in the face of overwhelming opposition from numerous vested interest groups. He was not the one to compromise anything for the Truth. To the Tibetans here in particular, he was a great teacher, a mentor, a patron, and an affectionate brother whose kindness and generosity had nurtured the first batch of Tibetans that he brought to Seattle in 1960 to grow into a thriving little community it is today.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1267858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1267858", "title": "Valaam", "text": "Valaam\n\nValaam (Russian: Валаам or Валаамский архипелаг), also known historically by the Finnish name Valamo, is an archipelago in the northern portion of Lake Ladoga, lying within the Republic of Karelia, Russian Federation. The total area of its more than 50 islands is 36 km². The largest island is also called Valaam. Other known islads are: Skitsky (second by size), Lembos, Sviatoy, Bayonny, Moskovsky, Predtechensky, Nikonovsky, Divny, Emelyanov, Oboronny, Goly, Savvaty's, Zosima's, Skalisty, Lukovy, Ovsiany, Rzhanoi, Nikolsky.\n\nIt is best known as the site of the 14th century Valaam Monastery on Valaam Island and for its natural environment. In the 12th century, the islands were a part of the Novgorod Republic. In the 17th century, they were captured by Sweden during the Time of Troubles, but Russia reconquered them less than a century later. When the Grand Duchy of Finland was set up in the early 19th century as an autonomous part of the Russian Empire, Alexander I of Russia made Valaam a part of Finland. In 1917, Valaam became a part of newly independent Finland, but it was annexed by the USSR after the Winter War and Continuation War.\nThe name of the island is from the Finno-Ugric word \"valamo\", which means the high, mountain, ground. The climate and natural history of the island are unique because of its position in Lake Ladoga. Spring begins at the end of March and a typical summer on Valaam consists of 30-35 sunny days, which is more than on the mainland. The average temperature in July is 17 °C. The winter and snow arrive in early December. In the middle of February the ice road to the nearest city of Sortavala (42 km) is traversable. The average temperature of February is minus 8 °C.\n\nMore than 480 species of plants grow on the island, many of which have been cultivated by monks. The island is covered by coniferous woods, about 65% of which are pine. Ten species of mammals and more than 120 avian species call the archipelago home.\n\nThe island was visited repeatedly by emperors Alexander I, Alexander II, and other members of the imperial family. Other famous visitors include Tchaikovsky and Mendeleyev.\nThe island is permanently inhabited by monks and families. In 1999, there were about 600 residents on the main island; including army service personnel, restoration workers, guides and monks. There is a kindergarten, an arts and sports venue, a school, a small museum and a medical centre. The community on Valaam at the moment has no official administrative status.\n\nDuring the summer, the main island can be reached by tour boats which leave St. Petersburg at night and arrive at the island the following morning.\n\nThe president of the Russian Federation has a dacha on one of the islands of Valaam, but its precise location is not publicly known.\nSelby, N. \"St. Petersburg\", 2nd. edition, 1999, Lonely Planet Publications \n\n"}
{"id": "276167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276167", "title": "Wrongdoing", "text": "Wrongdoing\n\nA wrong (from Old English \"wrang \"– \"crooked\") is an act that is illegal or immoral. Legal wrongs are usually quite clearly defined in the law of a state and/or jurisdiction. They can be divided into civil wrongs and crimes (or \"criminal offences\") in common law countries, while civil law countries tend to have some additional categories, such as contraventions.\n\nMoral wrong is an underlying concept for legal wrong. Some moral wrongs are punishable by law, for example, rape or murder. Other moral wrongs have nothing to do with law. On the other hand, some legal wrongs, such as parking offences, could hardly be classified as moral wrongs.\n\nIn law, a wrong can be a legal injury, which is any damage resulting from a violation of a legal right. A legal wrong can also imply the state of being contrary to the principles of justice or law. It means that something is contrary to conscience or morality and results in treating others unjustly. If the loss caused by a wrong is minor enough, there is no compensation, which principle is known as \"de minimis non curat lex\". Otherwise, damages apply.\n\nThe law of England recognised the concept of a \"wrong\" before it recognised the distinction between civil wrongs (governed by civil law) and crimes (defined by criminal law), which distinction was developed during the thirteenth century.\n\n\n"}
