{"id": "5413861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5413861", "title": "Abd Al Aziz Awda", "text": "Abd Al Aziz Awda\n\nAbd Al Aziz Awda, also known as Abd al-Aziz Uda or Sheik Odeh (born 20 December 1950) is a Palestinian and one of the founders of the Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine, also known as Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ), which is deemed by the United States to be an international terrorist organization.\n\nAwda was listed as a \"Specially Designated Terrorist\" under United States law on 23 January 1995. A decade later, Awda was among the second and most recent group of indicted fugitives to be added to the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists list on 24 February 2006, along with PIJ secretary-general Ramadan Shalah. Awda is the spiritual leader of the PIJ and is still involved in the organization, which has its headquarters located in Damascus, Syria, where he likely still resides, along with other leaders of Palestinian Islamic Jihad.\n\nAwda was born on 20 December 1950 in Jabalia, a village just south of the city of Beit Lahia, in the Gaza Strip.\n\nAwda was educated in Arab and Islamic studies in Cairo, Egypt. He later worked as a lecturer at a university and as an Imam at a mosque, both of which were located in the Gaza Strip.\n\nAwda and Fathi Shaqaqi founded Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine, also known as Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ), when it was formed in the Gaza Strip during the 1970s as a branch of the Egyptian Islamic Jihad. Awda also became known as the group's spiritual leader.\n\nAwda was listed as a \"Specially Designated Terrorist\" under United States law on 23 January 1995. Later that year, Shaqaqi was assassinated in Malta in 1995, and was replaced as secretary-general of PIJ by Ramadan Shalah, who then joined Awda on the U.S. \"Specially Designated Terrorist\" list on 27 November 1995.\n\nFellow PIJ members Awda and Shalah were both indicted in a 53 count indictment in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa, Florida, on Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) charges of alleged involvement in racketeering activities for the designated international terrorist organization known as Palestinian Islamic Jihad. Awda is wanted for conspiracy to conduct the affairs of the PIJ through a pattern of racketeering activities such as bombings, murders, extortions, and money laundering. For that indictment, Awda and Shalah then became two of six alleged and indicted terrorist fugitives among the second and most recent group of indicted fugitives to be added to the FBI Most Wanted Terrorists on 24 February 2006.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) states that Awda is still involved in PIJ, which has its headquarters located in Damascus, Syria, where Awda likely remains as well. His other aliases listed by the FBI include Abdel Aziz Odeh, Abd Al Aziz Odeh, Abed Al Aziz Odeh, Abu Ahmed, Sheik Awda, Fadl Abu Ahmed, Al Sheik, The Sheik, and Mawlana.\n\n"}
{"id": "23502992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23502992", "title": "Ancient Fishweir Project", "text": "Ancient Fishweir Project\n\nAncient Fishweir Project is a collaborative group that creates an annual public art installation on Boston Common. \n\nIn the spring of each year, members of the Massachusett and Wampanoag Native American tribes work with students, educators and artists to construct a fish-weir in honor of the people who built fishweirs 3500 to 5200 years BP (Before Present) in the area that is now urban Boston. Today this fishweir re-creation is located on dry land near what was once an early shoreline that existed when ocean levels were lower and before new land was made by fill of the Back Bay tidal estuary that began in the Colonial period.\n\nThe fishweir construction is based on archeological discovery of wooden stakes from fishweirs, including the Boylston Street Fishweir, that are still buried under the streets of the Back Bay, Boston.\nThe early fishweirs, fence-like structures of wood and brush, were built in tidal flats to catch alewife, smelt, and herring during the spring spawn.\n\nThe time of the spring fish spawn, and the beginning of new growing season, is traditionally considered the New Year for Wampanoag and Massachuset people. In traditional culture it is said that the fish return to spawn in the streams when “the oak leaf is as big as a mouse’s ear”.\n\nInitiators of the Ancient Fishweir Project include Gill Solomon, Sachem of the Massachuset Tribe; Ross Miller; Dena Dincauze, archeologist; Ellen Berkland, Archeologist for the City of Boston; and Annawon Weedon and Jim Peters of the Wampanoag Tribe.\n\nAnnual building of the fishweir on Boston Common, the oldest public common in the country (1634), challenges assumptions of the history that is currently taught. Construction of the fishweir is supported by educational programs and teacher workshops in collaboration with Boston Children's Museum. Lectures and on-site music and dance performance events provide interpretation of the history for students and the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30809391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30809391", "title": "Arabs in Greece", "text": "Arabs in Greece\n\nArabs in Greece (, ), known as Araves, are the people from Arab countries, particularly Lebanon, Syria, the Palestinian Territories, Iraq, Jordan, many of whom are Christian, and also small groups from Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Libya and Sudan, who emigrated from their native nations and currently reside in Greece. Greece has a significant Arab population of about 30,800 people. Mainly from Egypt, Libyans, Iraqis and Lebanon. There are also many Arabs from Syria, Palestine, Jordan, Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. The majority tend to live in Athens and Thessaloniki. However, they can be found in all the parts of the country.\n\nIn addition, Greece has people from Arab countries, who have the status of refugees (e.g. refugees of the Syrian civil war) or illegal immigrants (Algerians of mainly Berber descent and usually mistakenly called Arabs) trying to immigrate to Western Europe.\n\nIn 904, the Arabs sacked Thessaloniki, their greatest achievement in Greece, while four years later they were defeated by Byzantine general Himerios in the Aegean. Nikephoros Phokas noted in 961 the increase of Arabs in Greece.\n"}
{"id": "19553473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553473", "title": "Baloch civil wars", "text": "Baloch civil wars\n\nThe Baloch civil wars are a series of conflicts that have taken place between the Baloch people. The Baloch are an ethnic group in Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan and Arab countries. Mostly the Baluch are tribal and have often fought amongst themselves throughout history. \n\nThe 30-year war was an intra Baloch conflict lasting almost 30-year-long and fought between the forces of Mir Chakar Khan Rind (tribal ruler) and Mir Gwaharam Khan Lashari in 15th century CE.\n\nMir Chakar Rind lived in Sevi (modern city of Sibi) in the hills of Balochistan and became the head of Rind tribe at the age of 18 after the death of his father Mir Shehak Khan. Mir Chakar's kingdom was short-lived because of a civil war between the Lashari and Rind tribes of Balochistan. Mir Chakar Rind and Mir Gwaharam Khan Lashari, head of the Lashari tribe, went to war that resulted in thousands dead, including Mir Chakar's brother. The war and the gallantry of the two tribe leaders continues to be a part of the Baloch peoples' history. After the \"Thirty Years' War\" against the Lashari Tribe, Mir Chakar Rind left Balochistan and settled in the Punjab region in 1518 with other rind tribes. these tribes are settle in southern,central Punjab.\n"}
{"id": "22951352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22951352", "title": "Benzodiazepine use disorder", "text": "Benzodiazepine use disorder\n\nBenzodiazepine use disorder, also called misuse or abuse, is the use of benzodiazepines without a prescription, often for recreational purposes, which poses risks of dependence, withdrawal and other long-term effects. Benzodiazepines are one of the more common prescription drugs used recreationally. When used recreationally benzodiazepines are usually administered orally but sometimes they are taken intranasally or intravenously. Recreational use produces effects similar to alcohol intoxication.\n\nIn tests in pentobarbital trained rhesus monkeys benzodiazepines produced effects similar to barbiturates. In a 1991 study, triazolam had the highest self-administration rate in cocaine trained baboons, among the five benzodiazepines examined: alprazolam, bromazepam, chlordiazepoxide, lorazepam, triazolam. A 1985 study found that triazolam and temazepam maintained higher rates of self-injection than a variety of other benzodiazepines. A 1991 study indicated that diazepam, in particular, had a greater abuse liability among people who were drug abusers than did many of the other benzodiazepines. Some of the available data also suggested that lorazepam and alprazolam are more diazepam-like in having relatively high abuse liability, while oxazepam, halazepam, and possibly chlordiazepoxide, are relatively low in this regard. A 1991–1993 British study found that the hypnotics flurazepam and temazepam were more toxic than average benzodiazepines in overdose. A 1995 study found that temazepam is more rapidly absorbed and oxazepam is more slowly absorbed than most other benzodiazepines.\n\nBenzodiazepines have been abused both orally and intravenously. Different benzodiazepines have different abuse potential; the more rapid the increase in the plasma level following ingestion, the greater the intoxicating effect and the more open to abuse the drug becomes. The speed of onset of action of a particular benzodiazepine correlates well with the ‘popularity’ of that drug for abuse. The two most common reasons for preference were that a benzodiazepine was ‘strong’ and that it gave a good ‘high’.\n\nAccording to Dr. Chris Ford, former clinical director of Substance Misuse Management in General Practice, among drugs of abuse, benzodiazepines are often seen as the 'bad guys' by drug and alcohol workers. Illicit users of benzodiazepines have been found to take higher methadone doses, as well as showing more HIV/HCV risk-taking behavior, greater poly-drug use, higher levels of psychopathology and social dysfunction. However, there is only limited research into the adverse effects of benzodiazepines in drug misusers and further research is needed to demonstrate whether this is the result of cause or effect.\nSedative-hypnotics such as alcohol, benzodiazepines, and the barbiturates are known for the severe physical dependence that they are capable of inducing which can result in severe withdrawal effects. This severe neuroadaptation is even more profound in high dose drug users and misusers. A high degree of tolerance often occurs in chronic benzodiazepine abusers due to the typically high doses they consume which can lead to a severe benzodiazepine dependence. The benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome seen in chronic high dose benzodiazepine abusers is similar to that seen in therapeutic low dose users but of a more severe nature. Extreme antisocial behaviors in obtaining continued supplies and severe drug-seeking behavior when withdrawals occur. The severity of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome has been described by one benzodiazepine drug misuser who stated that: I'd rather withdraw off heroin any day. If I was withdrawing from benzos you could offer me a gram of heroin or just 20mg of diazepam and I'd take the diazepam every time – I've never been so frightened in my life. Those who use benzodiazepines intermittently are less likely to develop a dependence and withdrawal symptoms upon dose reduction or cessation of benzodiazepines than those who use benzodiazepines on a daily basis.\n\nMisuse of benzodiazepines is widespread amongst drug misusers; however, many of these people will not require withdrawal management as their use is often restricted to binges or occasional misuse. Benzodiazepine dependence when it occurs requires withdrawal treatment. There is little evidence of benefit from long-term substitution therapy of benzodiazepines, and conversely, there is growing evidence of the harm of long-term use of benzodiazepines, especially higher doses. Therefore, gradual reduction is recommended, titrated against withdrawal symptoms. For withdrawal purposes, stabilisation with a long-acting agent such as diazepam is recommended before commencing withdrawal. Chlordiazepoxide (Librium), a long-acting benzodiazepine, is gaining attention as an alternative to diazepam in substance abusers dependent on benzodiazepines due to its decreased abuse potential. In individuals dependent on benzodiazepines who have been using benzodiazepines long-term, taper regimens of 6–12 months have been recommended and found to be more successful. More rapid detoxifications e.g. of a month are not recommended as they lead to more severe withdrawal symptoms.\n\nTolerance leads to a reduction in GABA receptors and function; when benzodiazepines are reduced or stopped this leads to an unmasking of these compensatory changes in the nervous system with the appearance of physical and mental withdrawal effects such as anxiety, insomnia, autonomic hyperactivity and possibly seizures.\n\nInclude the following:\nAll sedative-hypnotics, e.g. alcohol, barbiturates, benzodiazepines and the nonbenzodiazepine Z-drugs have a similar mechanism of action, working on the GABA receptor complex and are cross tolerant with each other and also have abuse potential. Use of prescription sedative-hypnotics; for example the nonbenzodiazepine Z-drugs often leads to a relapse back into substance misuse with one author stating this occurs in over a quarter of those who have achieved abstinence.\n\nBenzodiazepines are a commonly abused class of drugs, although there is debate as to whether certain benzodiazepines have higher abuse potential than others. In animal and human studies the abuse potential of benzodiazepines is classed as moderate in comparison to other drugs of abuse.\nBenzodiazepines are commonly abused by poly drug users, especially heroin addicts, alcoholics or amphetamine addicts when \"coming down\". but sometimes are misused in isolation as the primary drug of misuse. They can be misused to achieve the high that benzodiazepines produce or more commonly they are used to either enhance the effects of other CNS depressant drugs, to stave off withdrawal effects of other drugs or combat the effects of stimulants. As many as 30–50% of alcoholics are also benzodiazepine misusers. Drug abusers often abuse high doses which makes serious benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms such as psychosis or convulsions more likely to occur during withdrawal.\n\nBenzodiazepine abuse increases risk-taking behaviors such as unprotected sex and sharing of needles amongst intravenous abusers of benzodiazepines. Abuse is also associated with blackouts, memory loss, aggression, violence, and chaotic behavior associated with paranoia. There is little support for long-term maintenance of benzodiazepine abusers and thus a withdrawal regime is indicated when benzodiazepine abuse becomes a dependence. The main source of illicit benzodiazepines are diverted benzodiazepines obtained originally on prescription; other sources include thefts from pharmacies and pharmaceutical warehouses. Benzodiazepine abuse is steadily increasing and is now a major public health problem. Benzodiazepine abuse is mostly limited to individuals who abuse other drugs, i.e. poly-drug abusers. Most prescribed users do not abuse their medication, however, some high dose prescribed users do become involved with the illicit drug scene. Abuse of benzodiazepines occurs in a wide age range of people and includes teenagers and the old. The abuse potential or drug-liking effects appears to be dose related, with low doses of benzodiazepines having limited drug liking effects but higher doses increasing the abuse potential/drug-liking properties.\n\nComplications of benzodiazepine abuse include drug-related deaths due to overdose especially in combination with other depressant drugs such as opioids. Other complications include: blackouts and memory loss, paranoia, violence and criminal behaviour, risk-taking sexual behaviour, foetal and neonatal risks if taken in pregnancy, dependence, withdrawal seizures and psychosis. Injection of the drug carries risk of: thrombophlebitis, deep vein thrombosis, deep and superficial abscesses, pulmonary microembolism, rhabdomyolysis, tissue necrosis, gangrene requiring amputation, hepatitis B and C, as well as blood borne infections such as HIV infection (caused by sharing injecting equipment). Long-term use of benzodiazepines can worsen pre-existing depression and anxiety and may potentially also cause dementia with impairments in recent and remote memory functions.\n\nUse is widespread among amphetamine users, with those that use amphetamines and benzodiazepines having greater levels of mental health problems and social deterioration. Benzodiazepine injectors are almost four times more likely to inject using a shared needle than non-benzodiazepine-using injectors. It has been concluded in various studies that benzodiazepine use causes greater levels of risk and psycho-social dysfunction among drug misusers.\nPoly-drug users who also use benzodiazepines appear to engage in more frequent high-risk behaviors. Those who use stimulant and depressant drugs are more likely to report adverse reactions from stimulant use, more likely to be injecting stimulants and more likely to have been treated for a drug problem than those using stimulant but not depressant drugs.\n\nIndividuals with a substance abuse history are at an increased risk of misusing benzodiazepines.\n\nSeveral (primary research) studies, even into the last decade, claimed, that individuals with a history of familial abuse of alcohol or who are siblings or children of alcoholics appeared to respond differently to benzodiazepines than so called \"genetically healthy\" persons, with males experiencing increased euphoric effects and females having exaggerated responses to the adverse effects of benzodiazepines.\n\nWhilst all benzodiazepines have abuse potential, certain characteristics increase the potential of particular benzodiazepines for abuse. These characteristics are chiefly practical ones—most especially, availability (often based on popular perception of 'dangerous' versus 'non-dangerous' drugs) through prescribing physicians or illicit distributors. Pharmacological and pharmacokinetic factors are also crucial in determining abuse potentials. A short elimination half-life, high potency and a rapid onset of action are characteristics which increase the abuse potential of benzodiazepines. The following table provides the elimination half-life, relevant potency to other benzodiazepines, speed of onset of action and duration of behavioural effects.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Not all trade names are listed. Click on the drug name to see a more comprehensive list.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>The duration of apparent action is usually considerably less than the half-life. With most benzodiazepines, noticeable effects usually wear off within a few hours. Nevertheless, as long as the drug is present it will exert subtle effects within the body. These effects may become apparent during continued use or may appear as withdrawal symptoms when dosage is reduced or the drug is stopped.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki>Equivalent doses are based on clinical experience but may vary between individuals.\n\nLittle attention has focused on the degree that benzodiazepines are abused as a primary drug of choice, but they are frequently abused alongside other drugs of abuse, especially alcohol, stimulants and opiates. The benzodiazepine most commonly abused can vary from country to country and depends on factors including local popularity as well as which benzodiazepines are available. Nitrazepam for example is commonly abused in Nepal and the United Kingdom, whereas in the United States of America where nitrazepam is not available on prescription other benzodiazepines are more commonly abused. In the United Kingdom and Australia there have been epidemics of temazepam abuse. Particular problems with abuse of temazepam are often related to gel capsules being melted and injected and drug-related deaths. Injecting most benzodiazepines is dangerous because of their relative insolubility in water (with the exception of midazolam), leading to potentially serious adverse health consequences for users.\n\nBenzodiazepines are a commonly misused class of drug. A study in Sweden found that benzodiazepines are the most common drug class of forged prescriptions in Sweden. Concentrations of benzodiazepines detected in impaired motor vehicle drivers often exceeding therapeutic doses have been reported in Sweden and in Northern Ireland. One of the hallmarks of problematic benzodiazepine drug misuse is escalation of dose. Most licit prescribed users of benzodiazepines do not escalate their dose of benzodiazepines.\n\nProblem benzodiazepine use can be associated with various deviant behaviors, including drug-related crime. In a survey of police detainees carried out by the Australian Government, both legal and illegal users of benzodiazepines were found to be more likely to have lived on the streets, less likely to have been in full-time work and more likely to have used heroin or methamphetamines in the past 30 days from the date of taking part in the survey. Benzodiazepine users were also more likely to be receiving illegal incomes and more likely to have been arrested or imprisoned in the previous year. Benzodiazepines were sometimes reported to be used alone, but most often formed part of a poly drug-using problem. Female users were more likely than men to be using heroin, whereas male users were more likely to report amphetamine use. Benzodiazepine users were more likely than non-users to claim government financial benefits and benzodiazepine users who were also poly-drug users were the most likely to be claiming government financial benefits. Those who reported using benzodiazepines alone were found to be in the mid-range when compared to other drug using patterns in terms of property crimes and criminal breaches. Of the detainees reporting benzodiazepine use, one in five reported injection use, mostly of illicit temazepam, with some who reported injecting prescribed benzodiazepines. The injection was a concern in this survey due to increased health risks. The main problems highlighted in this survey were concerns of dependence, the potential for overdose of benzodiazepines in combination with opiates and the health problems associated with injection of benzodiazepines.\n\nBenzodiazepines are also sometimes used for drug facilitated sexual assaults and robbery, however, alcohol remains the most common drug involved in drug facilitated assaults. The muscle relaxant, disinhibiting and amnesia producing effects of benzodiazepines are the pharmacological properties which make these drugs effective in drug-facilitated crimes. Serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer admitted to using triazolam (Halcion), and occasionally temazepam (Restoril), in order to sedate his victims prior to murdering them.\n\nIn a 2017 publication, an analysis of the blood samples of 22 victims of drug-facilitated robberies in Bangladesh revealed that criminals use different mixtures of Benzodiazepines including Lorazepam, Midazolam, Diazepam and Nordiazepam to immobilize and then rob their victims.\n\nTemazepam abuse and seizures have been falling in the UK probably due to its reclassification as Schedule 3 controlled drug with tighter prescribing restrictions and the resultant reduction in availability.\nA total of 2.75 million temazepam capsules were seized in the Netherlands by authorities between 1996 and 1999. In Northern Ireland statistics of individuals attending drug addiction treatment centers found that benzodiazepines were the 2nd most commonly reported main problem drugs (31 percent of attendees). Cannabis was the top with 35 percent of individuals reporting it as their main problem drug. The statistics showed that treatment for benzodiazepines as the main problematic drug had more than doubled from the previous year and was a growing problem in Northern Ireland.\n\nBenzodiazepines are common drugs of abuse in Australia and New Zealand, particularly among those who may also be using other illicit drugs. The intravenous use of temazepam poses the greatest threat to those who misuse benzodiazepines. Simultaneous consumption of temazepam with heroin is a potential risk factor of overdose. An Australian study of non-fatal heroin overdoses noted that 26% of heroin users had consumed temazepam at the time of their overdose. This is consistent with an NSW investigation of coronial files from 1992. Temazepam was found in 26% of heroin-related deaths. Temazepam, including tablet formulations, are used intravenously. In an Australian study of 210 heroin users who used temazepam, 48% had injected it. Although abuse of benzodiazepines has decreased over the past few years, temazepam continues to be a major drug of abuse in Australia. In certain states like Victoria and Queensland, temazepam accounts for most benzodiazepine sought by forgery of prescriptions and through pharmacy burglary. Darke, Ross & Hall found that different benzodiazepines have different abuse potential. The more rapid the increase in the plasma level following ingestion, the greater the intoxicating effect and the more open to abuse the drug becomes. The speed of onset of action of a particular benzodiazepine correlates well with the ‘popularity’ of that drug for abuse. The two most common reasons for preference for a benzodiazepine were that it was the ‘strongest’ and that it gave a good ‘high’.\n\nThe most frequently abused of the benzodiazepines in both the United States and Canada are alprazolam, clonazepam, lorazepam and diazepam.\n\nThe Central Narcotics Bureau of Singapore seized 94,200 nimetazepam tablets in 2003. This is the largest nimetazepam seizure recorded since nimetazepam became a controlled drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act in 1992. In Singapore nimetazepam is a Class C controlled drug.\n\nIn Hong Kong abuse of prescription medicinal preparations continued in 2006 and seizures of midazolam (120,611 tablets), nimetazepam/nitrazepam (17,457 tablets), triazolam (1,071 tablets), diazepam (48,923 tablets) and chlordiazepoxide (5,853 tablets) were made. Heroin addicts used such tablets (crushed and mixed with heroin) to prolong the effect of the narcotic and ease withdrawal symptoms.\n\n"}
{"id": "40795219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40795219", "title": "Brunei Investment Agency", "text": "Brunei Investment Agency\n\nThe Brunei Investment Agency (BIA) is a government-owned corporation that reports to the Ministry of Finance of the Government of Brunei. Established in 1983, its offices are located in Bandar Seri Begawan at the Ministry of Finance HQ. Data on the agency's assets are not reported to the public and the Sultan and his assets, to a certain degree, are also incorporated in the agency; however the extent is unknown.\n\nPrior to Brunei's independence, the country's investment portfolio was administered by the British Crown. The BIA was established under an Act of the Government of Brunei and became functional from 1 July 1983.\n\nThe objective defined under the Act is to hold and manage the General Reserve Fund of the Government and all its external assets. The agency manages 40% of Brunei's foreign reserves, remainder being managed by eight foreign organizations.\n\nThe Sultan of Brunei and Yang de Pertuan have the authority to specify any other issues that need to be addressed by BIA.\n\nThe agency's principal tasks are to control and manage Brunei's general reserve funds and the growth of external holdings. It manages the country's income from oil exports in the form of foreign reserves.\n\nIts managing director, Dato Abdul Rahman Karim, is also a Permanent Secretary in the Finance Ministry. BIA mostly functions as the central bank in the country and has a strong financial base with funds generated from the country's gas and oil resources, apart from Worker's Provident Fund and other revenues.\n\nSome major foreign assets of BIA include the Dorchester Collection, which is a portfolio of luxury hotels established in 1996; a 10% holding in the Paterson Securities of Australia, and Bahagia Investment Corporation (Malaysia), dealing with real estate.\n\nBIA's investment portfolio, apart from investments within Brunei, covers diverse investments in bonds, equity, currency, gold and real estate. It has substantial investments in the US.\n\nBrunei investors bought The Dorchester on Park Lane in London in 1985 for US$50 million and in 1996 BIA formed the Dorchester Collection, a conglomerate of luxury hotels in UK, USA, France and Italy which includes it. BIA also owns The Beverly Hills Hotel in Los Angeles which was bought for US$185 million in 1987 as well as the Grand Hyatt Singapore Hotel. BIA also has a 10% holding in the Paterson Securities of Australia, and Bahagia Investment Corporation of Malaysia, dealing with real estate.\n\nIn June 2018 BIA acquired 6.6% of London listed Draper Esprit PLC for £20 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "37521774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37521774", "title": "Clique", "text": "Clique\n\nA clique (, , or ), in the social sciences, is a group of individuals who interact with one another and share similar interests. Interacting with cliques is part of normative social development regardless of gender, ethnicity or popularity. Although cliques are most commonly studied during adolescence and middle childhood development, they exist in all age groups. Typically, people in a clique will not have a complete open friend group, and can therefore \"ban\" members of the clique if they do something that is considered unacceptable, such as talking to someone generally disliked by the clique. People who are part of a clique are bonded together through shared and similar social characteristics such as race, ethnicity, economic status and physical appearance. \n\nBeing part of a clique is usually seen as a norm in society regardless of status. Cliques are most likely prevalent during teenage years, but are found in other age groups. Cliques may be formed among, for example, athletes, nerds, workmates, fraternities, sororities, and cheerleaders. Cohesive factors may include ethnicity, similar interest, and physical appearance. Members of a clique often isolate themselves as a group and tend to view the clique as superior to anyone outside the clique.\n\nWithin the concepts of sociology, cliques are a formation of two or more individuals who share bonding characteristics that allow for them to identify with one another to form a social network. Those within the group communicate and associate with one another more so than with those outside of the group. The formation of cliques can be identified within different social environments throughout the course their lives. One person may be part of multiple cliques, each forming and functioning independently from one another. Cliques are relevant in society due to the social influence or peer pressure that results from the interactions with individuals who share a common characteristic. The outcomes associated with clique formations may be endless with varying degrees of influence. So, a formal clique, such as a professional organization, would have a different kind of influence as compared to a social clique consisting of close friends.\n\nIn their article \"Social Isolation In America\", Paolo Parigi and Warner Henson II define social isolation as \"the degree of apartness of an entity; [which] may have structural or subjective interpretations.\" Social isolation may occur when cliques set themselves apart from other groups. \n\nA clique can also involve a high degree of social commitment to a specific group. A stronger level of commitment results in an individual having a reduced amount of interaction with other social groups. Cliquish behaviour often involves repetition in regards to activities, vernacular, preferences and manner, which can result in conflict with other cliques, creating \"outsiders\". Individuals can also experience social isolation within their own clique if their values and/or behaviour begin to differ from the rest of the group. \n\nDifferent factors affect the way cliques are established and who is included within its membership. In some cases, people are subconsciously placed in a clique by association. For example, joining a basketball team usually causes others to automatically perceive you as an \"athlete\". Many people may gravitate toward a clique subconsciously through the way they are perceived or whom they may be associated with. \n\nSharing similar interests is the most common way cliques are formed. As people interact with each other doing the simple things that they enjoy doing, they may find themselves drifting towards or becoming attracted to others that share the same passion. This usually causes one to gain confidence by being surrounded by people who share similar interests and it may cause an individual to feel more socially accepted.\n\nEthnicity usually plays a role according to setting or time frame. In today's society race still is prevalent, and therefore, cliques solely based on race have been formed. One memorable example of such a clique could be the Ku Klux Klan, a notorious white supremacy group.\n\nMembers of cliques often create their own distinct dress code and communicate with one another in a unique manner. As a result, this makes a clique unique and gives each member a reassuring feeling that they belong to that specific group. As these cliques come together it isn't hard to distinguish one from the other. For example, Deadheads, the followers of the band The Grateful Dead, identify one another with various forms of tie-dyed clothing.\n\nInteractions among members of a clique can also lead to organized social events, such as parties, significant dates, or private meetings. Clique members have a strong commitment to their respected group. In regards to this, being present at social events is seen as mandatory. Considering this, it shows the firmness of cliques and how people ultimately conform to these specific groups.\n\nTina Abbott, in her book \"Social and Personality Development\" goes into detail about how these members conform to their specific group. \"Conformity to peer groups is a prerequisite to achieving independence and autonomy as an adult... As the young person struggles to become independent from their parents, they use the security provided by the peer group and the self-confidence that comes with it, to take the final step towards independence\".\n\nHomophily is a term used to describe the way people tend to link up with others due to the fact that they share similar characteristics. The existence of homophily is also very prevalent in today's society. This concept can be seen as a possible main cause for clique formation.\n\nOn the subject of homophily, people come together and link up for many different reasons. The most typical reason is, simply, people who are close in location easily bond with each other. Also, people that meet through family, workplace, and any activities that place people in contact with others, often form personal relationships.\n\nIn some cases, the impact of homophily can be seen when people in cliques get married.\n\nThis involves meeting new people to form relationships and work together to gain better opportunity. Some people find that being associated with a clique is a way to find or gain a better chance at success. For example, many join a sorority or fraternity to gain an advantage at getting a job because they may be hired by someone who may be affiliated. Cliques go hand in hand in the way people network and are especially prevalent for those looking for jobs. \n\nEvery clique has some form of organization that makes up the network of social interaction. Informal clique networks are groups that do not have a legitimate organizational structure in which they can be established and dissolved in a shorter time period. An informal clique may consist of a person's friend group or co-workers while it may also identify other more informal groups, such as criminal gangs. On the other hand, a formal clique is a group with a socially accepted organization that is hierarchical in structure. A formal clique is composed of members who have identifiable roles and interactions with one another and is found in the structure of numerous professional organizations, businesses, and even family structure. Culture is a very influential factor in the organization of clique structures because the boundaries established through differences in cultural aspects are persistent, even when the membership varies from time to time. For example, the differences in language, beliefs, traditions, etc. have always created a distinct separation or boundary between groups of people even though the members of that particular group are constantly changing.\n\nThe formation and deformation of clique structures do not end with adolescence, even though the number of interactions with clique groups decreases and the type of groups may change. As individuals become adults, their social interpretations alter and the formation of their cliques originates from their immediate environment, rather than from common social characteristics. A clique should not be confused with a crowd because the smaller size and specific boundaries of a group is what causes the group formation to be considered a clique. A clique can develop in a number of different ways and within environments that consist of individuals who interact on a regular basis. The structural cohesion of the clique is the constant face-to-face interaction between members that can either create or dissolve the group, depending upon the level of interaction. If face-to-face interaction is established regularaly then cohesion between individuals will form. However, if the face-to-face interaction depreciates, then the cohesive social bond between said individuals will eventually dissolve.\n\nA clique may inhibit external social influence, by impacting the emotions, opinions or behaviors of group members. There are many ways in which the perception of information between members in a clique can influence other members on a greater level than if they had received the same information from a different source. For example, receiving information from a close friend or family member is interpreted and responded to in a different way compared to receiving the same information from someone who is not within the clique structure. The satisfaction, interaction, and closeness between the clique groups that we involve ourselves in develops and changes throughout the years. Yet, there is always a constant morphing of both the individual and the group as time goes on.\n\n"}
{"id": "1577010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1577010", "title": "Conflict atlas", "text": "Conflict atlas\n\nA conflict atlas, also called conflict partiture, is a graphical representation of the development of a particular conflict. The graph shows important events, appointments, and their interlinkage over time. \n\nThis instrument has been mentioned in F. Glasl's book Konfliktmanagement (2004).\n\n"}
{"id": "236609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236609", "title": "Coracle", "text": "Coracle\n\nThe coracle is a small, rounded, lightweight boat of the sort traditionally used in Wales, and also in parts of the West Country and in Ireland, particularly the River Boyne, and in Scotland, particularly the River Spey. The word is also used of similar boats found in India, Vietnam, Iraq and Tibet. The word \"coracle\" is an English spelling of the original Welsh \"cwrwgl\", cognate with Irish and Scottish Gaelic \"currach\", and is recorded in English text as early as the sixteenth century. Other historical English spellings include \"corougle\", \"corracle\", \"curricle\" and \"coricle\".\n\nThe structure is made of a framework of split and interwoven willow rods, tied with willow bark. The outer layer was originally an animal skin such as horse or bullock hide (corium), with a thin layer of tar to waterproof it – today replaced by tarred calico, canvas, or fibreglass. The Vietnamese/Asian version of the coracle is made of interwoven bamboo and waterproofed by using resin and coconut oil. Oval in shape and very similar to half a walnut shell, the coracle has a keel-less flat bottom to evenly spread the load across the structure and to reduce the required depth of water – often to only a few inches. This makes it ideal for use on rivers.\n\nEach coracle is tailored to the local river conditions. In general there is one design per river, but this is not always the case. The Teifi coracle, for instance, is flat-bottomed, as it is designed to negotiate shallow rapids, common on the river in the summer, while the Carmarthen coracle is rounder and deeper, because it is used in tidal waters on the Tywi, where there are no rapids. Teifi coracles are made from locally harvested wood – willow for the laths (body of the boat), hazel for the weave (\"Y bleth\" in Welsh – the bit round the top) – while Tywi coracles have been made from sawn ash for a long time. The working boats tend to be made from fibreglass these days. Teifi coracles use no nails, relying on the interweaving of the laths for structural coherence, whilst the Carmarthen ones use copper nails and no interweaving.\n\nThey are an effective fishing vessel because, when powered by a skilled person, they hardly disturb the water or the fish, and they can be easily manoeuvred with one arm, while the other arm tends to the net; two coracles to a net. The coracle is propelled by means of a broad-bladed paddle, which traditionally varies in design between different rivers. It is used in a sculling action, the blade describing a figure-of-eight pattern in the water. The paddle is used towards the front of the coracle, pulling the boat forward, with the paddler facing in the direction of travel.\n\nThe Welsh Coracle is intended to be carried on the back; Welsh saying is \"Llwyth dyn ei gorwgl\" (load of a man is his coracle).\n\nDesigned for use in swiftly flowing streams, the coracle has been in use in the British Isles for millennia, having been noted by Julius Caesar in his invasion of Britain in the mid first century BC, and used in his military campaigns in Spain. Remains interpreted as a possible coracle were found in an Early Bronze Age grave at Barns Farm near Dalgety Bay, and others have been described, from Corbridge and from near North Ferriby.\n\nWhere coracle fishing is performed by two coraclers the net is stretched across the river between the two coracles. The coraclers will paddle one handed, dragging the net in the other, and draw the net downstream. When a fish is caught, each hauls up an end of the net until the two boats are brought to touch, and the fish is then secured, using a priest (or knocker – a small block of wood) to stun the fish.\n\nIn the 1920s and 30s James Hornell visited hundreds of rivers in the British Isles to talk with remaining coracle makers and users. He documented the tradition in his book \"British Coracles and the Curraghs of Ireland\" (The Society for Nautical Research, 1938) containing drawings, diagrams and construction details gleaned from regular makers.\n\nCoracles are now seen regularly only in tourist areas of West Wales, and irregularly in Shropshire on the River Severn – a public house in Sundorne, Shrewsbury called \"The Coracle\" has a pub sign featuring a man using a coracle on a river. The Welsh Rivers Teifi and Tywi are the most common places to find coracles in Wales. On the Teifi they are most frequently seen between Cenarth, and Cilgerran and the village of Llechryd.\n\nIn 1974, a Welsh coracle piloted by Bernard Thomas (~1923–2014) of Llechryd crossed the English Channel to France in hours. The journey was undertaken to demonstrate how the Bull Boats of the Mandan Indians of North Dakota could have been copied from coracles introduced by Prince Madog in the 12th century.\n\nFor many years until 1979, Shrewsbury coracle maker Fred Davies achieved some notability amongst football fans; he would sit in his coracle during Shrewsbury Town FC home matches at Gay Meadow, and retrieve stray balls from the River Severn. Although Davies died in 1994, his legend is still associated with the club.\n\nThe Coracle Society is a UK-based organisation was founded in 1990 by its former president, Sir Peter Badge. The five founding aims of the Society were:\n\nThe current president of the Society is Dr Irving Finkel, Assistant Keeper in the Department if the Middle East at the British Museum, who is known for decoding a cuneiform tablet detailing Noah's Ark – the description of which resembles a very large coracle. The current Society chairperson is Jude Pilgrim, a committee member of the Heritage Lottery Fund. She recently played an instrumental part in setting up the Ironbridge Coracle Trust, formed to save the Eustace Rogers coracle hut in Ironbridge from demolition.\n\nThere are many Society members across the country who demonstrate at events and/or run coracle building courses, helping meet the Society's founding aims. A list of some of this year's events can be found on the official Coracle Society website.\n\nThe Society was present at the 2005 Shrewsbury River Festival, where they displayed various coracles on the River Severn. There is also an annual coracle regatta held in Ironbridge on the August Bank Holiday Monday every year. Organised by the Green Wood Centre until 2014 and the Ironbridge Coracle Trust from 2015, it is run on an informal basis whereby anyone with a coracle can take part in the event. Each year new entrants come with coracles made on the Bank Holiday weekend at the Green Wood Centre.\n\nMembers of the Society support the annual world championship coracle races in Shrewsbury, which raises funds in support of Macmillan Cancer Support.\n\nIn 2010, the Society celebrated its 20th anniversary with a number of events, including a morning of talks at the National Coracle Centre in Cenarth. In 2015, the Society celebrated its 25th anniversary at its founding home of St Fagans National History Museum. Events included a talk from Dr Irving Finkel about his experiences decoding the Noah tablet and making the accompanying Channel 4 documentary. The Society also supported the return of coracles and coracle regattas to Welshpool in 2015.\n\nThe design of the coracle makes it an unstable craft. Because it sits \"on\" the water, rather than \"in\" it, the vessel can easily be carried by currents and the wind. The Coracle Society has published guidelines for safely using coracles.\n\nThe oldest instructions yet found for construction of a coracle are contained in precise directions on a four-thousand-year-old cuneiform tablet supposedly dictated by the Mesopotamian god Enki to Atra-Hasis on how to build a round \"ark\". The tablet is about 2,250 years older than previously discovered accounts of flood myths, none of which contain such details. These instructions depict a vessel that is today known as a quffa, or Iraqi coracle.\n\nMany scholars believe that the basket that baby Moses was cast adrift in on the Nile (in Exodus 2:3) was in fact a coracle or quffa, based on the similarity of that passage to Neo-Assyrian legends depicting infants cast adrift on rivers in quffas.\n\nThe Irish curach (also \"currach\" or \"curragh\") is a similar, but larger, vessel still in use today. Curachs were also used in the west of Scotland:\n\nThe currachs in the River Spey were particularly similar to Welsh coracles. Other related craft include:\n\n\nIndian coracles (Tamil:பரிசல் (parical), Kannada:ಹರಗೋಲು,ತೆಪ್ಪ, (Haragōlu, tep - \"crab\")) are commonly found on the rivers Kaveri and Tungabhadra in Southern India. Coracles are primitive, light, bowl-shaped boats with a frame of woven grasses, reeds, or saplings covered with hides. Indian coracles are considered to have been in existence since prehistoric times, and are a major tourist attraction at the Hogenakkal falls on the Kaveri river. Although these boats were originally designed for general transport, they have recently been used mostly for giving tourists rides.\n\nThe coracles found in the Hogenakkal are of two types, which differ mainly in size. The smaller ones are about 6.2 feet (1.9 metres) in diameter, and are used primarily for fishing. The larger ones, which measure up to 8.4 feet (2.6 metres) in diameter, are used for tourists.\n\nIndian coracles are either saucer or bowl shaped and circular, with the greatest diameter across the mouth. The circular coracles in Iraq are very similar, but they have convexly curved sides, and thus the mouth is not the widest part. Indian coracles are on average about 7.3 feet (2.24 metres) in diameter, but can still hold eight people at a time. Other kinds of coracles usually can only hold one person. Indian coracles, and coracles in general, are made of bamboo and take about a day to build, given all the necessary materials. The bottoms of the boats are covered in hides, or sometimes with sheets of plastic, in order to make them waterproof. In modern times, a sheet of LDPE plastic is often embedded between two layers of bamboo. Sometimes the bottom of the craft is tarred to make it waterproof. Coracles are steered and propelled using a single paddle from the front of the boat in the direction of travel, making them unique.\n\nThe boats are made primarily from bamboo. The first step in construction is a basic framework woven from bamboo sticks. Then the bottom is further reinforced with the addition of more bamboo sticks, making the boat's base sturdy. Once the bottom is structurally sound, the lowest points of the sides are defined by a circumferential band of three flat strips of bamboo woven into the existing lattice. The sides of the boat are then made with 20 to 30 adjacent strips of bamboo. Finally this framework is again strengthened by lightweight bamboo, making sure that the sides are not heavier than the base.\n\nThe boats had earlier been waterproofed by using hides of animals, but these days plastic sheets are used for this purpose as they are cheaper as well as easily available. The waterproofing is further enhanced by a layer of tar, a feature which is common in most contemporary coracles.\n\n\nIraqi coracles, called quffa or kuphar (Arabic: قفة), have been used as ferries, lighters, fishing vessels, and water taxis on the Tigris and Euphrates rivers since at least the 9th century BC. They share details with the myriad types of coracle used across Eurasia. Modern quffas can be up to 18 feet (5.5 m) in diameter and carry four to five tons. Modern quffas are of similar size and construction as their ancient counterparts, with both being made from woven bundles of reeds or basketry waterproofed with bitumen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42552633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42552633", "title": "Corruption in Serbia", "text": "Corruption in Serbia\n\nCorruption levels are perceived to be high by surveyed residents of Serbia, and public trust in key institutions remains low.\n\nPublic procurement, public administration recruitment processes, mining and rail operations are sectors with a serious problem of conflict of interest. The European Commission has raised concern over Serbia's judiciary, police, health and education sectors that are particularly vulnerable to corruption. Corruption is considered the most problematic factor for doing business in Serbia, followed by inefficient government bureaucracy.\n\nEven though Serbia has made progress in the investigation of high-level corruption cases, the implementation of anti-corruption laws is weak. According to Global Corruption Barometer 2016, 22% of Serbian citizens who had contact with public institutions included in research (traffic police, public health, educational system, courts - civil litigation, public services that issue official documents, departments responsible for social welfare), had paid bribe at least once in the previous year. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 77th place out of 180 countries. Transparency Serbia concluded at CPI's presentation that systemic measures for preventing corruption had not implemented and repressive activities in fight against corruption, highly exploited by the media, hadn’t had court epilogue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3611963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3611963", "title": "Delta smelt", "text": "Delta smelt\n\nThe delta smelt (\"Hypomesus transpacificus\") is an endangered slender-bodied smelt, about long, in the family Osmeridae. Endemic to the upper Sacramento-San Joaquin Estuary of California, it mainly inhabits the freshwater-saltwater mixing zone of the estuary, except during its spawning season, when it migrates upstream to fresh water following winter \"first flush\" flow events (around March to May). It functions as an indicator species for the overall health of the Delta's ecosystem.\n\nBecause of its one-year lifecycle and relatively low fecundity, it is very susceptible to changes in the environmental conditions of its native habitat. Efforts to protect the endangered fish from further decline have focused on limiting or modifying the large-scale pumping activities of state and federal water projects at the southern end of the estuary, thereby limiting water available to farming. However, these efforts have not prevented the species from becoming functionally extinct in the wild.\n\nThe delta smelt is one of five currently recognized species within the genus \"Hypomesus\", which is part of the larger smelt family, Osmeridae. The genus has been subject to many revisions since it was first classified by Gill in 1863. The first major revision occurred in 1963, when the family Osmeridae was re-examined by Canadian ichthyologist Donald Evan McAllister. Expanding on Japanese researcher Hamada's earlier determination that \"H. olidus\" was not a monolithic widespread species, but rather one of three distinct species of \"Hypomesus\", McAllister assigned them new names, and further delineated what he believed were four subspecies. This was the first description of \"H. transpacificus\", named for its supposed occurrence on both sides of the Pacific, and also \"to the friendship of Japanese and Canadian ichthyologists.\" He separated these geographically isolated populations into separate subspecies: \"H. t. transpacificus\" and \"H. t. nipponensis\".\n\nModern analysis of the genus would elevate all of McAllister's subspecies to full species status, based on fin ray counts and the number of chromatophores between their mandibles, a change which genetic analysis has supported. In fact, genetic analysis would conclude that despite their morphological similarities, \"H. nipponensis\" and \"H. transpacificus\" are actually members of different phylogenetic clades.\n\nThe abbreviated distribution of \"Hypomesus\" species along both the east and west sides of the Pacific Ocean suggests that their common ancestor had a range that would have crossed the Pacific. Researchers have hypothesized that climatic changes may have reduced the range of the ancestral species during cooling periods, which would have created a reproductive barrier, allowing speciation to occur. Although the low number of species in the genus and high levels of homoplasy have frustrated attempts to determine whether the northern Pacific \"H. olidus\" or \"H. nipponensis\" are the basal species of \"Hypomesus\", the most recent speciation event in \"Hypomesus\" is known to have been between the two native east Pacific species, \"H. pretiosus\" and \"H. transpacificus\". This is plausibly due to a geographic isolation of a widespread eastern Pacific ancestor, of which some members were isolated in a freshwater basin in western California, possibly in the lakes that would have been located in the southern San Joaquin Valley during the Pleistocene epoch.\n\nThe delta smelt is endemic to the Sacramento–San Joaquin River Delta in California, where it is distributed from the Suisun Bay upstream through the delta in Contra Costa, Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Solano Counties. The delta smelt is a pelagic (lives in the open water column away from the bottom) and euryhaline species (tolerant of a wide salinity range). It has been collected from estuarine waters with salinities up to 14 parts per thousand.\n\nHistorically, delta smelt were distributed from San Pablo Bay upstream to Sacramento on the Sacramento River and Mossdale on the San Joaquin River, which varied seasonally and with freshwater outflow. Today, large areas of historic delta smelt habitat and designated critical habitat have become unsuitable for some life history stages of the species, though key environmental characteristics (e.g. temperature, salinity, water depth) of these areas have not changed. Delta smelt disappeared from the southern portion of their historic habitat in the late 1970s, which coincides with substantial increases in the amounts of water exported from the delta. Water export operations likely have a great effect on the distribution, abundance, and genetic diversity of delta smelt.\n\nThe delta smelt is semelparous, living one year and dying after its first spawning. Their spawning occurs in spring in river channels and tidally influenced backwater sloughs upstream of the mixing zone where salt water meets fresh water. The Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers then transport the delta smelt larvae downstream to the mixing zone, normally located in the Suisun Bay. Young delta smelt then feed and grow in the mixing zone before starting their upstream spawning migration in late fall or early winter.\n\nThe delta smelt is preyed upon by larger fish, especially striped bass and largemouth bass, which are introduced species in the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta.\n\nHistorically, delta smelt were relatively abundant in the upper Sacramento-San Joaquin Estuary, with populations declining dramatically in the 1980s. They were listed as threatened by both federal and state governments in 1993, and sustained record-low abundance indices, prompted their listing as endangered under the California Endangered Species Act in 2010. Critical habitat was listed for delta smelt on December 19, 1994.\n\nDelta smelt are threatened with extinction due to anthropogenic alterations to their ecosystem, including urbanization, non-native species, water diversions, contaminants, and the conversion of complex tidal habitats to leveed channels. A survey in April 2015 found only one individual delta smelt. Although the fish is almost extinct in the wild, extant populations remain in a captive-breeding program at UC Davis and in a fish hatchery operated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service near Shasta Dam.\n\nIn 2005, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) issued a biological opinion that the Central Valley Project and the California State Water Project were not having an adverse effect on the recovery of the delta smelt. The Natural Resources Defense Council sued, and in 2007, Fresno U.S. District Court Judge Oliver Wanger found the biological opinion was arbitrary and capricious and ordered protections for the delta smelt while the document was redone.\n\nIn 2008, at the close of the court's deadline, the FWS issued a new biological opinion. This time, the FWS came to the opposite of its earlier conclusion, finding the water projects were jeopardizing the continued existence of the delta smelt. When six new plaintiffs sued, Judge Wanger preliminarily ordered the FWS to give him weekly justifications of delta flow restrictions and appointed four scientists as his own expert witnesses. After haranguing FWS expert witnesses as “zealots”, in December 2010 Judge Wanger, again, found the FWS BioOp was arbitrary and capricious and, again, ordered the FWS to complete a new one.\n\nIn 2014, a divided panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed Judge Wanger. While the new biological opinion was “a ponderous, chaotic document, overwhelming in size”, it was found not arbitrary and capricious. The Ninth Circuit affirmed that the water projects were jeopardizing the existence of the delta smelt, and given \"TVA v. Hill\"'s command that endangered species must be saved \"whatever the cost\", Circuit Judge Jay Bybee opined that California could only use the smelts' water after receiving an exemption from the God Squad. In January 2015 the U.S. Supreme Court declined review without comment.\n\nThe smelt is unpopular among farmers, with a common complaint being that 200,000 acres of farmland have been left fallow due to \"four buckets of minnows\". Although allegations have been made that this protection has hurt California's agricultural sector, with the devastation of hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland and the loss of tens of thousands of jobs in the Central Valley, a 2009 UC Davis study estimated that job losses due to smelt protection were closer to 5,000. An additional 16,000 job losses in the Central Valley were attributed to the drought California had been experiencing in recent years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9613511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9613511", "title": "Digital economy", "text": "Digital economy\n\nDigital economy refers to an economy that is based on digital computing technologies, although we increasingly perceive this as conducting business through markets based on the internet and the World Wide Web. The digital economy is also sometimes called the \"Internet Economy\", \"New Economy\", or \"Web Economy\". Increasingly, the digital economy is intertwined with the traditional economy, making a clear delineation harder.\n\nThe term 'Digital Economy' was first mentioned in Japan by a Japanese professor and research economist in the midst of Japan's recession of the 1990s. In the west the term followed and was coined in Don Tapscott's 1995 book \"The Digital Economy: Promise and Peril in the Age of Networked Intelligence\". This was among the first books to consider how the Internet would change the way we did business.\n\nAccording to Thomas Mesenbourg (2001), three main components of the 'Digital Economy' concept can be identified:\n\nBut, as Bill Imlah comments, new applications are blurring these boundaries and adding complexity; for example, consider social media and Internet search.\n\nIn this new economy, digital networking and communication infrastructures provide a global platform over which people and organizations devise strategies, interact, communicate, collaborate and search for information.\nMore recently, \"Digital Economy\" has been defined as the branch of economics studying zero marginal cost intangible goods over the Net.\n\nThe Digital Economy is worth three trillion dollars today. This is about 30% of the S&P 500, six times the U.S.’ annual trade deficit or more than the GDP of the United Kingdom. What is impressive is the fact that this entire value has been generated in the past 20 years since the launch of the Internet.\n\nIt is widely accepted that the growth of the digital economy has widespread impact on the whole economy. Various attempts at categorizing the size of the impact on traditional sectors have been made.\n\nThe Boston Consulting Group discussed “four waves of change sweeping over consumer goods and retail”, for instance.\n\nIn 2012, Deloitte ranked six industry sectors as having a “short fuse” and to experience a \"big bang” as a result of the digital economy.\n\nTelstra, a leading Australian telecommunications provider, describes how competition will become more global and more intense as a result of the digital economy.\n\nGiven its expected broad impact, traditional firms are actively assessing how to respond to the changes brought about by the digital economy.\nFor corporations, the timing of their response is of the essence.\nBanks are trying to innovate and use digital tools to improve their traditional business.\nGovernments are investing in infrastructure. In 2013, the Australian National Broadband Network, for instance, aimed to provide a 1 GB/sec download speed fiber-based broadband to 93% of the population over ten years.\n\nThe Digital Economy uses a tenth of the world's electricity. The move to the cloud has also caused the rise in electricity use and carbon emissions by the digital economy. A server room at a data center can use, on average, enough electricity to power 180,000 homes. The Digital Economy can be used for mining Bitcoin which, according to Digiconomist, uses an average of 70.69 TWh of electricity per year. The number of households that can be powered using the amount of power that bitcoin mining uses is around 6.5 million in the US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40634643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40634643", "title": "Feminist empiricism", "text": "Feminist empiricism\n\nFeminist empiricism is a perspective within feminist research that combines the objectives and observations of feminism with the research methods and empiricism. Feminist empiricism is typically connected to mainstream notions of positivism. Feminist empiricism proposes that feminist theories can be objectively proven through evidence. Feminist empiricism critiques what it perceives to be inadequacies and biases within mainstream research methods, including positivism.\n\nFeminist empiricism is one of three main feminist epistemological perspectives. The other two are standpoint feminism and post-structural/postmodern feminism.\n\nIn international relations rationalist feminism employs feminist empiricism to explain the political landscape. Rationalist feminism examines state, transnational and institutional actors, and specifically looks at causal relationships between these actors and gender issues. Quantitative data is used to relate gender to these phenomena. This may be done by directly correlating gender data to specific state behaviors, or indirectly by examining a \"gender gap\" through indirect causal relationships. Popular perspectives linked to rationalist feminism within international relations include conventional constructivism and quantitative peace research.\n\nAmong other criticisms, standpoint feminism argues that feminist empiricism cannot explain the way the political world works because the foundations on which it is built are based on the same gendered assumptions that all mainstream scientific inquiries face. Feminist empiricism argues that its epistemological outlook, lets it tackle this gender bias.\n\nPost-structural/post-modern feminist epistemology is entirely discursive, seeking to develop understanding through social analysis; to interpret rather than explain feminist theories in the political world. \n\nFeminist empiricism is more likely to favor qualitative data. Objective measurements are seen as important to eliminating the gender bias that exists. Post-structuralism is inherently opposed to the idea of an objective truth in the social sciences. The belief is that those who study within the human sciences are ensnared by the same structures that affect the society in which they study. Post-structural feminism critiques the belief that any viewpoint is impartial; knowledge is not found but constructed. A specific result of this disagreement is the way in which the two theories view gender: feminist empiricism claims that gender variables are based on biological sex, while post-structural/post-modern feminism sees gender as a socially constituted entity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2347345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347345", "title": "Fuzhou dialect", "text": "Fuzhou dialect\n\nThe Fuzhou dialect, (; FR: ) also Fuzhounese, Foochow or Hok-chiu, is the prestige variety of the Eastern Min branch of Min Chinese spoken mainly in the Mindong region of eastern Fujian province. Like many other varieties of Chinese, the Fuzhou dialect is dominated by monosyllabic morphemes which carry lexical tones, and has a mainly analytic syntax. While the Eastern Min branch that it belongs to is closer to Southern Min than to other Sinitic branches such as Mandarin or Hakka, they are still not mutually intelligible.\n\nCentered in Fuzhou City, the Fuzhou dialect covers eleven cities and counties: Fuzhou City Proper, Pingnan, Gutian, Luoyuan, Minqing, Lianjiang (including Matsu), Minhou, Changle, Yongtai, Fuqing and Pingtan. It is also the second local language in many northern and middle Fujian cities and counties such as Nanping, Shaowu, Shunchang, Sanming and Youxi.\n\nFuzhou dialect is also widely spoken in some regions abroad, especially in Southeastern Asian countries like Malaysia and Indonesia. The city of Sibu in Malaysia is called \"New Fuzhou\" due to the influx of immigrants there in the late 19th century and early 1900s. Similarly, quite a significant number of Fuzhounese have emigrated to Singapore, Taiwan, United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand in the decades since China's economic reform.\n\nIn older works, the variety is called \"Foochow dialect\", based on the Chinese postal romanization of Fuzhou.\nIn Chinese, it is sometimes called (; pinyin: \"Fúzhōuyǔ\"). Native speakers also refer to it as Bàng-uâ (), meaning \"the everyday language.\"\n\nIn Singapore and Malaysia, it is often referred to as \"Hokchiu\" (), which is the pronunciation of Fuzhou in the Southern Min Hokkien language, or \"Huchiu\" (), which is the pronunciation of Fuzhou in the Eastern Min language of Fuzhou itself. Eastern Min and Southern Min are both spoken in the same Fujian province, but the name Hokkien, while etymologically derived from the same characters as Fujian (福建), is used in Southeast Asia and the English press to refer specifically to Southern Min, which has a larger number of speakers both within Fujian and in the Chinese diaspora of Southeast Asia.\n\nAfter the Qin Dynasty conquered the Minyue kingdom of southeast China in 110 BC, Han Chinese people began settling what is now Fujian province. \nThe Old Chinese language brought by the mass influx of Han immigrants from Northern area, along with the influences of local languages, became the early Proto-Min language from which Eastern Min, Southern Min, and other Min languages arose. Within this Min branch of Chinese, Eastern Min and Southern Min both form part of a Coastal Min subgroup, and are thus closer to each other than to Inland Min groups such as Northern Min and Central Min.\n\nThe famous book \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\", which was compiled in the 17th century, is the first and the most full-scale rime book that provides a systematic guide to character reading for people speaking or learning the Fuzhou dialect. It once served to standardize the language and is still widely quoted as an authoritative reference book in modern academic research in Min Chinese phonology.\n\nIn 1842, Fuzhou was open to Westerners as a treaty port after the signing of the Treaty of Nanjing. But due to the language barrier, however, the first Christian missionary base in this city did not take place without difficulties. In order to convert Fuzhou people, those missionaries found it very necessary to make a careful study of the Fuzhou dialect. Their most notable works are listed below:\n\nDuring the Second World War, some Japanese scholars became passionate about studying Fuzhou dialect, believing that it could be beneficial to the rule of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. One of their most famous works was the \"Japanese-Chinese Translation: Fuzhou Dialect\" () published in 1940 in Taipei, in which katakana was used to represent Fuzhou pronunciation.\n\nBy the end of the Qing Dynasty, Fuzhou society had been largely monolingual. But for decades the Chinese government has discouraged the use of the vernacular in school education and in media, so the number of Mandarin speakers has been greatly boosted. Recent reports indicate that less than 50% of young people in Fuzhou are able to speak Fuzhou dialect.\n\nIn Mainland China, the Fuzhou dialect has been officially listed as an Intangible Cultural Heritage and promotion work is being systematically carried out to preserve its use. In Matsu, currently controlled by the Republic of China located in Taiwan, the teaching of Fuzhou dialect has been successfully introduced into elementary schools.\n\nLike all Chinese varieties, the Fuzhou dialect is a tonal language, and has extensive sandhi rules in the initials, rimes, and tones. These complicated rules make Fuzhou dialect one of the most difficult Chinese varieties.\n\nThere are seven original tones in Fuzhou dialect, compared with the eight tones of Middle Chinese:\n\nThe sample characters are taken from the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\".\n\nIn \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\", the Fuzhou dialect is described as having eight tones, which explains how the book got its title (\"Bāyīn\" means \"eight tones\"). That name, however, is somewhat misleading, because Ĭng-siōng () and Iòng-siōng () are identical in tone contour; therefore, only seven tones exist.\n\nĬng-ĭk and Iòng-ĭk (or so-called entering tone) syllables end with either velar stop or a glottal stop . However, they are both now realized as a glottal stop, though the two phonemes maintain distinct sandhi behavior in connected speech.\n\nBesides those seven tones listed above, two new tonal values, \"˨˩\" (Buáng-ĭng-ké̤ṳ, ) and (Buáng-iòng-ké̤ṳ, ) occur in connected speech (see Tonal sandhi below).\n\nThe rules of tonal sandhi in Fuzhou dialect are complicated, even compared with those of other Min dialects. When two or more than two morphemes combine into a word, the tonal value of the last morpheme remains stable but in most cases those of the preceding morphemes change. For example, \", \" and \" are words of Iòng-ĭk () with the same tonal value , and are pronounced , , and , respectively. When combined together as the phrase \" (Independence Day), \" changes its tonal value to , and \" changes its to , therefore the pronunciation as a whole is .\n\nThe two-syllable tonal sandhi rules are shown in the table below (the rows give the first syllable's original citation tone, while the columns give the citation tone of the second syllable):\n\nĬng-ĭk-gák () are Ĭng-ĭk () syllables ending with and Ĭng-ĭk-ék () are those with . Both are usually realized as the glottal stop by most modern speakers of the Fuzhou dialect, but they are distinguished both in the above tone sandhi behavior, and in initial assimilation that occurs after them.\n\nThe three patterns of tone sandhi exhibited in the Fuzhou dialect may be a reflex of the voicing split from Middle Chinese into different registers. This is based on a comparison with the tonal sandhi system of the subdialect of Lianjiang, a very similar but more conservative Eastern Min variety, where three tonal categories on the penultimate syllables (\"Yin\" / Ĭng / from unvoiced consonants in Middle Chinese; \"Yang\" / Iòng / from voiced consonants in Middle Chinese; and a third \"Shang\" / Siōng / tonal category from the Middle Chinese \"rising tone\" 上聲 where the Yin and Yang registers have merged) interact with the tonal category of the final syllable to form the sandhi pattern in Lianjiang.Although the effect of the historical tonal registers from Middle Chinese is clear in Lianjiang, the Fuzhou tonal sandhi system has deviated from the older pattern, in that the tone Iòng-ké̤ṳ 陽去, which is from the historical \"Yang\" tonal register, now follows the sandhi rules for the \"Yin\" register; and the sandhi tone Ĭng-ĭk-gák 陰入乙 , which comes from the historical \"Yin\" register, follow the sandhi rules for the merged \"Shang\" tone. \n\nThe tonal sandhi rules of more than two syllables display further complexities:\n\nFor four-syllable words, they can be treated as two sequential two-syllable units, and undergo two-syllable tone sandhi accordingly; in faster speech, the first two syllables are reduced to a half dark departing tone, and the remaining two syllables undergo two-syllable tone sandhi.\n\nThere are fifteen initials, including a zero initial realized as a glottal stop :\n\nThe Chinese characters in the brackets are also sample characters from \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\".\n\nSome speakers find it difficult to distinguish between the initials and .\n\nNo labiodental phonemes, such as or , exist in Fuzhou dialect, which is one of the most conspicuous characteristics shared by all branches in the Min Family.\n\nIn Fuzhou dialect, there are various kinds of initial assimilation, all of which are progressive. When two or more than two syllables combine into a word, the initial of the first syllable stays unchanged while those of the following syllables, in most cases, change to match its preceding phoneme, i.e., the coda of its preceding syllable. As with the rime changes, initial assimilation is not as mandatory as tone sandhi in connected speech, and its presence and absence may indicate different parts of speech, different meanings of a single word, or different relationships between groups of words syntactically.\n\nThe table below shows the seven vowel phonemes of Fuzhou dialect.\n\nIn Fuzhou dialect codas , , and have all merged as ; and , , have all merged as . Seven vowel phonemes, together with the codas and , are organized into forty-six rimes.\n\nAs has been mentioned above, there are theoretically two different entering tonal codas in Fuzhou dialect: and . But for most Fuzhou dialect speakers, those two codas are only distinguishable when in the tonal sandhi or initial assimilation.\n\nSome rimes come in pairs in the above table: the one to the left represents a close rime (), while the other represents an open rime (). The close/open rimes are closely related with the tones. As single syllables, the tones of Ĭng-bìng (), Siōng-siăng (), Iòng-bìng () and Iòng-ĭk () have close rimes while Ĭng-ké̤ṳ (), Ĭng-ĭk () and Iòng-ké̤ṳ () have the open rimes. In connected speech, an open rime shifts to its close counterpart in the tonal sandhi.\n\nFor instance, \" (hók) is a Ĭng-ĭk syllable and is pronounced and \" (ciŭ) a Ĭng-bìng syllable with the pronunciation of . When these two syllables combine into the word \" (Hók-ciŭ, Fuzhou), \" changes its tonal value from to and, simultaneously, shifts its rime from to , so the phrase is pronounced . While in the word \" (Dṳ̆ng-guók, China), \" is a Ĭng-bìng syllable and therefore its close rime never changes, though it does change its tonal value from to in the tonal sandhi.\n\nAs with initial assimilation, the closing of open rimes in connected speech is not as compulsory than tone sandhi. It has been described as \"a sort of switch that flips on and off to indicate different things\", so its presence or absence can indicate different meanings or different syntactic functions.\n\nThe phenomenon of close/open rimes is nearly unique to the Fuzhou dialect and this feature makes it especially intricate and hardly intelligible even to speakers of other Min varieties.\n\nThe neutral tone is attested in the Fuzhou dialect, as well as being found in the Southern Min group and in varieties of Mandarin Chinese, including Beijing-based Standard Mandarin. It is commonly found in some modal particles, aspect markers, and some question-forming negative particles that come after units made up of one tone sandhi domain, and in some adverbs, aspect markers, conjunctions etc. that come before such units. These two types, the post-nucleus and the pre-nucleus neutral tone, exhibit different tone sandhi behavior. Disyllabic neutral tone words are also attested, as are some inter-nuclei neutral tones, mainly connected to the use of 蜀 \"siŏh\" // in verbal reduplication.\n\nMost words in Fuzhou dialect have cognates in other varieties of Chinese, so a non-Fuzhou speaker would find it much easier to understand Fuzhou dialect written in Chinese characters than spoken in conversation. However, false friends do exist: for example, \"\" (mŏ̤h sá̤-nê) means \"don't be too polite\" or \"make yourself at home\", \"\" (nguāi dó̤i-chiū nṳ̄ sā̤ uāng) means \"I help you wash dishes\", \"\" (ĭ gâe̤ng ĭ lâu-mā lā̤ uŏng-gă) means \"he and his wife are quarreling (with each other)\", etc. Mere knowledge of Mandarin vocabulary does not help one catch the meaning of these sentences.\n\nThe majority of Fuzhou dialect vocabulary dates back to more than 1,200 years ago. Some daily-used words are even preserved as they were in the Tang Dynasty, which can be illustrated by a poem of a famous Chinese poet Gu Kuang. In his poem \"Jiǎn\" (), Gu Kuang explicitly noted:\n\nIn Fuzhou dialect, \" (giāng) and \" (nòng-mâ) are still in use today.\n\nQuite a few words from Old Chinese have retained the original meanings for thousands of years, while their counterparts in Mandarin Chinese have either fallen out of daily use or varied to different meanings.\n\nThis table shows some Fuzhou dialect words from Old Chinese, as contrasted to Mandarin Chinese:\n\nThis table shows some words that are used in Fuzhou dialect close to as they were in Classical Chinese, while the meanings in Mandarin Chinese have altered:\n\nSome daily used words, shared by all Min varieties, came from the ancient Minyue language. Such as follows:\nThe literary and colloquial readings is a feature commonly found in all Chinese dialects throughout China. Literary readings are mainly used in formal phrases and written language, while the colloquial ones are basically used in vulgar phrases and spoken language.\n\nThis table displays some widely used characters in Fuzhou dialect which have both literary and colloquial readings:\n\nThe First Opium War, also known as the First Anglo-Chinese War, was ended in 1842 with the signing of the Treaty of Nanjing, which forced the Qing government to open Fuzhou to all British traders and missionaries. Since then, quite a number of churches and Western-style schools have been established. Consequently, some English words came into Fuzhou dialect, but without fixed written forms in Chinese characters. The most frequently used words are listed below:\n\nSome common phrases in Fuzhou dialect:\n\nMost of the words of Fuzhou dialect stem from Old Chinese and can therefore be written in Chinese characters. Many books published in Qing Dynasty have been written in this traditional way, such as the famous \"Mǐndū Biéjì\" (, Foochow Romanized: Mìng-dŭ Biék-gé). However, Chinese characters as the writing system for Fuzhou dialect do have many shortcomings.\n\nFirstly, a great number of words are unique to Fuzhou dialect, so that they can only be written in informal ways. For instance, the word \"mâ̤\", a negative word, has no common form. Some write it as \" or \", both of which share with it an identical pronunciation but has a totally irrelevant meaning; and others prefer to use a newly created character combining \" and \", but this character is not included in most fonts.\n\nSecondly, Fuzhou dialect has been excluded from the educational system for many decades. As a result, many if not all take for granted that Fuzhou dialect does not have a formal writing system and when they have to write it, they tend to misuse characters with a similar Mandarin Chinese enunciation. For example, \" (â̤ sāi)\", meaning \"okay\", are frequently written as \"\" because they are uttered almost in the same way.\n\nFoochow Romanized, also known as Bàng-uâ-cê (, BUC for short) or Hók-ciŭ-uâ Lò̤-mā-cê (), is a romanized orthography for Fuzhou dialect adopted in the middle of 19th century by American and English missionaries. It had varied at different times, and became standardized several decades later. Foochow Romanized was mainly used inside of Church circles, and was taught in some Mission Schools in Fuzhou.\n\nMǐnqiāng Kuàizì (, Foochow Romanized: \"Mìng-kiŏng Kuái-cê\"), literally meaning \"Fujian Colloquial Fast Characters\", is a Qieyin System () for Fuzhou dialect designed by Chinese scholar and calligrapher Li Jiesan () in 1896.\n\nBelow are Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights written in the Fuzhou dialect, using both Foochow Romanized (left) and Chinese characters (center).\n[tě.ěiʔ.téu]<BR>\n[sū.jū.nø̂ŋ.séiŋ.kjǎ.lî.tsěu.sěi.tsø̌y.jú.kî,]<BR>\n[pěiŋ.tsʰjá.tjóʔ.tsóuŋ.ŋjêŋ.kǎøŋ.kwôŋ.líʔ.sjǒŋ.ěiʔ.lúʔ.pîŋ.tēiŋ]<BR>\n[í.kǎuʔ.nø̂ŋ.ǒu.lī.sèiŋ.kǎøŋ.ljôŋ.síŋ,]<BR>\n[pěiŋ.tsʰjá.èiŋ.kāi.ī.hjáŋ.tjě.kwáŋ.hjě.kî.tsíŋ.lî.hǒu.sjóŋ.tòi.tài]<BR>\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "94535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=94535", "title": "Generation", "text": "Generation\n\nA generation is \"all of the people born and living at about the same time, regarded collectively\". It can also be described as, \"the average period, generally considered to be about thirty years, during which children are born and grow up, become adults, and begin to have children of their own\". In kinship terminology, it is a structural term designating the parent-child relationship. It is also known as biogenesis, reproduction, or procreation in the biological sciences.\n\n\"Generation\" is also often used synonymously with \"cohort\" in social science; under this formulation it means \"people within a delineated population who experience the same significant events within a given period of time\". Generations in this sense of birth cohort, also known as \"social generations\", are widely used in popular culture, and have been the basis for sociological analysis. Serious analysis of generations began in the nineteenth century, emerging from an increasing awareness of the possibility of permanent social change and the idea of youthful rebellion against the established social order. Some analysts believe that a generation is one of the fundamental social categories in a society, while others view its importance as being overshadowed by other factors including class, gender, race, education, among others.\n\nThe word \"generate\" comes from the Latin \"generāre\", meaning \"to beget\". The word \"generation\" as a \"cohort\" in social science signifies the entire body of individuals born and living at about the same time, most of whom are approximately the same age and have similar ideas, problems, and attitudes (e.g., Beat Generation and Lost Generation).\n\nA familial generation is a group of living beings constituting a single step in the line of descent from an ancestor. In developed nations the average familial generation length is in the high 20s and has even reached 30 years in some nations. Factors such as greater industrialisation and demand for cheap female labour, urbanisation, delayed first pregnancy and a greater uncertainty in relationship stability have all contributed to the increase of the generation length from the late 18th century to the present. These changes can be attributed to both social factors, such as GDP and state policy, and related individual-level variables, particularly a woman's educational attainment. Conversely, generation length has changed little and remains in the low 20s in less developed nations.\n\nAn intergenerational rift in the nuclear family, between the parents and two or more of their children, is one of several possible dynamics of a dysfunctional family. Coalitions in families are subsystems within families with more rigid boundaries and are thought to be a sign of family dysfunction.\n\nSocial generations are cohorts of people born in the same date range and who share similar cultural experiences.\nThe idea of a social generation, in the sense that it is used today, gained currency in the 19th century. Prior to that the concept \"generation\" had generally referred to family relationships and not broader social groupings. In 1863, French lexicographer Emile Littré had defined a generation as, \"all men living more or less at the same time\".\n\nSeveral trends promoted a new idea of generations, as the 19th century wore on, of a society divided into different categories of people based on age. These trends were all related to the processes of modernisation, industrialisation, or westernisation, which had been changing the face of Europe since the mid-18th century. One was a change in mentality about time and social change. The increasing prevalence of enlightenment ideas encouraged the idea that society and life were changeable, and that civilization could progress. This encouraged the equation of youth with social renewal and change. Political rhetoric in the 19th century often focused on the renewing power of youth influenced by movements such as Young Italy, Young Germany, Sturm und Drang, the German Youth Movement, and other romantic movements. By the end of the 19th century, European intellectuals were disposed toward thinking of the world in generational terms—in terms of youth rebellion and emancipation.\n\nTwo important contributing factors to the change in mentality were the change in the economic structure of society. Because of the rapid social and economic change, young men particularly were less beholden to their fathers and family authority than they had been. Greater social and economic mobility allowed them to flout their authority to a much greater extent than had traditionally been possible. Additionally, the skills and wisdom of fathers were often less valuable than they had been due to technological and social change. During this time, the period between childhood and adulthood, usually spent at university or in military service, was also increased for many people entering white-collar jobs. This category of people was very influential in spreading the ideas of youthful renewal.\n\nAnother important factor was the breakdown of traditional social and regional identifications. The spread of nationalism and many of the factors that created it (a national press, linguistic homogenisation, public education, suppression of local particularities) encouraged a broader sense of belonging beyond local affiliations. People thought of themselves increasingly as part of a society, and this encouraged identification with groups beyond the local.Auguste Comte was the first philosopher to make a serious attempt to systematically study generations. In \"Cours de philosophie positive\" Comte suggested that social change is determined by generational change and in particular conflict between successive generations. As the members of a given generation age, their \"instinct of social conservation\" becomes stronger, which inevitably and necessarily brings them into conflict with the \"normal attribute of youth\"—innovation. Other important theorists of the 19th century were John Stuart Mill and Wilhelm Dilthey.\n\nSociologist Karl Mannheim was a seminal figure in the study of generations. He elaborated a theory of generations in his 1923 essay \"The Problem of Generations\". He suggested that there had been a division into two primary schools of study of generations until that time. Firstly, positivists such as Comte measured social change in designated life spans. Mannheim argued that this reduced history to \"a chronological table\". The other school, the \"romantic-historical\" was represented by Dilthey and Martin Heidegger. This school focused on the individual qualitative experience at the expense of social context. Mannheim emphasised that the rapidity of social change in youth was crucial to the formation of generations, and that not every generation would come to see itself as distinct. In periods of rapid social change a generation would be much more likely to develop a cohesive character. He also believed that a number of distinct sub-generations could exist.\n\nAccording to Gilleard and Higgs, Mannheim identified three commonalities that a generation shares:\n\nAuthors William Strauss and Neil Howe developed the Strauss-Howe generational theory outlining what they saw as a pattern of generations repeating throughout American history. This theory became quite influential with the public and reignited an interest in the sociology of generations. This led to the creation of an industry of consulting, publishing, and marketing in the field. The theory has alternatively been criticized by social scientists and journalists who argue it is non-falsifiable, deterministic, and unsupported by rigorous evidence.\n\nWhile the concept of a generation has a long history and can be found in ancient literature, there are also psychological and sociological dimensions in the sense of belonging and identity which may define a generation.\n\nThe concept of a generation can also be used to locate particular birth cohorts in specific historical and cultural circumstances, such as the \"Baby boomers\".\n\nWhile all generations have similarities, there are differences among them as well. A 2007 Pew Research Center report called \"Millennials: Confident. Connected. Open to Change\" noted the challenge of studying generations: \"Generational analysis has a long and distinguished place in social science, and we cast our lot with those scholars who believe it is not only possible, but often highly illuminating, to search for the unique and distinctive characteristics of any given age group of Americans. But we also know this is not an exact science. We are mindful that there are as many differences in attitudes, values, behaviors, and lifestyles within a generation as there are between generations. But we believe this reality does not diminish the value of generational analysis; it merely adds to its richness and complexity.\" Another element of generational theory is recognizing how youth experience their generation, and how that changes based on where they reside in the world. \"Analyzing young people's experiences in place contributes to a deeper understanding of the processes of individualization, inequality, and of generation.\" Being able to take a closer looks at youth cultures and subcultures in different times and places adds an extra element to understanding the everyday lives of youth. This allows a better understanding of youth and the way generation and place play in their development.\n\nIt is not where the birth cohort boundaries are drawn that is important, but how individuals and societies interpret the boundaries and how divisions may shape processes and outcomes. However, the practice of categorizing age cohorts is useful to researchers for the purpose of constructing boundaries in their work.\n\nNorman Ryder, writing in \"American Sociological Review\" in 1965, shed light on the sociology of the discord between generations by suggesting that society \"persists despite the mortality of its individual members, through processes of demographic metabolism and particularly the annual infusion of birth cohorts\". He argued that generations may sometimes be a \"threat to stability\" but at the same time they represent \"the opportunity for social transformation\". Ryder attempted to understand the dynamics at play between generations.\n\nAmanda Grenier, in a 2007 essay published in \"Journal of Social Issues\", offered another source of explanation for why generational tensions exist. Grenier asserted that generations develop their own linguistic models that contribute to misunderstanding between age cohorts, \"Different ways of speaking exercised by older and younger people exist, and may be partially explained by social historical reference points, culturally determined experiences, and individual interpretations\".\n\nKarl Mannheim, in his 1952 book \"Essays on the Sociology of Knowledge\" asserted the belief that people are shaped through lived experiences as a result of social change. Howe and Strauss also have written on the similarities of people within a generation being attributed to social change. Based on the way these lived experiences shape a generation in regard to values, the result is that the new generation will challenge the older generation's values, resulting in tension. This challenge between generations and the tension that arises is a defining point for understanding generations and what separates them.\n\nFor the purposes of this list, \"Western world\" can be taken to include United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia and New Zealand. Many variations may exist within these regions, both geographically and culturally, which means that the list is broadly indicative, but necessarily very general. The contemporary characterization of these cohorts used in media and advertising borrows from the Strauss–Howe generational theory among others.\n\n\nThe term generation is sometimes applied to a cultural movement, or more narrowly defined group than an entire demographic. Some examples include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5272183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5272183", "title": "Green Map", "text": "Green Map\n\n]\n\nGreen Maps are locally created environmentally themed maps with a universal symbol set and map-making resources provided by the non-profit Green Map System. Based on the principles of cartography a Green Map plots the locations of a community's natural, cultural and sustainable resources such as recycling centers, heritage sites, community gardens, toxic waste sites and socially conscious businesses.\n\nGreen Maps are an educational and environmental communication tool for advocacy and public awareness first created for New York City by eco-designer Wendy Brawer of Modern World Design in 1992 as seen at the Green Apple Map website. The global Green Map System was formed as a result of the response to this first Green Map. Since 1995, Green Mapmaking has grown steadily around the world.\nGreen Map’s office in New York City is the resource development, outreach and support center. Due to the growth in the number of projects a decentralized or \"hub\" based management system has been adopted. Green Map System has encouraged various regions to form local support networks. Green Map System and its network of regional hubs and community-led Green Map projects share their outcomes.\n\nThe website GreenMap.org is the gathering point for both the makers and the users of Green Maps. GreenMap.org went online in 1995 and it was re-launched in May 2007, with a resource center for Mapmakers all over the world to communicate and exchange their Green Map making experience. This content management system is named as Greenhouse, symbolizing its ability to cultivate and present a “garden of Green Maps”.\n\nAlthough Green Map System authorizes local mapmakers to use its Green Mapmaking icons and tools, every project is independent and locally led. Grassroots and established non-profits, universities and schools, governmental and tourism agencies use the icons and adaptable methodologies to develop and publish their own community's Green Map in a way that meets the needs of residents and visitors.\n\nWhile Green Map System prefers and promotes the spelling \"Green Map\" to preserve trademark claims,\n\"green map\" and \"greenmap\" are often used by local Green Map projects. Green Map System is concerned with maintaining control of copyright and trademark in order to preserve the perceived integrity of the system; they wish to prevent the use of Green Maps in greenwashing and do not allow public use of their assets.\n\nThe Green Map tagline is “Think Global, Map Local!”. It’s a play on the familiar think global - act local, and implies the same depth of local involvement for positive change.\n\nAll Green Maps use a set of globally designed Green Icons, developed collaboratively by the network of local project leaders. Allegedly this is the world’s only universal symbol set for maps. The globally designed icons ensure that all Green Maps engage and guide a diversity of users. Because concepts of sustainability are continually evolving, Green Mapmakers have developed the third version of the symbols, released in March 2008. Provided as a font for ease of use or as stickers for youth/computer-less Green Mapmakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "28644199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28644199", "title": "Groom kidnapping", "text": "Groom kidnapping\n\nGroom kidnapping, colloquially known as Pakaruah shaadi or Jabaria shaadi, is a phenomenon in the western parts of Bihar, and eastern Uttar Pradesh states in India, wherein eligible bachelors are abducted by the bride's family and later forcefully married, to avoid heavy dowry costs. Considering the traditional regard for the marriage sacrament, most such marriages are not annulled. Additionally, the groom may suffer criminal charges under Indian dowry law, and end up fighting lengthy legal battles.\n\nThe practice started becoming noticeable towards the late 20th century, as dowry costs became prohibitive and organized gangs came forward to carry out the abductions. In 2009, 1224 kidnappings for marriage were reported in Bihar, carried out on behalf of the families of the brides.\n\nThe practice, which is a fallout of the dowry custom, first came to light in the 1980s. It has since gained social sanction among the upper castes like the Bhumihars, particularly in parts of America and England, where dowry demands are high. Demanding a dowry has been illegal in India for over 50 years, since the passage of the Dowry Prohibition Act of 1961. In the practice, potential bridegrooms, usually from well-off families are targeted. Young men who have either cleared their IAS exams, have a medical or engineering degree or have secured a government job, are targeted by families who can’t afford big dowries. These 'grooms' are abducted, held captive and often beaten into submission before later being forcibly married, often at gun-point with a rope tied around their waist so they can't run away. Subsequently, if the groom tries to extricate himself from the marriage, he faces lengthy legal battles and even criminal charges under Indian Dowry law, which is geared towards protecting the rights of women in the marriage as in most cases, the bride's family is financially strong and politically connected. Over the years, organized criminals have become part of the practice, as they carry out abductions for a fee and also guarantee post-marriage \"compliance\" by the groom for an extra fee. Thus many such marriages go unreported and often continue under fear of violence from local criminals.\n\nAs early as 1993, the magazine \"India Today\" reported such kidnappings by \"social groups,\" one of which had formed in 1982 in Bihar, to kidnap grooms who demanded heavy dowries and forcibly marry them. In some cases, if the groom asks for too large a dowry or backs out of a marriage owing to dowry issues, the girl's family resorts to such measures, having the groom abducted via criminal gangs.\n\nInspired by the real-life experience of a close friend, director Sushil Rajpal has made a film on the issue. \"Antardwand\", won the 2007 National Film Award for Best Film on Social Issues, and was released in 2010. Groom kidnapping was also the subject of the TV series, \"Sab Ki Jodi Wohi Banata Bhagyavidhataa\" (2009) on \"Colours TV\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18169570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18169570", "title": "He Kexin", "text": "He Kexin\n\nHe Kexin (born January 1, 1992) is a Chinese former artistic gymnast who competed at the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics. At the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, she won gold medals on the uneven bars and as a member of the Chinese team. She was one of only a few gymnasts to score over 17.00 under the 2005–2008 Code of Points, and her 7.7 difficulty score on bars in 2008 was one of the highest in the world. \n\nAs with several of her teammates, questions were raised in the international press when earlier reports surfaced indicating she may not have been old enough to compete in the 2008 Olympics; however, an official investigation found in her favor. She continued her success in post-Beijing Olympics period, she holds the record for the highest obtained difficulty in the entire London period. In the team final at the 2010 World Championships, she scored 16.133 with 7.4 difficulty, one of the highest score achieved in women's gymnastics between 2009 and 2012.\n\nHe Kexin began training at the Shichahai Sports School in Beijing in 1997. She participated in China's National Games in 2006 and Intercity Games in 2007. According to \"China Daily\", Kexin was recruited for the Chinese National Team in 2007, after her uneven bars win at the Intercity Games drew the attention of head coach Huang Yubin.\n\nShe made her international debut in 2008, participating in several events on the World Cup circuit. At her first meet, the World Cup in Doha, she scored 16.550 on the uneven bars; at her second, the Cottbus Cup, she scored 16.800. The mark was the highest uneven bars score posted at an international event under the current Code of Points\",\" besting Nastia Liukin's mark of 16.65 at the 2008 Pacific Rim Championships. On May 15, 2008, He participated in the Tianjin World Cup, breaking two world records.\n\nAt the 2008 Olympics, He was a member of the gold medal-winning Chinese team. In the uneven bars final, she and Liukin both posted final marks of 16.725, and earned identical A- and B-panel scores of 7.70 and 9.025, respectively. Because He's individual B-panel marks had a lower variance, she won the gold medal as per the Olympic tiebreaker rules of the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG).\n\nAt the 2009 World Championships in London, she defended her bars title and won a gold medal with a score of 16.000, with a 7.1 D-score.\n\nDuring the team finals in the 2010 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships, He contributed the highest score of the night to her team total, 16.133 with 7.4 difficulty, it was the highest difficulty for the entire London Olympic period in all four piece of apparatus and the 16.133 scores on bars was also the highest ever achieved at the same time. But a fall in the event final left her out of the medals. In the qualifications of the 2011 World Championships, she fell and did not make the event final. Although she did not compete in any event in the team final, she remained on the Chinese team, which won the bronze medal.\n\nHe was named to the 2012 Olympic team over 2008 teammate Jiang Yuyuan and 2011 World team member Tan Sixin, because her speciality was regarded as a better complement to the fourth team member, Deng Linlin. At the Olympics, she qualified in second place to the uneven bars event final. She finished in second, behind gold medalist Aliya Mustafina of Russia, with a score of 15.933, making her the only Chinese female gymnast to medal in the same event at two consecutive Olympics.\n\nShe is one of only five Chinese female gymnasts to make two Olympic teams, along with Liu Xuan, Kui Yuanyuan, 2008 team captain Cheng Fei, and Deng Linlin.\n\nDuring and after the 2008 Summer Olympics, He Kexin's actual age became the subject of controversy; her passport and the Chinese Olympic Committee list her date of birth as January 1, 1992, which would make her old during the 2008 Olympic opening ceremonies and therefore old enough to compete. However, before the 2008 Olympics, He's age was reported by the Chinese press, including the state news service, Xinhua, as 13 in 2007 and 14 in 2008 in news articles that were later taken off-line. Her birth date has also been given on several registration lists of the General Administration of Sport in China, the Chengdu Sports Bureau and other registration sources as January 1, 1994, which would have made her old during the opening ceremonies, and therefore too young to participate. Chinese officials maintained that He was in fact old enough to compete, stating that Xinhua had not confirmed He's age before filing their news reports and attributing the discrepancies to faulty paperwork when He was transferred from Beijing to Hubei. She herself, speaking to reporters after the 2008 Olympic team final, said, \"My real age is 16. I don't care what other people say.\" In another interview, she said, \"I don't get upset because I have answered this question many times. There's no need to explain anymore.\" On August 2, the International Olympic Committee stated that it would not investigate the discrepancy in He's reported age because the FIG's own verification system was sufficient proof of eligibility. The FIG, in responding to the situation, said that it would not ask for additional proof of age beyond the passport already supplied by Chinese officials.\n\nHowever, the matter continued to be a source of controversy among members of the gymnastics community and the media. \"The Times\" reported that a computer expert \"Stryde\" had recovered one of the deleted registration lists showing He's birth date as January 1, 1994, through cached pages on the search engine Baidu. On August 21, the IOC announced that it had asked the FIG to open an investigation into He and her teammates' ages. On August 22, 2008, the IOC said it had not uncovered any evidence of wrongdoing \"so far\" and expressed confidence that the Chinese Federation's documents were correct. However, the FIG held an emergency meeting about the situation on August 23 and requested additional documentation for every gymnast on the Chinese team, with the exception of Cheng Fei. On August 24, a Chinese official addressed the registration lists found online, stating that the discrepancy was due to an administrative error that took place when He was transferred between teams while participating in the InterCity Games in 2007.\n\nOn October 1, 2008, the FIG concluded its investigation, finding that He and her Olympic teammates were old enough to compete, although some international media outlets remained skeptical.\n\n"}
{"id": "19453066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19453066", "title": "Housing in Senegal", "text": "Housing in Senegal\n\nSenegal’s high population growth and migration from the rural areas to Dakar has resulted in the mushrooming of squatter settlements on Dakar’s periphery.\n\nFurther, the high costs of construction materials – imported for the most part – combined with prohibitive interest rates – in the range of 8-10% according to BHS, the housing bank – have made housing too expensive for the average Senegalese and for low-income families. As a result, there is a critical shortage of affordable housing, and the Government has estimated at 120,000 the number of units to be built every year in order to meet a growing demand. \n\nUnder President Abdoulaye Wade’s initiative “one family-one home”, a battery of incentives has been presented to potential homebuilders, as long as the cost of the house does not exceed CFA Franc 7 million ($15,500). They range from providing free land to homebuilders, a 3.3% subsidy to the target buyers of the houses, and tax holidays for imported construction equipment.\n"}
{"id": "34802207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34802207", "title": "Jason Anderson (cricketer)", "text": "Jason Anderson (cricketer)\n\nJason Anderson (born 17 February 1979) is a former Bermudian cricketer. A right-handed wicket-keeper/batsman, Anderson represented the Bermudian national side between 2010 and 2013, most notably at the 2011 World Cricket League Division Two tournament and the 2012 World Twenty20 Qualifier.\n\nHaving earlier played for the national under-19 team, Anderson made his senior debut for Bermuda in September 2010, at a cricket festival in Canada. He went on to make his list-A debut in April 2011, against Papua New Guinea at the WCL Division Two tournament in the United Arab Emirates. Anderson finished the tournament with 176 runs from his five matches, made at an average of 44.00, which was behind only Dion Stovell and Lionel Cann for Bermuda. His highest score of the tournament was an innings of 106 not out against Hong Kong, which earnt him the man of the match award.\n\nIn March 2012, Anderson was selected as the only wicket-keeper in Bermuda's squad for the 2012 World Twenty20 Qualifier. He went on to play every match of the tournament, but scored only a single run from his five innings, consequently finishing his Twenty20 career with an average of only 0.33. Anderson's final international tournament was the 2013 WCL Division Three event, which Bermuda hosted. Aged 34 at the time of his last international, he continued to play club cricket for several more seasons, representing Cleveland County Cricket Club. However, in September 2015, Anderson was involved in an on-field altercation that resulted in him being banned for life from Bermudian cricket. Playing in a league final against Willow Cuts Cricket Club, he struck an opposing batsman, George O'Brien, in the head, which provoked a brawl featuring both teams and several spectators. The Bermuda Cricket Board subsequently found Anderson guilty of a level-four violation of the code of conduct for players, with a life ban being the consequence.\n\n"}
{"id": "45219661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45219661", "title": "Jens Zimmermann (host)", "text": "Jens Zimmermann (host)\n\nJens Oliver Zimmermann (born 6 August 1972 in Freudenstadt, Germany) is a German sport announcer, moderator and athletes manager. He had started his career as a press speaker of popular German football team Stuttgarter Kickers. Nowadays he executes announcing of sport competitions in Germany as well as abroad. Jens Zimmermann is the first and only German announcer, who featured 2010 Vancouver Olympic Games and 2014 Sochi Olympic Games.\n\nStarting his career in 1997 as a press speaker of Stuttgarter Kickers, he developed his career to Managing Director at the same football club, where he held this position from 2009 until 2011. In 2011 he ran self-founded company \"Marketing-Moderation Zimmermann\", where he officially started the field of athlete management. In 2014, among the expansion of business, the new agency \"24passion\" is created. \"24passion\" executes the full-cycle Sport Production (audio-/visual support of the sport events), athlete management (Marcel Nguyen, Frank Stäbler, Anna Seidel, Johannes Rydzek, Manuel Faisst, Andreas Toba, Elisabeth Seitz, Sebastian Bradatsch, Luis Brethauer, Daniel Bohnacker, Aline Focken and the German handball players Felix Koenig and Marcel Schiller) and marketing solutions for business.\n\nAs the announcer Jens Zimmermann has announced more than 500 events overall in German as well as in English languages. His professional career includes sport world's top competitions like Olympic Games, Four Hills Tournament in Oberstdorf, Nordic Ski World Championships, Handball World Championships 2007, Mercedes-Benz Junior Football Cup (annually since 2001) and more than 60 handball games of German League.\n\n"}
{"id": "23722039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23722039", "title": "Jiye people", "text": "Jiye people\n\nThe Jiye are an ethnic group living in the Kathangor Hills in Eastern Equatoria state, South Sudan.\n"}
{"id": "1184354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184354", "title": "John Dall", "text": "John Dall\n\nJohn Dall (May 26, 1920 – January 15, 1971) was an American actor.\n\nPrimarily a stage actor, he is best remembered today for two film roles: the cool-minded intellectual killer in Alfred Hitchcock's \"Rope\" (1948), and the trigger-happy lead in the 1950 film noir \"Gun Crazy\". He also had a substantial role in Stanley Kubrick's\" Spartacus\" (1960). He first came to fame as the young prodigy who comes alive under the tutelage of Bette Davis in \"The Corn Is Green\" (1945), for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\n John Dall Thompson (he used his middle name for his acting career) was born in New York City on 26 May 1920, the younger son of Charles Jenner Thompson (1873–1929) and his wife Henry (\"née\" Worthington). (Sources which cite Dall's birth name as John \"Jenner\" Thompson and his birth year as 1918 appear to be in error.) His father was a civil engineer. His elder brother, Worthington Thompson, was later a decorated lieutenant in the 517th Parachute Regimental Combat Team.\n\nIn the 1920s the Thompsons moved to Panama, where Charles worked on the construction of the airport there. While in Panama, Dall was in a theatre when a cast member fell ill and Dall stepped in; this caused him to get the desire to act. His father committed suicide in 1929, and his widow returned to New York City with John the following year.\n\nJohn attended Horace Mann School and briefly enrolled at Columbia University, where he intended to follow in his father's footsteps by studying engineering. Deciding that acting was his true vocation, he left Columbia and studied at the Theodora Irvine School of Theater and the Pasadena Playhouse. He also studied at the Petit Theatre in New Orleans.\n\nDall spent six years acting in various stock companies, notably Clare Tree Major's Children's Theatre. He also worked in companies headed by Aline MacMahon, Arthur Byron, Ruth Weston and Edith Atwater.\n\nDall had small roles on Broadway during the 1941-42 season in \"R.U.R.\" and \"Janie\". In 1942-43 he played the lead of Quizz Martin in the touring company \"The Eve of St Mark\". He was well received and replaced William Prince on Broadway so Prince could take a vacation. His performance was spotted by Jack Warner's wife and resulted in a Warners screen test for Dall. Warner Bros. offered him a contract but he would only take it if he could have time off to do a play. (Warners also signed Prince.)\n\nDall made his film debut in \"The Corn Is Green\" (1945), under the direction of Irving Rapper. Richard Waring had been meant to play the part but had been called into the army. The film was shot in the middle of 1944. Warners were impressed with the rushes and signed Dall to a new contract.\n\nDall returned to the stage to play the lead in Norman Krasna's \"Dear Ruth\" (1944), under the direction of Moss Hart. It was a huge success. \"The New York Times\" said Dall gives \"a graceful and easy performance\". Even before \"The Corn Is Green\" was released Warners announced Dall was one of six contractees they intended to build into a star (the others were Lauren Bacall, Dane Clark, Faye Emerson, Robert Hutton and Prince.)\n\nAfter \"The Corn Is Green\" was released, Dall received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor. He was called one of the \"hottest finds\" in Hollywood, and Warners tried to find a film for him and co-star Joan Lorring.\n\nThe film rights to \"Dear Ruth\" were sold to Paramount who cast William Holden in the part originated by Dall. Warners brought the screen rights to John Patrick's play \"The Hasty Heart\" and announced Dall would play the role originated by Richard Basehart. Warners gave Dall three months leave to perform \"The Hasty Heart\" (1945) on stage on the road. However the film was not made for several more years by which time Richard Todd had been cast in the role.\n\nIn May 1946, Warners released Dall from his contract. He only made one film for the studio.\n\nParamount announced they were interested in signing Dall and Edward G. Robinson for a role in an adaptation of \"The Wayfarers\". In May 1946 he signed a seven-year deal with David O. Selznick's Vanguard Films. Dall performed \"Hasty Heart\" in summer stock.\n\nDall wound up making no films for Selznick. Instead he went over to Universal, where he signed a contract. He played Deanna Durbin's love interest in \"Something in the Wind\" (1947); the \"Los Angeles Times\" described him as \"ill at ease\". He was in \"Another Part of the Forest\" (1948), based on the play by Lillian Hellman.\n\nAlfred Hitchcock cast Dall in \"Rope\" (1948) as one of two killers (the other played by Farley Granger) who match wits with James Stewart. The film was not a big hit on release but its reputation has since grown.\n\nAfter \"Rope\" it was reported he would make \"Shadow of Fear\" for Michael Curtiz but this did not materialize.\n\nDall did \"The Wind and the Rain\" for \"Theatre Guild on the Air\" then returned to Broadway to appear in Daniel Taradash's adaptation of Jean-Paul Sartre's \"Red Gloves\" with Charles Boyer, directed by Jed Harris. It was a minor hit. Brooks Atkinson said Boyer and Dall's acting were the best thing about the production.\n\nDall made his TV debut in \"Miracle in the Rain\" for \"The Chevrolet Tele-Theatre\" in 1949. He appeared as one of the leads in \"Gun Crazy\" (1949), the other lead actor was Peggy Cummins.\n\nDall had a supporting role in \"The Man Who Cheated Himself\" (1950). He was in the short-run revival of \"The Heiress\" (1950) on Broadway with Basil Rathbone.\n\nIn October 1950 Dall said that TV acting was better done by movie actors, who understood technique, than stage actors, who needed audience response.\n\nIn late 1950, he appeared in \"The Man\" by Mel Dinelli on stage in Los Angeles with Gladys George. The \"Los Angeles Times\" said he played his role with \"tremendous assurance\".\n\nIn stock he appeared in \"The Hasty Heart\" (1952), \"Gramercy Ghost\" (1952), \"The Moon is Blue\" (1953), \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\", and \"Born Yesterday\" (1953).\n\nDall did much work in television, appearing in guest roles on such shows as \"Lights Out\" (\"Pit of the Dead\"), \"The Clock\" (\"A Right Smart Trick\"), \"Studio One in Hollywood\" (\"The Doctor's Wife\"), \"Broadway Television Theatre\" (\"Outward Bound\", \"The Hasty Heart\"), \"Suspense\" (\"The Invisible Killer\", \"The Tenth Reunion\"), \"General Electric Theatre\" (\"The Coward of Fort Bennett\") and \"Schlitz Playhouse\" (\"And Practically Strangers\"). Other theatre performances in stock included \"The Male Animal\" (1954).\n\nDall returned to Broadway for Leslie Stevens' \"Champagne Complex\", which had a short run in 1955.\n\nDall's first film in eight years was \"Spartacus\" (1960), where he played a Roman soldier. He was the villain in MGM's \"Atlantis, the Lost Continent\" (1961), his final theatrical feature.\n\nDall guest starred in a number of episodes of TV's \"Perry Mason\", playing different characters.\n\nFilm historians William J. Mann and Karen Burroughs Hannsberry have remarked that Dall was gay but claimed in media interviews to have had a brief marriage in the early 1940s. No marriage certificate has come to light, and his death certificate records him as \"never married\". Hedda Hopper once linked his name with Jane Withers romantically.\nHollywood pimp Scotty Bowers has claimed that Dall was one of his most unusual clients, and liked to be tied upside down to trees in Laurel Canyon in the middle of the night. \"He liked to hang upside down naked until morning. Once a week he wanted this.\" According to music journalist Phil Milstein, at the time of his death Dall had lapsed into alcoholism and was living with his partner, actor Clement Brace (died 1996).\n\nDall sustained a serious fall while visiting London in October 1970, and died of cardiac arrest, a complication of myocarditis, at his home in Beverly Hills, California on January 15, 1971, aged 50. His body was donated to medical science.\n\nDall's papers are held at the Margaret Herrick Library in Beverly Hills, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "21254583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21254583", "title": "Koreans in Mongolia", "text": "Koreans in Mongolia\n\nKoreans in Mongolia form one of the Korean diaspora communities in Asia. They consist of both North and South Korean expatriates.\n\nIn 1994, there were estimated to be around 100 South Korean expatriates in Mongolia. Official statistics from South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade showed 270 of their nationals in Mongolia in 1997, and about eight times as many by 2013. Some unofficial estimates suggest that their population might be as large as 3,500 individuals. Aside from residents, the number of South Korean tourists has also shown an upward trend, reaching 40,000 individuals in 2007.\n\nMany South Korean expatriates operate small businesses; the number of businesses in Mongolia funded by South Korean capital was estimated at 1,500 . The various types of businesses include restaurants serving Korean cuisine, karaoke bars, and even eyeglass shops. A weekend language and culture school for Korean children was set up in 1998 by a local Korean church. Under a bilateral agreement, both South Koreans working in Mongolia as well as Mongolians working in South Korea are exempted from otherwise-mandatory contributions to the national pension plans of the country they reside in.\n\nThe growth of the South Korean presence has caused some tensions with their Mongolian hosts. In 2005, Korean-owned businesses in Ulan Bator which displayed \"hangul\" signs were ordered to switch them to English or Mongolian only, a situation which South Korean news agency YTN attributed to growing Mongolian nationalism.\n\nAmong the numerous South Korean owned businesses are a number of karaoke bars operating as fronts for prostitution, which are frequented by clients of South Korean-run businesses in Mongolia (growing from just one in 2002 to an estimated fifty as of 2005).\n\nAs of May 2008, roughly 200 North Korean citizens worked in Mongolia. In February 2008, Ulan Bator and Pyongyang reached an agreement which would allow as many as 5,300 North Korean workers to come to Mongolia over the following five years. The relevant agreement came before the State Great Hural for approval in May that year. An open letter from American NGO Human Rights Watch in August called on Mongolian Minister of Social Welfare and Labor Damdiny Demberel to ensure that the workers' freedom of expression, movement, and association would be respected; North Korean workers in similar positions in Europe were often denied such rights by their North Korean government minders. The South Korean ambassador described Mongolia's decision to import North Korean workers as \"problematic\".\n\n, it was estimated that 500 North Korean defectors entered Mongolia each month, largely by way of neighbouring China.\n\nAs early as 2004, some South Korean citizens' groups had begun laying plans to construct camps in Mongolia to house North Korean refugees; however, they were denied permission by the Mongolian government. In September 2005, South Korean NGO Rainbow Foundation stated that they had been granted 1.3 square kilometres of land near Ulan Bator, and would soon begin construction on a centre which could house as many as 200 North Korean refugees However, during his November 2006 trip to Beijing, Mongolian prime minister Miyeegombyn Enkhbold denied reports that his country was planning to set up any refugee camps for North Koreans, though he reaffirmed that they would be treated in a humanitarian manner. In October 2008, South Korean president Lee Myung-bak was reported to have ordered his officials to look further into the possibility of setting up a camp for them in Mongolia.\n\nThe Mongolian government does have facilities to provide shelter for North Korean refugees on their territory; in December 2007, Vitit Muntarbhorn, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in North Korea, praised Mongolia's treatment of North Korean refugees in an official report, noting that they had made commendable progress in improving such facilities since his previous visit.\n\nBoth the Mongolian and South Korean governments' policies towards refugees have shifted several times. In June 2007, Mongolia began to turn North Korean refugees away from their borders, reportedly with the aim of improving their diplomatic relations with North Korea. Similarly, in October 2007, the South Korean side was reported to be \"closing the door\" to North Korean refugees in Mongolia and Southeast Asia; North Korea watcher Andrei Lankov, a professor at Seoul's Kookmin University, attributed this to a deliberate policy by the South Korean government to minimise the number of new refugees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38600732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38600732", "title": "Latu language", "text": "Latu language\n\nLatu is an Austronesian language spoken on Seram Island in the Moluccas in eastern Indonesia. It is linguistically close to Saparua.\n"}
{"id": "31789942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31789942", "title": "List of countries by distribution of wealth", "text": "List of countries by distribution of wealth\n\nThis is a list of countries by distribution of wealth, including Gini coefficients. Wealth distribution can vary greatly from income distribution in a country. See: List of countries by income equality.\n\nHigher Gini coefficients signify greater inequality in wealth distribution, with 0 being complete equality, whereas a value near 1 can arise in a situation where everybody has zero wealth except a very small minority. \"The top 10 percent owned 71 percent of world wealth, and the Gini coefficient for the global distribution of wealth is estimated to be 0.804, indicating greater inequality than that observed in the global distribution of consumption or income.\"\n\nThe table below is for 2000, and is based on purchasing power parity (PPP) dollars, based on a 2008 \"working paper\" published by the National Bureau of Economic Research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4737698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4737698", "title": "List of feminist rhetoricians", "text": "List of feminist rhetoricians\n\nThis is a list of the major works of feminist women who have made considerable contributions to and shaped the rhetorical discourse about women. It is the table of contents of \"Available Means: An Anthology of Women's Rhetoric(s)\", edited by Joy Ritchie and Kate Ronald and published by University of Pittsburgh Press (2001).\n\nAspasia was the mistress of the statesman Pericles, and after he divorced his wife (this may or may not be true) they lived together as if they were married. Their home was a communal meeting place for a wide variety of people. It was a place of conversation and culture which people from all over contributed to rhetoric. Aspasia's writings do not remain, but she is mentioned by writers such as Plato in regard to her contributions to rhetoric. She also said to have taught other women how to carry themselves and speak to groups of people intelligently. Aspasia was a great rhetor and was said to have written the famous speech given at Pericles' funeral.\n\nAspasia's rhetoric and social contributions were seen through a gendered lens. \n\nSocrates references Diotima in \"Plato's Symposium\", as a seer or priestess who taught him \"the philosophy of eros\" when he was young. It is not known whether she was a real person, or a character he developed.\n\n\n\n(1347–1380) St. Catherine of Siena was the daughter of a poet and had no formal education. She devoted her life to Christ, and wrote hundreds of letters to individuals in authority and to the Pope. Over three hundred of these letters still exist and are viewed as a major work of early Tuscan literature.\n\n\nde Pizan had a writing career that spanned approximately thirty years. During that time, she wrote numerous pieces (41 known works) and was considered as Europe's first professional writer. She is seen as a feminist who challenged the misogyny of male writers.\n\n\nCereta's main writing consisted of letters to other scholars. She believed in women's right to education and fought against the oppression marriage brought to women.\n\n\n(c. 1373-after 1438) Kempe's book, possibly the first autobiography in English, gives readers a glimpse of a woman's life in the Middle Ages.\n\n\n(1614–1702) Fell was one of the founding members of the Religious Society of Friends. The meetings held by the Society were frequently held in her home and, as an educated individual, she wrote many of the epistle. She remained an active Quaker throughout her life.\n\n\n(1651–1695) There is question on the year of de la Cruz's birth, but no one questions that she was a self-taught Mexican scholar and writer who lived in a viceroy's court until entering the convent to become a nun in 1668. Her writing focused on freedom in regard to race and gender.\n\n\n(1666–1731) Astell was an advocate of equal educational opportunities for women. She was educated informally by her uncle, who had been suspended by the church.\n\n\n(1759–1797) Wollstonecraft had a short lived, but important writing career. It lasted only nine years, but covered a wide span of genres and topics. She is recognized for her early advocacy of women's rights.\n\n\n(1803–1897) Orphaned early, Stewart was a servant in a minister's home and received her education there. Due to the religious nature of her education, many of her speeches and written work held deeply religious tones. She was known as a women's rights advocate that spoke to African American women about rights and social justice.\n\n\n(1792–1873) Grimke was the southern born daughter of a planter. She was self-educated, and became an attorney and a judge in South Carolina, USA. Her belief in education brought her to teach her personal slave how to read, contrary to the laws of the time. After becoming a Quaker, she fought for women's rights and against slavery.\n\n\n(1810–1850) Fuller was an editor, critic, journalist, and women's rights activist. She was active in the field of journalism all of her life, and held discussion groups for women regarding arts, education, and other issues deemed important to women.\n\n\n(c. 1797-1883) A slave and then a domestic servant, Truth was a noted activist in regard to abolition and women's rights. She is best known for her speech \"Ain't I a Woman.\"\n\n\n(1825–1911) Watkins Harper was an African American born to free parents. Her education came about while she was a servant in a Quaker household and given access to the family's library. She was known as a writer (both books and poetry), lecturer, and political activist. She held office in several organizations that promoted abolition, civil rights, and women's rights.\n\n\n(1820–1906) Anthony, the daughter of a Quaker, was well educated. She was a teacher and activist who worked tirelessly in regard to abolition, temperance, and women's rights. Anthony traveled extensively with Elizabeth Cady Stanton promoting women's rights and equality.\n\n\n(c. 1841-1891) Winnemucca was a Paiute who wrote an autobiographical account of her people's early experiences with white settlers and the government. She is the first Native American woman to copyright and publish a text in English. The book is considered controversial and some members of her tribe saw her as selling out to the white man. She became a noted speaker and activist.\n\n\n(1858–1964) Cooper was born into slavery, but had no memory of it. She taught until she married when she was forced to leave her post temporarily, until his death two years after their marriage. Her book about Southern black woman was considered the first feminist work by an African American woman.\n\n\n(1815–1902) Stanton was an activist in the anti-slavery movement and one of the leading figures of the early women's rights movement. She was friends with both Susan B. Anthony and Frederick Douglass, a former slave, abolitionist, and noted author.\n\n\n(1855–1944) Williams was an African American educator and political activist.\n\n\n(1862–1931) Ida B. Wells (also known as Ida Wells-Barnett) was an African American woman who was a journalist and public speaker. She adamantly stood against lynching and worked for women's suffrage and rights.\n\n\n(1860–1935) Gilman was a prominent American short story writer, novelist, lecturer, and feminist activist. She wrote the short story \"The Yellow Wallpaper\", which addresses mental illness in women and its treatment. It is the story she is most recognized for today.\n\n\n(1871–1922) Gertrude Buck was born on July 14, 1871 in Michigan where she lived for the first half of her life. She was among a new generation of privileged white women who were able to attend college. Buck received three degrees from the University of Michigan, her bachelor’s at age 13, master’s at age 24, and doctorate in rhetoric at age 27. After receiving her doctorate, Buck went on to teach English and Rhetoric at Vassar College in New York for about 25 years. While there, she was active not only in teaching, but in administration duties and community social issues as well.\n\nShe lived in Poughkeepsie with colleague and lover Laura Wylie and they even thought about adopting a child, but they never did. Buck and Wylie took to relevant issues of the community with their membership in the Equal Suffrage League of Poughkeepsie and at the Women's City and County Club. Buck herself was a member of the Socialist Party of New York. She also founded the Poughkeepsie Community Theater as a way to encourage collaboration between social classes. Her textbooks were written for female students and encouraged them in learning and in the participation of politics.\n\nWhile at Vassar, Buck wrote a number of poems, plays, essays, and textbooks, however her goal was not to become widely published but rather she put her focus on restructuring the Vassar curriculum. “The Present Status of Rhetorical Theory” (1900) documents Buck's ideas against Sophist rhetoric, calling it “socially irresponsible” because it only developed around the idea of persuasion not action. Buck's writings developed around the idea of incorporating individuals with the social community in pursuit of truth.\n\n\n(1855–1941) Mary Augusta Jordan was a professor of English at Smith College from 1884 to 1921. Born to Augusta Woodbury Ricker and Edward Jordan, she and her sisters were provided with the best educational opportunities; namely, Jordan's father sent her to college in 1872 instead of her brother when finances allowed him to send only one child. She graduate in 1876, becoming a Vassar Librarian before earning her Master's of the Arts in English in 1878. In 1884, the Smith College President L. Clark Seelye lured her away from Vassar to his college: she became an assistant professor in rhetoric and Anglo-Saxon; she was able to maintain her teaching positions until she retired in 1921 because she never married, as was custom at that time.\n\nIn 1906, she became a full professor at Smith College, as well as the head of the English Department while also serving as an informal adviser to three Smith presidents. As a professor, she was known to encourage honesty and freedom of expression and motivated student self-criticism without loss of self-confidence.\n\nIn 1910, she was presented with a Smith College honorary doctorate of Humane Letters, and in 1921, she was then presented with a Syracuse University doctorate of Pedagogy. In that same year, she retired from her teaching position and went to New Haven. In 1922, a house on the east side of the Smith College Quadrangle was named for her. She eventually died in 1941.\n\nAs for her writings, Jordan encouraged an understanding of \"proper\" usage of English grammar, but she acknowledged that writing and speaking embodied different aspects of the English language. \"Proper\" English was, according to her, whatever one interpreted it to be and how one proceeded to use it.\n\n\n(1879–1966) Sanger was a women's activist in regard to birth control. She was the founder of what is now Planned Parenthood (originally called the American Birth Control League).\n\n\n(1869–1940) Goldman was a part of an anarchist movement and was considered part of what is known as the first-wave feminist movement.\n\n\n(1875–1935) Alice Dunbar Nelson was married to another poet named Paul Laurence Dunbar. She was a poet, journalist and political activist.\n\n\n(1897–1980) Day was a journalist and social activist known for her defense of the poor and homeless.\n\n\n(1882–1941) Woolf was a member of the Bloomsbury Group and noted for her feminist works. One of her most famous works is \"Mrs. Dalloway.\"\n\n\n(1891–1960) Hurston was an African-American author and part of the Harlem Renaissance. Her best known work is the novel \"Their Eyes Were Watching God.\"\n\n\n(1908–1986) Beauvoir was a French philosopher, novelist, and essayist who was educated first in a Catholic girls' school, and then studied philosophy at the Sorbonne. She taught philosophy until she was dismissed by the Nazis in 1943. Her most widely known feminist work was \"The Second Sex\", published in 1949.\n\n\n(1907–1964) Carson was a zoologist and marine biologist who was prominent in the global environmental movement and is credited with helping change the pesticide policy in the United States.\n\n\n(May 16, 1929 - March 27, 2012) Rich is an American feminist, poet, teacher, and writer who has been given awards, and turned some of them down. She is most recognized for her work in the women's movement, but is also involved in the social justice movement.\n\n\n(born June 5, 1937) Cixous is a professor, feminist writer, poet, playwright, philosopher, and rhetorician. She is well known for her work analyzing language and sex.\n\n\n(born 24 June 1941) Kristeva was born in Bulgaria. She is a philosopher, psychoanalyst, and feminist who added novelist to the list of her accomplishments.\n\n\n(1934–1992) Lorde was a poet and activist involved in the civil rights, antiwar, and feminist movements.\n\n\n\n(born February 9, 1944) Walker, an African American author and feminist, wrote the novel \"The Color Purple\". It was awarded both the Pulitzer Prize and the American Book Award. She is well known as an outspoken individual regarding women's rights, race, sexuality, and the importance of culture.\n\n\n\n(1946–2005) Dworkin was an anti-war activist during the Vietnam War. She was also a nationally recognized feminist who stood adamantly against pornography and violence against women.\n\n\n(born in 1939) Allen is a Native American poet, literary critic, activist and novelist. One of her focuses has been the role of women in the Native American culture.\n\n\n(1942–2004) Anzaldua was a feminist and lesbian who was also writer, poet, scholar and activist who focuses on issues of race in both her writing and studies.\n\n\n(1936–2002) Jordan was an activist, writer, poet, and teacher. She was born to Jamaican immigrants, and after her family moved to Brooklyn, New York, USA, she was the only black student attending her high school.\n\n\n(born in Vietnam, 1952) Minh-Ha immigrated to the United States in 1970. She studied music and literatire at the University of Illinois, where she received her Master of Fine Arts and Ph.D. degrees. Currently, she is both the Chancellor's Distinguished Professor of Women's Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and an associate professor of cinema, San Francisco State University. She is a filmmaker, writer, literary theorist, and composer who focuses much of her work around identity.\n\n\n(born September 25, 1952) bell hooks was born Gloria Jean Watkins and is a social activist who is internationally known. Her works focus on race, class, and gender and the oppression by, and of, each.\n\n\n\n\n\n(born April 11, 1949) Allison is a writer, speaker, and professor. Her works focus on themes surrounding women: class struggle, child and sexual abuse, women, lesbianism, feminism, and family. She is well known for her first novel \"Bastard Out of Carolina\", which was published in 1992.\n\n\n\n(born Leslie Marmon on March 5, 1948) Silko is a mix of Native American, European American, and Mexican American, and is recognized as a Native American writer. She was raised on the edge of a reservation and attended a Catholic school. She associates most strongly with her Laguna ancestry.\n\n\n(born 1962) Behar is a feminist, anthropologist, poet, writer, and professor. She currently teaches at the University of Michigan.\n\n\n(born March 25, 1934) Steinem is probably the most recognized living American feminist. She is a journalist and spokeswoman for women's rights. After working as an assistant editor, she became a freelance journalist. Eventually, she founded \"Ms. magazine\".\n\n\nPlease note: All information referenced regarding the above female rhetoricians comes from established Wikipedia articles/pages unless otherwise stated.\n"}
{"id": "10005698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10005698", "title": "List of journalists killed in Russia", "text": "List of journalists killed in Russia\n\nThe dangers to journalists in Russia have been well known since the early 1990s but concern over the number of unsolved killings soared after Anna Politkovskaya's murder in Moscow on 7 October 2006. While international monitors mentioned a dozen deaths, some sources within Russia talked of over two hundred fatalities.\nThe evidence has since been examined and documented in two reports, published in Russian and English, by international organizations. These revealed a basic confusion in terminology that explained the seemingly enormous numerical discrepancy: statistics of premature death among journalists (from work accidents, crossfire incidents, and purely criminal or domestic cases of manslaughter) were repeatedly equated with the much smaller number of targeted (contract) killings or work-related murders.\nThe Remembrance Day of Journalists Killed in the Line of Duty in Russia is observed on 15 December every year.\n\nAmong international monitors, the figures quoted for deaths of journalists in Russia have varied, sometimes considerably. There are several explanations. Firstly, certain organisations are concerned with all aspects of safety in news gathering so the International Federation of Journalists and the International News Safety Institute also record accidents that have occurred at work. Secondly, some monitoring bodies include only fatalities in crossfire and dangerous assignments and those murders where they feel sure of the motive behind the lethal attack and can with confidence lobby the appropriate government; the CPJ adopts this approach. Thirdly, the term \"journalist\" is used by monitors as a general term to cover many different occupations within the media. Some include support staff, others do not.\n\nIn any list of deaths, compiled by monitors inside or outside the country, Russia ranks near the top for deaths. When the killing began, the brief First Chechen War took numerous journalists' lives from within Chechnya and abroad. There were also increased peacetime deaths of journalists elsewhere in the Russian Federation.\n\nThose deliberately targeted for their work tended to be reporters, correspondents, and editors. In Russia many directors of new regional TV and radio stations have been murdered but some of these deaths are thought to relate to conflicting business interests. Photographers and cameramen are vulnerable in crossfire situations, such as the October 1993 days in Moscow and the armed conflict in the North Caucasus.\n\nIn June 2009 a wide-ranging investigation by the International Federation of Journalists into the deaths of journalists in Russia was published. At the same time, the IFJ launched an online database which documents over three hundred deaths and disappearances since 1993. Both the report \"Partial Justice\" (Russian version: \"Частичное правосудие\") and the database depend on the information gathered in Russia over the last 16 years by the country's own media monitors: the Glasnost Defense Foundation and the Center for Journalism in Extreme Situations.\n\nIn September, in the report \"Justice\", the Committee to Protect Journalists repeated its conclusion that Russia was one of the deadliest countries in the world for journalists and added that it remains among the worst at solving their murders. Journalists died or were killed, the CPJ argued, because of the work they were doing and only one case has led to a partially successful prosecution.\n\nFollowing Russia's media monitors, the IFJ database of deaths and disappearances in Russia takes into account the entire range of media occupations and every degree of uncertainty as to the motive for many of the attacks. It also allows for selection and analysis. It classifies the way in which a journalist died (homicide, accident, crossfire, terrorist act, or not confirmed) and it assesses each death as certainly, possibly, or most probably not, linked to the journalist's work.\n\nSince the early 1990s, Russia's media monitors have recorded every violent or suspicious death that came to their attention. Determining which were linked to the journalist's work has not always been easy since law enforcement agencies in Russia were struggling to cope with a wave of murders and the number of unsolved killings of journalists steadily mounted. In the last few years, the Center for Journalism in Extreme Situations has gathered all available information about these deaths on its Memoriam site. This made it possible to check how much these deaths have been investigated and how many have led to court cases. The IFJ data base summarises the information accumulated on the Memoriam site and makes it available in English for the first time. During a study of international fraud-detection homicide, which compared fraud detection homicide cases from the United States of America against fraud detection homicide cases from the former Soviet Republic, the murder of Paula Klebenikov illustrated a case of a contract killing of a journalist known to expose fraud in governments. At the time of his murder, he was thought to be investigating complex money laundering fraud scheme involving Chechen reconstruction projects. The investigation appears to reveal that Klebnikov had discovered that the fraud reached deep into the centers of power in the Kremlin, elements involving organized crime, and also the former KGB, now known as the FSB.\n\nThe IFJ report \"Partial Justice\" maps the changing contours of impunity in Russia. It shows and explains the process whereby particular deaths are selected by the IFJ, CPJ, and other monitors. It stresses the need for an end to total impunity in those remaining regions (the North Caucasus, St Petersburg) where no one has ever been prosecuted for killing a journalist, and for an advance beyond partial justice in those cases where it is known, or strongly suspected, that the murder of a journalist was planned and premeditated. It is not enough to put the killer on trial; they must be accompanied, or followed, by their accomplices, and the intermediaries and individuals who ordered and paid for the killing.\n\nThe IFJ report opens and closes with the Politkovskaya murder and the subsequent trial, which ran from November 2008 to February 2009. After 16 years of unsolved killings, the international outcry over her death made this a test case that might finally breach the barrier of partial justice. The evidence presented by the prosecution, unfortunately, did not convince the jury or satisfy other key participants. \"Anatomy of Injustice\", the report by the CPJ, displays the conclusions the Committee has reached about certain deaths since 2000: the authorities do not acknowledge some of these deaths as homicide, while several others reached the courts but have led at most to the conviction of the perpetrator, not those who ordered the killing.\n\nFollowing different routes the two reports reach a similar set of recommendations. They call on Russian authorities to give investigators and courts the backing they need to identify and pursue all those responsible for the deaths of journalists and, in the meanwhile, to keep the press and the public better informed about their progress in tackling such disturbing crimes.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000's the homicide rate in Russia was among the highest in the world. There were over 500 contract killings in Russia in 1994. The CPJ lists Russia as \"the third deadliest country in the world for journalists\" since 1991, exceeded in the number of deaths only by Algeria (1993–1996) and post-invasion Iraq. It is more revealing, perhaps, to set Russia alongside its G20 partners — not just the USA and France, but also Saudi Arabia and China (see Table 1, in the IFJ report). Russia's problem, shared by certain other members of G20 (India, Brazil, and Mexico), is not simply one of the number of deaths but that killing with impunity has persisted over time. The varied conditions in these economically important countries highlight a further crucial dimension. The killing of journalists may be the most dramatic and frequently quoted \"barometer of press freedom\" but it is by no means the only measure. What it signifies for a particular country can only be properly gauged in the wider context of press freedom and other liberties, present (or absent) in that society. Very few journalists have been killed in China and none, it would seem, in North Korea. Other shortcomings ensure those countries occupy a lower position than Russia on any index of press freedom.\n\nMikhail Beketov initially survived a 2008 attack and died five years later. Immediate death is the extreme end of the spectrum of threats and intimidation.\n\nThe violent deaths of journalists started in the Yeltsin era (1991–1999) and continued under Putin, president of Russia from 31 December 1999 to 7 May 2008. When Medvedev became president, he spoke of the need to end \"legal nihilism\". From 2003 to 2008 there have been a rising number of trials but by November 2009 there had yet to be a major breakthrough, under Medvedev, of either in the prosecution of pre-2008 deaths or the investigation of killings since his May 2008 inauguration. The Politkovskaya murder trial and the first arrests in the Baburova-Markelov slaying (November 2009) showed some inconclusive signs of movement.\n\nThe yearly figures in the table above are derived from the \"journalists in Russia\" database, where details can be found on each individual death. Certain important categories are not included. Those who have gone \"missing\" (14 persons); those who died in an incident (\"not confirmed\", 28 persons), the nature of which has not been satisfactorily established; and journalists killed in work-related accidents (37 persons), may be found online in the IFJ database.\n\nThe third set of figures indicates the yearly number of verdicts reached in trials for the killing of journalists. With only three exceptions these have all been for homicide. Some cases have taken six to seven years to reach court (e.g. the killings of Dmitry Kholodov and Igor Domnikov) but most deaths that have resulted in prosecution take, on average, 12–24 months between the killing and the verdict.\n\nRates of conviction are a different matter. When the death was not related to the journalist's work the conviction rate exceeds 90%. When the journalist's death was certainly or seems likely to have been related to his or her work, the rate of acquittals rise sharply to around half of the total. Most trials are still held before a judge, aided by two lay assessors. Trial by judge and jury, which is still very rare in Russia, generally offers a more rigorous testing of evidence, robust defence of the suspects, and a higher chance of the defendant being found not guilty (average acquittal rate of 20%). The Politkovskaya murder trial, which was held before a jury, ended in February 2009 with the acquittal of all those accused.\n\nIf approximately three quarters of journalists's murders over the past 16 years were not related to their investigations and publications However, the CJES considers that up to 70% of assaults, which annually run into the dozens, are work-related. Sometimes these are very serious. In November 2008, Mikhail Beketov, chief editor of the \"Khimkinskaya pravda\", a paper in a Moscow suburb, was beaten so severely that although he survived, and his paper even resumed limited publication, by early 2010 he had still not regained the power of speech or independent movement. He died in 2013.\n\nOver the past decade the Russian authorities have been repeatedly urged by Western governments and international media bodies to do more to investigate the deaths of journalists. The Paris-based Reporters Without Borders frequently criticized Russia for what it described as a failure to investigate these murders. The organization further claimed that many of the murdered journalists had been critical of Russian President, Vladimir Putin. Between March 2000 and July 2007, Reporters Without Borders claimed 21 journalists were murdered in Russia because of their work.\n\nSimilar figures were produced by the CPJ. In a June 2007 statement, the CPJ said, \"A total of 47 journalists have been killed in Russia since 1992, with the vast majority of killings unsolved,\". Seventeen of these journalists had been killed \"in the line of duty\" since 2000: 14 were murdered in retaliation for their journalism, \"two died in crossfire; and one was killed while covering a dangerous assignment\". The CPJ was continuing to investigate the deaths of eight other journalists to see if there was a link between their murder and their work. According to the CPJ, none of the 14 murders committed since 2000 had been solved and \"13 bear the marks of contract hits\".\n\nPressure on the Russian authorities increased in late 2006 after the murder of Anna Politkovskaya. In June 2007, the board of the World Association of Newspapers passed a resolution, calling on the authorities in Russia to \"investigate journalist deaths more vigorously\":\n\nOn 18 June 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed House Resolution 151, calling on Putin to \"step-up efforts to investigate\" the murders. In a report published in 2007, the International News Safety Institute said more journalists had died violent deaths in Russia in the previous 10 years than anywhere in the world apart from Iraq, though it offered statistics rather than details of the individual victims. The British \"New Statesman\" magazine's website, which it described as \"solidarity with the dead, and in association with Amnesty International, Center for Journalism in Extreme Situations, the Committee to Protect Journalists, and Index on Censorship\" published a list of 40 Russian journalists killed since 1993, representing only some of those who died.\n\nImmediately after Politkovskaya's murder doubts were expressed about the chances of justice being done, even though the victim in this case was a journalist who had acquired a worldwide reputation (cf. Dmitry Kholodov in 1994). American commentator Anne Applebaum thought that the murderers of Politkovskaya would never be found. There were also some dissenting and sceptical voices.\n\nRecent killings, in various parts of Russia, of Ilyas Shurpayev, Yury Shebalkin, Konstantin Borovko and Leonid Etkind did indeed lead to trials and convictions. This was also true of some of the men involved in the brutal, earlier murder of 23-year-old Internet journalist Vladimir Sukhomlin. Ilya Zimin's alleged killer, meanwhile, was tried in his native Moldova and acquitted. Yet these examples do not disprove the charge of partial justice since only one of the deaths was related beyond doubt to the journalistic work of the victim.\n\nCriticism from abroad was frequently perceived and rejected as selective. However, Russia's sought-for status as a member of G8 from 1997 onwards set a benchmark that showed the continuing deaths of journalists, and of other media restrictions within the country, in an unfavourable light. Also of importance was the country's admission to the Council of Europe and, as a result, the potential involvement, after 1998, of the European Court of Human Rights as an arbiter of last resort. Unsuccessful attempts were made for the 2004 acquittal of Dmitry Kholodov's alleged killers to be examined in Strasbourg. So far the Court has only once determined the failure of the Russian authorities to pursue those responsible for the violent deaths of journalists. In 2005 it ruled that the October 1999 killing in Chechnya of cameramen Ramzan Mezhidov and Shamil Gigayev and of more than thirty other civilians who died during the same incident had not been properly investigated.\n\n\"What follows is a list of journalists (reporters, editors, cameramen, photographers) who have been killed in Russia since 1992. It includes deaths from all violent, premature and unexplained causes; more information can be found in the English and Russian versions of the IFJ database.\" An indication whether the death is certainly [J], possibly [?J] or most probably not [nJ] linked to the journalist's investigative work and publications follows each name.\n\n1992\n\n\n1993\n\n\nOctober events in Moscow\n\n\"Sunday, 3 October, from 7.30 pm onwards. Outside and inside the Ostankino TV tower\".\n\n\"Monday, 4 October, after midday. near Supreme Soviet building\".\n1994\nThere were also four deaths in Chechnya after the conflict there began in November.\n\n1995\n1996\n\n1997\n1998\n1999\n\n2000\n2001\n2002\n2003\n2004\n\n2005\n\n2006\n2007\n\n2008\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis category overlaps with that for Russia as a whole. It highlights the link between journalism, public activism, and human rights activists. In their different ways, the deaths of Dmitry Krikoryants, Dmitry Kholodov, Nadezhda Chaikova, Viktor Popkov, Anna Politkovskaya, Anastasia Baburova, Stanislav Markelov, and Natalia Estemirova all show that the troubled situation in the small North Caucasian republic reaches well beyond its formal borders.\n\nFor all who died, or were fatally wounded in Chechnya, see records in the IFJ database. Those killed in locations near or far from the North Caucasian republic (e.g. Natalya Alyakina, Anna Politkovskaya) whose deaths were also a consequence of the armed conflict in Chechnya.\n\n\n\nNo journalists are recorded as having been killed between September 1996 and October 1999 but 22 were kidnapped during these three years and later released.\n\nA counter-terrorist operation by the federal authorities began in the region in September 1999. It was declared over on 16 April 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36182010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36182010", "title": "List of regional languages of the Philippines", "text": "List of regional languages of the Philippines\n\nThis is the list of recognized regional languages in the Philippines as ordered and permitted by the Department of Education (Philippines) under the Mother Tongue-Based Multi-Lingual Education (MTB-MLE) strategy:\n\n● Aklanon\n\n● Alta, Northern\n\n● Alta, Southern\n\n● Atta\n\n● Bikol\n\n● Cebuano\n\n● Chavacano\n\n● Ga'dang\n\n● Gaddang\n\n● Hiligaynon\n\n● Ibaloy\n\n● Ibanag\n\n● Ilocano\n\n● Isinai\n\n● Isnag\n\n● Itawis\n\n● Itneg\n\n● Ivatan\n\n● Kankanaey\n\n● Kapampangan\n\n● Kinaray-a\n\n● Labin Agta\n\n● Maguindanao\n\n● Manobo\n\n● Maranao\n\n● Pangasinan\n\n● Sambal\n\n● Surigaonon\n\n● Tagalog\n\n● Tausug\n\n● Waray\n\n● Yakan\n\n● Yogad\n\nThe Philippines' Department of Education decided to implement the program starting school year 2012. The Mother Tongue is primarily taught at kindergarten and grades 1, 2 and 3. The adoption of regional languages as medium of teaching is based on studies which tend to show that using the mother tongue as the language of instruction in the classroom literacy among Filipinos bolster comprehension and critical thinking skills of Filipino children in the school and facilitate learning of second language such as English and the Philippines' national language called Filipino. Filipino is Tagalog-based which means that speakers of Tagalog are speakers of the Philippine national language.\n\nThere are approximately more than 175 languages and dialects in the Philippines which form part of the regional languages group. A few of these languages and dialects are spoken by in islands communities such as Abaknon in Capul island.\n"}
{"id": "38173874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38173874", "title": "List of unrecognized ethnic groups of Guizhou", "text": "List of unrecognized ethnic groups of Guizhou\n\nThere are dozens of ethnic groups in Guizhou province of China that are not officially recognized. These ethnic groups and their languages include:\n\n"}
{"id": "6313062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6313062", "title": "Logo language", "text": "Logo language\n\nLogo is a Central Sudanic language spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo by 210,000 people in 1989 according to SIL.\n"}
{"id": "33354125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33354125", "title": "Lombo language", "text": "Lombo language\n\nThe Lombo language (also called Olombo, Turumbu, Ulumbu) is in the Kele language group of Bantu languages. It is spoken by the Turumbu people of the Tshopo District, Isangi Territory, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n"}
{"id": "4457330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4457330", "title": "Mahsud", "text": "Mahsud\n\nThe Mahsud or Mehsud (), also spelled Maseed (), is a Karlani Pashtun tribe inhabiting mostly the South Waziristan Agency in Federally Administered Tribal Areas of Pakistan. A minor number of Maseed lineages are settled in the Logar Province of Afghanistan, especially in Charkh District, Baraki Barak, and Muhammad Agha, but also in Wardak, Ghazni and Kunduz Provinces. The Maseeds inhabit the center and north of South Waziristan valley, surrounded on three sides by the Darweshkhel Wazirs, and being shut off by the Bettanis on the east from the Derajat and Bannu districts. The Mahsud speak the Waziristani dialect (Maseedwola) of Pashto.\n\nTwo Pashtun tribes, the Ahmadzai Wazirs and the Maseeds, inhabit and dominate South Waziristan. Within the heart of Maseed territory in South Waziristan lies the influential Ormur (Burki) tribe's stronghold of Kaniguram. The Ormurs are considered by other tribes of South Waziristan to be close brethren of the Maseeds due to marital and other ties and the fact that the Ormurs have lived in and controlled Kaniguram for over a thousand years. There are also some Maseeds living in the UAE, Germany and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Maseeds usually pronounce their name \"Māsīd\". They are divided into three great clans or subtribes, namely Manzai, Bahlolzai, and Shamankhel. Maseeds usually call these \"Drei Māsīd\", meaning the \"Three Maseeds\"(DREZE). Each tribe has his own Khan. In the words of Sir Olaf Caroe, who acted as the former governor of the British Indian Frontier, \"The Maseed tribe are a people who can never even think of submitting to a foreign power.\" From 1860 to 1937, the English forces repeatedly attacked Maseed positions, but never got a foothold in the area.\n\nThe Maseeds originally lived in the centre of waziristan area of FATA. In the later 14th century, they migrated eastwards, and fell into dispute with the Bannuchi and Khattak tribes settled in the Shawal area. The Maseeds and the Wazirs succeeded to defeat the Khattaks and pushed them northeastwards towards Bannu and Kohat. Eventually, the Mahsuds settled at the center of Waziristan, in the Makeen, Kaniguram and Lada area.\n\nDuring the British colonial period, the Maseeds were invaded several times by the British Empire, in 1860, 1881, 1894-5, 1900-1, 1919-20 and in 1925's Pink's War.\n\nThe Maseed tribe inhabits a large portion of the center of Waziristan, which is drained by the Tank Zam and Shahur Rivers. The Maseed territory is a rough triangle between Jandola, the hills north of Razmak, and from Shuidar to Janimela, north of Wana. No portion of their territory touches the “settled” districts, and the tribe is surrounded on the north and west by the Wazirs, on the east by the Bhittanis, and on the south by the Wazirs and Shranis.\n\nWith the exception of a few Shabi Khel in the Bannu District, some land near Gumal in the Tank Tehsil, and the colonies at Chark and elsewhere in the Logar Valley in Afghanistan, none of the Maseed own land outside of South Waziristan Agency. To escape the severe cold in the higher hills during the winter, a large number move down to the lower valleys but always keep within the Maseed territorial limits. Many of these people live in caves or tents.\n\n“South Waziristan is mountainous with several high peaks; Pirghal, for example, being 11,600 feet. The Gomal is the main river, in addition to which there are many hill torrents, which…remain dry for most of the year.”\n\nThe mountains and valleys geographically isolate the Maseed from large scale movements of invaders and provide excellent opportunities to conduct effective ambushes on enemies.\n\nThe cave villages along the Shahur River near Barwand and along the Split Toi provide excellent hiding places and defensive positions.\n\nMany Maseed inhabit in the lower valleys during the winter. They return to family compounds at higher elevations during the summer.\n\nValleys: Wacha Khwara, Ladha, Baddar, Darra Algad, Khaisara, Mastang, Shaktu, Sheranna, Split Toi, Tak Zam\n\nPlains: Razmak\n\nMountains: Kundeygaar, Pre Ghal, Spin Ghar, Spinkamar\n\nRivers: Tak Zam, Gomal, Shahur, Shinkai Toi, Baddar Toi, Split Toi, Lower Khaisara Toi, Tauda China, Kundygar, Osspass, Karrama, Torwam, Thangi Parkhai\n\nThe climate in the region is hot in summer, with high temperatures around 110 degrees Fahrenheit, and cool in winter, with low temperatures around 35 degrees Fahrenheit. There is modest rainfall in July and August and in January and February.\n\nOn many occasions the Afghan throne was saved with the help of the Maseed (like general Ramzan Khan Maseed Shamankhel, Shabaram Khan Machikhel, Bakhan Maseed, Mosa Khan Maseed, Miajee Maseed, Jagar Maseed etc.), Burki/Baraki, and Wazirs from Waziristan, Pakistan. Of those who fought during this time, most came back to their homeland, but those who stayed were given high ranks of office, such as Faiz Muhammad Maseed, who was appointed as an interior minister during the Reign of Daud Khan in the 1970s.\nToday the majority of Maseeds are still in Logar Province, with the title of Waziri, but by caste, they are Maseeds. The majority of these are with a sub-caste of Malik Denai, Dramankel, Faridi, Shamirai شمیرائی, Shabi khel, etc. When the Soviet-Afghan War started, some of these families came back to Waziristan but could not stay there, so they moved to cities like Peshawar and Karachi. Some of them stayed in waziristan and D.I.Khan. The Maseed helped to defeat the British invading troops and saved Afghanistan, they contributed a lot because Afghanistan was nearly in the hands of British.\n\nJohn Ayde described the Maseeds:\n\nThey are poor but brave… and although turbulent and difficult to deal with, still have a great love of their country and cherish their independence, possessing qualities that we admire ourselves, and which deserve consideration and respect.\n\nMaseed are very good marksmen and have the reputation of trustworthiness. Maseed is the most independent of all the tribes. Even their own maliks have a very limited control over them. However, Maseed have been increasingly integrated within Pakistani society since independence.\nIn 1850, Lewat's tribesmen the Great Baromi's (Shabi Khel) defeated 3,000 British troops with only 300 fighters, using guerrilla tactics by attacking the British in the Valley of Bobar (Waziristan) from all sides with outdated rifles and swords. This attack demoralized the British and made them fearful of the Maseeds. Survivors of this attack reported that the sight of the Maseed tribesmen charging at them (with loud roars and wearing long hair and beards like Lions) affected them mentally.\n\nIn 1860, three thousand Maseed tribesmen attacked the British regiment base in Tank (present South Waziristan). The British struggled to defeat them.\n\nIn 1897, Mujahed tribesmen again stood up against the British all the way from Quetta kakar, and the British experienced difficulty when engaging them. It was during this time that the name of Mullah Powindah [Jagar Draman Khil][Miajee] [Laly Malik Denai] [Mulla ShaSaleem kaka] emerged. \"Powindah\" comes from the Pashto language, meaning \"nomad\".\n\nDay after day, Mullah Powindah grew more popular and famous.and his right hand mulla shasaleem kaka machikhel popular of all wazir, Maseed trib. He emerged as a legendary figure among the people of the region and beyond. There was even a time the British considered him to be the sole leader of the Waziristan country. His followers would sporadically kill individual British officers. However, the British were not able to capture the attackers, who would return to their mountain hideouts. All attempts to stop these attacks were unsuccessful.\n\nIn 1907, the Wazir and Maseed tribesmen were blocked from entry into any government-controlled territory. Economic sanctions were imposed, blocking even basic amenities, such as food and medicine. The British commander of that time blockaded the areas of Makin and Kaniguram. Various areas were searched to arrest Mullah Powindah without success. The British thought that the tribesmen were receiving weapons by sea, from the coast of Balochistan and responded by creating check posts, but no weapons were confiscated.\n\nMullah Powindah died in 1913. It could be said that he was the crownless emperor of one of the most fiercesome of the Pashtun Tribes, the Maseeds. Upon his death, his son Shah Fazal Din was given leadership and his son-in-law, Mulla Abdul Hakeem kakar, was appointed his adviser. They have good relations with Amir Abdul Rahman Khan, the Amir of Afghanistan.\n\nWhen World War I started in 1915, the British were concerned that they would be engaged in battle on more than one front. This was a threat to their safety and economy, so they decided to close those fronts of lesser significance. They abandoned their ‘Forward Policy’ for the time being and sent a message of friendship and peace to the tribes. The tribes did not trust the British, and rejected these peace proposals. Instead, the Maseed assembled a militia to attack the British.\n\nBy this time, the British had established an air force in the subcontinent, which was used to harass the tribesmen, and as a result the tribe's hatred of the British increased. As a result of their suffering they were bent upon taking revenge, and hence their morale increased. A series of attacks were made by the Maseeds, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy. The attack on the Marhatta Regiment resulted in the deaths of hundreds of sepoys and five British Officers. In the attack on the Punjab Regiment, the Maseed warriors slaughtered everyone. The aerial bombardments had inflicted significant losses on the tribesmen, but they were content that they were also doing well and had killed around 250 of the enemy forces.\n\nAfter the end of World War I, the British returned to Waziristan. This time, they built roads and forts throughout the land. The sophistication and constant patrols of the British Air Force helped create a secure atmosphere for their ground troops. With this sense of security, the British Army constructed a road from Jandola to Ladha. At Razmak, they constructed a cantonment for their army officers and soldiers.\n\nBy 1922-23, all the British forces had moved from Wana to Razmak. They had constructed an airport there and instead of flying all the way from India, their aircraft would fly from Razmak Airport and bomb the countryside. Because of this, the countryside of Makin was totally devastated. The Maseed deemed it appropriate at this time to agree to a ceasefire because this new British tactic was inflicting widespread losses on their side. The ceasefire, they imagined, would also enable them to devise a strategy for countering the latest British advances.\n\nIn 1925, the Royal Air Force successfully put down a Maseed rebellion by strafing the tribes' mountain strongholds. The action, which came to be known as Pink's War led to the tribal leaders seeking peace terms.\n\nIn 1927 Ghazi Ramadan Khan Mahsud attacked Wana camp with a huge lashkar (tribal militia). The result was a big loss for the British army. In 1928 Ghazi Ramadan Khan Mahsud re-assembled his lashkar again for his next attack, on Sararogha Fort. This time he attacked with a powerful force, killed all of the defending soldiers (numbering 300) and took hold of the Fort.\n\nImmediately after Pakistan came into existence, Maseeds raised a tribal militia which entered Kashmir to help the newly created state Pakistan to capture Kashmir. They quickly reached Baramulla town, instead of pressing on to the capital, Srinagar, to seize Kashmir completely.\n\nA large number of tribals from Pakistan attacked Kashmir under the code name \"Operation Gulmarg\" to seize Kashmir. The invading tribals started moving along Rawalpindi-Murree-Muzaffarabad-Baramulla Road on 22 October 1947 with Muzaffarabad fell on 24 October 1947. They reached and captured Baramulla on 25 October.\n\nPir Roshan is the first person who founded the Pashto alphabet. He was born in Kanygram of Waziristan. The Roshani Ghorzang was one of the great revolutions in the land of Pshtonkhwa. Mula Shasleem kaka, Mula Pawenda Maseed and Haji Mirza Ali Khan Fight several years for the unity of both side Pashtons.\n\nMaseed have a Maseed Jarga for large problems. The Jarga is a tribal assembly of elders which takes decisions by consensus, particularly among the Pashtun people.\n\nAttan, is the famous dance of Maseed tribe. Dhol is also widely used in Waziristan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228566", "title": "Mail art", "text": "Mail art\n\nMail art (also known as postal art and correspondence art) is a populist artistic movement centered on sending small scale works through the postal service. It initially developed out of what eventually became Ray Johnson's New York Correspondence School in the 1950s and the Fluxus movement in the 1960s, though it has since developed into a global movement that continues to the present.\n\nMedia commonly used in mail art include postcards, paper, a collage of found or recycled images and objects, rubber stamps, artist-created stamps (called artistamps), and paint, but can also include music, sound art, poetry, or anything that can be put in an envelope and sent via post. Mail art is considered art once it is dispatched. Mail artists regularly call for thematic or topical mail art for use in (often unjuried) exhibition.\n\nMail artists appreciate interconnection with other artists. The artform promotes an egalitarian way of creating that frequently circumvents official art distribution and approval systems such as the art market, museums, and galleries. Mail artists rely on their alternative \"outsider\" network as the primary way of sharing their work, rather than being dependent on the ability to locate and secure exhibition space.\n\nMail art can be seen as anticipating the cyber communities founded on the Internet.\n\nArtist Edward M. Plunkett has argued that communication-as-art-form is an ancient tradition; he posits (tongue in cheek) that mail art began when Cleopatra had herself delivered to Julius Caesar in a rolled-up carpet.\n\nThe American artist Ray Johnson is considered to be the first mail artist. Johnson's experiments with art in the mail began in 1943, while the posting of instructions and soliciting of activity from his recipients began in the mid-1950s with the mailing of his \"moticos\", and thus provided mail art with a blueprint for the free exchange of art via post.\n\nThe term \"mail art\" was coined in the 1960s. In 1962, Plunkett coined the term \"New York Correspondence School\" to refer to Johnson's activities; Johnson adopted this moniker but sometimes intentionally misspelled it as \"correspondance.\" The deliberate misspelling was characteristic of the playful spirit of the Correspondance School and its actions.\n\nMost of the Correspondance School members are fairly obscure, and the letters they sent, often featuring simple drawings or stickers, often instructed the recipient to perform some fairly simple action. Johnson's work consists primarily of letters, often with the addition of doodles and rubber stamped messages, which he mailed to friends and acquaintances. The Correspondance School was a network of individuals who were artists by virtue of their willingness to play along and appreciate Johnson's sense of humor. One example of the activities of the Correspondance School consisted in calling meetings of fan clubs, such as one devoted to the actress Anna May Wong. Many of Johnson's missives to his network featured a hand drawn version of what became a personal logo or alter-ego, a bunny head.\n\nIn a 1968 interview, Johnson explained that he found mailed correspondence interesting because of the limits it puts on the usual back and forth interaction and negotiation that comprises communication between individuals. Correspondence is \"a way to convey a message or a kind of idea to someone which is not verbal; it is not a confrontation of two people. It's an object which is opened in privacy, probably, and the message is looked at ... You look at the object and, depending on your degree of interest, it very directly gets across to you what is there ...\"\n\nIn 1970, Johnson and Marcia Tucker organized The New York Correspondence School Exhibition at the Whitney Museum in New York, which was the first significant public exhibition of the mail art genre.\n\nOn April 5, 1973, Johnson declared the \"death\" of the New York Correspondance School in an unpublished letter to the Obituary Department of \"The New York Times\" and in copies that he circulated to his network. However, he continued to practice mail art even after this.\n\nAlthough much of Johnson's work was initially given away, this hasn't prevented it from attaining a market value. Andy Warhol is quoted as saying he would pay ten dollars for anything by Johnson.\"\n\nIn his 1973 diagram showing the development and scope of Fluxus, George Maciunas included mail art among the activities pursued by the Fluxus artist Robert Filliou. Filliou coined the term the \"Eternal Network\" that has become synonymous with mail art. Other Fluxus artists have been involved since the early 1960s in the creation of artist's postage stamps (Robert Watts, Stamp Dispenser, 1963), postcards (Ben Vautier, The Postman's Choice, 1965: a postcard with a different address on each side) and other works connected to the postal medium. \"Indeed, the mail art network counts many Fluxus members among its earliest participants. While Johnson did not consider himself directly as a member of the Fluxus school, his interests and attitudes were consistent with those of a number of Fluxus artists.\n\nIn the 1970s, the practice of mail art grew considerably, providing a cheap and flexible channel of expression for cultural outsiders. It was particularly widespread where state censorship prevented a free circulation of alternative ideas, as in certain countries behind the Iron Curtain or in South America.\n\nThe growth of a sizable mail art community, with friendships born out of personal correspondence and, increasingly, mutual visits, led in the 1980s to the organization of several festivals, meetings and conventions where networkers could meet, socialize, perform, exhibit and plan further collaborations. Among these events were the Inter Dada Festivals organized in California in the early 1980s and the Decentralized Mail Art Congress of 1986.\n\nIn 1984 curator Ronny Cohen organized an exhibition for the Franklin Furnace, New York, called \"Mail Art Then and Now.\" The exhibition was to have an historical aspect as well as showing new mail art, and to mediate the two aspects Cohen edited the material sent to Franklin Furnace, breaking an unwritten but commonly accepted custom that all works submitted must be shown. The intent to edit, interpreted as censorship, resulted in a two-part panel discussion sponsored by Artists Talk on Art (organized by mail artist Carlo Pittore and moderated by art critic Robert C. Morgan) in February of that year, where Cohen and the mail artists were to debate the issues.\n\nThe night preceding the second panel on February 24, Carlo Pittore, John P. Jacob, Chuck Welch a.k.a. CrackerJack Kid, David Cole and John Held, Jr. crafted a statement asking Dr. Cohen to step down as the panel moderator. Welch delivered the statement whereby Dr. Cohen was asked to remain on the panel but forfeit her right to serve as moderator. Instead of remaining, Cohen chose to leave the event. After some give and take with both panelists and audience, Dr. Cohen left, saying, \"Have fun boys.\" Her entourage walked out with her during the ensuing melee. \n\nThe excluded works were ultimately added to the exhibition by the staff of the Franklin Furnace, but the events surrounding it and the panels revealed ideological rifts within the mail art community. Simultaneously fanning the flames and documenting the extent to which it was already dominated by a small, mostly male, coterie of artists, the discussions were transcribed and published by panelist John P. Jacob in his short-lived mail art zine PostHype. In a letter to panelist Mark Bloch, Ray Johnson (who was not a panelist) commented on the reverse-censorship and sexism of the event.\n\nThe rise of mail art meetings and congresses during the late 80s, and the articulation of various \"isms\" proclaimed by their founders as movements within mail art, were in part a response to fractures made visible by the events surrounding the Franklin Furnace exhibition. Even if \"tourism\" was proposed satirically as a new movement by H.R. Fricker, a Swiss mail artist who was one of the organizers of the 1986 Mail Art Congress, nevertheless mail art in its pure form would continue to function without the personal meeting between so-called networkers.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Fricker and Bloch, in a bilingual \"Open Letter To Everybody in the Network\" stated, \"1) An important function of he exhibitions and other group projects in the network is: to open channels to other human beings. 2) After your exhibition is shown and the documentation sent, or after you have received such a documentation with a list of addresses, \"use the channels\"! 3) Create person-to-person correspondence... 4) You have your own unique energy which you can give to others through your work: visual audio, verbal, etc. 5) This energy is best used when it is exchanged for energy from another person with the same intentions. 6) the power of the network is in the quality of the direct correspondence, not the quantity.\" The manifesto concludes, \"We have learned this from our own mistakes.\" \n\nIn 1994, Dutch mail artist Ruud Janssen began a series of mail-interviews which became an influential contribution in the field of mail art.\n\nBy the 1990s, mail art's peak in terms of global postal activities had been reached, and mail artists, aware of increasing postal rates, were beginning the gradual migration of collective art projects towards the web and new, cheaper forms of digital communication. The Internet facilitated faster dissemination of mail art calls (invitations) and precipitated the involvement of a large number of newcomers. Mail art blogs and websites became ever more frequently used to display contributions and online documentation, even if many mail artists still preferred the surprise of a catalogue found in their mailbox.\n\nIn spite of the many links and similarities between historical avant-garde, alternative art practices (visual poetry, copy art, artist's books) and mail art, one aspect that distinguishes the creative postal network from other artistic movements, schools or groups (including Fluxus) is the way it disregards and circumvents for the commercial art market. Any person with access to a mailbox can participate in the postal network and exchange free artworks, and each mail artist is free to decide how and when to answer (or not answer) a piece of incoming mail. Participants are invited by network members to take part in collective projects or unjuried exhibitions in which entries are not selected or judged. While contributions may be solicited around a particular theme, work to a required size, or sent in by a deadline, mail art generally operates within a spirit of \"anything goes.\"\n\nThe mail art philosophy of openness and inclusion is exemplified by the \"rules\" included in invitations (calls) to postal projects: a mail art show has no jury, no entry fee, there is no censorship, and all works are exhibited. The original contributions are not to be returned and remain the property of the organizers, but a catalogue or documentation is sent free to all the participants in exchange for their works. Although these rules are sometimes stretched, they have generally held up for four decades, with only minor dissimilarities and adjustments, like the occasional requests to avoid works of explicit sexual nature, calls for projects with specific participants, or the recent trend to display digital documentation on blogs and websites instead of personally sending printed paper to contributors.\nMail art has been exhibited in alternative spaces such as private apartments, municipal buildings, and shop windows, as well as in galleries and museums worldwide. Mail art shows, periodicals, and projects represent the \"public\" side of postal networking, a practice that has at its core the direct and private interaction between the individual participants. Mail artists value the process of exchanging ideas and the sense of belonging to a global community that is able to maintain a peaceful collaboration beyond differences of language, religion and ideology; this is one aspect that differentiates the mail art network from the world of commercial picture postcards and of simply \"mailed art.\"\n\nA mail artist may have hundreds of correspondents from many different countries, or build a smaller core circle of favorite contacts. Mail art is widely practiced in Europe, North and South America, Russia, Australia and Japan, with smaller numbers of participants also in Africa, and China. In addition to being kept by the recipient, mail art archives have attracted the interest of libraries, archives, museums, and private collectors. Or, the works may be 'worked into' and recycled back to the sender or to another networker.\nRay Johnson suggested (with a pun) that \"mail art has no history, only a present\", and mail artists have followed his playful attitude in creating their own mythologies. Parody art movements like neoism and plagiarism have challenged notions of originality, as have the shared pseudonymous names Monty Cantsin and Karen Eliot, which were proposed for serial use by anyone. Semi-fictional organizations have been set up and virtual lands invented, imaginary countries for which artistamps are issued. Furthermore, attempts have been made to document and define the history of a complex and underestimated phenomenon that has spanned five decades. Various essays, graduate theses, guides and anthologies of mail art writings have appeared in print and on the Internet, often written by veteran networkers.\nA sub-group of envelope art has its genesis in the Grateful Dead Ticket Service. Looking to help their fans avoid the high fees that are generated by national ticket services the Grateful Dead started their own service, commonly referred to as mail order. At some point fans started decorating their envelopes with art. Some for art's sake, others to grab the attention of the people that dole out tickets in hope of better seats.http://www.gdtstoo.com/\n\nBecause the democratic ethos of mail art is one of inclusion, both in terms of participants ('anyone who can afford the postage') and in the scope of art forms, a broad range of media are employed in creation of mail artworks. Certain materials and techniques are commonly used and frequently favored by mail artists due to their availability, convenience, and ability to produce copies.\n\nMail art has adopted and appropriated several of graphic forms already associated with the postal system. The rubber stamp officially used for franking mail, already utilized by Dada and Fluxus artists, has been embraced by mail artists who, in addition to reusing ready-made rubber stamps, have them professionally made to their own designs. They also carve into erasers with linocut tools to create handmade ones. These unofficial rubber stamps, whether disseminating mail artists' messages or simply announcing the identity of the sender, help to transform regular postcards into artworks and make envelopes an important part of the mail art experience.\nMail art has also appropriated the postage stamp as a format for individual expression. Inspired by the example of Cinderella stamps and Fluxus faux-stamps, the artistamp has spawned a vibrant sub-network of artists dedicated to creating and exchanging their own stamps and stamp sheets. Artist Jerry Dreva of the conceptual art group Les Petits Bonbons created a set of stamps and sent them to David Bowie who then used them as the inspiration for the cover of the single \"Ashes to Ashes\" released in 1980. Artistamps and rubber stamps, have become important staples of mail artworks, particularly in the enhancement of postcards and envelopes. The most important anthology of rubberstamp art was published by the artist Hervé Fischer in his book \"Art and Marginal Communication\", Balland, Paris, 1974 - in French, English and German, to note also the catalog of the exhibition \"Timbres d'artistes\", Published of Musée de la Poste, Paris, 1993, organized by the french artist Jean-Noël Laszlo - in French, English.\n\nSome mail artists lavish more attention on the envelopes than the contents within. Painted envelopes are one-of-a-kind artworks with the handwritten address becoming part of the work. Stitching, embossing and an array of drawing materials can all be found on postcards, envelopes and on the contents inside.\n\nPrinting is suited to mail artists who distribute their work widely. Various printmaking techniques, in addition to rubber stamping, are used to create multiples. Copy art (xerography, photocopy) is a common practice, with both mono and color copying being extensively used within the network. Ubiquitous 'add & pass' sheets that are designed to be circulated through the network with each artist adding and copying, chain-letter fashion, have also received some unfavorable criticism. However, Xerography has been a key technology in the creation of many short-run periodicals and zines about mail art, and for the printed documentation that has been the traditional project culmination sent to participants. Inkjet and laserprint computer printouts are also used, both to disseminate artwork and for reproducing zines and documentation, and PDF copies of paperless periodicals and unprinted documentation are circulated by email. Photography is widely used as an art form, to provide images for artistamps and rubber stamps, and within printed and digital magazines and documentation, while some projects have focused on the intersection of mail art with the medium itself.\n\nLettering, whether handwritten or printed, is integral to mail art. The written word is used as a literary art form, as well as for personal letters and notes sent with artwork and recordings of the spoken word, both of poetry and prose, are also a part of the network. Although English has been the de facto language, because of the movement's inception in America, an increasing number of mail artists, and mail artist groups on the Internet, now communicate in Breton, French, Italian, German, Spanish, and Russian.\n\nIn addition to appropriating the postage stamp model, mail artists have assimilated other design formats for printed artworks. Artists' books, decobooks and friendship books, banknotes, stickers, tickets, artist trading cards (ATCs), badges, food packaging, diagrams and maps have all been used.\nMail artists routinely mix media; collage and photomontage are popular, affording some mail art the stylistic qualities of pop art or Dada. Mail artists often use collage techniques to produce original postcards, envelopes and work that may be transformed using copy art techniques or computer software, then photocopied or printed out in limited editions.\n\nPrinted matter and ephemera are often circulated among mail artists, and after artistic treatment, these common items enter into the mail art network. Small assemblages, sculptural forms or found objects of irregular shapes and sizes are parceled up or sent unwrapped to deliberately tease and test the efficiency of the postal service. Mailable fake fur (\"Hairmail\") and Astroturf postcards were circulated in the late 1990s.\n\nHaving borrowed the notion of intermedia from Fluxus, mail artists are often active simultaneously in several different fields of expression. Music and sound art have long been celebrated aspects of mail art, at first using cassette tape, then on CD and as sound files sent via the Internet.\n\nPerformance art has also been a prominent facet, particularly since the advent of mail art meetings and congresses. Performances recorded on film or video are communicated via DVD and movie files over the internet. Video is also increasingly being employed to document mail art shows of all kinds.\n\n\"Correspondence art is an elusive art form, far more variegated by its very nature than, say, painting. Where a painting always involves paint and a support surface, correspondence art can appear as any one of dozens of media transmitted through the mail. While the vast majority of correspondence art or mail art activities take place in the mail, today's new forms of electronic communication blur the edges of that forum. In the 1960s, when correspondence art first began to blossom, most artists found the postal service to be the most readily available - and least expensive - medium of exchange. Today's micro-computers with modern facilities offer anyone computing and communicating power that two decades ago were available only to the largest institutions and corporations, and only a few decades previous weren't available to anyone at any price.\" - Ken Friedman\n\"Cultural exchange is a radical act. It can create paradigms for the reverential sharing and preservation of the earth's water, soil, forests, plants and animals. The ethereal networker aesthetic calls for guiding that dream through action. Cooperation and participation, and the celebration of art as a birthing of life, vision, and spirit are first steps. The artists who meet each other in the Eternal Network have taken these steps. Their shared enterprise is a contribution to our common future.\" - Chuck Welch\n\n\"The purpose of mail art, an activity shared by many artists throughout the world, is to establish an aesthetical communication between artists and common people in every corner of the globe, to divulge their work outside the structures of the art market and outside the traditional venues and institutions: a free communication in which words and signs, texts and colours act like instruments for a direct and immediate interaction.\" - Loredana Parmesani\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "35257852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35257852", "title": "Michael Harold Chapel", "text": "Michael Harold Chapel\n\nMichael Harold Chapel is a former Gwinnett County Georgia police officer, who was convicted in the murder of fifty-three-year-old Emogene Thompson outside a muffler shop on Peachtree Industrial Boulevard in Sugar Hill, Georgia.\n\nOn the evening of April 15, 1993, Thompson was shot in the head while she was seated in her parked car.\n\nThe case was presided over by Judge Bishop. Verdicts in the case were returned from a jury on September 8, 1995 and September 10, 1995 of life imprisonment, instead of the death penalty.\n\nCompletely independent of both the prosecution, and a mandatory Policemen's Benevolent Association (PBA) review of the accusations; Congressman James Traficant launched an investigation of his own into the charges against Chapel.\n\nThompson, who lived in a trailer home with her son, reported to the Gwinnett County Police Department that about half of $14,000 in cash that was in her possession had been stolen. Chapel was the first to respond. He stated to her that because only part of the money was missing, that he suspected her son. Thompson told several friends that she was planning to meet with Chapel after he told her he wanted to compare serial numbers on the bills. Chapel is currently held in Long State Prison. \n\nThe body of Thompson was discovered inside her car the following morning at a muffler shop on Peachtree Industrial Boulevard.\n"}
{"id": "27155831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27155831", "title": "Muslim Dogra", "text": "Muslim Dogra\n\nThe Dogra Muslim are a Muslim community found in Indian-administered Jammu and Kashmir. They are Muslim converts from the larger Hindu Dogra community. A large number of Dogra Muslim are also now found in the province of Punjab in Pakistan. They are also known as Rajahs, especially in Pakistan.\n\nThe term Dogra Muslim is restricted to those who inhabit a small hilly tract known as the Duggar Des, comprising the districts of Kathua, Jammu Samba and Udhampur. They are culturally distinct from the Chibhali community that inhabit the western part of the Jammu administrative region. The community are mainly converts from the Dogra community, with the conversions having occurred during the period of Mughal rule. They belong mainly to the Thakkar, Rathore, Manhas, Jarral, Chib and Pal tribal groups. Many Dogra Muslim fled to Pakistan at the time of Indo-Pakistani War of 1947. They speak Dogri and Punjabi.\n\nThe Dogra Muslim inhabit a hilly terrain, and practice agriculture. They are endogamous, but unlike the Hindu Dogras, do not practice clan exogamy. In their homeland, the Dogra Muslim inhabit their own villages, although there are some mixed settlements with the Gujjar and Bakarwal, two neighbouring Muslim communities. Those Dogra Muslim who moved to Pakistan are settled mainly in Punjab, inhabiting their villages, although there is shift towards adopting standard Punjabi and Urdu languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "11447055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11447055", "title": "Nessim Gaon", "text": "Nessim Gaon\n\nNessim Gaon (, ) (born 1922, in Khartoum, Sudan) is a Swiss financier who created the Noga SA. Outside the business world, he has been very prominent in Jewish affairs, acting as president of the World Sephardi Federation since 1971. He has also been a vice president of the World Jewish Congress and chairman of the board of governors of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel.\n\nGaon was born in the Sudan to Turkish Jews from Spain, who later moved to Egypt and the Sudan. He married to Renée Tamman (1925-2013). He had three children: Marguerite Herzog, David N. Gaon, and Danielle Coën-Gaon.\n\nAside from all the posts Gaon has held in world Jewish organizations, he is also a founder, builder and member of Hekhal Haness Synagogue in Geneva.\n\n"}
{"id": "3501564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3501564", "title": "New Year tree", "text": "New Year tree\n\nNew Year trees are decorated trees similar to Christmas trees that are displayed to specifically celebrate the New Year. They should not be confused with the practice of leaving up a Christmas tree until after New Year's Day. New Year trees are common in various cultures and nations, chiefly the former Soviet Union, Turkey, China and Vietnam.\n\nRussian and Turkish New Year trees are of the same varieties as those used for Christmas trees, although a spruce tree is the most usual type. The decorations are the same as for Christmas trees. While Russian and Turkish North Americans purchasing a tree after Christmas when prices have plummeted might enjoy notable savings, most do not wait beyond Christmas to buy their trees.\n\nThe tradition of installing and decorating a Ёлка (pr: Yolka, tr: spruce tree) for Christmas dates back to the 17th century when Peter the Great imported the practice as a result of his travels in Europe. Peter decreed in 1699 that the New Year will be celebrated on January 1 instead of September 1, and that \"Fir tree, pine and juniper branches and trees shall be used to decorate houses and gateways along main streets\". However, in Imperial Russia, \"Yolka\" were banned beginning in 1916 by the Synod as a tradition originating in Germany (Russia's enemy during World War I).\n\nAfter the revolution of 1917, Christmas celebrations—along with other religious holidays—were discouraged and de-facto prohibited as a result of the Soviet antireligious campaign. The League of Militant Atheists encouraged school pupils to campaign against Christmas traditions, among them being the Christmas tree, as well as other Christian holidays, including Easter; the League established an antireligious holiday to be the 31st of each month as a replacement. With the Christmas tree being prohibited in accordance with Soviet anti-religious legislation, people supplanted the former Christmas custom with New Year's trees.\n\nThe New Year tree was encouraged in the USSR after the famous letter by Pavel Postyshev, published in \"Pravda\" on 28 December 1935, in which he asked for trees to be installed in schools, children's homes, Young Pioneer Palaces, children's clubs, children's theaters and cinemas. In his letter, Postyshev wrote:\n\nIn 1937, a Novy God (New Year) Tree was also installed in the Moscow House of the Unions. An invitation to the Yolka at the Palace of Unions became a matter of honour for Soviet children. After the dissolution of the USSR, stigma against religion subsided amidst renewed public interest.\n\nA Turkish New Year tree, in Turkish Yılbaşı Ağacı, looks the same as a Christmas tree with Christmas ornaments. It is called a New Year tree because it is specific to the New Year and, with about 95% of Turkey's population Muslim, most Turks do not celebrate Christmas.\n\nAfter the modernisation of Turkey, the Islamic calendar and the fiscal calendar were replaced by the Gregorian calendar and New Year celebrations started in the late 1920s. The celebrations became popular in Turkey and Christmas trees were brought into the country as New Year trees. Since then, the custom of setting up a tree for the New Year is a traditional event in Turkey. It is usually put up between the beginning of December and the end of January, the mid date being New Year's Eve. Also, the habit of giving presents at Christmas was changed to the giving of New Year presents. The New Year tree can be considered an example of westernised Turkish culture or Turkified European culture.\n\nPlanting a New Year tree or cây nêu is also a Vietnamese custom that is part of the springtime Tết festival. Often a bamboo pole serves as the \"tree\".\n\n\"Hoa đào\" (in Northern) or \"Hoa mai\" (in Southern) and kumquat trees are also decorated and displayed in Vietnamese homes during Tết.\n\nIn Cantonese, the new year tree is called \"Nin Fa\" (, literally New Year Flower). Bamboo is just one of the new year trees for the Cantonese, the others being mandarin and peach. The mandarin plant is called \"Kat\" (), which is a homophone to , standing for good luck. The peach flower stands for good relationships; love is one of the relationships, so it's also a wish for love.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49663507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49663507", "title": "Nigerian people in Italy", "text": "Nigerian people in Italy\n\nThe presence of Nigerians in Italy dates back to the 1980s.\n\nIn 2014 in Italy there are 71,158 regular immigrants from Nigeria. In 2006 there were 37,733. The three cities with most number of Nigerians are: Turin, Rome and Padua.\n\n"}
{"id": "31737486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31737486", "title": "Panará language", "text": "Panará language\n\nPanará, also known as Kreen Akarore, is a Ge language of Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "7392008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392008", "title": "Pincus Green", "text": "Pincus Green\n\nPincus Green (born 1934) is an American oil and gas commodities trader.\n\nGreen was born to an Orthodox Jewish family, the seventh of eight children, and raised in Flatbush, Brooklyn. His father was a distributor of confectionery. As a youth, Green attended Jewish parochial schools but dropped out of high school to support his family when he was 16. In 1953, at the age of 17, he got a job working the mailroom at the commodity trading firm, Philipp Brothers. In 1954, Philipps hired Marc Rich in the mailroom and they soon became friends. Both quickly advanced in the company and eventually became top traders in Europe especially in oil trading, Rich in Spain and Green in the Phillips' office in Zug. In 1974, they left Philipp Brothers to form their own company, Marc Rich AG, headquartered in Zug, Switzerland.\n\nGreen fled the United States in 1983, along with partner Marc Rich, after being indicted by U.S. Attorney and future mayor of New York City Rudolph Giuliani, on charges of tax evasion and illegal trading with Iran but in fact, it was legal because their company Rich and Co. was Swiss based company . Soon after fleeing, they sold the U.S. affiliate of Marc Rich AG (renamed Clarendon Ltd) to Alec Hackel, a partner to Green and Rich. U.S. legal authorities determined that the sale was false and froze the assets of the company, which hurt Marc Rich AG's . In 1984, Clarendon paid the U.S. government $150 million to settle tax charges and Marc Rich AG's trading volume recovered. The three partners divided their responsibilities with Rich trading oil, Hackel trading metals and minerals, and Green, responsible for shipping, finance, and administration. \n\nGreen received a presidential pardon along with Rich, from United States President Bill Clinton in 2001. It has been reported that Green has been in retirement since he underwent heart surgery in late 1990.\n\nIn 2005, his net worth was estimated by Forbes magazine at $1.2 billion USD.\n"}
{"id": "621228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=621228", "title": "Population of Canada", "text": "Population of Canada\n\nCanada ranks 38 comprising about 0.5% of the world's total population, with over 37 million Canadians as of 2018. Despite having the 2nd largest landmass, the vast majority of the country is sparsely inhabited, with most of its population south of the 55th parallel north. Though Canada's population density is low, many regions in the south such as Southern Ontario, have population densities higher than several European countries. Canada's largest population centres are Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver, Calgary, Edmonton and Ottawa with those six being the only ones with more than one million people. The large size of Canada's north which is not arable, and thus cannot support large human populations, significantly lowers the carrying capacity. Therefore, the population density of the habitable land in Canada can be modest to high depending on the region.\n\nThe historical growth of Canada's population is complex and has been influenced in many different ways, such as indigenous populations, expansion of territory, and human migration. Being a new world country, Canada has been predisposed to be a very open society with regards to immigration, which has been the most important factor in its historical population growth. The 2016 Canadian census counted a total population of 35,151,728, an increase of around 5.0 percent over the 2011 figure. Between 1990 and 2008, the population increased by 5.6 million, equivalent to 20.4 percent overall growth.\n\nScholars vary on the estimated size of the indigenous population in what is now Canada prior to colonization and on the effects of European contact. During the late 15th century is estimated to have been between 200,000 and two million, with a figure of 500,000 currently accepted by Canada's Royal Commission on Aboriginal Health. Although not without conflict, European Canadians' early interactions with First Nations and Inuit populations were relatively peaceful. However repeated outbreaks of European infectious diseases such as influenza, measles and smallpox (to which they had no natural immunity), combined with other effects of European contact, resulted in a twenty-five percent to eighty percent indigenous population decrease post-contact. Roland G Robertson suggests that during the late 1630s, smallpox killed over half of the Wyandot (Huron), who controlled most of the early North American fur trade in the area of New France. In 1871 there was an enumeration of the indigenous population within the limits of Canada at the time, showing a total of only 102,358 individuals. According to the 2011 Canadian Census, indigenous peoples (First Nations – 851,560, Inuit – 59,445 and Métis – 451,795) numbered at 1,400,685, or 4.3% of the country's total population.\n\nThe European population grew slowly under French rule, thus remained relatively low as growth was largely achieved through natural births, rather than by immigration. Most of the French were farmers, and the rate of natural increase among the settlers themselves was very high. The women had about 30 per cent more children than comparable women who remained in France. Yves Landry says, \"Canadians had an exceptional diet for their time.\" The 1666 census of New France was the first census conducted in North America. It was organized by Jean Talon, the first Intendant of New France, between 1665 and 1666. According to Talon's census there were 3,215 people in New France, comprising 538 separate families. The census showed a great difference in the number of men at 2,034 versus 1,181 women. By the early 1700s the New France settlers were well established along the Saint Lawrence River and Acadian Peninsula with a population around 15,000 to 16,000. Mainly due to natural increase and modest immigration from Northwest France (Brittany, Normandy, Île-de-France, Poitou-Charentes and Pays de la Loire) the population of New France increased to 55,000 according to the last French census of 1754. This was an increase from 42,701 in 1730.\n\nDuring the late 18th and early 19th century Canada under British rule experienced strong population growth. In the wake of the 1775 invasion of Canada by the newly formed Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, approximately 50,000 of the 70,000 United Empire Loyalists fled to British North America, a large portion of whom migrated to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick (separated from Nova Scotia) in 1784: 20,000 to Nova Scotia and 14,000 to New Brunswick. The remainder went to England and the Caribbean. An additional 30,000 Americans, called \"Late Loyalists,\" were lured into Ontario in the 1790s by the promise of land and swearing loyalty to the Crown. As a result of the period knows as the Great Migration by 1831, Lower Canada's population had reached approximately 553,000, with Upper Canada reaching about 237,000 individuals. The Irish Potato Famine of the 1840s had significantly increased the pace of Irish immigration to Prince Edward Island and the Province of Canada, peaking in 1847 with 100,000 distressed individuals. By 1851, the population of the Maritime colonies also reached roughly 533,000 (277,000 in Nova Scotia, 194,000 in New Brunswick and 62,000 in Prince Edward Island). To the west British Columbia had about 55,000 individuals by 1851. Beginning in the late 1850s, the immigration of Chinese into the Colony of Vancouver Island and Colony of British Columbia peaked with the onset of the Fraser Canyon Gold Rush. By 1861, as a result of natural births and the Great Migration of Canada from the British Isles, the Province of Canada population increased to 3.1 million inhabitants. Newfoundland's population by 1861 reached approximately 125,000 individuals.\n\nThe population has increased every year since the establishment of the Dominion of Canada in 1867; however, the population of Newfoundland was not included prior to its entry into confederation as Canada's tenth province in 1949. The first national census of the country was taken in 1871, with a population count around 3,689,000. The year with the least population growth (in real terms) was 1882–1883, when only 30,000 new individuals were enumerated.\n\nThe 1911 census was a detailed enumeration of the population showing a count of 7,206,643 individuals. This was an increase of 34% over the 1901 census of 5,371,315. The year with the most population growth was during the peak of the Post-World War II baby boom in 1956–1957, when the population grew by over 529,000, in a single twelve-month period. The Canadian baby boom, defined as the period from 1947 to 1966, saw more than 400,000 babies born annually. The 1996 census recorded a total population of 28,846,761. This was a 5.7% increase over the 1991 census of 27,296,859. The 2001 census had a total population count of 30,007,094. In contrast, the official Statistics Canada population estimate for 2001 was 31,021,300.\n\nCanada's total population enumerated by the 2006 census was 31,612,897. This count was lower than the official 1 July 2006 population estimate of 32,623,490 people. Ninety-percent of the population growth between 2001 and 2006 was concentrated in the main metropolitan areas. The 2011 census was the fifteenth decennial census with a total population count of 33,476,688 up 5.9% from 2006. On average, censuses have been taken every five years since 1905. Censuses are required to be taken at least every ten years as mandated in section 8 of the Constitution Act, 1867.\n\nIn 2010, Canada's annual population growth rate was 1.238%, or a daily increase of 1,137 individuals. Between 1867 and 2009 Canada's population grew by 979%. Canada had the highest net migration rate (0.61%) of all G-8 member countries between 1994 and 2004. Natural growth accounts for an annual increase of 137,626 persons, at a yearly rate of 0.413%. Between 2001 and 2006, there were 1,446,080 immigrants and 237,418 emigrants, resulting in a net migration of just over 1.2 million people. Since 2001, immigration has ranged between 221,352 and 262,236 immigrants per annum.\nPrior to Canadian confederation in 1867 the population counts reflected only the former colonies and settlements and not the country to be as a whole with indigenous nations separated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5347230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5347230", "title": "Racial classification of Indian Americans", "text": "Racial classification of Indian Americans\n\nThe racial classification of Indian Americans has varied over the years and across institutions. Originally, neither the courts nor the census bureau classified Indian Americans as a race because there were only negligible numbers of Indian immigrants in the United States. Various court judgements instead deemed Indians to be \"White\" or \"not White\" for the purposes of law. In 1970, in the most recent assignment, the U.S. Census Bureau designated Asian Indians as White. Since 1980, while keeping the validity of its earlier designation (White), the U.S. Census Bureau further allowed Indian Americans to self-report their ethnicity, owing to the immense diversity of the Indian subcontinent, which is home to more than 2000 different ethnic groups and all the racial groups known to mankind. Only the continent of Africa exceeds the linguistic, genetic and cultural diversity of the nation of India. The decision to let Indian Americans self-identify was made both in light of the aforementioned diversity in India, which has all the different racial groups represented in its diverse population, in addition to accommodate the fact that in recent years, increasingly diverse racial and ethnic groups of Indians and South Asians have immigrated to the United States, including from the North-West of the Indian subcontinent, where Caucasian ethnic groups are found.\n\nThe earliest Indian immigrants into the United States were called \"Hindoos\" even though the majority of them were Sikhs. Court clerks classified these early immigrants from the Punjab region as being \"white\", \"brown\" or \"black\" based on their skin color for the purpose of marriage licenses. In addition to being racialized by their color, they were also racialized as being \"foreigners\". The perception of Indian Americans as foreigners, on the other hand, often helped provide for better treatment, especially in states where de jure segregation was in place. Regardless of their skin color, as \"foreign internationals,\" Indians most often used 'White-Only' facilities, a privilege which they would not have been granted otherwise. As opposed to being seen as \"negro,\" or \"brown,\" they were seen as outside of the traditional American racial spectrum, and consequently freed from some of the encumbrances that system entailed.\n\nThroughout much of the 20th century, U.S. courts classified Indians as both \"White\" and \"non-White\". Each ruling was for individuals from different ethnic and racial groups of the subcontinent, reflecting the variability in the resulting decisions. In 1909, Bhicaji Balsara became the first Indian to gain U.S. citizenship, as a Parsi he was ruled to be \"the purest of Aryan type\" and \"as distinct from Hindus as are the English who dwell in India”. Almost thirty years later, the same Circuit Court to accept Balsara ruled that Rustom Dadabhoy Wadia, another Parsi also from Bombay was not white and thefore not eligible to receive U.S. citizenship. In 1923, the Supreme Court decided in \"United States v. Bhagat Singh Thind\" that while Indians were Caucasians and that anthropologists considered them to be of the same race as \"White\" Americans, people of Indian descent were not \"White\" men, and thus not eligible to citizenship. The court conceded that, while Thind was a high caste Hindu born in the northern Punjab region and classified by certain scientific authorities as of the Aryan race, he was not \"White\" since the word Aryan \"has to do with linguistic and not necessarily with physical characteristics\" and since \"the average man knows perfectly well that there are unmistakable and profound differences\" between Indians and white Americans. The court also clarified that the decision did not reflect or imply anything related to racial superiority or inferiority, but merely an observable difference. At the time, this decision retroactively stripped Indians of citizenship and land rights. The ruling also placated the Asiatic Exclusion League demands, spurned by growing outrage at the Turban Tide / Hindoo Invasion (sic) alongside the pre-existing outrage at the Yellow Peril. As they became classified as non-whites, Indian Americans were banned by anti-miscegenation laws from marrying white Americans in the states of Arizona, Virginia, South Carolina and Georgia.\n\nIn 1935, Thind relied on his status as a veteran of the United States military during World War I to petition for naturalization through the State of New York under the Nye-Lea Act, which made World War I veterans eligible for naturalization regardless of race. The government objected his latest petition, but Thind was finally granted American citizenship; Yet the Government attempted to revoke it after nearly two decades from his first petition for naturalization.\n\nIn 1946, Congress, beginning to recognize that India would soon be independent, passed a new law that allowed Indians to become citizens and also established an immigration quota for the same.\n\nThe U.S. Census Bureau has changed over the years its own classification of Indians. In the 1930 and 1940 censuses, \"Hindu\" was listed as a racial category. In 1970, the U.S Census Bureau designated Indian Americans as \"White\". During the 1970s, Indian Americans debated if they should \"give up the emotional and psychological advantages of being considered 'Caucasian'\" to try to \"seek or accept minority status\". Indian American groups, through their own petitioning, successfully changed their racial classification from White to Asian in the 1970s to have themselves included in state and federal Asian racial categories to benefit from affirmative action. Specifically, Indian Americans had their official race changed from White to Asian in 1977 \"through Statistical Directive 15 of the Office of Management and Budget\", causing Indian Americans to be listed as Asian in the 1980 US Census. Without the action of these Indian American groups, the government would have continued to classify Indian Americans as being White. Since 1980, owing to the diverse nature of South Asians, Indians and other South Asians have been classified according to self-reporting, and have the liberty to identify with the racial and ethnic group that they belong to, with an increasing number identifying as \"White\", driven by increasing immigration from the North-West of the Indian subcontinent.\n\nSince 1980, owing to the diverse nature of South Asians, Indians and other South Asians have been classified according to self-reporting. In the 1990 US Census, 65% of second generation South Asian Americans identified themselves using a South Asian term, 25% identified themselves as White and 5% identified themselves as Black. In recent years, an increasing number of Indians are identified as \"White\" due to increasing immigration from the North-West of the Indian subcontinent, which is home to Caucasian ethnic groups within the country. Nikki Haley, the Indian American governor of South Carolina, whose parents are from Punjab in North-West India, identified as White on her voter registration card in 2001.\n\nBoth South Asian Americans and other types of Asian Americans mutually feel that there exists \"profound racial difference\" between themselves and the other group. Furthermore, \"Working-class or state school-educated second generation Indian Americans do not see a natural alliance or unity with other Asian American groups.\"\n\nThe 1990 U.S. Census classified write-in responses of \"Aryan\" as white even though write-in responses of \"Indo-Aryan\" were counted as Asian, and the 1990 US Census classified write-in responses of \"Parsi\" under Iranian American, who are classified as White along with Arab Americans and other Middle Eastern Americans.\n\nSome Indian Americans who were unfamiliar with the ethnonymic conventions used in the United States, mistakenly indicated that they were \"American Indian\" as their race in the 1990 US Census, because they were unaware that this term is used in the United States to refer to Native Americans.\n\nThe Asian American Institute proposed that the 2000 US Census make a new \"Middle Easterner\" racial category and the Punjabi from Pakistan wanted Pakistani Americans to be included in it.\n\n"}
{"id": "45169466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45169466", "title": "Robert Hersh", "text": "Robert Hersh\n\nRobert \"Bob\" Hersh (born February 12, 1940) is a retired American lawyer. He was also the Senior Vice President for the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), the world governing body for the Athletics, collection of sports known in the United States as including track and field, cross country, racewalking and road running. He was a board member of USA Track & Field (USATF), the national governing body for the sport.\n\nHe has held numerous high ranking positions with both organizations that place him at the forefront of the sport. He started with the IAAF on the Technical Committee and as Chairman of the Competition Working Group in 1984. In 1999 he was elevated to the Council and in 2011 was elected Senior Vice President over more recognized retired athletes Sebastian Coe and Sergey Bubka, the two favorites to succeed IAAF President Lamine Diack at the next election in 2015.\n\nWith USATF, he has been a board member since before the organization took on its current name, joining The Athletics Congress board in 1980. He formerly served as USATF's General Counsel, and he was formerly the chairman of the USATF Rules committee and the Track and Field Records sub-committee. He is also a member of the Association of Track and Field Statisticians.\n\nWith his deep knowledge of the sport, Hersh has been the English language stadium announcer at many high-profile meets including the 1984 Summer Olympics through the 1996 Summer Olympics and also the 2004 and 2008 Summer Olympics, the IAAF World Championships in Athletics from 1991 to 2007, the IAAF World Cup in 1994, 1998 and 2006, the IAAF World Indoor Championships in Athletics in 1987, 1999 and 2008, and the IAAF World Junior Championships in Athletics in 1994 and 1998. He was the announcer for the 1988 Olympic Trials when Florence Griffith Joyner set the world record.\n\nHe is a graduate of Columbia University, where he was manager of the track and field team and Harvard Law School.\n\nOn October 4, 2018, USA Track & Field announced that Hersh was elected into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame.\n\nHersh's name became the center of controversy in 2014 when the delegates to the USATF National Convention voted overwhelmingly (392 to 70) to retain Hersh as the American representative to the IAAF Council, only to have the Board of Directors reverse that decision in their meeting as the delegates were on their way home, voting 11-1 to select USATF President Stephanie Hightower to replace Hersh. Athlete Lauren Fleshman said Hightower should step aside, while David Torrence said \"It doesn't make sense.\" Torrence later switched his affiliation to running for Peru before his untimely death in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "33212614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33212614", "title": "Statue of Thomas Munro", "text": "Statue of Thomas Munro\n\nThe statue of Thomas Munro is an equestrian statue of Thomas Munro, 1st Baronet, Scottish army commander and Governor of Madras from 1820 to 1827, located in the city of Chennai, India. The bronze statue sculpted by Francis Chantrey in the United Kingdom in 1834 and shipped to Madras in 1839, is one of the popular landmarks in Chennai. The absence of stirrups is one of the peculiarities of the statue and for this reason, it is also referred to as \"The Stirrupless Majesty\".\n\nThomas Munro was one of the most popular British administrators in South India. Born in Glasgow in 1761, Munro arrived in India as a soldier in 1789 and fought with distinction in the Anglo-Mysore Wars. At the end of the war, he served as a settlement officer in Canara and later, Bellary. He also fought in the Pindari War (1817). In 1820, Munro was appointed Governor of Madras and served till his death from cholera in 1827. Munro is credited with having introduced the Ryotwari System in South India and drafting an education policy for the Madras Presidency. He also supported a larger share for natives in the administration of India. Munro is the subject of a number of folk tales and ballads and is even worshipped by some.\n\nMunro's term as Governor of Madras came to an end in 1826. As there was a delay in appointing a new Governor, Munro decided to visit the Ceded Districts of the Madras Presidency, where he had served as a settlement officer in the early 19th century, in the meantime. As he was riding through the hills of Cuddapah District along with a mixed retinue of Europeans and Indians, Munro observed a golden, thread-like glow across two hills. He remarked\n\nHis followers were perplexed as the garland was not visible to anyone. At length, an old Indian in the retinue reportedly replied, with sorrow:\n\nAfter spending a few days at Ananthapur, Thomas Munro and his party reached Gooty on 4 July 1827. At Gooty, some of his men were afflicted with cholera. Two days later, at Pattikonda, Munro caught cholera from his men and had to be nursed. His condition deteriorated in the evening and he died at half-past-nine on 6 July 1827.\n\nMunro was buried at a graveyard in Gooty. In April 1831, his remains were transported to Madras and interred in the St. Mary's Church, Fort St. George.\n\nWhen the news of Munro's death reached Madras, it was mourned by all classes of people in the city. The government issued a Gazette Extraordinary on 9 July 1827 with the message:\n\nA public meeting was soon held in his memory in Madras city in which was made a proposal to erect a statue to Munro through public subscription. The Madras government opened a memorial for Munro in the town of Pattikonda where he had died. A choultry called \"Munro Choultry\" was erected in Gooty in his honour.\n\nA total of nine thousand pounds (£8000, according to some sources) were collected through public subscription and the British sculptor Francis Chantrey was commissioned to make the statue. Chantrey completed the statue in 1834 - one of the three equestrian statues sculpted by him. According to a popular belief, the Duke of Wellington, on seeing the completed statue, had exclaimed\n\nThe statue, weighing six tonnes, was shipped to India in three parts and erected at The Island, Chennai in 1839 atop a granite plinth made by Ostheider & Co of Calcutta. The statue was ceremonially opened on 23 October 1839.\n\nThe statue depicts Thomas Munro riding a horse. In doing so, Chantrey had opted to follow, for commemorative purposes, the prevalent Western practice of portraying authority. It is believed that Chantrey might have modelled the statue upon his own earlier work of George IV at Trafalgar Square, London. This might have been intended to elevate Munro above the Indians whose cause he championed. Chantrey was, initially, caught in a dilemma over the choice of steed. While some of his friends and visitors suggested a classic horse, some suggested an Arabian, others a war horse. Eventually, Chantrey chose an Arab, similar to the one he had sculpted for his statue of George IV. One particular biography of Francis Chantrey considered the sculpture of Thomas Munro to be the finest among Chantrey's works and the horse, his worst ever.\n\nThe combined height of the horse and the rider is more than 15 feet. The horse gazes calmly while Munro strikes a thoughtful pose, both still, yet ready to lunge forward into motion.\n\nThe peculiarity of the statue is the absence of a saddle as well as the stirrups. While some feel that the omission is due to an oversight on the part of the sculptor, others feel that the saddle and the stirrups might have been deliberately excluded keeping in mind Munro's penchant for bareback riding. Due to the absence of stirrups, the statue is also occasionally referred to as \"The Stirrupless Majesty\".\n\nCaptain Hervey has been credited with popularizing an anecdote connected with Munro's statue\n\nDuring the World Classical Tamil Conference held in Coimbatore in 2010, there were demands to remove the statue of Thomas Munro, evoking strong protests from conservationists. Though the government had arrived at a decision to remove the statue, it has not yet been implemented.\n"}
{"id": "53951631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53951631", "title": "Thanda", "text": "Thanda\n\nA Thanda is a clustered human settlement or community of Lambadies or Banjaras, It is equal to a hamlet but smaller than a village, with a population of a few hundred. They are often located in rural areas (tribal areas) with jubdas (huts) as shelter.\n\nIn the 1990s Thandas were normally temporary places of living because Lambadi people were transients. However, the people are now settling permanently and have fixed dwellings. Further, the dwellings of a Thandas are fairly close to one another, not scattered broadly over the landscape, as a dispersed settlement.\n"}
{"id": "418183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418183", "title": "The Malay Dilemma", "text": "The Malay Dilemma\n\nThe Malay Dilemma is a book written by Mahathir bin Mohamad in 1970, 11 years before he became Malaysia's 4th Prime Minister.\n\nAt the time of publication, Mahathir had just lost his parliamentary seat, been expelled from the ruling party UMNO and Malaysia had recently been rocked by the racial riots later known as the 13 May Incident. The book analyses Malaysian history and politics in terms of racism, and posits the following basic positions:\n\n\nThe dilemma thus, was whether Malays should accept this governmental aid—and Mahathir's position was that they should.\n\nProne to sweeping statements about other races, such as describing Jews as \"hook-nosed\", the book entrenched Mahathir's image as a Malay \"ultra\" (chauvinist). However, Mahathir also dissects the multiple failings of his own race, and the book was intended as a solution leading \"away\" from violence towards a harmonious, integrated Malaysia (albeit one where political and economic power is firmly concentrated in the hands of the Malays).\n\nMahathir was readmitted to UMNO in 1972 and became the Prime Minister in 1981, and in time most of the policies suggested in the book were indeed adopted by the Malaysian government, most notably in the Malaysian New Economic Policy. The dilemma was revisited in 2000 to 2002 by Mahathir and his successor Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, who now argued that Malays were well on the way to catching up, and that they should now be weaned away from the \"crutches\" that had allowed them to compete.\n\nIn the preface of the book's first edition, its British publisher casts doubt on the accuracy of Mahathir's assumptions and facts. Mahathir has been criticised for the lack of documentary evidence to buttress his many arguments and conclusions. Bakri Musa states that his assertions and assumptions were based on his personal observations and experiences, with no empirical data to support them.\n"}
{"id": "406811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406811", "title": "Udmurt people", "text": "Udmurt people\n\nThe Udmurts (, \"Udmurt’jos\") are a people who speak the Udmurt language. In the course of history, Russian-speakers have referred to them as ' (), Otyaks, Wotyaks or Votyaks (the most-known name). Tatar-speakers call the Udmurts '.\n\nThe name \"Udmurt\" comes from *\"odo-mort\" 'meadow people,' where the first part represents the Permic root *\"od\"(\"o\") 'meadow, glade, turf, greenery', and the second part \"murt\" means 'person' (cf. Komi \"mort\", Mari \"mari\"), probably an early borrowing from an Iranian language (such as Scythian): *\"mertä\" or *\"martiya\" 'person, man' (cf. Urdu/Persian \"mard\"), which is thought to have been borrowed from the Indo-Aryan term *\"maryá-\" 'man', literally 'mortal, one who is bound to die' (< PIE *\"\" 'to die'), compare Old Indic \"márya\" ‘young warrior’ and Old Indic \"marut\" ‘chariot warrior’, both connected specifically with horses and chariots. This is supported by a document dated 1557, in which the Udmurts are referred to as \"lugovye lyudi\" 'meadow people', alongside the traditional Russian name \"otyaki\". \n\nOn the other hand, in the Russian tradition, the name 'meadow people' refers to the inhabitants of the left bank of river in general. Recently, the most relevant is the version of V. V. Napolskikh and S. K. Belykh. They suppose that ethnonym was borrowed from the Iranian entirely: *\"anta-marta\" 'resident of outskirts, border zone' (cf. \"Antes\") → Proto-Permic *\"odə-mort\" → Udmurt \"udmurt\".\n\nMost Udmurt people live in Udmurtia. Small groups live in the neighboring areas of Kirov Oblast and Perm Krai of Russia, Bashkortostan, Tatarstan, and Mari El.\n\nThe Udmurt population is shrinking; the Russian Census reported 552,299 in 2010, down from the 2002 Russian census figure of 637,000, in turn down from 746,562 in 1989.\n\nThe Udmurt language belongs to the Uralic family; the Udmurts are therefore considered to be a branch of the Finno-Ugric peoples.\n\nThe Udmurts have a national epic called \"Dorvyzhy\". Their national musical instruments include the \"krez\" zither (similar to the Russian \"gusli\") and a pipe-like wind instrument called the \"chipchirghan\".\n\nA chapter in the French \"Description de toutes les nations de l'empire de Russie\" from 1776 is devoted to the description of the Wotyak people.\nJames George Frazer also mentions a rite performed by the people in his book \"The Golden Bough\".\n\nMany Udmurt people have red hair, and a festival to celebrate the red-haired people is held annually in Izhevsk since 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25681674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25681674", "title": "Wakashū", "text": "Wakashū\n\nWakashū (Japanese: , \"young person\", although never used for girls) is a historical Japanese term indicating an adolescent boy; more specifically, a boy between the ages at which his head was partially shaven (\"maegami\") (about 5–10 years of age), at which point a boy exited early childhood and could begin formal education, apprenticeship, or employment outside the home, and the \"genpuku\" coming of age ceremony (mid-teens through early 20s), which marked the transition to adulthood. During this period, the \"wakashū\" wore a distinctive hairstyle, with a small shaved portion at the crown of the head and long forelocks at front and sides, and typically wore kimono with open sleeves (\"wakiake\"); boys from wealthier families could wear \"furisode\". After the coming of age ceremony, the forelocks were shaved off, giving the adult male hairstyle (\"chonmage\"), and the boy assumed the adult male style of kimono with rounded sleeves. Although any person would be clearly classified as a child, \"wakashū\" or adult, the timing of both boundaries of the \"wakashū\" period were relatively flexible, giving families and patrons the ability to accommodate the development and circumstances of the individual boy.\n\nThe concept of \"wakashū\" contained several partially overlapping elements: an age category between childhood and adulthood; the social role of a pre-adult or adolescent boy, usually conceived of as a subordinate (student, apprentice or protégé); and the idea of the \"beautiful youth\", a suitable target for homosexual desire and the subject of \"wakashūdo\", \"the way of youths\". As boys were considered eligible for homosexual liaisons only when they were \"wakashū\", their patrons occasionally delayed their coming of age ceremony beyond socially acceptable limits, leading to legal efforts in 1685 to require all \"wakashū\" to undergo their coming of age ceremony by age 25.\n\nIn the Meiji era, the term became obsolete; the first meanings were replaced by the new term \"shōnen\", and the last by the related construction \"bishōnen\" (\"beautiful boy\").\nIn kabuki theatre \"wakashū\" (or \"wakashū-gata\") referred to actors specializing in adolescent male roles (and who were usually \"wakashū\" themselves). \"Wakashū\" often also performed as \"onnagata\" (\"woman-role\"; female impersonators).\n\n"}
{"id": "677501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=677501", "title": "Wari’", "text": "Wari’\n\nThe Wari', also known as the Pakaa Nova, are an indigenous people of Brazil, living in seven villages in the Amazon rainforest in the state of Rondônia. Their first contact with European settlers was on the shores of the Pakaa Nova River, a tributary of the Mamoré River. Many of them live within the Sagarana Indigenous Territory.\n\nEuropeans at one time used the name \"Pakaa Nova\" to refer to the Wari', because they encountered the indigenous people near there. The people prefer to be referred to as \"Wari'\", their term in their language meaning \"we, people.\" They are also known as the Jaru, Oro Wari, Pacaas-Novos, Pacahanovo, Pakaanova, Pakaanovas, Uari, and Uomo.\n\nThe Wari' speak the Pakaásnovos language, which belongs to the Txapakura, or Chapacura-Wanham language family. Parts of the Bible were translated into their language from 1975 to 1984.\n\nAlong with the Torá, the Moré (or Itenes) and the Oro Win, the Wari' are the last of the Txapakura language linguistic group. Other groups were exterminated by Europeans or neo-Brazilians. \n\nUp until the 19th century, the Wari' were present in the Amazon's Southeast, namely the basin of the Lage river (a right-bank-tributary river of the Mamoré River), the Ouro Preto river, the Gruta and Santo André creeks, the Negro river (all tributaries of the lower and middle courses of the right bank of the Pakaa Nova river), and the Ribeirão and Novo rivers (tributaries of the left bank of the Pakaa Nova river).\n\nIn the early 20th century, continuous incursions by neo-Brazilians in search of rubber trees forced the Wari' to relocate to the less accessible headwaters of the Mamoré River. They were confined in that area until the pacification. Today, they live in seven settlements located in the state of Rondônia, Brazil.\n\nThe tribe is divided into subgroups, but no word exists to define an individual that belongs to a different group, and the term usually applied is \"tatirim\" (stranger). A person from the same subgroup is referred to as \"win ma\" (land fellow).\n\nToday, the Wari' subgroups are:\n\nSome individuals still identify themselves with two other subgroups that no longer exist, the OroJowin, or the OroKaoOroWaji. Oro is a collectivizing particle that can be translated as \"people\" or \"group\".\n\nPresent relations between subgroups are still influenced by the dynamics that existed before the pacification (see below). Each subgroup is intimately connected to a territory, a set of areas that are all identified by name, with each inhabited by a \"local group\".\n\nThe frontiers between territories are fluid. An area associated with one subgroup can be incorporated into the territory of another subgroup if it is occupied by a local group that belongs to another subgroup. That is made possible by the semi-nomadic characteristic of the people (see below).\n\nMembership to any given subgroup is not defined by fixed rules. Children may be considered members of either parent's subgroup, or of the subgroup associated with the territory in which they were born. Cultural or subgroup identities are part of one's birthright, but socially constructed during a lifetime through relations with one's relatives and neighbors. The Wari' recognize that individuals have multiple identities based on their specific relations and experiences.\n\nEvery subgroup is organized around a set of brothers, each of whom is often married to women who are sisters. Polygyny, especially sororal polygyny, is the basis of Wari' family structure. Any village is made up of nuclear families and a separate house, called \"the men's house.\" It serves as a dormitory for single adolescents and as a meeting place for adult men. A couple usually varies their place of residence, shifting between the woman's parents' and the man's parents', although no specific rule determines when the shift is made. \n\nThe Wari' are semi-nomadic, moving their villages at least once every five years. They stay away from floodplains but closer to the shores of small perennial rivers.\n\nA maize swidden, providing the staple crop, is developed around the village. Finding the ideal earth for corn growing (black earth or terra preta) plays a key role in determining where to set up a village. The importance of agricultural land is also reflected in the language, since a person from the same subgroup is called a \"land fellow\".\n\nThe Wari formerly practiced endocannibalism, specifically mortuary cannibalism. This was done as a form of utmost respect to those who had died.\n\nRight after death, the closest relatives would hug and embrace the deceased person. The body would be left for about three days, although there was no set span, and depended largely on how soon family members in other settlements could get to the funeral. By this time, the body typically had begun to decompose in the heat and humidity of the Amazon, sometimes reaching the stage where the body became bloated and discolored. When all relatives within reasonable distance had arrived, they respectfully prepared the body. \n\nMortuary preparation involved ritual wailing and other ceremonies, building a fire, removing the visceral organs, and finally roasting the body. The decedent's closest kin would not consume the body, but they urged the attendant relatives to eat. Consumption of the flesh would assuage the family's grief, as it meant the soul of the person was being kept in the living body of relatives, rather than being abandoned to wander the forest alone. The practice was considered an act of compassion and affinal love, as much as a gesture of grief. The relatives were encouraged to eat what they could, but this sometimes amounted to little more than small tokens of the spoiled meat. Even this consumption often caused the mourners great gastric distress. The heart and liver were eaten, but much of the body and hair was burned.\n\nToday, Wari' do not practice any form of cannibalism. They bury their dead after two or three days of mourning.\n\nCurrently, the Wari' are peaceful, but before the pacification they warred with neighboring tribes. Their most notable victories occurred over the Karipuna, a Tupi ethnicity, and the Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau. With contact with the Brazilian government in the 20th century, the focus of their warfare shifted and they lost contact with the old \"wijam\" (enemy).\n\nThe Wari' consider enemies as \"former Wari'\" who have distanced themselves to the point of severing cultural exchanges. In spite of that, a Wari' warrior did not distinguish between an enemy and an animal, thus felt no need to be merciful or gracious to an enemy any more than he would an animal. \n\nOnce the battles were over, the Wari' warriors would bring home the bodies of the fallen enemies whenever possible. Those bodies would be served to the women and younger men who had stayed home, to strengthen the group. \n\nThe battle warriors retreated to the men's house, where they stayed in quarantine. During this period they moved around as little as possible, staying in their hammocks for most of the day and drinking only chicha. The purpose was to \"keep the enemy's blood within the warrior's body\", thus giving him strength. Sex was prohibited, as they thought the blood of the enemy would \"turn into semen\" and thus allow the enemy's strength to be passed on to the tribesmen's children. The warrior was not allowed to partake of the fallen enemies, because it was believed that he had kept the enemy's blood within himself, and such an act would be self-cannibalism, resulting in his death. Children were prohibited from eating dead enemies. The quarantine ended when the women refused to continue preparing the chicha.\n\n\n"}
