{"id": "31051247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31051247", "title": "Abbey of the Holy Ghost", "text": "Abbey of the Holy Ghost\n\nThe Abbey of the Holy Ghost is a medieval prose allegory, ca. 1350. The text is preserved in at least 26 manuscripts, often followed by the \"Charter of the Abbey of the Holy Ghost\". The text advises lay women on how to live a contemplative life outside a monastery; the companion \"Charter\" speaks of the fall and salvation.\n"}
{"id": "2851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851", "title": "Abraham Joshua Heschel", "text": "Abraham Joshua Heschel\n\nAbraham Joshua Heschel (January 11, 1907 – December 23, 1972) was a Polish-born American rabbi and one of the leading Jewish theologians and Jewish philosophers of the 20th century. Heschel, a professor of Jewish mysticism at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, authored a number of widely read books on Jewish philosophy and was active in the civil rights movement.\n\nAbraham Joshua Heschel was born in 1907 as the youngest of six children of Moshe Mordechai and Reizel Perlow. He was descended from preeminent European rabbis on both sides of his family. His paternal great-great-grandfather and namesake was Rebbe Avraham Yehoshua Heshel of Apt in present-day Poland. His mother was also a descendant of Avraham Yehoshua Heshel and other Hasidic dynasties. His siblings were Sarah, Dvora Miriam, Esther Sima, Gittel, and Jacob. Their father Moshe died of influenza in 1916 when Abraham was nine.\n\nAfter a traditional yeshiva education and studying for Orthodox rabbinical ordination semicha, Heschel pursued his doctorate at the University of Berlin and a liberal rabbinic ordination at the Hochschule für die Wissenschaft des Judentums. There he studied under some of the finest Jewish educators of the time: Chanoch Albeck, Ismar Elbogen, Julius Guttmann, and Leo Baeck. His mentor in Berlin was David Koigen. Heschel later taught Talmud at the Hochschule. He joined a Yiddish poetry group, Jung Vilna, and in 1933, published a volume of Yiddish poems, \"Der Shem Hamefoyrosh: Mentsch,\" dedicated to his father.\n\nIn late October 1938, when Heschel was living in a rented room in the home of a Jewish family in Frankfurt, he was arrested by the Gestapo and deported to Poland. He spent ten months lecturing on Jewish philosophy and Torah at Warsaw's Institute for Jewish Studies. Six weeks before the German invasion of Poland, Heschel left Warsaw for London with the help of Julian Morgenstern, president of Hebrew Union College, who had been working to obtain visas for Jewish scholars in Europe.\n\nHeschel's sister Esther was killed in a German bombing. His mother was murdered by the Nazis, and two other sisters, Gittel and Devorah, died in Nazi concentration camps. He never returned to Germany, Austria or Poland. He once wrote, \"If I should go to Poland or Germany, every stone, every tree would remind me of contempt, hatred, murder, of children killed, of mothers burned alive, of human beings asphyxiated.\"\n\nHeschel arrived in New York City in March 1940. He served on the faculty of Hebrew Union College (HUC), the main seminary of Reform Judaism, in Cincinnati for five years. In 1946, he took a position at the Jewish Theological Seminary of America (JTS) in New York City, the main seminary of Conservative Judaism. He served as professor of Jewish ethics and Mysticism until his death in 1972.\n\nHeschel married Sylvia Straus, a concert pianist, on December 10, 1946, in Los Angeles. Their daughter, Susannah Heschel, became a Jewish scholar in her own right. Heschel's papers are held in the Rubenstein Rare Book & Manuscript Library at Duke University.\n\nHeschel explicated many facets of Jewish thought, including studies on medieval Jewish philosophy, Kabbalah, and Hasidic philosophy. According to some scholars, he was more interested in spirituality than in critical text study; the latter was a specialty of many scholars at JTS. He was not given a graduate assistant for many years and was relegated to teach mainly in the education school or Rabbinical school, not in the academic graduate program. Heschel became friendly with his colleague Mordecai Kaplan. Though they differed in their approach to Judaism, they had a very cordial relationship and visited each other's homes from time to time.\n\nHeschel believed the teachings of the Hebrew prophets were a clarion call for social action in the United States and worked for African Americans' civil rights and against the Vietnam War.\n\nHe also specifically criticized what he called \"pan-halakhism\", or an exclusive focus upon religiously compatible behavior to the neglect of the non-legalistic dimension of rabbinic tradition.\n\nHeschel is a widely read Jewish theologian whose most influential works include \"Man Is Not Alone\", \"God in Search of Man\", \"The Sabbath,\" and \"The Prophets\". At the Vatican Council II, as representative of American Jews, Heschel persuaded the Catholic Church to eliminate or modify passages in its liturgy that demeaned the Jews, or referred to an expected conversion to Christianity. His theological works argued that religious experience is a fundamentally human impulse, not just a Jewish one. He believed that no religious community could claim a monopoly on religious truth.\n\n\"The Sabbath: Its Meaning for Modern Man\" is a work on the nature and celebration of Shabbat, the Jewish Sabbath. This work is rooted in the thesis that Judaism is a religion of time, not space, and that the Sabbath symbolizes the sanctification of time.\n\n\"Man Is Not Alone: A Philosophy of Religion\" offers Heschel's views on how people can comprehend God. Judaism views God as being radically different from humans, so Heschel explores the ways that Judaism teaches that a person may have an encounter with the ineffable. A recurring theme in this work is the radical amazement that people feel when experiencing the presence of the Divine. Heschel then goes on to explore the problems of doubts and faith; what Judaism means by teaching that God is one; the essence of humanity and the problem of human needs; the definition of religion in general and of Judaism in particular; and human yearning for spirituality. He offers his views as to Judaism being a pattern for life.\n\n\"God in Search of Man: A Philosophy of Judaism\" is a companion volume to \"Man Is Not Alone\". In this book Heschel discusses the nature of religious thought, how thought becomes faith, and how faith creates responses in the believer. He discusses ways that people can seek God's presence, and the radical amazement that we receive in return. He offers a criticism of nature worship; a study of humanity's metaphysical loneliness, and his view that we can consider God to be in search of humanity. The first section concludes with a study of Jews as a chosen people. Section two deals with the idea of revelation, and what it means for one to be a prophet. This section gives us his idea of revelation as an event, as opposed to a process. This relates to Israel's commitment to God. Section three discusses his views of how a Jew should understand the nature of Judaism as a religion. He discusses and rejects the idea that mere faith (without law) alone is enough, but then cautions against rabbis he sees as adding too many restrictions to Jewish law. He discusses the need to correlate ritual observance with spirituality and love, the importance of Kavanah (intention) when performing mitzvot. He engages in a discussion of religious behaviorism—when people strive for external compliance with the law, yet disregard the importance of inner devotion.\n\nThis work started out as his PhD thesis in German, which he later expanded and translated into English. Originally published in a two-volume edition, this work studies the books of the Hebrew prophets. It covers their lives and the historical context that their missions were set in, summarizes their work, and discusses their psychological state. In it Heschel puts forward what would become a central idea in his theology: that the prophetic (and, ultimately, Jewish) view of God is best understood not as anthropomorphic (that God takes human form) but rather as anthropopathic—that God has human feelings.\n\nIn his book \"The Prophets\", Abraham Joshua Heschel describes the unique aspect of the Jewish prophets as compared to other similar figures. Whereas other nations have soothsayers and diviners who attempt to discover the will of their gods, according to Heschel the Hebrew prophets are characterized by their experience of what he calls theotropism—God turning towards humanity. Heschel argues for the view of Hebrew prophets as receivers of the \"Divine Pathos\", of the wrath and sorrow of God over his nation that has forsaken him. In this view, prophets do not speak for God so much as they remind their audience of God's voice for the voiceless, the poor and oppressed.\n\nHe writes:\nMany consider Heschel's \"Torah min HaShamayim BeAspaklariya shel HaDorot\", (\"Torah from Heaven in the mirror of the generations\") to be his masterwork. The three volumes of this work are a study of classical rabbinic theology and aggadah, as opposed to halakha (Jewish law.) It explores the views of the rabbis in the Mishnah, Talmud and Midrash about the nature of Torah, the revelation of God to mankind, prophecy, and the ways that Jews have used scriptural exegesis to expand and understand these core Jewish texts. In this work, Heschel views the 2nd century sages Rabbi Akiva and Ishmael ben Elisha as paradigms for the two dominant world-views in Jewish theology\n\nTwo Hebrew volumes were published during his lifetime by Soncino Press, and the third Hebrew volume was published posthumously by JTS Press in the 1990s. An English translation of all three volumes, with notes, essays and appendices, was translated and edited by Rabbi Gordon Tucker, entitled \"Heavenly Torah: As Refracted Through the Generations\". In its own right it can be the subject of intense study and analysis, and provides insight into the relationship between God and Man beyond the world of Judaism and for all Monotheism.\n\nHeschel wrote a series of articles, originally in Hebrew, on the existence of prophecy in Judaism after the destruction of the Holy Temple in Jerusalem in 70 CE. These essays were translated into English and published as \"Prophetic Inspiration After the Prophets: Maimonides and Others\" by the American Judaica publisher Ktav.\n\nThe publisher of this book states, \"The standard Jewish view is that prophecy ended with the ancient prophets, somewhere early in the Second Temple era. Heschel demonstrated that this view is not altogether accurate. Belief in the possibility of continued prophetic inspiration, and in its actual occurrence appear throughout much of the medieval period, and even in modern times. Heschel's work on prophetic inspiration in the Middle Ages originally appeared in two long Hebrew articles. In them he concentrated on the idea that prophetic inspiration was possible even in post-Talmudic times, and, indeed, had taken place at various times and in various schools, from the Geonim to Maimonides and beyond.\"\n\nFour schools have been named for Heschel, in the Upper West Side of New York City, Northridge, California, Agoura Hills, California, and Toronto, Ontario, Canada. In 2009, a highway in Missouri was named \"Dr. Abraham Joshua Heschel Highway\" after a Springfield, Missouri area Neo-Nazi group cleaned the stretch of highway as part of an \"Adopt-A-Highway\" plan. Heschel's daughter, Susannah, has objected to the adoption of her father's name in this context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53742353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53742353", "title": "Adaptive type", "text": "Adaptive type\n\nAdaptive type – in evolutionary biology – is any population or taxon which have the potential for a particular or total occupation of given free of underutilized home habitats or position in the general economy of nature. In evolutionary sense, the emergence of new adaptive type is usually a result of adaptive radiation certain groups of organisms in which they arise categories that can effectively exploit temporary, or new conditions of the environment.\n\nSuch evolutive units with its distinctive – morphological and anatomical, physiological and other characteristics, ie. genetic and adjustments (feature) have a predispositiona for a occupation certain home habitats or position in the general nature economy.\n\nSimply, the adaptive type is one group organisms whose general biological properties represent a key to open the entrance to the observed adaptive zone in the observed natural ecological complex.\n\nAdaptive types are spatially and temporally specific. Since the frames of general biological properties these types of substantially genetic are defined between, in effect the emergence of new adaptive types of the corresponding change in population genetic structure and eternal contradiction between the need for optimal adapted well the conditions of living environment, while maintaining genetic variation for survival in a possible new circumstances.\n\nFor example, the specific place in the economy of nature existed millions of years before the appearance of human type. However, just when the process of evolution of primates (order \" Primates\") reached a level that is able to occupy that position, it is open, and then (in leaving world) an unprecedented acceleration increasingly spreading. Culture, in the broadest sense, is a key adaptation of adaptive type type of \"Homo sapiens\" the occupation of existing adaptive zone through work, also in the broadest sense of the term.\n\n"}
{"id": "4746907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4746907", "title": "Buddhist ethics", "text": "Buddhist ethics\n\nBuddhist ethics are traditionally based on what Buddhists view as the enlightened perspective of the Buddha, or other enlightened beings such as Bodhisattvas. The Indian term for ethics or morality used in Buddhism is \"Śīla\" () or \"sīla\" (Pāli). \"Śīla\" in Buddhism is one of three sections of the Noble Eightfold Path, and is a code of conduct that embraces a commitment to harmony and self-restraint with the principal motivation being nonviolence, or freedom from causing harm. It has been variously described as virtue, right conduct, morality, moral discipline and precept.\n\n\"Sīla\" is an internal, aware, and intentional ethical behavior, according to one's commitment to the path of liberation. It is an ethical compass within self and relationships, rather than what is associated with the English word \"morality\" (i.e., obedience, a sense of obligation, and external constraint).\n\n\"Sīla\" is one of the three practices foundational to Buddhism and the non-sectarian Vipassana movement — \"sīla,\" \"samādhi,\" and \"paññā\" as well as the Theravadin foundations of \"sīla,\" \"Dāna,\" and \"Bhavana.\" It is also the second \"pāramitā\". Sīla is also wholehearted commitment to what is wholesome. Two aspects of sīla are essential to the training: right \"performance\" (caritta), and right \"avoidance\" (varitta). Honoring the precepts of \"sīla\" is considered a \"great gift\" (mahadana) to others, because it creates an atmosphere of trust, respect, and security. It means the practitioner poses no threat to another person's life, property, family, rights, or well-being.\n\nMoral instructions are included in Buddhist scriptures or handed down through tradition. Most scholars of Buddhist ethics thus rely on the examination of Buddhist scriptures, and the use of anthropological evidence from traditional Buddhist societies, to justify claims about the nature of Buddhist ethics.\n\nThe source for the ethics of Buddhists around the world are the Three Jewels of the Buddha, Dharma and Sangha. The Buddha is seen as the discoverer of liberating knowledge and hence the foremost teacher. The Dharma is both the teachings of the Buddha's path and the truths of these teachings. The Sangha is the community of noble ones (ariya), who practice the Dhamma and have attained some knowledge and can thus provide guidance and preserve the teachings. Having proper understanding of the teachings is vital for proper ethical conduct. The Buddha taught that right view was a necessary prerequisite for right conduct.\n\nA central foundation for Buddhist morality is the law of karma and rebirth. The Buddha is recorded to have stated that right view consisted in believing that (among other things): \"'there is fruit and ripening of deeds well done or ill done': what one does matters and has an effect on one’s future; 'there is this world, there is a world beyond': this world is not unreal, and one goes on to another world after death\" (MN 117, Maha-cattarisaka Sutta).\n\nKarma is a word which literally means \"action\" and is seen as a natural law of the universe which manifests as cause and effect. In the Buddhist conception, Karma is a certain type of moral action which has moral consequences on the actor. The core of karma is the mental intention, and hence the Buddha stated ‘It is intention (cetana), O monks, that I call karma; having willed one acts through body, speech, or mind’ (AN 6.63). Therefore, accidentally hurting someone is not bad Karma, but having hurtful thoughts is. Buddhist ethics sees these patterns of motives and actions as conditioning future actions and circumstances – the fruit (Phala) of one's present actions, including the condition and place of the actor's future life circumstances (though these can also be influenced by other random factors). One's past actions are said to mold one's consciousness and to leave seeds (Bīja) which later ripen in the next life. The goal of Buddhist practice is generally to break the cycle, though one can also work for rebirth in a better condition through good deeds.\n\nThe root of one's intention is what conditions an action to be good or bad. There are three good roots (non-attachment, benevolence, and understanding) and three negative roots (greed, hatred and delusion). Actions which produce good outcomes are termed \"merit\" (puñña – fruitful, auspicious) and obtaining merit is an important goal of lay Buddhist practice. The early Buddhist texts mention three 'bases for effecting karmic fruitfulness’ (\"puñña-kiriya-vatthus\"): giving (dana), moral virtue (sila) and meditation. One's state of mind while performing good actions is seen as more important than the action itself. The Buddhist Sangha is seen as the most meritorious \"field of merit\". Negative actions accumulate bad karmic results, though one's regret and attempts to make up for it can ameliorate these results.\n\nThe Four Noble Truths express one of the central Buddhist worldview which sees worldly existence as fundamentally unsatisfactory and stressful (Dukkha). Dukkha is seen to arise from craving, and putting an end to craving can lead to liberation (Nirvana). The way to put an end to craving is by following the Noble Eightfold Path taught by the Buddha, which includes the ethical elements of right speech, right action and right livelihood. From the point of view of the Four Noble Truths, an action is seen as ethical if it is conductive to the elimination of Dukkha. Understanding the truth of Dukkha in life allows one to analyze the factors for its arising, that is craving, and allows us to feel compassion and sympathy for others. Comparing oneself with others and then applying the Golden Rule is said to follow from this appreciation of Dukkha. From the Buddhist perspective, an act is also moral if it promotes spiritual development by conforming to the Eightfold Path and leading to Nirvana. In Mahayana Buddhism, an emphasis is made on the liberation of all beings. Therefore, special beings called Bodhisattvas are believed to work tirelessly for the liberation of all and are seen as important figures.\n\nThe Four Noble Truths are \" Dukkha, Samudaya Magga and Nirodha Thitsar.\". In English meaning Dukkha is Suffering, Samudaya is Clinging, Magga is Noble Eightfold Path and Nirodha is Liberation.\n\nThe foundation of Buddhist ethics for laypeople is The Five Precepts which are common to all Buddhist schools. The precepts or \"five moral virtues\" (\"pañca-silani\") are not commands but a set of voluntary commitments or guidelines, to help one live a life in which one is happy, without worries, and able to meditate well. The precepts are supposed to prevent suffering and to weaken the effects of greed, hatred and delusion. They were the basic moral instructions which the Buddha gave to laypeople and monks alike. Breaking one's sīla as pertains to sexual conduct introduces harmfulness towards one's practice or the practice of another person if it involves uncommitted relationship. When one \"goes for refuge\" to the Buddha's teachings one formally takes the five precepts, which are:\n\n\nBuddhists often take the precepts in formal ceremonies with members of the monastic Sangha, though they can also be undertaken as private personal commitments. Keeping each precept is said to develop its opposite positive virtue. Abstaining from killing for example develops kindness and compassion, while abstaining from stealing develops non-attachment. The precepts have been connected with utilitarianist, deontological and virtue approaches to ethics. They have been compared with human rights because of their universal nature, and some scholars argue they can complement the concept of human rights.\n\nUndertaking and upholding the five precepts is based on the principle of non-harming (Pāli and ). The Pali Canon recommends one to compare oneself with others, and on the basis of that, not to hurt others. Compassion and a belief in karmic retributionform the foundation of the precepts.\n\nThe first precept consists of a prohibition of killing, both humans and all animals. Scholars have interpreted Buddhist texts about the precepts as an opposition to and prohibition of capital punishment, suicide, abortion and euthanasia. The second precept prohibits theft. The third precept refers to adultery in all its forms, and has been defined by modern teachers with terms such as \"sexual responsibility\" and \"long-term commitment\". The fourth precept involves falsehood spoken or committed to by action, as well as malicious speech, harsh speech and gossip. The fifth precept prohibits intoxication through alcohol, drugs or other means. Early Buddhist Texts nearly always condemn alcohol, and so do Chinese Buddhist post-canonical texts. Buddhist attitudes toward smoking differ per time and region, but are generally permissive. In modern times, traditional Buddhist countries have seen revival movements to promote the five precepts. As for the West, the precepts play a major role in Buddhist organizations.\n\nThere is also a more strict set of precepts called the eight precepts which are taken at specific religious days or religious retreats. The eight precepts encourage further discipline and are modeled on the monastic code. In the eight precepts, the third precept on sexual misconduct is made more strict and becomes a precept of celibacy. The three additional rules of the Eight Precepts are:\nNovice-monks use the ten precepts while fully ordained Buddhist monks also have a larger set of monastic precepts, called the Prātimokṣa (227 rules for monks in the Theravādin recension). Monks are supposed to be celibate and are also traditionally not allowed to touch money. The rules and code of conduct for monks and nuns is outlined in the Vinaya. The precise content of the scriptures on \"vinaya\" (\"vinayapiṭaka\") differ slightly according to different schools, and different schools or subschools set different standards for the degree of adherence to the \"vinaya\".\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, another common set of moral guidelines are the Bodhisattva vows and the Bodhisattva Precepts or the \"Ten Great Precepts\". The Bodhisattva Precepts which is derived from the Mahayana Brahmajala Sutra include the Five precepts with some other additions such as the precept against slandering the Buddha's teachings. These exist above and beyond the existing monastic code, or lay follower precepts. The Brahmajala Sutra also includes a list of 48 minor precepts which prohibit the eating of meat, storing of weapons, teaching for the sake of profit, abandoning Mahayana teachings and teaching non Mahayana Dharma. These precepts have no parallel in Theravāda Buddhism.\n\nAnother common formulation of Buddhist ethical action in the Early Buddhist Texts is the \"path of the ten good actions\" or \"ten skilled karma paths\" (\"Dasa Kusala Kammapatha\") which are \"in accordance with Dharma\". These are divided into three bodily actions (\"kaya kamma\"), four verbal actions (\"vaci kamma\") and three mental actions (\"mano kamma\") all of which are said to cause \"unskillful qualities to decline while skillful qualities grow\". These ten paths are discussed in suttas such as Majjhima Nikaya MN 41 (\"Sāleyyaka Sutta\"), and MN 114:\n\nBodily actions:\n\n\nVerbal actions:\n\n\nMental actions:\n\n\nYet another common ethical list in the Pali tradition is the \"ten bases of meritorious action\" (\"Dasa Puñña-kiriya Vatthu\"). As noted by Nyanatiloka Thera, some texts (Itivuttaka 60) only mention three of these but later Pali commentaries expanded these to ten, and the list of ten is a popular list in Theravada countries. Ittivuttaka #60 says:“Bhikkhus, there are these three grounds for making merit. What three? The ground for making merit consisting in giving, the ground for making merit consisting in virtue, and the ground for making merit consisting in mind-development. These are the three.One should train in deeds of merit, that yield long-lasting happiness: Generosity, a balanced life, developing a loving mind. By cultivating these three things, deeds yielding happiness, the wise person is reborn in bliss, in an untroubled happy world.”According to Nyanatiloka, Digha Nikaya 30 also mentions several related meritorious behaviors. D.N. 30 mentions various exemplary meritorious actions done by the Buddha such as:\"...good conduct by way of body, speech, giving and sharing, taking precepts, observing the sabbath, paying due respect to mother and father, ascetics and brahmins, honoring the elders in the family, and various other things pertaining to skillful behaviors.\"\"Truth, principle, self-control, and restraint; giving, harmlessness, delighting in non-violence...\"\"giving and helping others, kindly speech, and equal treatment, such action and conduct as brought people together...\"The later expanded listing of ten bases is as follows:\n\n\nFollowing the precepts is not the only dimension of Buddhist morality, there are also several important virtues, motivations and habits which are widely promoted by Buddhist texts and traditions. At the core of these virtues are the three roots of non-attachment (araga), benevolence (advesa), and understanding (amoha).\n\nOne list of virtues which is widely promoted in Buddhism are the Pāramitās (perfections) – Dāna (generosity), Sīla (proper conduct), Nekkhamma (renunciation), Paññā (wisdom), Viriya (energy), Khanti (patience), Sacca (honesty), Adhiṭṭhāna (determination), Mettā (Good-Will), Upekkhā (equanimity).\n\nThe Four divine abidings (Brahmaviharas) are seen as central virtues and intentions in Buddhist ethics, psychology and meditation. The four divine abidings are good will, compassion, empathetic joy, and equanimity. Developing these virtues through meditation and right action promotes happiness, generates good merit and trains the mind for ethical action.\n\nAn important quality which supports right action is Heedfulness (Appamada), a combination of energy/effort (Viriya) and Mindfulness. Mindfulness is an alert presence of mind which allows one to be more aware of what is happening with one's intentional states. Heedfulness is aided by 'clear comprehension' or 'discrimination' (Sampajañña), which gives rise to moral knowledge of what is to be done. Another important supporting quality of Buddhist morality is Trust or Confidence in the teachings of the Buddha and in one's own ability to put them into practice. Wisdom and Understanding are seen as a prerequisite for acting morally. Having an understanding of the true nature of reality is seen as leading to ethical actions. Understanding the truth of not-self for example, allows one to become detached from selfish motivations and therefore allows one to be more altruistic. Having an understanding of the workings of the mind and of the law of karma also makes one less likely to perform an unethical action.\n\nThe Buddha promoted ‘self-respect’ (Hri) and Regard for consequences (Apatrapya), as important virtues. Self-respect is what caused a person to avoid actions which were seen to harm one's integrity and Ottappa is an awareness of the effects of one's actions and sense of embarrassment before others.\n\nGiving (Dāna) is seen as the beginning of virtue in Theravada Buddhism and as the basis for developing further on the path. In Buddhist countries, this is seen in the giving of alms to Buddhist monastics but also extends to generosity in general (towards family, friends, coworkers, guests, animals). Giving is said to make one happy, generate good merit as well as develop non-attachment, therefore it is not just good because it creates good karmic fruits, but it also develops one's spiritual qualities. In Buddhist thought, the cultivation of dana and ethical conduct will themselves refine consciousness to such a level that rebirth in one of the lower hells is unlikely, even if there is no further Buddhist practice. There is nothing improper or un-Buddhist about limiting one's aims to this level of attainment.\n\nAn important value in Buddhist ethics is non-harming or non-violence (ahimsa) to all living creatures from the lowest insect to humans which is associated with the first precept of not killing. The Buddhist practice of this does not extend to the extremes exhibited by Jainism (in Buddhism, unintentional killing is not karmically bad), but from both the Buddhist and Jain perspectives, non-violence suggests an intimate involvement with, and relationship to, all living things.\n\nThe Buddha also emphasized that ‘good friendship (Kalyāṇa-mittatā), good association, good intimacy’ was the whole, not the half of the holy life (SN 45.2). Developing strong friendships with good people on the spiritual path is seen as a key aspect of Buddhism and as a key way to support and grow in one's practice.\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, another important foundation for moral action is the Bodhisattva ideal. Bodhisattvas are beings which have chosen to work towards the salvation of all living beings. In Mahayana Buddhist texts, this path of great compassion is promoted as being superior to that of the Arhat because the Bodhisattva is seen as working for the benefit of all beings. A Bodhisattva is one who arouses a powerful emotion called Bodhicitta (mind of enlightenment) which is a mind which is oriented towards the awakening of oneself and all beings.\n\nThe first precept is the abstaining from the taking of life, and the Buddha clearly stated that the taking of human or animal life would lead to negative karmic consequences and was non conductive to liberation. Right livelihood includes not trading in weapons or in hunting and butchering animals. Various suttas state that one should always have a mind filled with compassion and loving kindness for all beings, this is to be extended to hurtful, evil people as in the case of Angulimala the murderer and to every kind of animal, even pests and vermin (monks are not allowed to kill any animal, for any reason). Buddhist teachings and institutions therefore tend to promote peace and compassion, acting as safe havens during times of conflict. In spite of this, some Buddhists, including monastics such as Japanese warrior monks have historically performed acts of violence. In China, the Shaolin Monastery developed a martial arts tradition to defend themselves from attack.\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, the concept of skillful means (upaya) has in some circumstances been used to excuse the act of killing, if it is being done for compassionate reasons. This form of \"compassionate killing\" is allowed by the \"Upaya-kausalya sutra\" and the \"Maha-Upaya-kausalya sutra\" only when it \"follows from virtuous thought.\" Some texts acknowledge the negative karmic consequences of killing, and yet promote it out of compassion. The \"Bodhisattva-bhumi\", a key Mahayana text, states that if a Bodhisattva sees someone about to kill other Bodhisattvas, they may take it upon themselves to kill this murderer with the thought that:\n\n\"If I take the life of this sentient being, I myself may be reborn as one of the creatures of hell. Better that I be reborn a creature of hell than that this living being, having committed a deed of immediate retribution, should go straight to hell.\"\n\nIf then, the intention is purely to protect others from evil, the act of killing is sometimes seen as meritorious.\n\nThe Buddhist analysis of conflict begins with the 'Three Poisons' of greed, hatred and delusion. Craving and attachment, the cause of suffering, is also the cause of conflict. Buddhist philosopher Shantideva states in his \"Siksasamuccaya\": \"Wherever conflict arises among living creatures, the sense of possession is the cause\". Craving for material resources as well as grasping to political or religious views is seen as a major source of war. One's attachment to self-identity, and identification with tribe, nation state or religion is also another root of human conflict according to Buddhism.\n\nThe Buddha promoted non-violence in various ways, he encouraged his followers not to fight in wars and not to sell or trade weapons. The Buddha stated that in war, both victor and defeated suffer: \"The victor begets enmity. The vanquished dwells in sorrow. The tranquil lives happily, abandoning both victory and defeat\" (Dhammapada, 201). Buddhist philosopher Candrakīrti wrote that soldiery was not a respectable profession: \"the sacrifice of life in battle should not be respected, since this is the basis for harmful actions.\" The Mahayana Brahmajala Sutra states that those who take the Bodhisattva vows should not take any part in war, watch a battle, procure or store weapons, praise or approve of killers and aid the killing of others in any way. In his Abhidharma-kosa, Vasubandhu writes that all soldiers in an army are guilty of the killing of the army, not just those who perform the actual killing. Modern Buddhist peace activists include The 14th Dalai Lama, Aung San Suu Kyi, Thich Nhat Hanh, Sulak Sivaraksa, A. T. Ariyaratne, Preah Maha Ghosananda and Nichidatsu Fujii.\n\nWhile pacifism is the Buddhist ideal, Buddhist states and kingdoms have waged war throughout history and Buddhists have found ways to justify these conflicts. The 5th Dalai Lama who was installed as the head of Buddhism in Tibet by Gushri Khan after the Oirat invasion of Tibet (1635–1642), praised the acts of the Khan and said that he was an emanation of the great Bodhisattva Vajrapani. Under the fifth Dalai Lama and the powerful Gelug Regent Sonam Chophel (1595–1657), treasurer of the Ganden Palace, the Tibetan kingdom launched invasions of Bhutan (c. 1647, ending in failure) and Ladakh (c. 1679, which regained previously lost Tibetan territory) with Mongol aid.\n\nAnother example is that of Buddhist warrior monks in feudal Japan who sometimes committed organized acts of war, protecting their territories and attacking rival Buddhist sects. During the late Heian Period, the Tendai school was a particularly powerful sect, whose influential monasteries could wield armies of monks. A key text of this sect was the Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra, which contains passages allowing the use of violence for the defense of the Dharma. The Ashikaga period saw military conflict between the Tendai school, Jōdo Shinshū school and the Nichiren Buddhists. Zen Buddhism was influential among the samurai, and their Bushido code.\n\nDuring World War II almost all Japanese Buddhists temples (except the Soka Gakkai) strongly supported Japanese imperialism and militarization. The Japanese Pan-Buddhist Society (Myowa Kai) rejected criticism from Chinese Buddhists, stating that \"We now have no choice but to exercise the benevolent forcefulness of 'killing one in order that many may live'\" (issatsu tashō) and that the war was absolutely necessary to implement the dharma in Asia.\n\nThere is no single Buddhist view concerning abortion, although traditional Buddhism rejects abortion because it involves the deliberate destroying of a human life and regards human life as starting at conception. Further, some Buddhist views can be interpreted as holding that life exists before conception because of the never ending cycle of life. The traditional Buddhist view of rebirth sees consciousness as present in the embryo at conception, not as developing over time. In the Vinaya (Theravada and Sarvastivada) then, the causing of an abortion is seen as an act of killing punishable by expulsion from the monastic Sangha. The Abhidharma-kosa states that 'life is there from the moment of conception and should not be disturbed for it has the right to live'.\n\nOne of the reasons this is seen as an evil act is because a human rebirth is seen as a precious and unique opportunity to do good deeds and attain liberation. The Jataka stories contain tales of women who perform abortions being reborn in a hell. In the case where the mother's life is in jeopardy, many traditional Buddhists agree that abortion is permissible. This is the only legally permissible reason for abortion in Sri Lanka, and is also a view accepted in the Tibetan tradition, as argued by Ganden Tri Rinpoche. In the case of rape, however, most Buddhists argue that following an act of violence by allowing 'another kind of violence towards another individual' would not be ethical. Aborting a fetus that is malformed is also seen as immoral by most Buddhists.\n\nThose practicing in Japan and the United States are said to be more tolerant of abortion than those who live elsewhere. In Japan, women sometimes participate in Mizuko kuyo (水子供養 — lit. Newborn Baby Memorial Service) after an induced abortion or an abortion as the result of a miscarriage; a similar Taiwanese ritual is called \"yingling gongyang\". In China abortion is also widely practiced, but in Tibet it is very rare. Thus while most Buddhists would agree that abortion is wrong, they are less likely to push for laws banning the practice. The Dalai Lama has said that abortion is \"negative,\" but there are exceptions. He said, \"I think abortion should be approved or disapproved according to each circumstance.\"\n\nWhile abortion is problematic in Buddhism, contraception is generally a non-issue.\n\nBuddhism understands life as being pervaded by Dukkha, as unsatisfactory and stressful. Ending one's life to escape present suffering is seen as futile because one will just be reborn again, and again. One of the three forms of craving is craving for annihilation (vibhava tanha), and this form of craving is the root of future suffering. Dying with an unwholesome and agitated state of mind is seen as leading to a bad rebirth, so suicide is seen as creating negative karma. Ending one's life is also seen as throwing away the precious opportunity to generate positive karma. While suicide does not seem to be interpreted as a breaking of the first precept (not killing other beings) it is still seen as a grave and unwholesome action.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism, for a monk to praise the advantages of death, including simply telling a person of the miseries of life or the bliss of dying and going to heaven in such a way that he/she might feel inspired to commit suicide or simply pine away to death, is explicitly stated as a breach in one of highest vinaya codes regarding the prohibition of harming life, hence it will result in automatic expulsion from Sangha.\n\nBuddhism sees the experience of dying as a very sensitive moment in one's spiritual life, because the quality of one's mind at the time of death is believed to condition one's future rebirth. The Buddhist ideal is to die in a calm but conscious state, while learning to let go. Dying consciously, without negative thoughts but rather joyously with good thoughts in mind is seen as a good transition into the next life. Chanting and reciting Buddhist texts is a common practice; in Tibet the Bardo Thodol is used to guide the dying to a good rebirth.\n\nTraditional Buddhism would hold Euthanasia, where one brings about the death of a suffering patient (whether or not they desire this) so as to prevent further pain, as a breach of the first precept. The argument that such a killing is an act of compassion because it prevents suffering is unacceptable to traditional Buddhist theology because it is seen to be deeply rooted in delusion. This is because the suffering being who was euthanized would just end up being reborn and having to suffer due to their karma (even though not all suffering is due to karma), and hence killing them does not help them escape suffering. The Abhidharma-kosa clearly states that the killing of one's sick and aged parents is an act of delusion. The act of killing someone in the process of death also ruins their chance to mindfully experience pain and learn to let go of the body, hence desire for euthanasia would be a form of aversion to physical pain and a craving for non-becoming. According to Kalu Rinpoche however, choosing to be removed from life support is karmically neutral. The choice not to receive medical treatment when one is terminally ill is then not seen as morally reprehensible, as long as it does not arise from a feeling of aversion to life. This would also apply to not resuscitating a terminal patient.\n\nHowever there are exceptions to the injunction against suicide. Several Pali suttas contain stories where self-euthanizing is not seen as unethical by the Buddha, showing that the issue is more complex. These exceptions, such as the story of the monk Channa and that of the monk Vakkali , typically deal with advanced Buddhist practitioners. In these exceptional cases, both Channa and Vakkali are both said to be enlightened arhats and euthanized themselves in a calm and detached state of mind.\n\nIn East-Asian and Tibetan Buddhism, the practice of Self-immolation developed. In China, the first recorded self-immolation was by the monk Fayu (d. 396). According to James A. Benn, this tended to be much more common during times of social and political turmoil and Buddhist persecution. It was often interpreted in Buddhist terms as a practice of heroic renunciation. This practice was widely publicized during the Vietnam war and have also continued as a form of protest by Tibetans against the Chinese government.\n\nBuddhism places great emphasis on the sanctity of life and hence in theory forbids the death penalty. However, capital punishment has been used in most historically Buddhist states. The first of the Five Precepts (Panca-sila) is to abstain from destruction of life. Chapter 10 of the Dhammapada states:\n\nChapter 26, the final chapter of the Dhammapada, states \"Him I call a brahmin who has put aside weapons and renounced violence toward all creatures. He neither kills nor helps others to kill\". These sentences are interpreted by many Buddhists (especially in the West) as an injunction against supporting any legal measure which might lead to the death penalty. However, almost throughout history, countries where Buddhism has been the official religion (which have included most of the Far East and Indochina) have practiced the death penalty. One exception is the abolition of the death penalty by the Emperor Saga of Japan in 818. This lasted until 1165, although in private manors executions conducted as a form of retaliation continued to be performed.\n\nBuddhism does not see humans as being in a special moral category over animals or as having any kind of God given dominion over them as Christianity does. Humans are seen as being more able to make moral choices, and this means that they should protect and be kind to animals who are also suffering beings who are living in samsara. Buddhism also sees humans as part of nature, not as separate from it. Thich Naht Hanh summarizes the Buddhist view of harmony with nature thus:\n\nWe classify other animals and living beings as nature, acting as if we ourselves are not part of it. Then we pose the question ‘How should we deal with Nature?’ We should deal with nature the way we should deal with ourselves! We should not harm ourselves; we should not harm nature...Human beings and nature are inseparable.\n\nEarly Buddhist monastics spent a lot of time in the forests, which was seen as an excellent place for meditation and this tradition continues to be practiced by the monks of the Thai Forest Tradition.\n\nThere is a divergence of views within Buddhism on the need for vegetarianism, with some schools of Buddhism rejecting such a claimed need and with most Buddhists in fact eating meat. Many Mahayana Buddhists – especially the Chinese and Vietnamese traditions – strongly oppose meat-eating on scriptural grounds.\n\nThe first precept of Buddhism focuses mainly on direct participation in the destruction of life. This is one reason that the Buddha made a distinction between killing animals and eating meat, and refused to introduce vegetarianism into monastic practice. While early Buddhist texts like the Pali Canon frown upon hunting, butchering, fishing and 'trading in flesh' (meat or livestock) as professions, they do not ban the act of eating meat. Direct participation also includes ordering or encouraging someone to kill an animal for you.\n\nThe Buddhist king Ashoka promoted vegetarian diets and attempted to decrease the number of animals killed for food in his kingdom by introducing 'no slaughter days' during the year. He gave up hunting trips, banned the killing of specific animals and decreased the use of meat in the royal household. Ashoka even banned the killing of some vermin or pests. His example was followed by later Sri Lankan kings. One of Ashoka's rock edicts states:\nHere (in my domain) no living beings are to be slaughtered or offered in sacrifice...Formerly, in the kitchen of Beloved-of-the-Gods, King Piyadasi, hundreds of thousands of animals were killed every day to make curry. But now with the writing of this Dhamma edict only three creatures, two peacocks and a deer are killed, and the deer not always. And in time, not even these three creatures will be killed.\nMany Buddhists, especially in East Asia, believe that Buddhism advocates or promotes vegetarianism. While Buddhist theory tends to equate killing animals with killing people (and avoids the conclusion that killing can sometimes be ethical, e.g. defense of others), outside of the Chinese and Vietnamese monastic tradition, most Buddhists do eat meat in practice. There is some controversy surrounding whether or not the Buddha himself died from eating rancid pork. While most Chinese and Vietnamese monastics are vegetarian, vegetarian Tibetans are rare, due to the harsh Himalayan climate. Japanese lay people tend to eat meat, but monasteries tend to be vegetarian. The Dalai Lama, after contracting Hepatitis B, was advised by doctors to switch to a high animal-protein diet. The Dalai Lama eats vegetarian every second day, so he effectively eats a vegetarian diet for 6 months of the year. In the West, vegetarianism among Buddhists is also common.\n\nIn the Pali version of the Tripitaka, there are number of occasions in which the Buddha ate meat as well as recommending certain types of meat as a cure for medical conditions. On one occasion, a general sent a servant to purchase meat specifically to feed the Buddha. The Buddha declared that:\nThe Buddha held that because the food is given by a donor with good intentions, a monk should accept this as long as it is pure in these three respects. To refuse the offering would deprive the donor of the positive karma that giving provides. Moreover, it would create a certain conceit in the monks who would now pick and choose what food to eat. The Buddha did state however that the donor does generate bad karma for himself by killing an animal. In Theravada Buddhist countries, most people do eat meat, however.\n\nWhile there is no mention of Buddha endorsing or repudiating vegetarianism in surviving portions of Pali Tripitaka and no Mahayana sutras explicitly declare that meat eating violates the first precept, certain Mahayana sutras vigorously and unreservedly denounce the eating of meat, mainly on the ground that such an act violates the bodhisattva's compassion. The sutras which inveigh against meat-eating include the Mahayana version of the \"Nirvana Sutra,\" the \"Shurangama Sutra,\" the \"Brahmajala Sutra,\" the \"Angulimaliya Sutra,\" the \"Mahamegha Sutra,\" and the \"Lankavatara Sutra,\" as well as the Buddha's comments on the negative karmic effects of meat consumption in the \"Karma Sutra\". In the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra, which presents itself as the final elucidatory and definitive Mahayana teachings of the Buddha on the very eve of his death, the Buddha states that \"the eating of meat extinguishes the seed of Great Kindness\", adding that all and every kind of meat and fish consumption (even of animals found already dead) is prohibited by him. He specifically rejects the idea that monks who go out begging and receive meat from a donor should eat it: \". . . it should be rejected . . . I say that even meat, fish, game, dried hooves and scraps of meat left over by others constitutes an infraction . . . I teach the harm arising from meat-eating.\" The Buddha also predicts in this sutra that later monks will \"hold spurious writings to be the authentic Dharma\" and will concoct their own sutras and lyingly claim that the Buddha allows the eating of meat, whereas in fact he says he does not. A long passage in the Lankavatara Sutra shows the Buddha speaking out very forcefully against meat consumption and unequivocally in favor of vegetarianism, since the eating of the flesh of fellow sentient beings is said by him to be incompatible with the compassion that a Bodhisattva should strive to cultivate. In several other Mahayana scriptures, too (e.g., the Mahayana jatakas), the Buddha is seen clearly to indicate that meat-eating is undesirable and karmically unwholesome.\n\nForests and jungles represented the ideal dwelling place for early Buddhists, and many texts praise the forest life as being helpful to meditation. Monks are not allowed to cut down trees as per the Vinaya, and the planting of trees and plants is seen as karmically fruitful. Because of this, Buddhist monasteries are often small nature preserves within the modernizing states in East Asia. The species ficus religiosa is seen as auspicious, because it is the same kind of tree that the Buddha gained enlightenment under.\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, some teachings hold that trees and plants have Buddha nature. Kukai held that plants and trees, along with rocks and everything else, were manifestations of the 'One Mind' of Vairocana and Dogen held that plant life \"was\" Buddha nature.\n\nIn pre-modern times, environmental issues were not widely discussed, though Ashoka banned the burning of forests and promoted the planting of trees in his edicts. Bhikkhu Bodhi, an American Theravada monk, has been outspoken about the issue of environmental crisis. Bodhi holds that the root of the current ecological crisis is the belief that increased production and consumption to satisfy our material and sensual desires leads to well being. The subjugation of nature is directly opposed to the Buddhist view of non-harming and dwelling in nature. Buddhist activists such as Ajahn Pongsak in Thailand and the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement have worked for reforestation and environmental protection. The Dalai Lama also professes the close relationship of human beings and nature, saying that since humans come from nature, there is no point in going against it. He advocates that a clean environment should be considered a basic human right and that it is our responsibility as humans to ensure that we do all we can to pass on a healthy world to those who come after us.\n\nUltimately, while Buddhist scripture does not provide measures for active environmental protection (which would be a form of self-identification, and thus \"dukkha\"), it provides a contrast to the Western systems of consumption, exploitation, and possession. \n\nIn pre-Buddhist Indian religion, women were seen as inferior and subservient to men. Buddha's teachings tended to promote gender equality as the Buddha held that women had the same spiritual capacities as men did. According to Isaline Blew Horner, women in Buddhist India: \"commanded more respect and ranked as individuals. They enjoyed more independence, and a wider liberty to guide and follow their own lives.\" Buddha gave the same teachings to both sexes, praised various female lay disciples for their wisdom and allowed women to become monastics (Bhikkhunis) at a time when this was seen as scandalous in India, where men dominated the spiritual professions. The two chief female disciples of the Buddha were Khema and Uppalavanna. The Buddha taught that women had the same soteriological potential as men, and that gender had no influence on one's ability to advance spiritually to nirvana. In the early Buddhist texts, female enlightened Arhats are common. Buddhist nuns are however bound by an extra 8 precepts not applicable to Buddhist monks called The Eight Garudhammas. The authenticity of these rules is highly contested; they were supposedly added to the (bhikkhunis) Vinaya \"to allow more acceptance\" of a monastic Order for women, during the Buddha's time but can be interpreted as a form of gender discrimination. Alan Sponberg argues that the early Buddhist sangha sought social acceptance through 'institutional androcentrism' as it was dependent on material support from lay society. Because of this Sponberg concludes: \"For all its commitment to inclusiveness at the doctrinal level, institutional Buddhism was not able to (or saw no reason to) challenge prevailing attitudes about gender roles in society.\"\nThe pre-Mahayana texts also state that while women can become Arhats, they cannot become a Samyaksambuddha (a Buddha who discovers the path by himself), Chakravartins (Wheel turning king), a Ruler of heaven, a Mara devil or a Brahama god.\n\nThe Therigatha is a collection of poems from elder Buddhist nuns, and one of the earliest texts of women's literature. Another important text is the Therī-Apadāna, which collects the biographies of eminent nuns. One such verses are those of the nun Soma, who was tempted by Mara when traveling in the woods. Mara states that women are not intelligent enough to attain enlightenment, Soma replies with a verse which indicates the insignificance of gender to spirituality:\n\nIn Mahayana Buddhism, Bodhisattvas such as Tara and Guanyin are very popular female deities. Some Buddhist Tantric texts include female consorts for each heavenly Buddha or Bodhisattva. In these Tantric couples, the female symbolizes wisdom (prajna) and the male symbolizes skillful means (upaya). The union of these two qualities is often depicted as sexual union, known as yab-yum (father-mother).\n\nIn East Asia, the idea of Buddha nature being inherent in all beings is taken to mean that, spiritually at least, the sexes are equal, and this is expressed by the Lion’s Roar of Queen Srimala sutra. Based on this ideal of Buddha nature, the Chinese Chan (Zen) school emphasized the equality of the sexes. Dahui Zonggao (1089–1163) of the Chinese Linji school said of women in Buddhism: \"For mastering the truth, it does not matter whether one is male or female, noble or base.\" The Japanese founder of Soto Zen, Dogen wrote: \"If you wish to hear the Dharma and put an end to pain and turmoil, forget about such things as male and female. As long as delusions have not yet been eliminated, neither men nor women have eliminated them; when they are all eliminated and true reality is experienced, there is no distinction of male and female.\"\n\nThe attitude of Buddhists towards gender has been varied throughout history as it has been influenced by each particular culture and belief system such as Confucianism (which sees women as subservient) and Hinduism. The Theravadin commentator Buddhaghosa (5th century CE) for example, seems to have been influenced by his Brahmin background in stating that rebirth as a male is higher than rebirth as a female. Some Mahayana sutras such as the ‘Sutra on Changing the Female Sex’ and the ‘Questions of the Daughter Pure Faith’ also echo this idea. For various historical and cultural reasons such as wars and invasions, the orders of ordained Buddhist nuns disappeared or was never introduced in Southeast Asia and Tibet, though they slowly started being reintroduced by nuns such as Ayya Khema, Dhammananda Bhikkhuni, Tenzin Palmo and Thubten Chodron. Until very recently, China, Taiwan and Korea were the only places where fully ordained bhiksuni lineages still existed. An international conference of Buddhist nuns was held on February 1987 at Bodh Gaya and saw the formation of 'Sakyadhita' (Daughters of the Buddha) the International Association of Buddhist Women which focuses on helping Buddhist nuns throughout the world.\n\nThe Buddha placed much importance on the cultivation of good will and compassion towards one's parents, spouse, friends and all other beings. Buddhism strongly values harmony in the family and community. Keeping the five precepts and having a generous attitude (Dana) is seen as the foundation for this harmony. An important text, seen as the lay people's Vinaya (code of conduct) is the Sigalovada Sutta which outlines wrong action and warns against the squandering of wealth. The Sigalovada Sutta outlines how a virtuous person \"worships the six directions\" which are parents (East), teachers (South), wife (West), and friends and colleagues (North), and the two vertical directions as: ascetics and Brahmins (Up) and the Servants (Down). The text elaborates on how to respect and support them, and how in turn the Six will return the kindness and support. The relationships are based on reciprocation, and it is understood one has no right to expect behavior from others unless one also performs good acts in their favor.\n\nParents for example, are to be respected and supported with the understanding that they are to have provided care and affection to oneself. In marriage, the sutta states that a householder should treat their wife by \"being courteous to her, by not despising her, by being faithful to her, by handing over authority to her, by providing her with adornments.\" while in return the wife \"performs her duties well, she is hospitable to relations and attendants, she is faithful, she protects what he brings, she is skilled and industrious in discharging her duties.\" The Buddha also stated that a wife and husband are to be each other's best friend (parama sakha). While monogamy is the predominant model for marriage, Buddhist societies have also practiced and accepted polygamy and polyandry. Buddhism sees marriage not as sacred but as a secular partnership and hence has no issue with divorce.\n\nThe Third (or sometimes Fourth) of the Five Precepts of Buddhism states that one is to refrain from \"sexual misconduct\", which has various interpretations, but generally entails any sexual conduct which is harmful to others, such as rape, molestation and often adultery, although this depends on the local marriage and relationship customs. Buddhist monks and nuns of most traditions are not only expected to refrain from all sexual activity but also take vows of celibacy.\n\nAmong the Buddhist traditions there is a vast diversity of opinion about homosexuality, and in interpreting the precedents which define \"sexual misconduct\" generally. Though there is no explicit condemnation of homosexuality in Buddhist sutras, be it Theravada, Mahayana or Mantrayana, societal and community attitudes and the historical view of practitioners have established precedents. Some \"sangha\" equate homosexuality with scriptural sexual misconduct prohibited by the Five Precepts. Other \"sangha\" hold that if sexuality is compassionate and/or consensual and does not contravene vows, then there is no karmic infraction, irrespective of whether it is same-sex or not. Buddhist communities in Western states as well as in Japan generally tend to be accepting of homosexuality. In Japan, homosexual relations among Buddhist samurai and clergy were actually quite common. Male homosexuality between clergy was especially common in the Tantric Shingon school.\n\nAccording to the Pāli Canon & Āgama (the Early Buddhist scriptures), there is no saying that same or opposite gender relations have anything to do with sexual misconduct, and some Theravada monks express that same-gender relations do not violate the rule to avoid sexual misconduct, which means not having sex with someone underage (thus protected by their parents or guardians), someone betrothed or married and who have taken vows of religious celibacy.\n\nSome later traditions, like Shantideva and Gampopa, feature restrictions on non-vaginal sex (including homosexuality). A medieval commentary of the Digha Nikaya mentions examples of immorality in society, and one of the examples is homosexuality, whereas this has no basis in the Sutta. Other Buddhist texts such as the Abhidharma-kosa and the Jataka tales make no mention of homosexuality in this regard. According to Jose Ignacio Cabezon, Buddhist cultures' attitudes towards homosexuality have generally been neutral.\n\nWhile both men and women can ordained, hermaphrodites are not allowed by the Vinaya. According to the ancient texts this is because of the possibility that they will seduce monks or nuns.\nThe Vinaya also prevents \"pandakas\" from becoming monastics, which have been defined as \"without testicles\" and generally referred to those who lacked the normal (usually physical) characteristics of maleness (in some cases it refers to women who lack the normal characteristics of femaleness). This rule was established by the Buddha after a pandaka monk broke the Vinaya precepts by having relations with others. Therefore, it seems that pandakas were initially allowed into the Sangha. Later Buddhist texts like the Milinda Panha and the Abhidharma-kosa see pandakas as being spiritually hindered by their sexuality and mental defilements.\n\nBuddha's teachings to laypeople included advice on how to make their living and how to use their wealth. Right livelihood is an element of the Noble Eightfold Path, and generally refers to making one's living without killing, being complicit in the suffering of other beings (by selling weapons, poison, alcohol or flesh) or through lying, stealing or deceit (advertising which deceives others, for example). The Sigalovada Sutta states that a master should look after servants and employees by: \"(1) by assigning them work according to their ability, (2) by supplying them with food and with wages, (3) by tending them in sickness, (4) by sharing with them any delicacies, (5) by granting them leave at times\" (Digha Nikaya 31). Early Buddhist texts see success in work as aided by one's spiritual and moral qualities.\n\nIn the Adiya Sutta the Buddha also outlined several ways in which people could put their 'righteously gained' wealth to use:\n\nThe Buddha placed much emphasis on the virtue of giving and sharing, and hence the practice of donating and charity are central to Buddhist economic ethics. Even the poor are encouraged to share, because this brings about greater spiritual wealth: \"If beings knew, as I know, the results of giving & sharing, they would not eat without having given, nor would the stain of selfishness overcome their minds. Even if it were their last bite, their last mouthful, they would not eat without having shared, if there were someone to receive their gift.\" The modern growth of Engaged Buddhism has seen an emphasis on social work and charity. Buddhist aid and activist organizations include Buddhist Global Relief, Lotus Outreach, Buddhist Peace Fellowship, Piyarra Kutta, International Network of Engaged Buddhists, The Tzu Chi Foundation, Nonviolent Peaceforce, and Zen Peacemakers.\n\nBuddhist texts promote the building of public works which benefit the community and stories of Buddhist Kings like Ashoka are used as an example of lay people who promoted the public welfare by building hospitals and parks for the people. The Buddha's chief lay disciple, the rich merchant Anathapindika (‘Feeder of the Poor’) is also another example of a virtuous layperson who donated much of his wealth for the benefit of others and was thus known as the \"foremost disciple in generosity\". Early Buddhist texts do not disparage merchants and trade, but instead promote enterprise as long as it is done ethically and leads to the well being of the community. The gold standard for rulers in Buddhism is the ideal wheel turning king, the Chakravartin. A Chakravartin is said to rule justly, giving to the needy and combating poverty so as to prevent social unrest. A Chakravartin does not fight wars for gain but only in defense of the kingdom, he accepts immigrants and refugees, and builds hospitals, parks, hostels, wells, canals and rest houses for the people and animals. Mahayana Buddhism maintains that lay Bodhisattvas should engage in social welfare activities for the good and safety of others. In the lands of Southern Buddhism, Buddhist monasteries often became places were the poor, destitute, orphaned, elderly can take shelter. Monasteries often provided education and took care of the sick, and therefore are also centers of social welfare for the poor.\n\nRobert Thurman, in his discussion of Nagarjuna's \"Precious Garland Ratnavali\" sees the Mahayana Buddhist tradition as politically supporting ‘a welfare state ...a rule of compassionate socialism’. Prominent Buddhist socialists include the 14th Dalai Lama, Buddhadasa, B. R. Ambedkar, U Nu, Girō Seno’o and Lin Qiuwu. Others such as Neville Karunatilake, E. F. Schumacher, Padmasiri De Silva, Prayudh Payutto and Sulak Sivaraksa have promoted a Buddhist economics that does not necessarily define itself as socialist but still offers a critique of modern consumer capitalism. E. F. Schumacher in his \"Buddhist economics\" (1973) wrote: \"Buddhist economics must be very different from the economics of modern materialism, since the Buddhist sees the essence of civilisation not in a multiplication of human wants but in the purification of human character.\"\n\nWhile modern economics seeks to satisfy human desires, Buddhism seeks to reduce our desires and hence Buddhist economics would tend to promote a sense of Anti-consumerism and Simple living. In his \"Buddhist Economics: A Middle Way for the Market Place\", Prayudh Payutto writes that consumption is only a means to an end which is 'development of human potential' and 'well being within the individual, within society and within the environment'. From a Buddhist perspective then, 'Right consumption' is based on well being while 'wrong consumption' is the need to 'satisfy the desire for pleasing sensations or ego-gratification'. Similarly, Sulak Sivaraksa argues that \"the religion of consumerism emphasizes greed, hatred and delusion\" which causes anxiety and that this must be countered with an ethic of satisfaction Modern attempts to practice Buddhist economics can be seen in the Sarvodaya Shramadana Movement and in the Gross National Happiness economics of Bhutan.\n\nWhile Buddhism does not see anything wrong with wealth gained ethically, it does see greed and craving for riches as negative, and praises contentment as 'the greatest wealth'. Poverty and debt are seen as causes of suffering, immorality and social unrest if they prevent one from having basic necessities and peace of mind. For laypeople, Buddhism promotes the middle way between a life of poverty and a materialistic or consumerist life in which one is always seeking to enrich oneself and to buy more things. For Buddhist laypersons then, to be Buddhist does not mean to reject all material things, but, according to Sizemore and Swearer: \"it specifies an attitude to be cultivated and expressed in whatever material condition one finds oneself. To be non-attached is to possess and use material things but not to be possessed or used by them. Therefore, the idea of non-attachment applies all across Buddhist society, to laymen and monk alike.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33033374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33033374", "title": "Central European Institute of Philosophy", "text": "Central European Institute of Philosophy\n\nThe Central European Institute of Philosophy (SIF; ; ) established in 2010, is a joint institution of the Charles University Faculty of Humanities and the Czech Republic Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Philosophy. The SIF seeks to follow in the footsteps of Prague’s “Cercle philosophique,” which was established by Czech and German professors from the University of Prague in 1934, but soon disbanded with the German occupation of Czechoslovakia. The Institute promotes philosophical research – with an emphasis on the phenomenological as well as on trans/ interdisciplinary.\n\nThe Czech Republic, with its tradition of a rather unusual symbiotic alliance of Czech, Jewish, and German intellectuals is an ideal location for the SIF. The country has already birth to various influential movements: The Prague Circle literary school (Franz Kafka, Max Brod, Felix Weltsch, Franz Werfel, Oscar Baum), in art Czech cubism and surrealism along with other disciplines such as empirical criticism (Ernst Mach), phenomenology (Edmund Husserl), and psychoanalysis (Sigmund Freud). As one of its primary objectives, the SIF seeks to map the rich potential of the varied cultural and ethnic influences that shape the present day Czech state. This mapping enables a hypothesis as to the reciprocal influences of not only other European traditions but also non-European and the consequences these might hold for the present and the future.\n\nIn keeping with this multi-cultural tradition, two directors guide the SIF: a Czech, Karel Novotny and a German, Hans Rainer Sepp. The Institute is composed of a staff of permanent and external members and is also supported by an international scholarly board of 36 professors or institutions representing twenty countries. All strive in close association so that SIF may bring together thinkers and scholars working in a wide range of disciplines concerned with the study of philosophical, historical, critical, and theoretical issues. In addition, SIF also is the home of the book series “Orbis Phaenomenologicus,” founded in 1993 and published by Königshausen & Neumann, Würzburg, Germany, as well as the newly established series “libri nigri. Thinking Across Boundaries” and “libri virides. The Young Forum,” published by Traugott Bautz, Nordhausen, Germany.\n\nA research project entitled “Philosophical Investigations of Body Experiences: Trans-disciplinary Perspectives” is currently underway at the SIF. In addition to its ongoing research projects, the SIF offers specialized advanced courses in conjunction with the EU Master Program “German and French Philosophy in the European Context.” The Institute also organizes and hosts international conferences and is very active in facilitating the publication of established and young scholars alike. To date the SIF has organized three international conferences and edited ten book publications. All of these activities attest to SIF’s commitment to providing a place of intellectual exchange, dialogue, and debate as scholars re-think the methodology and assumptions of their respective disciplines in light of the cultural perspectives and assumptions of others both past and present.\n\n"}
{"id": "27993301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27993301", "title": "Chaplet of the Five Wounds", "text": "Chaplet of the Five Wounds\n\nThe Chaplet of the Five Wounds is a Passionist chaplet devoted to the Holy Wounds of Jesus, as a means to promote devotion to the Passion of Christ.\n\nThe chaplet is due to Father Paul Aloysius, the sixth superior general of the Passionists. The devotion also honors the mystery of the risen Christ which has the marks of the Five Wounds. Pope Leo XII approved the chaplet in 1823.\n\nThis chaplet must be blessed by the Passionist superior or a delegation from him.\n\nThis chaplet has 25 beads, grouped into five sets. The \"Gloria Patri\" is said on each bead. At the end of each section of beads, a Hail Mary in honor of the sorrows of Mary is said. At the end of the chaplet, three additional Hail Marys are said in honor of her tears.\n\n"}
{"id": "27992068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27992068", "title": "Chaplet of the Five Wounds of Jesus", "text": "Chaplet of the Five Wounds of Jesus\n\nThe Chaplet of the Five Wounds of Jesus or the Little Chaplet of the Five Wounds of Jesus Crucified is a devotional prayer written in 1761 by St. Alphonsus Liguori, a devotional writer and founder of the Redemptorist Fathers religious community.\n\nSt. Alphonsus wrote the devotional as a meditation on the five piercing wounds that Christ suffered during his crucifixion.\n\n"}
{"id": "34019074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34019074", "title": "Chinese views on sin", "text": "Chinese views on sin\n\nThe concept of sin, in the sense of violating a universal moral code, was unknown in Chinese philosophy and folk religion until around the second century CE, when Buddhism arrived from India and religious Daoism originated. While English lexically differentiates theological \"sin\" from legal \"crime\", the Chinese language uses one word \"zui\" 罪 meaning \"crime; guilt; misconduct; sin; fault; blame.\"\n\nChinese has two common words meaning \"sin\": \"zui\" () and \"guo\" (). The German sociologist Wolfram Eberhard wrote \"Guilt and Sin in Traditional China\", which said \"zui\" has three basic meanings \"crime, punishment of a crime, and sin\", and \"guo\" means \"a criminal act which has been unintentionally committed, as well as a sin which has been committed without any intention\" .\n\n\"Zui\" can mean \"crime; criminal act; punishment; guilt; fault; blame; wrongdoing; misconduct; sin; suffering; hardship\". Some \"zui\" compounds, such as \"youzui\" 有罪 (with \"have; there is\") \"guilty (of an offense); sinful\", are ambiguous between \"crime\" and \"sin\"; while others are unequivocal, such as \"fanzui\" 犯罪 (with \"crime; criminal\") \"commit a crime; criminal act\" or \"yuanzui\" 原罪 (with \"origin; source\") \"original sin\". The Chinese character 罪 for \"zui\" combines \"wang\" 罒 or 网 \"net\" over \"fei\" 非 \"wrong\", ideographically depicting, \"A 网 net used to capture the criminal who has done 非 wrong\" (Bishop 2011). \"Zui\" was used to translate Chinese Buddhist terminology, for instance, \"zuizhang\" 罪障 (with \"obstruction\") \"sin\" and \"zuiye\" 罪業 (with \"action\") \"sinful karma\".\n\n\"Zui\" 罪 \"crime; guilt; punishment\" had an archaic variant Chinese character \"zui\" 辠, written with \"zi\" 自 \"nose\" and \"xin\" 辛 \"painful\" — emphasizing the \"punishment\" aspect of \"zui\". For instance, under traditional Chinese law, the excruciating Five Punishments included \"yi\" 劓 \"cutting off the nose\". The (121 CE) \"Shuowen Jiezi\" dictionary defined the original meanings of these homophonous \"zui\" characters as罪 \"fish trap\" and 辠 \"crime; punishment\", and noted Qin dynasty (221 BCE-206 BCE) imperial naming taboo made 辠 obsolete. The first Qin emperor Qin Shi Huang 秦始皇 forbid using \"zui\" 辠 \"crime\", which graphically resembled \"huang\" 皇 \"emperor\" in his name, and replaced it with \"zui\" 罪 (Schuessler 2007:637). In Modern Standard Chinese character usage, \"zui\" 罪 is common and \"zui\" 辠 is rare.\n\n\"Guo\" nominally means \"fault; mistake; error; excess\" and verbally \"pass by; go past; surpass; cross; exceed\". The specialized sense of \"sin\" is usually limited to Daoist usage, except for the Chinese \"synonym compound\" \"zuiguo(r)\" 罪過(兒) \"fault; wicked act; sin; offense\", which is a humble expression for \"guilty conscience; this is really more than I deserve.\"\n\nWords meaning \"sin; violation of religious law\" are not a linguistic universal. For instance, the anthropologist Verrier Elwin, who studied the Gondi language, said, \"There are no words in Gondi for sin or virtue: a man may be ruined, here and hereafter, for a breach of a taboo, but the notion of retribution for sinners is an alien importation\" . The Gondi language word \"pap\" \"sin\" is a loanword from the Marathi language. Fürer-Haimendorf explains that, \n… throughout the Christian era men and women of the western world believed in the existence of a universal phenomenon which they called sin. The tongues they spoke provided terms (\"peccatum\", \"péché\", \"sin\", \"Sünde\" etc.) which referred to this phenomenon and it was not until the age of discovery that Christian missionaries encountered languages which did not contain any comparable terms. The existence of such languages leads us inevitably to the conclusion that the concept and with it the sense of sin cannot be common to all branches of humanity. This raises the question whether some societies lack the very idea that certain modes of conduct are not only undesirable in the eyes of other men but that they also bring the actor into conflict with supernatural powers believed to play the role of guardians of morality—in other words whether there exist ethnic groups devoid of any concept of 'sin' in the conventional sense. (1974:540) \n\nThe word \"zui\" 辠 or 罪 \"crime; guilt\" occurred in Chinese classics and bronze inscriptions from the Zhou dynasty (1046-256 BCE). Eberhard concluded that \"sin\" was unknown prior to the Han dynasty (206 BCE-220 CE).\nIf we apply our definition of \"sin\" – a violation of a divine code – Chinese folk religion before the Han period (206 B.C.) seems not to have had the concept of sin, although it recognized a great number of supernatural beings. People who offended the deities, spirits, or other supernatural beings by not honoring them or by failing to sacrifice in the right way or at the right time might make them angry. The deities then could or would punish such people. An event of this kind was more or less like any offense against a human superior, with the only difference that deities were believed to be superior to humans; they formed, if this expression be permitted, a social class above the upper class in human society. This class of supernatural beings was structured: some deities had more, others less, power, but the structure was more like a class structure than like a bureaucratic one although one god was vaguely recognized as the highest of all. \n\nThe Chinese historian Yu Ying-shih disagreed with Eberhard's conclusion that early Chinese religions disregarded \"sin\" because\n… our knowledge of folk religion in ancient China is still too limited to warrant such a general statement. In his \"Analects\" Confucius once quoted a saying that was apparently common among the people as follows: \"He who sins against heaven has none to whom he can pray.\" The word \"sin\" (\"tsui\") here seems close enough to mean a violation of a divine code. \nHowever, none of the English \"Analects\" translations renders \"zui\" as \"sin\". This context (3/13) quotes Confucius explaining a rhymed adage about sacrificing to either the Kitchen God or ancestral spirits.\n\nBodde also disagreed with Eberhard.\nI see no reason why the idea of sin must derive solely from belief in a divine law court—an obvious projection of the terrestrial law courts of bureaucratic China. On the contrary, the idea of sin could equally well spring from the fear of violating supernatural sanctions, even though not thought of as codified and bureaucratically administered. If one accepts this supposition, it then become evident that the concept of sin was already known in pre-Buddhist China, though in a form less widespread and perhaps less acutely felt than that disseminated by Buddhism and religious Taoism. \n\nThe history of Chinese Buddhism began circa the 1st or 2nd century CE when Silk Road Buddhist missionaries (originally perceived as foreign Huang-Lao Daoists) arrived in China.\n\nDefining \"folk Buddhism\" as \"a simplified form which even the uneducated could understand\", Wolfram said,\nIt seems that folk Buddhism almost immediately brought to China the concept of sin and of punishment of sin. Texts, which are attributed to the late second century A.D., already enumerated the punishments meted out to the souls of sinners in different \"hells.\" A sin committed during a lifetime was not immediately punished, but the sinner received punishment after death. This was an attempt to answer the eternal question why some people who had committed many crimes or immoral acts had a good life until their death, escaping punishment by human justice. Pre-Buddhist ethics had no answer to this problem other than to refer to fate (\"ming\") as an unclear, inscrutable power.\n\"Ming\" 命 \"life; fate; destiny; command\" was personified in the \"Siming \" 司命 (lit. \"Controller of Fate\"), who arbitrated human destiny.\n\nWhen Buddhist missionaries, such as An Shigao (d. 168 CE), began translating sūtras into Chinese, they used \"zui\" 罪 \"crime; guilt\" for Sanskrit \"pāpa\" or \"pāpá\" पाप \"evil, misfortune, bad luck, trouble, mischief, harm; sin, vice, crime, guilt.\" \"Pāpa\" arises from intentions and actions that are \"akuśala\" \"evil; inauspicious; unwholesome\", which is translated as Chinese \"e\" 惡 \"evil\" or \"bushan\" 不善 \"not good; unholy; bad; evil\". Damien Keown (2003:211) explains, \"Essentially, pāpa is that which leads one away from nirvāṇa, and is closer to the concept of error than an offence against divine authority or a condition innate in human nature such as original sin.\"\n\nBuddhist monks and nuns practice \"pāpa-deśanā\" \"confession of sins/infringements (of the Patimokkha code)\", which Chinese transliterates as \"chanhui\" 懺悔 \"repent; confess\". The alternate term \"xiangbihui\" 向彼悔 \"repent sins to others\" (from \"pratideśanīya\") emphasizes publicly confessing to the monastic sangha \"community\". Buddhist confession is not considered an appeal for divine absolution, but an aid to spiritual progress and clearing karmic obstacles.\n\nIn the 5th century , Chinese Buddhists used \"wei\" 穢 \"dirty; vile; abominable; ugly\" to denote \"sin\", and correspondingly, \"the Buddhist 'paradise,' the place in which there is no sin\" is called \"jingtu\" 淨土 \"clean land; pure land\" .\n\nThe Buddhist notion of \"sin\", translated as Chinese \"zui\", was explained in terms of karma and reincarnation. Thus, Eberhard explains,\nThe folk-Buddhistic concept of sin did not refer to an action against a single deity or to the provocation of divine anger, but it meant a violation of a moral code which was somehow set, and was applicable to and valid for the world of the gods as well as the world of man. Even if human justice had dealt with the criminal according to the law of the society, his offense still remained to be punished. Folk Buddhism eliminated the caprices or arbitrary reactions of deities, and instituted a religious system that we might call \"constitutional monarchism\", that is, the belief in a law that is absolutely binding even for the judge and is administered in an impersonal manner by an appointed heavenly judge. \n\nBuddhism opposes \"pāpa\" \"sin; demerit\" with \"punya\" \"merit; meritorious action\", referring to karmic merit gained from actions like giving alms, reciting sutras, and performing puja devotions. The Chinese translation of \"punya\" is \"gong\" 功 \" achievement; result; skill; meritorious service\", compounded in \"gong-guo\" 功過 \"achievements and errors; merits and sins\".\n\nThe ethnologist Christoph von Fürer-Haimendorf described the importance of karmic \"merit\" in Chinese spiritual thought, \n… as Buddhism spread into China from the first century A.D. onwards the idea of sin and the punishment of sins gained wide currency. Indeed the systematisation of such punishments in numerous minutely described hells reflects the Chinese genius for classification. These supernatural punishments for violations of an impersonal moral code were independent of the mechanism of human justice. There was a strong emphasis on the feeling of guilt. Even if sinful actions remained undetected by society, the sinner knew that they were recorded by supernatural powers, and that punishment would inevitably follow after death. But like Tibetan Buddhists the Chinese believed that sins could be outweighed by meritorious actions. Hence feelings of guilt stimulated the giving of alms and support for monks and religious institutions. (1974: 551)\n\nThe Buddhist scholar Alfred Bloom refuted the common Western belief that Chinese and Japanese religions have no sense of \"sin\" or \"guilt\".\nSin and guilt are generally viewed from a Christian perspective in which sin is rebellion against the will of God, and consequent guilt is the feeling of rejection by the divine. Such sin and guilt is, of course, not experienced in the Buddhist context. However, it may be possible to employ the terms, or similar terms such as \"depravity\" or \"defiled\" to depict man's involvement in the passions and bondage to the world which prevents him from attaining the high Buddhist ideals revealed in Sakyamuni and his early disciples. Such people realize that they fall short of the potentialities of the human nature symbolized in Buddha. Their guilt is derived not from a feeling of rejection by deity, but by a self-rejection as they become aware of the gulf which separates them from the ideals of the Buddha. (1967:144-145)\nSome Buddhist Schools, such as Pure Land, teach that we are currently in the degenerate and immoral Mappō \"Latter Day of the Dharma\", and can find salvation from sin through faith in Amitābha.\n\nEarly Daoist religious movements – Yellow Turban, Celestial Master, and Highest Clarity schools – believed that \"guo\" 過 \"excess; sin\" causes sickness and confession cures it. The recorded history of Daoist \"sin\" began in the 2nd-century CE, contemporaneous with the Buddhist introduction of \"zui\" 罪 \"guilt; sin\".\n\nThe role of \"sin\" in Daoism is frequently misconstrued. For instance, one introductory text (Cooper et al. 2010:14) claims, \"Taoism has no doctrine of sin. Ethics should be incidental to spiritual values, and indeed, there is no ideograph in Chinese which conveys the Western conception of sin and a sense of guilt.\" As mentioned above, \"zui\" 罪 means both \"sin\" and \"guilt.\"\n\nThe Yellow Turban Rebellion (184-205 CE) against the Han dynasty was led by Zhang Jue, who founded \"Taiping Dao\" \"The Way of Great Peace\", based on the \"Taiping Jing\" \"Scripture of Great Peace.\" According to Stephen Bokenkamp, \nThe Yellow Turbans converted people to their cause through healing practices, including old methods such as incantation and doses of water infused with the ashes of talismans, and a new one – confession of sins. This latter practice is significant. The \"Scripture of Great Peace\" relates confession to the idea that political and cosmic diseases are caused by humans and must be cured on the individual level. Sin, in this text, is the failure to act in accord with one's social role, thereby blocking the circulation of the Dao's energies. (1997:33) \nThis scripture teaches that sins result in natural disasters, epidemics, social discontent, and war. \"Evil has accumulated for innumerable generations through the inheritance of sins\" (tr. Kaltenmark 1979:24), and heaven has sent the Celestial Master to save humanity. The \"Scripture of Great Peace\" gives examples of the six worst sins (1979:33-34), such as accumulating Dao \"the way\" or De \"inner power\" without teaching them to others, and accumulating riches without aiding the poor.\n\nThe \"Taiping Jing\" introduced the Daoist dogma of \"chengfu\" 承負 \"inherited burden\", roughly comparable with Christian ancestral sin. Toshiaki Yamada (2008:265) explains that \"chengfu\" \"refers to the liability for sins and transgressions that individuals and societies inherit from their predecessors. As fault and blame are passed from one generation to another, calamities and misfortune increase.\" Later generations can make amends for the sins of their ancestors, through reflective \"siguo\" 思過 \"considering sin\", confessional \"shouguo\" 首過 \"admitting sin\"), and corrective \"zize\" 自責 \"blaming oneself\". Daoist \"chengfu\" fundamentally differs from Buddhist \"karma\".\nIn Buddhism, the good and evil performed by an individual in past lives is reflected in what form his or her present life takes, and good and evil behavior in the present life determines future rebirth. \"Chengfu\", by contrast, not only considers the past and future lives of the individual, but also that individuals inherit the results of the good and evil of the behavior of their ancestors, and that these results accumulate not only at the individual level, but also at the social level. In this sense, \"inherited burden\" is based on the unit of the family and, as its extension, of society. (Yamada 2008:266) \n\nThe \"Tianshi Dao\" Way of the Celestial Masters, founded by Zhang Daoling in 142 CE, taught that the gods maintained celestial registers of good and evil deeds, and regarded sickness as divine punishment for sins.\n\nThe Celestial Masters adapted Yellow Turban beliefs about sin, summarized by the French sinologist Isabelle Robinet. \nLaw and morality were one. The gods, some of whom were of popular origin, like the gods of the earth and the hearth, watched for and recorded misdeeds such as drunkenness, debauchery, and theft. These had to be expiated by confession, often public, and by penances that consisted of community service, such as road repair, or a retreat (into \"purity chambers\") to encourage the sinner to reflect. Sickness was seen as a punishment for sin and treated by religious methods like confession or the use of holy water. (1997:58-59) \nIn cases where Daoist religious practices did not cure sickness, (Bokenkamp 1997:299) \"the failure was said to be caused by their not keeping faith with the Dao\".\n\nThe \"tutan zhai\" 塗炭齋 \"mud and ashes retreat\" was a Celestial Master ritual meant to rescue the participants and their ancestors from sufferings in \"diyu\" 地獄 \"earth prison; hell; naraka; purgatory\" (Bokenkamp 1997:162, Robinet 1997:60). A Taoist priest would daub his face with mud and ashes (a synecdoche for flood and fire and metaphor for suffering) in penitence, lie on the (preferably frozen) ground, with hands tied behind his back (like a criminal), and confess past sins.\n\nThe Shangqing \"Highest Clarity\" School also believed in both individual and ancestral sins. Jeaneane Fowler (2005:143) stated, \"The unbreakable bond with ancestors was emphasized in the belief that the sins of the ancestors of several generations past still affected the individual of today. However, reciprocally, the relative sin or merit of a living individual could also affect that of past ancestors. And if that living individual were to achieve salvation, then so would the ancestors.\"\n\nIn Highest Clarity tradition (Bokenkamp 1997:299), annual confession of sins was required on the autumnal equinox because that is the day when the spirits of one's body reported sins and transgressions to the Sage Lord.\n\nThe Lingbao \"Sacred Jewel\" School of Daoism, which originated in the early 5th century, adapted Buddhist many precepts such as sin and reincarnation. The \"Sanyuan pin\" 三元品 \"Precepts of the Three Primes\" text lists 22 sins for \"those who pursue the highest Dao\":\nIt further lists 145 sins for \"students of the Dao and lay followers\":\n\nBeginning around the Song dynasty (960–1279), the idea of \"gongguo ge\" 功過格 \"ledgers of merit and demerit\" became widespread, with sins divinely calculated as demerit points (Yamada 2008:266).\n\nKristofer Schipper (1993:222) noted that although modern Daoists believe the sin of losing \"qi\" \"vital energy\" can lead to illness and accidents, sin \"is not considered to be irreducible (there is no \"original sin\"). Neither it is something that is solely and simply moral, but is rather related to the equilibrium of the body.\"\n\nThe concept of \"sin; offense against god\" is a long-standing hamartiological problem for Christianity in China. Uhalley and Wu (2001:71-72) described it as a \"notorious crux in Christian-Confucian dialogue\"; \"The central issues here are the doctrines of sin as an offense against God, original sin, and redemption, which are, for Christians, revealed doctrines. But all are absent from, rather than contrary to, Confucian values.\"\n\nEarly Jesuit missionaries generally translated Latin \"peccatum\" \"sin\" with the Buddhist term \"zui\" 罪 \"guilt; sin\" rather than the Daoist \"guo\" 過 \"exceed; sin\". Some semantically related Chinese words are \"chan\" 懺 \"repent; regret; confess (sins)\", \"hui\" 悔 \"regret, repent; show remorse\", \"chanhui\" 懺悔 \"confess; repent\", \"shezui\" 赦罪 \" pardon (a criminal); forgive (a sinner)\", \"zuiquian\" 罪愆 \"offense; sin of omission\", \"buke raoshu de zui\" 不可饶恕的罪 \"mortal sin\", and \"ke yuanliang de zui\" 可原谅的罪 \"venial sin\".\n\nSome Christian missionaries in China apologetically blamed their lack of converts upon Chinese misunderstandings of \"sin\". John claimed, \"Sin, however, in the Scriptural sense, is not recognized by their system. The contrast of good and evil, according to their view, resolves itself into a difference in degree.\" James Legge (1881:294) said neither Confucianism nor Daoism knew anything about the propitiation of sin, and, \"The knowledge of God in Confucianism, which has become a heritage of the Chinese people, is very precious; but the restriction of the worship of Him to the sovereign has prevented the growth and wide development among them of a sense of sin.\" Dyer Ball (1927:535-536) described the \"vague\" Chinese idea of sin, and \"the task of tasks is to bring home to the native mind the sense of what sin is.\n\nIn the 1980s-1990s, after the end of the Cultural Revolution, a number of Chinese Cultural Christians have advocated for the doctrine of original sin as having warrant in mainland China due to the sociopolitical unrest that it has recently experienced .\n\nCultural anthropology traditionally distinguished two modalities of social control: a shame society based on inculcating feelings of shame and the threat of ostracism, and a guilt society based on feelings of guilt and the threat of punishment. Western scholars generally classify the Chinese and Japanese societies as shame based, emphasizing the psychological fear of losing face.\n\nEberhard explained that in traditional Chinese culture,\nSin was defined as actions, behavior, and thoughts that violated rules set up by supernatural powers. Sin is the equivalent of legal guilt, which is a violation of rules set up by earthly powers and the emotion which results from such a violation of legal rules. We might say that persons who have such a concept of \"sin,\" and the emotions accompanying a sinful act or thought, seem to have internalized social norms to a perhaps even higher degree than persons who have only a feeling for legal guilt, because Chinese supernatural rules are based upon social norms. They are not in contradiction to these social norms and laws but strengthen and tighten them. \n\nBased on experiments in cross-cultural psychiatry (see ), modern scholars doubt the thesis of a Chinese \"shame culture.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10104178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10104178", "title": "Critique of ideology", "text": "Critique of ideology\n\nThe critique of ideology is a concept in critical theory. It entails the submission of received understanding to critical reappropriation for the purpose of human emancipation. An important part of ideology critique has to do with “looking suspiciously at works of art and debunking them as tools of oppression.”\n\n"}
{"id": "3047135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3047135", "title": "David Hull", "text": "David Hull\n\nDavid Lee Hull (15 June 1935 – 11 August 2010) was an American philosopher with a particular interest in the philosophy of biology. In addition to his academic prominence, he was well known as a gay man who fought for the rights of other gay and lesbian philosophers.\n\nHull was one of the first graduates of the History and Philosophy of Science department at Indiana University. After earning his PhD from IU he taught at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee for 20 years before moving to Northwestern, where he taught for another 20 years. Hull was a former president of the Philosophy of Science Association and the Society for Systematic Biology. He was particularly well known for his argument that species are not sets or collections but rather spatially and temporally extended individuals (also called the individuality thesis or \"species-as-individuals\" thesis).\n\nHull also proposed an elaborate discussion of science as an evolutionary process in his 1988 book, which also offered a historical account of the \"taxonomy wars\" of the 1960s and 1970s between three competing schools of taxonomy: phenetics, evolutionary systematics, and cladistics. In Hull's view, science evolves like organisms and populations do, with a demic population structure, subject to selection for ideas based on \"conceptual inclusive credit.\" Either novelty or citation of work gives credit, and the professional careers of scientists share in credit by using successful research. This is a \"hidden hand\" account of scientific progress.\n\nHe was Dressler Professor in the Humanities Emeritus at Northwestern University.\n\n\n\n\nhttps://www.findagrave.com/cgi-bin/fg.cgi?page=gr&GSln=hull&GSfn=david&GSmn=l&GSbyrel=all&GSdyrel=all&GSob=n&GRid=184371912&df=all&\n"}
{"id": "197383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197383", "title": "Dzogchen", "text": "Dzogchen\n\nDzogchen () or \"Great Perfection\", Sanskrit: अतियोग, is a tradition of teachings in Tibetan Buddhism aimed at discovering and continuing in the natural primordial state of being. It is a central teaching of the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism and of Bon. In these traditions, Dzogchen is the highest and most definitive path of the nine vehicles to liberation.\n\n\"Dzogchen\" is composed of two terms:\n\nThe term initially referred to the \"highest perfection\" of deity visualisation, after the visualisation has been dissolved and one rests in the natural state of the innately luminous and pure mind. In the 10th and 11th century, \"Dzogchen\" emerged as a separate tantric vehicle in the Nyingma tradition, used synonymously with the Sanskrit term \"ati yoga\" (primordial yoga).\n\nAccording to van Schaik, in the 8th-century tantra \"Sarvabuddhasamāyoga\" \nAccording to the 14th Dalai Lama, the term \"dzogchen\" may be a rendering of the Sanskrit term \"mahāsandhi\".\n\nAccording to Anyen Rinpoche, the true meaning is that the student must take the entire path as an interconnected entity of equal importance. Dzogchen is perfect because it is an all-inclusive totality that leads to middle way realization, in avoiding the two extremes of nihilism and eternalism. It classifies outer, inner and secret teachings, which are only separated by the cognitive construct of words and completely encompasses Tibetan Buddhist wisdom. It can be as easy as taking Bodhicitta as the method, and failing this is missing an essential element to accomplishment.\n\nAccording to the Nyingma tradition, the primordial Buddha Samantabhadra taught Dzogchen to the Buddha Vajrasattva, who transmitted it to the first human lineage holder, the Indian Garab Dorje (fl. 55 CE). According to tradition, the Dzogchen teachings were brought to Tibet by Padmasambhava in the late 8th and early 9th centuries. He was aided by two Indian masters, Vimalamitra and Vairocana. According to the Nyingma tradition, they transmitted the Dzogchen teachings in three distinct series, namely the Mind Series (\"sem-de\"), Space series (\"long-de\"), and Secret Instruction Series (\"men-ngak-de\"). According to tradition, these teachings were concealed shortly afterward, during the 9th century, when the Tibetan empire disintegrated. From the 10th century forward, innovations in the Nyingma tradition were largely introduced historically as revelations of these concealed scriptures, known as terma.\n\nIn the fourteenth century, Loden Nyingpo revealed a terma containing the story of Tonpa Shenrab Miwoche. According to this terma, Dzogchen originated with the founder of the Bon tradition, Tonpa Shenrab, who lived 18,000 years ago, ruling the kingdom of Tazik, which supposedly lay west of Tibet. He transmitted these teachings to the region of Zhang-zhung, the far western part of the Tibetan cultural world. The earliest Bon literature only exists in Tibetan manuscripts, the earliest of which can be dated to the 11th century. The Bon tradition also has a threefold classification, namely \"Dzogchen\", \"A-tri\", and the \"Zhang-zhung Aural Lineage (\"zhang-zhung nyen-gyu\").\n\nThe written history of Tibet begins in the early 7th century, when the Tibetan kingdoms were united, and Tibet expanded throughout large parts of Central Asia. Songtsen Gampo (reign ca.617-649/50) conquered the kingdom of Zhangzhung in western Tibet, dominated Nepal, and threatened the Chinese dominance in strategically important areas of the Silk Road. He is also credited with the adoption of a writing system, the establishment of a legal code, and the introduction of Buddhism, though it probably only played a minor role. Tri Songdetsen (742-ca.797) adopted Buddhism, but also maintained the martial traditions of the Tibetan empire. The Tibetans controlled Dunhuang, a major Buddhist center, from the 780s until the mid-ninth century. Halfway through the 9th century the Tibetan empire collapsed. Royal patronage of Buddhism was lost, leading to a decline of Buddhism in Tibet, only to recover with the renaissance of Tibetan culture occurring from the late 10th century to the early 12th century, known as the later dissemination of Buddhism.\n\nTraditionally, the early Dzogchen literature is categorized into three categories, which more or less reflect the historical development of Dzogchen:\n\nAccording to Sam van Schaik, who studies early Dzogchen manuscripts from the Dunhuang caves, the Dzogchen texts are influenced by earlier Mahayana sources such as the Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra and Indian Buddhist Tantras with their teaching of emptiness and luminosity, which in Dzogchen texts are presented as 'ever-purity' (\"ka-dag\") and 'spontaneous presence' (\"lhun-grub\").\n\nSam van Schaik also notes that there is a discrepancy between the histories as presented by the traditions, and the picture that emerges from those manuscripts.\n\nThere is no record of Dzogchen as a separate tradition or vehicle prior to the 10th century, although the terms \"atiyoga\" (as a higher practice than Tantra) and \"dzogchen\" do appear in 8th and 9th century Indian tantric texts. There is also no independent attestation of the existence of any separate traditions or lineages under the name of \"Dzogchen\" outside of Tibet, and it may be a unique Tibetan teaching, drawing on multiple influences, including both native Tibetan non-Buddhist beliefs and Chinese and Indian Buddhist teachings.\n\nAccording to van Schaik, the term \"atiyoga\" first appeared in the 8th century, in an Indian tantra called \"Sarvabuddhasamāyoga\". In this text, \"Anuyoga\" is the stage of yogic bliss, while \"Atiyoga\" is the stage of the realization of the \"nature of reality.\" According to van Schaik, this fits with the three stages of deity yoga as described in a work attributed to Padmasambhava: development (kye), perfection (dzog) and great perfection (dzogchen). \"Atiyoga\" here is not a vehicle, but a stage or aspect of yogic practice. In Tibetan sources, until the 10th century \"Atiyoga\" is characterized as a \"mode\" (\"tshul\") or a \"view\" (\"lta ba\"), which is to be applied within deity yoga.\n\nAccording to van Schaik, the concept of dzogchen, \"great perfection,\" first appeared as the culmination of the meditative practice of deity yoga around the 8th century. The term \"dzogchen\" was likely taken from the \"Guhyagarbhatantra\". This tantra describes, as other tantras, how in the creation stage one generates a visualisation of a deity and its mandala. This is followed by the completion stage, in which one dissolves the deity and the mandala into oneself, merging oneself with the deity. In the \"Guhyagarbhatantra\" and some other tantras, there follows a stage called \"rdzogs chen\", in which one rests in the natural state of the innately luminous and pure mind.\n\nIn the 9th and 10th centuries deity yoga was contextualized in Dzogchen in terms of nonconceptuality, nonduality and the spontaneous presence of the enlightened state. Some Dunhuang texts dated at the 10th century show the first signs of a developing nine vehicles system. Nevertheless, \"Anuyoga\" and \"Atiyoga\" are still regarded then as modes of \"Mahāyoga\" practice. Only in the 11th century came \"Atiyoga\" to be threatened as a separate vehicle, at least in the newly emerging Nyingma tradition. Nevertheless, even in the 13th century (and later) the idea of Atiyoga as a vehicle was controversial in other Buddhist schools. Van Schaik quotes Sakya Pandita as writing, in his \"Distinguishing the Three Vows\":\nMost of the early Dzogchen literature, which are claimed to be \"translations\", are original compositions from a much later date than the 8th century. According to Germano, the Dzogchen-tradition first appeared in the first half of the 9th century, with a series of short texts attributed to Indian saints. They were codified into a canon of eighteen texts which were referred to as \"mind oriented\" (\"sems phyogs\"), and later became known as \"mind series\" (sems de\"). \n\nThe mind series reflect the teachings of early Dzogchen, which rejected all forms of practice, and asserted that striving for liberation would simply create more delusion. One has simply to recognize the nature of one's own mind, which is naturally empty (\"stong pa\"), luminous (\"'od gsal ba\"), and pure. According to Germano, its characteristic language, which is marked by naturalism and negation, is already pronounced in some Indian tantras. Nevertheless, these texts are still inextricably bound up with tantric Mahayoga, with its visualisations of deities and mandals, and complex initiations.\n\nDuring the 9th and 10th centuries these texts, which represent the dominant form of the tradition in the 9th and 10th centuries, were gradually transformed into full-fledged tantras, culminating in the Kulayarāja Tantra (\"kun byed rgyal po\", \"The All-Creating King\"), in the last half of the 10th or the first half of the 11th century. According to Germano, this tantra was historically perhaps the most important and widely quoted of all Dzogchen scriptures.\n\nEarly Dzogchen was completely transformed in the 11th century, with the renaissance of Tibetan culture occurring from the late 10th century to the early 12th century,known as the later dissemination of Buddhism. New techniques and doctrines were introduced from India, resulting in new schools of Tibetan Buddhism, and radical new developments in Dzogchen doctrine and practice, with a growing emphasis on meditative practice. The older Bon and Nyingma traditions incorporated these new influences through the process of Treasure revelation. Especially the \"yogini\" tantras were influential, involving horrific imagery and violent rituals, erotic imagery, and sexual and somatic practices. These influences are reflected in the rise of subtle body representations and practices, new pantheons of wrathful and erotic Buddhas, increasingly antinomium rhetorics, and a focus on death-motifs.\n\nThese influences were incorporated in several movements such as the \"Secret Cycle\" (\"gsang skor\"), \"Ultra Pith\" (\"yang tig\"), \"Brahmin's tradition\" (\"bram ze'i lugs\"), the \"Space Class Series,\" and especially the \"Instruction Class series\", which culminated in the \"Seminal Heart\" (\"snying thig\"), which emerged in the late 11th and early 12th century.\n\nThe \"Seminal Heart\" belongs to the \"Instruction series.\" The main texts of the instruction series are the so-called seventeen tantras and the two \"seminal heart\" collections, namely the \"bi ma snying thig\" (\"Vima Nyingthig\", \"Seminal Heart of Vimalamitra\") and the \"mkha' 'gro snying thig\" (\"Khandro nyingthig\", \"Seminal Heart of the Dakini\"). The \"Seminal Heart of Vimalamitra\" is attributed to Vimalamitra, but was largely composed by their discoverers, in the 11th and 12th century. The \"Seminal Heart of the Dakini\" was produced by Tsultrim Dorje (\"Tshul khrims rdo rje\")(1291-1315/17).\n\nThe Seminal Heart teachings became the dominant Dzogchen-teachings, but was also criticized by conservative strands within the Nyingma-school. The most important Nyingma of the 12th century, Nyangrel Nyingma Özer (\"Nyang ral nyi ma 'od zer\", 1136-1204\n) developed his \"Crown Pith\" (\"spyi ti\") to reassert the older traditions in a new form. His writings, which were also presented as revelations, are marked by a relative absence of \"yogini\" tantra influence, and transcend the prescriptions of specific practices, as well as the rhetoric of violence, sexuality and transgression.\n\nA pivotal figure in the history of Dzogchen was Longchenpa Rabjampa (1308-1364, possibly 1369). He systematized the Seminal Heart teachings and other collections of texts that were circulating at the time in Tibet, in the Seven Treasuries (\"mdzod bdun\"), the \"Trilogy of Natural Freedom\" (\"rang grol skor gsum\"), and the Trilogy of Natural Ease (\"ngal gso skor gsum\"). Longchenpa refined the terminology and interpretations, and integrated the Seminal Heart teachings with broader Mahayana literature.\n\nMalcolm Smith notes that Longchenpa's \"Tshig don mdzod,\" the \"Treasury of Subjects,\" was preceded by several other texts by other authors dealing with the same topics. Smith mentions the 12th century text \"The Eleven Subjects of The Great Perfection\" by Nyi 'bum. This itself was derived from the eighth and final chapter of the commentary to The String of Pearls Tantra.\n\nNyi 'bum's \"Eleven Subjects\" is the basis for Longchenpa's \"Treasury of Subjects\" as well as Rigzin Godem's \"The Aural Lineage of Vimalamitra\" from the Gongpa Zangthal.\n\nAccording to Smith, Nyi 'bum's \"Eleven Subjects\" provided the outline upon which Longchenpa's \"Treasury of Subjects\" was based, using the general sequence of citations, and even copying or reworking entire passages. According to Smith, Nyi 'bum's \"Eleven Subjects\" was transmitted in a close circle of disciples, with very little outside contact, whereas Longchenpa's \"Treasury of Subjects\" contains responses to 14th century scholastic objections to Dzogchen.\n\nIn subsequent centuries more additions followed, including the \"Profound Dharma of Self-Liberation through the Intention of the Peaceful and Wrathful Ones\" (\"kar-gling zhi-khro\") by Karma Lingpa, (1326–1386), popularly known as \"Karma Lingpa's Peaceful and Wrathful Ones\", which includes the two texts of the \"bar-do thos-grol\", the \"Tibetan Book of the Dead\".\n\nOther important termas are \"The Penetrating Wisdom\" (\"dgongs pa zang thal\"), revealed by Rinzin Gödem (\"rig 'dzin rgod ldem\", 1337-1409); and \"The Nucleus of Ati's Profound Meaning\" (\"rDzogs pa chen po a ti zab don snying po\") by Terdak Lingpa (\"gter bdag gling pa\", 1646-1714).\n\nParticularly influential of these later revelations are the works of Jigme Lingpa (1730–1798). His Longchen Nyingthig (\"klong chen snying thig\"), \"The Heart-essence of the Vast Expanse\" or \"The Seminal Heart of the Great Matrix\", is a hidden teaching from Padmasambhava which was revealed by Jigme Lingpa. The Longchen Nyingthig is said to be the essence of the \"Vima Nyingthig\" and \"Khandro Nyingthig\", the \"Early Nyingthig,\", and has become known as the \"later Nyingthig\". It is one of the most widely practiced teachings in the Nyingmapa school. Patrul Rinpoche (1808–1887) wrote down Jigme Lingpa's pre-liminary practices into a book called \"The Words of My Perfect Teacher\".\n\nIn the early 20th century the first publications on Tibetan Buddhism appeared in the west. An early publication on Dzogchen was the so-called \"Tibetan Book of the Dead,\" edited by W.Y. Evans-Wentz, which became highly popular, but contains many mistakes in translation and interpretation. Dzogchen has been popularized in the western world by the Tibetan diaspora, starting with the exile of 1959. Well-known teachers include Sogyal Rinpoche and Namkhai Norbu. The 14th Dalai Lama is also a qualified Dzogchen teacher.\n\nChögyam Trungpa coined the term \"Maha Ati\" for Dzogchen, a master of the Kagyu and Nyingma lineages of Tibetan Vajrayana Buddhism. He generally preferred to introduce Sanskrit rather than Tibetan terms to his students and felt \"Maha Ati\" was the closest equivalent for Dzogchen, although he acknowledged it was an unorthodox choice. The coinage does not follow the sandhi rules which would be rendered as mahāti. This serves as an indication of its pedigree as a calque.\n\nDzogchen has also been taught and practiced in the Kagyu lineage, beginning with the Third Karmapa, Rangjung Dorje (1284–1339). \n\nThe Drikung Kagyu also have a tradition of Dzogchen teachings, the \"yangzab dzogchen\". \n\nLozang Gyatso, 5th Dalai Lama (1617–1682), Thubten Gyatso, 13th Dalai Lama ( 1876–1933), and Tenzin Gyatso, 14th Dalai Lama (present), all Gelugpas, are also noted Dzogchen masters, although their adoption of the practice of Dzogchen has been a source of controversy among more conservative members of the Gelug tradition.\n\nTibetan Buddhism developed five main schools. The Madhyamika philosophy obtained a central position in the Nyingma, Kagyu, Sakya and Gelugpa schools. The Jonang school, which until recently was thought to be extinct, developed a different interpretation of ultimate truth.\nDzogchen texts use unique terminology to describe the Dzogchen view. Some of these terms deal with the different elements and features of the mind. The generic term for consciousness is \"shes pa\", and includes the six sense consciousnesses. Different forms of shes pa include \"ye shes\" (Jñāna, 'pristine consciousness') and \"shes rab\" (prajñā, wisdom). According to Sam van Schaik, two significant terms used in Dzogchen literature is the Ground (\"gzhi\") and Gnosis (\"rig pa\"), which represent the \"ontological and gnoseological aspects of the nirvanic state\" respectively. Dzogchen literature also describes nirvana as the \"expanse\" (\"klong\" or \"dbyings\") or the \"true expanse\" (\"chos dbyings\", Sanskrit: Dharmadhatu). The term Dharmakaya is also often associated with these terms in Dzogchen, as explained by Tulku Urgyen:\nDharmakaya is like space. You cannot say there is any limit to space in any direction. No matter how far you go, you never reach a point where space stops and that is the end of space. Space is infinite in all directions; so is dharmakaya. Dharmakaya is all-pervasive and totally infinite, beyond any confines or limitations. This is so for the dharmakaya of all buddhas. There is no individual dharmakaya for each buddha, as there is no individual space for each country.\n\nAccording to Malcolm Smith, the Dzogchen view is also based on the Indian Buddhist Buddha-nature doctrine of the Tathāgatagarbha sūtras. According to the 14th Dalai Lama the Ground is the Buddha-nature, the nature of mind which is emptiness. According to Rinpoche Thrangu, Rangjung Dorje (1284–1339), the third Karmapa Lama (head of the Karma Kagyu) and Nyingma lineage holder, also stated that the Ground is Buddha-nature. According to Rinpoche Thrangu, \"whether one does Mahamudra or Dzogchen practice, buddha nature is the foundation from which both of these meditations develop.\"\n\nA key concept in Dzogchen is the 'basis', 'ground' or 'primordial state' (Tibetan: \"gzhi\", Sanskrit: \"sthana\"), also called the general ground (\"spyi gzhi\") or the original ground (\"gdod ma'i gzhi\"). The basis is the original state \"before realization produced buddhas and nonrealization produced sentient beings\". It is atemporal and unchanging and yet it is \"noetically potent\", giving rise to mind, delusion and wisdom. The basis is also associated with the term Dharmata.\n\nThe basis has three qualities:\n\nThe text, \"An Aspirational prayer for the Ground, Path and Result\" defines the three aspects of the basis thus:\n\nMoreover, the basis is associated with the primordial or original Buddhahood, also called Samantabhadra, which is said to be beyond time itself and hence Buddhahood is not something to be gained, but an act of recognizing what is already immanent in all sentient beings. Likewise, this view of the basis stems from the Indian Buddha-nature theory. Other terms used to describe the basis include unobstructed (\"ma 'gags pa\"), universal (\"kun khyab\") and omnipresent.\n\n\"Rigpa\" (Sk: \"Vidya\", \"knowledge\") is a central concept in Dzogchen which means \"unconfused knowledge of the basis that is its own state\". It is \"reflexively self-aware primordial wisdom,\" which is self-reflexively aware of itself as unbounded wholeness. The analogy given by Dzogchen masters is that one's true nature is like a mirror which reflects with complete openness, but is not affected by the reflections; or like a crystal ball that takes on the colour of the material on which it is placed without itself being changed. The knowledge that ensues from recognizing this mirror-like clarity (which cannot be found by searching nor identified) is called rigpa.\n\nAccording to Alexander Berzin, there are three aspects of rigpa:\n\nAs Berzin notes, all of the good qualities (\"yon-tan\") of a Buddha are already \"are innate (\"lhan-skyes\") to rigpa, which means that they arise simultaneously with each moment of rigpa, and primordial (\"gnyugs-ma\"), in the sense of having no beginning.\n\nSam van Schaik translates rigpa as \"gnosis\" which he glosses as \"a form of awareness aligned to the nirvanic state\". He notes that other definitions of rigpa include \"free from elaborations\" (\"srpos bral\"), \"non conceptual\" (\"rtog med\") and \"transcendent of the intellect\" (\"blo 'das\"). It is also often paired with emptiness, as in the contraction \"rig stong\" (gnosis-emptiness).\n\nJohn W. Pettit notes that \"rigpa\" is seen as beyond affirmation and negation, acceptance and rejection, and therefore it is known as \"natural\" (\"ma bcos pa\") and \"effortless\" (\"rtsol med\") once recognized. Because of this, Dzogchen is also known as the pinnacle and final destination of all paths.\n\n\"Ma Rigpa\" (avidyā) is the opposite of rigpa or knowledge. \"Ma rigpa\" is ignorance or unawareness, the failure to recognize the nature of the basis. An important theme in Dzogchen texts is explaining how ignorance arises from the basis or Dharmata, which is associated with \"ye shes\" or 'pristine consciousness'. Automatically arising unawareness (\"lhan-skyes ma-rigpa\") exists because the basis is seen having a natural cognitive potentiality and luminosity (\"gdangs\"), which is the ground for samsara and nirvana. When consciousness fails to recognize that all phenomena arise as the creativity (\"rtsal\") of the nature of mind and misses its own luminescence or does not \"recognize its own face\", sentient beings arise instead of Buddhas. As explained by Tulku Urgyen:\n\nIn the case of an ignorant sentient being the mind is called empty cognizance suffused with ignorance (marigpa). The mind of all the Buddhas is called empty cognizance suffused with awareness (rigpa).\n\nAccording to Vimalamitra's \"Illuminating Lamp\", delusion arises because sentient beings \"lapse towards external mentally apprehended objects\". This external grasping is then said to produce sentient beings out of dependent origination. This dualistic conceptualizing process which leads to samsara is termed manas as well as \"awareness moving away from the ground\".\n\nAccording to Sam van Schaik, there is a certain tension in Dzogchen thought (as in other forms of Buddhism) between the idea that samsara and nirvana are immanent within each other and yet are still different. In texts such as the Longchen Nyingtig for example, the basis and rigpa are presented as being \"intrinsically innate to the individual mind\". The \"Great Perfection Tantra of the Expanse of Samantabhadra’s Wisdom\" states:\n\nIf you think that he who is called “the heart essence of all buddhas, the Primordial Lord, the noble Victorious One, Samantabhadra” is contained in a mindstream separate from the ocean-like realm of sentient beings, then this is a nihilistic view in which samsara and nirvana remain unconnected.\n\nLikewise, Longchenpa (12th century), writes in his \"Illuminating Sunlight\":\n\nEvery type of experiential content belonging to samsara and nirvana has, as its very basis, a natural state that is a spontaneously present buddha—a dimension of purity and perfection, that is perfect by nature. This natural state is not created by a profound buddha nor by a clever sentient being. Independent of causality, causes did not produce it and conditions can not make it perish. This state is one of self-existing wakefulness, defying all that words can describe, in a way that also transcends the reach of the intellect and thoughts. It is within the nonarising vastness of such a basic natural state that all phenomena belonging to samsara and nirvana are, essentially and without any exception, a state of buddha—purity and perfection.\n\nThis lack of difference between these two states, their non-dual (\"advaya\") nature, corresponds with the idea that change from one to another doesn't happen due to an ordinary process of causation but is an instantaneous and perfect 'self-recognition' (\"rang ngo sprod\") of what is already innately (\"lhan-skyes\") there. According to John W. Pettit, this idea has its roots in Indian texts such as Nagarjuna's Mulamadhyamakakarika, which states that samsara and nirvana are not separate and that there is no difference between the \"doer\", the \"going\" and the \"going to\" (i.e. the ground, path and fruit).\n\nIn spite of this emphasis on immanence, Dzogchen texts do indicate a subtle difference between terms associated with delusion (\"kun gzhi\" or \"alaya\", \"sems\" or mind) and terms associated with full enlightenment (\"dharmakaya\" and \"rigpa\"). The Alaya and Ālayavijñāna are associated with karmic imprints (\"vasana\") of the mind and with mental afflictions (\"klesa\"). The \"alaya for habits\" is the basis (\"gzhi\") along with ignorance (\"marigpa\") which includes all sorts of obscuring habits and grasping tendencies.\n\nThese terms stem from Indian Yogacara texts, such as the Ratnagotravibhāga.\n\nKoppl notes that although later Nyingma authors such as Mipham attempted to harmonize the view of Dzogchen with Madhyamaka, the earlier Nyingma author Rongzom Chokyi Zangpo did not. Rongzom held that the views of sutra such as Madhyamaka were inferior to that of tantra. In contrast, the 14th Dalai Lama, in his book Dzogchen, concludes that Madhyamaka and Dzogchen come down to the same point. The view of reality obtained through Madhyamaka philosophy and the Dzogchen view of Rigpa can be regarded as identical. With regard to the practice in these traditions, however, at the initial stages there do seem certain differences in practice and emphasis.\n\nDzogchen is a secret teaching emphasizing the rigpa view. It is a secret from those who are incapable of receiving it. The student can properly receive it with direct in-person realization under a guru's instruction. It is accessible to all; however, it is generally considered an advanced practice because safety from generating an incorrect view necessitates preliminary practices with a teacher's empowerment. \n\nDzogchen teachings emphasize naturalness, spontaneity and simplicity. Although Dzogchen is portrayed as being distinct from tantra, it has incorporated many concepts and practices from tantric Buddhism. It embraces a widely varied array of traditions, that range from a systematic rejection of all tantric practices, to a full incorporation of tantric practices.\n\nThe \"Seminal Heart of Vimalamitra\" epitomized the Dzogchen teaching in three principles, known as the Three Statements of Garab Dorje (Tsik Sum Né Dek). They give in short the development a student has to undergo:\n\nIn subsequent centuries these teachings were expanded, most notably in the Longchen Nyingthig by Jigme Lingpa (1730-1798). His systematisation is the most widely used Dzogchen-teaching nowadays.\n\nThe dzogchen teachings consist of vast anthologies of practices presented as preliminary and auxiliary contemplative techniques, including standard Buddhist meditation techniques and tantra practices which have been integrated into Dzogchen.\n\nLongchenpa, in \"Finding Comfort and Ease in Meditation\" (\"bsam gtan ngal gso\"), the second text of the Trilogy of Natural Ease (\"ngal gso skor gsum\"), and its auto-commentary the \"Shing rta rnam dag\", uses the standard triad of meditative experiences (\"nyams\") to structure the text and the practices: bliss (\"bde ba\"), radiance/clarity (\"gsal ba\"), and non-conceptuality (\"mi rtog pa\"). This triad is also presented as preliminaries, main practice, and concluding phase. The preliminaries are further divided into:\n\nThis systematisation contextualized the system in terms of Tibetan Buddhism, while simultaneously relegating these preliminaries to a lower status, while emphasizing their necessity. Longchenpa couples meditation with Guru yoga in these preliminaries.\n\nThe teachings based on the \"Longchen Nyingthig\" are divided into preliminary practices and main practices. Alexander Berzin explicitly mentions meditative practices as a preliminary of the main practice.\n\nA general overview gives the following:\n\nThe \"Ngondro\", preliminary practices, consist of outer preliminaries and inner preliminaries.\n\nAccording to Tsoknyi Rinpoche, before one starts with the Dzogchen-practices empowerment is necessary. This plants the \"seeds of realization\" within the present body, speech and mind. Empowerment \"invests us with the ability to be liberated into the already present ground.\" The practices bring the seeds to maturation, resulting in the qualities of enlightened body, speech and mind.\n\nThe outer preliminaries are as follows:\n\nThe inner preliminaries are as follows: \n\nAccording to Berzin, receiving empowerment (\"dbang\", initiation) and keeping the vows conferred at that time is a necessary step to move on to the main practice. This activates our Buddha-mind, by consciously generating a state of mind that is accompanied by understanding. Alexander Berzin further notes:\n\nWith the influence of tantra, and the systematisations of Longchenpa, the main Dzogchen practices came to be preceded by preliminary (meditative) practices.\n\nIn the text \"Finding Comfort and Ease in the Nature of Mind\" (\"sems nyid ngal gso\"), which is part of the Trilogy of Natural Ease (\"ngal gso skor gsum\"), Longchenpa arranges 141 contemplative practices, split into three sections: exoteric Buddhism (92), tantra (92), and the Great Perfection (27). Most of these practices are \"technique-free.\" The typical Buddhist meditations are relegated to the preliminary phase, while the main meditative practices are typical \"direct\" approaches.\n\nLongchenpa includes the perfection phase techniques of channels, winds and nuclei into the main and concluding phases. The \"concluding phase\" includes discussions of new contemplative techniques, which aid the practice of the main phase.\n\nThe Great Perfection practices as described by Jigme Lingpa consist of preliminary practices, specific for the Great Perfection practice, and the main practice.\n\nJigme Lingpa mentions two kinds of preliminary practices, \"'khor 'das ru shan dbye ba\", \"making a gap between samsara and nirvana,\" and \"sbyong ba\".\n\n\"Ru shan\" is a series of visualisation and recitation exercises, derived from the Seminal Heart tradition. The name reflects the dualism of the distinctions between mind and insight, ālaya and dharmakāya. Longchenpa places this practice in the \"enhancement\" (\"bogs dbyung\") section of his concluding phase. It describes a practice \"involving going to a solitary spot and acting out whatever comes to your mind.\"\n\n\"Sbyong ba\" is a variety of teachings for training (\"sbyong ba\") the body, speech and mind. The training of the body entails instructions for physical posture. The training of speech mainly entails recitation, especially of the syllable \"hūm\". The training of the mind is a Madhyamaka-like analysis of the concept of the mind, to make clear that mind cannot arise from anywhere, reside anywhere,or go anywhere. They are in effect an establishment of emptiness by means of the intellect.\n\nAccording to Alexander Berzin, after the preliminary practices follow meditative practices, in which the practitioners works with the three aspects of rigpa.\n\nThe three samadhis (ting-nge-’dzin gsum) are practiced, in which the practitioners works, in the imagination, with the three aspects of rigpa:\n\nThe Dzogchen meditation practices also include a series of exercises known as \"Semdzin\" (\"sems dzin\"), which literally means \"to hold the mind\" or \"to fix mind.\" They include a whole range of methods, including fixation, breathing, and different body postures, all aiming to bring one into the state of contemplation.\n\nThe practice of Trekchö (\"khregs chod\"), \"cutting through solidity\", reflects the earliest developments of Dzogchen, with its admonition against practice. In this practice one first identifies, and then sustains recognition of, one's own innately pure, empty awareness. Students receive pointing-out instruction (\"sems khrid\", \"ngos sprod\") in which a teacher introduces the student to the nature of his or her mind. According to Tsoknyi Rinpoche, these instructions are received after the preliminary practices, though there's also a tradition to give them before the preliminary practices.\n\nJigme Lingpa divides the trekchö practice into ordinary and extraordinary instructions. The ordinary section comprises the rejection of the \"all is mind – mind is empty\" approach, which is a conceptual establishment of emptiness. Jigme Lingpa's extraordinary instructions give the instructions on the breakthrough proper, which consist of the setting out of the view (\"lta ba\"), the doubts and errors that may occur in practice, and some general instructions thematized as \"the four ways of being at leisure\" (\"cog bzhag\"). The \"setting out of the view\" tries to point the reader toward a direct recognition of rigpa, insisting upon the immanence of rigpa, and dismissive of meditation and effort.). Insight leads to \"nyamshag\", \"being present in the state of clarity and emptiness\".\n\n\"Tögal\" (\"thod rgal\") means \"spontaneous presence\", \"direct crossing\", \"direct crossing of spontaneous presence\", or \"direct transcendence. The literal meaning is \"to proceed directly to the goal without having to go through intermediate steps.\"\n\n\"Tögal\" is also called \"the practice of vision\", or \"the practice of the Clear Light (\"od-gsal\")\". It entails progressing through the Four Visions. The practices engage the subtle body of psychic channels, winds and drops (\"rtsa rlung thig le\"). The practices aim at generating a spontaneous flow of luminous, rainbow-colored images that gradually expand in extent and complexity.\n\n\"Tögal\" is an innovative practice, and reflects the innovations of the Manngede cycles in Dzogchen, and the incorporation of complex tantric techniques and doctrines. They are an adaptation of Tantric \"perfection phase\" techniques (\"rdzogs rim\"), as outlined in the early-eleventh-century Indian Tantric \"Kalachakra\" cycle, \"The Wheel of Time\", which was probably a direct inspiration for the Seminal Heart.\n\nLhun grub practice may lead to full enlightenment and the self-liberation of the human body into a rainbow body at the moment of death, when all the fixation and grasping has been exhausted. It is a nonmaterial body of light with the ability to exist and abide wherever and whenever as pointed by one's compassion. It is a manifestation of the Sambhogakāya.\n\nSome exceptional practitioners such as Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra are held to have realized a higher type of rainbow body without dying. Having completed the four visions before death, the individual focuses on the lights that surround the fingers. His or her physical body self-liberates into a nonmaterial body of light (a Sambhogakāya) with the ability to exist and abide wherever and whenever as pointed by one's compassion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338466", "title": "Eckhart Tolle", "text": "Eckhart Tolle\n\nEckhart Tolle ( ; , born Ulrich Leonard Tölle, February 16, 1948) is a spiritual teacher. He is a German-born resident of Canada best known as the author of \"The Power of Now\" and \"\". In 2008, \"The New York Times\" called Tolle \"the most popular spiritual author in the United States\". In 2011, he was listed by \"Watkins Review\" as the most spiritually influential person in the world. Tolle is not identified with any particular religion, but he has been influenced by a wide range of spiritual works.\n\nTolle said he was depressed for much of his life until age 29, when he underwent an \"inner transformation\". He then spent several years wandering \"in a state of deep bliss\" before becoming a spiritual teacher. He moved to Vancouver, British Columbia in 1995 and currently divides his time between Canada and California. He began writing his first book, \"The Power of Now,\" in 1997 and it reached \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list in 2000.\n\n\"The Power of Now\" and \"A New Earth\" sold an estimated three million and five million copies respectively in North America by 2009. In 2008, approximately 35 million people participated in a series of 10 live webinars with Tolle and television talk show host Oprah Winfrey. In 2016, Tolle was named in Oprah's \"SuperSoul 100\" list of visionaries and influential leaders.\n\nBorn Ulrich Leonard Tölle in Lünen, a small town located north of Dortmund in the Ruhr Valley, Germany in 1948, Tolle describes his childhood as unhappy, particularly his early childhood in Germany. His parents fought and eventually separated, and he felt alienated from a hostile school environment. He also experienced considerable fear and anxiety growing up in post-war Germany, where he would play in bombed-out buildings. He later stated that pain \"was in the energy field of the country\". At the age of 13, he moved to Spain to live with his father. His father did not insist that he attend high school, so Tolle elected to study literature, astronomy and various languages at home.\n\nAt the age of 15, he read several books written by the German mystic Joseph Anton Schneiderfranken, also known as Bô Yin Râ. Tolle has said he responded \"very deeply\" to those books.\n\nAt the age of 19, he moved to England and for three years taught German and Spanish at a London school for language studies. Troubled by \"depression, anxiety and fear\", he began \"searching for answers\" in his life.\n\nIn his early twenties, he decided to pursue his search by studying philosophy, psychology, and literature, and enrolled in the University of London. After graduating, he was offered a scholarship to do postgraduate research at Cambridge University, which he entered in 1977 but dropped out soon after.\n\nOne night in 1977, at the age of 29, after having suffered from long periods of depression, Tolle says he experienced an \"inner transformation\". That night he awakened from his sleep, suffering from feelings of depression that were \"almost unbearable,\" but then experienced a life-changing epiphany. Recounting the experience, he says, \n\nTolle recalls going out for a walk in London the next morning, and finding that \"everything was miraculous, deeply peaceful. Even the traffic.\" The feeling continued, and he began to feel a strong underlying sense of peace in any situation. He stopped studying for his doctorate, and for a period of about two years after this he spent much of his time sitting, \"in a state of deep bliss,\" on park benches in Russell Square, Central London, \"watching the world go by.\" He stayed with friends, in a Buddhist monastery, or otherwise slept rough on Hampstead Heath. His family thought him \"irresponsible, even insane.\" He changed his first name from Ulrich to Eckhart; by some reports this was in homage to the German philosopher and mystic, Meister Eckhart. A 2012 interview article states that he saw the name Eckhart on one of a pile of books in a dream, and knew he had written the book; soon after in real life he ran into a psychic friend who called him Eckhart out of nowhere, so he changed his name.\n\nAfter this period, former Cambridge students and people he had met by chance began to ask Tolle about his beliefs. He began working as a counselor and spiritual teacher. Students continued to come to him over the next five years. He relocated to Glastonbury, a major centre of alternative living. In 1995, after having visited the West Coast of North America several times, he settled in Vancouver, British Columbia, where he met his future wife, Kim Eng.\n\nTolle's first book, \"The Power of Now\", was first published in 1997 by Namaste Publishing. Only 3,000 copies were published of the first edition. He said he and his friends personally delivered some copies of the book to bookstores in Vancouver and the surrounding area. The book was republished on a large scale by New World Library in 1999. In 2000, Oprah Winfrey recommended it in her magazine, \"O\". In August 2000, it reached The New York Times Best Seller list for Hardcover Advice. After two more years, it was number one on that list. By 2008, the book had been translated from English into 33 languages; since then, it has been translated into Arabic. He published his second book, \"Stillness Speaks\", in 2003. In July 2011, \"The Power of Now\" appeared on the list for the 10 best selling Paperback Advice books for the 102nd time.\n\nIn 2005, Tolle published his third book, \"A New Earth\", which assumed the number one position on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list several times between March and September 2008. By the end of 2008, it reached the list for the 46th time. The high sales of \"A New Earth\" in that year followed its selection by Oprah Winfrey for her book club in January. In the four weeks following the announcement, 3.5 million copies of the book were shipped. Tolle partnered with her to produce a series of webinar sessions beginning in May 2008. The weekly webinar sessions included discussions between Winfrey and himself, silent meditations, and questions from viewers via Skype. Each webinar focused on a specific chapter of \"A New Earth\". The third webinar attracted more than 11 million viewers.\n\nHe formed a company to sell products related to his teachings called Eckhart Teachings. He created a website called Eckhart Tolle TV, with streaming video of monthly group meditations and other videos. He gives speeches and workshops in English and occasionally in German or Spanish. He also travels for various speaking engagements, such as seminars and retreats. In a 2003 interview with the \"Telegraph Magazine\", Tolle indicated that he had no intention of creating \"a heavy commercial structure\", nor of setting up an ashram or centre. He believes one \"could develop organically\" and said \"one needs to be careful that the organization doesn’t become self-serving\".\n\nIn September 2009, he appeared with the Dalai Lama and other speakers at the Vancouver Peace Summit. The same year he published \"Guardians of Being\", a picture book illustrated by Patrick McDonnell, the creator of the comic strip \"Mutts\". \n\nIn 2017 British contemporary artist Alexander de Cadenet interviewed Tolle about art and the spiritual dimension. Tolle commented on his interest in landscape photography and said \"both art and nature can serve as portals into the transcendent dimension, your essence identity.\" In 2018 Watkins Mind body Spirit Magazine produced the first ever publications of Tolle's nature photography. \n\nTolle writes in the introduction to his second book, \"Stillness Speaks\": A true spiritual teacher does not have anything to teach in the conventional sense of the word, does not have anything to give or add to you, such as new information, beliefs, or rules of conduct. The only function of such a teacher is to help you remove that which separates you from the truth ... The words are no more than signposts.\n\nHe says that his book, \"The Power of Now\", is \"a restatement for our time of that one timeless spiritual teaching, the essence of all religions\". He writes that religions \"have become so overlaid with extraneous matter that their spiritual substance has become almost completely obscured\", that they have become \"to a large extent ... divisive rather than unifying forces\" and become \"themselves part of the insanity\".\n\nTolle writes that \"the most significant thing that can happen to a human being [is] the separation process of thinking and awareness\" and that awareness is \"the space in which thoughts exist\". Tolle says that \"the primary cause of unhappiness is never the situation but your thoughts about it\".\n\nAccording to his official website, \"at the core of Tolle's teachings lies the transformation of consciousness, a spiritual awakening that he sees as the next step in human evolution. An essential aspect of this awakening consists in transcending our ego-based state of consciousness. This is a prerequisite not only for personal happiness but also for the ending of violent conflict endemic on our planet\".\n\nIn his book \"A New Earth\", he describes a major aspect of the human dysfunction as \"ego\" or an \"illusory sense of self\" based on unconscious identification with one's memories and thoughts, and another major aspect he calls \"pain-body\" or \"an accumulation of old emotional pain\".\n\nHe often talks about the relevance of figures in intellectual or popular culture. In \"A New Earth\", he quotes René Descartes, Jean-Paul Sartre, Friedrich Nietzsche, William Shakespeare and Albert Einstein. \nHe has spoken of movies such as \"Groundhog Day\", \"American Beauty\", \"The Horse Whisperer\", \"Gran Torino\", \"Titanic\", \"Avatar\", \"Being There\", and \"Forrest Gump\", and musicians such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, The Beatles and The Rolling Stones. He arranged an album of music in 2008 entitled \"Music to Quiet the Mind\" including work composed by Erik Satie, Claude Debussy and The Beatles, and music by contemporary artists such as Deva Premal, Jeff Johnson, and Steve Roach.\n\nAccording to a 2009 article in \"The New York Times\", Tolle is \"not identified with any religion, but uses teachings from Zen Buddhism, Sufism, Hinduism and the Bible\". He has said: \"I feel actually that the work I do is a coming together of the teaching 'stream', if you want to call it that, of [Jiddu] Krishnamurti and Ramana Maharshi.\" Tolle has mentioned texts such as the \"Tao Te Ching\", the \"Bhagavad Gita\" and other Hindu texts, the Buddhist texts, the Old Testament, the New Testament, and \"A Course in Miracles\"; he has mentioned various individuals such as Zoroaster, Laozi, Mahavira, Gautama Buddha, Heraclitus, Parmenides, Jesus, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, Rumi, Meister Eckhart, Hafiz, Linji Yixuan, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Carl Jung; and he has emphasized the mystical schools within religions such as Gnosticism in Christianity, Sufism in Islam, Hasidism and Kabbalah in Judaism, Advaita Vedanta in Hinduism, and Zen and Dzogchen in Buddhism.\n\nIn 2008, an article in \"The New York Times\" referred to him as \"the most popular spiritual author in the [United States]\". In 2011, the Watkins Review put him at number 1 in a list of \"The 100 Most Spiritually Influential Living People\". By 2009, total sales of \"The Power of Now\" and \"A New Earth\" in North America had been estimated at three million and five million copies respectively.\n\nThe books have received a wide range of praise and criticism. One book reviewer characterized \"The Power of Now\" as \"awash in spiritual mumbo-jumbo\", while another reviewer wrote, \"Tolle's clear writing and the obvious depth of his experience and insight set it apart\".\n\nSome critics characterize his books as unoriginal or derivative. A 2009 \"The New York Times\" article said he is \"hardly the first writer to tap into the American longing for meaning and success\". Sara Nelson, the editor-in-chief of \"Publishers Weekly\", said Tolle's writings have been successful due to surging public interest in books that tell you how to be happier, more peaceful and more successful. James Robinson in \"The Observer\" called his writings \"a mix of pseudo-science, New Age philosophy, and teaching borrowed from established religions\".\n\nHowever, others praise his re-working and synthesis of traditions. New Age writer William Bloom wrote that \"Tolle is offering a very contemporary synthesis of Eastern spiritual teaching, which is normally so clothed in arcane language that it is incomprehensible\", thereby providing \"a valuable perspective on Western culture\". Publisher Judith Kendra says, \"The ideas [that Tolle is] talking about have been in existence for thousands of years in both Eastern texts and with the great Western mystics, but he's able to make them understandable\". Musician Annie Lennox said he \"has some kind of special quality that I've never encountered before\".\n\nChristian scholars have differing opinions on the compatibility of Tolle's ideas with Christianity.\n\nJames Beverley, professor of Christian Thought and Ethics at the evangelical Tyndale Seminary in Toronto, says that Tolle's worldview \"is at odds with central Christian convictions\" and that \"Tolle denies the core of Christianity by claiming there is no ultimate distinction between humans and God and Jesus\". John Stackhouse, a professor of theology and culture at evangelical Regent College in Vancouver, says that he \"gives a certain segment of the population exactly what they want: a sort of supreme religion that purports to draw from all sorts of lesser, that is, established religions\". Stackhouse has described him as one of several spiritual teachers who \"purport to have investigated the world’s religions (quite a claim) and found them wanting, who routinely subject those religions to withering criticism, and who then champion their own views as superior to all these alternatives\".\n\nConversely, Stafford Betty, teacher for Religious Studies at California State University, Bakersfield finds common ground between Tolle's worldview and that of Christian mystics. He notes that \"one of the key elements in Tolle's teaching is that deep within the mind is absolute stillness in which one can experience 'the joy of Being'\". Roman Catholic priest and theologian Richard Rohr credits Tolle for helping to reintroduce ancient Christian mysticism to modern Christians: \"Tolle is, in fact, rather brilliantly bringing to our awareness the older tradition ... [which is] both the ground and the process for breaking through to the theological contemplation of God, and acquired contemplation of Jesus, the Gospels, and all spiritual things.\"\n\nIn 2008 \"The Independent\" noted that \"Tolle's theories are certainly seen by many as profoundly non-Christian, even though Tolle often quotes from the Bible,\" but that \"Tolle does have fans in academic, even Christian, circles\". It cited Andrew Ryder, a theologian at All Hallows College in Dublin, who wrote, \"While he may not use the language of traditional Christian spirituality, Tolle is very much concerned that, as we make our way through the ordinary events of the day, we keep in touch with the deepest source of our being.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072120", "title": "Gregory Currie", "text": "Gregory Currie\n\nGregory Currie () is Professor of Philosophy in the Department of Philosophy at the University of York.\n\nCurrie was educated at the London School of Economics and the University of California, Berkeley. His first posts were in Australia, at the University of Sydney, and in New Zealand, at the University of Otago. He was Professor of Philosophy and Head of the School of Arts at Flinders University, Adelaide. Until September 2013 he was Professor of Philosophy and Director of Research in Humanities at the University of Nottingham; he is currently Professor of Philosophy at the University of York. He is a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Humanities and a Past President of the Australasian Association of Philosophy.\n\nCurrie is the Executive Editor of \"Mind and Language\", an Associate Editor of the Australasian Journal of Philosophy, a Past Fellow of St John's College, Oxford, and has held visiting positions at Clare Hall, Cambridge, the London School of Economics, the Institute for Advanced Study, Australian National University, the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of St Andrews.\n\nHis research currently focuses on the arts, imagination, the nature of delusions, and the role of narrative in our thinking. He is working on a book focusing on the value of literature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17459809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17459809", "title": "Henri Atlan", "text": "Henri Atlan\n\nHenri Atlan (born 27 December 1931 in Blida, French Algeria) is a French biophysicist and philosopher.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in French Algeria, Atlan gained degrees in medicine and biophysics at the University of Paris (now University Paris Diderot). He married Liliane Atlan in 1952; they had two children while living in Paris, Miri in 1953 and Michael in 1956. He then moved to the University of California, Berkeley working on ageing and mutation.\n\nInfluenced by Heinz von Foerster, Atlan became interested in applying cybernetics and information theory to living organisms, and went to the Weizmann Institute in Rehovot to work under the biophysicist Aharon Katchalsky. In 1972, he returned to Paris; and, in that year, his 1972 work on information theory and self-organising systems, entitled \"L'organisation biologique et la théorie de l'information\", received a wide readership. In this book, he proposed the principle of \"complexity from noise\" (), concept taken up in his following book \"Entre le cristal et la fumée\" (1979) and development of 1960 Von Foerster's notion of \"order from noise\". In Paris, he then taught biophysics at the Hôtel-Dieu and, later, at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem's Hadassah Medical Center.\n\nHis participation with Francisco Varela at a conference in Cerisy-la-Salle encouraged interest in cognitive science in France. Atlan was instrumental in the establishment of the Centre de Recherche en Epistémologie Appliquée (CREA) at the École Polytechnique, and was appointed in 1983 to the Comité Consultatif National d'Éthique pour la Sciences de a Vie et de la Santé (National Advisory Committee on Ethics in the Life Sciences and Medicine). He has been appointed to a chair in the philosophy of biology at the École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales.\n\nHe is also a member of Collegium International, an organization of leaders with political, scientific, and ethical expertise whose goal is to provide new approaches in overcoming the obstacles in the way of a peaceful, socially just, and an economically sustainable world.\n\n"}
{"id": "183442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183442", "title": "Hossein Nasr", "text": "Hossein Nasr\n\nHossein Nasr (; , born April 7, 1933) is an Iranian professor emeritus of Islamic studies at George Washington University, and an Islamic philosopher. He is the author of scholarly books and articles.\n\nNasr speaks and writes based on subjects such as philosophy, religion, spirituality, music, art, architecture, science, literature, civilizational dialogues, and the natural environment. He has also written two books of poetry (\"Poems of the Way\" and \"The Pilgrimage of Life and the Wisdom of Rumi\") and has been described as a \"polymath\".\n\nNasr was born in 1933 in south-central Tehran to Seyyed Valiallah, who was a physician to the Persian royal family, and one of the founders of modern education in Iran. He wrote many essays which still remain in manuscript form, some of which have been assembled by Nasr into a book called \"Danish wa Akhlaq\" (‘‘Knowledge and Ethics’’). His parents were originally from Kashan. He is a descendant of Sheikh Fazlollah Nouri from his mother's side, through him is related to the communist Noureddin Kianouri, is the cousin of Iranian philosopher Ramin Jahanbegloo as well as the father of American academic Vali Nasr.\n\nNasr went to Firuz Bahram High School in Tehran before being sent to the United States for education at thirteen. In the US, Nasr first attended Peddie School in Hightstown, New Jersey, graduating in 1950 as the valedictorian of his class and also winner of the Wyclifte Award.\n\nA scholarship offered by MIT in physics made him the first Iranian undergraduate to attend that university. There, he also began studying under Giorgio de Santillana and others in various other branches such as metaphysics and philosophy. During his studies there he became acquainted with the works of the Traditionalist authority Frithjof Schuon. This school of thought has shaped Nasr's life and thinking ever since. Nasr had been a disciple of Frithjof Schuon for over fifty years and his works are based on the doctrine and the viewpoints of the perennial philosophy.\n\nUpon his graduation from MIT, Nasr obtained a master's degree in geology and geophysics in 1956, and went on to pursue his Ph.D. degree in the history of science and learning at Harvard University. He planned to write his dissertation under the supervision of George Sarton, but Sarton died before he could begin his dissertation work and so he wrote his dissertation under the direction of I. Bernard Cohen, Hamilton Gibb, and Harry Wolfson.\n\nAt the age of twenty-five, Nasr graduated with his Ph.D. from Harvard and completed his first book, \"Science and Civilization in Islam\", the title being a direct tribute to \"Science and Civilization in China\", the work by Joseph Needham which had for task to present to Westerners the complex developments of the history of science and technology in China, a mission Nasr was himself following for the Islamic civilization, \"although I was working single-handedly, a twenty-five-year-old scholar, and he had a whole group working with him at Cambridge\". His doctoral dissertation entitled \"Conceptions of Nature in Islamic Thought\" was published in 1964 by Harvard University Press as \"An Introduction to Islamic Cosmological Doctrines\".\n\nApart from mastering Arabic he was initially taught in his childhood, during his student years, Nasr also learned different languages, namely French (he could read Guénon and Schuon in the text), Greek, Latin, Italian, Spanish and German (mainly to work on Hegel for his PhD thesis).\n\nNasr began his teaching career in 1955 when he was still a young doctoral student at Harvard University. He became a full professor by the age of 30.\n\nAfter Harvard, Nasr returned to Iran as a professor at Tehran University, and then at Arya Mehr University (Sharif University) where he was appointed president in 1972. Before that, he served as Dean of The Faculty of Letters, and Academic Vice-Chancellor of Tehran University from 1968 to 1972.\n\nNasr also learned Islamic philosophy from the philosophers Allameh Tabatabaei, Sayyid Abul-Hasan Qazwini and Sayyid Muhammad Kazim Assar during that period leading up to the revolution.\n\nNasr was appointed personal secretary to Farah Pahlavi Empress of Iran as Head of the Empress's Private Bureau. In 1974 she commissioned him to establish and lead the Imperial Iranian Academy of Philosophy, the first academic institution to be conducted in accordance with the intellectual principles of the Traditionalist School. During that time, Nasr, Tabatabaei, William Chittick, Kenneth Morgan, Sachiko Murata, Toshihiko Izutsu, and Henry Corbin held various philosophical discourses. The book \"Shi'a Islam\" was one product of this period.\n\nUpon his return to the west, Nasr took up positions at University of Edinburgh, Temple University, and since 1984 has been at The George Washington University where he is now a full-time University Professor of Islamic Studies.\n\nNasr helped with the planning and expansion of Islamic and Iranian studies academic programs in several universities such as Princeton, the University of Utah, and the University of Southern California.\n\nHe was an advisor for the award-winning, PBS-broadcast documentary \"\" (2002), produced by Unity Productions Foundation.\n\n\nNasr is the author of over fifty books and five hundred articles (a number of which can be found in the journal, Studies in Comparative Religion) on topics such as Traditionalist metaphysics, Islamic science, religion and the environment, Sufism, and Islamic philosophy. He has written works in Persian, English, French, and Arabic. Listed below are most of Nasr's works in English (in chronological order), including translations, edited volumes, and Festschriften in his honor:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4997017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4997017", "title": "Human biocomputer", "text": "Human biocomputer\n\nThe term human biocomputer, coined by John C. Lilly, refers to the \"hardware\" of the human anatomy. This would include the brain, internal organs, and other human organ systems such as cardiovascular, digestive, endocrine, immune, integumentary, lymphatic, muscular, nervous, reproductive, respiratory, skeletal, and urinary systems. The biocomputer has stored program properties, and self-metaprogramming properties, with limits determinable and to be determined.\n\nThe functional organization of the human biocomputer is:\n\nThe levels of the human biocomputer are explained thus:\nLevels from one to two are the boundaries between external reality and the body. Certain energies and materials (heat, light, sound, food, and secretions) pass through this boundary in special places. Levels two to three are the boundaries of body and brain, in which special structures such as blood vessels, nerve fibers, and cerebrospinal fluid pass. Levels four through eleven are in the brain circuitry, and is the software inside the biocomputer. Levels after ten are termed unknown. This is to allow an openeness for future scientific research, and discoveries. This is also to illustrate the unwillingness to subscribe to any dogmatic belief, to encourage creative, courageous and imaginative investigation, to emphasize the necessity for unknown factors on all levels, and to point out the heuristic nature of this schema.\n\nMind, which is defined as the sum total of all the programs and metaprograms (and even supraself metaprograms) of a human biocomputer. This is the software and is looked at as the opposite of the hardware.\nThe brain is defined as the visible, palpable living set of structures to be included in the human biocomputer.\n\nA stored program is defined as a set of instructions which are placed in memory storage of the biocomputer, and which control the biocomputer when orders are given for that program to be activated. These programs can be activated by the same biocomputer, another biocomputer, or a situation outside of the biocomputer.\n\nMetaprogramming is defined as a set of instructions, descriptions, and implementations of related thoughts and actions(programs). Self metaprogramming involves the creation, revision, and reorganization of programs and metaprograms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "419402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=419402", "title": "Index of philosophy articles (R–Z)", "text": "Index of philosophy articles (R–Z)\n"}
{"id": "5580706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5580706", "title": "Indifferent act", "text": "Indifferent act\n\nAn indifferent act is any action that is neither good nor evil.\n\nWhen acts are considered in general, with respect only to their object, there are acts that can be said to be neither good nor bad, but indifferent. It is a topic of much dispute whether a specific act, performed by a specific person in particular circumstances, and for a certain end, can be indifferent, provided that it is not something done out of habit rather than deliberation.\n\nCan the character of indifference be predicated of the act, considered not as an abstraction of the mind, but in the concrete, as it is exercised by the individual in particular circumstances, and for a certain end?\n\nTo this question St. Bonaventure, answers in the affirmative, and with him Duns Scotus, and all the Scotist school. So also Patritius Sporer; Benjamin Elbel; Vasquez; Arriaga; and later Archbishop Walsh. Thomas Aquinas, and his commentators hold the opposite opinion. So too do Francisco Suárez; Charles René Billuart; Alphonsus Liguori; Thomas Bouquillon; Augustine Lehmkuhl; and Noldin.\n\nThe Thomists, no less than the Scotists, recognize as morally indifferent acts done without deliberation, such, for instance, as the stroking of one's beard or the rubbing of one's hands together, as these ordinarily take place. Admittedly indifferent, too, will those acts be in which there is but a physical deliberation, as it is called, such as is realized when, for instance, we deliberately read or write, without any thought of the moral order. The question here is of those acts only that are performed with advertence to a moral rule. Again, most of the Thomists will allow that an act would be indifferent in the case where an agent would judge it to be neither good nor bad after he had formed his conscience, according to the opinion of Scotists. Finally, no controversy is raised regarding the indifference of acts with reference to supernatural merit. The doctrine that all the works of infidels are evil has been formally condemned. Yet clearly, while the deeds of those without grace may be morally good, and thus in the supernatural order escape all demerit, they cannot, at the same time, lay claim to any merit.\n\nBoth the Thomists and Scotists will declare that, to be morally good, an act must be in conformity with the exigencies and dignity of our rational nature. But the question is, what is to be reckoned as conformable to the exigencies and dignity of our rational nature? According to the Scotists, the deliberate act of a rational being, to be morally good, must be referred to a positively good end. Hence those acts in which the agent adverts to no end, and which have for their object nothing that is either conformable to our rational nature, nor yet contrary to it, such as eating, drinking, taking recreation, and the like, cannot be accounted morally good. Since, however, these discover no deviation from the moral norm, they cannot be characterized as evil, and so therefore, it is said, must be considered as indifferent.\n\nAccording to the opinion of Thomas Aquinas, a common one among theologians, it is not necessary, in order to be morally good, that an act should be referred to a positively good end. It is enough that the end is seen to be not evil, and that in the performance of the act the bounds set by right reason be not transgressed. Thus the acts of eating, drinking, taking recreation, and the like, while, in the abstract, they are neither conformable nor contrary to our rational nature, in the concrete, by reason of the circumstance of their being done in the manner and the measure prescribed by reason, become fully in accord with our rational nature, and hence morally good. It will be observed from the foregoing that the Thomists hold as morally good the acts which the Scotists maintain to be only morally indifferent.\n\nAccording to a third class of theologians, a deliberate act which is not referred to a positively good end must be reputed as morally evil. Hence that which we have described as good in the doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, and as indifferent to the mind of Duns Scotus, must according to these theologians, be deemed nothing else than bad. The advocates of this opinion are one with Aquinas only in declaring that there are no indifferent deliberate acts. They differ from him radically in their rigour.\n\n"}
{"id": "56943846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56943846", "title": "Jacob von Thyboe", "text": "Jacob von Thyboe\n\nJacob von T(h)yboe eller Den stortalende Soldat, or simply Jacob von Thyboe, is a satirical play first published by Ludvig Holberg in 1723. Ir premiered at rgw Lille Grønnegade Theatre in Copenhagen in 1725.\n\nLeonard is poor but wants to marry the fair Lucilia. His two rivals, Jakob von Thyboe, a soldier, and Styge Stygotius, are both wealthy and well-spoken.\n\nDR has produced a \"made-for-television\" of Jacob von Thyboe that premiered on 13 March 1966. It was directed by Ulf Stenbjørn and the cast included Aksel Erhardtsen, John Larsen, Eddie Karnil and Olaf Ussing.\n\n"}
{"id": "37859812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37859812", "title": "Jean Soldini", "text": "Jean Soldini\n\nJean Soldini (born 13 March 1956 in Lugano) is a Swiss and French philosopher, art historian and poet.\n\nHe studied in Paris, where he earned the Habilitation à diriger des recherches (1995), after he graduated with a Ph.D. in philosophy and with a preceding Ph.D. in history of architecture.\n\nHis studies are aimed to build a non-authoritarian metaphysics where aesthetics of hospitality plays a primary role within knowledge, looking for the possibility of a resistance against the annihilation of the Other. A resistance against the arrogance of any kind of authoritarian thinking with its multiform camouflages, with its never-ending threat against what is existing-with-other. The aesthetics of hospitality does not be confused with an aestheticization of hospitality. It is a philosophy involved to reflect on sensation through what has its focus on the senses: to donate and receive food, water, a roof for sleeping.\nSoldini is also author of essays on Alberto Giacometti, on the philosophical margins of a creative work that put into effect the vital desire to know radically.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16571389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16571389", "title": "Jisha", "text": "Jisha\n\nFor the article about temple-shrines (, see Chinjusha.\n, along with the titles inji and sannō, are Japanese terms used in reference to the personal attendant of a monastery's abbot or teacher in Zen Buddhism. In the Rinzai school, the term is usually either \"inji\" or \"sannō\". According to the book \"3 Bowls: Vegetarian Recipes from an American Zen Buddhist Monastery\", \"While the jikijitsu is the stern father of the zendo, the jisha is the den mother, balancing the strictness that his counterpoint establishes. The jisha prepares for and greets all guests, tends to the needs of the students, takes care of the sick, and organizes the cleaning of the monastery.\" According to author Victor Sōgen Hori, \"In the Northern Sung period, a master of a large monastery had two attendants, but by the Yüan period the number of attendants had increased to five: an incense attendant, a secretary attendant, a guest attendant, a robe attendant, and a 'hot water and medicine' attendant who cooked for him.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41378031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41378031", "title": "Joseph P. Overton", "text": "Joseph P. Overton\n\nJoseph P. Overton (4 January 1960 – 30 June 2003) was a Senior Vice President of the Mackinac Center for Public Policy. He held a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering from Michigan Technological University and a juris doctor from the Thomas M. Cooley Law School.\n\nHe is known for conceiving of the idea since known as the Overton window, the range of ideas the public will accept. \n\nHe died at 43 from injuries suffered in a crash while piloting an ultralight aircraft, soon after taking off from the Tuscola Area Airport near Caro, Michigan. He was survived by his newlywed wife, Helen.\n\n"}
{"id": "18393542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18393542", "title": "Jules Lequier", "text": "Jules Lequier\n\nJules Lequier (or Lequyer, ; 30 January 1814 – 11 February 1862) was a French philosopher from Brittany. Lequier came to death, presumably as a suicide, by swimming out into the ocean.\n\nLequier wrote in favour of dynamic divine omniscience, wherein God's knowledge of the future is one of possibilities rather than actualities. Omniscience, under this view, is the knowledge of necessary facts as necessary, and contingent facts as contingent. Since the future does not yet exist as anything more than a realm of abstract possibilities, it is no impugning of divine omniscience to claim that God does not know the future as a fixed and unalterable state of affairs: that he does not know what is not there to be known. Lequier's approach guarantees both divine and human freedom, and suggests a partial resolution of the apparent inconsistency of human-wrought evil and the perfect goodness, power and knowledge of God.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12231874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12231874", "title": "Kashf", "text": "Kashf\n\nKashf () \"unveiling\" is a Sufi concept dealing with knowledge of the heart rather than of the intellect. Kashf describes the state of experiencing a personal divine revelation after ascending through spiritual struggles, and uncovering the heart (a spiritual faculty) in order to allow divine truths to pour into it. Kashf is etymologically related to \"mukashafa\" “disclosure”/ “divine irradiation of the essence”, which connotes “gain[ing] familiarity with things unseen behind the veils”. For those who have purified their hearts, and who come to know the Divine Names and Attributes to the fullest of their individual capacities, the veils in front of the purely spiritual realms are opened slightly, and they begin to gain familiarity with the unseen. In Sufism, an even further revelatory capacity exists by which the Divine mysteries become readily apparent to the seeker through the light of knowledge of God. This is called \"tajalli\" \"manifestation\".\n\nTwo passages in the Qur'an serve as the most solid basis for elaboration on the Sufi concept of kashf:\n\nThe verb “kashafa,” but never the noun “kashf” occurs in the Qur'an a variety of times in the sense of either “to uncover” (a part of the body) or “to take away” (misfortune, danger).\n\nHadith of the Veils\n\nOne hadith holds particular significance for the concept of \"kashf\":\n\n2 - \n\n\"Between God (mighty and sublime) and creation are \"70,000 veils\". The nearest of creatures to God (mighty and sublime) are Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, and between them and Him are four veils: a veil of fire, a veil of darkness, a veil of cloud, and a veil of water.\"\nThis Hadith is quoted somewhat differently by \"Ibn Majah\" as follows:\n\n“God has seventy thousand veils of light and darkness; if He were to remove them, the radiant splendors of His Face would burn up whoever (or ‘whatever creature’) was reached by His Gaze.” \n\nIt is said that Ali ibn Abi Talib, cousin to the Prophet Muhammad, prayed a prayer that included this excerpt during the month of Sha'baan:\n\nMy Lord, grant me complete severance of my relations with everything else and total submission to You. Enlighten the eyes of our hearts with the light of their looking at You to the extent that they penetrate the veils of light and reach the Source of Grandeur, and let our souls get suspended by the glory of Your sanctity.\n\nAl-Kushayri expands on al-Kalabadhi’s proposal that \"tajalli\" (manifestation) of “the essence” of the Divine is called \"mukashafa\". He then illustrates three stages in progression towards understanding the Real:\n\nAl-Ghazali—This Sufi scholar discusses the concept of kashf, not purely in its mystical sense, but also with respect to theology in general. In conjunction with Al-Kushayri, Al-Ghazali links kashf with intuition. For Al-Ghazali, mukashafa has a dual sense:\n\nSince, for Al-Ghazali, \"kashf\" is linked to intuition, he describes \"mukashafa\" as the certain knowledge of the unseen discovered by the “science of the saints”. Thus, \"kashf\" is considered “a light,” that is freely bestowed upon the purified worshipper through the grace of God, yet also yields sure intuitive knowledge for the worshipper upon whom it is bestowed.\n\nIbn Arabi—This Sufi mystic indicates the necessity for “divine unveiling” (\"kashf\") as the means by which to understand the universality of the reality of realities (i.e. the universality of God’s oneness). In \"fana\" (self-annihilation), the individual ego passes away and divine self-manifestation occurs. This self-manifestation is eternal (as it comes from God), but it must be continually reenacted by the human in time. Therefore, the human becomes a pure receptor required for pure consciousness to be realized. The human is a sort of \"barzakh\" or intermediary between divinity and elementality, between spirit and matter, and open to the experience of \"kashf\".\n\nAli Hujwiri—The author of the Persian Sufi text \"Kashf ul Mahjoob\" (Revelation of the Veiled) Hujwiri argues, along with Al-Kushayri that very few \"real\" Sufis exist anymore in his time; rather, there are a large number of “false pretenders” which he calls \"mustaswif\"—“the would-be Sufi”. In his text, Hujwiri describes the “veils which should be lifted” in order to purify one's heart and really pursue Sufism. Hujwiri argues for the importance of “morals” over “formal practice” in Sufism. He was the first to directly address the problematic diversity in Muslim belief during his time. In \"Kashf ul Mahjoob\", he describes various Sufi approaches to theoretical ideas, linking them to particular key Sufi figures.\n\nIn Shi’ism, the spiritual experience of \"kashf\" is treated as a theological rather than purely mystical dimension.\n\nThe concept of \"kashf\" remains controversial in the Muslim world because it indicates the ability to “know” the unknowable. According to the Qur'an, Muslims are required to believe in the unseen (namely Allah), but knowledge of the unseen is a power that should belong solely to God. But it does not contradict the quran because only God has knowledge of the unseen and if someone else other than God has that knowledge, then it's only because it was given to them by God.\n\nSufis further would argue that “the only guide to God is God Himself”. They do believe that every genuine worshipper has the capability to experience unveiling (personal revelation), but that this personal revelation occurs by the grace of God. Some say, if a worshipper fails to experience unveiling, \"it indicates that that person is pursuing Sufism for a reason other than the love of God alone.\" - However this in fact, incorrect. As devout Sufis believe that every individual's experience in sufism is different, similaraly to how different people have tha ability to see different things, therefore one can confirm that Kashf is not an ability granted to everyone. God is in fact the one who does the unveiling once a person has given up on all worldly forms of knowledge and his/her heart is pure and open for God. It is God's will to choose what people see and which people see. Ibn ‘Arabi calls this “inner receptivity” to the manifestation (\"tajalli\") of the Divine Mysteries, the essence of which is \"mukashafa\".\n\nPeripatetic scholars such as Avicenna, al-Kindi, and al-Farabi argue that the intellect unaided by divine unveiling (\"kashf\") is sufficient in order for man to attain ultimate truth.\n\nSufis such as Bayazid Bastami, Rumi, and Ibn al-Arabi, contrarily argue that the limited human intellect is insufficient and misleading as a means of understanding ultimate truth. This kind of understanding requires intimate, personal, direct knowledge resulting from the removal of the veils separating man from God as given to man by God himself. This is \"kashf\".\n\nLater mystics, relying upon the traditional terminology, classified the revelations as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "7107829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7107829", "title": "Kashmiriyat", "text": "Kashmiriyat\n\nKashmiriyat is the ethno-national and social consciousness and cultural values of the Kashmiri people. The term \"Kashmiriat\" has come to signify a centuries-old indigenous secularism of Kashmir. Emerging around the 16th century, it is characterised by religious and cultural harmony, patriotism and pride for their mountainous homeland of Kashmir. In recent 2007 poll conducted by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies in New Delhi, 84 percent of people in Srinagar want to see the return of Kashmiri Pandits. A MORI survey of popular opinion in the state of Jammu and Kashmir, including the Kashmir Valley, found 92% respondents opposed to the state being divided on the basis of religion or ethnicity. However, scholar Christopher Snedden states that the concept of Kashmiriyat has been 'romanticised' and Kashmiriyat could not prevent antipathy and rivalry between the Kashmiri Pandits and the Kashmiri Muslims.\n\nThe Kashmir region enjoys significant ethnic, cultural and religious diversity. The region has historically been an important centre for Hinduism and Buddhism. Islam was introduced in the medieval centuries, and Sikhism also spread to the region under the rule of the Sikh Empire in the 18th and 19th centuries. Kashmir has a significant place in the mythology and history of all four religions. The region derives its name from the Kashmiri Pandit ancestor, named Rishi Kashyapa and is believed to have been the abode of the celestial beings. The region is home to many legendary Hindu and Buddhist monuments and institutions. The Hazratbal shrine houses a relic that is believed to be the hair of Muhammad, the prophet of Islam. In his journeys seeking religious enlightenment, Guru Nanak travelled to Kashmir. Kashmiris believe that the ideas of \"Kashmiriyat\" the rule of Sultan Zain ul Abedin, who gave equal protection, importance and patronage to Kashmir's different religious communities.\n\nKashmir's existence is characterised by its insular Himalayan geography, harsh winter climate and isolation in economic and political terms. The region has also seen political turmoil and foreign invasions. \"Kashmiriat\" is believed to be an expression of solidarity, resilience and patriotism regardless of religious differences. It is believed to embody an ethos of harmony and a determination of survival of the people and their heritage. To many Kashmiris, \"Kashmiriat\" demanded religious and social harmony and brotherhood. It has been strongly influenced by Kashmir Shaivism, Buddhism and Sufism, carrying a long-standing conviction that any and every religion will lead to the same divine goal.\n\nKashmir was also influenced by the Mughal emperor Akbar's genesis of a syncretic philosophy of \"Din-i-Illahi\", which emphasized the blending of Hindu and Muslim ideals and values. Works in the Kashmiri language, art, culture and literature strongly expound and emphasize \"Kashmiriat\" as a way of life. However, the impact and importance of \"Kashmiriat\" has been concentrated in the Kashmir Valley only, which is the real historical Kashmir. The farther regions of Gilgit, Baltistan, Jammu and Ladakh have not been influenced by this philosophy, as these regions are not Kashmiri in terms of culture, language or ethnicity.\n\nThe culture and ethos of \"Kashmiriat\" was greatly eroded at the onset of the Kashmir conflict, when the region was claimed by Pakistan and India and its territory divided during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947. In the political debate on sovereignty over Kashmir, many interpret \"Kashmiriat\" as nationalism and an expression for political independence from both Pakistan and India. The onset of militancy in Kashmir from 1989 has led to the exodus of almost all Hindus from Kashmir and violent attacks against the remaining communities of Hindus and Sikhs, further eroding the fabric of \"Kashmiriat\". Amidst the wider dispute between India and Pakistan. Conscious efforts to revive \"Kashmiriat\" have been made by various communities of Muslims and Hindus through united opposition to violence in the state. Efforts to promote \"Kashmiriat\" through cultural activities, social programmes and literature have increased throughout Jammu and Kashmir and amongst expatriate Kashmiri communities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1698170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1698170", "title": "Love letter", "text": "Love letter\n\nA love letter is a romantic way to express feelings of love in written form. Whether delivered by hand, mail, carrier pigeon, or romantically left in a secret location, the letter may be anything from a short and simple message of love to a lengthy explanation of feelings. Love letters may 'move through the widest range of emotions – devotion, disappointment, grief and indignation, self-confidence, ambition, impatience, self-reproach and resignation'.\n\nOne of the first love letters in the world, mentioned more than 5000 years ago, is one carried from Rukmini to Krishna by her Brahmin messenger Sunanda. This letter appears in the Bhagavatha Purana, book 10, chapter 52.\n\nExamples from Ancient Egypt range from the most formal – 'the royal widow . . . Ankhesenamun wrote a letter to the king of the Hittites, Egypt's old enemy, begging him to send one of his sons to Egypt to marry her' – to the down-to-earth: let me 'bathe in thy presence, that I may let thee see my beauty in my tunic of finest linen, when it is wet'. Imperial China might demand a higher degree of literary skill: when a heroine, faced with an arranged marriage, wrote to her childhood sweetheart, he exclaimed, 'what choice talent speaks in her well-chosen words . . . everything breathes the style of a Li T'ai Po. How on earth can anyone want to marry her off to some humdrum clod?'\n\nIn Ovid's Rome, 'the tricky construction and reception of the love letter' formed the centre of his Ars Amatoria or Art of Love: 'the love letter is situated at the core of Ovidian erotics'.\nThe Middle Ages saw the formal development of the Ars dictaminis, including the art of the love letter, from opening to close. For salutations, 'the scale in love letters is nicely graded from \"To the noble and discreet lady P., adorned with every elegance, greeting\" to the lyrical fervours of \"Half of my soul and light of my eyes . . . greeting, and that delight which is beyond all word and deed to express\"'. The substance similarly 'ranges from doubtful equivoque to exquisite and fantastic dreaming', rising to appeals for 'the assurance \"that you care for me the way I care for you\"'.\n\nThe love letter continued to be taught as a skill at the start of the eighteenth century, as in Richard Steele's \"Spectator\". Perhaps in reaction, the artificiality of the concept came to be distrusted by the Romantics: '\"A love-letter? My letter – a love-letter? It . . . came straight from my heart\"'.\n\nThe love letter continued to flourish in the first half of the twentieth-century – F Scott Fitzgerald gives us a Flapper 'absorbed in composing one of those non-committal, marvellously elusive letters that only a young girl can write' – and may even have been encouraged by the then-prevalence of global war. Before the wide use of telecommunications, letters were one of the few ways for a couple to remain in contact, particularly in wartime: when one of them was posted or stationed some distance from the other, the \"being apart\" often intensified emotions. Sometimes a desired normal communication could lead to a letter expressing love, longing and desires: 'the very act of writing often triggers love feelings in the writer'. During these times, \"love letters\" were the only means of communication, and soldiers even swapped addresses of desirable young ladies so that an initial communication and possible start of a relationship could be initiated. On the downside, when a correspondence was delayed, 'our move, the secrecy, the battle...it could be explained, but no explanation soothed my worry'; yet when letters came, operational contingencies might mean the need to 'Fold the letter carefully away...Fold that whole world away, and passion and love, so that they couldn't be hurt; yet of course they were there...when I saw a man, any man, reading a letter'.\n\nIn the second half of the century, with the coming of the permissive society - 'imprisoning in physical bonding' - and the instantaneity of the Information Age, the more distanced and nuanced art of the love letter might be said to have fallen somewhat into disrepute: 'what could be more tradition-bound than a woman's (heterosexual) love letter?'. A couple might instead separate with the exchange, '\"You should have said - I'll write.\" \"But we won't.\" \"No, but let's preserve the forms, the \"forms\" at least...\"'.\n\nEven in the electronic age, however, the humble love letter may possibly still play its part in life, if in new formats (exemplified perhaps in \"You've Got Mail\"); and 'on the internet, one can find numerous sites where people obtain advice on how to write a love letter'. Sometimes letters are preferable to face-to-face contact because they can be written as the thoughts come to the author's mind. This may allow feelings to be more easily expressed than if the writer were in the beloved's presence. Further, expressing strong emotional feelings to paper or some other permanent form can be an expression within itself of desire and the importance of the beloved and the lover's emotions. Perhaps any 'correspondence is a kind of love affair...tinged by a subtle but palpable eroticism'; while by contrast, in mobile, Twitter or Tweet, 'telegraphese was infectious', and the sign-off '\"LOL! B cool B N touch bye\"...felt like having a disinterested young mother'.\n\nThe expression of feelings may be made to an existing love or in the hope of establishing a new relationship; and the increasing rarity and consequent emotional charm of personal mail may also serve to emphasize the emotional importance of the message.\n\nIn A. S. Byatt's novel \"Possession\", the (twentieth century) plot turns on the discovery of love letters between two (nineteenth century) literary figures: 'as though you'd found — Jane Austen's love letters'. In his last letter, returning the correspondence, the man says 'You should burn them, I think, and yet, if Abelard had destroyed Eloisa's marvellous words, if the Portuguese Nun had kept silent, how much the poorer would we not be, how much less wise?'.\n\nThe book also explored how love letters subsequently 'exclude the reader as reader, they are written, if they are true letters, for \"a\" reader'; as well as the 'typically unrecognised quality of...the keeping of distance' in the face of the cult of 'letting it all hang out...we question everything except the centrality of sexuality' — a theme epitomised perhaps in the fate of the letters themselves.\n\nLacan consistently linked desire and the letter: 'The function of desire is a last residuum of the effect of the signifier in the subject'. Indeed, he called a late seminar \"A Love Letter\", emphasising therein that 'speaking of love is in itself a \"jouissance\" '. It was perhaps with respect to the love letter that he conceded that 'in the life of a man, a woman is something he believes in...believes her effectively to be saying something. That's when things get stopped up — to believe \"in\", one believes \"her\". It's what's called love'. (He added) 'Believing a woman is, thank God, a widespread state — which makes for company, one is no longer all alone'.\n\nAs with any letter, a love letter could be written in any structure or style. One historically popular method is as a sonnet or other form of poem. William Shakespeare's sonnets are often cited as good examples of how to write emotional themes. Structure and suggestions of love letters have formed the subject of many published books, such as the anthology \"Love Letters of Great Men\". 'After reading hundreds of love letters for her collection \"The Book of Love\" Cathy N. Davidson confesses, \"The more titles I read, the less I was able to generalize about female versus male ways of loving or expressing that love\"'.\n\nAfter the end of a relationship, returning love letters to the sender or burning them can symbolize the pain felt. In the past, love letters also needed to be returned as a matter of honor: a love letter, particularly from a lady, could be compromising or embarrassing later in life, and the use of 'compromising letters...for blackmailing or other purposes' was a Victorian cliche.\n\nSome stationery companies produce paper and envelopes specifically for love letters. Some of these are scented — 'ground up lavender...a whole new sensory experience in letter reading' — though most people prefer to spray them with their own perfume. This emphasizes, in the receiver's mind, the physical connection that occurred between them in this form of communication and thus may strengthen the overall impact of the letter.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "11919459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11919459", "title": "Luís Filipe Teixeira", "text": "Luís Filipe Teixeira\n\nLuis Filipe de Bragança e Sousa da Silva Teixeira (born November 3, 1959 in Luanda), Portuguese essayist and University teacher.\n\nHe has a PhD in Portuguese Studies and 19th Century Portuguese Culture from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa (1998). He has a master in Philosophy from the Lisbon University. As of February 2012 he is a tenured Professor in School of Communication Sciences, Arts and Information Technologies (Member of the Executive Board) at Universidade Lusófona de Humanidades e Tecnologias, in Lisbon. After, Researcher at CIES-IUL (ISCTE-IUL) and at NELI-Nucleo de Estudos em LIteratura e Intersemiose (Univ. Federal de Pernambuco - Brasil).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18163294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18163294", "title": "Ma Jaya", "text": "Ma Jaya\n\nMa Jaya Sati Bhagavati (died April 14, 2012) was a spiritual teacher born to Jewish parents in Brooklyn, United States. Her outlook has been influenced by Jesus Christ and the Hindu saint Bhagawan Nityananda. She has also been informed by the teachings of Neem Karoli Baba, Ramana Maharshi, Narish Keit, and Shirdi Sai Baba. \n\nMa Jaya Sati Bhagavati founded the Kashi Ashram, \"an international interfaith community based on kindness, compassion and service\", in Florida in 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "25385379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25385379", "title": "Maha Bandha", "text": "Maha Bandha\n\nMaha bandha (Sanskrit: महा बंध, Mahā Bandha), translated as \"The great bandha\" is one of the internal locks or bandhas described and employed in yoga.\n\nIn a meditation pose for the duration of Bahir Kumbhaka all three bandhas are gradually assumed and held, in the following order: Jalandhara Bandha, Uddiyana Bandha and finally Mula Bandha. Releasing of the bandhas goes in the same order.\n\nAll precaution from all three assumed bandhas should be considered.\n"}
{"id": "25882865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25882865", "title": "Mark Wrathall", "text": "Mark Wrathall\n\nMark Wrathall (born 1965) is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Oxford and a fellow and tutor at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. His main interests include phenomenology, existentialism, the phenomenology of religion, the philosophy of popular culture, and the philosophy of law. He is considered a leading interpreter of the philosophy of Martin Heidegger. Wrathall is featured in Tao Ruspoli's film \"Being in the World\". According to a recent reviewer of Wrathall's latest book, \"Wrathall's writing is clear and comprehensive, ranging across virtually all of Heidegger's collected works... Wrathall's overall interpretation of Heidegger's work is crystal clear, compelling, and relevant.\"\n\nMark Wrathall received a BA in philosophy at Brigham Young University in 1988. In 1991, he received both a Juris Doctorate from Harvard and an MA in philosophy from Boston College. After clerking for Cecil F. Poole at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, he pursued a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of California at Berkeley, graduating in 1996, where he was a student of the Heidegger scholar Hubert Dreyfus. From 1994 to 1996 he was a teaching fellow at Stanford Law School. He taught at Brigham Young University from 1996 to 2006 (first in the political science department, then from 1999 in the philosophy department). From 2006 to 2017, he was a professor at the University of California, Riverside.\n\nWrathall has also contributed to the philosophy of popular culture, editing a book on the philosophical themes found in the music of U2 and publishing essays on film and philosophy. Wrathall's work on popular culture intersects with his interests in religion. He draws on Heidegger, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche to describe how secularism and technology undermine belief in objective eternal meanings and values. But Wrathall thinks nihilism also \"opens up access to richer and more relevant ways for us to understand creation and for us to encounter the divine and the sacred.\"\n\n2000 \"Heidegger, Coping and Cognitive Science\" (MIT Press) - editor with Jeff Malpas\n2000 \"Heidegger, Authenticity and Modernity\" (MIT Press) - editor with Jeff Malpas\n2000 \"Appropriating Heidegger\" (Cambridge University Press) - editor with James E. Faulconer\n2002 \"Heidegger Reexamined\" (Routledge) - editor with Hubert Dreyfus\n2003 \"Religion After Metaphysics\" (Cambridge University Press) - editor\n2005 \"How to Read Heidegger\" (Granta; W. W. Norton)\n2005 \"A Companion to Heidegger\" - editor with Hubert Dreyfus\n2006 \"U2 and Philosophy\" (Open Court) - editor\n2006 \"A Companion to Phenomenology and Existentialism\" - editor with Hubert Dreyfus\n2008 \"U2 ea Filosofia\" (Madras) - editor\n2009 \"Die Philosophie bei U2\" (Wiley-VCH) - editor\n2010 \"Heidegger and Unconcealment: Truth, Language, History\" (Cambridge University Press)\n\n"}
{"id": "44518844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44518844", "title": "Mary Beckerle", "text": "Mary Beckerle\n\nMary Beckerle is an American cell biologist who studies cancer at the Huntsman Cancer Institute at the University of Utah Medical School. At Huntsman Cancer Institute, she serves as the CEO and also as Associate Vice President for Cancer Affairs at the University of Utah. Beckerle’s research helped to define a novel molecular pathway for cell motility, and more recently, she has begun research into Ewing’s sarcoma, a pediatric bone cancer. Beckerle’s lab has already made a ground breaking discover in regards to Ewing’s Sarcoma in relation to the EWS/FLI protein. Her lab discovered EWS/FLI to disrupt the internal cellular skeleton, which decreases the ability of cells to adhere to their proper environment. This can help explain the metastasis of tumors in patients suffering from Ewing’s sarcoma.\n\nMary Catherine Beckerle was born in Rivers Edge, New Jersey to Martin and Mickey Beckerle. She is the oldest of three daughters, with sisters Bobby and Jeanne. Her father worked at the New York Telephone Co. and died suddenly at the age of 36 of emphysema. Mary was twelve at the time. Her mother, a registered nurse, worked hard to keep the family together. Mary’s interest growing up included swimming and participation in Girl Scouts. As a teenager, she held jobs in a bakery, in a library, as a lifeguard, and at a Howard Johnson restaurant. Even with all these activities, school always remained Mary’s chief focus. After high school, she attended Wells College, a small all girls’ school in New York, where she earned a B. A. in Biology and Psychology. She graduated \"magna cum laude\" and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Before continuing her education, she took a year off and worked in a cellular biology research laboratory at University of Texas Southwest Medical Center. After this, she attended the University of Colorado Boulder where she earned a PhD. in Molecular Biology. Her education then continued at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill where she was a postdoctoral fellow in Anatomy and Cell Biology.\n\nWhile at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, Beckerle met David Murrell. She would go on to marry him. The couple shares one son, David, who Mary describes as “my greatest joy in life.” Since moving to Utah, Dr. Beckerle has taken interest in mountain biking and hiking.\n\nAfter finishing her postdoctoral research, Beckerle joined the University of Utah faculty as an assistant professor of Biology. She continued teaching at the University of Utah as well research and was one of the first professors to move into the Huntsman Cancer Institute when it opened in 1999. Also in 1999, she was awarded the Ralph E. and Willa T. Main Presidential Endowed Chair in Cancer Research at the University of Utah. Upon moving into the institute, she led a program specializing in cancer cell biology until 2003. In 2003, she was named the deputy director of the center. In 2006, she was named the CEO and the director over the entire Huntsman Cancer Institute. In 2009, she was also named the Associate Vice President for Cancer Affairs at the University of Utah. She holds the Jon M. Huntsman Presidential Endowed Chair at the University of Utah, where she has also been promoted to a distinguished professorship in the biology department.\n\nThroughout her career, Beckerle has served on many boards and committees, both within Huntsman Cancer Institute and nationally. In 1990, she served on the editorial board of Molecular Biology of the cell. She was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in Molecular and Cellular Biology at the Curie Institute in Paris in 1999. In 2006, Dr. Beckerle served as the president of the American Society of Cell Biology. She was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008. Recently, she has been named to the American Association of Cancer Research Science Policy and Legislative Affairs Committee. She has served in many capacities for the National Institute of Health, both on tasks forces as well as the NIH Advisory Committee to the Director from 2007-2010. She has also served as chair of the American Cancer Society Council for Extramural Grants. Currently, she serves on the Scientific Review Board of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the Board of Directors of the American Association for Cancer Research, the Coalition for Life Sciences Board of Directors. She serves on the Scientific Advisory Boards of the National Center for Biological Sciences at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Bangalore, and the Mechanobiology Institute of the National University of Singapore. Beckerle serves on numerous National Cancer Institute-designated Cancer Center External Scientific Advisory Boards, including the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Abramson Cancer Center of the University of Pennsylvania, and Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center. In 2013, she was elected to the Board of Directors of the American Association for Cancer Research. Beckerle was elected to the American Philosophical Society in the April 2017 group of inductees that also included Barack Obama.\n\nOn 17 April 2017, Beckerle was terminated as CEO and Director of the Huntsman Cancer Institute via an email from University of Utah President David W. Pershing and Senior Vice President for Health Sciences Vivian Lee. The university did not disclose reasons for the dismissal, but members of the Huntsman family issued several public criticisms of the move, and called for Beckerle's reinstatement while criticizing the leadership shown by Pershing and Lee. In subsequent days, members of the family made media appearances, published full page newspaper ads reiterating their support for cancer research and Beckerle, and even called for the termination of top university officials. Beckerle's firing occurred as the University of Utah and Huntsman Cancer Foundation were negotiating terms for a new memorandum of understanding to govern the operations of Huntsman Cancer Institute . Some Huntsman Cancer Institute faculty and staff were among over 3600 individuals who signed a petition requesting Beckerle be restored to her position. On 19 April, roughly 100 demonstrators marched from the Huntsman Cancer Institute facilities across the university campus to the Office of President Pershing, calling for Beckerle's return. This came on the heels of other meetings and protests in the university community. On the morning of 25 April, the university's board of trustees met in a closed session, after which Pershing briefly spoke to reporters, mentioning that an announcement would be forthcoming later in the day. Within a few hours, it was announced that Beckerle would be reinstated as CEO and Director of the Huntsman Cancer Institute, and would report directly to the University President, bypassing Vivian Lee. On 28 April, Vivian Lee announced via email that, effective the same day, she was stepping down as the university's senior vice president for health sciences, dean of the medical school, and CEO of the healthcare system.\n\nBeckerle’s research employs several different techniques to exam signaling problems and cell motility issues. Both of these problems could potentially play a role in the development of Ewing’s sarcoma. Her lab is currently focusing on projects involving: the physiological roles of the motility machinery in normal and transformed cells, cell adhesion events at the cell surface can affect processes that depend on the activity of the cell nucleus, how the cell integrates information from multiple receptors to achieve the appropriate response.\n\nEwing’s Sarcoma is a bone cancer affecting mainly children and adolescents. Tumors of Ewing’ Sarcoma are typically found in the long bones of the legs and arms, or bones in the chest, trunk, pelvis, back, or head. Beckerle’s research in this area focuses on a key pathway as believed to be a mechanism by which the cancer cells can spread. Ewing sarcoma occurs due to a chromosomal mutation that causes an atypical protein, known as EWS/FLI, to be present (also called expressed), and that when EWS/FLI is expressed, literally thousands of genes are misregulated, leading to abnormal behavior. Beckerle’s lab found that the EWS/FLI protein disrupted cell adhesion and limited the ability of cells to remain in their normal environment. The EWS/FLI protein is difficult to regulate so Beckerle’s team is focused on an essential regulating protein called ysine specific demethylase (LSD1). Preliminary research has aimed to halt the function of LSD1 to prevent the spread of Ewing Sarcoma cells.\n\n"}
{"id": "49133693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49133693", "title": "Mirza Hashem Eshkevari", "text": "Mirza Hashem Eshkevari\n\nMirza Hashem Eshkevari () was a Shi'a philosopher, jurist and mystic. He is one of the most important pupils of Agha Muhammad reza Qomshehi and his mystical school.\n\nHe was born in Eshkevar at Gilan. Eshkevar had given rise to scientists such as Qutb Al Din Eshkevari and Sayyed Abul Qasem Eshkevari. He was born there in 1250 Hijra lunar. His family lineage goes back to the regress of Sadat.\n\nHe traveled for learning and education. He began in Eshkevar then went to Qazvin to participate in the class of eminent master of jurisprudence, Aqa Sayyed Ali who prepared a glossary on the book of Qavanin. He traveled to Tehran to take part in the class of eminent masters of mysticism Aqa Ali Modarres and Mirza Abul Hasan Jeleveh. He taught for many years in the seminary of Sepah salar in Teran. He helped transform Islamic wisdom to other classes.\n\nHe educated many eminent pupils in different majors of Islamic sciences particularly mysticism and Islamic philosophy such as Mirza Ahmad, Ashtiyyani, Mirza Mehdi Ashtiyyani and Aqa Bozorg Hakim.\nMost of his books are written in Arabic. These books are primarily concerned with mystical and philosophical contents. Some of them are:\n\nHe died of illness in 1293.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42309779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42309779", "title": "Nomy Arpaly", "text": "Nomy Arpaly\n\nNomy Arpaly is a Professor of Philosophy at Brown University. Her main research interests include ethics, moral psychology, action theory, and free will; she has written two books on moral agency (\"Unprincipled Virtue: an Inquiry into Human Agency\" and \"In Praise of Desire\",) and one (\"Merit, Meaning, and Human Bondage – an Essay on Free Will\") on free will.\n\nArpaly received a dual bachelor's from Tel Aviv University in 1992 in philosophy and linguistics, and a doctorate in philosophy from Stanford University in 1998. She accepted a position as a Visiting Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor for the 1998–9 term, before accepting an Assistant Professorship at Rice University where she stayed in 2003. In 2003, she accepted an Assistant Professorship at Brown University, where she was promoted to Associate Professor in 2006, and then to Professor of Philosophy in 2014.\n\nArpaly has authored three volumes – one focused on moral agency – \"Unprincipled Virtue: an Inquiry into Human Agency\" (2002) – and one focused on free will – \"Merit, Meaning, and Human Bondage – an Essay on Free Will\" (2006.) and one dealing with human agency – \"In Praise of Desire\" (2014.) Additionally, she's written a number of peer-reviewed papers dealing with topics such as ethics, moral psychology, and action theory.\n\nIn \"Unprincipled Virtue: an Inquiry into Human Agency\", Arpaly sets out to develop a systematic way to determine whether an individual is blameworthy or praiseworthy. Arpaly engages with (and attempts to refute) a number of prominent philosophers who have dealt with the issue previously (including Kant and Aristotle,) but focuses foremost on developing her own theory of praiseworthiness, one in which people are praise (or blame)worthy for their acts in a way that varies with their moral motivations, and (in the case of blameworthiness) with the amount of their moral indifference – a concept she sums up as – Praiseworthiness as Responsiveness to Moral Reasons. Arpaly articulates a skeptical and deflationary view of the whole idea of autonomy, pointing out that at least eight separate notions of the idea of autonomy can be found in modern philosophical literature, and doubting that autonomy of any sort is needed for an action to be praiseworthy. One of the most significant contributions of Arpaly's book is simply that it lays out the flaws present in most former philosophical debate on the subject – the use of overly simple and unnuanced models in previous discussions of praiseworthiness. One of the central claims of \"Unprincipled Virtue\" is that the assistance that Huckleberry Finn renders to Jim is morally worthy even though Huck actively believes that he is doing something wrong, and that akrasia can sometimes be a more rational state than individual autonomy.\n"}
{"id": "36430482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36430482", "title": "Per fas et nefas", "text": "Per fas et nefas\n\n\"Per fas et nefas\" (Latin for \"through right and wrong\") refers to unfair eristic treatment. It occurs when interlocutor A postulates a theory, and cites several reasons that justify it. Interlocutor B then refutes one of the arguments, and triumphantly declares that A's argument has no basis, even though they never said a word about the other arguments that A put forth.\n\n"}
{"id": "20799374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20799374", "title": "Peter Joseph Elvenich", "text": "Peter Joseph Elvenich\n\nPeter Joseph Elvenich (29 January 1796 – 16 June 1886) was a German Catholic theologian and philosopher born in Embken, a village that today is part of Nideggen, North Rhine-Westphalia. He was a principal supporter and defender of Hermesianism, a theological belief system based on the teachings of Georg Hermes (1775–1831).\n\nHe studied theology and philosophy in Münster and Bonn, and in 1821 became a schoolteacher in Koblenz. During the following year he became a lecturer at the University of Bonn, where in 1826 he became an associate professor of philosophy. In 1829 he attained a full professorship at the University of Breslau, where in 1837 he took on additional duties as librarian.\n\nFollowing the papal decrees of 26 September 1835 and 7 January 1836, of which Pope Gregory XVI condemned writings issued by Georg Hermes, Elvenich, along with Johann Wilhelm Joseph Braun (1801-1863), traveled to Rome in order to the convince the Pope to revise the decrees of condemnation. Their efforts were in vain, and several years later the condemnation was reiterated by Pope Pius IX. In 1843 Elvenich was removed from his post in Breslau at the request of Johannes von Geissel, coadjutor to the Archbishop of Cologne. After the Vatican Council of 1870, he became a member of the Old Catholic Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1674621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674621", "title": "Process modeling", "text": "Process modeling\n\nThe term process model is used in various contexts. For example, in business process modeling the enterprise process model is often referred to as the \"business process model\".\n\nProcess models are processes of the same nature that are classified together into a model. Thus, a process model is a description of a process at the type level. Since the process model is at the type level, a process is an instantiation of it. The same process model is used repeatedly for the development of many applications and thus, has many instantiations. One possible use of a process model is to prescribe how things must/should/could be done in contrast to the process itself which is really what happens. A process model is roughly an anticipation of what the process will look like. What the process shall be will be determined during actual system development.\n\nThe goals of a process model are to be:\n\nFrom a theoretical point of view, the meta-process modeling explains the key concepts needed to describe what happens in the development process, on what, when it happens, and why. From an operational point of view, the meta-process modeling is aimed at providing guidance for method engineers and application developers.\n\nThe activity of modeling a business process usually predicates a need to change processes or identify issues to be corrected. This transformation may or may not require IT involvement, although that is a common driver for the need to model a business process. Change management programmes are desired to put the processes into practice. With advances in technology from larger platform vendors, the vision of business process models (BPM) becoming fully executable (and capable of round-trip engineering) is coming closer to reality every day. Supporting technologies include Unified Modeling Language (UML), model-driven architecture, and service-oriented architecture.\n\nProcess modeling addresses the process aspects of an enterprise business architecture, leading to an all encompassing enterprise architecture. The relationships of a business processes in the context of the rest of the enterprise systems, data, organizational structure, strategies, etc. create greater capabilities in analyzing and planning a change. One real-world example is in corporate mergers and acquisitions; understanding the processes in both companies in detail, allowing management to identify redundancies resulting in a smoother merger.\n\nProcess modeling has always been a key aspect of business process reengineering, and continuous improvement approaches seen in Six Sigma.\n\nThere are five types of coverage where the term process model has been defined differently:\n\nProcesses can be of different kinds. These definitions \"correspond to the various ways in which a process can be modelled\".\n\n\nGranularity refers to the level of detail of a process model and affects the kind of guidance, explanation and trace that can be provided. Coarse granularity restricts these to a rather limited level of detail whereas fine granularity provides more detailed capability. The nature of granularity needed is dependent on the situation at hand.\n\nProject manager, customer representatives, the general, top-level, or middle management require rather coarse-grained process description as they want to gain an overview of time, budget, and resource planning for their decisions. In contrast, software engineers, users, testers, analysts, or software system architects will prefer a fine-grained process model where the details of the model can provide them with instructions and important execution dependencies such as the dependencies between people.\n\nWhile notations for fine-grained models exist, most traditional process models are coarse-grained descriptions. Process models should, ideally, provide a wide range of granularity (e.g. Process Weaver).\n\nIt was found that while process models were prescriptive, in actual practice departures from the prescription can occur. Thus, frameworks for adopting methods evolved so that systems development methods match specific organizational situations and thereby improve their usefulness. The development of such frameworks is also called situational method engineering.\n\nMethod construction approaches can be organized in a flexibility spectrum ranging from 'low' to 'high'.\n\nLying at the 'low' end of this spectrum are rigid methods, whereas at the 'high' end there are modular method construction. Rigid methods are completely pre-defined and leave little scope for adapting them to the situation at hand. On the other hand, modular methods can be modified and augmented to fit a given situation. Selecting a rigid methods allows each project to choose its method from a panel of rigid, pre-defined methods, whereas selecting a path within a method consists of choosing the appropriate path for the situation at hand. Finally, selecting and tuning a method allows each project to select methods from different approaches and tune them to the project's needs.\" \n\nAs the quality of process models is being discussed in this paper, there is a need to elaborate quality of modeling techniques as an important essence in quality of process models. In most existing frameworks created for understanding the quality, the line between quality of modeling techniques and the quality of models as a result of the application of those techniques are not clearly drawn. This report will concentrate both on quality of process modeling techniques and quality of process models to clearly differentiate the two.\nVarious frameworks were developed to help in understanding quality of process modeling techniques, one example is Quality based modeling evaluation framework or known as Q-Me framework which argued to provide set of well defined quality properties and procedures to make an objective assessment of this properties possible.\nThis framework also has advantages of providing uniform and formal description of the model element within one or different model types using one modeling techniques\nIn short this can make assessment of both the product quality and the process quality of modeling techniques with regard to a set of properties that have been defined before.\n\nQuality properties that relate to business process modeling techniques discussed in are:\n\n\nTo assess the quality of Q-ME framework; it is used to illustrate the quality of the dynamic essentials modeling of the organisation (DEMO) business modeling techniques.\n\nIt is stated that the evaluation of the Q-ME framework to the DEMO modeling techniques has revealed the shortcomings of Q-ME. One particular is that it does not include quantifiable metric to express the quality of business modeling technique which makes it hard to compare quality of different techniques in an overall rating.\n\nThere is also a systematic approach for quality measurement of modeling techniques known as complexity metrics suggested by Rossi et al. (1996). Techniques of Meta model is used as a basis for computation of these complexity metrics. In comparison to quality framework proposed by Krogstie, quality measurement focus more on technical level instead of individual model level.\n\nAuthors (Cardoso, Mendling, Neuman and Reijers, 2006) used complexity metrics to measure the simplicity and understandability of a design. This is supported by later research done by Mendling \"et al.\" who argued that without using the quality metrics to help question quality properties of a model, simple process can be modeled in a complex and unsuitable way. This in turn can lead to a lower understandability, higher maintenance cost and perhaps inefficient execution of the process in question.\n\nThe quality of modeling technique is important in creating models that are of quality and contribute to the correctness and usefulness of models.\n\nEarliest process models reflected the dynamics of the process with a practical process obtained by instantiation in terms of relevant concepts, available technologies, specific implementation environments, process constraints and so on.\n\nEnormous number of research has been done on quality of models but less focus has been shifted towards the quality of process models. Quality issues of process models cannot be evaluated exhaustively however there are four main guidelines and frameworks in practice for such. These are: top-down quality frameworks, bottom-up metrics related to quality aspects, empirical surveys related to modeling techniques, and pragmatic guidelines.\n\nHommes quoted Wang \"et al.\" (1994) that all the main characteristic of quality of models can all be grouped under 2 groups namely correctness and usefulness of a model, correctness ranges from the model correspondence to the phenomenon that is modeled to its correspondence to syntactical rules of the modeling and also it is independent of the purpose to which the model is used.\n\nWhereas the usefulness can be seen as the model being helpful for the specific purpose at hand for which the model is constructed at first place. Hommes also makes a further distinction between internal correctness (empirical, syntactical and semantic quality) and external correctness (validity).\n\nA common starting point for defining the quality of conceptual model is to look at the linguistic properties of the modeling language of which syntax and semantics are most often applied.\n\nAlso the broader approach is to be based on semiotics rather than linguistic as was done by Krogstie using the top-down quality framework known as SEQUAL. It defines several quality aspects based on relationships between a model, knowledge Externalisation, domain, a modeling language, and the activities of learning, taking action, and modeling.\n\nThe framework does not however provide ways to determine various degrees of quality but has been used extensively for business process modeling in empirical tests carried out \nAccording to previous research done by Moody \"et al.\" with use of conceptual model quality framework proposed by Lindland \"et al.\" (1994) to evaluate quality of process model, three levels of quality were identified:\n\n\nFrom the research it was noticed that the quality framework was found to be both easy to use and useful in evaluating the quality of process models however it had limitations in regards to reliability and difficult to identify defects. These limitations led to refinement of the framework through subsequent research done by Krogstie. This framework is called SEQUEL framework by Krogstie \"et al.\" 1995 (Refined further by Krogstie & Jørgensen, 2002) which included three more quality aspects.\n\n\nDimensions of Conceptual Quality framework\nModeling Domain is the set of all statements that are relevant and correct for describing a problem domain, Language Extension is the set of all statements that are possible given the grammar and vocabulary of the modeling languages used. Model Externalization is the conceptual representation of the problem domain.\n\nIt is defined as the set of statements about the problem domain that are actually made. Social Actor Interpretation and Technical Actor Interpretation are the sets of statements that actors both human model users and the tools that interact with the model, respectively 'think' the conceptual representation of the problem domain contains.\n\nFinally, Participant Knowledge is the set of statements that human actors, who are involved in the modeling process, believe should be made to represent the problem domain. These quality dimensions were later divided into two groups that deal with physical and social aspects of the model.\n\nIn later work, Krogstie et al. stated that while the extension of the SEQUAL framework has fixed some of the limitation of the initial framework, however other limitation remain .\nIn particular, the framework is too static in its view upon semantic quality, mainly considering models, not modeling activities, and comparing these models to a static domain rather than seeing the model as a facilitator for changing the domain.\n\nAlso, the framework's definition of pragmatic quality is quite narrow, focusing on understanding, in line with the semiotics of Morris, while newer research in linguistics and semiotics has focused beyond mere understanding, on how the model is used and affects its interpreters.\n\nThe need for a more dynamic view in the semiotic quality framework is particularly evident when considering process models, which themselves often prescribe or even enact actions in the problem domain, hence a change to the model may also change the problem domain directly. This paper discusses the quality framework in relation to active process models and suggests a revised framework based on this.\n\nFurther work by Krogstie \"et al.\" (2006) to revise SEQUAL framework to be more appropriate for active process models by redefining physical quality with a more narrow interpretation than previous research.\n\nThe other framework in use is Guidelines of Modeling (GoM) based on general accounting principles include the six principles: Correctness, Clarity deals with the comprehensibility and explicitness (System description) of model systems.\nComprehensibility relates to graphical arrangement of the information objects and, therefore, supports the understand ability of a model.\nRelevance relates to the model and the situation being presented. Comparability involves the ability to compare models that is semantic comparison between two models, Economic efficiency; the produced cost of the design process need at least to be covered by the proposed use of cost cuttings and revenue increases.\n\nSince the purpose of organizations in most cases is the maximization of profit, the principle defines the borderline for the modeling process. The last principle is Systematic design defines that there should be an accepted differentiation between diverse views within modeling.\nCorrectness, relevance and economic efficiency are prerequisites in the quality of models and must be fulfilled while the remaining guidelines are optional but necessary.\n\nThe two frameworks SEQUAL and GOM have a limitation of use in that they cannot be used by people who are not competent with modeling. They provide major quality metrics but are not easily applicable by non-experts.\n\nThe use of bottom-up metrics related to quality aspects of process models is trying to bridge the gap of use of the other two frameworks by non-experts in modeling but it is mostly theoretical and no empirical tests have been carried out to support their use.\n\nMost experiments carried out relate to the relationship between metrics and quality aspects and these works have been done individually by different authors: Canfora et al. study the connection mainly between count metrics (for example, the number of tasks or splits -and maintainability of software process models); Cardoso validates the correlation between control flow complexity and perceived complexity; and Mendling et al. use metrics to predict control flow errors such as deadlocks in process models.\n\nThe results reveal that an increase in size of a model appears to reduce its quality and comprehensibility.\nFurther work by Mendling et al. investigates the connection between metrics and understanding and While some metrics are confirmed regarding their effect, also personal factors of the modeler – like competence – are revealed as important for understanding about the models.\n\nSeveral empirical surveys carried out still do not give clear guidelines or ways of evaluating the quality of process models but it is necessary to have clear set of guidelines to guide modelers in this task. Pragmatic guidelines have been proposed by different practitioners even though it is difficult to provide an exhaustive account of such guidelines from practice.\nIn, 10 tips for process modeling are summarized, many technical definitions and rules are provided, but it does not teach how to create process models that are effective in their primary mission - maximizing shared understanding of the as-is or to-be process.\nMost of the guidelines are not easily put to practice but \"label activities verb–noun\" rule has been suggested by other practitioners before and analyzed empirically.\nFrom the research. value of process models is not only dependent on the choice of graphical constructs but also on their annotation with textual labels which need to be analyzed. It was found that it results in better models in terms of understanding than alternative labelling styles.\n\nFrom the earlier research and ways to evaluate process model quality it has been seen that the process model's size, structure, expertise of the modeler and modularity affect its overall comprehensibility.\n\n\n7PMG still though has limitations with its use: Validity problem 7PMG does not relate to the content of a process model, but only to the way this content is organized and represented.\nIt does suggest ways of organizing different structures of the process model while the content is kept intact but the pragmatic issue of what must be included in the model is still left out.\nThe second limitation relates to the prioritizing guideline the derived ranking has a small empirical basis as it relies on the involvement of 21 process modelers only.\n\nThis could be seen on the one hand as a need for a wider involvement of process modelers' experience, but it also rises the question what alternative approaches may be available to arrive at a prioritizing guideline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2378747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2378747", "title": "Raimon Panikkar", "text": "Raimon Panikkar\n\nRaimon Panikkar Alemany, also known as Raimundo Panikkar and Raymond Panikkar (November 2, 1918 – August 26, 2010), was a Catalan Roman Catholic priest and a proponent of inter-religious dialogue. As a scholar, he specialized in comparative religion.\n\nRaimon Panikkar was born as the son of a Spanish Roman Catholic mother and a Hindu Indian father in Barcelona. His mother was well-educated and from the Catalan bourgeoisie. His father, Ramunni Panikkar, belonged to Malabar Nair family from South India. Panikkar's father was a freedom fighter during British colonial rule in India and escaped from Britain and married into a Catalan family. Panikkar's father studied in England and was the representative of a German chemical company in Barcelona. \n\nEducated at a Jesuit school, Panikkar studied chemistry and philosophy at the universities of Barcelona, Bonn and Madrid, and Catholic Theology in Madrid and Rome. He earned a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Madrid in 1946 and a doctorate in chemistry in 1958. He earned a third doctorate in theology at the Pontifical Lateran University in Rome in 1961. He compared St. Thomas Aquinas's Philosophy with the eighth-century Hindu philosopher Ādi Śańkara's Interpretation of the Brahma Sutras.\n\nIn 1946 he was ordained a Catholic priest, and became a professor of philosophy at the University of Madrid.\n\nHe made his first trip to India in 1954 where he studied Indian philosophy and religion at the University of Mysore and Banaras Hindu University, where he met several Western monks seeking Eastern forms for the expression of their Christian beliefs. \"I left Europe [for India] as a Christian, I discovered I was a Hindu and returned as a Buddhist without ever having ceased to be Christian,\" he later wrote.\n\nWhile in Jerusalem during 1962, he was summoned to Rome by Opus Dei founder and director, Saint Josemaría Escrivá, who expelled him after a brief trial where he was charged with disobedience to the organization.\n\nIn 1966 he became a visiting professor at Harvard Divinity School and a professor of religious studies at University of California, Santa Barbara in 1972. For many years he taught in the spring and spent the rest of the year doing research in India. Where the typical approach to Cross-Cultural Religious Studies, especially in a secular university, was to hold two or more traditions at arm's length and draw lines of comparison between them, Panikkar's approach was to view issues in the real world through the eyes of two or more traditions.\n\nIn 1987 he moved to Tavertet in Catalonia, in the hills north of Barcelona, where he founded the Raimon Panikkar Vivarium Foundation, a center for intercultural studies. \nIn 2005 he creates Arbor for the realization of his principle of interreligious collaboration for the relief of poverty in thousands of villages of India \n\nPanikkar authored more than 40 books and 900 articles. His complete works are being published in Italian. His 1989 Gifford Lectures were published in English by Orbis in 2009 under the title \"The Rhythm of Being.\"\n\nIn a statement from his residence in Tavertet dated January 26, 2010, he wrote: \"Dear Friends . . . I would like to communicate with you that I believe the moment has come, (put off time and again), to withdraw from all public activity, both the direct and the intellectual participation, to which I have dedicated all my life as a way of sharing my reflections. I will continue to be close to you in a deeper way, through silence and prayer, and in the same way I would ask you to be close to me in this last period of my existence. You have often heard me say that a person is a knot in a network of relationships; in taking my leave from you I would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for having enriched me with the relationship I have had with each of you. I am also grateful to all of those who, either in person or through association, continue working to spread my message and the sharing of my ideals, even without me. Thankful for the gift of life which is only such if lived in communion with others: it is with this spirit that I have lived out my ministry.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6259011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6259011", "title": "Seleucians", "text": "Seleucians\n\nThe Seleucians were an ancient Gnostic sect who are said to have flourished in Galatia.\nThey derived their name from a Seleucus, who with a certain Hermias is said to have propounded and taught their beliefs. According to Philastrius (\"Diversarum Hereseon Liber\", LV), the teaching of these beliefs was based on the crudest form of dualism. While they maintained that God was incorporeal, they asserted that matter was coeternal with Him. They exceeded the usual dualistic tenets in attributing evil to God as well as to matter. In their system the souls of men were not created by God, but were formed from earthly components -fire and air- by angels.\nChrist, they said, did not sit at the right hand of the Father in Heaven because (Psalm xviii, 6) \"He hath set his tabernacle in the sun\" must be interpreted to mean that Christ left His body in the sun. They did not practise baptism, basing their refusal to do so on the words of John the Baptist (Matthew 3:11): \"He shall baptize you in the Holy Ghost and fire\". By hell they understood this present world, while Resurrection they explained as being merely the procreation over death with the expectation of a glorious immortality.\nThe doctrines of Seleucus and his adherents were the source of another series of doctrines taught by some of their disciples who called themselves Prolinianites or Hermeonites. These latter rejected the dogmas of the Resurrection and Last Judgment. According to Philastrius they 'perverted' (i.e. converted) large numbers.\n\nA great deal of uncertainty exists regarding the history and real cause of the fact that the doctrines of the Seleucians so closely resembled those of Hermogenes, and because Hermogenes is not mentioned by Philastrius, conclude that these two were one and the same system of belief. This assumption is plausible but there are vital differences between the teaching of Hermogenes and that of the Seleucians as, for example, on the subject of Christ as Creator which, together with the virgin birth, was admitted by Hermogenes. If any weight is to be attached to a method of chronology which seems rather arbitrary, the date assigned by Philastrius to the Seleucians, viz. after the reign of Decius, would exclude the supposition that he confounded them with the followers of Hermogenes.\n"}
{"id": "2696277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696277", "title": "Shotgun email", "text": "Shotgun email\n\nShotgun email refers to an email requesting information or action that only requires the efforts of one person but is sent to multiple people in an effort to guarantee that at least one person will respond. The shotgun email often results in multiple people responding to something already accomplished and therefore results in a loss of overall productivity. Shotgun emailing is considered poor internet etiquette.\n\nAn example would be a person of authority in a business organization sending out an email to five technicians in the information technology department of his company to let them know his printer is broken. One technician responds with an on-site call and fixes the problem. Later in the day, other technicians follow-up to fix the printer that is already back in order. Shotgun emails can also be request for information or other tasks.\n\nThe blind shotgun email occurs when the sender uses the blind co-copy feature of an email program to hide the fact that a shotgun email is in use. This is considered particularly deceitful.\n\n"}
{"id": "41815531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815531", "title": "The \"Me\" Decade and the Third Great Awakening", "text": "The \"Me\" Decade and the Third Great Awakening\n\n\"The Me Decade and the Third Great Awakening\" is an essay by American author Tom Wolfe, in which Wolfe coined the phrase Me' Decade\", a term that became common as a descriptor for the decade of the 1970s. The essay was first published as the cover story in the August 23, 1976 issue of \"New York\" magazine and later appeared in his collection \"Mauve Gloves & Madmen, Clutter & Vine\".\n\nIn one of the essay's most famous passages, exemplifying his style of description, Wolfe called Jimmy Carter a \"Missionary lectern-pounding Amen ten-finger C-major-chord Sister-Martha-at-the-Yamaha-keyboard loblolly piney-woods Baptist.\"\n\nThe term \"'Me' Decade\" describes a general new attitude of Americans in the 1970s, in the direction of atomized individualism and away from communitarianism, in clear contrast with social values prevalent in the United States during the 1960s.\n\nWolfe asserts the disappearance of the socioeconomic class he calls the \"proletariat\", in parallel with the concurrent appearance of an American \"lower middle class\". He cites the economic boom of postwar America as affording the average American a new sense of self-determination and individuation associated with the widespread economic prosperity. Wolfe describes the resulting abandoning of communal, progressive, and New Deal-style politics as \"taking the money and running\". He traces the preoccupation with self and self-development back to the aristocratic European gentry. Wolfe states that the \"chivalric tradition\" and the philosophy behind \"the finishing school\" are inherently dedicated to the building and forming of personal character and conduct.\n\nWolfe believes that the counterculture of the 1960s and the New Left school of thought promoted a recovery of the self in a flawed and corrupt America, a philosophy extended in the 1970s with a spreading idea that use of the drug LSD, commonly known as \"acid\", would unveil a true and real self. He describes the revelatory experience of hallucinogens as similar to, even competitive with, religious ecstasy, transforming the religious climate in America. Wolfe chronicles the American periods of Christian revival known as the First and Second Great Awakenings, to which he analogizes the 1970s and their dominant social trends. He argues that the \"Me\" Decade of the 1970s is a \"Third Great Awakening\".\n\nIn his influential work \"The Culture of Narcissism\", cultural historian Christopher Lasch states that Wolfe \"inadvertedly provides evidence that undermines a religious interpretation of the \"conscioussness movement\"\" and quotes Wolfe as saying \"most people, historically, have \"not\" lived their lives as if thinking \"I have only one life to live\". Instead they lived as if they were living their ancestors' and their offspring's lives\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27847619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27847619", "title": "The Religion of Man", "text": "The Religion of Man\n\nThe Religion of Man is a 1931 compilation of lectures by Rabindranath Tagore, edited by him and drawn largely from his Hibbert Lectures given at Oxford University in May 1930. A Brahmo playwright and poet of global renown, Tagore deals with largely universal themes of God, divine experience, illumination, and spirituality. A brief conversation between him and Albert Einstein, \"Note on the Nature of Reality\", is included as an appendix.\n\nAnother compilation of three lectures on roughly the same set of subjects, delivered in 1933 as his Kamala Lectures at the University of Calcutta, was published in Bengali under the same name ().\n\n\nAppendix:\n\nIndex\n\n"}
{"id": "211627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211627", "title": "Thomas Hill Green", "text": "Thomas Hill Green\n\nThomas Hill Green (7 April 1836 – 15 March 1882), known as T. H. Green, was an English philosopher, political radical and temperance reformer, and a member of the British idealism movement. Like all the British idealists, Green was influenced by the metaphysical historicism of G. W. F. Hegel. He was one of the thinkers behind the philosophy of social liberalism.\n\nGreen was born at Birkin, in the West Riding of Yorkshire, England, where his father was rector. On his paternal side, he was descended from Oliver Cromwell. His education was conducted entirely at home until, at the age of 14, he entered Rugby, where he remained for five years.\n\nIn 1855, he became an undergraduate member of Balliol College, Oxford, and was elected fellow in 1860. He began a life of teaching (mainly philosophical) in the university – first as college tutor, afterwards, from 1878 until his death, as Whyte's Professor of Moral Philosophy.\n\nThe lectures he delivered as professor form the substance of his two most important works, viz., the \"Prolegomena to Ethics\" and the \"Lectures on the Principles of Political Obligation\", which contain the whole of his positive constructive teaching. These works were not published until after his death, but Green's views were previously known indirectly through the \"Introduction\" to the standard edition of David Hume's works by Green and T. H. Grose, fellow of Queen's College, in which the doctrine of the \"English\" or \"empirical\" philosophy was exhaustively examined.\n\nIn 1879, Green sat in the committee which was formed to create an Oxford women's college \"in which no distinction will be made between students on the ground of their belonging to different religious denominations.\" This resulted in the founding of Somerville Hall (later Somerville College).\n\nGreen was involved in local politics for many years, through the University, temperance societies and the local Oxford Liberal association. During the passage of the Second Reform Act, he campaigned for the franchise to be extended to all men living in boroughs even if they did not own real property. In that sense, Green's position was more radical than that of most other Advanced Liberals, including William Ewart Gladstone.\n\nIt was in the context of his Liberal Party activities that in 1881, Green gave what became one of his most famous statements of his liberal political philosophy, the \"Lecture on Liberal Legislation and Freedom of Contract\". At this time, he was also lecturing on religion, epistemology, ethics and political philosophy.\n\nMost of his major works were published posthumously, including his lay sermons on \"Faith and The Witness of God\", the essay \"On the Different Senses of 'Freedom' as Applied to Will and the Moral Progress of Man\", \"Prolegomena to Ethics\", \"Lectures on the Principles of Political Obligation\", and the \"Lecture on Liberal Legislation and Freedom of Contract\".\n\nGreen died of blood poisoning at 45. In addition to friends from his academic life, approximately 2,000 local townspeople attended his funeral.\n\nHe helped to found the City of Oxford High School for Boys.\n\nHume's empiricism and biological evolution (including Herbert Spencer) were chief features in English thought during the third quarter of the 19th century. Green represents primarily the reaction against such doctrines. Green argued that when these doctrines were carried to their logical conclusion, they not only \"rendered all philosophy futile\", but were fatal to practical life. By reducing the human mind to a series of unrelated atomic sensations, these related teachings destroyed the possibility of knowledge, he argued. These teachings were especially important for Green to refute because they had underpinned the conception of mind that was held by the nascent science of psychology. Green tried to deflate the pretensions of psychologists who had claimed that their young field would provide a scientific replacement for traditional epistemology and metaphysics.\n\nGreen further objected that such empiricists represented a person as a \"being who is simply the result of natural forces\", and thereby made conduct, or any theory of conduct, meaningless; for life in any human, intelligible sense implies a personal self that (1) knows what to do, and (2) has power to do it. Green was thus driven, not theoretically, but as a practical necessity, to raise again the whole question of humankind in relation to nature. When (he held) we have discovered what a person in themselves are, and what their relation to their environment is, we shall then know their function—what they are fitted to do. In the light of this knowledge, we shall be able to formulate the moral code, which, in turn, will serve as a criterion of actual civic and social institutions. These form, naturally and necessarily, the objective expression of moral ideas, and it is in some civic or social whole that the moral ideal must finally take concrete shape.\n\nTo ask \"What is man?\" is to ask \"What is experience?\" for experience means that of which I am conscious. The facts of consciousness are the only facts that, to begin with, we are justified in asserting to exist. On the other hand, they are valid evidence for whatever is necessary to their own explanation, i.e. for whatever is logically involved in them. Now the most striking characteristic of humans, that in fact which marks them specially, as contrasted with other animals, is self-consciousness. The simplest mental act into which we can analyse the operations of the human mind—the act of sense-perception—is never merely a change, physical or psychical, but is the consciousness of a change.\n\nHuman experience consists, not of processes in an animal organism, but of these processes recognised as such. That which we perceive is from the outset an apprehended fact—that is to say, it cannot be analysed into isolated elements (so-called sensations) which, as such, are not constituents of consciousness at all, but exist from the first as a synthesis of relations in a consciousness which keeps distinct the \"self\" and the various elements of the \"object,\" though holding all together in the unity of the act of perception. In other words, the whole mental structure we call knowledge consists, in its simplest equally with its most complex constituents, of the \"work of the mind.\" Locke and Hume held that the work of the mind was \"eo ipso\" [by that very act] unreal because it was \"made by\" humans and not \"given to\" humans. It thus represented a subjective creation, not an objective fact. But this consequence follows only upon the assumption that the work of the mind is arbitrary, an assumption shown to be unjustified by the results of exact science, with the distinction, universally recognised, which such science draws between truth and falsehood, between the real and \"mere ideas.\" This (obviously valid) distinction logically involves the consequence that the object, or content, of knowledge, viz., reality, is an intelligible ideal reality, a system of thought relations, a spiritual cosmos. How is the existence of this ideal whole to be accounted for? Only by the existence of some \"principle which renders all relations possible and is itself determined by none of them\"; an eternal self-consciousness which knows in whole what we know in part. To God the world is, to humans the world becomes. Human experience is God gradually made manifest.\n\nCarrying on the same method into the area of moral philosophy, Green argued that ethics applies to the conditions of social life—that investigation into human nature which metaphysics began. The faculty employed in this further investigation is no \"separate moral faculty,\" but that same reason which is the source of all our knowledge – ethical and other.\n\nSelf-reflection gradually reveals to us human capacity, human function, with, consequently, human responsibility. It brings out into clear consciousness certain potentialities in the realisation of which human's true good must consist. As the result of this analysis, combined with an investigation into the surroundings humans live in, a \"content\"—a moral code—becomes gradually evolved. Personal good is perceived to be realisable only by making real and actual the conceptions thus arrived at. So long as these remain potential or ideal, they form the motive of action; motive consisting always in the idea of some \"end\" or \"good\" that humans present to themselves as an end in the attainment of which he would be satisfied; that is, in the realisation of which he would find his true self.\n\nThe determination to realise the self in some definite way constitutes an \"act of will,\" which, as thus constituted, is neither arbitrary nor externally determined. For the motive which may be said to be its cause lies in the person himself, and the identification of the self with such a motive is a self-determination, which is at once both rational and free. The \"freedom of man\" is constituted, not by a supposed ability to do anything he may choose, but in the power to identify himself with that true good that reason reveals to him as his true good.\n\nThis good consists in the realisation of personal character; hence the final good, i.e. the moral ideal, as a whole, can be realised only in some society of persons who, while remaining ends to themselves in the sense that their individuality is not lost but rendered more perfect, find this perfection attainable only when the separate individualities are integrated as part of a social whole.\n\nSociety is as necessary to form persons as persons are to constitute society. Social union is the indispensable condition of the development of the special capacities of its individual members. Human self-perfection cannot be gained in isolation; it is attainable only in inter-relation with fellow-citizens in the social community.\n\nThe law of our being, so revealed, involves in its turn civic or political duties. Moral goodness cannot be limited to, still less constituted by, the cultivation of self-regarding virtues, but consists in the attempt to realise in practice that moral ideal that self-analysis has revealed to us as our ideal. From this fact arises the ground of political obligation, because the institutions of political or civic life are the concrete embodiment of moral ideas in terms of our day and generation. But, since society exists only for the proper development of Persons, we have a criterion by which to test these institutions—namely, do they, or do they not, contribute to the development of moral character in the individual citizens?\n\nIt is obvious that the final moral ideal is not realised in any body of civic institutions actually existing, but the same analysis that demonstrates this deficiency points out the direction that a true development will take.\n\nHence arises the conception of rights and duties that should be maintained by law, as opposed to those actually maintained; with the further consequence that it may become occasionally a moral duty to rebel against the state in the interest of the state itself—that is, in order better to subserve that end or function that constitutes the \"raison d'être\" of the state. There exists a \"general will\" that is a desire for a common good that cannot be easily reconciled as there is an antagonism between the \"common good\" and the \"private good\": such as: \"... interest in the common good, in some of its various forms, is necessary to produce that good, and to neutralise or render useful other desires and interests\". Its basis is can be conceived as coercive authority imposed upon the citizens from without or it can be seen as a necessary restriction of individual liberty in light of a social contract, but this consists in the spiritual recognition or metaphysics, on the part of the citizens, of what constitutes their true nature, some conceptions and complicating factors are elaborating questions concerning: \"Will, not force, is the basis of the state.\", \"Citizen Rights Against the State\", \"Private Rights. The Right to Life and Liberty\", \"The Right of the State Over the Individual in War\", \"The Right of the State to Punish\", \"The Right of the State to Promote Morality \", \"The Right of the State in Regard to Property\", and \"The Right of the State in Regard to the Family\".\n\nGreen believed that the state should foster and protect the social, political and economic environments in which individuals will have the best chance of acting according to their consciences. But the state must be careful when deciding which liberties to curtail and in which ways to curtail them. Over-enthusiastic or clumsy state intervention could easily close down opportunities for conscientious action thereby stifling the moral development of the individual. The state should intervene only where there is a clear, proven and strong tendency of a liberty to enslave the individual. Even when such a hazard had been identified, Green tended to favour action by the affected community itself rather than national state action itself — local councils and municipal authorities tended to produce measures that were more imaginative and better suited to the daily reality of a social problem. Hence he favoured the \"local option\" where local people decided on the issuing of liquor licences in their area, through their town councils.\n\nGreen stressed the need for specific solutions to be tailored to fit specific problems. He stressed that there are no eternal solutions, no timeless division of responsibilities between national and local governmental units. The distribution of responsibilities should be guided by the imperative to enable as many individuals as possible to exercise their conscientious wills in particular contingent circumstances, as only in this way was it possible to foster individual self-realisation in the long-run. Deciding on the distribution of responsibilities was more a matter for practical politics than for ethical or political philosophy. Experience may show that the local and municipal levels are unable to control the harmful influences of, say, the brewery industry. When it did show this, the national state should take responsibility for this area of public policy.\n\nGreen argued that the ultimate power to decide on the allocation of such tasks should rest with the national state (in Britain, for instance, embodied in Parliament). The national state itself is legitimate for Green to the extent that it upholds a system of rights and obligations that is most likely to foster individual self-realisation. Yet, the most appropriate structure of this system is determined neither by purely political calculation nor by philosophical speculation. It is more accurate to say that it arose from the underlying conceptual and normative structure of one's particular society.\n\nGreen's teaching was, directly and indirectly, the most potent philosophical influence in England during the last quarter of the 19th century, while his enthusiasm for a common citizenship, and his personal example in practical municipal life, inspired much of the effort made in the years succeeding his death to bring the universities more into touch with the people, and to break down the rigour of class distinctions. His ideas spread to the University of St. Andrews through the influence of Prof. David George Ritchie, a former student of his, who eventually helped found the Aristotelian Society. John Dewey wrote a number of early essays on Green's thought, including \"Self-Realization as the Moral Ideal\".\n\nGreen was directly cited by many social liberal politicians, such as Herbert Samuel and H. H. Asquith, as an influence on their thought. It is no coincidence that these politicians were educated at Balliol College, Oxford. Roy Hattersley called for Green's work to be applied to the problems of 21st century Britain.\n\nGreen's most important treatise—the \"Prolegomena to Ethics\", practically complete in manuscript at his death—was published in the year following, under the editorship of A. C. Bradley (4th ed., 1899). Shortly afterwards, R. L. Nettleship's standard edition of his \"Works\" (exclusive of the \"Prolegomena\") appeared in three volumes:\n\n\nAll three volumes are available for download at Internet Archive\n\nThe \"Principles of Political Obligation\" was afterwards published in separate form. A criticism of Neo-Hegelianism will be found in Andrew Seth (Pringle Pattison), \"Hegelianism and Personality\" (1887).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31075772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31075772", "title": "Thought identification", "text": "Thought identification\n\nThought identification refers to the empirically verified use of technology to, in some sense, read people's minds. Advances in research have made this possible by using human neuroimaging to decode a person's conscious experience based on non-invasive measurements of an individual's brain activity.\n\nProfessor of neuropsychology Barbara Sahakian qualifies, \"A lot of neuroscientists in the field are very cautious and say we can't talk about reading individuals' minds, and right now that is very true, but we're moving ahead so rapidly, it's not going to be that long before we will be able to tell whether someone's making up a story, or whether someone intended to do a crime with a certain degree of certainty.\"\n\nPsychologist John-Dylan Haynes experienced breakthroughs in brain imaging research in 2006 by using fMRI. This research included new findings on visual object recognition, tracking dynamic mental processes, lie detecting, and decoding unconscious processing. The combination of these four discoveries revealed such a significant amount of information about an individual's thoughts that Haynes termed it \"brain reading\".\n\nThe fMRI has allowed research to expand by significant amounts because it can track the activity in an individual's brain by measuring the brain's blood flow. It is currently thought to be the best method for measuring brain activity, which is why it has been used in multiple research experiments in order to improve the understanding of how doctors and psychologists can identify thoughts.\n\nThe term \"thought identification\" started being used in 2009 after neuroscientist Marcel Just coined it in a 60 Minutes interview. His reasoning for this term pertains to his overall goal of his research \"to see if they could identify exactly what happens in the brain when people think specific thoughts\".\n\nWhen humans think of an object, such as a screwdriver, many different areas of the brain activate. Marcel Just and his colleague, Tom Mitchell, have used fMRI brain scans to teach a computer to identify the various parts of the brain associated with specific thoughts.\n\nThis technology also yielded a discovery: similar thoughts in different human brains are surprisingly similar neurologically. To illustrate this, Just and Mitchell used their computer to predict, based on nothing but fMRI data, which of several images a volunteer was thinking about. The computer was 100% accurate, but so far the machine is only distinguishing between 10 images.\n\nJohn-Dylan Haynes states that fMRI can also be used to identify recognition in the brain. He provides the example of a criminal being interrogated about whether he recognizes the scene of the crime or murder weapons. Just and Mitchell also claim they are beginning to be able to identify kindness, hypocrisy, and love in the brain. In 2008 IBM applied for a patent on how to extract mental images of human faces from the human brain. It uses a feedback loop based on brain measurements of the fusiform gyrus area in the brain which activates proportionate with degree of facial recognition.\n\nIn 2011, a team led by Shinji Nishimoto used only brain recordings to partially reconstruct what volunteers were seeing. The researchers applied a new model, about how moving object information is processed in human brains, while volunteers watched clips from several videos. An algorithm searched through thousands of hours of external YouTube video footage (none of the videos were the same as the ones the volunteers watched) to select the clips that were most similar. The authors have uploaded demos comparing the watched and the computer-estimated videos.\n\nSome researchers in 2008 were able to predict, with 60% accuracy, whether a subject was going to push a button with their left or right hand. This is notable, not just because the accuracy is better than chance, but also because the scientists were able to make these predictions up to 10 seconds before the subject acted – well before the subject felt they had decided. This data is even more striking in light of other research suggesting that the decision to move, and possibly the ability to cancel that movement at the last second, may be the results of unconscious processing.\n\nJohn Dylan-Haynes has also demonstrated that fMRI can be used to identify whether a volunteer is about to add or subtract two numbers in their head.\n\nDecember 16, 2015, a study conducted by Toshimasa Yamazaki at Kyushu Institute of Technology found that during a rock-paper-scissors game a computer was able to determine the choice made by the subjects before they moved their hand. An EEG was used to measure activity in the Broca's area to \"see\" the words two seconds before the words were uttered.\n\nEmotiv Systems, an Australian electronics company, has demonstrated a headset that can be trained to recognize a user's thought patterns for different commands. Tan Le demonstrated the headset's ability to manipulate virtual objects on screen, and discussed various future applications for such brain-computer interface devices, from powering wheel chairs to replacing the mouse and keyboard.\n\nOn 31 January 2012 Brian Pasley and colleagues of University of California Berkeley published their paper in PLoS Biology wherein subjects' internal neural processing of auditory information was decoded and reconstructed as sound on computer by gathering and analyzing electrical signals directly from subjects' brains. The research team conducted their studies on the superior temporal gyrus, a region of the brain that is involved in higher order neural processing to make semantic sense from auditory information. The research team used a computer model to analyze various parts of the brain that might be involved in neural firing while processing auditory signals. Using the computational model, scientists were able to identify the brain activity involved in processing auditory information when subjects were presented with recording of individual words. Later, the computer model of auditory information processing was used to reconstruct some of the words back into sound based on the neural processing of the subjects. However the reconstructed sounds were not of good quality and could be recognized only when the audio wave patterns of the reconstructed sound were visually matched with the audio wave patterns of the original sound that was presented to the subjects. However this research marks a direction towards more precise identification of neural activity in cognition.\n\nIn 2013 a project led by University of California Berkeley professor John Chuang published findings on the feasibility of brainwave-based computer authentication as a substitute for passwords. Improvements in the use of biometrics for computer authentication has continually improved since the 1980s, but this research team was looking for a method faster and less intrusive than today's retina scans, fingerprinting, and voice recognition. The technology chosen to improve security measures is an electroencephalogram (EEG), or brainwave measurer, to improve passwords into \"pass thoughts.\" Using this method Chuang and his team were able to customize tasks and their authentication thresholds to the point where they were able to reduce error rates under 1%, significantly better than other recent methods. In order to better attract users to this new form of security the team is still researching mental tasks that are enjoyable for the user to perform while having their brainwaves identified. In the future this method could be as cheap, accessible, and straightforward as thought itself.\n\nWith brain scanning technology becoming increasingly accurate, experts predict important debates over how and when it should be used. One potential area of application is criminal law. Haynes states that simply refusing to use brain scans on suspects also prevents the wrongly accused from proving their innocence. It has been argued that allowing brain scans in the United States would violate the 5th Amendment's right to not self incriminate. One of thousands of important questions is whether brain imaging is like testimony, or instead like DNA, blood, or semen. Paul Root Wolpe, director of the Center for Ethics at Emory University in Atlanta predicts that this question will be decided by a Supreme Court case.\n\nIn other countries outside the United States, thought Identification has already been used in criminal law. In 2008 an Indian woman was convicted of murder after an EEG of her brain allegedly revealed that she was familiar with the circumstances surrounding the poisoning of her ex-fiancé. Some neuroscientists and legal scholars doubt the validity of using thought identification as a whole for anything past research on the nature of deception and the brain.\n\nExperts are unsure of how far thought identification can expand, but Marcel Just believed in 2014 that in 3–5 years there will be a machine that is able to read complex thoughts such as 'I hate so-and-so'.\n\nDonald Marks, founder and chief science officer of MMT, is working on playing back thoughts individuals have after they have already been recorded.\n\nResearchers at the University of California Berkeley have already been successful in forming, erasing, and reactivating memories in rats. Marks says they are working on applying the same techniques to humans. This discovery could be monumental for war veterans who suffer from PTSD.\n\nFurther research is also being done in analyzing brain activity during video games to detect criminals, neuromarketing, and using brain scans in government security checks.\n\n"}
{"id": "23642502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23642502", "title": "University of Illinois clout scandal", "text": "University of Illinois clout scandal\n\nThe University of Illinois clout scandal resulted from a series of articles in the \"Chicago Tribune\" which reported that some applicants to the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) \"received special consideration\" for acceptance between 2005 and 2009, despite having sub-par qualifications. The series began on May 29, 2009. An investigatory committee appointed by Illinois governor Pat Quinn was formed a few weeks later. The controversy led to the resignation of B. Joseph White, president of the University of Illinois, who oversaw the three campuses in the University system, and Richard Herman, chancellor of UIUC. The scandal eventually spread to include evidence of graft by members of the Board of Trustees, resulting in the resignation of seven of the nine members.\n\nOn May 29, 2009, the \"Chicago Tribune\" published \"Clout Goes to College,\" an article detailing preferential consideration to applicants with connections to politicians and university trustees. According to the article, some students were being admitted despite having sub-par qualifications. The investigation revealed that approximately 800 students over five years landed on the so-called \"clout list\" and, though not all were unworthy, the admission rate of these students was eight percentage points higher than the school average. One student was accepted into the graduate business school after having been rejected three times. Prior to acceptance, university officials did not confirm whether he had a bachelor's degree from an accredited university.\n\nA panel appointed by the governor to investigate the scandal found that the Board of Trustees had acted improperly and exerted continuing pressure on University officials. The panel \"put much of the blame on Richard Herman, chancellor of the university's flagship campus in Urbana-Champaign, saying his conduct was inconsistent with the university's 'principles of ethical conduct and fair dealing.'\" Many of the thousands of pages of e-mails and other documents released by the university in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request involved communication with Herman. The panel also found fault with University president B. Joseph White. Upon first release, the most notable student to receive special consideration was a relative of Tony Rezko, who was convicted on sixteen charges of fraud and bribery and was a political contributor to then-governor Rod Blagojevich. In one email, White wrote to Urbana chancellor Herman that Blagojevich \"has expressed his support, and would like to see admitted\" two applicants, including Rezko's relative. The university had rejected the application of Rezko's relative earlier in the day, but later reversed the decision despite poor ACT scores. Other state officials implicated in providing special influence over admissions were Illinois Senate president John Cullerton, House Speaker Michael Madigan, state treasurer Alexi Giannoulias, U.S. Representative Tim Johnson, and Illinois Representatives Bill Mitchell and Chapin Rose.\n\nMost of the students who benefited from political connections came from elite and affluent high schools. Among the least connected were students who attended Chicago Public Schools. Wealthier schools already had an advantage due to families who had political connections to elected officials and university trustees. High schools that had the most applicants on the clout list included Highland Park High School, Deerfield High School, New Trier High School, Glenbrook North High School, Glenbrook South High School, Loyola Academy, St. Ignatius College Preparatory School, Fenwick High School, Benet Academy, Hinsdale Central High School, Carl Sandburg High School, and York Community High School.\n\nThe University is overseen by a Board of Trustees consisting of nine members appointed by the governor for six-year terms, as well as three students. The Board oversees the operation of the three campuses and is intended to be a watchdog of and advocate for the University. Trustee Larry Eppley, board chairman from 2002-2008, was the first to resign, with a higher number of admissions request than any other member. The next chairman of the board, Niranjan Shah, announced his resignation from the board thereafter amid allegations that he had meddled with applications and had pressured the university to hire one of his relatives. Trustees Ed McMillan, David Doris, Robert Vickrey, Devon Bruce, and Kenneth Schmidt followed. Only James Montgomery and Francis Carroll held out.\n\nWhite stated on May 29, 2009 that, \"There's no secret clout list. The Tribune invented the term 'secret clout list'.\" White stated the following day, \"To the extent some problems were pointed out, we can and will correct them.\" University Chancellor Richard Herman also pledged to investigate the findings.\n\nOn June 10, 2009 Illinois governor Pat Quinn announced that he appointed a panel to investigate the allegations, led by former judge Abner Mikva. The investigation confirmed that the university filed some students as \"Category I\" applicants, meaning that they had connections from influential individuals. Their applications were designated with a red stripe. State Senator Kirk Dillard later proposed a bill that would immediately fire all nine university trustees. The university law school responded by forbidding any inquiries on admission status unless made by the applicant. According to the former law Dean Heidi Hurd, the law school admitted \"about 15 students\" from the clout list during her five-year tenure. When Hurd emailed Herman about one candidate who was particularly poorly-qualified, Herman stated that university trustees would find jobs for five students after graduation to preserve the school's ranking.\n\nAlthough Hurd claimed in a letter to the \"Chicago Tribune\" that the portions of her e-mail exchanges with Herman appearing to be quid-pro-quo deals were purely sarcastic, the chairman of the commission investigating the scandal, ex-federal judge Abner Mikva, dismissed Herman's claims that the comments were 'sarcastic and facetious'.\n\nOn July 6, 2009 several law faculty collectively wrote an open letter to the Tribune, protesting the coverage as incomplete, biased and inflammatory.\n\nDuring a hearing on July 27, 2009 at the Beckman Center on the Champaign-Urbana campus, White stated in response to a question that he had informed the chancellor of the Urbana campus of the application of a relative.\n\nPatrick Fitzgerald, who prosecuted Blagojevich on corruption charges, also subpoenaed Northern Illinois University and Southern Illinois University regarding correspondence between the former governor and admission offices. The Southern Illinois University School of Law on the Carbondale campus revealed that Blagojevich submitted letters of recommendation for two students, but neither was admitted.\n\nThe commission led by Mikva found that trustees, deans, White, and Herman, all contributed to \"substantial...admission-related abuses and irregularities.\"\n\nThe panel's recommendation include, but are not limited to:\n\nGovernor Patrick Quinn announced the following day that he would undertake the panel's recommendation and called for the resignations of all trustees. Former chairman Larry Eppley (appointed by Blagojevich) had already resigned, as had then recently appointed chairman Niranjan Shah (also appointed by Blagojevich). Trustee McMillan tendered his resignation in accordance with the panel's finding. David Doris, Robert Vickrey, Devon Bruce, and Kenneth Schmidt also resigned, leaving two hold outs.\n\nOn October 3, 2009, the University Board of Trustees accepted the resignation of President White (see related section) as of the end of the year. White timed his resignation to free the University from paying a $475,000 bonus that would have been due to him in February. Christopher Kennedy, who had taken over as Board chairman, said of White, \"He is a class act and I think his decision today will contribute to his reputation.\" In accepting White's resignation, the Board named as a temporary replacement Stanley Ikenberry. Ikenberry had been president at the university from 1979 through 1995.\n\nAt White's final Board of Trustees meeting on November 11, 2009, he shared a September 24, 2009 letter from Judge Abner J. Mikva stating, \"I was sad to learn that you are resigning as President of the University.\" Judge Mikva added, \"Everything that came out during the investigation by the University of Illinois Admissions Review Commission that I headed indicated that you always had the best interests of the University as the basis for your actions.\" He concluded, \"You are a person of great integrity and worthy of great respect.\" On January 21, 2010, the Board of Trustees appointed White President Emeritus of the University of Illinois. White also continued to assist the University's \"Brilliant Futures\" fundraising campaign. More than $1.71 billion of the campaign's $2.25 billion goal had been raised under White's leadership at the time of his resignation. White also retained his faculty position at the University.\n\nThe University of Illinois Board of Trustees then named Michael J. Hogan, formerly the president of the University of Connecticut, to succeed Ikenberry and become the permanent president of the University of Illinois. Hogan later resigned on March 23, 2012 \"...after months of turmoil, a faculty mutiny and a scandal in the president's office...\" having lasted 20 months in the position. The University then said veteran administrator Bob Easter would take over the presidency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55822643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55822643", "title": "Ursula Coope", "text": "Ursula Coope\n\nUrsula Coope is a British professor of ancient philosophy. Since 2017, she holds the Professorship of Ancient Philosophy in the Faculty of Philosophy, University of Oxford and is a professorial fellow of Keble College, Oxford. Previously she was a tutorial fellow and professor of ancient philosophy at Corpus Christi College, Oxford and global distinguished professor at New York University. \n\nIn 1992, Coope graduated with a B.A. in philosophy, politics and economics at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. In 1999 she was awarded her PhD in philosophy at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\n"}
{"id": "53619089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53619089", "title": "Utopia for Realists (book)", "text": "Utopia for Realists (book)\n\nUtopia for Realists: How We Can Build the Ideal World is a book by Rutger Bregman (born 1988). It was originally written as articles in Dutch for a virtual journal, and since compiled and translated into several languages. It offers a critical proposal that it claims is a practical approach to reconstructing modern society to promote a more productive and equitable life based an three core ideas:\n\nAs a result of the advance of international trade and economic science in recent decades, globalization has radically transformed the traditional social and economic order from smaller, connected nations to a new world economy which, while already demonstrably capable of rescuing millions of people from poverty, could be extended to the entire human race.\n\nHowever, the new global system unfairly compensates a few rich countries, and, with the progressive substitution of human capital with automation and robotics, has also generated an increase in inequality, both between the investment community and its workforce within the G20 nations as well as between developed countries and their developing neighbours.\n\nEach idea is supported by multiple academic studies and anecdotal evidence including numerous success stories. \nFor example, it quotes \n\nBregman points out that many imperatives of modern law were once highly controversial proposals, perhaps even abhorrent innovations: \n\nThe author finally tries to provide a critical balance between socialist ideals of caring and sharing, the conservative impetus of directive leadership, and liberal concepts of equality and freedom. He claims there are proven solutions waiting to be implemented, lacking only political courage and financial backing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1406124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406124", "title": "Westernesse", "text": "Westernesse\n\nWesternesse is a fictional kingdom in the Middle English romance of \"King Horn\". It has been associated with various regions in the British Isles, among which are Isle of Man and the Wirral district in Cheshire.\n\nWhether or not Westernesse should be identified with one or more real-world locations remains, however, a point of dispute, since the narrative contains little geographic detail, and only vaguely echoes historical events.\n\nIn \"King Horn\", Westernesse can be reached by sea, and is ruled by King Almair. The throne eventually passes to Arnoldin, who is a loyal companion of the narrative's hero, Horn.\n\nMany people today know 'Westernesse' as J. R. R. Tolkien's translation of Númenor, the name which he gave to one of the realms in his fictional world of Middle-earth. Tolkien, who studied Middle English texts professionally, indicated in one of his letters that he had derived his translation from the name as it occurred in \"King Horn\":\n\n"}
{"id": "31624114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31624114", "title": "Wild Salmon Center", "text": "Wild Salmon Center\n\nThe Wild Salmon Center (WSC) is an international conservation organization that works to protect wild salmon, steelhead, char, trout and the ecosystems on which these species depend. Headquartered in Portland, Oregon, United States, the WSC works with communities, businesses, governments, and other non-profits to protect and preserve healthy salmon ecosystems in the North Pacific. WSC programs range in location from Russia, Japan, Alaska, British Columbia, Washington State, Oregon, and California.\n\nThe WSC was founded as a non-profit by Pete Soverel and Tom Pero in 1992, and was run entirely by volunteers during its first five years. Originally the WSC received funding for research and conservation through organizing angling trips to the Kamchatka Peninsula in the Russian Far East. These expeditions were a joint venture between the WSC and Moscow State University. In 1998, WSC hired Guido Rahr as Executive Director, formerly with the conservation organization Oregon Trout, where he developed an approach to salmon conservation that focused on proactive protection of the strongest remaining populations (stronghold strategy). The organization expanded rapidly between 1999 and 2010. A new organization called The Conservation Angler was created in 2003 to take over the ecotourism programs, allowing the WSC to focus solely on science and conservation. One of the WSC programs, State of the Salmon, a science-based program created in 2003 in collaboration with Ecotrust, used data to track the health and trends of wild salmon populations. This data was then analyzed, and used to inform salmon management and conservation throughout the Pacific Rim. While State of the Salmon has concluded, sustainable fisheries work continues with a new organization, Ocean Outcomes, which was incubated and launched by Wild Salmon Center in 2015. Ocean Outcomes is a global fishery improvement organization targeting high risk fisheries - the fisheries that face the biggest conservation challenges and have the most to gain from improvements. O2 works hand-in-hand with commercial fisheries and local communities to improve the sustainability of global fisheries.\n\nAdopted in 1999, the WSC has been focused on a proactive \"salmon stronghold\" conservation strategy as a regional and international approach to salmon conservation. Salmon strongholds refer to river ecosystems that contain the most abundant and biologically diverse populations of wild salmon. Select areas on the Kamchatka Peninsula, Sakhalin Island, and the Russian Far East mainland, as well as key watersheds in the lower 48 US States, British Columbia, Bristol Bay and much of Alaska are considered salmon strongholds . As part of its efforts to protect habitat in Oregon, the Wild Salmon Center is a member of the North Coast State Forest Coalition. In identifying and then protecting salmon strongholds, the WSC aims to conserve healthy salmon stocks before they decline and ensure sustainable fish populations survive for the long term.\n\n"}
{"id": "34732268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34732268", "title": "Wilhelm Dittenberger", "text": "Wilhelm Dittenberger\n\nWilhelm (William) Dittenberger (August 31, 1840 in Heidelberg – December 29, 1906 in Halle (Saale)) was a German philologist in classical epigraphy.\n\nWilhelm Dittenberger was the son of the Protestant theologian Wilhelm Theophor Dittenberger. After attending school in Heidelberg and Weimar (then directed by Hermann Sauppe), he studied classical philology at Jena from 1859 and transferred to Göttingen in 1861, where he was reunited with Hermann Sauppe and received his doctorate at the beginning of 1863 for a work on the Athenian ephebes. From autumn of that year, he taught at the Göttingen Gymnasium while he completed his habilitation on Sallust at the University of Göttingen. Initially, Dittenberger remained a schoolteacher, becoming a teacher at the Joachimsthalsches Gymnasium in Berlin in 1865, at the Rudolstadt Gymnasium from 1867, and at the gymnasium in Quedlinburg from 1873 to 1874. In 1874 he was appointed Professor of Classical Philology at the University of Halle. He was a corresponding member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences and an ordinary member of the German Archaeological Institute.\n\nDittenberger's research focus was Greek epigraphy. His name is associated above all with the edited collections \"Sylloge Inscriptionum Graecarum\" (later re-edited by Friedrich Hiller von Gaertringen) and \"Orientis Graeci Inscriptiones Selectae\". For \"Inscriptiones Graecae\", Dittenberger was responsible for the Athenian inscriptions of the Roman period, of Megaris and Boeotia, and of Phocis, Lokris, Aetolia, Acarnania and the Ionian Islands. In addition he edited the inscriptions of Olympia (with Karl Purgold) and the 6th to 11th editions of the widely used commentary on Julius Caesar's \"De Bello Gallico\" begun by Friedrich Kraner.\n\nHis son, Heinrich Dittenberger (1875–1952), was a lawyer in Halle, Leipzig, and Berlin, as well as Chief Director of the German Bar Association from 1910 to 1933.\n\nAfter his death in 1907, his library was acquired by the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, as was the library of Johannes Vahlen, slightly later (1913). Together, the two libraries form the \"Dittenberger-Vahlen Collectionn of Classical Texts\", containing over 15,000 books and 17,000 reprints. In 2000, the university began the digitisation of this collection with the assistance of the National Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nDittenberger's tomb is located in the Nordfriedhof in Halle.\n\n\n\n - sources and full-text\n"}
{"id": "5726681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5726681", "title": "Wongudan", "text": "Wongudan\n\nWongudan Altar, located in Jung-gu, Seoul, South Korea, was built in 1897 to serve as a site for the performance of the rite of heaven. The site was also known by other names, such as Hwangudan (환구단, ), Jecheondan (제천단, ) and Wondan (원단, ). Wongudan was designated South Korea's Historic Site No. 157 on July 15, 1967.\n\nThe Rite of Heaven was performed during the pre-Three Kingdoms period. During the Goryeo Dynasty, King Seongjong was the first of the Goryeo kings to perform the rite, designed to ensure a bountiful harvest. King Seongjong standardized the \"Wonguje\" rituals. During the Goryeo Dynasty, the practice was abolished. King Sejo of the Joseon Dynasty briefly restarted the rite but stopped the practice in the tenth year of his reign in 1464.\n\nThe ritual was restarted again when King Gojong proclaimed the Korean Empire in 1897, but it was subsequently abolished by the Japanese colonial government in 1910.\n\nWongudan was built in 1897. The site of the complex sat between Namsan and Bukhansan, and was considered highly auspicious by geomancers. The altar complex was also designed to mimic natural elements such as the sun and moon. It was a three-story altar made of granite and was used for animal sacrifice. The top center of the altar held a conical yellow-roofed building. The altar was destroyed by the Japanese in 1913. Today, the Hwanggungu (Yellow Palace Shrine), a three-storied octagonal shrine built in 1899, remains along with three plaster drums with dragon decorations, and a gate. The Hwangungu, built on the north side of the altar complex, was designed for worshiping of Heaven and respecting Taejo, the founder of the Joseon Dynasty. The Gocheonje ritual was revived in 2002 with the intention of annual performance as a revival of Korean cultural heritage.\n\nThe imperial Japanese built the Railroad Chosun Hotel in the area where they had demolished Wongudan Altar. In 1968, that hotel was demolished and the Westin Chosun Hotel was built in its place. The Hwangungu still stands in the hotel complex today and although it is not a well known tourist site, it is popular with the guests of the hotel.\n\n\n"}
