{"id": "225818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225818", "title": "Access Copyright", "text": "Access Copyright\n\nAccess © or Access Copyright is the operating name of a Canada Business Corporations Act corporation whose official registration name is The Canadian Copyright Licensing Agency (formerly Cancopy). It is a not-for-profit copyright collective that collects revenues from licensed Canadian businesses, government, schools, libraries and other copyright users for the photocopying of print works and distributes those monies to the rightsholders of those works, such as publishers and authors from Canada and around the world. \n\nAccess Copyright covers works published in Australia, Argentina, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nWhen universities sign on to a license with Access Copyright (negotiated by the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC) or the Association of Canadian Community Colleges), their professors and students are given permission to do certain copying of copyrighted works. The university is generally charged a base rate per full-time student for this license, usually passed down to students in the form of mandatory fees.\n\"2011 AUCC model license\"\nA new model, negotiated by AUCC in 2011, would see universities pay a rate of $26 per full-time student. The old agreement, which expired in 2010, charged only $3.38 plus an additional 10 cents per page coursepacks, photocopied compilations of readings designed by instructors and sold to students. Moreover, additional stipulations would proscribe faculty and students from keeping copies of journal articles in personal libraries, or on personal computers or email accounts.\n\nThese changes have proved controversial, and numerous universities have opted out of the deal.\n\n\"Universities that have opted out:\"\n\n\"Universities that have signed on:\"\n\nAccess Copyright has also started charging universities for e-mailing links to copyrighted information, even in cases where there was no copyrighted material present. They are charging the full price for each link e-mailed. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52953646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52953646", "title": "African Centre for Technology Studies", "text": "African Centre for Technology Studies\n\nAfrican Centre for Technology Studies (ACTS) is an intergovernmental non-profit organization, founded in 1988 by Calestous Juma in Nairobi, Kenya, promoting policy-oriented research on science and technology in development that is sustainable in terms of the economy, society, and the environment. It was the first African non-profit organization to combine policy research, science and technology.\n\nFounded in 1988, ACTS was a pioneer in development research on innovative development policies related to applied science, technology, and innovation.\n\nACTS research influenced policies on industrial property legislation and policy in Kenya, environmental impact assessment standards in Eastern and Southern Africa, biofuels and bio-energy in Kenya, Eastern and West Africa. ACTS has also influenced policies across Africa on issues such as climate change adaptation and mitigation, agriculture, biotechnology, biodiplomacy, and biosafety.\n\nACTS is a member of the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development Data (GPSDD), which includes 150 data producers and users working towards sustainable development focusing on data that informs research ending extreme poverty and addressing climate change. The Canadian, Colombian, French, Ghanaian, Italian, Mexican, Moroccan, Nigerian, Philippine, Senagalese, United Kingdom and United States' governments are member-states of the network.\n\nIn 2013, ACTS was named as one of the top Environment Think Tanks globally. In 1991 the Council for the Development of Social Science Research in Africa (CODESRIA) honored ACTS for its contribution to expanding the knowledge base for development in Africa with the Justinian Rweyemamu Prize, named after Tanzania’s first major economics scholar, Justinian Rweyemamu.\n\nACTS policy researchers engage with local communities to encourage communities to reflect on and learn from their own coping mechanisms when faced with flood-prone areas. They then choose best practice adaptations and develop long-term proactive strategies for flood mitigation which might include crop diversification.\n\nACTS published the groundbreaking study by Harvard professor, Calestous Juma and J. B. Ojwang entitled \"Innovation and Sovereignty: The Patent Debate in African Development.\" Juma directs the Harvard Kennedy School's (HKS) Agricultural Innovation in Africa Project funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nIn his 1993 article, in which he examined legal processes regarding access and tenurial issues in regards to group and individual pastoral natural resource management in Turkana in Kenya, focusing on tree rights, Edmund G.C. Barrow made a case for indigenous property rights.\n\nOchieng, C. (2007). Development through positive deviance and its implications for economic policy making and public administration in Africa: the case of Kenya agricultural development, 1930-2004. World Development 35: (3) 454–479.\n\nOchieng, C. (2007) Re-vitalizing African agriculture through innovative business and organizational arrangements: promising developments in the traditional crops sector. Journal of Modern African Studies 45 :( 1) 143-169.\n\nOchieng, C. (2007) The EU-ACP economic partnership agreements and the development question: opportunities and constraints posed by Article XXIV and special and differential treatment provisions of the WTO. Journal of International Economic Law 10: (2) 363-395.\n\nOchieng, C & Houdet, J. (2015) eds. Responsible Exploitation of Natural Resources for African Development. ACTS Special Issue Paper Series 001. ACTS Press, Nairobi\n\n"}
{"id": "625608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=625608", "title": "AllOfMP3", "text": "AllOfMP3\n\nAllOfMP3, MP3Sparks and MemphisMembers are brands of online music store that were operated by Mediaservices, Inc., a company founded in 2000 in Moscow, Russia. The stores formerly sold music encoded in standard, non-protected audio formats at a significantly lower cost than other online music stores. In 2008, the original AllOfMp3 site was replaced by a blog.\n\nThe company has been plagued by legal issues for some time due to accusations, mainly from the record industry, that they are operating illegally and engaging in music piracy.\n\nRun by the Moscow company MediaServices, AllOfMP3 had an estimated revenue of US$30 million in 2006. According to the IFPI and various other label representatives the company has never transferred money to any (western) label. AllofMP3 claims to have offered settlements to IFPI, which AllOfMP3 claims IFPI refused to accept.\n\nAllOfMP3's legality is controversial. It is licensed in Russia by the Russian Organization for Multimedia and Digital Systems, a licence similar to agreements held by Russian radio stations. AllOfMP3 states that this agreement allows it to distribute music legally from all artists and all labels. This is disputed by most major record labels, which generally do not recognize ROMS or believe that it has the authority to distribute their works. AllOfMP3.com makes no claims as to its legality outside of Russia. However it is accessible to visitors in all countries.\n\nIn 2005, Moscow authorities began investigating the site as a result of a formal complaint from the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), who accused the site of \"large-scale copyright infringement\".\n\nOn June 1, 2006, \"The New York Times\" reported that US trade negotiators have warned Russia that the continued existence of AllOfMP3 could jeopardize Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization. This was reiterated by the United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab in remarks to the US Chamber of Commerce on September 28, 2006. She later told reporters that \"I have a hard time imagining Russia becoming a member of the WTO and having a Web site like that up and running that is so clearly a violation of everyone's intellectual property rights.\"\n\nPressure from the IFPI resulted in AllOfMP3 being blocked by the Danish ISP, Tele2 in October 2006.\n\nOn December 18, 2006, the RIAA, on behalf of EMI, Sony BMG, Universal Music Group, and Warner Music Group filed a US$1.65 trillion lawsuit against the site. That equates to US$150,000 for each of 11 million songs downloaded between June to October 2006, and exceeds Russia's entire GDP. $150,000 is the statutory limit for copyright infringement awards in the United States. Allofmp3 responded to the lawsuit saying \"AllofMP3 understands that several U.S. record label companies filed a lawsuit against Media Services in New York. This suit is unjustified as AllofMP3 does not operate in New York. Certainly the labels are free to file any suit they wish, despite knowing full well that AllofMP3 operates legally in Russia. In the mean time, AllofMP3 plans to continue to operate legally and comply with all Russian laws.\".\n\nIn May 2007, UK police arrested a 25-year-old man on fraud charges for selling allofmp3.com vouchers on sites such as eBay and allofmp3vouchers.co.uk. The man was reported to be funneling money from the sale of these vouchers back to the owners of the site in Russia. A statement in relation to this alleged transfer of funds to Russia was made by the British Phonographic Industry chairman.\n\nIn 2007 Allofmp3 was banned from service by its payment processor ChronoPay.\n\nIn an interview with p2pnet, a MediaServices representative said \"It is disappointing that United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab completely and deliberately mischaracterized AllofMP3.com. Furthermore, it is irresponsible to use AllofMP3.com as a negotiating instrument in an attempt to extract concessions from Russia in return for US support for accession to the World Trade Organization\".\n\nIn July 2007, a Moscow court ruled that Visa's decision to cut off payments to allTunes was illegal.\n\nIn August 2007, Denis Kvasov, head of the company which owned AllofMP3.com, was acquitted of all charges stemming from copyright infringement prosecution. The prosecution was seen as a test case of Russia's commitment to fighting piracy, and was brought after EMI, NBC Universal and Time Warner lobbied for such prosecution.\n\nIn January 2008 The Register reported that MP3Sparks.com and its associated web sites were being hosted (since December 2007)\nby AbdAllah Internet, a Turkish web hosting service which allegedly provides safe harbour for spam and malware operations as well as having strong links to the Russian Business Network. For this reason access to the AbdAllah network is blocked by some ISPs, including all UK members of LINX, therefore blocking access to MP3Sparks as well.\n\nOn May 20, 2008, the RIAA dropped all copyright infringement charges against AllOfMP3.com.\n\nIn June 2007, AllOfMP3 announced on their site that they were \"closed for maintenance\", while Times Online reported that an unnamed person claiming to be an ex-employee told them it was closed down following pressure from the Russian government. MP3Sparks, however, remained available, as did the AllTunes download service.\n\nFollowing the acquittal of Denis Kvasov by a Moscow court in August 2007, a brief message was posted at the site's blog, stating \"The service will be resumed in the foreseeable future\".\n\nThe sites offer Russian and English user interfaces. All functions, except for the buying of songs and full length song previews, are available to unregistered users (and full length preview of songs is restricted to individuals who have spent a total of $50 or more on the website). Registration is free. The store maintains an account balance for each user; while a user's account has a positive balance, he or she can continue downloading music. To do so, the user selects the files for download from the store's catalog.\n\nUnlike some US-based music stores such as Apple's iTunes Store, MediaServices' sites charge for the volume of data downloaded, not for individual songs.\n\nThis price is often reduced by a complicated system of discounts based on cumulative usage, promotions, and type of payment. These discounts can reduce the effective price of downloads by up to one third of the original cost.\n\nThe sites operate using a pre-paid balance method. Users fund their account using a credit or debit card, in increments of US$10 or more.\n\nHowever, action taken in late 2006 by Visa and MasterCard made it impossible for users to fund their accounts at the main AllOfMP3 site.\n\nUsers outside UK and US can also pay using a variety of credit cards at ChronoPay processor. ChronoPay had announced on March 20, 2007 that they would no longer be processing payments from online Russian music stores that only hold a ROMS license (e.g. AllOfMP3), but this does not apply to MP3Sparks which has an license.\n\nBetween April and June 2007, it had become difficult for users to fund their AllOfMP3 accounts themselves, and a number of users and sites began selling AllOfMP3 gift vouchers on the Internet. However, in May 2007 a man who had been selling vouchers was arrested in London, and this led many other voucher sellers to shut down their operations.\n\nAllOfMP3 (and now MP3Sparks) allows users to choose from a variety of audio codecs for audio files. Lossy formats are offered in constant bitrates up to 320kbit/s or variable bitrates up to maximum quality in the following formats:\nSelect albums are also being made available in Lossless audio codecs in the following formats:\nMost music is encoded straight from source, which is dubbed \"Online Encoding Exclusive\", so gapless albums could provide gapless playback, unlike most other music services. There is no extra charge for using the Online Encoding Exclusive service. The user sets the codec parameters, including the desired bitrate, allowing for superior quality over other music download services such as iTunes and Napster.\n\nDownloaded files do not contain digital rights management information, allowing unrestricted use between multiple computers and digital audio players. This differentiates AllOfMP3 from many other music download services, which limit the use of the music the user may purchase and the platforms on which it may be played.\n\nThe websites also offer free, full album previews, streamed at a bitrate of 24 kilobits per second (roughly equivalent to analog telephone audio quality). Registered users who have spent less than $50 have access to 90 second samples, and unregistered users have access to 30 second samples.\n\nIn late 2006, AllOfMP3 experimented with a feature called \"Music for Masses\" which allowed users to download DRM-protected music for free. The files were encoded in a proprietary MP3 format (.mp3x) that could only be played in the Music for Masses player, and could not be transferred to a portable media device. However, the DRM protection was cracked within a week. Although AllOfMP3 released a compulsory update to the player software which rendered the original crack unusable, they eventually removed the service in December 2006.\n\nThe standard method of downloading purchased music is directly from the services' \"My Downloads\" pages. Files can be downloaded from the links on this page using a web browser, or alternatively a download manager or a command-line utility such as wget (the site offers a \"list of links\" which can be written to a file and used as input for such tools). Download speeds vary but typically hover around 40-120 kilobytes per second on broadband connections.\n\nA more streamlined experience for AllOfMP3 account holders is offered by the Microsoft Windows application allTunes and the older Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X application AllofMP3 Explorer. These applications allow the user to browse and search the entire AllOfMP3 catalogue (which is downloaded and stored locally for faster searching) and select files for download. The application then downloads the files in the background.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338", "title": "Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990", "text": "Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990\n\nThe Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 () is a civil rights law that prohibits discrimination based on disability. It affords similar protections against discrimination to Americans with disabilities as the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which made discrimination based on race, religion, sex, national origin, and other characteristics illegal. In addition, unlike the Civil Rights Act, the ADA also requires covered employers to provide reasonable accommodations to employees with disabilities, and imposes accessibility requirements on public accommodations.\n\nIn 1986, the National Council on Disability had recommended enactment of an Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and drafted the first version of the bill which was introduced in the House and Senate in 1988. The final version of the bill was signed into law on July 26, 1990, by President George H. W. Bush. It was later amended in 2008 and signed by President George W. Bush with changes effective as of January 1, 2009.\n\nADA disabilities include both mental and physical medical conditions. A condition does not need to be severe or permanent to be a disability. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission regulations provide a list of conditions that should easily be concluded to be disabilities: deafness, blindness, an intellectual disability (formerly termed mental retardation), partially or completely missing limbs or mobility impairments requiring the use of a wheelchair, autism, cancer, cerebral palsy, diabetes, epilepsy, Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, and schizophrenia. Other mental or physical health conditions also may be disabilities, depending on what the individual's symptoms would be in the absence of \"mitigating measures\" (medication, therapy, assistive devices, or other means of restoring function), during an \"active episode\" of the condition (if the condition is episodic).\n\nCertain specific conditions that are widely considered anti-social, or tend to result in illegal activity, such as kleptomania, pedophilia, exhibitionism, voyeurism, etc. are excluded under the definition of \"disability\" in order to prevent abuse of the statute's purpose. Additionally, other specific conditions, such as gender identity disorders, are also excluded under the definition of \"disability\".\n\nSee also US labor law and .\nThe ADA states that a \"covered entity\" shall not discriminate against \"a qualified individual with a disability\". This applies to job application procedures, hiring, advancement and discharge of employees, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment. \"Covered entities\" include employers with 15 or more employees, as well as employment agencies, labor organizations, and joint labor-management committees. There are strict limitations on when a covered entity can ask job applicants or employees disability-related questions or require them to undergo medical examination, and all medical information must be kept confidential.\n\nProhibited discrimination may include, among other things, firing or refusing to hire someone based on a real or perceived disability, segregation, and harassment based on a disability. Covered entities are also required to provide reasonable accommodations to job applicants and employees with disabilities. A reasonable accommodation is a change in the way things are typically done that the person needs because of a disability, and can include, among other things, special equipment that allows the person to perform the job, scheduling changes, and changes to the way work assignments are chosen or communicated. An employer is not required to provide an accommodation that would involve undue hardship (significant difficulty or expense), and the individual who receives the accommodation must still perform the essential functions of the job and meet the normal performance requirements. An employee or applicant who currently engages in the illegal use of drugs is not considered qualified when a covered entity takes adverse action based on such use.\n\nThere are many ways to discriminate against people based on disabilities, including psychological ones. Anyone known to have a history of mental disorders can be considered disabled. Employers with more than 15 employees must take care to treat all employees fairly and with any accommodations needed. Even when an employee is doing a job exceptionally well, she or he is not necessarily no longer disabled; employers must continue to follow all policies for the disabled.\n\nPart of Title I was found unconstitutional by the United States Supreme Court as it pertains to states in the case of \"Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama v. Garrett\" as violating the sovereign immunity rights of the several states as specified by the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Court determined that state employees cannot sue their employer for violating ADA rules. State employees can, however, file complaints at the Department of Justice or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, who can sue on their behalf.\n\nTitle II prohibits disability discrimination by all public entities at the local level, \"e.g.\", school district, municipal, city, or county, and at state level. Public entities must comply with Title II regulations by the U.S. Department of Justice. These regulations cover access to all programs and services offered by the entity. Access includes physical access described in the ADA Standards for Accessible Design and programmatic access that might be obstructed by discriminatory policies or procedures of the entity.\n\nTitle II applies to public transportation provided by public entities through regulations by the U.S. Department of Transportation. It includes the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (Amtrak), along with all other commuter authorities. This section requires the provision of paratransit services by public entities that provide fixed route services. ADA also sets minimum requirements for space layout in order to facilitate wheelchair securement on public transport.\n\nTitle II also applies to all state and local public housing, housing assistance, and housing referrals. The Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity is charged with enforcing this provision.\n\nUnder Title III, no individual may be discriminated against on the basis of disability with regards to the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, or accommodations of any place of public accommodation by any person who owns, leases, or operates a place of public accommodation. Public accommodations include most places of lodging (such as inns and hotels), recreation, transportation, education, and dining, along with stores, care providers, and places of public displays.\n\nUnder Title III of the ADA, all new construction (construction, modification or alterations) after the effective date of the ADA (approximately July 1992) must be fully compliant with the Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) found in the Code of Federal Regulations at 28 C.F.R., Part 36, Appendix \"A\".\n\nTitle III also has application to existing facilities. One of the definitions of \"discrimination\" under Title III of the ADA is a \"failure to remove\" architectural barriers in existing facilities. See . This means that even facilities that have not been modified or altered in any way after the ADA was passed still have obligations. The standard is whether \"removing barriers\" (typically defined as bringing a condition into compliance with the ADAAG) is \"readily achievable\", defined as \"...easily accomplished without much difficulty or expense\".\n\nThe statutory definition of \"readily achievable\" calls for a balancing test between the cost of the proposed \"fix\" and the wherewithal of the business and/or owners of the business. Thus, what might be \"readily achievable\" for a sophisticated and financially capable corporation might not be readily achievable for a small or local business.\n\nThere are exceptions to this title; many private clubs and religious organizations may not be bound by Title III. With regard to historic properties (those properties that are listed or that are eligible for listing in the National Register of Historic Places, or properties designated as historic under state or local law), those facilities must still comply with the provisions of Title III of the ADA to the \"maximum extent feasible\" but if following the usual standards would \"threaten to destroy the historic significance of a feature of the building\" then alternative standards may be used.\n\nUnder 2010 revisions of Department of Justice regulations, newly constructed or altered swimming pools, wading pools, and spas must have an accessible means of entrance and exit to pools for disabled people. However, the requirement is conditioned on whether providing access through a fixed lift is \"readily achievable\". Other requirements exist, based on pool size, include providing a certain number of accessible means of entry and exit, which are outlined in Section 242 of the standards. However, businesses are free to consider the differences in application of the rules depending on whether the pool is new or altered, or whether the swimming pool was in existence before the effective date of the new rule. Full compliance may not be required for existing facilities; Section 242 and 1009 of the 2010 Standards outline such exceptions.\n\nThe ADA provides explicit coverage for service animals. Guidelines have been developed not only to protect persons with disabilities, but also to indemnify businesses from damages related to granting access to service animals on their premises. Businesses are allowed to ask if the animal is a service animal and ask what tasks it is trained to perform, but they are not allowed to ask the service animal to perform the task nor ask for a special ID of the animal. They cannot ask what the person's disabilities are. A person with a disability cannot be removed from the premises unless either of two things happen: the animal is out of control and its owner can not get it under control (e.g. a dog barking uncontrollably in a restaurant), or the animal is a direct threat to people's health and safety. Allergies and fear of animals would not be considered a threat to people's health and safety, so it would not be a valid reason to deny access to people with service animals. Businesses that prepare or serve food must allow service animals and their owners on the premises even if state or local health laws otherwise prohibit animals on the premises. In this case, businesses that prepare or serve food are not required to provide care or food for service animals, nor do they have to provide a designated area for the service animal to use the bathroom. Lastly, people that require service dogs cannot be charged an extra fee for their service dog or be treated unfairly, for example, being isolated from people at a restaurant. People with disabilities cannot be treated as \"less than\" other customers. However, if a business normally charges for damages caused by the person to property, the customer with a disability will be charged for his/her service animal's damages to the property.\n\nTitle IV of the ADA amended the landmark Communications Act of 1934 primarily by adding section . This section requires that all telecommunications companies in the U.S. take steps to ensure functionally equivalent services for consumers with disabilities, notably those who are deaf or hard of hearing and those with speech impairments. When Title IV took effect in the early 1990s, it led to the installation of public teletypewriter (TTY) machines and other TDD (telecommunications devices for the deaf). Title IV also led to the creation, in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, of what were then called dual-party relay services and now are known as Telecommunications Relay Services (TRS), such as STS relay. Today, many TRS-mediated calls are made over the Internet by consumers who use broadband connections. Some are Video Relay Service (VRS) calls, while others are text calls. In either variation, communication assistants translate between the signed or typed words of a consumer and the spoken words of others. In 2006, according to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), VRS calls averaged two million minutes a month.\n\nTitle V includes technical provisions. It discusses, for example, the fact that nothing in the ADA amends, overrides or cancels anything in Section 504. Additionally, Title V includes an anti-retaliation or coercion provision. The \"Technical Assistance Manual\" for the ADA explains this provision: \n\"III-3.6000 Retaliation or coercion. Individuals who exercise their rights under the ADA, or assist others in exercising their rights, are protected from retaliation. The prohibition against retaliation or coercion applies broadly to any individual or entity that seeks to prevent an individual from exercising his or her rights or to retaliate against him or her for having exercised those rights ... Any form of retaliation or coercion, including threats, intimidation, or interference, is prohibited if it is intended to interfere.\"\n\nThe ADA has roots in Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.\n\nThe idea of federal legislation enhancing and extending civil rights legislation to millions of Americans with disabilities gained bipartisan support in late 1988 and early 1989. In early 1989 both Congress and the newly-inaugurated Bush White House worked separately, then jointly, to write legislation capable of expanding civil rights without imposing undue harm or costs on those already in compliance with existing rules and laws.\n\nOver the years, key activists and advocates played an important role in lobbying Members of the U.S. Congress to develop and pass the ADA, including Justin Whitlock Dart, Jr., Patrisha Wright and others.\n\nMs. Wright is known as \"the General\" for her work in coordinating the campaign to enact the ADA. She is widely considered the main force behind the campaign lobbying for the ADA.\n\nAbout the importance of making employment opportunities inclusive, Shirley Davis, director of global diversity and inclusion at the Society for Human Resource Management, said: \"People with disabilities represent a critical talent pool that is underserved and underutilized\".\n\nThe debate over the Americans with Disabilities Act led some religious groups to take opposite positions. The Association of Christian Schools International, opposed the ADA in its original form. primarily because the ADA labeled religious institutions \"public accommodations\", and thus would have required churches to make costly structural changes to ensure access for all. The cost argument advanced by ACSI and others prevailed in keeping religious institutions from being labeled as \"public accommodations\".\n\nChurch groups such as the National Association of Evangelicals testified against the ADA's Title I employment provisions on grounds of religious liberty. The NAE believed the regulation of the internal employment of churches was \"... an improper intrusion [of] the federal government.\"\n\nMany members of the business community opposed the Americans with Disabilities Act. Testifying before Congress, Greyhound Bus Lines stated that the act had the potential to \"deprive millions of people of affordable intercity public transportation and thousands of rural communities of their only link to the outside world.\" The US Chamber of Commerce argued that the costs of the ADA would be \"enormous\" and have \"a disastrous impact on many small businesses struggling to survive.\" The National Federation of Independent Businesses, an organization that lobbies for small businesses, called the ADA \"a disaster for small business.\" Pro-business conservative commentators joined in opposition, writing that the Americans with Disabilities Act was \"an expensive headache to millions\" that would not necessarily improve the lives of people with disabilities.\n\nShortly before the act was passed, disability rights activists with physical disabilities coalesced in front of the Capitol Building, shed their crutches, wheelchairs, powerchairs and other assistive devices, and immediately proceeded to crawl and pull their bodies up all 100 of the Capitol's front steps, without warning. As the activists did so, many of them chanted \"ADA now\", and \"Vote, Now\". Some activists who remained at the bottom of the steps held signs and yelled words of encouragement at the \"Capitol Crawlers\". Jennifer Keelan, a second grader with cerebral palsy, was videotaped as she pulled herself up the steps, using mostly her hands and arms, saying \"I'll take all night if I have to.\" This direct action is reported to have \"inconvenienced\" several senators and to have pushed them to approve the act. While there are those who do not attribute much overall importance to this action, the \"Capitol Crawl\" of 1990 is seen by some present-day disability activists in the United States as a central act for encouraging the ADA into law.\n\nSenator Tom Harkin (D-IA) authored what became the final bill and was its chief sponsor in the Senate. Harkin delivered part of his introduction speech in sign language, saying it was so his deaf brother could understand.\n\nOn signing the measure, George H. W. Bush said: \n\nThe ADA defines a covered disability as a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities, a history of having such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment. The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) was charged with interpreting the 1990 law with regard to discrimination in employment. The EEOC developed regulations limiting an individual's impairment to one that \"severely or significantly restricts\" a major life activity. The ADAAA directed the EEOC to amend its regulations and replace \"severely or significantly\" with \"substantially limits\", a more lenient standard.\n\nOn September 25, 2008, President George W. Bush signed the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (ADAAA) into law. The amendment broadened the definition of \"disability\", thereby extending the ADA's protections to a greater number of people. The ADAAA also added to the ADA examples of \"major life activities\" including, but not limited to, \"caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, communicating, and working\" as well as the operation of several specified \"major bodily functions\". The act overturned a 1999 US Supreme Court case that held that an employee was not disabled if the impairment could be corrected by mitigating measures; it specifically provides that such impairment must be determined without considering such ameliorative measures. It also overturned the court restriction that an impairment which substantially limits one major life activity must also limit others to be considered a disability.\nIn 2008, the United States House Committee on Education and Labor stated that the amendment \"makes it absolutely clear that the ADA is intended to provide broad coverage to protect anyone who faces discrimination on the basis of disability.\" Thus the ADAAA led to broader coverage of impaired employees.\n\n the ADA had improved access to public services, the built environment (e.g., crosswalks with curb cuts and accessible pedestrian signals), understanding of the abilities of people with disabilities, established a right to equal access to public services and has demonstrated the contributions which people with disabilities can make to the economy. Disparities have remained in employment, earned income, Internet access, transportation, housing, and educational attainment and the disabled remain at a disadvantage with respect to health and health care.\n\nThe ADA has been criticized on the grounds that it decreases the employment rate for people with disabilities and raises the cost of doing business for employers, in large part due to the additional legal risks, which employers avoid by quietly avoiding hiring people with disabilities. Some researchers believe that the law has been ineffectual. Between 1991 (after the enactment of the ADA) and 1995, the employment rate of men with disabilities dropped by 7.8% regardless of age, educational level, or type of disability, with the most affected being young, less-educated and mentally disabled men. Despite the many criticisms, a causal link between the ADA and declining disabled employment over much of the 1990s has not been definitively identified.\n\nIn 2001, for men of all working ages and women under 40, Current Population Survey data showed a sharp drop in the employment of disabled workers, leading at least two economists to attribute the cause to the Act. By contrast, a study in 2003 found that while the Act may have led to short term reactions by employers, in the long term, there were either positive or neutral consequences for wages and employment. In 2005 the rate of employment among disabled people increased to 45% of the population of disabled people.\n\nSince enforcement of the act began in July 1992, it has quickly become a major component of employment law. The ADA allows private plaintiffs to receive only injunctive relief (a court order requiring the public accommodation to remedy violations of the accessibility regulations) and attorneys' fees, and does not provide monetary rewards to private plaintiffs who sue non-compliant businesses. Unless a state law, such as the California Unruh Civil Rights Act, provides for monetary damages to private plaintiffs, persons with disabilities do not obtain direct financial benefits from suing businesses that violate the ADA.\n\nThe attorneys' fees provision of Title III does provide incentive for lawyers to specialize and engage in serial ADA litigation, but a disabled plaintiff does not obtain financial reward from attorneys' fees unless they act as their own attorney, or as mentioned above, a disabled plaintiff resides in a state that provides for minimum compensation and court fees in lawsuits. Moreover, there may be a benefit to these \"private attorneys general\" who identify and compel the correction of illegal conditions: they may increase the number of public accommodations accessible to persons with disabilities. \"Civil rights law depends heavily on private enforcement. Moreover, the inclusion of penalties and damages is the driving force that facilitates voluntary compliance with the ADA.\" Courts have noted: \nAs a result, most ADA suits are brought by a small number of private plaintiffs who view themselves as champions of the disabled. For the ADA to yield its promise of equal access for the disabled, it may indeed be necessary and desirable for committed individuals to bring serial litigation advancing the time when public accommodations will be compliant with the ADA.\"\n\nHowever, in states that have enacted laws that allow private individuals to win monetary awards from non-compliant businesses (as of 2008, these include California, Florida, Hawaii, and Illinois), \"professional plaintiffs\" are typically found. At least one of these plaintiffs in California has been barred by courts from filing lawsuits unless he receives prior court permission. Through the end of fiscal year 1998, 86% of the 106,988 ADA charges filed with and resolved by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, were either dropped or investigated and dismissed by EEOC but not without imposing opportunity costs and legal fees on employers.\n\nThere have been some notable cases regarding the ADA. For example, two major hotel room marketers (Expedia.com and Hotels.com) with their business presence on the Internet were sued because its customers with disabilities could not reserve hotel rooms, through their websites without substantial extra efforts that persons without disabilities were not required to perform. These represent a major potential expansion of the ADA in that this, and other similar suits (known as \"bricks vs. clicks\"), seeks to expand the ADA's authority to cyberspace, where entities may not have actual physical facilities that are required to comply.\n\n\"National Federation of the Blind v. Target Corporation\" was a case where a major retailer, Target Corp., was sued because their web designers failed to design its website to enable persons with low or no vision to use it.\n\n\"Board of Trustees of the University of Alabama v. Garrett\" was a United States Supreme Court case about Congress's enforcement powers under the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution. It decided that Title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act was unconstitutional insofar as it allowed private citizens to sue states for money damages.\n\n\"Barden v. The City of Sacramento\", filed in March 1999, claimed that the City of Sacramento failed to comply with the ADA when, while making public street improvements, it did not bring its sidewalks into compliance with the ADA. Certain issues were resolved in Federal Court. One issue, whether sidewalks were covered by the ADA, was appealed to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, which ruled that sidewalks were a \"program\" under ADA and must be made accessible to persons with disabilities. The ruling was later appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused to hear the case, letting stand the ruling of the 9th Circuit Court.\n\n\"Bates v. UPS\" (begun in 1999) was the first equal opportunity employment class action brought on behalf of Deaf and Hard of Hearing (d/Deaf/HoH) workers throughout the country concerning workplace discrimination. It established legal precedence for d/Deaf/HoH Employees and Customers to be fully covered under the ADA. Key findings included\nThe outcome was that UPS agreed to pay a $5.8 million award and agreed to a comprehensive accommodations program that was implemented in their facilities throughout the country.\n\n\"Spector v. Norwegian Cruise Line Ltd.\" was a case that was decided by the United States Supreme Court in 2005. The defendant argued that as a vessel flying the flag of a foreign nation it was exempt from the requirements of the ADA. This argument was accepted by a federal court in Florida and, subsequently, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. However, the U.S. Supreme Court reversed the ruling of the lower courts on the basis that Norwegian Cruise Lines was a business headquartered in the United States whose clients were predominantly Americans and, more importantly, operated out of port facilities throughout the United States.\n\n\"Olmstead v. L.C.\" was a case before the United States Supreme Court in 1999. The two plaintiffs L.C. and E.W. were institutionalized in Georgia for diagnosed mental retardation and schizophrenia. Clinical assessments by the state determined that the plaintiffs could be appropriately treated in a community setting rather than the state institution. The plaintiffs sued the state of Georgia and the institution for being inappropriately treated and housed in the institutional setting rather than being treated in one of the state's community based treatment facilities.\n\nThe Supreme Court decided under Title II of the ADA that mental illness is a form of disability and therefore covered under the ADA, and that unjustified institutional isolation of a person with a disability is a form of discrimination because it \"...perpetuates unwarranted assumptions that persons so isolated are incapable or unworthy of participating in community life.\" The court added, \"Confinement in an institution severely diminishes the everyday life activities of individuals, including family relations, social contacts, work options, economic independence, educational advancement, and cultural enrichment.\"\n\nTherefore, under Title II no person with a disability can be unjustly excluded from participation in or be denied the benefits of services, programs or activities of any public entity.\n\nThis was a case filed before The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Southern Division on behalf of the Michigan Paralyzed Veterans of America against University of Michigan – Michigan Stadium claiming that Michigan Stadium violated the Americans with Disabilities Act in its $226-million renovation by failing to add enough seats for disabled fans or accommodate the needs for disabled restrooms, concessions and parking. Additionally, the distribution of the accessible seating was at issue, with nearly all the seats being provided in the end-zone areas. The U.S. Department of Justice assisted in the suit filed by attorney Richard Bernstein of The Law Offices of Sam Bernstein in Farmington Hills, Michigan, which was settled in March 2008. The settlement required the stadium to add 329 wheelchair seats throughout the stadium by 2010, and an additional 135 accessible seats in clubhouses to go along with the existing 88 wheelchair seats. This case was significant because it set a precedent for the uniform distribution of accessible seating and gave the DOJ the opportunity to clarify previously unclear rules. The agreement now is a blueprint for all stadiums and other public facilities regarding accessibility.\n\nOne of the first major ADA lawsuits, \"Paralyzed Veterans of America (or \"PVA\") v. Ellerbe Becket Architects and Engineers\" (1996) was focused on the wheelchair accessibility of a stadium project that was still in the design phase, MCI Center (now known as Capital One Arena) in Washington, D.C. Previous to this case, which was filed only five years after the ADA was passed, the DOJ was unable or unwilling to provide clarification on the distribution requirements for accessible wheelchair locations in large assembly spaces. While Section 4.33.3 of ADAAG makes reference to lines of sight, no specific reference is made to seeing over standing patrons. The MCI Center, designed by Ellerbe Becket Architects & Engineers, was designed with too few wheelchair and companion seats, and the ones that were included did not provide sight lines that would enable the wheelchair user to view the playing area while the spectators in front of them were standing. This case and another related case established precedent on seat distribution and sight lines issues for ADA enforcement that continues to present day.\n\n\"Toyota Motor Manufacturing, Kentucky, Inc. v. Williams\", was a case in which the Supreme Court interpreted the meaning of the phrase \"substantially impairs\" as used in the Americans with Disabilities Act. It reversed a Sixth Court of Appeals decision to grant a partial summary judgment in favor of the respondent, Ella Williams, that qualified her inability to perform manual job-related tasks as a disability. The Court held that the \"major life activity\" definition in evaluating the performance of manual tasks focuses the inquiry on whether Williams was unable to perform a range of tasks central to most people in carrying out the activities of daily living. The issue is not whether Williams was unable to perform her specific job tasks. Therefore, the determination of whether an impairment rises to the level of a disability is not limited to activities in the workplace solely, but rather to manual tasks in life in general. When the Supreme Court applied this standard, it found that the Court of Appeals had incorrectly determined the presence of a disability because it relied solely on her inability to perform specific manual work tasks, which was insufficient in proving the presence of a disability. The Court of Appeals should have taken into account the evidence presented that Williams retained the ability to do personal tasks and household chores, such activities being the nature of tasks most people do in their daily lives, and placed too much emphasis on her job disability. Since the evidence showed that Williams was performing normal daily tasks, it ruled that the Court of Appeals erred when it found that Williams was disabled. This ruling is now, however, no longer good law—it was invalidated by the ADAAA. In fact, Congress explicitly cited Toyota v. Williams in the text of the ADAAA itself as one of its driving influences for passing the ADAAA.\n\nDecided by the US Supreme Court in 2002, this case held that even requests for accommodation that might seem reasonable on their face, e.g., a transfer to a different position, can be rendered unreasonable because it would require a violation of the company's seniority system. While the court held that, in general, a violation of a seniority system renders an otherwise reasonable accommodation unreasonable, a plaintiff can present evidence that, despite the seniority system, the accommodation is reasonable in the specific case at hand, e.g., the plaintiff could offer evidence that the seniority system is so often disregarded that another exception wouldn't make a difference.\n\nImportantly, the court held that the defendant need not provide proof that this particular application of the seniority system should prevail, and that, once the defendant showed that the accommodation violated the seniority system, it fell to Barnett to show it was nevertheless reasonable.\n\nIn this case, Barnett was a US Airways employee who injured his back, rendering him physically unable to perform his cargo-handling job. Invoking seniority, he transferred to a less-demanding mailroom job, but this position later became open to seniority-based bidding and was bid on by more senior employees. Barnett requested the accommodation of being allowed to stay on in the less-demanding mailroom job. US Airways denied his request, and he lost his job.\n\nThe Supreme Court decision invalidated both the approach of the district court, which found that the mere presence and importance of the seniority system was enough to warrant a summary judgment in favor of US Airways, as well as the circuit court's approach that interpreted 'reasonable accommodation' as 'effective accommodation.'\n\n\"Access Now v. Southwest Airlines\" was a case where the District Court decided that the website of Southwest Airlines was not in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act, because the ADA is concerned with things with a physical existence and thus cannot be applied to cyberspace. Judge Patricia A. Seitz found that the \"virtual ticket counter\" of the website was a virtual construct, and hence not a \"public place of accommodation.\" As such, \"To expand the ADA to cover 'virtual' spaces would be to create new rights without well-defined standards.\"\n\n\"Ouellette v. Viacom International Inc.\" followed in Access Now's footsteps by holding that a mere online presence does not subject a website to the ADA guidelines. Thus Myspace and YouTube were not liable for a dyslexic man's inability to navigate the site regardless of how impressive the \"online theater\" is.\n\n\"Authors Guild v. HathiTrust\" was a case in which the District Court decided that the HathiTrust digital library was a transformative, fair use of copyrighted works, making a large number of written text available to those with print disability.\n\n\"Zamora-Quezada v. HealthTexas Medical Group\" (begun in 1998) was the first time this act was used against HMOs when a novel lawsuit was filed by Texas attorney Robert Provan against five HMOs for their practice of revoking the contracts of doctors treating disabled patients.\n\n\"Campbell v. General Dynamics Government Systems Corp.\" (2005) concerned the enforceability of a mandatory arbitration agreement, contained in a dispute resolution policy linked to an e-mailed company-wide announcement, insofar as it applies to employment discrimination claims brought under the Americans with Disabilities Act.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "867979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=867979", "title": "Anti-authoritarianism", "text": "Anti-authoritarianism\n\nAnti-authoritarianism is opposition to authoritarianism, which is defined as \"a form of social organisation characterised by submission to authority\", \"favoring complete obedience or subjection to authority as opposed to individual freedom\" and to authoritarian government. Anti-authoritarians usually believe in full equality before the law and strong civil liberties. Sometimes the term is used interchangeably with anarchism, an ideology which entails opposing authority or hierarchical organization in the conduct of human relations, including the state system.\n\nFreethought is a philosophical viewpoint that holds opinions should be formed on the basis of logic, reason and empiricism, rather than authority, tradition, or other dogmas. The cognitive application of freethought is known as \"freethinking\" and practitioners of freethought are known as \"freethinkers\".\n\nArgument from authority (Latin: \"argumentum ab auctoritate\") is a common form of argument which leads to a logical fallacy when misused. In informal reasoning, the appeal to authority is a form of argument attempting to establish a statistical syllogism. The appeal to authority relies on an argument of the form:\n\nFallacious examples of using the appeal include any appeal to authority used in the context of logical reasoning and appealing to the position of an authority or authorities to dismiss evidence as while authorities can be correct in judgments related to their area of expertise more often than laypersons, they can still come to the wrong judgments through error, bias, dishonesty, or falling prey to groupthink. Thus, the appeal to authority is not a generally reliable argument for establishing facts. Influential anarchist Mikhail Bakunin thought the following: \"Does it follow that I reject all authority? Far from me such a thought. In the matter of boots, I refer to the authority of the bootmaker; concerning houses, canals, or railroads, I consult that of the architect or the engineer. For such or such special knowledge I apply to such or such a savant. But I allow neither the bootmaker nor the architect nor savant to impose his authority upon me. I listen to them freely and with all the respect merited by their intelligence, their character, their knowledge, reserving always my incontestable right of criticism and censure. I do not content myself with consulting a single authority in any special branch; I consult several; I compare their opinions, and choose that which seems to me the soundest. But I recognise no infallible authority, even in special questions; consequently, whatever respect I may have for the honesty and the sincerity of such or such individual, I have no absolute faith in any person\". He saw that \"there is no fixed and constant authority, but a continual exchange of mutual, temporary, and, above all, voluntary authority and subbordination. This same reason forbids me, then, to recognise a fixed, constant and universal authority, because there is no universal man, no man capable of grasping in all that wealth of detail, without which the application of science to life is impossible, all the sciences, all the branches of social life\".\n\nAfter World War II, there was a strong sense of anti-authoritarianism based on anti-fascism in Europe. This was attributed to the active resistance from occupation and to fears arising from the development of superpowers. Anti-authoritarianism has also been associated with countercultural and bohemian movements. In the 1950s, the Beat Generation were politically radical and to some degree their anti-authoritarian attitudes were taken up by activists in the 1960s. The hippie and larger counterculture movements of the 1960s carried out a way of life and activism which was ideally carried through anti-authoritarian and non-violent means. It was observed as such: \"The way of the hippie is antithetical to all repressive hierarchical power structures since they are adverse to the hippie goals of peace, love and freedom... Hippies don't impose their beliefs on others. Instead, hippies seek to change the world through reason and by living what they believe\". In the 1970s, anti-authoritarianism became associated with the punk subculture.\n\n"}
{"id": "31465659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31465659", "title": "Association of European Performers' Organisations", "text": "Association of European Performers' Organisations\n\nThe Association of European Performers' Organisations AEPO-ARTIS unites 28 collective management organisations for performers operating in 21 European countries, and represents them at European level. It is a non-profit making organisation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17658336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17658336", "title": "Barcelona Charter", "text": "Barcelona Charter\n\nThe Barcelona Charter, in full the European Charter for the Conservation and Restoration of Traditional Ships in Operation is an informal but widely accepted standard for maintenance and restoration projects on historic watercraft that are still in operation as active sailing vessels.\n\nMore than a thousand historic watercraft of all sizes are still in operation in Europe. Only a small number of them are registered monuments or real museum ships, while nearly all of them have a certain historic or cultural value in the context of maritime or regional history. The wide majority of historic watercraft are owned and operated by private owners, associations, foundations etc. \nEuropean Maritime Heritage, the European umbrella organization for traditional vessels in operation, decided to develop a code of best practice for the conservation and restoration of such vessels to safeguard the historic value of these vessels and to define minimum methodological standards for any work to be carried out on these vessels.\nA working group mainly consisting of Arne Gotved, John Robinson and the professional maritime historian Ingo Heidbrink drafted the text of the Charter which was finally adopted by European Maritime Heritage in 2003.\n\nThe Barcelona Charter describes in a few paragraphs how conservation and restoration of traditional ships in operation should be done. The basic principles are developed on the basis of the Charter of Venice and include for example the requirement for proper documentation of all work carried out as well as proper historical background research as a basis for all work to be done. The aim of all paragraphs is to safeguard the particular historic value of a vessel for future generations although the vessel is still in operation and therefore certain safety-regulations of today have to be matched.\nThe original text of the Charter was written in English, but unofficial translations are available for a number of European languages (Catalan, Dutch, French, German and Portuguese). \nA detailed commentary on all paragraphs of the Charter was developed by the maritime historian Ingo Heidbrink.\n\n\nAlthough the Barcelona Charter is not a binding legal instrument it is widely accepted as a code of best practice and is recognized by several European marine safety authorities as well as national owner organizations of historic watercraft.\nDespite the fact that the Barcelona Charter was written mainly as a European Charter the principles of the Charter can be applied globally and were for example published by the National Research Institute for Restoration and Conservation of Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2450181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2450181", "title": "Burundian Charter of National Unity referendum, 1991", "text": "Burundian Charter of National Unity referendum, 1991\n\nA referendum on the Charter of National Unity was held in Burundi on 9 February 1991. The charter would abolish ethnic discrimination and give a mandate for the government to write a new constitution. It was approved by 89.77% of voters with a 96% turnout. Following the Charter's approval, work began on the drafting of a new constitution which was approved in a referendum held on 9 March 1992. It was promulgated on 13 March 1992.\n"}
{"id": "6201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6201", "title": "CITES", "text": "CITES\n\nCITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, also known as the Washington Convention) is a multilateral treaty to protect endangered plants and animals. It was drafted as a result of a resolution adopted in 1963 at a meeting of members of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The convention was opened for signature in 1973 and CITES entered into force on 1 July 1975. Its aim is to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of the species in the wild, and it accords varying degrees of protection to more than 35,000 species of animals and plants. In order to ensure that the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was not violated, the Secretariat of GATT was consulted during the drafting process.\n\n, Secretary-General of the CITES Secretariat is John E. Scanlon.\n\nCITES is one of the largest and oldest conservation and sustainable use agreements in existence. Participation is voluntary, and countries that have agreed to be bound by the Convention are known as Parties. Although CITES is legally binding on the Parties, it does not take the place of national laws. Rather it provides a framework respected by each Party, which must adopt their own domestic legislation to implement CITES at the national level. Often, domestic legislation is either non-existent (especially in Parties that have not ratified it), or with penalties with the gravity of the crime and insufficient deterrents to wildlife traders. As of 2002, 50% of Parties lacked one or more of the four major requirements for a Party: designation of Management and Scientific Authorities; laws prohibiting the trade in violation of CITES; penalties for such trade; laws providing for the confiscation of specimens.\n\nFunding for the activities of the Secretariat and Conference of the Parties (CoP) meetings comes from a Trust Fund derived from Party contributions. Trust Fund money is not available to Parties to improve implementation or compliance. These activities, and all those outside Secretariat activities (training, species specific programmes such as Monitoring the Illegal Killing of Elephants - MIKE) must find external funding, mostly from donor countries and regional organizations such as the European Union.\n\nAlthough the Convention itself does not provide for arbitration or dispute in the case of noncompliance, 36 years of CITES in practice has resulted in several strategies to deal with infractions by Parties. The Secretariat, when informed of an infraction by a Party, will notify all other parties. The Secretariat will give the Party time to respond to the allegations and may provide technical assistance to prevent further infractions. Other actions the Convention itself does not provide for but that derive from subsequent COP resolutions may be taken against the offending Party. These include:\nBilateral sanctions have been imposed on the basis of national legislation (e.g. the USA used certification under the Pelly Amendment to get Japan to revoke its reservation to hawksbill turtle products in 1991, thus reducing the volume of its exports).\n\nInfractions may include negligence with respect to permit issuing, excessive trade, lax enforcement, and failing to produce annual reports (the most common).\n\nOriginally, CITES addressed depletion resulting from demand for luxury goods such as furs in Western countries, but with the rising wealth of Asia, particularly in China, the focus changed to products demanded there, particularly those used for luxury goods such as ivory or shark fins or for superstitious purposes such as rhinoceros horn. As of 2013 the demand was massive and had expanded to include thousands of species previously considered unremarkable and in no danger of extinction such as manta rays or pangolins.\n\nThe text of the Convention was finalized at a meeting of representatives of 80 countries in Washington, D.C., United States, on 3 March 1973. It was then open for signature until 31 December 1974. It entered into force after the 10th ratification by a signatory country, on 1 July 1975. Countries that signed the Convention become Parties by ratifying, accepting or approving it. By the end of 2003, all signatory countries had become Parties. States that were not signatories may become Parties by acceding to the Convention. As of October 2016, the Convention has 183 parties, including 182 states and the European Union.\n\nThe CITES Convention includes provisions and rules for trade with non-Parties. All member states of the United Nations are party to the treaty, with the exception of Andorra, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Federated States of Micronesia, Haiti, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, South Sudan, Timor-Leste, Tonga, Turkmenistan, and Tuvalu. UN observer the Holy See is also not a member. The Faroe Islands, an autonomous country in the Kingdom of Denmark, is also treated as a non-Party to CITES (both the Danish mainland and Greenland are part of CITES).\n\nAn amendment to the text of the Convention, known as the Gaborone Amendment allows regional economic integration organizations (REIO), such as the European Union, to have the status of a member state and to be a Party to the Convention. The REIO can vote at CITES meetings with the number of votes representing the number of members in the REIO, but it does not have an additional vote.\n\nIn accordance with Article XVII, paragraph 3, of the CITES Convention, the Gaborone Amendment entered into force on 29 November 2013, 60 days after 54 (two-thirds) of the 80 States that were party to CITES on 30 April 1983 deposited their instrument of acceptance of the amendment. At that time it entered into force only for those States that had accepted the amendment. The amended text of the Convention will apply automatically to any State that becomes a Party after 29 November 2013. For States that became party to the Convention before that date and have not accepted the amendment, it will enter into force 60 days after they accept it.\n\nCITES works by subjecting international trade in specimens of selected species to certain controls. All import, export, re-export and introduction from the sea of species covered by the Convention has to be authorized through a licensing system. According to Article IX of the Convention, Management and Scientific Authorities, each Party to the Convention must designate one or more Management Authorities in charge of administering that licensing system and one or more Scientific Authorities to advise them on the effects of trade on the status of CITES-listed species.\n\nRoughly 5,000 species of animals and 29,000 species of plants are protected by CITES against over-exploitation through international trade. Each protected species or population is included in one of three lists, called appendices (explained below). The Appendix that lists a species or population reflects the extent of the threat to it and the controls that apply to the trade.\n\nSpecies may be split-listed meaning that some populations of a species are on one Appendix, while some are on another. Some people argue that this is risky as specimens from a more protected population could be 'laundered' through the borders of a Party whose population is not as strictly protected. The African bush elephant (\"Loxodonta africana\") is currently split-listed, with all populations except those of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe listed in Appendix I. Those of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe are listed in Appendix II. Listing the species over the whole of its range would prevent such 'laundering' but also restricts trade in wildlife products by range states with good management practices. There are also species that have only some populations listed in an Appendix. One example is the pronghorn (\"Antilocapra americana\"), a ruminant native to North America. Its Mexican population is listed in Appendix I, but its U.S. and Canadian populations are not listed (though certain U.S. populations in Arizona are nonetheless protected under the Endangered Species Act).\n\nSpecies are proposed for inclusion in or deletion from the Appendices at meetings of the Conference of the Parties (CoP), which are held approximately once every three years, the most recent of which was CoP (CoP 17) in Johannesburg, South Africa from 24 September to 5 October 2016 at the Sandton Convention Center.\n\nSpecies in the Appendices may be proposed for addition, change of Appendix, or de-listing (i.e., deletion) by any Party, whether or not it is a range State and changes may be made despite objections by range States if there is sufficient (2/3 majority) support for the listing. These discussions are usually among the most contentious at CoP meetings.\n\nThere has been increasing willingness within the Parties to allow for trade in products from well-managed populations. For instance, sales of the South African white rhino have generated revenues that helped pay for protection. Listing the species on Appendix I increased the price of rhino horn (which fueled more poaching), but the species survived wherever there was adequate on-the-ground protection. Thus field protection may be the primary mechanism that saved the population, but it is likely that field protection would not have been increased without CITES protection.\n\nAppendix I, about 1200 species, are species that are threatened with extinction and are or may be affected by trade. Commercial trade in wild-caught specimens of these species is illegal (permitted only in exceptional licensed circumstances). Captive-bred animals or cultivated plants of Appendix I species are considered Appendix II specimens, with concomitant requirements (see below and Article VII). The Scientific Authority of the exporting country must make a non-detriment finding, assuring that export of the individuals will not adversely affect the wild population. Any trade in these species requires export and import permits. The Management Authority of the exporting state is expected to check that an import permit has been secured and that the importing state is able to care for the specimen adequately. Notable animal species listed in Appendix I include the red panda (\"Ailurus fulgens\"), western gorilla (\"Gorilla gorilla\"), the chimpanzee species (\"Pan spp.\"), tigers (\"Panthera tigris\" subspecies), Asiatic lion (\"Panthera leo persica\"), leopards (\"Panthera pardus\"), jaguar (\"Panthera onca\"), cheetah (\"Acinonyx jubatus\"), Asian elephant (\"Elephas maximus\"), some populations of African bush elephant (\"Loxodonta africana\"), the dugong and manatees (Sirenia), and all rhinoceros species (except some Southern African subspecies populations).\n\nAppendix II, about 21,000 species, are species that are not necessarily threatened with extinction, but may become so unless trade in specimens of such species is subject to strict regulation in order to avoid utilization incompatible with the survival of the species in the wild. In addition, Appendix II can include species similar in appearance to species already listed in the Appendices. International trade in specimens of Appendix II species may be authorized by the granting of an export permit or re-export certificate. In practice, many hundreds of thousands of Appendix II animals are traded annually. No import permit is necessary for these species under CITES, although some Parties do require import permits as part of their stricter domestic measures. A non-detriment finding and export permit are required by the exporting Party.\n\nIn addition, Article VII of CITES states that specimens of animals listed in Appendix I that are bred in captivity for commercial purposes are treated as Appendix II. The same applies for specimens of Appendix I plants artificially propagated for commercial purposes.\n\nExamples of species listed on Appendix II are the great white shark (\"Carcharodon carcharias\"), the American black bear (\"Ursus americanus\"), Hartmann's mountain zebra (\"Equus zebra hartmannae\"), green iguana (\"Iguana iguana\"), queen conch (\"Strombus gigas\"), Emperor scorpion (\"Pandinus imperator\"), Mertens' water monitor (\"Varanus mertensi\"), bigleaf mahogany (\"Swietenia macrophylla\") and lignum vitae \"ironwood\" (\"Guaiacum officinale\").\n\nAppendix III, about 170 species, are species that are listed after one member country has asked other CITES Parties for assistance in controlling trade in a species. The species are not necessarily threatened with extinction globally. In all member countries, trade in these species is only permitted with an appropriate export permit and a certificate of origin from the state of the member country who has listed the species.\n\nExamples of species listed on Appendix III and the countries that listed them are the two-toed sloth (\"Choloepus hoffmanni\") by Costa Rica, sitatunga (Tragelaphus Spekii) by Ghana, African civet (\"Civettictis civetta\") by Botswana, and alligator snapping turtle by the USA.\n\nAmendments to the Convention must be supported by a two-thirds majority who are \"present and voting\" and can be made during an extraordinary meeting of the COP if one-third of the Parties are interested in such a meeting. The Gaborone Amendment (1983) allows regional economic blocs to accede to the treaty. Reservations (Article XXIII) can be made by any Party with respect to any species, which considerably weakens the treaty (see for current reservations). Trade with non-Party states is allowed, although permits and certificates are recommended to be issued by exporters and sought by importers.\n\nNotable reservations include those by Iceland, Japan and Norway on various baleen whale species and those on Falconiformes by Saudi Arabia.\n\nGeneral limitations about the structure and philosophy of CITES include: by design and intent it focuses on trade at the species level and does not address habitat loss, ecosystem approaches to conservation, or poverty; it seeks to prevent unsustainable use rather than promote sustainable use (which generally conflicts with the Convention on Biological Diversity), although this has been changing (see Nile crocodile, African elephant, South African white rhino case studies in Hutton and Dickinson 2000). It does not explicitly address market demand. Funding does not provide for increased on-the-ground enforcement (it must apply for bilateral aid for most projects of this nature).\n\nBy design, CITES regulates and monitors trade in the manner of a \"negative list\" such that trade in all species is permitted and unregulated \"unless\" the species in question appears on the Appendices or looks very much like one of those taxa. Then and only then, trade is regulated or constrained. Because the remit of the Convention covers millions of species of plants and animals, and tens of thousands of these taxa are potentially of economic value, in practice this negative list approach effectively forces CITES signatories to expend limited resources on just a select few, leaving many species to be traded with neither constraint nor review. For example, recently several bird classified as threatened with extinction appeared in the legal wild bird trade because the CITES process never considered their status. If a \"positive list\" approach were taken, only species evaluated and approved for the positive list would be permitted in trade, thus lightening the review burden for member states and the Secretariat, and also preventing inadvertent legal trade threats to poorly known species.\n\nSpecific weaknesses in the text include: it does not stipulate guidelines for the 'non-detriment' finding required of national Scientific Authorities; non-detriment findings require copious amounts of information; the 'household effects' clause is often not rigid enough/specific enough to prevent CITES violations by means of this Article (VII); non-reporting from Parties means Secretariat monitoring is incomplete; and it has no capacity to address domestic trade in listed species.\n\nSuggestions for improvement in the operation of CITES include: more regular missions by the Secretariat (not reserved just for high-profile species); improvement of national legislation and enforcement; better reporting by Parties (and the consolidation of information from all sources-NGOs, TRAFFIC, the wildlife trade monitoring network and Parties); more emphasis on enforcement-including a technical committee enforcement officer; the development of CITES Action Plans (akin to Biodiversity Action Plans related to the Convention on Biological Diversity) including: designation of Scientific/Management Authorities and national enforcement strategies; incentives for reporting and timelines for both Action Plans and reporting. CITES would benefit from access to Global Environment Facility (GEF), funds-although this is difficult given the GEFs more ecosystem approach-or other more regular funds. Development of a future mechanism similar to that of the Montreal Protocol (developed nations contribute to a fund for developing nations) could allow more funds for non-Secretariat activities.\n\nOn 15 July 2008, the Committee of Environmental Insecticides that oversees the administration of the convention between meetings of all the Parties granted China and Japan permission to import elephant ivory from four African government stockpiles, the ivory being sold at a single auction in each country. The amounts to be sold comprise approximately 44 tons from Botswana, 9 tons from Namibia, 51 tons from South Africa, and 4 tons from Zimbabwe. The Chinese government in 2003 acknowledged that it had lost track of 121 tons of ivory between 1991 and 2002.\n\nFrom 2005 – 2009 the legal trade corresponded with these numbers\nIn the 1990s the annual trade of legal animal products was $160 billion annually. In 2009 the estimated value almost doubled to $300 billion.\n\nThe Conference of the Parties (CoP) is held once every three years. The last Conference of the Parties (CoP 17) was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, and the one before it (CoP 16) was held in Bangkok, Thailand, in 2013. The next one (CoP 18) will be in Sri Lanka in 2019. The location of the next CoP is chosen at the close of each CoP by a secret ballot vote.\n\nThe CITES Committees (Animals Committee, Plants Committee and Standing Committee) hold meetings during each year that does not have a CoP, while the Standing committee meets also in years with a CoP. The Committee meetings take place in Geneva, Switzerland (where the Secretariat of the CITES Convention is located), unless another country offers to host the meeting. The Animals and Plants Committees have sometimes held joint meetings. The previous joint meeting was held in March 2012 in Dublin, Ireland, and the latest one was held in Veracruz, Mexico in May 2014.\n\nA current list of upcoming meetings appears on the CITES calendar at http://www.cites.org/eng/news/calendar.php.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58620352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58620352", "title": "California Internet Consumer Protection and Net Neutrality Act of 2018", "text": "California Internet Consumer Protection and Net Neutrality Act of 2018\n\nThe California Internet Consumer Protection and Net Neutrality Act of 2018 is a law in California designed to protect net neutrality. It was signed into law on September 30, 2018.\n\nThe act prevents internet service providers from doing the following things:\n\nThe act has been lauded as the \"gold standard\" of net neutrality laws.\n\nWithin hours, the United States Department of Justice responded by suing the state of California, claiming that states can't have any legislation over the Internet. California has said that they will fight the suit.\n\n"}
{"id": "32023543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32023543", "title": "Company registration in Ghana", "text": "Company registration in Ghana\n\nGhana has several business registration systems. Company registration is done by the Registrar General's Department.\n"}
{"id": "26758262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26758262", "title": "Connecticut Probate Courts", "text": "Connecticut Probate Courts\n\nThe Connecticut Probate Court system is a system of 54 individual probate courts located throughout the state of Connecticut. The jurisdiction of each court extends to the legal affairs of the deceased, estates, some aspects of family law, conservatorship, and several other matters requiring specific legal decisions. As statutory courts, all jurisdiction and authority is governed by the state legislature.\n\nJudges of probate are the only members of the state judicial branch elected in Connecticut. Judges are elected in partisan elections and hold office for a term of four years, their elections held within the same cycle as gubernatorial elections.\n\nPreviously, laws permitted anyone to run as a candidate for judge of probate regardless of previous judicial or legal experience. However, a state law which went into effect on January 5, 2011 now requires candidates for judge of probate to be both a lawyer and a member of the Connecticut bar.\n\nAfter operating without much change since 1850, growing financial difficulties in the state and within the probate courts created the need for the system to be overhauled. In the summer of 2009, the Probate Court Redistricting Commission assembled to review the aging court system and make recommendations for decreasing the number of judicial districts from 117. In September 2009, the commission announced its consolidation plan to reduce the number of districts to 54 for the 2010 elections.\n\nThe currently elected judges of probate, elected from January 2011 through January 2015:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25359645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25359645", "title": "Constitutional Court of Serbia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Serbia\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia () is the court authorized to perform judicial review in Serbia. It rules on whether the laws, decrees or other bills enacted by the Serbian authorities are in conformity with the Constitution. It is not considered as part of the judicial branch, but a court \"sui generis\". The Constitutional Court is authorized by the Constitution itself and the \"Law on the Constitutional Court\".\n\nThe seat of the Constitutional Court is in Belgrade. It consists of 15 judges, one of them being President of the Court.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of the Socialist Republic of Serbia (then part of SFR Yugoslavia) was established on 9 April 1963 as an independent body of the Republic and designated to protect constitutionality and legality in accordance with the Constitution and within the framework of the rights and duties proscribed by the 1963 Constitution of SR Serbia. The \"Constitutional Law of Serbia\", enacted on 25 December 1963, defined jurisdiction and adjudications before the Constitutional Court and legal effects of its decisions in a more specific manner.\n\nThe Constitutional Court of Serbia commenced its work on 15 February 1964. The Constitutional Court has upon proclamation of the 1990 Constitution of Serbia acted within the framework of absence of division of powers, where the Parliament was the highest body of state power. The Constitutional Court has through its presence and work contributed to the importance and contribution in preservation of the constitutional principles and legality.\n\nThe Constitutional Court consists of 15 judges. Five of them are elected by the President of Serbia, five by the National Assembly, and five are elected at the General Session of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Judges are elected to the 9-year term. The candidates have to be accomplished lawyers of at least 40 years of age and with at least 15 years of experience in jurisprudence. One person can be elected to the Court a maximum of two times. After the election, the judges take oath before the President of the National Assembly.\n\nThe term of the Constitutional Court judge ends after 9 years since the election, or by resignation, by retirement or by impeachment. A Constitutional Court judge may not perform any other public office or any other job at all, except for being a professor at the Law School of one of the universities in Serbia. A Constitutional Court judge enjoys immunity from prosecution.\n\nComposition (year of election given in the parenthesis):\n\nSources: \n\n\nThe Library of the Constitutional Court was formed after the Court had been established. According to the profile of its collections, the Library of the Constitutional Court is a specialized law library. The library is in charge of collecting, storing, cataloguing, and circulating literature from different branches of law, with special regard to constitutional legislation. The Library is in possession of a large collection of monographs, serial publications, and collections of papers. In addition, it has an electronic database of legal acts.\n\nThe Constitutional Court Library owns a valuable collection of legal acts issued in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The Library cooperates with the head office of Belgrade City Library, National Library of Serbia and other libraries of similar profile.\n\n\n\"This article incorporates text from the Constitutional Court of Serbia official site (), which is in the public domain, because it is a law, decree, regulation or official material of a Republic of Serbia state body or a body performing public functions, under the terms of Article 6, Paragraph 2 of Serbian copyright law. See .\"\n"}
{"id": "7201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7201", "title": "Contempt of court", "text": "Contempt of court\n\nContempt of court, often referred to simply as \"contempt\", is the offense of being disobedient to or discourteous toward a court of law and its officers in the form of behavior that opposes or defies the authority, justice and dignity of the court. It manifests itself in willful disregard of or disrespect for the authority of a court of law, which is often behavior that is illegal because it does not obey or respect the rules of a law court.\n\nThere are broadly two categories of contempt: being rude or disrespectful to legal authorities in the courtroom, or willfully failing to obey a court order. Contempt proceedings are especially used to enforce equitable remedies, such as injunctions. In some jurisdictions, the refusal to respond to subpoena, to testify, to fulfill the obligations of a juror, or to provide certain information can constitute contempt of the court.\n\nWhen a court decides that an action constitutes contempt of court, it can issue a court order that in the context of a court trial or hearing declares a person or organization to have disobeyed or been disrespectful of the court's authority, called \"found\" or \"held\" in contempt. That is the judge's strongest power to impose sanctions for acts that disrupt the court's normal process.\n\nA finding of being in contempt of court may result from a failure to obey a lawful order of a court, showing disrespect for the judge, disruption of the proceedings through poor behavior, or publication of material or non-disclosure of material, which in doing so is deemed likely to jeopardize a fair trial. A judge may impose sanctions such as a fine or jail for someone found guilty of contempt of court. Judges in common law systems usually have more extensive power to declare someone in contempt than judges in civil law systems. The client or person must be proven guilty before being punished.\n\nContempt of court is essentially seen as a form of disturbance that may impede the functioning of the court. The judge may impose fines and/or jail time upon any person committing contempt of court. The person is usually let out upon his or her agreement to fulfill the wishes of the court. Civil contempt can involve acts of omission. The judge will make use of warnings in most situations that may lead to a person being charged with contempt. It is relatively rare that a person is charged for contempt without first receiving at least one warning from the judge. Constructive contempt, also called \"consequential contempt\", is when a person fails to fulfill the will of the court as it applies to outside obligations of the person. In most cases, constructive contempt is considered to be in the realm of civil contempt due to its passive nature.\n\nIndirect contempt is something that is associated with civil and constructive contempt and involves a failure to follow court orders. Criminal contempt includes anything that could be called a disturbance, such as repeatedly talking out of turn, bringing forth previously banned evidence, or harassment of any other party in the courtroom. Direct contempt is an unacceptable act in the presence of the judge (\"in facie curiae\"), and generally begins with a warning, and may be accompanied by an immediate imposition of punishment. Yawning in some cases can be considered contempt of court.\n\nContempt of court has a significant impact on journalism in the form of restrictions on court reporting which are set out in statute in the UK.\n\nIn Australia a judge may impose a fine or jail for contempt of court, including for refusing to stand up for a judge.\n\nIn Canada, contempt of court is an exception to the general principle that all criminal offences are set out in the federal Criminal Code. Contempt of court is the only remaining common law offence in Canada, besides the related offence of Contempt of Parliament.\n\nContempt of court includes the following behaviors:\n\n\"This section applies only to Federal Court of Appeal and Federal Court.\"\n\nUnder Federal Court Rules, Rules 466, and Rule 467 a person who is accused of Contempt needs to be first served with a contempt order and then appear in court to answer the charges. Convictions can only be made when proof beyond a reasonable doubt is achieved.\n\nIf it is a matter of urgency or the contempt was done in front of a judge, that person can be punished immediately. Punishment can range from the person being imprisoned for a period of less than five years or until the person complies with the order or fine.\n\nUnder Tax Court of Canada Rules of \"Tax Court of Canada Act\", a person who is found to be in contempt may be imprisoned for a period of less than two years or fined. Similar procedures for serving an order first is also used at the Tax Court.\n\nDifferent procedures exist for different provincial courts. For example, in British Columbia, a justice of the peace can only issue a summons to an offender for contempt, which will be dealt with by a judge, even if the offence was done in the face of the justice.\n\nJudges from the Court of Final Appeal, High Court, District Court along with members from the various tribunals and Coroner's Court all have the power to impose immediate punishments for contempt in the face of the court, derived from legislation or through common law:\n\n\nThe use of insulting or threatening language in the magistrates' courts or against a magistrate is in breach of section 99 of the Magistrates Ordinance (Cap 227) which states the magistrate can 'summarily sentence the offender to a fine at level 3 and to imprisonment for 6 months.'\n\nIn addition, certain appeal boards are given the statutory authority for contempt by them (e.g., Residential Care Home, Hotel and Guesthouse Accommodation, Air Pollution Control, etc.). For contempt in front of these boards, the chairperson will certify the act of contempt to the Court of First Instance who will then proceed with a hearing and determine the punishment.\n\nIn India contempt of court is of two types:\nSix months, or fine up to ₹2000, or both.\n\nIn English law (a common law jurisdiction) the law on contempt is partly set out in case law, and partly specified in the Contempt of Court Act 1981. Contempt may be a criminal or civil offence. The maximum sentence for criminal contempt is two years.\n\nDisorderly, contemptuous, or insolent behavior toward the judge or magistrates while holding the court, tending to interrupt the due course of a trial or other judicial proceeding, may be prosecuted as \"direct\" contempt. The term \"direct\" means that the court itself cites the person in contempt by describing the behavior observed on the record. Direct contempt is distinctly different from indirect contempt, wherein another individual may file papers alleging contempt against a person who has willfully violated a lawful court order.\n\nThe Crown Court is a superior court of record under the Senior Courts Act 1981 and accordingly has power to punish for contempt of its own motion. The Divisional Court has stated that this power applies in three circumstances:\n\n\nWhere it is necessary to act quickly the judge (even the trial judge) may act to sentence for contempt.\n\nWhere it is not necessary to be so urgent, or where indirect contempt has taken place the Attorney General can intervene and the Crown Prosecution Service will institute criminal proceedings on his behalf before a Divisional Court of the Queen's Bench Division of the High Court of Justice of England and Wales.\n\nMagistrates' courts are not superior courts of record, but nonetheless have powers granted under the Contempt of Court Act 1981. They may detain any person who insults the court or otherwise disrupts its proceedings until the end of the sitting. Upon the contempt being either admitted or proved the judge or JP may imprison the offender for a maximum of one month, fine them up to £2,500, or do both.\n\nIt is contempt of court to bring an audio recording device or picture-taking device of any sort into an English court without the consent of the court.\n\nIt is not contempt of court (under section 10 of the Act) for a journalist to refuse to disclose his sources, unless the court has considered the evidence available and determined that the information is \"necessary in the interests of justice or national security or for the prevention of disorder or crime\".\n\nUnder the Contempt of Court Act 1981 it is criminal contempt of court to publish anything which creates a real risk that the course of justice in proceedings may be seriously impaired. It only applies where proceedings are active, and the Attorney General has issued guidance as to when he believes this to be the case, and there is also statutory guidance. The clause prevents the newspapers and media from publishing material that is too extreme or sensationalist about a criminal case until the trial or linked trials are over and the juries have given their verdicts.\n\nSection 2 of the Act limits the common law presumption that conduct may be treated as contempt regardless of intention: now only cases where there is a substantial risk of serious prejudice to a trial are affected.\n\nIn civil proceedings there are two main ways in which contempt is committed:\n\n\nIn United States jurisprudence, acts of contempt are generally divided into direct or indirect and civil or criminal. Direct contempt occurs in the presence of a judge; civil contempt is \"coercive and remedial\" as opposed to punitive. In the United States, relevant statutes include and Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 42.\n\n\nContempt of court in a civil suit is generally not considered to be a criminal offense, with the party benefiting from the order also holding responsibility for the enforcement of the order. However, some cases of civil contempt have been perceived as intending to harm the reputation of the plaintiff, or to a lesser degree, the judge or the court.\n\nSanctions for contempt may be criminal or civil. If a person is to be punished criminally, then the contempt must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt, but once the charge is proven, then punishment (such as a fine or, in more serious cases, imprisonment) is imposed unconditionally. The civil sanction for contempt (which is typically incarceration in the custody of the sheriff or similar court officer) is limited in its imposition for so long as the disobedience to the court's order continues: once the party complies with the court's order, the sanction is lifted. The imposed party is said to \"hold the keys\" to his or her own cell, thus conventional due process is not required. In federal and most state courts, the burden of proof for civil contempt is clear and convincing evidence, a lower standard than in criminal cases.\n\nIn civil contempt cases there is no principle of proportionality. In \"Chadwick v. Janecka\" (3d Cir. 2002), a U.S. court of appeals held that H. Beatty Chadwick could be held indefinitely under federal law, for his failure to produce US$2.5 million as state court ordered in a civil trial. Chadwick had been imprisoned for nine years at that time and continued to be held in prison until 2009, when a state court set him free after 14 years, making his imprisonment the longest on a contempt charge to date.\n\nCivil contempt is only appropriate when the imposed party has the power to comply with the underlying order. Controversial contempt rulings have periodically arisen from cases involving asset protection trusts, where the court has ordered a settlor of an asset protection trust to repatriate assets so that the assets may be made available to a creditor. A court cannot maintain an order of contempt where the imposed party does not have the ability to comply with the underlying order. This claim when made by the imposed party is known as the \"impossibility defense\".\n\nContempt of court is considered a prerogative of the court, and \"the requirement of a jury does not apply to 'contempts committed in disobedience of any lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or command entered in any suit or action brought or prosecuted in the name of, or on behalf of, the United States.'\" This stance is not universally agreed with by other areas of the legal world, and there have been many calls to have contempt cases to be tried by jury, rather than by judge, as a potential conflict of interest rising from a judge both accusing and sentencing the defendant. At least one Supreme Court Justice has made calls for jury trials to replace judge trials on contempt cases.\n\nThe United States Marshals Service is the agency component that first holds all federal prisoners. It uses the Prisoner Population Management System /Prisoner Tracking System. The only types of records that are disclosed as being in the system are those of \"federal prisoners who are in custody pending criminal proceedings.\" The records of \"alleged civil contempors\" are not listed in the Federal Register as being in the system leading to a potential claim for damages under The Privacy Act, .\n\nIn the United States, because of the broad protections granted by the First Amendment, with extremely limited exceptions, unless the media outlet is a party to the case, a media outlet cannot be found in contempt of court for reporting about a case because a court cannot order the media in general not to report on a case or forbid it from reporting facts discovered publicly. Newspapers cannot be closed because of their content.\n\nThere have been criticisms over the practice of trying contempt from the bench. In particular, Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black wrote in a dissent, \"It is high time, in my judgment, to wipe out root and branch the judge-invented and judge-maintained notion that judges can try criminal contempt cases without a jury.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215320", "title": "Copyright law of Hong Kong", "text": "Copyright law of Hong Kong\n\nCopyright law in Hong Kong to a great extent follows the English model. The Basic Law of Hong Kong, its constitutional document, guarantees a high degree of autonomy and continuation of laws previously in force after its reunification with Mainland China. Hong Kong therefore continues to maintain a separate intellectual property regime from Mainland China. Article 139 and 140 of the Basic Law specifically deal with the protection of copyright in Hong Kong.\n\nArticle 139\n\nThe Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, on its own, formulate policies on science and technology and protect by law achievements in scientific and technological research, patents, discoveries and inventions.\n\nThe Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, on its own, decide on the scientific and technological standards and specifications applicable in Hong Kong. \nArticle 140\n\nThe Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall, on its own, formulate policies on culture and protect by law the achievements and the lawful rights and interests of authors in their literary and artistic creation.\n\nApart from general substantive criteria, for Copyright to subsist in a work, the statutory requirements with respect to qualification for copyright protection in s 177 must be met (Copyright Ordinance s 2(3)).\n\nHong Kong has broad copyright protection thanks to its open-qualification system under Copyright Ordinance ss177(1)(a), 177(1)(b) and 178. It means that no requirements of nationality or other status of the author, or of the work's place of first publication need to be satisfied before a work is eligible for protection. Works transmitted over Internet, radio, televisions are all under protection (ss26 and 177(1)(c)).\n\nNonetheless, Copyright Ordinance s 180(1) allows the Chief Executive to deny or limit copyright protection for works originating in non-reciprocating jurisdictions.\n\nThe Copyright Ordinance (Cap 528), which became effective on 27 June 1997, is Hong Kong's first purely local copyright law. However, the Copyright Act 1956 of the United Kingdom will continue to apply to the protection of copyright of works created before 27 June 1997.\n\nCopyright Ordinance (Cap 528) s 2(i)(a) protects 9 categories of copyrighted works:\n\n\nIn order to successfully claim for copyright protection, 3 criteria must be satisfied: (1) the subject matter must be a 'work'; (2) the work must fall within 1 of the 9 categories stated in s.2(1) of the Hong Kong Copyright Ordinance; and (3) the work must be original if the subject matter is a literary, dramatic, musical or artistic work.\n\nS.17 to 21 of the Copyright Ordinance deal with the duration of copyright works. The author of the work is deemed to be the person who creates the work (with exceptions for commissioned works and employee works). S.17(1) to (5) states that the duration of copyright of literary, dramatic, musical and artistic works is the life of the author plus 50 years, or 50 years from the end of the year in which the work was first created or made available to the public if the identity of the author is not known. \n\nExcept for typographical arrangement of published editions, the duration of copyright in other works is also 50 years from certain events specified in the Copyright Ordinance.\n\nThe duration of copyright in typographical arrangement of published editions is 25 years from the year of first publication, according to S.21 of the Copyright Ordinance.\n\nThe Hong Kong Copyright Ordinance Pt II Div IV (ss 89-100) recognizes the following two types of moral rights (\"droit d'auteur\") in favour of the author, director or commissioner of the work regardless of whether he is the owner of the copyright: (i) Right to be identified as author or director (Copyright Ordinance s 89); and (ii) Right to object to derogatory treatment of work Copyright Ordinance s 92.\n\nControversial changes criminalising the copying of materials in the course of trade were introduced in 2000: insofar as they affect printed matter, these were quickly suspended following an outcry from educational groups and consumer groups. The suspension, provided in the Copyright (Suspension of Amendments) Ordinance 2001, will expire on 31 July 2004. Hong Kong is currently unique in the common law world for treating copying infringing materials differently between printed and non-printed materials.\n\nCopyright laws are administered by the Intellectual Property Department of the Hong Kong Government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16648168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16648168", "title": "Cross-border injunction", "text": "Cross-border injunction\n\nIn European Union law, and especially in European intellectual property law, a cross-border injunction is an injunction by a court in one European country, such as for example a court in the Netherlands forbidding infringement in several other European countries.\n\nThe Brussels Regime instruments are a set of similar legal instruments, based on which jurisdiction (and recognition) is determined. The instruments are the Brussels I Regulations (44/2001 and 1215/2012), Lugano Conventions (1998, 2007) and the Brussels Convention (1968). The conventions together cover the European Union, Iceland, Norway, Switzerland, Aruba and all French territories. \n\nA legal basis for cross-border injunctions may amongst others be found in Article 6(1) (most instruments) or Article 8(1) (EU regulation 1215/2012), providing that \"a person domiciled in a Member State to also be sued\n\nFor a period in the late-1990s, national courts issued cross-border injunctions covering all Brussels regime jurisdictions, but this has been limited by the European Court of Justice (ECJ). \n\nIn two cases in July 2006, interpreting Articles 6(1) and 16(4) of the Brussels Convention, the ECJ held that European patents are national rights that must be enforced nationally, that it was \"unavoidable\" that infringements of the same European patent have to be litigated in each relevant national court, even if the lawsuit is against the same group of companies, and that cross-border injunctions are not available. In particular, the court set forth in grounds 41 of case C-539/03 that \"Article 6(1) of the Brussels Convention ... does not apply in European patent infringement proceedings involving a number of companies established in various Contracting States in respect of acts committed in one or more of those States even where those companies, which belong to the same group, may have acted in an identical or similar manner in accordance with a common policy elaborated by one of them\". In other words, there will be no close connection between claims as required by Article 6(1) if two closely connected companies domiciled in different Contracting States act (infringe) in the same manner.\n\nAlso in 2006, the ECJ decided on case C-04/03 (GAT/LUK). The court ruled that \"Article 16(4) of the Convention … is to be interpreted as meaning that the rule of exclusive jurisdiction laid down therein concerns all proceedings relating to the registration or validity of a patent, irrespective of whether the issue is raised by way of an action or a plea in objection\". As of 2015, Article 16(4) of the Convention corresponds to Article 24(4) of EU regulation 1215/2012. The ruling in case C-04/03 confirms that the courts of each Contracting State have exclusive jurisdiction on validity of patents registered for the territory of that State. Exclusive jurisdiction under Article 22(4) applies irrespective of whether a patent proprietor is sued for revocation or whether an alleged infringer asserts invalidity in inter partes proceedings.\n\nIn 2012, nearly six years after its rulings on cases C-04/03 and C-539/03, the ECJ decided on case C-616/10 (Solvay/Honeywell). The court held that \"Article 22(4) of Regulation No 44/2001 must be interpreted as not precluding, in circumstances such as those at issue in the main proceedings, the application of Article 31 of that regulation\". Since Article 31 is about provisional measures, a court may issue a cross-border injunction where an action aims for such measures. The ruling on case C-539/03 allows for a court to issue cross-border injunctions as provisional measures where companies domiciled in different Contracting States infringe in the same Contracting State.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23481981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23481981", "title": "Cross-national cooperation and agreements", "text": "Cross-national cooperation and agreements\n\nIntegration is a political and economic agreement among countries that gives preference to member countries to the agreement. General integration can be achieved in three different approachable ways: through the World Trade Organization (WTO), bilateral integration, and regional integration. In bilateral integration, only two countries economically cooperate with one another, whereas in regional integration, several countries within the same geographic distance become joint to form organizations such as the European Union (EU) and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Indeed, factors of mobility like capital, technology and labour are indicating strategies for cross-national integration along with those mentioned above.\n\nThe WTO is one of the most effective trade agreements among nations. The WTO replaced the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 1995 and has 125 member nations.currently 153 member are part of WTO. Many believe GATT initiated rampant liberalization in trade in 1947 and its move contributed to the expansion of trade all over the world by eliminating tariff and quotas. Moreover, WTO continued GATT's principle with more multilateral forum, which enables governments to settle agreements or to dispute them regarding trade.\nRapid growth of trade among nations has forced the agreement to be acknowledged as a fundamental basis for the member nations to follow certain rules and regulations as the signatories of the agreement. As a result, WTO expanded its mission to include trade in services, investments, intellectual property, sanitary measures, plant health, agriculture, and textiles, as well as technical baariers to trade.\n\nThe largest and most comprehensive regional economic group is the EU. It began as a free trade agreement with the goal to become a customs union and to integrate in other ways. The formation of the European Parliament and the establishment of a Euro the common currency make EU the most ambitious in comparison to other regional trade groups. It progressed from being the European Economic Community (EEC) to the European Community (EC) to finally the European Union. Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland who decided not to leave European Free Trade Area are linked together with the EU as a customs union. The EU comprises 28 countries, including 12 countries from mostly Central and Eastern Europe that joined since 2004. The EU abolished trade barriers on intra-zonal trade, instituted a common external tariff, created a common currency, the euro.\n\nThe implications of the EU for corporate strategy are: \n\nNAFTA is designed to eliminate tariff barriers and liberalize investment opportunities and trade in services. NAFTA includes Canada, Mexico, and the United States, where went into effect in 1994. The United States and Canada historically have had various forms of mutual economic cooperation. They signed the Canada-United States Free Trade Agreement effective January 1, 1989, which eliminated all tariffs on bilateral trade by January 1, 1998. In February 1991, Mexico approached the United States to establish a free trade agreement. The formal negotiations that began in June 1991 included Canada. The resulting North American Free Trade Agreement became effective on January 1, 1994.\n\nThe main provisions in NAFTA are:\n\n\nThere are six major regional economic groups in the Americas and they can be further divided into Central America and South America. The major reason for these different groups in Central and South America entering into collaboration was market size. The Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM) and the Central American Common Market (CACM) are both found in Central America. The two major blocs in South America are the Andean Community (CAN) and the Southern Common Market (MERCOSUR) which is the major trade group. MERCOSUR comprises Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. It generates 75 percent of South America’s GDP and this makes MERCOSUR the fourth largest trading bloc in the world after the EU, NAFTA, and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). \n\nSince August 23, 2008, there exists another integration initiative, the Union of South American Nations (\"UNASUR\"). It includes all independent states of South America with about 400 Million people and intends to create a level of integration similar to the European Union by 2025.\n\nRegional economic integration has not been as successful in Asia as in the EU or NAFTA because most Asian countries have relied on U.S. and European markets for their exports. The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), formed in 1967, consisted of the following countries: Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. The ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA), formed officially in 1993, was for the purpose of cutting tariffs on inter-regional trade to a maximum of 5% by 2008. ASEAN is the third largest free trade agreement in the world after the EU and NAFTA and above MERCOSUR. The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC), founded in 1989, was to promote multilateral economic cooperation in trade and investment in the Pacific Rim. APEC is composed of 21 countries that border the Pacific Rim; progress toward free trade is hampered by size and geographic distance between member countries and the lack of a treaty.\n\nThere are several regional trade groups in Africa that are registered with the WTO, including:\n\nCreated in 2002 by 53 African nations, the African Union took the place of the Organization of African Unity (OAU). The OAU was established in 1963 and focuses its energy and resources on political issues in Africa (notably colonialism and racism) and the pursuit of market liberalization and economic growth in Africa.\n"}
{"id": "1461562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1461562", "title": "Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.", "text": "Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.\n\nDaubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 509 U.S. 579 (1993), is a United States Supreme Court case determining the standard for admitting expert testimony in federal courts. The \"Daubert\" Court held that the enactment of the Federal Rules of Evidence implicitly overturned the Frye standard; the standard that the Court articulated is referred to as the Daubert standard.\n\nJason Daubert and Eric Schuller had been born with serious birth defects. They and their parents sued Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc., a subsidiary of Dow Chemical Company, in a California District Court, claiming that the drug Bendectin had caused the birth defects. Merrell Dow removed the case to federal court, and then moved for summary judgment because their expert submitted documents showing that no published scientific study demonstrated a link between Bendectin and birth defects. Daubert and Schuller submitted expert evidence of their own that suggested that Bendectin could cause birth defects. Daubert and Schuller's evidence, however, was based on \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" animal studies, pharmacological studies, and reanalysis of other published studies, and these methodologies had not yet gained acceptance within the general scientific community.\n\nThe district court granted summary judgment for Merrell Dow, and Daubert and Schuller appealed to the Ninth Circuit. The Ninth Circuit found the district court correctly granted summary judgment because the plaintiffs' proffered evidence had not yet been accepted as a reliable technique by scientists who had had an opportunity to scrutinize and verify the methods used by those scientists. Furthermore, the Ninth Circuit was skeptical of the fact that the plaintiffs' evidence appeared to be generated in preparation for litigation. Without their proffered evidence, the Ninth Circuit doubted that the plaintiffs could prove at a trial that the Bendectin had, in fact, caused the birth defects about which they were complaining.\n\nIn a 1923 case, \"Frye v. United States\", 293 F. 1013 (D.C. Cir. 1923), the D.C. Circuit held that evidence could be admitted in court only if \"the thing from which the deduction is made\" is \"sufficiently established to have gained general acceptance in the particular field in which it belongs.\" \"Frye\" dealt with a systolic blood pressure deception test, a \"crude precursor\" to the polygraph. In 1923, this blood pressure test was not widely accepted among scientists, and so the \"Frye\" court ruled it could not be used in court. Over the years, scholars disputed the proper scope and application of the \"Frye\" test.\n\nThe plaintiffs successfully argued that after Congress adopted the Federal Rules of Evidence in 1975, \"Frye\" was no longer the governing standard for admitting scientific evidence in trials held in federal court. The Supreme Court agreed and had already ruled that where common law rules conflicted with provisions of the Rules, the enactment of the Rules had the effect of supplanting the common law. \"Frye\" was certainly part of the federal common law of evidence because it was decided almost 50 years before the Rules were enacted. But the text of the Rules did not suggest that Congress intended to keep the \"Frye\" rule, and so the Court reasoned that \"Frye\" was no longer the rule.\n\nRule 702 of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides (in part):\n\nIf scientific, technical, or other specialized knowledge will assist the trier of fact to understand the evidence or to determine a fact in issue, a witness qualified as an expert by knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education, may testify thereto in the form of an opinion or otherwise...\n\nThe text of Rule 702 did not make admissibility of expert testimony depend on general acceptance, and there was no evidence that Congress intended to incorporate a general acceptance standard into Rule 702. \"Given the Rules' permissive backdrop and their inclusion of a specific rule on expert testimony that does not mention 'general acceptance,' the assertion that the Rules somehow assimilated \"Frye\" is unconvincing. \"Frye\" made 'general acceptance' the exclusive test for admitting expert testimony. That austere standard, absent from, and incompatible with, the Federal Rules of Evidence, should not be applied in federal trials.\"\n\nThree key provisions of the Rules governed admission of expert testimony in court. First, \"scientific knowledge\", meaning that the testimony must be scientific in nature and must be grounded in \"knowledge.\" Of course, science does not claim to know anything with absolute certainty; science \"represents a \"process\" for proposing and refining theoretical explanations about the world that are subject to further testing and refinement.\" The \"scientific knowledge\" contemplated by Rule 702 had to be arrived at by the scientific method.\n\nSecond, the scientific knowledge must \"assist the trier of fact\" in understanding the evidence or determining a fact in issue in the case. The trier of fact is often either a jury or a judge; but other fact finders may exist within the contemplation of the federal rules of evidence. To be helpful to the trier of fact, there must be a \"valid scientific connection to the pertinent inquiry as a prerequisite to admissibility.\" For example, although it is within the purview of scientific knowledge, knowing whether the moon was full on a given night does not typically assist the trier of fact in knowing whether a person was sane when he or she committed a given act.\n\nThird, the Rules expressly provided that the judge would make the threshold determination regarding whether certain scientific knowledge would indeed assist the trier of fact in the manner contemplated by Rule 702. \"This entails a preliminary assessment of whether the reasoning or methodology underlying the testimony is scientifically valid and of whether that reasoning or methodology properly can be applied to the facts in issue.\" This preliminary assessment can turn on whether something has been tested, whether an idea has been subjected to scientific peer review or published in scientific journals, the rate of error involved in the technique, and even general acceptance, among other things. It focuses on methodology and principles, not the ultimate conclusions generated.\n\nThe Court stressed that the new standard under Rule 702 was rooted in the judicial process and intended to be distinct and separate from the search for scientific truth. \"Scientific conclusions are subject to perpetual revision. Law, on the other hand, must resolve disputes finally and quickly. The scientific project is advanced by broad and wide-ranging consideration of a multitude of hypotheses, for those that are incorrect will eventually be shown to be so, and that in itself is an advance.\" Rule 702 was intended to resolve legal disputes and, thus, had to be interpreted in conjunction with other rules of evidence and with other legal means of ending those disputes.\n\nCross examination within the adversary process is adequate to help legal decision makers arrive at efficient ends to disputes. \"We recognize that, in practice, a gatekeeping role for the judge, no matter how flexible, inevitably on occasion will prevent the jury from learning of authentic insights and innovations. That, nevertheless, is the balance that is struck by Rules of Evidence designed not for the exhaustive search for cosmic understanding but for the particularized resolution of legal disputes.\"\n\nAfter Daubert, it was expected that the range of scientific opinion evidence used in court would be expanded. However, courts have strictly applied the standards in Daubert, and it has generally been successful in excluding \"junk science\" or \"pseudoscience\", as well as new or experimental techniques and research that the decision might have been expected to deem admissible.\n\nDiscerning between science and \"pseudoscience\" was the theme of a book by Karl Popper whose summary was quoted in Daubert: \"the criterion of the scientific status of a theory is its falsifiability, or refutability, or testability.\" The book, \"Conjectures and Refutations: The Growth of Scientific Knowledge\" (5th ed. 1989), pp. 34–57, explains how psychology is more like astrology than astronomy because it does not make predictions about an individual which are falsifiable. He wrote that \"the impressive thing about\" Einstein's predictions \"is the risk involved...If observation shows that the predicted effect is definitely absent, then the theory is simply refuted.\" But \"it was impossible to describe a human behaviour\" which would be accepted as proving psychology false.\n\nThe considerations in Daubert do not all have to be met for the evidence to be admitted. It is necessary only that the majority of the tests be substantially complied with.\n\nThe principle in Daubert was expanded in \"Kumho Tire Co. v. Carmichael\", where the evidence in question was from a technician and not a scientist. The technician was going to testify that the only possible cause of a tire blowout must have been a manufacturing defect, as he could not determine any other possible cause. The Court of Appeal had admitted the evidence on the assumption that Daubert did not apply to technical evidence, only scientific evidence. The Supreme Court reversed, saying that the standard in Daubert could apply to merely technical evidence, but that in this case, the evidence of the proposed expert did not meet the standard.\n\nWhile not a matter of law, discussions, corrections, and recriminations on this point from time to time vex attorneys and others among whom the subject of this case arises. Michael H. Gottesman, Jason Daubert's attorney reports that Daubert and his family do not affect the French pronunciation, which would be sounded similar to \"dough-bear\" . Rather, they pronounce their family name in the same manner as \"Dow-Burt\". The popular use of the French pronunciation may have arisen from Gottesman refraining from correcting the justices during oral argument before the Supreme Court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22656247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22656247", "title": "Double-skin facade", "text": "Double-skin facade\n\nThe double-skin facade is a system of building consisting of two skins, or facades, placed in such a way that air flows in the intermediate cavity. The ventilation of the cavity can be natural, fan supported or mechanical. Apart from the type of the ventilation inside the cavity, the origin and destination of the air can differ depending mostly on climatic conditions, the use, the location, the occupational hours of the building and the HVAC strategy.\n\nThe glass skins can be single or double glazing units with a distance from 20 cm up to 2 metres. Often, for protection and heat extraction reasons during the cooling period, solar shading devices are placed inside the cavity.\n\nThe essential concept of the double-skin facade was first explored and tested by the Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier in the early 20th century. His idea, which he called \"mur neutralisant\" (neutralizing wall), involved the insertion of heating/cooling pipes between large\nlayers of glass. Such a system was employed in his Villa Schwob (La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland, 1916), and proposed for several other projects, including the League of Nations competition (1927), Centrosoyuz building (Moscow, 1928–33), and Cité du Refuge (Paris, 1930). American engineers studying the system in 1930 informed Le Corbusier that it would use much more energy than a conventional air system, but Harvey Bryan later concluded Le Corbusier's idea had merit if it included solar heating.\n\nAnother early experiment was the 1937 Alfred Loomis house by architect William Lescaze in Tuxedo Park, NY. This house included \"an elaborate double envelope\" with a 2-foot-deep air space conditioned by a separate system from the house itself. The object was to maintain high humidity levels inside.\n\nOne of the first modern examples to be constructed was the Occidental Chemical Building (Niagara Falls, New York, 1980) by Cannon Design. This building, essentially a glass cube, included a 4-feet-deep cavity between glass layers to pre-heat air in winter.\n\nThe recent resurgence of efficient building design has renewed interest in this concept. Since the USGBC rewards points for reduction in energy consumption vs. a base case, this strategy has been used to optimize energy performance of buildings.\n\nExamples of notable buildings which utilise a double-skin facade are 30 St Mary Axe (also known as \"The Gherkin\") and 1 Angel Square. Both of these buildings achieve great environmental credentials for their size, with the benefits of a double skin key to this. The Gherkin features triangular windows on the outer skin which skelter up the skyscraper. These windows open according to weather and building data, allowing more or less air to cross flow through the building for ventilation.\n\nThe cavity between the two skins may be either naturally or mechanically ventilated. In cool climates the solar gain within the cavity may be circulated to the occupied space to offset heating requirements, while in hot climates the cavity may be vented out of the building to mitigate solar gain and decrease the cooling load. In each case the assumption is that a higher insulative value may be achieved by using this glazing configuration versus a conventional glazing configuration.\n\nRecent studies showed that the energy performance of a building connected to a double-skin facade can be improved both in the cold and the warm season or in cold and warm climates by optimizing the ventilation strategy of the facade.\n\nThe advantages of double-skin facades over conventional single skin facades are not clear-cut; similar insulative values may be obtained using conventional high performance, low-e windows. The cavity results in a decrease in usable floor space, and depending on the strategy for ventilating the cavity, it may have problems with condensation, becoming soiled or introducing outside noise. The construction of a second skin may also present a significant increase in materials and design costs.\n\nBuilding energy modelling of double-skin facades is inherently more difficult because of varying heat transfer properties within the cavity, making the modeling of energy performance and the prediction of savings debatable.\n\nA literature review on double-skin facades was written by Harris Poirazis in 2004. The main aim of the report is to describe the concept of double-skin facades based on different sources of literature. The literature survey covers a brief description of the concept, history and common double-skin facade types and classifications. A technical description including construction parameters, (facade) opening principles and choice of panes and shading devices is also given. The possibilities and limitations of the system are described and the advantages and disadvantages are presented. Daylight simulations control strategies are also discussed. Finally, roughly 50 case studies are briefly described.\n\nIn order to serve as a literature report for the SHC IEA Task 34/ECBCS Annex 43 an extensive description of modeling approaches and methods for DSF was added in the existing literature review report (in 2006), covering modeling issues including airflow and thermal simulations. In his PhD thesis, an analysis of different double-skin facade types is carried out and conclusions are drawn for integration in Nordic climatic conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26394074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26394074", "title": "Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act 2000", "text": "Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act 2000\n\nThe Energy Efficiency and Conservation Act is an Act of Parliament in New Zealand. It is administered by the Ministry for the Environment.\n\nThe Act established the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority.\n\nThe Act requires the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority to prepare a national energy efficiency and conservation strategy for approval by the administering Minister.\n\nThe minister is required to have a national energy efficiency and conservation strategy in force at all times.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15421680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15421680", "title": "Friedman's Inc.", "text": "Friedman's Inc.\n\nFriedman's Inc. was a US company that owned and operated fine jewelry specialty stores under the names Friedman's Jewelers and Crescent Jewelers. The company declared bankruptcy in 2008 and had shuttered all stores by June 2008.\n\nThe company was established in Savannah, Georgia in 1920. Friedman's Inc. was headquartered in Addison, Texas. They were the third largest jewelry company in the US. Friedman's stressed value and low prices, owning the trademark \"The Value Leader\" and advertising \"Unbeatable Values\". Unlike many chain jewelers, Friedman's had many of its locations in power centers and strip malls, besides enclosed malls and outlet centers. The company had stated that they preferred locations anchored by a discounter \"big box\" store, almost always Wal-Mart. This fits with their core demographic of lower to middle income customers between 18 and 40.\n\nDue to a bankruptcy filing in early 2008, Friedman's and Crescent liquidated all of their stores save for a small number of locations purchased by Whitehall Jewelers Inc. for approximately 14 million dollars. Whitehall went bankrupt shortly after the purchase and began liquidating all of its stores in August 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Windsor Fine Jewelers, LLC based in Augusta, GA, purchased the trademark \"Friedman's Jewelers\" and opened a location in Augusta, GA. In 2017, they launched the www.friedmans.com e-commerce platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "40865460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40865460", "title": "Glass–Steagall in post-financial crisis reform debate", "text": "Glass–Steagall in post-financial crisis reform debate\n\n<includeonly><onlyinclude>\nFollowing the financial crisis of 2007-08, legislators unsuccessfully tried to reinstate Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32 as part of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Currently, bills are pending in United States Congress that would revise banking law regulation based on Glass–Steagall inspired principles. Both in the United States and elsewhere banking reforms have been proposed that also refer to Glass–Steagall principles. These proposals raise issues that were addressed during the long Glass–Steagall debate in the United States, including issues of \"ring fencing\" commercial banking operations and \"narrow banking\" proposals that would sharply reduce the permitted activities of commercial banks.\n\nPlease see the main article, Glass–Steagall in post-financial crisis reform debate, for information about the following topics:\n</onlyinclude></includeonly>\n\nThis article is about efforts in the United States to reinstate repealed sections of the Glass–Steagall Act following the financial crisis of 2007-08; and the adoption or proposal of similar financial reforms in the United States and elsewhere.\n\nDuring the 2009 United States House of Representatives consideration of H.R. 4173, the bill that became the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Representative Maurice Hinchey (D-NY) proposed an amendment to the bill that would have reenacted Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32, which had been repealed by the 1999 Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act (GLBA), and also prohibited bank insurance activities. The amendment was not voted on by the House.\n\nOn December 16, 2009, Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced in the United States Senate the \"Banking Integrity Act of 2009\" (S.2886), which would have reinstated Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32, but was not voted on by the Senate.\n\nBefore the Senate acted on its version of what became the Dodd–Frank Act, the Congressional Research Service issued a report describing securities activities banks and their affiliates had conducted before the GLBA. The Report stated Glass–Steagall had \"imperfectly separated, to a certain degree\" commercial and investment banking and described the extensive securities activities the Federal Reserve Board had authorized for \"Section 20 affiliates\" since the 1980s.\n\nThe Obama Administration has been criticized for opposing Glass–Steagall reenactment. In 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner testified to the Joint Economic Committee that he opposed reenacting Glass–Steagall and that he did not believe \"the end of Glass–Steagall played a significant role\" in causing the financial crisis.\n\nOn April 12, 2011, Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH) introduced in the House the \"Return to Prudent Banking Act of 2011\" (H.R. 129), which would have (1) amended the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to add prohibitions on FDIC insured bank affiliations instead of reenacting the affiliation restrictions in Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32, (2) directed federal banking regulators and courts to interpret these affiliation provisions and Glass–Steagall Sections 16 and 21 in accordance with the Supreme Court decision in \"Investment Company Institute v. Camp\", and (3) repealed various GLBA changes to the Bank Holding Company Act. The bill was reported to a House subcommittees but not further acted upon before the 112th Congress adjourned.\n\nOn May 16, 2013, Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA) introduced S. 985 to restore the original Glass-Steagall Act, on the 80th anniversary of the original act. On July 13, 2013 Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) introduced alongside John McCain (R-AZ), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Angus King (I-ME) the 21st Century Glass–Steagall Act (S.1282). Warren wrote in a press release: \"The 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act will reestablish a wall between commercial and investment banking, make our financial system more stable and secure, and protect American families.\" Instead of restoring repealed Glass–Steagall sections 20 and 32, the bill would\n\nMany of her colleagues remain opposed, such as the Senators from Delaware, home to the corporate offices of many major banks.\n\nThe Dodd–Frank Act included the Volcker Rule, which among other things limited proprietary trading by banks and their affiliates. This proprietary trading ban will generally prevent commercial banks and their affiliates from acquiring non-governmental securities with the intention of selling those securities for a profit in the \"near term.\" Some have described the Volcker Rule, particularly its proprietary trading ban, as \"Glass–Steagall lite.\"\n\nAs described in , Glass–Steagall restricted commercial bank \"dealing\" in, not \"trading\" of, non-government securities the bank was permitted to purchase as \"investment securities.\" After the GLBA became law, Glass–Steagall Section 16 continued to restrict bank securities purchases. The GLBA, however, expanded the list of \"bank-eligible\" securities to permit banks to buy, underwrite, and deal in municipal revenue bonds, not only \"full faith and credit\" government bonds.\n\nThe Volcker Rule permits \"market making\" and other \"dealer\" activities in non-government securities as services for customers. Glass–Steagall Section 16 prohibits banks from being a \"market maker\" or otherwise \"dealing\" in non-government (i.e., \"bank-ineligible\") securities. Glass–Steagall Section 16 permits a bank to purchase and sell (i.e., permits \"trading\") for a bank's own account non-government securities that the OCC approves as \"investment securities.\" The Volcker Rule will prohibit such \"proprietary trading\" of non-government securities.\n\nBefore and after the late-2000s financial crisis, banking regulators worried that banks were incorrectly reporting non-traded assets as held in their \"trading account\" because of lower regulatory capital requirements for assets held in a \"trading account.\" Under the Volcker Rule, U.S. banking regulators have proposed that banks and their affiliates be prohibited from holding any asset (other than government securities and other listed exceptions) as a \"trading position.\"\n\nSenators Jeff Merkley (D-OR) and Carl Levin (D-MI) have written that \"proprietary trading losses\" played \"a central role in bringing the financial system to its knees.\" They wrote that the Volcker Rule's proprietary trading ban contained in statutory language they proposed is a \"modern Glass–Steagall\" because Glass–Steagall was both \"over-inclusive\" (in prohibiting some \"truly client-oriented activities that could be managed by developments in securities and banking law\") and \"under-inclusive\" in failing to cover derivatives trading.\n\nIn 2002, Arthur Wilmarth wrote that from 1990-1997 the nine U.S. banks with the greatest securities activities held more than 20% of their assets as trading assets. By 1997, 40% of J.P. Morgan's revenue was from trading. A 1995 study by the federal banking regulators of commercial bank trading activity from June 30, 1984, to June 30, 1994, concluded that \"trading activities are an increasingly important source of revenue for banks\" and that \"[n]otwithstanding the numerous press reports that focus on negative events, the major commercial banks have experienced long-term success in serving customers and generating revenues with these activities.\" In reporting the study results, the American Banker described \"proprietary trading\" as \"basically securities trading not connected to customer-related bank activities\" and summarized the study as finding that \"proprietary trading has been getting a bad rap.\"\n\nPaul Volcker supported the Volcker Rule prohibition on proprietary trading as part of bringing commercial banks back to \"concentrating on continuing customer interest.\" As described in the article Decline of the Glass–Steagall Act, Volcker had long testified to Congress in support of repealing Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32. In 2010 he explained that he understood Glass–Steagall as preventing banks from being principally engaged in underwriting and dealing in corporate securities. Volcker stated that with securitization and other developments he believes it is a proper bank function to underwrite corporate securities \"as serving a legitimate customer need.\" He, therefore, did not believe \"repeal of Glass–Steagall was terrible\" but that Congress \"should have thought about what they replace it with.\" Volcker's criticism was that Congress \"didn't replace it with other restrictions.\"\n\nSeparate from its proprietary trading ban, the Volcker Rule restricts bank and affiliate sponsorship and ownership of hedge funds and private equity funds. The GLBA amended the Bank Holding Company Act to permit \"merchant banking\" investments by bank affiliates subject to various restrictions. It also authorized the Treasury Department and Federal Reserve Board to permit such merchant banking activities by direct bank subsidiaries (\"financial subsidiaries\") after five years, but they have not provided such permission. This was not a Glass–Steagall change but a change to the Bank Holding Company Act, which previously limited the size of investments bank affiliates could make in a company engaged in activities not \"closely related to banking.\" Such merchant banking investments may be made through private equity funds. The Volcker Rule will affect the ability of bank affiliates to make such investments.\n\nBoth in the US and elsewhere, a number of reform proposals have been put forward that bear some resembalnce to Glass–Steagall.\n\nIn the UK, the Independent Commission on Banking's (ICB) proposal to \"ring fence\" retail and small business commercial banking from investment banking seeks to isolate the \"retail banking\" functions of a banking firm within a separate corporation that would not be affected by the failure of the overall firm so long as the \"ring fenced\" retail bank itself remained solvent. Bank of England Governor Mervyn King expressed concern the European Commission could block implementation of the ICB proposal as a violation of Commission standards. Although Michel Barnier, European Union internal market Commissioner, proposed limits on capital requirements for banks that could have hindered the UK ring fencing proposal and indicated support for the French and German position against breaking up banking groups, in November 2011 he announced an \"expert commission\" would \"study the mandatory separation of risky investment banking activities from traditional retail lenders.\" \n\nIn 2016 it was reported that Bank of England \"would press ahead with plans for banks to ringfence their retail operations by 2019\". \n\nOn October 2, 2012, the EU committee appointed to study the issue, through its Liikanen report, recommended a form of \"ring fencing\" similar to the proposal in the United Kingdom. In April 2013 the Bank for International Settlements has issued a working paper comparing the Volcker Rule, the ICB proposals, the Liikanen report proposals, and other international proposals for bank structural reform.\n\nCongressional and bank regulator efforts to \"repeal\", \"reform\" or apply Glass–Steagall were based on isolating a commercial banking firm's expanded securities activities in a separately capitalized bank affiliate. Much of the debate concerned whether such affiliates could be owned by a bank (as with \"operating subsidiaries\" in the 1990s) or would be bank holding company subsidiaries outside the chain of bank ownership. In either case, \"firewalls\" were intended to isolate the bank from the affiliate.\n\nBanking regulators and commentators debated whether \"firewalls\" could truly separate a bank from its affiliate in a crisis and often cited the early 1980s' statement by then Citicorp CEO Walter Wriston that \"it is inconceivable that any major bank would walk away from any subsidiary of its holding company.\" Alan Greenspan and Paul Volcker testified to Congress that firewalls so strong that they truly separated different businesses would eliminate the benefits of combining the two activities. Both testified that in a crisis the owners of the overall firm would inevitably find ways to use the assets of any solvent part of the firm to assist the troubled part. Thus, \"firewalls\" sufficient to prevent a bank from assisting its affiliate would eliminate the purpose of the combination, but \"workable\" firewalls would be insufficient to prevent such assistance. Both Volcker and Greenspan proposed that the solution was adequate supervision, including sufficient capital and other requirements.\n\nIn 1998 and 1999 Greenspan testified to Congress in opposition to the Clinton Administration proposal to permit national bank subsidiaries to engage in expanded securities and other activities. He argued such direct bank subsidiary activities would be \"financed by the sovereign credit of the United States\" through the \"federal safety net\" for banks, despite the Treasury Department's assurance that \"firewalls\" between the bank and its operating subsidiary would prevent the expansion of the \"federal safety net.\"\n\nAs described in commentator response to Section 20 and 32 repeal, Gary Stern, Arthur Wilmarth, and others questioned whether either operating subsidiaries or separate holding company affiliates could be isolated from an affiliated bank in a financial crisis and feared that the \"too big to fail\" doctrine gave competitive benefits to banking firms entering the securities or insurance business through either structure. Greenspan did not deny that the government might act to \"manage an orderly liquidation\" of a large financial \"intermediary\" in a crisis, but he suggested that only insured creditors would be fully repaid, that shareholders would be unprotected, and that uninsured creditors would receive less than full payment through a discount or \"haircut.\" Commentators pointed to the 1990 failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert as suggesting \"too-big-to-fail\" considerations need not force a government rescue of creditors to a failing investment bank or other nonbank, although Greenspan had pointed to that experience as questioning the ability of firewalls to isolate one part of a financial firm from the rest.\n\nAfter the late-2000s financial crisis commentators noted that the Federal Reserve Board used its power to grant exemptions from Federal Reserve Act Section 23A (part of the 1933 Banking Act and the \"principle statutory\" firewall between banks and their affiliates) to permit banks to \"rescue\" various affiliates or bank sponsored participants in the \"shadow banking system\" as part of a general effort to restore liquidity in financial markets. Section 23A generally prevented banks from funding securities purchases by their affiliates before the financial crisis (i.e., prevented the affiliates from \"using insured deposits to purchase risky investments\") by \"limiting the ability of depository institutions to transfer to affiliates the subsidy arising from the institutions' access to the federal safety net,\" but the Federal Reserve Board's exemptions allowed banks to transfer such investments from the shadow banking market to FDIC insured banks during the crisis. The Federal Reserve Board's General Counsel has defended these actions by arguing that all the Section 23A exemptions required that bank funding of affiliate or shadow banking investments be \"fully collateralized\" on a daily basis with qualifying collateral, so that the bank was \"very much protected,\" and that in the end the exemptions did not prove very \"useful.\"\n\nThe ICB proposes to erect a barrier between the \"ring-fenced bank\" and its \"wider corporate group\" that will permit banking regulators to isolate the ring-fenced bank \"from the rest of the group in a matter of days and continue the provision of its services without providing solvency support.\"\n\nLaurence Kotlikoff was disappointed the ICB did not adopt the \"limited purpose banking\" he proposed to the ICB. This would require a bank to operate like a mutual fund in repaying \"deposits\" based on the current market value of the bank's assets. Kotlikoff argues there will always be financial crises if banks lend deposits but are required to repay the full amount of those deposits \"on demand.\" Kotlikoff would only permit a bank (restructured as a mutual fund) to promise payment of deposits at \"par\" (i.e., $1 for every $1 deposited) if the bank (i.e., mutual fund) held 100% of all deposits in cash as a trustee.\n\nAs Kotlikoff notes, in 1987 Robert Litan proposed \"narrow banking.\" Litan suggested commercial banking firms be freed from Glass–Steagall limits (and other activity restrictions) so long as they isolated FDIC insured deposits in a \"narrow bank\" that was only permitted to invest those deposits in \"safe securities\" approved by the FDIC. In 1995 Arthur Wilmarth proposed applying Litan's \"narrow bank\" proposal to U.S. banks (\"global banks\") that had become heavily involved in \"capital markets\" activities through \"Section 20 affiliates,\" derivatives, and other activities. Under Wilmarth's proposal (which he repeated in 2001 after the GLBA became law) only banks that limited their activities to taking deposits and making commercial loans would be permitted to make commercial loans with FDIC insured deposits. Wilmarth expected only \"community banks\" specialized in making consumer and small business loans would continue to operate as such traditional banks. The large \"global banks\" would fund their lending through the capital markets just like investment banks and other \"shadow banking\" lenders.\n\nThe Litan and Wilmarth proposals were very different from the Kotlikoff limited purpose banking proposal in that they would only limit the activities of companies that owned FDIC insured banks. Whereas Kotlikoff would require a company to hold the full amount of its \"demand deposits\" in cash, Litan and Wilmarth would permit companies to issue such \"demand deposits\" without restriction, so long as the demand deposits were not FDIC insured. Congress considered this type of proposal when it debated the repeal of Glass-Steagall sections 20 and 32.\n\nIn 1997 the Clinton Administration proposed that \"wholesale financial institutions\" (known as \"woofies\") be authorized to be members of the Federal Reserve System but not \"banks\" under the Bank Holding Company Act because they would own non-FDIC insured banks that would only take deposits of $100,000 or more. Whereas \"narrow banks\" would be FDIC insured, but only invest in FDIC approved \"safe securities,\" \"woofies\" would be free to lend, purchase securities, and make other investments, because they would not hold any FDIC insured deposits. The proposal was intended to permit securities firms to continue to maintain ownership of commercial firms while gaining access to the Federal Reserve's \"payment system\" and \"discount window\", so long as the firm did not take FDIC insured deposits.\n\n\"Woofies\" were not authorized by the GLBA because of a dispute between Senator Phil Gramm and the Clinton Administration over the application of the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) to \"woofies.\" In their October 1999 compromise on CRA provisions in the GLBA, the Clinton Administration agreed with Gramm that CRA would not apply to woofies so long as only a company that did not then own any FDIC insured depository institution would be permitted to qualify as a \"wholesale financial institution.\" The Clinton Administration wanted this restriction to prevent existing bank holding companies from disposing of their FDIC insured banks to qualify as \"woofies,\" which could reduce the deposit base subject to CRA requirements. When Chase and J.P. Morgan lobbied to change the final legislation to permit them to become woofies, they complained only Goldman Sachs and \"a few others\" could qualify as a woofie. When negotiators decided they could not resolve the dispute, permission for woofies was eliminated from the final GLBA.\n\n\"Woofies\" were similar to the \"global bank\" structure suggested by Arthur Wilmarth because they would not use FDIC insured deposits to make commercial loans. They would, however, be subject to Federal Reserve supervision unlike lenders in the unsupervised \"shadow banking\" system. Because woofies would have had access to the Federal Reserve discount window and payments service, critics (including the Independent Bankers Association of America and Paul Volcker) opposed woofies (and a similar 1996 proposal by Representative James A. Leach) for providing unfair competition to banks. Although October 1999 press reports suggested bank holding companies were interested in becoming woofies, the New York Times reported in July 1999 that banking and securities firms had lost interest in becoming woofies.\n\nThe ICB Report rejected \"narrow banking\" in part because it would lead to more credit (and all credit during times of stress) being provided by a \"less regulated sector.\" In 1993 Jane D'Arista and Tom Schlesinger noted that the \"parallel banking system\" had grown because it did not incur the regulatory costs of commercial banks. They proposed to equalize the cost by establishing \"uniform regulation\" of banks and the lenders and investors in the parallel banking system. As with Kotlikoff's \"limited purpose banking\" proposal, only investment pools funded 100% from equity interests would remain unregulated as banks. Although D'Arista and Schlesinger acknowledged the regulation of banks and of the parallel banking system would end up only being \"comparable,\" their goal was to eliminate so far as possible the competitive advantages of the \"parallel\" or \"shadow\" banking market.\n\nMany commentators have argued that the failure to regulate the shadow banking market was a primary cause of the financial crisis. There is general agreement that the crisis emerged in the shadow banking markets not in the traditional banking market. As described in the article Decline of the Glass–Steagall Act, Helen Garten had identified the \"consumerization\" of banking regulation as producing \"a largely unregulated, sophisticated wholesale market,\" which created the risk of the \"underproduction of regulation\" of that market.\n\nLaurence Kotlikoff's \"limited purpose banking\" proposal rejects bank regulation (based on rules and supervision to ensure \"safety and soundness\") and replaces it with a prohibition on any company operating like a traditional \"bank.\" All limited liability financial companies (not only today's \"banks\") that receive money from the public for investment or \"lending\" and that issue promises to pay amounts in the future (whether as insurance companies, hedge funds, securities firms, or otherwise) could only issue obligations to repay amounts equal to the value of their assets. All \"depositors\" in or \"lenders\" to such companies would become \"investors\" (as in a mutual fund) with the right to receive the full return on the investments made by the companies (minus fees) and obligated to bear the full loss on those investments.\n\nThomas Hoenig rejects both \"limited purpose banking\" and the proposal to regulate shadow banking as part of the banking system. Hoenig argues it is not necessary to regulate \"shadow banking system\" lenders as banks if those lenders are prohibited from issuing liabilities that function like bank demand deposits. He suggests that requiring money market funds to redeem shares at the funds' fluctuating daily net asset values would prevent those funds from functioning like bank checking accounts and that eliminating special Bankruptcy Code treatment for repurchase agreements would delay repayment of those transactions in a bankruptcy and thereby end their treatment as \"cash equivalents\" when the \"repo\" was funding illiquid, long term securities. By limiting the ability of \"shadow banks\" to compete with traditional banks in creating \"money-like\" instruments, Hoenig hopes to better assure that the safety net is not ultimately called upon to \"bail them [i.e., shadow banks such as Bear Stearns and AIG during the financial crisis] out in a crisis.\" He proposes to deal with actual commercial banks by imposing \"Glass–Steagall-type boundaries\" so that banks \"that have access to the safety net should be restricted to certain core activities that the safety net was intended to protect—making loans and taking deposits—and related activities consistent with the presence of the safety net.\"\n\nAlthough the UK's ICB and the commentators presenting the proposals described above to modify banks or banking regulation address issues beyond the scope of the Glass–Steagall separation of commercial and investment banking, each specifically examines Glass–Steagall. The ICB stated Glass–Steagall had been \"undermined in part by the development of derivatives.\" The ICB also argued that the development before 1999 of \"the world's leading investment banks out of the US despite Glass–Steagall in place at the time\" should caution against assuming the \"activity restrictions\" it recommended in its \"ring fencing\" proposal would hinder UK investment banks from competing internationally.\n\nBoston University economist Laurence J. Kotlikoff suggests commercial banks only became involved with CDOs, SIVs, and other \"risky products\" after Glass–Steagall was \"repealed,\" but he rejects Glass–Steagall reinstatement (after suggesting Paul Volcker favors it) as a \"non-starter\" because it would give the \"nonbank/shadow bank/investment bank industry\" a \"competitive advantage\" without requiring it to pay for the \"implicit\" \"lender-of-last-resort\" protection it receives from the government. Robert Litan and Arthur Wilmarth presented their \"narrow bank\" proposals as a basis for eliminating Glass–Steagall (and other) restrictions on bank affiliates. Writing in 1993, Jane D'Artista and Tom Schlesinger noted that \"the ongoing integration of financial industry activities makes it increasingly difficult to separate banking and securities operations meaningfully\" but rejected Glass–Steagall repeal because \"the separation of banking and securities functions is a proven, least-cost method of preventing the problems of one financial sector from spilling over into the other\" (which they stated was \"most recently demonstrated in the October 1987 market crash.\")\n\nDuring the Senate debate of the bill that became the Dodd–Frank Act, Thomas Hoenig wrote Senators Maria Cantwell and John McCain (the co-sponsors of legislation to reinstate Glass–Steagall Sections 20 and 32) supporting a \"substantive debate\" on \"the unintended consequences of leaving investment banking commingled with commercial banking\" and reiterating that he had \"long supported\" reinstating \"Glass–Steagall-type laws\" to separate \"higher risk, often more leveraged, activities of investment banks\" from commercial banking. As described above in post 2010 efforts to enact Glass–Steagall inspired financial reform legislation Elizabeth Warren and other Senators have joined Cantwell and McCain in their effort to legislate Glass–Steagall inspired restrictions. Hoenig agreed with Paul Volcker, however, that \"financial market developments\" had caused underwriting corporate bonds (the prohibition of which Volcker described as the purpose of Glass–Steagall), and also underwriting of corporate equity, revenue bonds, and \"high quality asset-backed securities,\" to be \"natural extensions of commercial banking.\" Instead of reinstating Glass–Steagall prohibitions on such underwriting, Hoenig proposed restoring \"the principles underlying the separation of commercial and investment banking firms.\"\n\nIn Mainland Europe, some scholars have suggested Glass–Steagall should be a model for any in-depth reform of bank regulation: notably in France where SFAF and World Pensions Council (WPC) banking experts have argued that \"a new Glass–Steagall Act\" should be viewed within the broader context of separation of powers in European Union law.\n\nThis perspective has gained ground after the unraveling of the Libor scandal in July 2012, with mainstream opinion leaders such as the Financial Times editorialists calling for the adoption of an EU-wide \"Glass Steagall II\".\n\nOn July 25, 2012, former Citigroup Chairman and CEO Sandy Weill, considered one of the driving forces behind the considerable financial deregulation and \"mega-mergers\" of the 1990s, surprised financial analysts in Europe and North America by \"calling for splitting up the commercial banks from the investment banks. In effect, he says: bring back the Glass–Steagall Act of 1933 which led to half a century, free of financial crises.\" However, Weill reversed his position a year later, arguing that \"big banks don't have to be split if the 'right regulation' is in place,\" and instead that \"[banks] should decide on their own to 'split if they figure that's the best way that they can provide their services.'\"\n\n\nSee also the References list (citations) in the main article, Glass–Steagall–Act.\n"}
{"id": "20393014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20393014", "title": "HUD-1 Settlement Statement", "text": "HUD-1 Settlement Statement\n\nThe HUD-1 Settlement Statement was a standard form in use in the United States of America which was used to itemize services and fees charged to the borrower by the lender or broker when applying for a loan for the purpose of purchasing or refinancing real estate. HUD refers to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.\n\nThe borrower had the right to inspect the HUD-1 one day prior to day of settlement. The form would have been filled out by the settlement agent who would conduct the settlement.\n\nBeginning in 2010, the HUD-1 settlement statement also contained what was referred to as a Good Faith Estimate or GFE. This additional set of figures specified estimated settlement figures provided by the lender upon application of the loan.\n\nBorrowers could compare their Good Faith Estimate to the HUD-1 Settlement Statement and ask their lender or broker about any changes.\n\nAs part of new rules established by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau effective October 3, 2015, the HUD-1 Settlement Statement became obsolete. It has been replaced by a document called the Closing Disclosure that consolidates the HUD-1, Good Faith Estimate, and Truth in Lending Act disclosures.\n\n"}
{"id": "238594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238594", "title": "Heir presumptive", "text": "Heir presumptive\n\nAn heir presumptive or heiress presumptive is the person entitled to inherit a throne, peerage, or other hereditary honour, but whose position can be displaced by the birth of an heir apparent, male or female, or of a new heir presumptive with a better claim to the position in question. The position is however subject to law and/or conventions that may alter who is entitled to be heir presumptive.\n\nDepending on the rules of the monarchy the heir presumptive might be the daughter of a monarch (if males take priority over females and the monarch has no sons), or the senior member of a collateral line (if the monarch is childless); the birth of a legitimate child to the monarch will displace the former heir presumptive by a new heir apparent or heir presumptive. It is not assumed that the monarch and his or her consort are incapable of having further children; the day before Queen Elizabeth II ascended the throne, her father, George VI, was gravely ill and her mother was in her early 50s, but Elizabeth was still considered the heir presumptive rather than the heir apparent.\n\nHeir presumptive, like heir apparent, is not a title or position \"per se\". Rather, it is a general term for a person who holds a certain place in the order of succession. In some monarchies, the heir apparent bears, \"ipso facto\", a specific title and rank (e.g., Denmark, Netherlands, United Kingdom), this also sometimes being the case for noble titleholders (e.g., Spain, United Kingdom), but the heir presumptive does not bear that title. In other monarchies (e.g., Monaco, Spain) the heir to the throne bears a specific title (i.e., \"Hereditary Prince/Princess of Monaco\", \"Prince/Princess of Asturias\") by right, regardless of whether she or he is heir apparent or heir presumptive.\n\nAn heir can fail to inherit for other reasons than displacement, for example by death or incapacity of the heir, abolition of the title, or changes to the rules of inheritance.\n\nIn the English and Welsh common law of inheritance, there is no seniority between sisters; where there is no son to inherit, any number of daughters share equally. Therefore, certain hereditary titles can have multiple simultaneous heirs presumptive. Since the title cannot be held by two people simultaneously, two daughters (without a brother) who inherit in this way would do so as co-parceners and before they inherit, both would be heirs presumptive. In these circumstances, the title would in fact be held in abeyance until one person represents the claim of both, or the claim is renounced by one or the other for herself and her heirs, or the abeyance is ended by the Crown. There are special procedures for handling doubtful or disputed cases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2949045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2949045", "title": "History of criminal justice", "text": "History of criminal justice\n\nThroughout the history of criminal justice, evolving forms of punishment, added rights for offenders and victims, and policing reforms have reflected changing customs, political ideals, and economic conditions.\n\nPrimates often have notions of fairness and sharing, with violations punished by exclusion or banishment from social groups. In human history, prior to agriculture, more nomadic cultures had systems of punishment for behavior or resistance, including those developed by the Huns throughout Mongolia. With the development of agriculture, which led to more closely populated cities and cultures and behavior to address fears of persons taking advantage of or causing harm to others, more formal systems of punishment for crimes developed, independently around the world, or based upon other cultures, including those developed in the early Babylonian laws of Hammurabi and the Hammurabic Code.\n\nLaw enforcement in Ancient China was carried out by \"prefects.\" The notion of a \"prefect\" in China has existed for thousands of years. The prefecture system developed in both the Chu and Jin kingdoms of the Spring and Autumn period. In Jin, dozens of prefects were spread across the state, each having a limited authority and employment period.\n\nIn Ancient China, under the rule of Dang Lin Wang, a new judicial system emerged. This new system had prefects appointed by local magistrates, who in turn were appointed by the head of state, usually the emperor of the dynasty. The prefects oversaw the civil administration of their \"prefecture\", or jurisdiction.\n\nPrefects usually reported to the local magistrate, just as modern police report to judges. Under each prefect were \"subprefects\" who helped collectively with law enforcement of the area. Some prefects were responsible for handling investigations, much like modern police detectives.\n\nEventually the concept of the \"prefecture system\" would spread to other cultures such as Korea and Japan. Law enforcement in Ancient China was also relatively progressive, allowing for female prefects. Some examples of ancient Chinese prefects include: Chong Fu - prefect of the Ying District in the East Han Dynasty and Ching Chow - prefect of the modern Shang-tung Province. An example of a female prefect would be Lady Qu of Wuding (serving 1531-ca. 1557).\n\nFor the most part, crime was viewed as a private matter in Ancient Greece and Rome. Even with offenses as serious as murder, justice was the prerogative of the victim's family and private war or vendetta the means of protection against criminality. Publicly owned slaves were used by magistrates as police in Ancient Greece. In Athens, a group of 300 Scythian slaves was used to guard public meetings to keep order and for crowd control, and also assisted with dealing with criminals, manhandling prisoners, and making arrests. Other duties associated with modern policing, such as investigating crimes, were left to the citizens themselves. The Roman Empire had a reasonably effective law enforcement system until the decline of the empire, though there was never an actual police force in the city of Rome. When under the reign of Augustus the capital had grown to almost one million inhabitants, he created 14 wards, which were protected by seven squads of 1,000 men. If necessary, they might have called on the Praetorian Guard for assistance. Beginning in the 5th century, policing became a function of clan chiefs and heads of state. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages, crime and punishment were dealt with through blood feuds (or trial by ordeal) between the parties. Payment to the victim (or their family), known as wergild, was another common punishment, including for violent crimes. For those who could not afford to buy their way out of punishment, harsh penalties included various forms of corporal punishment. These included mutilation, whipping, branding, and flogging, as well as execution. Västgötalagen specifies exactly how much to pay, if anything, depending on who was slain. The primary form of state-administered punishment during ancient times and the Middle Ages was banishment or exile. Though a prison, Le Stinche, existed as early as the 14th century in Florence, incarceration was not widely used until the 19th century. Rather, it was used to detain prisoners before trial or for imprisoning people without judicial process.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon system of maintaining public order was a private system of tithings, since the Norman conquest led by a constable, which was based on a social obligation for the good conduct of the others; more common was that local lords and nobles were responsible to maintain order in their lands, and often appointed a constable, sometimes unpaid, to enforce the law.\n\nWhen early colonists first came to America, they did not include trained lawyers or other law-knowledgeable persons. Many parts of the criminal justice system in colonial America were similar to those in England, France, and the Dutch Republic. Gradually French and Dutch influences disappeared in the islands. What remained was the basic idea many had of the English common law system.\n\nThis system was the best-known to seventeenth-century colonists. The common law system included a set of rules that were used to solve problems in society. It was based on the history of decisions previous judges had made instead of lawmaking codes or laws. This system made a distinction between two basic types of crimes: felonies and misdemeanors. The legal process, mostly for more serious crimes, involved a grand jury, composed of members of the community, which decided whether there was enough evidence for prosecution. However, in these proceedings no district attorneys or public prosecutors were available. The victim of the crime was responsible for instigating the prosecution and financing it. It was these fundamental principles that stuck with the colonists and were used selectively to create a new and unique criminal justice system.\n\nMany factors influenced the colonists’ selection process by which they constructed their approach to criminal justice. As previously mentioned, there were no professional legal experts and few law resources available. This left a lot of room for creativity and mistakes. The colonists were largely left to their own devices concerning the details of their developing criminal justice system. The new environment the colonists encountered in the New World, especially the western frontier, also affected the way the law was shaped. The system was molded to fit the colonists’ needs as they settled further and further west. Vigilantism was an inevitable byproduct of the faults of the development of justice in America. Religion, especially early on in the colonial period, exerted a strong influence on law making. Legal codes, such as the 1648 Book of the General Lawes and Libertyes of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, contained very strong biblical references, more so than did the ones in England. Although this religious impact was felt most strongly in Puritan colonies, similar ideas were evident among other colonists as well. Many colonial makeshift criminal codes considered lying, idleness, drunkenness, certain sexual offenses, and even bad behavior to be crimes. These moralistic crimes stemmed from the relation of crime to sin and sin to crime. Adding to the religious factor, the colonists held individual liberty in high regard. This later influenced more contemporary criminal codes.\n\nBesides being one of the most important criminal justice officials of the colonial period in America, the county sheriff had other responsibilities. These included collecting taxes, running and supervising elections, and handling any other legal business in the community. With such a workload, sheriffs were usually the most important political figures in the county and represented the governor and the English government. In the criminal justice system of the period, the sheriff acted as a reactive official. His job was to follow up on complaints or information of misconduct from the other citizens. He was paid through a system of fees rather than a set salary which came mostly from tax collecting. This discouraged many sheriffs from concentrating heavily on law enforcement. Such high powers often led to corruption in this field with embezzlement and other irregularities with tax collections and fees.\n\n Judges are also known as magistrates or justices of the peace. Even though a judge held very influential positions in their counties, they were far from the professionals that they are today. They were usually religious or political leaders. The county judge was in charge of the court for the area he presided in and vehemently believed their role in society was to enforce God’s will. Their understanding of God’s will usually caused colonial justices to seek confessions and repentance from the accused rather than just punishment. The main goal was to bring order back to society. Most of the minor cases in the county only involved the judge while more serious crimes were heard by a court of several judges. The courts met only periodically, slowing down the sentencing of serious crimes.\n\nAlthough the colonial courts did closely mimic the proceedings of the courts of England, they were much simpler and more informal. They were also made available to everyone and used to relieve tensions and conflicts in the community. In addition to hearing the disputes of the local colonists, the courts also held the responsibilities of the legislature, executive, and judicial branches of the county’s government. These responsibilities illustrated the highly unspecialized nature of colonial government agencies. The courts became connected to an informal role in the county’s social and economic life.\nAlthough some county courts were presided over by one judge, some consisted of ten to fifteen judges. However, the courts with many judges met very infrequently and this made it almost impossible to conduct any legal business in a fast and efficient way. The matter was even worse in the back country where there often was a complete lack of courts to settle any conflicts or perform governmental services.\n\nThe legal process of trials in colonial America was quite different from the modern one in many ways. After an alleged crime was reported, a magistrate, or judge, would consider the presented evidence and decide whether it was a true crime. If the magistrate decided that a crime was indeed committed the accused was apprehended and sent to be questioned by the magistrate. The interrogation was usually held in the magistrate’s own house with a few marshals or deputies as witnesses. However, during this step in the procedure, no lawyers were involved on behalf of either party. After the hearing the accused was usually free to leave until the trial without bail.\n\nJust as in the interrogation, there was no defense attorney present at the trial and the proceedings moved quickly as each witness testified against the defendant. However, a district attorney, who was often appointed by the governor and assigned to a certain district or county, usually handled the prosecution. Unlike the prosecutors in England, who worked privately and for a payment from the victim, the district attorneys of colonial America handled the prosecution in almost all trials. The district attorney’s position soon became one of the most important political position in county government because they often had to be elected.\n\nThe role of the defense attorney was minuscule, if not unheard of, in the colonial period. This stemmed from an English legal tradition of severely restricting the role of the defense to challenging or question narrow points of the law. In time the American practice of trials allowed a greater and more vigorous role to the defense of the accused. However, at that current time there were few trained lawyers to begin with and most defendants could not afford one.\n\nJuries were also not used at that time and those who requested them were thought to be challenging the authority of the judge. Since the magistrate who had proclaimed the trial necessary was also the judge who presided over the trial, the verdict was quite often guilty. The main purpose of the trial was to give the defendant a chance to admit their guilt and repent. The theory behind the trial and punishment being very public was that they would serve to reinforce the rules of conduct and discourage others from acting out and breaking laws.\n\nThe colonists soon realized that a sheriff was not enough to keep their colonies safe and crime-free. Many villages and cities began adding other criminal justice agents to help maintain order. The rising populations were proving to be too much to handle for just one law enforcement agent in the county. The mayor was originally the chief law enforcement official, but he acted only in extreme circumstances. In addition to the sheriff, the mayor appointed a high constable and several lesser constables and marshals to help him. Those holding such positions had powers similar to those of the sheriff.\n\nTo protect their citizens during the night, many counties established a night watch, an institution of criminal justice originally inherited from Europe. The night watch consisted of a group of civilians who patrolled and kept watch over the city, making sure to look for fires, suspicious individuals, or possible riots. This was a collective responsibility, but few were willing to serve. Certain cities imposed fines on those who refused.\n\nThe night watch, though relatively effective, only served during the night. During the day, the responsibility of protecting innocent citizens and apprehending criminals fell to the constables and marshals. Soon a day watch was implemented in many areas. In extreme situations, such as riots, the colonial communities often had to call out the militia. Riots, a common disturbance in colonial America, occurred for many reasons including to contest elections, to protest economic conditions, or to enforce standards of morality. Even at the first sign of a riot the mayor or some other official would appear and literally read the riot act to the assembled crowd.\n\nDepending on the crimes that the colonists committed, there were plenty of punishments to choose from. Most of the punishments were public, where heavy use of shame and shaming was included. Through the method of shaming, the criminal justice system meant more to teach a lesson than simply punish the offender. The “criminal” was almost always male. However, punishment for such crimes as witchcraft, infanticide, and adultery fell heavily on the women. In addition, much of the blame and punishment for crimes was attributed to those in the lowest rank in society.\n\nWhipping was the most commonly used form of punishment, especially in the south with slaves. Other frequently used punishments included branding, cutting off ears, and placing people in the pillory. These punishments were sometimes harsher, depending on the crimes committed. In the American colonies, executions were less common than in England. However, when such a method was used, it was most often a public hanging. Usually capital offenses, such as murder or rape, or repeated serious offenses constituted a need for an execution.\n\nImprisonment was uncommon in colonial America since the budding colonies did not have people to spare to keep the community in order. Every person was valuable for their working ability, and losing even one worker to lawkeeping was neither reasonable nor an efficient use of resources. In addition, colonial communities rarely had enough extra money to build a prison and feed prisoners.\n\nSince probation was not yet known to the colonists, they used a system of nods to guarantee troublemakers would not cause any problems. Courts began to require many problem-causing people to put up money to make sure they would stay out of trouble. This system worked especially well in communities where everyone minded each other's business.\n\nIn the early colonial period, prisons were not yet a major staple in the criminal justice system. They were used mainly for holding people who were awaiting trial rather than punishment. The early jails resembled ordinary houses in many aspects and had no distinctive architectural features. Prisoners were placed in rooms instead of cells and were not classified or segregated in any way. Men, women, and juveniles were mixed together causing many problems.\n\nOvercrowding soon became a big concern, as well as poor sanitation. The jails turned into breeding houses of illness. Furthermore, the jails were even unable to fulfill their basic purpose of containing offenders within its walls. Escapes were very frequent. The prisons held not only those who were awaiting trial but also people who owed money, called debtors. These people were free during the day so they could work to pay off their debt but they returned to the jail at night. Other prisoners included the homeless, unemployed, or impoverished. They were expected to learn good work ethic during their stay.\n\nThe financial arrangements of the jailer were similar to those of the sheriff, especially since the same person usually held both jobs. He was paid by the county through a system of fees. Specific items such as food, clothing, and other things were submitted to the county commissioners for money. Just like other criminal justice positions with a lot of power, the jailer was often corrupt and was notoriously known for embezzling public funds, soliciting bribes from prisoners and their families, selling whiskey to the prisoners, and abusing the inmates.\n\nThe gradual development of a sophisticated criminal justice system in America found itself extremely small and unspecialized during colonial times. Many problems, including lack of a large law-enforcement establishment, separate juvenile-justice system, and prisons and institutions of probation and parole. Criminal matters were also not the top priority of the sheriff and the courts. The lack of a large institutional framework was a result of relatively small and homogenous colonial communities. These colonies were self-policing and social control was maintained by an omnipresent set of informal restrictions. They also depended on community pressure to regulate human conduct.\n\nIn Western culture, the contemporary concept of a police paid by the government was developed by French legal scholars and practitioners in the 17th century and early 18th century, notably with Nicolas Delamare's \"Traité de la Police\" (\"Treatise of the Police\", published between 1705 and 1738). The German \"Polizeiwissenschaft\" (Science of Police) was also an important theoretical formulation of police.\n\nThe first police force in the modern sense was created by the government of King Louis XIV in 1667 to police the city of Paris, then the largest city of Europe and considered the most dangerous European city. The royal edict, registered by the \"Parlement\" of Paris on March 15, 1667 created the office of \"lieutenant général de police\" (\"lieutenant general of police\"), who was to be the head of the new Paris police force, and defined police as the task of \"ensuring the peace and quiet of the public and of private individuals, purging the city of what may cause disturbances, procuring abundance, and having each and everyone live according to their station and their duties\". This office was held by Gabriel Nicolas de la Reynie, who had 44 \"commissaires de police\" (police commissioners) under his authority. In 1709, these commissioners were assisted by \"inspecteurs de police\" (police inspectors). The city of Paris was divided into 16 districts policed by the 44 \"commissaires de police\", each assigned to a particular district and assisted in their districts by clerks and a growing bureaucracy. The scheme of the Paris police force was extended to the rest of France by a royal edict of October 1699, resulting in the creation of lieutenants general of police in all large French cities or towns.\n\nHowever, this early conceptualization of police was quite different from today's police forces, exclusively in charge of maintaining order and arresting criminals. As conceptualized by the \"Polizeiwissenschaft\", the police had an economical and social duty (\"procuring abundance\"). It was in charge of demographics concerns and of empowering the population, which was considered by the mercantilist theory to be the main strength of the state. Thus, its functions largely overreached simple law enforcement activities, and included public health concerns, urban planning (which was important because of the miasma theory of disease; thus, cemeteries were moved out of town, etc.), surveillance of prices, etc.\n\nDevelopment of modern police was contemporary to the formation of the state, later defined by sociologist Max Weber as detaining \"the monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force\", primarily exercised by the police and the military.\n\nAfter the troubles of the French Revolution the Paris police force was reorganized by Napoléon I on February 17, 1800 as the Prefecture of Police, along with the reorganization of police forces in all French cities with more than 5,000 inhabitants. On March 12, 1829, a government decree created the first uniformed policemen in Paris and all French cities, known as \"sergents de ville\" (\"city sergeants\"), which the Paris Prefecture of Police's website claims were the first uniformed policemen in the world.\n\nIn London, there existed watchmen hired to guard the streets at night since 1663. Watchmen were the first paid law enforcement in the country, augmenting the force of unpaid constables, but were not professionally organized. The word \"police\" was borrowed from French into the English language in the 18th century, but for a long time it applied only to French and continental European police forces. The word, and the concept of police itself, was \"disliked as a symbol of foreign oppression\" (according to \"Britannica 1911\"). Prior to the 19th century, the only official use of the word \"police\" recorded in the United Kingdom was the appointment of Commissioners of Police for Scotland in 1714 and the creation of the Marine Police in 1798 (set up to protect merchandise at the Port of London).\n\nOn June 30, 1800, the authorities of Glasgow, Scotland successfully petitioned the Government to pass the Glasgow Police Act establishing the City of Glasgow Police. This was the first professional police service in the world that differed from previous law enforcement in that it was a preventive police force. This was quickly followed in other Scottish towns, which set up their own police forces by individual Acts of Parliament . On September 29, 1829, the Metropolitan Police Act was passed by Parliament, allowing Sir Robert Peel, the then home secretary, to found the London Metropolitan Police. Based on the Peelian principles, this was the cities first full-time, professional and centrally-organised police force. The Meteropolitain Police officers were often referred to as ´Bobbies´ after Sir Robert (Bobby) Peel. They are regarded as the first modern police force and became a model for the police forces in most countries, such as the United States, and most of the then British Empire (Commonwealth). Bobbies can still be found in many parts of the world (for example in British Overseas Territories or ex-colonies such as Bermuda, Gibraltar or St Helena). The model of policing in Britain had as its primary role the keeping of the Queen's Peace and this has continued to the present day. Many of the Commonwealth countries developed police forces using similar models, such as Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn North America, the Toronto Police was founded in Canada in 1834, one of the first municipal police departments on that continent, followed by police forces in Montreal and Quebec City both founded in 1838. In the United States, the first organized police service was established in Boston in 1838, New York in 1844, and Philadelphia in 1854.\n\nEarly on, police were not respected by the community, as corruption was rampant. In the late 19th and early 20th century, there were few specialized units in police departments.\n\nIn 1905, the Pennsylvania State Police became the first state police agency established in the United States, as recommended by Theodore Roosevelt's Anthracite Strike Commission and Governor Samuel Pennypacker.\n\nThe advent of the police car, two-way radio, and telephone in the early 20th century transformed policing into a reactive strategy that focused on responding to calls for service. In the 1920s, led by Berkeley, California police chief, August Vollmer, police began to professionalize, adopt new technologies, and place emphasis on training. With this transformation, police command and control became more centralized. O.W. Wilson, a student of Vollmer, helped reduce corruption and introduce professionalism in Wichita, Kansas, and later in the Chicago Police Department. Strategies employed by O.W. Wilson included rotating officers from community to community to reduce their vulnerability to corruption, establishing of a non-partisan police board to help govern the police force, a strict merit system for promotions within the department, and an aggressive, recruiting drive with higher police salaries to attract professionally qualified officers.\n\nDespite such reforms, police agencies were led by highly autocratic leaders, and there remained a lack of respect between police and the community. During the professionalism era of policing, law enforcement agencies concentrated on dealing with felonies and other serious crime, rather than focusing on crime prevention. Following urban unrest in the 1960s, police placed more emphasis on community relations, and enacted reforms such as increased diversity in hiring. The Kansas City Preventive Patrol study in the 1970s found the reactive approach to policing to be ineffective.\n\nIn the 1990s, many law enforcement agencies began to adopt community policing strategies, and others adopted problem-oriented policing. In the 1990s, CompStat was developed by the New York Police Department as an information-based system for tracking and mapping crime patterns and trends, and holding police accountable for dealing with crime problems. CompStat, and other forms of information-led policing, have since been replicated in police departments across the United States and around the world.\n\nUntil the late 19th century, law enforcement in the United States was a responsibility of local and state governments only. In 1870, with the passage of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Federal government in the U.S. began to take on some law enforcement responsibilities, and the Department of Justice was established in 1870, to carry out these duties. In 1872, control of federal prisons was transferred to the new department, from the Department of Interior. New facilities were built, including the penitentiary at Leavenworth in 1895, and a facility for women located in West Virginia, at Alderson was established in 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34386298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34386298", "title": "Immigration and Asylum Act 1999", "text": "Immigration and Asylum Act 1999\n\nThe Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (c 33) is an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom. It followed a 1998 government white paper entitled \"Fairer, Faster And Firmer – A Modern Approach To Immigration And Asylum\". Its main aim was to create a faster system to deal with a backlog of cases.\n"}
{"id": "29969498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29969498", "title": "In re Himmel", "text": "In re Himmel\n\nIn re Himmel, 125 Ill.2d 531, 533 N.E.2d 790 (Ill. 1988), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of Illinois that upheld the suspension of an attorney's license for failing to report misconduct by another attorney.\n\nHimmel, an attorney, agreed to represent the 18-year-old victim of a motorcycle accident to recover settlement money from her first attorney. The client had won a $23,000 settlement after the accident, but her first attorney had allegedly pocketed the money instead. The client asked Himmel not to report the first lawyer's misconduct to the Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission (IARDC) because she feared that it would hinder the recovery efforts. Over the course of 24 months, Himmel brokered an agreement where the first attorney promised to pay $75,000 if the client agreed not to prosecute.\n\nIn 1986, the IADRC charged Himmel with a violation of Rule 1-103(a) of the Illinois Code of Professional Responsibility for failing to report the first attorney's misconduct.\n\nThe court held that Himmel had a duty to report the misconduct of the first attorney under Rule 1-103(a), which requires lawyers with knowledge of misconduct by another lawyer to report it to the appropriate disciplinary authority. The court held that the client's communication about the first attorney's misconduct was not protected by the attorney–client privilege because she had discussed the matter in the presence of non-privileged third parties (her mother and fiance).\n\nThe court upheld the IADRC's decision to suspend Himmel's license for one year.\n\nIn the years preceding the decision, the Illinois and Chicago bars had been greatly criticized as a result of Operation Greylord, in which lawyers failed to report the misconduct of other attorneys. Months earlier, in a case cited in this decision, \"In re Anglin\", 122 Ill.2d 531, 525 N.E.2d 550 (May 18, 1988), the Illinois Supreme Court refused to reinstate the law license of an attorney convicted of (among other felonies) possessing stolen securities, and who wished to be reinstated while continuing to withhold the name of the person or persons from whom he received the stolen securities. These combined situations greatly increased the frequency of attorney misconduct reporting. In 1988, 154 attorneys were reported for misconduct in Illinois. In 1989, 922 attorneys were reported for misconduct\n\nOften cited discussion of the \"Himmel\" rule are by Richard W. Burke in 3 Geo.J.Legal Ethics 643 (1989-1990) and by Bruce Green in 39 William & Mary Law Review pp. 357-392 (vol.39, issue 2), although the case has been cited over 300 times, as well as at least mentioned in over 200 law reviews. At least one lawyer has criticized the \"Himmel\" rule as more effective at fostering distrust among lawyers than at rooting out misconduct. In 1991, California declined to follow the \"Himmel\" rule and adopted Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 6068(o), which requires an attorney to self-report misconduct but not the misconduct of other attorneys. The Rhode Island Supreme Court also distinguished the case in \"In re Ethics Advisory Panel Opinion No. 92-1\" The Chicago Bar Association most recently published a mention of the decision in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "30645218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30645218", "title": "Landis Report", "text": "Landis Report\n\nThe Landis Report was written by James M. Landis as a transition team analysis of the United States' administrative agencies for incoming President John F. Kennedy on December 21, 1960. \n\nA long-time friend of the Kennedy family, Landis served as a legal advisor to Joseph P. Kennedy and was President Kennedy's Special Counsel. At the time of the report, Landis was on the faculty of Harvard Law School. The report recommended greater clarity on the roles and authority of agency chairs. The Kennedy Administration adopted many of the report's recommendations.\n\nThe report reviewed the overall state of United States administrative law and the relationship between the independent agencies and the executive branch. Landis expressed a concern for the backlog in administrative law cases and the cost of participating in administrative hearings. The report expressed concerns about ethic of administrative proceedings, including extensive \"ex parte\" communications.\n\nA major recommendation of the Landis Report was the establishment of the Administrative Conference of the United States, which is a permanent agency to study Federal administrative procedures and develop recommendations for improvement. Similar recommendations were made during the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations. In addition, the Landis Report recommended that legislation be adopted to establish a permanent agency. Such legislation was adopted in 1964 after President Kennedy's death.\n\nMany federal administrative agencies have multiple members and operate as collegial bodies with one member designated as chairman. The report noted that before World War II, the main role of an agency chair was to preside at meetings, and agencies frequently rotated the chair duties among members annually. However, under post-World War II reorganization plans, the President was given the responsibility to designate the chair from among the agency's commissioners, and the chair was given the power to set the internal organization and policy direction of the agency. Landis noted that most chairs did not exercise this added authority, leaving the leadership of the agency to group decision making. Landis recommended that the reorganization plans for the Federal Power Commission and the Interstate Commerce Commission be amended to make the chair of each agency serve at the pleasure of the President. Landis also recommended that the plans for the administrative agencies clarify that the chair sets the budget, allocates funds and appoints the staff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3392363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3392363", "title": "List of treaties that confer jurisdiction on the International Court of Justice", "text": "List of treaties that confer jurisdiction on the International Court of Justice\n\nSome treaties that confer jurisdiction on the ICJ include :\n\n"}
{"id": "18478785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18478785", "title": "Mangalore tiles", "text": "Mangalore tiles\n\nMangalore tiles (also Mangalorean tiles) are a type of tile native to the city of Mangalore, India. Typically considered to be a part of Spanish and Italian architectural styles, the tiles were first introduced to India in 1860 by a German missionary. Since that time, the industry has flourished in India with these red tiles, prepared from hard laterite clay, in great demand throughout the country. They are exported to Myanmar, Sri Lanka, and the Far East and even as far as East Africa, the Middle East, Europe, and Australia. These were the only tiles recommended for government buildings in India under the British Raj.\n\nThese tiles still define Mangalore's skyline and characterize its urban setting. They are a popular form of roofing and are preferred over concrete due to their good quality.\n\nThese tiles are native to Mangalore, a city in the former South Canara district on the western coast of India. Hence they were named \"Mangalore tiles\" by the tile factory manufacturers.\n\nThe German missionary Plebot (Georg Plebst in reality) set up the first tile factory at Mangalore in 1860, after he found large deposits of clay by the banks of the Gurupura (also Phalguni) and Nethravathi (also Bantwal) rivers. It was called \"The CommonWealth Trust Ltd.\" or locally referred to as Basel Mission tile factory, and was the first ever tile factory in India, located on the banks of the Nethravathi river, near Morgan's Gate, around from Ullal bridge. Currently Mphasis, An HP company has been established in this area.\n\nSeveral other tile factories were established in the years that followed. In 1868, the Albuquerque tile factory producing these tiles was started by Mr.Pascal Albuquerque at Panemangalore in South Canara. These were the only tiles to be recommended for Government buildings in India during the British regime. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, a World Heritage Site is also topped with these tiles due to their excellent quality and were preferred over Bombay tiles by the structure's architect Frederick William Stevens.\n\nSince the opening of the Albuquerque tile factory, Mangaloreans have been actively involved in manufacturing these red Mangalore tiles. In 1878, it was followed by the Alvares tile factory established by Mr.Simon Alvares of Bombay at Mangalore. The tiles produced by the factory were in great demand throughout the Indian subcontinent and East Africa. Abundant deposits of clay, plenty of firewood from the Western Ghats and cheap skilled labour helped the industry flourish. By the 1900s there were around 25 tile factories situated in and around Mangalore. By 1994 around 75 tile factories were present in Mangalore. As per the years 1991—1992 out of a selected 12 tile factories, 6 were owned by Hindus and the other 6 by Christians. The factories along with these tiles also manufactured materials such as ridges, limestone and bricks.\n\nThe prominent tile factories in Mangalore of the bygone era were<br>\n1) The Common Wealth Trust Ltd (Established by Basel Mission in 1860 ) - This is supposed to be the first tile factory in Mangalore and thereby India.<br>\n2) A Albuquerque and Sons (Established in 1868).<br>\n3) Alvares Tile factory (Established by Simon Alvares in 1878)<br>\n4) Hammer Tiles (Established by Mahalakshmi traders in 1889).<br>\n5) Hamidiah Tile works (Established by Adhyaksha H. Coragappa(Founder of Kudroli Shree Gokarnanatheshwara Temple Mangalore ) and C.Abdurahiman in 1905)<br>\n6) King George Tiles (Established in 1905).<br>\n7) JH Morgan and son. <br>\n8) Rego and sons.<br>\n9) Pioneer Tiles.<br>\n10) BK Tiles.<br>\n\nThe Calicut Tile Co. (CTC) was the first fully mechanised roofing tile manufacturer in India. It was started in the year 1878. Besides roofing tiles, CTC also manufactures ceiling tiles, hourdees, hollow blocks, paver tiles, decorative garden tiles and terracotta products. The company is currently fully operational. The products CTC at Ferok are known and sold under the brand name QUEEN. They have another factory in the state of Karnataka. The products are known under the brand name KING. \n\nIn 2007, the industry suffered a loss with about 10 tile factories shutting down due to scarcity of raw materials like clay, and as factories struggled to find skilled and cooperative workers.\n\nThey provide excellent ventilation especially during summer and are aesthetically pleasing as well. Some of them are especially made to be used for roofing kitchens (for the smoke to escape) and bathrooms. Over a period of time, these tiles become dark to black from constant exposure to soot and smoke. Clay tiles offer natural insulation, thereby reducing the expense on electricity for heating or cooling as the case may be. \n\nSince these clay tiles are molded under extreme heat, they are resistant to damage or destruction from fire. \n\nThese red colored clay tiles, unique in shape and size, are quite famous and are exported to all the corners of world. They are unique and are made and available in different shapes and sizes depending on the users' need. Clay tiles are often white, yellow, orange or brown in color. However, they can be colored or styled according to one’s preference by spraying enamel over the tile once it has been colored before baking it in the kiln. \n\nThese tiles are not only eco-friendly but also cheap, durable and costs only one third of that of cement. Some of the buildings which are over 100 years old still have tile roofing. \n\nClay tiles are most apt for roofing solutions in coastal areas, and in regions that experience heavy rainfall. Clay tiles for a sloping roof offer excellent water proofing in regions where it rains quite often. It is corrosion resistant, and has superior longevity compared to other materials. The Mangalore tiles are generally placed inclined at forty five degrees. The tiles get their robust red colour due to the high proportion of iron compound found in the laterite clay. A tile weighs about to . These kinds of tiles are most popularly used in Canara, Goa, Kerala, and the Konkan.\n\nFirst, enough clay is collected, placed in a mold and is precisely cut to measurement. Then, the molded piece of clay with required length and thickness (or shape) is placed on another machine which puts the factory logo and shapes it into a tile.\nThen, any extra clay is removed by hand and sent or carried for firing and later glazing. It is heated in a kiln, and the density of the clay tile is determined by the length of time and temperature at which it is heated. \n\nClay tiles are often white, yellow, orange or brown in color. However, they can be colored or styled according to one’s preference by spraying enamel over the tile once it has been colored before baking it in the kiln. The extreme heat of the kiln permanently bonds the color and enamel to the tile, ensuring the color does not peel or fade away over time.\n\nIt was interesting, to say the least to see how both men and women worked cooperatively to produce the final product. Once fired and glazed, it is ready, and is stored for transport/shipping.\n\nTiles are exported to east Asia, Europe, Australia, Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nA different type of J H MORGAN roof tile found in Old Suriyani church at Chenganoor which is much older than the photos shown in the photo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2525959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525959", "title": "National Extremism Tactical Co-ordination Unit", "text": "National Extremism Tactical Co-ordination Unit\n\nThe National Extremism Tactical Co-ordination Unit (NETCU) was a British police organisation funded by, and reporting to, the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) that coordinates police action against groups in the United Kingdom it describes as extremist.\n\nAs of April 2007, it was headed by Superintendent Steve Pearl. Because the ACPO is not a public body but rather a private limited company, NETCU is exempt from freedom of information laws and other kinds of public accountability, even though they are funded by the Home Office and deploy police officers from regional forces. \n\n\"NETCU provides tactical advice and guidance on policing single-issue domestic extremism. The unit also supports companies and other organisations that are the targets of domestic extremism campaigns. NETCU reports through the National Coordinator for Domestic Extremism (NCDE) to the Association of Chief Police Officers Terrorism and Allied Matters - ACPO(TAM) committee.\"\n\nNETCU answers to the Association of Chief Police Officers' (ACPO) Terrorism and Allied Matters Committee, and in particular to ACPO's National Coordinator for Domestic Extremism, Detective Chief Superintendent Adrian Tudway. It works with the Home Office, and the National Public Order Intelligence Unit.\n\nThe unit was created in or around May 2004 to coordinate police action in relation to animal rights campaigns. It is based in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, which has been a focal point for animal rights activism as a result of the Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty campaign.\n\nApart from animal rights groups, it has also investigated the UK Life League, a direct action pro-life group that protests outside abortion clinics.\nIn November 2010 it was announced that the three ACPO units commanded by the National Coordinator for Domestic Extremism would be rebranded as the National Domestic Extremism Unit and brought under the control of the Metropolitan Police by Summer 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26709878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26709878", "title": "New START", "text": "New START\n\nNew START replaced the Treaty of Moscow (SORT), which was due to expire in December 2012. Its name is a follow-up to the START I treaty, which expired in December 2009, the proposed START II treaty, which never entered into force, and the START III treaty, for which negotiations were never concluded.\n\nUnder terms of the treaty, the number of strategic nuclear missile launchers will be reduced by half. A new inspection and verification regime will be established, replacing the SORT mechanism. It does not limit the number of operationally inactive stockpiled nuclear warheads that remain in the high thousands in both the Russian and American inventories.\n\nAccording to a \"Reuters\" report on February 9, 2017, in US President Donald Trump's first 60-minute telephone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Putin inquired about extending New START. President Trump attacked the treaty, claiming that it favored Russia and was \"one of several bad deals negotiated by the Obama administration\".\n\nUnder the terms of the treaty, the number of strategic nuclear missile launchers will be reduced by half. The treaty limits the number of deployed strategic nuclear warheads to 1,550, which is down nearly two-thirds from the original START treaty, as well as 10% lower than the deployed strategic warhead limit of the 2002 Moscow Treaty. The total number of deployed warheads, however, could exceed the 1,550 limit by a few hundred because per bomber only one warhead is counted regardless of how many it actually carries. It will also limit the number of deployed and non-deployed inter-continental ballistic missile (ICBM) launchers, submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) launchers, and heavy bombers equipped for nuclear armaments to 800. The number of deployed ICBMs, SLBMs, and heavy bombers equipped for nuclear armaments is limited to 700. The treaty allows for satellite and remote monitoring, as well as 18 on-site inspections per year to verify limits.\nThese obligations must be met within seven years from the date the treaty enters into force. The treaty will last ten years, with an option to renew it for up to five years upon agreement of both parties. The treaty entered into force on 5 February 2011, when the United States and Russia exchanged instruments of ratification, following approval by the U.S. Senate and the Federal Assembly of Russia. However, the United States began implementing the reductions even before the treaty was ratified.\n\nDocuments made available to the U.S. Senate described removal from service of at least 30 missile silos, 34 bombers and 56 submarine launch tubes, though missiles removed would not be destroyed and bombers could be converted to conventional use. While four of 24 launchers on each of the 14 ballistic missile nuclear submarines would be removed, none would be retired.\n\nThe treaty places no limits on tactical systems, such as the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II, which will most likely be replacing the F-15E and F-16 in the tactical nuclear delivery role.\n\nThe treaty does not cover rail-mobile ICBM launchers because neither party currently possesses such systems. ICBMs on such launchers would be covered under the generic launcher limits, but the inspection details for such systems would have to be worked out between the parties if such systems were reintroduced in the future.\n\nThe New START treaty is the successor to the START I. The START II was signed, but not ratified. The START III negotiating process was not successful.\n\nThe drafting of the treaty commenced in April 2009 immediately after the meeting between the presidents of the two countries, Barack Obama and Dmitry Medvedev, in London. Preliminary talks were already held in Rome on 27 April, although it was originally planned to have them held in the middle of May.\n\nProlonged talks were conducted by U.S. and Russian delegations, led on the American side by U.S. State Department Assistant Secretary Rose Gottemoeller. The Russian delegation was headed by Anatoly Antonov, director of security and disarmament at the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nTalks were held on:\n\nOn the morning of 6 July 2009, the agreement on the text of the \"Joint Understanding on Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms\" was announced, which was signed by Medvedev and Obama during the US Presidential visit to Moscow the same day. The document listed the intention of both parties to reduce the number of nuclear warheads to 1,500–1,675 units, as well as their delivery weapons to 500–1,100 units.\n\nPresidents Obama and Medvedev announced on 26 March 2010 that they had reached an agreement, and they signed the treaty on 8 April 2010 in Prague.\n\nOn 13 May, the agreement was submitted by U.S. President Barack Obama for ratification in the U.S. Senate. Ratification required 67 votes in favor (out of 100 Senators). On Tuesday, 16 September 2010 the Senate Foreign Relations Committee voted 14–4 in favor of ratifying New START. The measure had support from three Senate Republicans: Richard Lugar of Indiana, Bob Corker of Tennessee, and Johnny Isakson of Georgia. Senator John Kerry and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton expressed optimism that a deal on ratification was near.\n\nRepublicans in the Senate generally deferred to Jon Kyl (R-AZ), a leading conservative on defense issues, who sought a strong commitment to modernize U.S. nuclear forces, and questioned whether there was time for ratification during the lame duck session, calling for an opening of the negotiation record before a vote is held. Senator Ben Nelson (D-NE) joined Kyl in expressing skepticism over the timing of ratification, and Senator Kit Bond (R-MO) expressed opposition.\n\nObama made New START ratification a priority during the 2010 post-election lame duck session of Congress, and Senators John Kerry (D-MA) and Richard Lugar (R-IN), the Democratic Chairman and senior Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, were leading supporters of the treaty.\n\nOn 22 December 2010, the U.S. Senate gave its advice and consent to ratification of the treaty, by a vote of 71 to 26 on the resolution of ratification. Thirteen Republican senators, all 56 Democratic senators, and both Independent senators voted for the treaty. President Obama signed documents completing the U.S. ratification process on 2 February 2011.\n\nOn 28 May 2010, the document was introduced by Medvedev for consideration in the State Duma. On 6 July, the State Duma held parliamentary hearings on the treaty, which was attended by representatives from the Foreign Ministry and General Staff. On 8 July, the Duma Defense Committee and the International Affairs Committee recommended that the State Duma ratify the treaty.\n\nHowever, on 29 October, the chairman of the Duma International Affairs Committee, Konstantin Kosachev, called for the return of the document to committee hearings, noting that the agreement does not restrict the activities of the United States on missile defense, as well as the fact that ballistic missiles with non-nuclear warheads are not covered under the agreement. At the same time, Federation Council Chairman Sergei Mironov proposed not to rush to the amendment, or vote on the treaty, and to monitor the discussions in the U.S. Senate.\n\nFollowing ratification by the U.S. Senate, the formal first reading of the treaty was held on 24 December and the State Duma voted its approval. The State Duma approved a second reading of the treaty on 14 January 2011. 349 deputies out of 450 voted in favor of ratification.\n\nThe third and final reading by the State Duma took place on 25 January 2011 and the ratification resolution was approved by a vote of 350 deputies in favor, 96 against, and one abstention. It was then approved unanimously by the Federation Council on the next day.\n\nOn 28 January 2011, Medvedev signed the ratification resolution passed by the Federal Assembly, completing the Russian ratification process. The treaty went into force when Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton exchanged the instruments of ratification at the Security Conference in Munich, Germany, on 5 February 2011.\n\nThe New START Treaty requires a number of specific actions within periods after Entry into Force (EIF) (5 February 2011)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United States, a debate about whether to ratify the treaty took place during the lead-up to the 2010 midterm elections and in the lame-duck congressional session afterward. While one public opinion poll showed broad support for ratification, another showed general skepticism over nuclear arms reductions.\n\nThe Arms Control Association led efforts to rally political support, arguing that the treaty is needed to restore on-site verification and lend predictability to the U.S.-Russian strategic relationship. Other organizations supporting the treaty include the Federation of American Scientists, and disarmament expert Peter Wilk of Physicians for Social Responsibility called the New START treaty \"essential\" to ensuring a safer world and stronger diplomatic ties with Russia.\n\nRepublican supporters included former President George H. W. Bush and all six former Republican Secretaries of State, who wrote supportive op-eds in the \"Washington Post\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\". Conservative columnist Robert Kagan, who supported the treaty, says its goals are actually modest compared to previous START treaties and that the treaty should not fail because of partisan disagreements. Kagan said the Republican insistence on upgrading the U.S. nuclear arsenal was reasonable but would not be affected by the current language of the treaty.\n\nThe Heritage Action for America advocacy group, an affiliate of the Heritage Foundation, took the lead in opposing New START, lobbying the Senate along with running a petition drive and airing political advertisements before November's midterm elections. The effort drew the support of likely presidential candidate Mitt Romney, and has been credited by former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle as changing some Republican votes. According to Heritage Foundation President Ed Feulner, the language of the New START treaty would \"definitely\" reduce America's nuclear weapon capacity but \"wouldn't necessarily\" reduce Russia's, and Russia would maintain a 10–1 advantage in tactical nuclear weapons, which are not counted in the treaty.\n\nArms control experts critical of the treaty included Robert Joseph, former undersecretary of state for arms control and international security, and Eric Edelman, undersecretary of defense for policy, who have written that the treaty weakens U.S. defenses. Former CIA Director James Woolsey also said that \"concessions to Russian demands make it difficult to support Senate approval of the new treaty\".\n\nSenators Jon Kyl and Mitch McConnell complained about a lack of funding for the Next-Generation Bomber during the treaty debate even though this platform would not be constrained by this treaty.\nDuring the Senatorial debate over the US ratification of the New START Treaty with Russia, Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) stated that \"Russia cheats in every arms control treaty we have with them\", which caused an uproar in Russian media. Additionally, there were concerns about the possibility of restrictions being imposed on the deployment of missile defense systems by the U.S.\n\nThe Pentagon's \"Report on the Strategic Nuclear Forces of the Russian Federation Pursuant to Section 1240 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012\" found that even if Russia did cheat and achieved a total surprise attack with a breakout force, it would have \"little to no effect\" on U.S. nuclear retaliatory capabilities.\n\nCurrent information on the aggregate numbers and locations of nuclear weapons have been made public under the New START treaty, and on 13 May 2011 three former U.S. officials and two non-proliferation experts signed an open letter to both sides asking that the information be released, in order to promote transparency, reduce mistrust, and support the nuclear arms control process in other states.\n\nThe data that follows were made public under the prior START treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4279208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4279208", "title": "Peer-to-peer file sharing", "text": "Peer-to-peer file sharing\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing is the distribution and sharing of digital media using peer-to-peer (P2P) networking technology. P2P file sharing allows users to access media files such as books, music, movies, and games using a P2P software program that searches for other connected computers on a P2P network to locate the desired content. The nodes (peers) of such networks are end-user computers and distribution servers (not required).\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing technology has evolved through several design stages from the early networks like Napster, which popularized the technology, to the later models like the BitTorrent protocol. Microsoft uses it for Update distribution (Windows 10) and online playing games (e.g. the mmorpg Skyforge) use it as their content distribution network for downloading large amounts of data without incurring the dramatic costs for bandwidth inherent when providing just a single source.\n\nSeveral factors contributed to the widespread adoption and facilitation of peer-to-peer file sharing. These included increasing Internet bandwidth, the widespread digitization of physical media, and the increasing capabilities of residential personal computers. Users are able to transfer one or more files from one computer to another across the Internet through various file transfer systems and other file-sharing networks.\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing became popular in with the introduction of Napster, a file sharing application and a set of central servers that linked people who had files with those who requested files. The central index server indexed the users and their shared content. When someone searched for a file, the server searched all available copies of that file and presented them to the user. The files would be transferred directly between the two private computers. A limitation was that only music files could be shared. Because this process occurred on a central server, however, Napster was held liable for copyright infringement and shut down in July 2001. It later reopened as a pay service.\n\nAfter Napster was shut down, the most popular peer-to-peer services were Gnutella and Kazaa. These services also allowed users to download files other than music, such as movies and games.\n\nNapster and eDonkey2000, which both used a central server-based model, may be classified as the first generation of P2P systems. These systems relied on the operation of the respective central servers, and thus were susceptible to centralized shutdown. The second generation of P2P file sharing encompasses networks like Kazaa, Gnutella and Gnutella2, which are able to operate without any central servers, eliminated the central vulnerability by connecting users remotely to each other.\n\nThe third generation of filesharing networks are the so-called darknets, including networks like Freenet, which provide user anonymity in addition to the independence from central servers.\n\nThe BitTorrent protocol represents a special case. In principle, it is a filesharing protocol of the first generation, relying on central servers called \"trackers\" to coordinate users. However, it does not form a network in the traditional sense. Instead new, separate networks of coordinating users are created for every set of files, called a \"torrent\". Newer extensions of the protocol removes the need of centralized trackers, allow the usage of a decentralized server-independent network for source identification purposes, referred to as the Mainline DHT. This allows BitTorrent to encompass certain aspects of a filesharing network of the second generation as well. Users create an index file containing the metadata of the files they want to share, and upload the index files to websites where they are shared with others.\n\nPeer-to-peer file sharing is also efficient in terms of cost. The system administration overhead is smaller because the user is the provider and usually the provider is the administrator as well. Hence each network can be monitored by the users themselves. At the same time, large servers sometimes require more storage and this increases the cost since the storage has to be rented or bought exclusively for a server. However, usually peer-to-peer file sharing does not require a dedicated server.\n\nThere is still ongoing discussion about the economic impact of P2P file sharing. Norbert Michel, a policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, said that because of \"econometric and data issues, studies thus far have produced disparate estimates of file sharing's impact on album sales.\"\n\nIn the book \"The Wealth of Networks\", Yochai Benkler states that peer-to-peer file sharing is economically efficient and that the users pay the full transaction cost and marginal cost of such sharing even if it \"throws a monkey wrench into the particular way in which our society has chosen to pay musicians and re-cording executives. This trades off efficiency for longer-term incentive effects for the recording industry. However, it is efficient within the normal meaning of the term in economics in a way that it would not have been had Jack and Jane used subsidized computers or network connections\".\n\nAs peer-to-peer file sharing can be used to exchange files for which the distribution right was granted (e.g. public domain, Creative Commons, Copyleft licenses, online games, updates, ...).\n\nEspecially startups can save massive amounts of money compared with other means of content delivery networks.\n\nA calculation example:\n\nwith peer to peer file sharing: formula_1\n\nwith casual content delivery networks: formula_2\n\nThe economic effect of copyright infringement through peer-to-peer file sharing on music revenue has been controversial and difficult to determine. Unofficial studies found that file sharing had a negative impact on record sales. It has proven difficult to untangle the cause and effect relationships among a number of different trends, including an increase in legal online purchases of music; illegal file-sharing; drops in the prices of CDs; and the extinction of many independent music stores with a concomitant shift to sales by big-box retailers.\n\nAlso many independent artists choose a peer-to-peer file sharing method named BitTorrent Bundle for distribution.\n\nThe MPAA reported that American studios lost $2.373 billion to Internet piracy in 2005, representing approximately one third of the total cost of film piracy in the United States. The MPAA's estimate was doubted by commentators since it was based on the assumption that one download was equivalent to one lost sale, and downloaders might not purchase the movie if illegal downloading was not an option. Due to the private nature of the study, the figures could not be publicly checked for methodology or validity, and on January 22, 2008, as the MPAA was lobbying for a bill which would compel universities to crack down on piracy, it was admitted by MPAA that its figures on piracy in colleges had been inflated by up to 300%.\n\nA 2010 study, commissioned by the International Chamber of Commerce and conducted by independent Paris-based economics firm TERA, estimated that unlawful downloading of music, film and software cost Europe's creative industries several billion dollars in revenue each year. Furthermore, the TERA study entitled \"Building a Digital Economy: The Importance of Saving Jobs in the EU's Creative Industries\" predicted losses due to piracy reaching as much as 1.2 million jobs and €240 billion in retail revenue by 2015 if the trend continued. Researchers applied a substitution rate of ten percent to the volume of copyright infringements per year. This rate corresponded to the number of units potentially traded if unlawful file sharing were eliminated and did not occur. Piracy rates of one-quarter or more for popular software and operating systems have been common, even in countries and regions with strong intellectual property enforcement, such as the United States or the EU.\n\nIn 2004, an estimated 70 million people participated in online file sharing. According to a CBS News poll, nearly 70 percent of 18- to 29-year-olds thought file sharing was acceptable in some circumstances and 58 percent of all Americans who followed the file sharing issue considered it acceptable in at least some circumstances.\n\nIn January 2006, 32 million Americans over the age of 12 had downloaded at least one feature-length movie from the Internet, 80 percent of whom had done so exclusively over P2P. Of the population sampled, 60 percent felt that downloading copyrighted movies off the Internet did not constitute a very serious offense, however 78 percent believed taking a DVD from a store without paying for it constituted a very serious offense.\n\nIn July 2008, 20 percent of Europeans used file sharing networks to obtain music, while 10 percent used paid-for digital music services such as iTunes.\n\nIn February 2009, a Tiscali UK survey found that 75 percent of the English public polled were aware of what was legal and illegal in relation to file sharing, but there was a divide as to where they felt the legal burden should be placed: 49 percent of people believed P2P companies should be held responsible for illegal file sharing on their networks, 18 percent viewed individual file sharers as the culprits, while 18 percent either didn't know or chose not to answer.\n\nAccording to an earlier poll, 75 percent of young voters in Sweden (18-20) supported file sharing when presented with the statement: \"I think it is OK to download files from the Net, even if it is illegal.\" Of the respondents, 38 percent said they \"adamantly agreed\" while 39 percent said they \"partly agreed\". An academic study among American and European college students found that users of file-sharing technologies were relatively anti-copyright and that copyright enforcement created backlash, hardening pro-file sharing beliefs among users of these technologies.\n\nCommunities have a prominent role in many peer to peer networks and applications, such as BitTorrent, Gnutella and DC++. There are different elements that contribute to the formation, development and the stability of these communities, which include interests, user attributes, cost reduction, user motivation and the dimension of the community.\n\nPeer communities are formed on the basis of common interests. For Khambatti, Ryu and Dasgupta common interests can be labelled as attributes \"which are used to determine the peer communities in which a particular peer can participate\". There are two ways in which these attributes can be classified: explicit and implicit attributes.\n\nImplicit values means that peers provide information about themselves to a specific community, for example they may express their interest in a subject or their taste in music. With explicit values, users do not directly express information about themselves, albeit, it is still possible to find information about that specific user by uncovering his or her past queries and research carried out in a P2P network. \nKhambatti, Ryu and Dasgupta divide these interests further into three classes: personal, claimed and group attributes.\n\nA full set of attributes (common interests) of a specific peer is defined as personal attributes, and is a collection of information a peer has about him or herself. Peers may decide not to disclose information about themselves to maintain their privacy and online security. It is for this reason that the authors specify that \"a subset of...attributes is explicitly claimed public by a peer\", and they define such attributes as \"claimed attributes\". The third category of interests is group attributes, defined as \"location or affiliation oriented\" and are needed to form a...basis for communities\", an example being the \"domain name of an internet connection\" which acts as an online location and group identifier for certain users.\n\nCost reduction influences the sharing component of P2P communities. Users who share do so to attempt \"to reduce...costs\" as made clear by Cunningham, Alexander and Adilov. In their work Peer-to-peer file sharing communities, they explain that \"the act of sharing is costly since any download from a sharer implies that the sharer is sacrificing bandwidth\". As sharing represents the basis of P2P communities, such as Napster, and without it \"the network collapses\", users share despite its costs in order to attempt to lower their own costs, particularly those associated with searching, and with the congestion of internet servers.\n\nUser motivation and the size of the P2P community contribute to its sustainability and activity. In her work Motivating Participation in Peer to Peer Communities, Vassileva studies these two aspects through an experiment carried out in the University of Saskatchewan (Canada), where a P2P application (COMUTELLA) was created and distributed among students. In her view, motivation is \"a crucial factor\" in encouraging users to participate in an online P2P community, particularly because the \"lack of a critical mass of active users\" in the form of a community will not allow for a P2P sharing to function properly.\n\nUsefulness is a valued aspect by users when joining a P2P community. The specific P2P system must be perceived as \"useful\" by the user and must be able to fulfil his or her needs and pursue his or her interests. Consequently, the \"size of the community of users defines the level of usefulness\" and \"the value of the system determines the number of users\". This two way process is defined by Vassileva as a feedback loop, and has allowed for the birth of file-sharing systems like Napster and KaZaA. However, in her research Vassileva has also found that \"incentives are needed for the users in the beginning\", particularly for motivating and getting users into the habit of staying online. This can be done, for example, by providing the system with a wide amount of resources or by having an experienced user provide assistance to a less experienced one.\n\nUsers participating in P2P systems can be classified in different ways. According to Vassileva, users can be classified depending on their participation in the P2P system. There are five types of users to be found: users who create services, users who allow services, users who facilitate search, users who allow communication, users who are uncooperative and free ride.\n\nIn the first instance, the user creates new resources or services and offers them to the community. In the second, the user provides the community with disk space \"to store files for downloads\" or with \"computing resources\" to facilitate a service provided by another users. In the third, the user provides a list of relationships to help other users find specific files or services. In the fourth, the user participates actively in the \"protocol of the network\", contributing to keeping the network together. In the last situation, the user does not contribute to the network, downloads what he or she needs but goes immediately offline once the service is not needed anymore, thus free-riding on the network and community resources.\n\nCorporations continue to combat the use of the internet as a tool to illegally copy and share various files, especially that of copyrighted music. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) has been active in leading campaigns against infringers. Lawsuits have been launched against individuals as well as programs such as Napster in order to \"protect\" copyright owners. One of the most recent efforts of the RIAA has been to implant decoy users to monitor the use of copyrighted material from a firsthand perspective.\n\nIn early June 2002, Researcher Nathaniel Good at HP Labs demonstrated that user interface design issues could contribute to users inadvertently sharing personal and confidential information over P2P networks.\n\nIn 2003, Congressional hearings before the House Committee of Government Reform (\"Overexposed: The Threats to Privacy & Security on File Sharing Networks\") and the Senate Judiciary Committee (\"The Dark Side of a Bright Idea: Could Personal and National Security Risks Compromise the Potential of P2P File-Sharing Networks?\") were convened to address and discuss the issue of inadvertent sharing on peer-to-peer networks and its consequences to consumer and national security.\n\nResearchers have examined potential security risks including the release of personal information, bundled spyware, and viruses downloaded from the network. Some proprietary file sharing clients have been known to bundle malware, though open source programs typically have not. Some open source file sharing packages have even provided integrated anti-virus scanning.\n\nSince approximately 2004 the threat of identity theft had become more prevalent, and in July 2008 there was another inadvertent revealing of vast amounts of personal information through P2P sites. The \"names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers of about 2,000 of (an investment) firm's clients\" were exposed, \"including [those of] Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer.\" A drastic increase in inadvertent P2P file sharing of personal and sensitive information became evident in 2009 at the beginning of President Obama's administration when the blueprints to the helicopter Marine One were made available to the public through a breach in security via a P2P file sharing site. Access to this information has the potential of being detrimental to US security. Furthermore, shortly before this security breach, the \"Today\" show had reported that more than 150,000 tax returns, 25,800 student loan applications and 626,000 credit reports had been inadvertently made available through file sharing.\n\nThe United States government then attempted to make users more aware of the potential risks involved with P2P file sharing programs through legislation such as H.R. 1319, the Informed P2P User Act, in 2009. According to this act, it would be mandatory for individuals to be aware of the risks associated with peer-to-peer file sharing before purchasing software with informed consent of the user required prior to use of such programs. In addition, the act would allow users to block and remove P2P file sharing software from their computers at any time, with the Federal Trade Commission enforcing regulations. US-CERT also warns of the potential risks.\n\nNevertheless, in 2010, researchers discovered thousands of documents containing sensitive patient information on popular peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, including insurance details, personally identifying information, physician names and diagnosis codes on more than 28,000 individuals. Many of the documents contained sensitive patient communications, treatment data, medical diagnoses and psychiatric evaluations.\n\nThe act of file sharing is not illegal per se and peer-to-peer networks are also used for legitimate purposes. The legal issues in file sharing involve violating the laws of copyrighted material. Most discussions about the legality of file sharing are implied to be about solely copyright material. Many countries have fair use exceptions that permit limited use of copyrighted material without acquiring permission from the rights holders. Such documents include commentary, news reporting, research and scholarship. Copyright laws are territorial- they do not extend beyond the territory of a specific state unless that state is a party to an international agreement. Most countries today are parties to at least one such agreement.\n\nIn the area of privacy, recent court rulings seem to indicate that there can be no expectation of privacy in data exposed over peer-to-peer file-sharing networks. In a 39-page ruling released November 8, 2013, US District Court Judge Christina Reiss denied the motion to suppress evidence gathered by authorities without a search warrant through an automated peer-to-peer search tool.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46698", "title": "Property damage", "text": "Property damage\n\nProperty damage (or, in England and Wales criminal damage) is damage to or the destruction of public or private property, caused either by a person who is not its owner or by natural phenomena. Property damage caused by persons is generally categorized by its cause: neglect (including oversight and human error), and intentional damage. Intentional property damage is often, but not always, malicious. Property damage caused by natural phenomena may be legally attributed to a person if that person's neglect allowed for the damage to occur.\n\nIntentional property damage may be considered a form of violence, albeit one usually (but not always) less reprehensible than violence which does bodily harm other living beings. For example, allowing a pacemaker to fail or a well to become poisoned may qualify as both property damage and lead to bodily harm. On a similar note, certain forms of property damage may prevent bodily harm, such as breaking a piece of machinery that was about to injure a person. Some argue that property damage signals a willingness to do bodily harm or otherwise intimidates the free flow of communication in political or economic debates. Mohandas Gandhi was of this opinion.\n\nThe term vandalism is often used synonymously with intentional property damage, although that term is often associated with superficial or aesthetic damage, such as defacement. When property damage is undertaken for the purpose of intimidating a government or society at large, it may be categorized as terrorism. In certain contexts, the relations between these terms are inextricably politicized. For example, the Earth Liberation Front has claimed responsibility for a number of incidents of property damage, but claims to have never harmed a living being, and in fact has a doctrine forbidding members from doing so. However, the Federal Bureau of Investigation classifies them as a \"terrorist\" group ostensibly because they send a political and ideological message with this destruction. Meanwhile, the United States Department of Defense restricts the term \"terrorist\" to groups that do actual bodily harm.\n\nProperty damage tactics have been part of the labor movement, peace movement, ecology movement, environmental movement and anti-globalization movement, among others. The infrastructural capital of loggers, miners, fishers, suburban housing developers, the mass media, employers who are subject to strike actions, and even police forces have been targeted. The property so targeted, in most cases with the notable exception of labor actions, tends to be that which is deemed to be causing or threatening some form of damage to living beings. Typical examples include Greenpeace sabotage of bulldozers, peace movement activists entering NATO bases by breaking fences, and Earth Liberation Front destruction of empty new homes that they deem to be imposing on the Arizona desert ecoregion\n\n"}
{"id": "24647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24647", "title": "Property law", "text": "Property law\n\nProperty law is the area of law that governs the various forms of ownership and tenancy in real property (land as distinct from personal or movable possessions) and in personal property, within the common law legal system. In the civil law system, there is a division between movable and immovable property. Movable property roughly corresponds to personal property, while immovable property corresponds to real estate or real property, and the associated rights, and obligations thereon.\n\nThe concept, idea or philosophy of property underlies all property law. In some jurisdictions, historically all property was owned by the monarch and it devolved through feudal land tenure or other feudal systems of loyalty and fealty.\n\nThough the Napoleonic code was among the first government acts of modern times to introduce the notion of absolute ownership into statute, protection of personal property rights was present in medieval Islamic law and jurisprudence, and in more feudalist forms in the common law courts of medieval and early modern England as well\n\nThe word \"property\", in everyday usage, refers to an object (or objects) owned by a person — a car, a book, or a cellphone — and the relationship the person has to it. In law, the concept acquires a more nuanced rendering. Factors to consider include the nature of the object, the relationship between the person and the object, the relationship between a number of people in relation to the object, and how the object is regarded within the prevailing political system. Most broadly and concisely, property in the legal sense refers to the rights of people in or over certain objects or things.\n\nJames Wilson, U.S. Supreme Court Justice and professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania, in 1790 and 1791, undertook a survey of the philosophical grounds of American property law. He proceeds from two premises: “Every crime includes an injury: every injury includes a violation of a right.” (Lectures, III, ii.) The government’s role in protecting property depends upon an idea of right. Wilson traces the history of property in his essay \"On the History of Property.\" In his lecture, \"Of the natural rights of individuals\" (Lectures II, xii), he articulates related contemporary theory.\n\nThat theory was brought to a focus on the question of whether man exists for the sake of government, or government for the sake of man – a distinction which may derive from, or lead to, the question of natural and absolute rights, and whether property is one of them. While he doubts this is so, he nonetheless states: “In his unrelated state, man has a natural right to his property, to his character, to liberty, and to safety.” James Wilson asks whether “the primary and principal object in the institution of government… was… to acquire new rights by human establishment? Or was it, by a human establishment, to acquire a new security for the possession or the recovery of those rights….?” He indicates a preference for the latter.\n\nIn the opening sentence of \"On the History of Property,\" he states quite clearly: “Property is the right or lawful power, which a person has to a thing.” He then divides the right into three degrees: possession, the lowest; possession and use; and, possession, use, and disposition – the highest. Further, he states: “Man is intended for action. Useful and skillful industry is the soul of an active life. But industry should have her just reward. That reward is property, for of useful and active industry, property is the natural result.” From this simple reasoning he is able to present the conclusion that exclusive, as opposed to communal property, is to be preferred. Wilson does, however, give a survey of communal property arrangements in history, not only in colonial Virginia but also ancient Sparta.\n\nNon-legally recognized or documented property rights are known as informal property rights. These informal property rights are non-codified or documented, but recognized among local residents to varying degrees.\n\nDifferent parties may claim a competing interest in the same property by mistake or by fraud. For example, the party creating or transferring an interest may have a valid title, but may intentionally or negligently create several interests wholly or partially inconsistent with each other. A court resolves the dispute by adjudicating the priorities of the interests. The term \"transfer of property\" generally means an act by which a living person conveys property, in present or in future, to one or more other living persons, or to himself and one or more other living persons. To transfer property is to perform such an act.\n\nProperty rights are rights over things enforceable against all other persons. By contrast, contractual rights are rights enforceable against particular persons. Property rights may, however, arise from a contract; the two systems of rights overlap. In relation to the sale of land, for example, two sets of legal relationships exist alongside one another: the contractual right to sue for damages, and the property right exercisable over the land. More minor property rights may be created by contract, as in the case of easements, covenants, and equitable servitudes.\n\nA separate distinction is evident where the rights granted are insufficiently substantial to confer on the nonowner a definable interest or right in the thing. The clearest example of these rights is the license. In general, even if licenses are created by a binding contract, they do not give rise to property interests.\n\nProperty rights are also distinguished from personal rights. Practically all contemporary societies acknowledge this basic ontological and ethical distinction. In the past, groups lacking political power have often been disqualified from the benefits of property. In an extreme form, this has meant that people have become \"objects\" of property—legally \"things\" or chattels (see slavery.) More commonly, marginalized groups have been denied legal rights to own property. These include Jews in England and married women in Western societies until the late 19th century.\n\nThe dividing line between personal rights and property rights is not always easy to draw. For instance, is one's reputation property that can be commercially exploited by affording property rights to it? The question of the proprietary character of personal rights is particularly relevant in the case of rights over human tissue, organs and other body parts.\n\nThe rights of women to control their own body have been in some times and some places subordinated to other people's control over their fetus. For example, government intervention that controls the conditions of birthing by prohibiting or requiring caesarian sections. Whether and how a woman becomes pregnant or carries a pregnancy to term is also subject to laws mandating or forbidding abortion, or restricting access to birth control. A woman's right to control her body during pregnancy or possible pregnancy – what work she does, what food or substances she ingests, other activities she engages in – have also frequently been subject to restrictions by many other parties; in response, a number of countries have passed laws banning pregnancy discrimination. English judges have recently made the point that such women lack the right to exclusive control over their own bodies, formerly considered a fundamental common-law right. \n\nIn the United States, a \"quasi-property\" interest has been explicitly declared in the dead body. Also in the United States, it has been recognised that people have an alienable proprietary \"right of publicity\" over their \"persona\". The patent/patenting of biotechnological processes and products based on human genetic material may be characterised as creating property in human life.\n\nA particularly difficult question is whether people have rights to intellectual property developed by others from their body parts. In the pioneering case on this issue, the Supreme Court of California held in \"Moore v. Regents of the University of California\" (1990) that individuals do not have such a property right.\n\nProperty law is characterised by a great deal of historical continuity and technical terminology. The basic distinction in common law systems is between real property (land) and personal property (chattels).\n\nBefore the mid-19th century, the principles governing the transfer of real property and personal property on an intestacy were quite different. Though this dichotomy does not have the same significance anymore, the distinction is still fundamental because of the essential differences between the two categories. An obvious example is the fact that land is immovable, and thus the rules that govern its use must differ. A further reason for the distinction is that legislation is often drafted employing the traditional terminology.\n\nThe division of land and chattels has been criticised as being not satisfactory as a basis for categorising the principles of property law since it concentrates attention not on the proprietary interests themselves but on the objects of those interests. Moreover, in the case of fixtures, chattels which are affixed to or placed on land may become part of the land.\n\nReal property is generally sub-classified into:\n\nThe concept of possession developed from a legal system whose principal concern was to avoid civil disorder. The general principle is that a person in possession of land or goods, even as a wrongdoer, is entitled to take action against anyone interfering with the possession unless the person interfering is able to demonstrate a superior right to do so.\n\nIn England, the Torts (Interference with Goods) Act 1977 has significantly amended the law relating to wrongful interference with goods and abolished some longstanding remedies and doctrines.\n\nThe most common method of acquiring an interest in property is as the result of a consensual transaction with the previous owner, for example, a sale or a gift. Dispositions by will may also be regarded as consensual transactions, since the effect of a will is to provide for the distribution of the deceased person's property to nominated beneficiaries. A person may also obtain an interest in property under a trust established for his or her benefit by the owner of the property.\n\nIt is also possible for property to pass from one person to another independently of the consent of the property owner. For example, this occurs when a person dies intestate, goes bankrupt, or has the property taken in execution of a court judgment.\n\nDifferent parties may claim an interest in property by mistake or fraud, with the claims being inconsistent of each other. For example, the party creating or transferring an interest may have a valid title, but intentionally or negligently creates several interests wholly or partially inconsistent with each other. A court resolves the dispute by adjudicating the priorities of the interests. According to the Indian property law, it define the ‘Transfer of property’ means an act by which a living person conveys property, in present or in future, to one or more other living persons, or to himself and one or more other living persons; and \"to transfer property\" is to perform such act.\n\nIn this section \"living person includes a company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, but nothing herein contained shall affect any law for the time being in force relating to transfer of property to or by companies, associations or bodies of individuals.\n\nHistorically, leases served many purposes, and the regulation varied according to intended purposes and the economic conditions of the time. Leaseholds, for example, were mainly granted for agriculture until the late eighteenth century and early nineteenth century, when the growth of cities made the leasehold an important form of landholding in urban areas.\n\nThe modern law of landlord and tenant in common law jurisdictions retains the influence of the common law and, particularly, the \"laissez-faire\" philosophy that dominated the law of contract and the law of property in the 19th century. With the growth of consumerism, the law of consumer protection recognised that common law principles assuming equal bargaining power between parties may cause unfairness. Consequently, reformers have emphasised the need to assess residential tenancy laws in terms of protection they provide to tenants. Legislation to protect tenants is now common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395371", "title": "Screener (promotional)", "text": "Screener (promotional)\n\nA screener (SCR) is an advance screening of a film or television series sent to critics, awards voters, video stores (for their manager and employees), and other film industry professionals, including producers and distributors. Director John Boorman is credited with creating the first Oscar screeners to promote his film \"The Emerald Forest\" in 1985.\n\nScreeners help critics and awards voters see smaller movies that do not have the marketing advantage or distribution of major studio releases. Positive mentions can result in awards consideration. A screener often has no post-processing. Nowadays physical DVD copies still appear to be issued, but screeners are also distributed digitally to members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and the media/publicity sites of individual television networks for television shows. When screeners leak online, they are often tagged \"DVDSCR\", and often have an on-screen graphic watermarked with the receiver's email address. Another anti-piracy measure includes the encryption of DVD disks so that they will only play in machines given exclusively to voters.\n\nAccording to the \"Los Angeles Times\", Oscar screeners originated with the efforts of director John Boorman to promote his film \"The Emerald Forest\", a 1985 Powers Boothe vehicle about an American child kidnapped by a tribe in the Amazon Rainforest. The film had been lauded by critics, but due to the business troubles of its distributor, Embassy Pictures, received no advertising campaign. Boorman paid for VHS copies of the film to be made available to Academy members for no charge at certain Los Angeles video rental stores. Despite the novelty of his campaign, however, \"Emerald Forest\" received no Oscar nominations.\n\nIn 2003, the MPAA announced that they would be ceasing distribution of screeners to Academy members, citing fears of copyright infringement. A group of independent film makers sued and won a decision against the MPAA. The MPAA later reinstated the screeners with the implementation of a new policy requiring recipients to sign a binding contract that they would not share the screeners with others.\n\nIn January 2004, Academy member Carmine Caridi was announced as a \"person of interest\" in an ongoing FBI investigation into video piracy. He was subsequently expelled from the Academy, after he was found to have sent as many as 60 screeners a year for at least three years to a contact called Russell Sprague in Illinois. Caridi was later ordered to pay Warner Bros. for copyright infringement of two of their films, \"Mystic River\" and \"The Last Samurai\", a total of $300,000 ($150,000 per title).\n\nIn March 2016, TorrentFreak reported that original screener DVDs appear in dozens of eBay listings. According to eBay seller NoHo Trader, the sale of Emmy screener DVDs is lawful, although studios occasionally still take down Emmy DVD auctions and other lawful promotional materials. The Television Academy indicates the limited license governing the use of these screeners prohibits further distribution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5285432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5285432", "title": "Second lien loan", "text": "Second lien loan\n\nThe vast majority of all second lien loans are senior secured obligations of the borrower. Second lien loans differ from both unsecured debt and subordinated debt.\n\nIn the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation, the assets used by the company as security would first be provided to the first lien secured lenders as repayment of their borrowings. To the extent that the value of the assets is sufficient to satisfy the company's obligations to the first lien secured lenders, any additional proceeds from the sale of the pledged assets would then be made available to the second lien lenders as repayment of the second lien loan.\n\nWith almost no exceptions, a borrower will take a second lien loan either at the same time or after taking a traditional first lien secured loan and the secured lenders will place limitations on the borrower's ability to pledge its assets or borrow additional secured debt.\n\nThe specific rights of the first lien and second lien lenders are established in the credit agreements between the borrower and each class of lender as well as in an intercreditor agreement. An intercreditor agreement is a contract between multiple classes of lenders where each class of lender agrees to specific procedures and preferences in the event of a bankruptcy or liquidation. Secured lenders will routinely require an intercreditor agreement to protect their interests before allowing a borrower to obtain a second lien loan.\n\nUnlike unsecured debt, second lien loans receive a pledge of specific assets of the borrower (e.g., buildings, land, equipment, intellectual property, receivables and other financial assets).\n\nSubordinated debt refers to a class of obligations that are contractually subordinated in ranking to all of the senior obligations (i.e., general non-subordinated obligations) of the company, whether they are secured or unsecured. Although the second lien loan's security interest is subordinated to the first lien loan's interest in the pledged assets of the company, the ranking of first lien and second lien loans are the same in the event the pledged assets are not sufficient to satisfy the outstanding borrowings. In the event of a liquidation of a company, both the first lien and second lien loans would likely be repaid in full (along with trade and other general creditors) before the subordinated lenders receive any repayment of their obligations.\n\nSecond lien loans are used in leveraged buyouts to fill small gaps between the financing needs of the borrower and maximum thresholds (measured by various leverage metrics) of senior secured lenders. The arrangement fee and interest (finance) of a second lien loan are higher than those of the first lien secured loan of the same borrower because of increased risk for the lender that comes from a subordinated security interest. However, second lien debt can often reduce the overall cost of capital in a leveraged buyout transaction, replacing other more expensive forms of financing (e.g., senior unsecured debt).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1248623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1248623", "title": "Sejmik", "text": "Sejmik\n\nA sejmik (, diminutive of \"sejm\", occasionally translated as a \"dietine\"; ) was one of various local parliaments in the history of Poland. The first sejmiks were regional assemblies in the Kingdom of Poland (before 1572), though they gained significantly more influence in the later era of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth (18th century). Sejmiks arose around the late 14th and early 15th centuries and existed until the end of the Commonwealth in 1795, following the partitions of the Commonwealth. In a limited form, some sejmiks existed in partitioned Poland (1795–1918), and later in the Second Polish Republic (1918–1939). In modern Poland, since 1999, the term has revived with the \"voivodeship sejmiks\" (\"sejmiki województwa\"), referring to the elected councils of each of the 16 voivodeships.\n\nThe competencies of sejmiks varied over time, and there were also geographical differences. Often, numerous different types of sejmiks coexisted in the same governance structure. Almost always presided over by the marshal, sejmiks could often elect delegates to the national sejm, and sometimes would give such delegates binding instructions. Sejmiks attained the peak of their importance at the turn of the 18th century, when they effectively supplanted the inefficient national sejm.\n\nThe word sejm and sejmik are derived from old Czech \"sejmovat\", which means \"to bring together\" or \"to summon\".\n\nThe traditions of a sejmik can be traced to the institution of the wiec that actually predates the Polish state. They originated from gatherings of nobility, formed for military and consultative purposes. Historians disagree about the specific date of origin of the sejmiks, with some proposed dates being 1374 (the Privilege of Koszyce) and 1454 (the Nieszawa Statutes). Geographically, sejmiks first arose in central Poland (Greater Poland province). Over the next century or so, they spread to other provinces of Poland, and finally, by the 16th century, to the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. Sejmiks were legally recognized by the 1454 Nieszawa Statutes, in a privilege granted to the szlachta (Polish nobility) by King Casimir IV Jagiellon, when the king agreed to consult with the nobility concerning certain decisions. Casimir's recognition of the sejmik stemmed from an attempt to limit the growing power of the magnates, and counteract it with the middle nobility.\n\nWith the creation of a national Sejm in 1493, which took over the powers of taxation and the pospolite ruszenie previously granted to sejmiks at Nieszawa, the importance of regional governance somewhat diminished. Still, the sejmikis continued to play an important role in the governance of Poland as the most direct form of political enfranchisement of the nobility.\n\nAfter the Union of Lublin in 1569, the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth had about 70 sejmiks (out of those, 24 were in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania). Jacek Jędruch notes a trend of an increasing number of sejmiks over time, from about 16 in the 15th century to 104 by the late 18th century, as nobility sought to meet in places that required less travel time. Stanisław Płaza also estimates about 100 at the turn of the 18th century. Those sejmiks elected 170 deputies (48 from Lithuania). Most sejmiks elected 2 deputies, but there were exceptions. Wojciech Kriegseisen notes that until the late 18th century, there were 44 sejmiks in Poland proper (the Crown of the Kingdom of Poland), 24 in Lithuania, and 1 in Inflanty province.\n\nThe sejmik's role grew again in the late 17th century, as central power weakened. Sejmiks attained the peak of their importance at the turn of the 18th century, when they often set their own time limits—that is, they extended their authorized periods of operation. In the face of an inefficient central government, with the national Sejm often disrupted by the liberum veto and the office of starosta losing much of its importance, sejmiks administered a portion of the taxes, and raised their own military (\"wojsko powiatowe\"). This period, which was known as the \"rule of sejmiks\" (\"rządy sejmikowe\"), was brought to an end by acts of the one-day Silent Sejm (Polish: \"sejm niemy\") of 1717, which removed most taxation and military competences from the sejmiks. Some sejmiks were also affected by liberum veto until it was abolished for sejmiks in 1766; this was not always the case, as some decided to forgo unanimity and move to majority rule.\n\nWhere the middle nobility had been the leading force at the sejmiks in the 16th century, the magnates became increasingly influential in the 18th century. This stemmed from their ability to bribe masses of poorly educated, landless nobility (known as magnate's \"clients\" or \"clientele\"), as all nobles were eligible to vote in the sejmiks. Sejmiks in Lithuania were dominated by the magnates to a greater extent than those in Poland proper, as the Lithuanian magnates were more powerful than their Polish counterparts. The magnate-dominated sejmiks, which gathered impoverished nobility, have been described as more concerned with eating and drinking than debate; for the poorest of nobility, they were a rare occasion to participate in feasts sponsored by the magnates. When they met, the drunken nobility was known to fight among themselves, which on occasion led to fatalities.\n\nSejmiks were significantly reformed by the \"Prawo o sejmikach\", the act on regional sejms, passed on 24 March 1791 and subsequently recognized as part of the Constitution of 3 May. This law introduced major changes to the electoral ordinance, as it reduced the enfranchisement of the noble class. The voting right became tied to a property qualification; to be eligible to vote, a noble had to own or lease land and pay taxes, or be closely related to another who did. Some 300,000 out of 700,000 otherwise eligible nobles were thus disfranchised, much to their displeasure. A document from 1792 lists only 47 sejmiks.\n\nAlthough the independent existence of the Commonwealth ended with the partitions of Poland in 1795, the institution of the sejmik continued, albeit in a somewhat restricted fashion. In the Duchy of Warsaw, sejmiks elected deputies to the Sejm of the Duchy of Warsaw. Similarly, sejmiks of Congress Poland elected deputies to the Sejm of Congress Poland until its abolishment in 1831. Even in the Lithuanian territories incorporated into the Russian Empire, some judicial sejmiks were allowed to elect lower court judges; it was the only elective representative institution to survive in the Lithuanian territories after the partition. In the Prussian partition there were provincial sejmiks (Provinziallandtag) and powiat sejmiks (Kreistag). Near the turn of the century, some limited local representative institutions existed in the Russian partition and Austrian partition, but they did not bear the name of sejmiks.\n\nAfter Poland regained independence, provincial sejms were restored in the Second Polish Republic, although they were called sejms rather than sejmiks. They included the short-lived Sejm of Central Lithuania (1921–1922); the three voivodeship sejms (Silesian Parliament, Greater Poland Sejm, and Pomeranian Sejm, 1920–1939), which preserved the tradition of sejmiks in the former Prussian partition; and the county sejmiks, of which there were 264 in 1939. The existence of these institutions was interrupted by the occupation of Poland during the Second World War, and they were not reestablished in the era of communist Poland.\n\nThe sejmiks were revived again after the fall of communism in modern Poland. Since 1999, the term \"sejmik\" (in full, \"sejmik województwa\") has been used to refer to the elected council of each of the 16 voivodeships or regions (see voivodeship sejmik). The word \"sejmik\" was chosen by lawmakers in order to eliminate the term \"rada wojewódzka\" (voivodeship council), which conjured memories of voivodeship people's councils during the communist Poland era.\n\nSejmiks were usually held in a large, open field. The nobility would elect a presiding officer (\"marszałek sejmiku\": sejmik marshal), whose role was analogous to the marshal of the sejm at national Sejms. (This term has been revived since 1999, but it now refers to the chairman of the voivodeship executive board rather than the presiding officer of the sejmik itself.) While the sejmiks were originally convened by the king, soon a loophole was exploited: the sejmiks would limit the number of issues discussed, using that as a pretext to reconvene later at a time chosen by the marshal. Voivodes and starosts also had the ability to convene some sejmiks. Until the reforms of the Constitution of 3 May, all the nobility residing in the territory that was holding a sejmik were eligible to participate in the sejmik.\n\nIt is estimated that most sejmiks drew around 4 to 6% of eligible participants.\n\nHistorians distinguish several types of sejmiks, depending on their geographical scope:\n\nKriegseisen, quoting Adam Lityński, argues that there was only one type of sejmik and that the only difference between various sejmiks was the purpose for which they were convened. Nonetheless other scholars often distinguish between different types of sejmiks. Juliusz Bardach and Jędruch, for example, divide sejmiks based on their purpose as follows:\n\nKriegseisen notes that the institution of the sejmik gained a negative reputation following the partitions of Poland, and it has been described as one of the dysfunctional elements of the Polish political system that contributed to the fall of the Commonwealth. He cautions against such simplistic assessments, and traces them to 18th century publications whose negative views of the sejmiks have been rarely challenged since. The stereotype of a group of drunken, fighting nobility, found in some literature, should not be seen as representative, particularly outside the period of the sejmik's decline in the 18th century. He argues that while many sensationalist descriptions of debauchery, brawling or outright bloody violence at sejmiks have survived, they did so because they were just that—sensationalist—and should be seen as exceptions to the long, uneventful, but usually constructive proceedings that were much more common.\n\nKriegseisen also remarks that there is a myth about the uniqueness of sejmiks to Poland, and notes that similar institutions of self-governance and regional parliamentary participation by nobility can be found in other places, such as in Hungary and various German provinces (Silesia, Prussia, Brandenburg).\n\nThe following is a list of locations at which the provincial (or territorial) sejmiks were held.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49494198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49494198", "title": "Senegalese constitutional referendum, 2016", "text": "Senegalese constitutional referendum, 2016\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Senegal on 20 March 2016. The proposed changes to the constitution were approved by 62% of voters. A majority voted in favour in thirteen of the fourteen regions, with only Diourbel Region seeing a majority against.\n\nA total of 15 changes were proposed to the constitution, including:\n"}
{"id": "58866626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58866626", "title": "Seneschal of Normandy", "text": "Seneschal of Normandy\n\nThe Seneschal of Normandy was an officer carrying out and managing the domestic affairs of the lord of the Duchy of Normandy. During the course of the twelfth century, the seneschalship, also became an office of military command.\n\nThe seneschal managed the household, coordinating between the receivers of various landholdings and the chamber, treasury, and the chancellory or chapel. The seneschals of Normandy, like those appointed in Gascony, Poitou, and Anjou had custody of demesne fortresses, the regional treasuries, and presidency of the highest court of regional custom. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33198151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33198151", "title": "Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act, 1968", "text": "Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act, 1968\n\nThe Separate Representation of Voters Amendment Act, 1968 (Act No. 50 of 1968) was an act of the Parliament of South Africa enacted under the government of B. J. Vorster, which repealed the Separate Representation of Voters Act, 1951. This had the effect of removing the four members of the House of Assembly who were elected by Coloured voters in the Cape Province. Subsequently the House of Assembly would be elected solely by white voters.\n\nThe act was promulgated on 5 June 1968, but the repeal only took effect at the dissolution of the House of Assembly on 2 March 1970, before the general election of 22 April 1970. In the interim, the term of office of the four members was extended and the filling of any vacancy in their seats was prohibited.\n\nIn 1969 Coloured citizens were given the right to elect members to the Coloured Persons Representative Council, a quasi-legislative body with limited powers.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Constitution of 1983, which created the House of Representatives to represent Coloured citizens in Parliament.\n"}
{"id": "2002849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002849", "title": "Settlement offer", "text": "Settlement offer\n\nA settlement offer or offer to settle is a term used to describe an offer to resolve an outstanding issue or account. The term \"settlement offer\" may also refer to a statutory offer to compromise in a civil lawsuit. In either case, the term is used to describe a communication from one party to the other suggesting a settlement - an agreement to fully and finally resolve the outstanding issue, account or dispute.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, offers to settle are governed by Part 36 of the Civil Procedure Rules.\n\nOffers of settlement may be called \"Calderbank Offers\", \"Calderbank Letters\" and \"Offers of Compromise\".\n\nIn the US, evidence of settlement discussions generally, and of settlement offers specifically, is generally inadmissible in court. This is a policy-based exclusion, intended to encourage the settlement of cases out of court, thus freeing up the resources of the court system. In many jurisdictions, written agreement between the litigants may become binding agreements pursuant to the rules of procedure.\n\nIn Arizona, the Rules of Civil Procedure 80 governs binding settlement agreements in civil court and rule 69 of the Arizona Rules of Family Law Procedure governs binding agreements in family court.\n\nIn Connecticut an offer of compromise is governed by Connecticut General Statute 52-192a. An offer of compromise is a pleading that gets filed with a court to settle a case for a specific amount of money. If the opposing party accepts the offer the case is over. An offer of compromise can first be filed 180 days after the date of service in standard negligence cases and 365 days in medical malpractice cases. An offer of compromise can add a significant amount of money to a case. Interest runs at a rate of 8% over the offer amount and relate back to the date the lawsuit was filed.\n\nIn the US state of Florida the offer of a judgment and demand for judgment in negligence-based torts are governed by Title XLV (Torts) Chapter 768 (Negligence): 768.79  \"Offer of judgment and demand for judgment\". It is also governed by rule 1.442 of the Florida Rules for Civil Procedure \"Proposals for Settlement\". This process involves making an offer by either party and how the judgment amount affects whether legal fees and costs will be awarded.\n\nLike the United Kingdom, Australia may call settlement offers Calderbank offers, or offers of compromise, pursuant to rule 20.26 of the Uniform Civil Procedure Rules.\n\nA Calderbank offer can be made in writing or orally. Oral offers may create evidentiary issues such that less weight is given to the offer. An effective offer can be made before action. Calderbank Offers and Calderbank Letters often have a major impact on the allocation, by courts, of legal costs between parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "34686487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34686487", "title": "Slovenian Family Code referendum, 2012", "text": "Slovenian Family Code referendum, 2012\n\nA referendum was held in Slovenia on 25 March 2012 on the new family code passed by the then-governing coalition led by Borut Pahor. The code was rejected with 54.55% of voters against the law.\n\nThe family code bill passed by the government of Borut Pahor which expanded existing same-sex registered partnerships to have all rights of married couples, except adoption (excluding step-child adoption). The law also expanded provisions protecting the rights of children, such as outlawing corporal punishment and establishing a children's ombudsman. A conservative group \"Civil Initiative for the Family and the Rights of Children\", led by the activist and philosopher Aleš Primc (member of the conservative-centrist Slovenian People's Party), opposed to same-sex unions gathered the required signatures to force a referendum on the law.\n\nA February/March poll carried out by Delo found that 35.9% of the respondents would vote to uphold the law, while 26.3% said they would vote to repeal it and 20.9% were undecided. The remaining 16.9% of the respondents said they would not attend the referendum. The poll was conducted on 29 February and 1 March among 504 respondents.\n\nA Ninamedia poll for PlanetSiol.net carried out between 13 and 15 March 2012 found that 47.2% of the respondents would vote to uphold a law, while 40.4% said they would vote to repeal it and 12.4% were undecided. The poll was based on the responses of 700 people.\n\nAnother Delo poll conducted between 14 and 20 March among 709 respondents found that 46.9% of the respondents would vote to uphold a law, while 29.2% said they would vote to repeal it and 16.4% were undecided. The remaining 7.5% of the respondents didn't want to respond. Among those who said that they would definitely or probably attend the referendum, 60% said that they would vote to uphold a law while 40% said they would vote to repeal it.\n\nThe law was rejected by voters. Voter turnout was 30.1%.\n\n"}
{"id": "30715017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30715017", "title": "Sustainability standards and certification", "text": "Sustainability standards and certification\n\nSustainability standards and certifications are voluntary, usually third party-assessed, norms and standards relating to environmental, social, ethical and food safety issues, adopted by companies to demonstrate the performance of their organizations or products in specific areas. There are perhaps up to 500 such standards and the pace of introduction has increased in the last decade. The trend started in the late 1980s and 90s with the introduction of Ecolabels and standards for Organic food and other products. In recent years, numerous standards have been established and adopted in the food industry in particular. Most of them refer to the triple bottom line of environmental quality, social equity, and economic prosperity. A standard is normally developed by a broad range of stakeholders and experts in a particular sector and includes a set of practices or criteria for how a crop should be sustainable grown or a resource should be ethically harvested. This might cover, for instance, responsible fishing practices that don't endanger marine biodiversity, or respect for human rights and the payment of fair wages on a coffee or tea plantation. Normally sustainability standards are accompanied by a verification process - often referred to as \"certification\" - to evaluate that an enterprise complies with a standard, as well as a traceability process for certified products to be sold along the supply chain, often resulting in a consumer-facing label. Certification programmes also focus on capacity building and working with partners and other organisations to support smallholders or disadvantaged producers to make the social and environmental improvements needed to meet the standard.\n\nThe basic premise of sustainability standards is twofold. Firstly, they emerged in areas where national and global legislation was weak but where the consumer and NGO movements around the globe demanded action. For example, campaigns by Global Exchange and other NGOs against the purchase of goods from “sweatshop” factories by the likes of Nike, Inc., Levi Strauss & Co. and other leading brands led to the emergence of social welfare standards like the SA8000 and others. Secondly, leading brands selling to both consumers and to the B2B supply chain may wish to demonstrate the environmental or organic merits of their products, which has led to the emergence of hundreds of ecolabels, organic and other standards. A leading example of a consumer standard is the Fairtrade movement, administered by FLO International and exhibiting huge sales growth around the world for ethically sourced produce. An example of a B2B standard which has grown tremendously in the last few years is the Forest Stewardship Council’s standard (FSC) for forest products made from sustainable harvested trees.\n\nHowever, the line between consumer and B2B sustainability standards is becoming blurred, with leading trade buyers increasingly demanding Fairtrade certification, for example, and consumers increasingly recognizing the FSC mark. In recent years, the business-to-business focus of sustainability standards has risen as it has become clear that consumer demand alone cannot drive the transformation of major sectors and industries. In commodities such as palm oil, soy, farmed seafood, and sugar, certification initiatives are targeting the mainstream adoption of better practices and precompetitive industry collaboration. Major brands and retailers are also starting to make commitments to certification in their whole supply chain or product offering, rather than a single product line or ingredient .\n\nWith the growth of standards and certification as the major tool for global production and trade to become more sustainable and for the private sector to demonstrate sustainability leadership, it is essential that there are ways to assess the legitimacy and performance of different initiatives. Company and government buyers, as well as NGOs and civil society groups committed to sustainable production, need clarity on which standards and ecolabels are delivering \"real\" social, environmental and economic results. The ISEAL Alliance has emerged as the authority on good practice for sustainability standards and its Codes of Good Practice represent the most widely recognised guidance on how standards should be set up and implemented in order to be effective. By complying with these Codes and working with other certification initiatives, ISEAL members demonstrate their credibility and work towards improving their positive impacts.\n\nAttempts to address the problems caused by a multiplicity of certification initiatives led to the launch of The State of Sustainability Initiatives (SSI) project, facilitated by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the International Institute for Sustainable Development (IISD) under the auspices of the Sustainable Commodity Initiative (SCI).\n\n\"Most\" sustainability standards that are being adopted today were initiated by social movements in particular countries, such as Rainforest Alliance in the United States and Fairtrade in the Netherlands. Other standards were initiated by individual companies, such as Utz Certified (Ahold), Starbucks C.A.F.E. (Starbucks), and Nespresso AAA (Nespresso). Some standards were launched by coalitions of private firms, development agencies, NGOs, and other stakeholders. For example, the Common Code for the Coffee Community (4C) was initiated by an alliance of large American coffee roasters, including Kraft Foods, Sara Lee and Nestle, assisted by the German Agency for Technical Cooperation and Development (GIZ). One important facilitator for the development of most global standards were series of local development projects involving NGOs, coffee roasters and producers in different developing countries. For example, the Fairtrade standard was developed based on pilot projects with Mexican farmers. 4C builds on development projects in Peru, Colombia and Vietnam, involving GIZ, major coffee roasters, and local producers.\n\nThe most widely established and adopted standards are in agriculture, with 40% of global coffee production certified to one of the main schemes, and approximately 15-20% of cocoa and tea production being compliant with major international standards. Forestry and wild seafood are also sectors in which standards have been influential, with certified production pushing past 10% of the global share. Cotton, palm oil, soy, biofuels and farmed seafood are some of the commodities in which certification is growing the fastest, due in part to major roundtables that have been set up to bring the whole industry together. More recently, standards have started to emerge for mining and the extraction of metals - including gold, silver, aluminium, and oil and gas - as well as for cattle, electronics, plastics and tourism.\n\nEvidence suggests that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) adopted willingly by firms will be much more effective than government regulated CSR so global standards by private companies show promise for effective social impact.\n\nThe creation of the ISEAL Alliance in 2002 was the first collaborative effort amongst a group of sustainability standards organisations to agree to follow common good practices in how their standards are implemented and also to work together to drive up the use of standards and certification globally.\n\nNumerous sustainability standards have been developed in recent years to address issues of environmental quality, social equity, and economic prosperity of global production and trade practices. Despite similarities in major goals and certification procedures, there are some significant differences in terms of their historical development, target groups of adopters, geographical diffusion, and emphasis on environmental, social or economic issues.\n\nOne of the major differences to be aware of is based on the level of strictness of the standard. Some standards set the bar high for a sector, promoting the strongest social and environmental practices and working with the top performers to constantly push up sustainability expectations. Other standards are more focused on the elimination of the worst practices and operate at more of an entry-level to get a large proportion of an industry working incrementally towards better practices. Often times there are strategies between standards to move producers along this performance ladder of sustainability. Another important distinction is that some standards can be applied internationally (usually with mechanisms to ensure local relevance and appropriateness) whereas other standards are developed entirely with a regional or national focus.\n\nAdditional differences between standards might relate to the certification process and whether it is conducted by a first, second or third party; the traceability system in place and whether it allows for the segregation or mixing of certified and non-certified materials; and the types of sustainability claims that are made on products.\n\nThe Fairtrade label was developed in the late 1980s by a Dutch development agency in collaboration with Mexican farmers. The initiative performs development work and promotes its political vision of an alternative economy, seeing its main objective in empowering small producers and providing these with access to and improving their position on global markets. The \"most distinguishing\" feature of the Fairtrade label is the guarantee of a minimum price and a social premium that goes to the cooperative and not to the producers directly. Recently, Fairtrade also adopted environmental objectives as part of their certification system.\n\nThe Rainforest Alliance was created in the late 1980s from a social movement and is committed to conserving rainforests and their biodiversity. One key element of the standard is the compulsory elaboration and implementation of a detailed plan for the development of a sustainable farm management system to assist wildlife conservation. Another objective is to improve workers’ welfare by establishing and securing \"sustainable\" livelihoods. Producer prices may carry a premium. Yet instead of guaranteeing a fixed floor price, the standard seeks to improve the economic situation of producers through higher yields and enhanced cost efficiency.\n\nUTZ Certified (formerly Utz Kapeh) was co-founded by the Dutch coffee roaster Ahold Coffee Company in 1997. It aims to create an open and transparent marketplace for socially and environmentally responsible agricultural products. \"Instruments\" include the UTZ Traceability System and the UTZ Code of Conduct. The traceability system makes certified products traceable from producer to final buyer and has \"stringent\" chains of custody requirements. The UTZ Code of Conduct emphasizes both environmental practices (e.g. biodiversity conservation, waste handling and water use) and social benefits (e.g. access to medical care, access to sanitary facilities at work).\n\nThe Organic standard was developed in the 1970s and is based on IFOAM Basic Standards. IFOAM stands for International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements and is the leading global umbrella organization for the organic farming movement. The IFOAM Basic Standards provide a framework of minimum requirements, including the omission of agrochemicals such as pesticides and chemical-synthetic fertilizers. The use of animal feeds is also strictly regulated. Genetic engineering and the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are forbidden.\n\nThe trustea code is designed to evaluate the social, economic, agronomic and environmental performance of Indian tea estates, smallholders and Bought Leaf Factories (BLFs).\n\nIt is expected that the compliance with the code not only improves competitiveness of the tea farms but also facilitates the tea farms in achieving compliance with national regulations and international sustainability standards in a step-wise approach. The applicable control points under eleven chapters are required to be adhered to within a four-year period. The India tea code allows producers to show that they operate responsibly– producing quality tea according to strict social and environmental standards. The verification under the code provides manufacturers with the assurance of responsible production and provides opportunities to credibly demonstrate this to their customers.\n\nSuRe® is a global voluntary standard which integrates key criteria of resilience and sustainability into infrastructure development, through various criteria across governance, social and environmental factors. It is currently developed under ISEAL guidelines by the Swiss Global Infrastructure Basel Foundation (GIB) and the French bank Natixis. GIB and Natixis launched the SuRe® standard at a COP21 event on 9 December 2015.\n\nOther types of standards include sector-specific schemes such as the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO); standards for climate and development interventions like the Gold Standard, retailer-led sustainability certification initiatives such as GlobalGAP;\nCorporate own-brand sustainability initiatives such as Starbucks' CAFE Practices; and national programmes such as the Irish Food Board's 'Origin Green' scheme.\n\nThe United Nations Forum on Sustainability Standards (UNFSS) is a joint initiative of FAO, UNEP, ITC, UNCTAD, and UNIDO on Sustainability Standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6207664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6207664", "title": "Taxation of costs", "text": "Taxation of costs\n\nTaxation of costs is a ministerial function performed by a court upon the resolution of case. It involves entering the various costs and their amounts against the party (either the claimant or defendant) against whom those costs have been awarded by the court. The itemisation of costs or the subsequent determination of the costs that should be allowed is not a determination of the outcome of the litigation.\n\nThis is now known as detailed assessment in English law following the Civil Procedure Act 1997.\n\nIn early common law costs were unknown, but as early as 1278 an English statute was passed whereby costs could be awarded to the prevailing party (\"Brown v. Consolidated Fisheries Co.,\" 18 F.R.D. 433).\n\nSuch costs can include items such as witness fees, mileage and subsistence, marshal's fees, attorney's and other docket fees, and a reporter's charge for transcript. \n"}
{"id": "52659970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52659970", "title": "Truth and Dignity Commission (Tunisia)", "text": "Truth and Dignity Commission (Tunisia)\n\nThe Truth and Dignity Commission () (\"\") () is an independent tribunal established by law in Tunisia on 23 December 2013 and formally launched on 9 June 2014 by then-President Moncef Marzouki. Established following the Tunisian Revolution, its purpose is to use both judicial and non-judicial mechanisms to investigate gross human rights violations committed by the Tunisian State since 1955, and to provide compensation and rehabilitation to victims. The Commission was given a four-year mandate (i.e. to 2018) with the possibility of a one-year extension, but is expected to deliver its final report in May 2018. Its president is the human rights activist Sihem Bensedrine.\n\nThe Commission began gathering testimonies from victims of abuse under the old regime in September 2015, and continued to accept new cases until a cut-off date for registrations in June 2016, by which time it had received over 62,000 submissions and heard testimony from about 11,000 people. The Commission held its first public hearing in Tunis on 17 November 2016.\n\nThe Commission's members, as of late 2016, are Sihem Bensedrine (president), Ibtihel Abdellatif, Oula Ben Nejma, Mohammed Ben Salem, Ali Gherab, Khaled Krichi, Adel Maïzi, Hayet Ouertani and Slaheddine Rached.\n\nThe Commission has faced criticism on a number of grounds, including the slowness of its operations, the basis of its approach, and the fitness of its president, among others. As a result of ongoing concerns, there was a delay in the parliamentary vote to approve the Commissions's budget for 2017 although it was eventually agreed by 121 votes to 28 with 21 abstentions.\n\n"}
{"id": "218856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218856", "title": "United States trademark law", "text": "United States trademark law\n\nA trademark is a word, phrase, or logo that identifies the source of goods or services. Trademark law protects a business' commercial identity or brand by discouraging other businesses from adopting a name or logo that is \"confusingly similar\" to an existing trademark. The goal is to allow consumers to easily identify the producers of goods and services and avoid confusion.\n\nUnited States trademark law is mainly governed by the Lanham Act. Common law trademark rights are acquired automatically when a business uses a name or logo in commerce, and are enforceable in state courts. Marks registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office are given a higher degree of protection in federal courts than unregistered marks—both registered and unregistered trademarks are granted some degree of federal protection under the Lanham Act 43(a).\n\nUnited States law has protected trademarks under state common law since colonial times, but it was not until 1870 that Congress first attempted to establish a federal trademark regime. This 1870 statute was purported to be an exercise of Congress' Copyright Clause powers, however, the Supreme Court struck down the 1870 statute in the \"Trade-Mark Cases.\" In 1881, Congress passed a new trademark act, this time pursuant to its Commerce Clause powers. Congress revised the Trademark Act in 1905.\n\nIn 1946, Congress passed the Lanham Act (). The Lanham Act defines federal trademark protection and trademark registration rules. The Lanham Act grants the United States Patent and Trademark Office (\"USPTO\") administrative authority over trademark registration.\n\nState law continues to add its own protection, complementing (and complicating) the federal trademark system.\n\nRecent developments in U.S. trademark law have included the adoption of the Federal Trademark Dilution Act of 1995 (see Trademark dilution), the 1999 Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act, and the Trademark Dilution Revision Act of 2006 (see Trademark dilution).\n\nTrademark law protects a company's goodwill, and helps consumers easily identify the source of the things they purchase. \nIn principle, trademark law, by preventing others from copying a source-identifying mark, reduces the customer's costs of shopping and making purchasing decisions, for it quickly and easily assures a potential customer that this item—the item with this mark—is made by the same producer as other similarly marked items that he or she liked (or disliked) in the past. At the same time, the law helps assure a producer that it (and not an imitating competitor) will reap the financial, reputation-related rewards associated with a desirable product. The law thereby encourages the production of quality products and simultaneously discourages those who hope to sell inferior products by capitalizing on a consumer's inability quickly to evaluate the quality of an item offered for sale. [internal punctuation omitted]\n\nU.S. Trademark rights come in two types: common law and federal registration.\n\n™ – Signifies common law trademark rights. Businesses automatically receive common law trademark rights by using a brand name or logo in the normal course of commerce.\n\n® – Signifies a registered trademark. The ® symbol may only be used on a trademark that has been examined, approved and \"registered\" with the USPTO.\n\nTrademark rights are acquired through use of a mark in the normal course of commerce. For example, by using a brand name or logo on a product or its retail packaging.\n\nA word, phrase, or logo can act as a trademark. But so can a slogan, a name, a scent, the shape of a product's container, and a series of musical notes.\nThe language of the Lanham Act describes that universe [of things that can qualify as a trademark] in the broadest of terms. It says that trademarks \"includ[e] any word, name, symbol, or device, or any combination thereof.\" § 1127. Since human beings might use as a \"symbol\" or \"device\" almost anything at all that is capable of carrying meaning, this language, read literally, is not restrictive. The courts and the Patent and Trademark Office have authorized for use as a mark a particular shape (of a Coca-Cola bottle), a particular sound (of NBC's three chimes), and even a particular scent (of plumeria blossoms on sewing thread).\n\nSome trademarks afford more potent rights than others. The closer the relationship between the mark and the goods, the weaker the mark. Trademarks are often separated into 4 categories of distinctiveness: \n\nWhere there is no logical relationship between the mark and the goods or services, trademark protection is at its strongest. Arbitrary and fanciful marks are considered inherently distinctive and are prima facia registrable. For example, \"coined words\" – such as Kodak, Polaroid, or Starbucks – are considered fanciful and receive strong trademark protection. Arbitrary marks include preexisting words used in an arbitrary way, such as \"Apple\" when used for computers.\n\nSuggestive trademarks are still broadly protected. These marks \"suggest\" something about the product or services they are used on. The suggestion is a subtle connotation, not an outright description of the product. An example is \"Whirlpool\" for washing machines.\n\nDescriptive terms immediately describe the goods, or some important characteristic of the goods. Trademark law does not protect descriptive terms unless achieve \"secondary meaning\" in the minds of consumers. That is, trademark rights accrue when the public comes to associate the descriptive term with a \"particular company\" rather than the \"product in general\".\n\nThe generic term for a product or service cannot be trademarked. Granting trademark rights on a generic term-say \"apple\" for use on apple juice-puts other companies at an unfair competitive disadvantage. Every company has the right to describe its products and services using generic terms.\n\nOnce acquired, trademark rights may be registered with the USPTO. \"The Lanham Act gives a seller or producer the exclusive right to \"register\" a trademark, 15 U.S.C. § 1052, and to prevent his or her competitors from using that trademark, § 1114(1).\"\n\nTrademark protection depends on use in commerce, not registration. Both registered and non-registered trademarks are both eligible for protection under the Lanham Act. However, registration (on the \"Principal Register\") affords several advantages: \n\nTrademarks may be registered online. The USPTO charges a $275 fee for online trademark applications. The process takes about 6 months from initial application to final registration. It is a general practice to hire a trademark lawyer to file the application on behalf of the future owner.\n\nOnce the application is filed, it sits in a queue for a few months. Eventually, a USPTO Trademark Examiner will examine the application according to the rules of the Trademark Manual of Examining Procedure. If the Trademark Examiner identifies problems with the applications, the applicant will be sent a \"preliminary rejection.\" The applicant will then have 6 months to file a reply with arguments in favor of her trademark application. If the Trademark Examiner is persuaded by the reply arguments, the application will be granted registration. If not, a \"final rejection\" will be issued.\n\nWhen an application is allowed, it moves on to \"publication\" in the \"Trademark Official Gazette\". Once published, there is a 30-day opportunity for other companies to appeal the registration. If no appeal is filed, the registration is finally issued.\n\nIf the registration receives a final rejection from the Trademark Examiner, the applicant may appeal the rejection to the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board. Likewise, if the application is opposed by a third party, the appeal will be reviewed by the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board.\n\nAn application for registration may be based upon \"actual use\" in commerce (a §1(a) registration) or upon a \"bona fide\" intent to use (\"ITU\") the mark in commerce (§1(b) registration). An ITU application is a placeholder. It will not be allowed to register until the applicant actually begins using the mark in interstate commerce. The value of ITU is in establishing \"priority\"—that is, determining which business first acquired the trademark rights.\n\nThe benefits of federal trademark registration only accrue to marks listed on the \"Primary Register\". To be eligible for the Principal Register, a mark must be recognized as a trademark, and not just a description of some goods or services. Eligible marks include (a) arbitrary or fanciful marks, (b) \"suggestive\" marks, and (c) descriptive marks that have achieved \"secondary meaning\" or \"distinctiveness.\"\n\nThe Supplemental Register is for \"descriptive\" marks that have not yet become distinctive. Descriptive marks describe some quality of the goods or services they are used with. Descriptive marks may become distinctive (acquire \"secondary meaning\") through 5 years of use in commerce, or through evidence of heavy advertising and market recognition.\n\nSecondary meaning is acquired when in the minds of the public, the primary significance of a product feature... is to identify the source of the product rather than the product itself.\n\nNote that \"generic\" terms are ineligible for trademark protection altogether, and may not be registered on either the Primary or Supplemental Registers.\n\nTrademarks may also be registered at the state level. State registrations are less potent than federal trademark registration. But federal registration requires use of the mark in interstate commerce. If a mark is only used in one particular state, registration at the state level may be appropriate. State trademark registration is usually by filing an application with the Secretary of State of the relevant state.\n\nTrademark infringement is measured by the so-called \"likelihood of confusion\" test. A new trademark will infringe on an existing one if the new one is so similar to the original that consumers are likely to confuse the two marks, and mistakenly purchase from the wrong company.\n\nThe likelihood of confusion test turns on several factors, including:\n\n\nThis multi-factor test was articulated by Judge Henry Friendly in \"Polaroid v. Polarad\". and are often referred to as the \"Polaroid Factors\".\n\nNote that other factors may also be considered in determining whether a likelihood of confusion exists. \"Even this extensive catalogue does not exhaust the possibilities—the court may have to take still other variables into account.\"\n\nConsistent with the limited nature of trademark protection and the free speech guarantees of the First Amendment, U.S. law provides for a fair use defense to trademark infringement. Fair use in trademark law does not employ the same four-pronged analysis used in copyright law. The law recognizes two fair use defenses: classic fair use, where the alleged infringer is using the mark to describe accurately an aspect of its products; and nominative fair use, in which the trademark is being used to actually refer to the trademarked product or trademark owner.\n\nThese uses are still subject to the requirement that there be no consumer confusion as to source or sponsorship. Trademarks may also be lawfully used in parodies, since in that case there is usually no likelihood of confusion.\n\nIn contrast to copyright or patent law, trademark protection does not have a set duration or definite expiration date. Trademark rights only expire when the owner stops using the mark in commerce. However, federal trademark registrations expire ten years after the registration date, unless renewed within one year prior to the expiration.\n\nThe U.S. Constitution specifically grants Congress power over copyright and patent law, but not over trademark law. Instead, Congress' power to create federal trademark law is derived from the Commerce Clause. Therefore, there must be some degree of interstate commerce present for a trademark to receive Lanham Act protection. The U.S. Supreme Court invalidated the first federal trademark law by finding that Congress could not stretch the Copyright Clause to cover trademarks,\n\nUnlike copyright law which provides for criminal penalties as well as civil damages, trademark law in the United States is almost entirely enforced through private lawsuits. The exception is in the case of criminal counterfeiting of goods. Otherwise, the responsibility is entirely on the mark owner to file suit in either state or federal civil court in order to restrict an infringing use. Failure to \"police\" a mark by stopping infringing uses can result in the loss of protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17103057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17103057", "title": "VADS (organisation)", "text": "VADS (organisation)\n\nVADS (formerly an initialism for Visual Arts Data Service) is a UK organisation that provides digital images and other visual arts resources free and copyright cleared for use in UK higher education and further education. It has provided services to the academic community since 3 March 1997, and has built up a portfolio of visual art collections comprising over 100,000 images. VADS is based at the University for the Creative Arts at Farnham.\n"}
{"id": "6587247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587247", "title": "Virginia school of political economy", "text": "Virginia school of political economy\n\nThe Virginia School of political economy is a school of economic thought originating in universities of Virginia (University of Virginia, Virginia Tech, and George Mason University) in the 1950s and 1960s, mainly focusing on public choice theory, constitutional economics, and law and economics.\n\nIt emerged first at the Thomas Jefferson Center at the University of Virginia established by James M. Buchanan and G. Warren Nutter in 1957. It was there that Ronald Coase formulated his famous theorem on the problem of social cost (1960) and that Buchanan and Gordon Tullock wrote \"The Calculus of Consent: Logical Foundations of Constitutional Democracy\" (1962).\n\nIn 1969, Buchanan, Tullock, and Charles J. Goetz established the Center for the Study of Public Choice at Virginia Tech, which moved with them to George Mason University in 1983. Other prominent scholars associated with the school include Dennis C. Mueller, Robert D. Tollison, Andrew B. Whinston, and Leland B. Yeager.\n\nThe Virginia approach to political economy focuses on comparing private and public sector institutions as imperfect alternatives. The Virginia approach is also favored by some economists of the Chicago and Austrian schools. Virginia School economists are often seen as 'fellow travelers' with Austrian economists, as members of both schools of economic thought generally favor free-market outcomes.\n\nThere are several main lines of research in the Virginia School. James Buchanan and Gordon Tullock were among the earliest economists to apply economic analysis to national constitutions. Tullock also founded the modern rent seeking literature. Mancur Olson founded modern research on collective action and special interest groups. Olson was not at GMU, Virginia, or Virginia Tech, but Virginia scholars tend to emphasize special interest group bias in government.\n\nHowever the Virginia School is opposed to the Chicago school of political economy on two fundamental points. Chicago believes that politics tends towards efficiency due to the fact that human predators provoke stiffening resistance in their human prey due to the exponentially increasing deadweight loss imposed by takings. Chicago also believes that because political markets tend towards efficiency, policy advice by scholars is irrelevant. Charles Rowley is a prominent opponent of these notions and has set out his views in the Encyclopedia of Public Choice where he writes that Chicago's \"… interpretation of the political process emanates from a fundamentally flawed application of … microeconomics to the political marketplace … while the Journal of Political Economy publishes papers that defend the U.S. federal farm program as an efficient mechanism for transferring income to poor farmers, there is justifiable cause to worry whether CPE [Chicago political economy] scholars and their journal editors ever look out from their ivory towers and survey the real world.\"\n\nThe Public Choice Society is an outgrowth of the Virginia School.\n"}
{"id": "4402682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402682", "title": "Workers with Family Responsibilities Convention, 1981", "text": "Workers with Family Responsibilities Convention, 1981\n\nWorkers with Family Responsibilities Convention, 1981 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1981, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women workers: workers with family responsibilities...\n\nArticle 1 provides the definition of \"workers with family responsibilities\" and Article 3 cites Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention (ILO Convention C 111) to define the discrimination. This Convention is cited by Maternity Protection Convention, 2000 (ILO Convention C 183). \nAs of May 2015, the convention had been ratified by 44 states.\n\n"}
