{"id": "31928708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31928708", "title": "Abasa", "text": "Abasa\n\nSūrat ʻAbasa (, \"He Frowned\") is the 80th sura of the Qur'an with 42 ayat. It is a Meccan sura. The Surah is so designated after the word `abasa with which it opens. The opening verses discuss the theme of ableism.\n\nCommentators and traditionalists of the Sunni origin are unanimous about the occasion of the revelation of this Surah. According to them, at one time some big chiefs of Makkah were sitting in the assembly of Mohammad, and he was earnestly engaged in trying to persuade them to accept Islam. At that very point, a blind man, named Abd-Allah ibn Umm-Maktum, approached him to seek explanation of some point concerning Islam. Muhammad disliked his interruption and ignored him. Thereupon Allah sent down this Surah. From this historical incident the period of the revelation of this Surah can be precisely determined.\n\nIn the first place, it is confirmed that Abd-Allah ibn Umm-Maktum was one of the earliest converts to Islam. Ibn Hajar and Ibn Kathir have stated that he was one of those who had accepted Islam at a very early stage at Makkah.\n\nSecondly, some of the traditions of the Hadith which relate this incident show that he had already accepted Islam, and some others show that he was inclined to accept it and had approached Muhammad in search of the truth. Aishah states that coming to Muhammad he had said: \"O Messenger of Allah, guide me to the straight path.\" (Tirmidhi, Hakim, Ibn Hibban, Ibn Jarir, Abu Ya'la. According to Abdullah bin Abbas, he had asked the meaning of a verse of the Qur'an and said to Muhammad: \"O Messenger of Allah, teach me the knowledge that Allah has taught you.\" Ibn Jarir, Ibn Abu Hatim). These statements show that he had acknowledged Muhammad. Contrary to this, Ibn Zaid has interpreted the words \"la'allahu yazzakka\" of verse 3 to mean: , \"that perhaps he might become Muslim.\" (Ibn Jarir) And Allah's own words: \"What would make you know that he might reform, or heed the admonition, and admonishing might profit him?\" and \"The one who comes to you running, of his own will, and fears, from him you turn away\", point out that by that time he had developed in himself a deep desire to learn the truth: he had come to Muhammad with the belief that he was the only source of guidance, and his desire would be satisfied only through him; his apparent state also reflected that if he was given instruction, he would benefit by it.\n\nThirdly, the names of the people who were sitting in Muhammad's assembly at that time, have been given in different traditions. In this list we find the names of Utba ibn Rabi'ah, Shaibah, Abu Jahl, Umayyah ibn Khalaf, Ubay ibn Khalaf, who were the bitterest enemies of Islam. This shows that the incident took place in the period when these chiefs were still on meeting terms with the Muhammed and their antagonism to Islam had not yet grown so strong as to have stopped their paying visits to him and having dialogues with him off and on. All these arguments indicate that this is one of the very earliest Surahs to be revealed at Makkah.\n\nThe Shia interpretations are unanimous on the view that the person that frowned away was not Muhammad, but an elite from Banu Umayya. According to them, these verses were descended about the man from Banu Umayya who was sitting with Muhammad. At the same time, Abdullah bin Umm Maktum entered, when the rich man saw the poverty stricken Abdullah he drew himself aside, not to get his dress dirty and contracted his facial expressions, got uneasy. In those verses the God stated his acts and criticized and condemned it.\n\nFurthermore, to be grimed faced and stern was not the part of Muhammad’s character. He was always talked to the people with a smiling and open face. Another fact is that to get engaged with the rich people and to be inattentive to the poor and truth seekers is not suited to the morality of Muhammad which is mentioned in the Verse 4 of Sura e Nun Also known as Surah Al-Qalam. Additionally, Surah Al-Qalam was revealed before Surah Abasa.\n\n\nوَإِنَّكَ لَعَلى خُلُقٍ عَظِيمٍ\n\nTranslation:\nAnd indeed, you are of a great moral character.\n\nAnd Indeed, a Hadith is rejected if it opposes even a single verse of Quran.\n\nIn view of the apparent style with which the discourse opens, one feels that in this Surah, Allah has expressed His displeasure against ill-treatment of any low level man. And when the whole Surah is considered objectively, one finds that the displeasure, in fact, has been expressed against the disbelieving Quraish, who because of their arrogant attitude and indifference to the truth, were rejecting with contempt the message of truth being conveyed by Muhammad.\n\nIt is to be noted that the word used was Abasa, which refers to 'He'. The Quran doesn't directly impose the frowning on Muhammad, But the Quran says \"He frowned away\", making it widely open for interpretation. \n"}
{"id": "17897341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17897341", "title": "Andrew Edward McKeever", "text": "Andrew Edward McKeever\n\nAndrew Edward McKeever DSO, MC & Bar, DFC (21 August 1894 – 25 December 1919) was a Canadian World War I two-seater flying ace who, in conjunction with his gunners, was credited with 31 victories. He was the highest scoring two seater fighter pilot in the Royal Flying Corps or Royal Air Force.\n\nMcKeever was born in Listowel, Ontario, Canada, to Bella Henderson and William McKeever, a grocer and butcher. After attending Toronto's Central Technical School, McKeever worked as a teller until 1916.\n\nMcKeever joined the Queen's Own Rifles of Canada, a militia unit, as a private. He remained with them until November, 1916, when he was accepted into the Royal Flying Corps. He sailed for England for training on 25 November 1916. He was commissioned a probationary lieutenant on 5 December.\n\nFollowing training, he was assigned on 28 May 1917 to No. 11 Squadron, which was flying obsolete F.E.2s. They re-equipped shortly thereafter with Bristol F.2A fighters, sometimes referred to as the Brisfit. Among McKeever's tasks were photographic reconnaissance, with his observer wielding a hand-held camera and taking the photos. Although the Brisfit could do this job well, it was as fast as the Fokkers that opposed it, as well as maneuverable enough to be flown like a single-seater.\n\nMcKeever began his career as an ace by destroying a D.V on 26 June 1917 and sending down another out of control. On 7 July, he and Powell knocked down three more, with one destroyed and two falling uncontrollably out of the battle. McKeever would repeat this feat of triple victories on three more occasions, on 5 August, 23 September, and 31 October 1917.\n\nOn 3 October, when his score reached 20, Lieutenant McKeever was awarded a Bar to the Military Cross he had gained a month prior.\n\nOn 30 November 1917, while flying Brisfit A7288, he ended his career by attacking two German two-seaters protected by a flight of seven Albatros D.Vs. The D.Vs paid dearly for their protective role, as McKeever and Powell destroyed four of them, one of which burned. When Powell's gun failed, McKeever feigned being shot down and dived out the battle. He leveled off at only 25 feet altitude and, hidden from enemy planes by a shield of fog, hightailed for home. The remaining Germans broke off contact. This epic battle earned the Distinguished Service Order for Captain McKeever.\n\nMcKeever would score all 31 of his victories while flying the two-seater fighter, becoming the RFC/RAF's leading two-seater fighter pilot ace. All but two of those triumphs were over German Albatros D.V fighters. Seven different gunners/observers shared his victories. One of these, Lieutenant Leslie Powell, became an ace in his own right, with 19 successes, 18 of which were in tandem with McKeever.\n\nMckeever and his gunners's 31-claim tally consisted of 18 destroyed and 13 'out of control'.\n\nOn 25 January 1918, both pilot and observer were withdrawn from combat and shipped home. Major McKeever joined fellow aces William Bishop and Raymond Collishaw in establishing the Canadian Air Force. McKeever organized No 1 Squadron of the new air force, and served as its commanding officer. The war ended before the new squadron could take its Sopwith Dolphins to battle. Canada's government then dissolved the fledgling air force.\n\nWith war's end, McKeever accepted a job managing an airfield at Mineola, New York. Before he could start work, he was involved in an auto accident in his home town of Listowel. He broke his leg, complications set in, and he died of cerebral thrombosis on Christmas Day, 1919.\n\n\"2nd Lt Andrew Edward McKeever, R.F.C., Spec. Res.\nFor conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty, particularly when on offensive patrol. He attacked eight enemy aircraft single-handed at close range, and by his splendid dash and determination destroyed one and drove five down completely out of control. He had previously shown exceptional fearlessness in attacking the enemy when in superior numbers, and in the space of three weeks he destroyed eight hostile machines, setting a very fine example to his squadron.\"\n\n\"Lt. Andrew Edward McKeever, M.C., R.F.C., Spec. Res.\nFor conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty in aerial combats. He has recently destroyed five enemy aeroplanes and driven down six out of control. On one occasion he encountered five enemy scouts, and drove down two out of control. Later, while leading a patrol, he engaged nine enemy scouts. He destroyed two, drove down one out of control, and dispersed the remainder. His dash and determination have been a fine example to his squadron.\"\n\n\"2nd Lt. (T./Capt.) Andrew Edward McKeever, M.C., R.F.C., Spec. Res.\nFor conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty. While on patrol by himself over the enemy's lines in very bad weather he encountered two enemy two-seater machines and seven scouts. By skilful maneuvering he engaged one and destroyed it. As he turned to get back to the lines five of the enemy dived on his tail and his observer engaged and destroyed two of them. After an indecisive combat with two others, he attacked and destroyed one of the enemy which had overshot him. He continued the fight with the remainder until he was within twenty feet of the ground, when the enemy machines climbed and left him. He has recently destroyed ten enemy machines and has shown great courage and initiative.\"\n\nNew Chinook building named for Canadian First World War hero\n\nOn June 26, 2015, descendants of Major Andrew Edward McKeever and Member of Parliament for Renfrew-Nipissing-Pembroke Cheryl Gallant unveil the main sign for the 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron hangar during its dedication ceremony at Canadian Forces Base Petawawa, Ontario. PHOTO: Sergeant Jean-Francois Lauzé\n450 Squadron commanding officer Lieutenant-Colonel Christopher McKenna (left); 450 Squadron Chief Warrant Officer CWO Luc Emond; McKeever family members Phyllis Thompson, Ross Thompson and Ralf Robinson; Renfrew-Nipissing-Pembroke Member of Parliament Cheryl Gallant; and 1 Wing commander Colonel Scott Clancy prepare to cut the ribbon on the new Major Andrew Edward McKeever Building at Canadian Forces Base Petawawa, Ontario, on June 26, 2015. PHOTO: Sergeant Jean-Francois Lauzé\nCrewmembers load a CH-147F Chinook helicopter with nitrogen tanks at the Kapuskasing, Ontario, airport on May 1, 2015. The Chinook was deployed on Operation Lentus in support of the provincial evacuation of residents from the flood-affected community of the Kashechewan First Nation, located near the Albany River on the western shore of James Bay in Northern Ontario. PHOTO: Master Corporal Melissa Spence\n\nBy Melinda Miller\n\nThe Royal Canadian Air Force's (RCAF's) 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron, located at Canadian Forces Base (CFB) Petawawa, Ontario, was re-established as the home for Canada's new CH-147F Chinook helicopter fleet and, on June 26, 2015, the hangar housing the new Chinooks was officially named the Major Andrew Edward McKeever Building.\n\n\"Major McKeever was the epitome of what it means to serve one's country, with an impressive 18 aerial victories to his name in the First World War,\" wrote Minister of National Defence Jason Kenney in a statement read by Member of Parliament Cheryl Gallant (Renfrew—Nipissing—Pembroke) during the ceremony. \"It is a fitting tribute to Major McKeever's service to name the home of our new Chinook fleet after him.\"\n\nMajor McKeever was a Canadian First World War flying ace who claimed his first two aerial victories 98 years ago, on June 26, 1917. He received the Military Cross on September 17, 1917, for his total of 18 targets confirmed destroyed, and received a bar to his Military Cross a month later.\n\nRCAF historian Major William March has checked many published sources concerning Major McKeever's combat record. \"Most of the sources I have checked credit him with 31 victories, of which 13 were enemy aircraft 'driven down out of control',\" Major March said. \"Up until late 1918, it was British practice to credit the 'moral' victory of preventing an enemy aircraft from completing its task by driving it away. It should be noted that as the prevailing winds on the Western Front more often than not blew from British lines toward German lines, it was common practice for German aircraft to dive away from a fight toward their own lines (these were often claimed as 'driven down out of control'), where they would climb to altitude and get back into the fight.\"\n\n\"We are pleased to be able to have descendants of Major Andrew McKeever here with us today as we dedicate this hangar in his name,\" said 450 Squadron commanding officer Lieutenant-Colonel Chris McKenna during the June 26 ceremony. \"The tradition of naming buildings after soldiers, sailors and aviators in the Canadian Armed Forces is well established, and provides us with a link to our roots and history, one that will be a reminder to every member of this squadron as they pass through those front doors.\"\n\nUnder the Canada First Defence Strategy, the Government of Canada invested in infrastructure at CFB Petawawa that includes a hangar, a ramp, utility services (water, sewer, electrical lines, etc.), a refueling facility, and a fenced-in parking area. The 50,000-square-metre building, constructed by EllisDon Corporation of Ottawa under an original contract valued at $134.8 million, houses the new helicopters and 450 Squadron (which reports to 1 Wing, Kingston, Ontario). By 2016 it will be home to about 400 military personnel.\n\nCanada's 15th and final CH-147F Chinook helicopter arrived in July 2014. The Chinooks have dramatically increased the RCAF's ability to respond effectively to needs throughout Canada and elsewhere. They can operate in remote and isolated areas, and respond to emergencies such as fires, floods and earthquakes. The fleet saw its first action in April 2015, when two Chinooks deployed to Kapuskasing, Ontario, in response to spring flooding.\n\n"}
{"id": "4358532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4358532", "title": "Australian ghostshark", "text": "Australian ghostshark\n\nThe Australian ghostshark (\"Callorhinchus milii\") is a cartilaginous fish (Chondrichthyes) belonging to the subclass Holocephali (chimaera). Sharks, rays and skates are the other members of the cartilaginous fish group and are grouped under the subclass Elasmobranchii. Alternative names include elephant shark, makorepe (in Māori), whitefish, plough-nose chimaera, or elephant fish. It is found off southern Australia, including Tasmania, and south of East Cape and Kaipara Harbour in New Zealand, at depths of .\n\nThe fish is silvery in colour with iridescent reflections and dark, variable markings on the sides. \nMales mature at and females at , and the maximum length head to tail is . It has an elongated body and two widely separated, triangular dorsal fins. They use their hoe-shaped snouts to probe the ocean bottom for invertebrates and small fishes.\n\nFrom spring to autumn, adults migrate inshore to estuaries and bays and females lay their eggs on sandy or muddy substrates. The eggs are contained in large yellowish capsules. The egg partially opens enabling seawater to flow in to the egg capsules after a few months and juveniles emerge from the capsule after six to eight months as about in length. Maximum age is estimated to be 15 years.\n\nThis fish has three cone pigments for colour vision (like humans); its dorsal fin has a very sharp spine. The spine has been reputed to be venomous, but no serious injuries have yet been reported.\n\nIn New Zealand, Australian ghostsharks are exploited commercially, particularly during spring and summer when they migrate into shallow coastal waters.\n\nIn Australia, they are caught by southern shark gillnet fishery, particularly in Bass Strait and south-east Tasmania, though this fishery targets the gummy shark, \"Mustelus antarcticus,\" and will sometimes discard ghostsharks due to the considerably lower price they fetch at market. They are also a popular target of recreational fishers in Westernport Bay, Victoria and in the inshore waters of south-east Tasmania. Their white flesh fillets are very popular with fish-and-chips restaurants in New Zealand and is sold as 'flake' or 'whitefish' in Australia.\n\nIn January 2014, \"Nature\" reported research into the Australian ghostshark genome that showed they lack a single gene family that regulates the process of turning cartilage into bone, and indicates a gene duplication event gave rise to the transformation in bony vertebrates.\n\nThe Australian ghostshark was proposed as a model cartilaginous fish genome because of its relatively small genome size. Its genome is estimated to be 910 megabases long, which is the smallest among all the cartilaginous fishes and one-third the size of the human genome (3000 Mb). Because cartilaginous fishes are the oldest living group of jawed vertebrates, the Australian ghostshark genome will serve as a useful reference genome for understanding the origin and evolution of vertebrate genomes including humans, which shared a common ancestor with the Australian ghostshark about 450 million years ago. Studies so far have shown the sequence and the gene order (synteny) are more similar between human and elephant shark genomes than between human and teleost fish genomes (pufferfish and zebrafish), though humans are more closely related to teleost fishes than to the Australian ghostshark. The Elephant Shark Genome Project was launched with the aim to sequence the whole genome of the elephant shark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35942883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35942883", "title": "Biological dark matter", "text": "Biological dark matter\n\nBiological dark matter is an informal term for genetic material or microorganisms that are unclassified or poorly understood.\n\nBiological dark matter includes non-coding DNA (junk DNA) and non-coding RNA. Much of the genomic dark matter is thought to originate from ancient transposable elements and from other low-complexity repetitive elements. Uncategorized genetic material is found in humans and in several other organisms. Their phylogenetic novelty could indicate the cellular organisms or viruses from which they evolved.\n\nBiologists are unable to culture and grow 99% of all living microorganisms, so few functional insights exist about the metabolic potential of these organisms.\n\n"}
{"id": "946929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=946929", "title": "Bionics", "text": "Bionics\n\nBionics or biologically inspired engineering is the application of biological methods and systems found in nature to the study and design of engineering systems and modern technology.\n\nThe word \"bionic\" was coined by Jack E. Steele in 1958, possibly originating from the technical term \"bion\" (pronounced \"BEE-on\"; from \"bíos\"), meaning 'unit of life' and the suffix \"-ic\", meaning 'like' or 'in the manner of', hence 'like life'. Some dictionaries, however, explain the word as being formed as a portmanteau from biology\" and \"electronics. It was popularized by the 1970s U.S. television series \"The Six Million Dollar Man\" and \"The Bionic Woman\", both based upon the novel \"Cyborg\" by Martin Caidin, which was itself influenced by Steele's work. All feature humans given superhuman powers by electromechanical implants.\n\nThe transfer of technology between lifeforms and manufactured objects is, according to proponents of bionic technology, desirable because evolutionary pressure typically forces living organisms, including fauna and flora, to become highly optimized and efficient. A classical example is the development of dirt- and water-repellent paint (coating) from the observation that practically nothing sticks to the surface of the lotus flower plant (the lotus effect)..\n\nThe term \"biomimetic\" is preferred when reference is made to chemical reactions. In that domain, biomimetic chemistry refers to reactions that, in nature, involve biological macromolecules (e.g. enzymes or nucleic acids) whose chemistry can be replicated \"in vitro\" using much smaller molecules.\n\nExamples of bionics in engineering include the hulls of boats imitating the thick skin of dolphins; sonar, radar, and medical ultrasound imaging imitating animal echolocation.\n\nIn the field of computer science, the study of bionics has produced artificial neurons, artificial neural networks, and swarm intelligence. Evolutionary computation was also motivated by bionics ideas but it took the idea further by simulating evolution in silico and producing well-optimized solutions that had never appeared in nature.\n\nIt is estimated by Julian Vincent, professor of biomimetics at the University of Bath's Department of Mechanical Engineering, that \"at present there is only a 12% overlap between biology and technology in terms of the mechanisms used\".\n\nThe name biomimetics was coined by Otto Schmitt in the 1950s. The term bionics was coined by Jack E. Steele in 1958 while working at the \"Aeronautics Division House\" at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. However, terms like biomimicry or biomimetics are more preferred in the technology world in efforts to avoid confusion between the medical term bionics. Coincidentally, Martin Caidin used the word for his 1972 novel \"Cyborg\", which inspired the series \"The Six Million Dollar Man\". Caidin was a long-time aviation industry writer before turning to fiction full-time.\n\nThe study of bionics often emphasizes implementing a function found in nature rather than imitating biological structures. For example, in computer science, cybernetics tries to model the feedback and control mechanisms that are inherent in intelligent behavior, while artificial intelligence tries to model the intelligent function regardless of the particular way it can be achieved.\n\nThe conscious copying of examples and mechanisms from natural organisms and ecologies is a form of applied case-based reasoning, treating nature itself as a database of solutions that already work. Proponents argue that the selective pressure placed on all natural life forms minimizes and removes failures.\n\nAlthough almost all engineering could be said to be a form of biomimicry, the modern origins of this field are usually attributed to Buckminster Fuller and its later codification as a house or field of study to Janine Benyus.\n\nThere are generally three biological levels in the fauna or flora, after which technology can be modeled:\n\n\nBionics refers to the flow of concepts from biology to engineering and vice versa. Hence, there are two slightly different points of view regarding the meaning of the word.\n\nIn medicine, bionics means the replacement or enhancement of organs or other body parts by mechanical versions. Bionic implants differ from mere prostheses by mimicking the original function very closely, or even surpassing it.\n\nBionics' German equivalent, \"Bionik\", always adheres to the broader meaning, in that it tries to develop engineering solutions from biological models. This approach is motivated by the fact that biological solutions will usually be optimized by evolutionary forces.\n\nWhile the technologies that make bionic implants possible are developing gradually, a few successful bionic devices exist, a well known one being the Australian-invented multi-channel cochlear implant (bionic ear), a device for deaf people. Since the bionic ear, many bionic devices have emerged and work is progressing on bionics solutions for other sensory disorders (e.g. vision and balance). Bionic research has recently provided treatments for medical problems such as neurological and psychiatric conditions, for example Parkinson's disease and epilepsy.\n\nBy 2004 fully functional artificial hearts were developed. Significant progress is expected with the advent of nanotechnology. A well-known example of a proposed nanodevice is a respirocyte, an artificial red cell, designed (though not built yet) by Robert Freitas. \n\nKwabena Boahen from Ghana was a professor in the Department of Bioengineering at the University of Pennsylvania. During his eight years at Penn, he developed a silicon retina that was able to process images in the same manner as a living retina. He confirmed the results by comparing the electrical signals from his silicon retina to the electrical signals produced by a salamander eye while the two retinas were looking at the same image.\n\nIn 2007 the Scottish company Touch Bionics launched the first commercially available bionic hand, named \"i-Limb Hand\". According to the firm, by May 2010 it has been fitted to more than 1,200 patients worldwide.\n\nThe Nichi-In group is working on biomimicking scaffolds in tissue engineering, stem cells and regenerative medicine have given a detailed classification on biomimetics in medicine.\n\nOn 21 July 2015, the BBC’s medical correspondent Fergus Walsh reported, \"Surgeons in Manchester have performed the first bionic eye implant in a patient with the most common cause of sight loss in the developed world. Ray Flynn, 80, has dry age-related macular degeneration which has led to the total loss of his central vision. He is using a retinal implant which converts video images from a miniature video camera worn on his glasses. He can now make out the direction of white lines on a computer screen using the retinal implant.\" The implant, known as the Argus II and manufactured in the US by the company Second Sight Medical Products, had been used previously in patients who were blind as the result of the rare inherited degenerative eye disease retinitis pigmentosa.\n\nA political form of biomimicry is bioregional democracy, wherein political borders conform to natural ecoregions rather than human cultures or the outcomes of prior conflicts.\n\nCritics of these approaches often argue that ecological selection itself is a poor model of minimizing manufacturing complexity or conflict, and that the free market relies on conscious cooperation, agreement, and standards as much as on efficiency – more analogous to sexual selection. Charles Darwin himself contended that both were balanced in natural selection – although his contemporaries often avoided frank talk about sex, or any suggestion that free market success was based on persuasion, not value.\n\nAdvocates, especially in the anti-globalization movement, argue that the mating-like processes of standardization, financing and marketing, are already examples of runaway evolution – rendering a system that appeals to the consumer but which is inefficient at use of energy and raw materials. Biomimicry, they argue, is an effective strategy to restore basic efficiency.\n\nBiomimicry is also the second principle of Natural Capitalism.\n\nBusiness biomimetics is the latest development in the application of biomimetics. Specifically it applies principles and practice from biological systems to business strategy, process, organisation design and strategic thinking. It has been successfully used by a range of industries in FMCG, defence, central government, packaging and business services. Based on the work by Phil Richardson at the University of Bath the approach was launched at the House of Lords in May 2009.\n\nIn a more specific meaning, it is a creativity technique that tries to use biological prototypes to get ideas for engineering solutions. This approach is motivated by the fact that biological organisms and their organs have been well optimized by evolution. In chemistry, a biomimetic synthesis is a chemical synthesis inspired by biochemical processes.\n\nAnother, more recent meaning of the term bionics refers to merging organism and machine. This approach results in a hybrid system combining biological and engineering parts, which can also be referred as a cybernetic organism (cyborg). Practical realization of this was demonstrated in Kevin Warwick's implant experiments bringing about ultrasound input via his own nervous system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42521522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42521522", "title": "Black genocide", "text": "Black genocide\n\nIn the United States, black genocide refers to the genocide of African Americans both in the past and in the present. The decades of lynchings and long-term racial discrimination were first formally described as genocide by a now defunct organization, the Civil Rights Congress, in a petition to the United Nations in 1951. In the 1960s, Malcolm X accused the US government of engaging in genocide against black people, citing long-term injustice, cruelty, and violence by whites against blacks.\n\nSome accusations of genocide have been described as conspiracy theories. After President Lyndon B. Johnson pushed through his War on Poverty legislation including public funding of the Pill for the poor in the mid 1960s, family planning (birth control) was said to be \"black genocide\" at the first Black Power Conference held in July 1967. In 1970 after abortion was more widely legalized, some black militants named abortion specifically as part of the conspiracy theory. Most African-American women were not convinced of a conspiracy, and rhetoric about race genocide faded. However, in 1973, media revelations about decades of government-sponsored compulsory sterilization led some to say that this was part of a plan for black genocide.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War the increasing use of black soldiers in combat provided a basis for the accusation of a government supported \"black genocide\". In recent decades the disproportionately high black prison population has been cited in support of the theory.\n\nAfter World War II and following many years of mistreatment of African Americans by white Americans, the US government's official policies regarding the matter shifted significantly. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) said in 1946 that negative international opinion about US racial policies brought pressure to bear on the US and that this was helping to alleviate the mistreatment \"of racial and national minorities\". In 1948 President Harry S. Truman signed an order desegregating the military. Black citizens increasingly challenged existing ways of racial discrimination.\nThe United Nations (UN) was formed in 1945. The UN debated and adopted a Genocide Convention in late 1948, holding that genocide was the \"intent to destroy, in whole or in part\", a racial group. Based on the \"in part\" definition, the Civil Rights Congress (CRC), a group composed of African Americans with Communist affiliations, presented to the UN in 1951 a petition called \"We Charge Genocide\". The petition listed 10,000 unjust deaths of African Americans in the nine decades since the American Civil War. It described lynching, mistreatment, murder and oppression by whites against blacks to conclude that the US government was conducting a genocide of African Americans, by refusing to address \"the persistent, widespread, institutionalized commission of the crime of genocide\". The petition was presented to the UN convention in Paris by CRC leader William L. Patterson, and in New York City by the singer and actor Paul Robeson who was a civil rights activist and a Communist member of CRC.\n\nThe Cold War raised American concerns about Communist expansionism. The CRC petition was viewed by the US government as being against America's best interests with regard to fighting Communism. The petition was ignored by the UN; many of the charter countries looked to the US for guidance and were not willing to arm the enemies of the US with more propaganda about its failures in domestic racial policy. American responses to the petition were various: Radio journalist Drew Pearson spoke out against the supposed \"Communist propaganda\" before it was presented to the UN. Professor Raphael Lemkin, a Polish lawyer who had helped draft the UN Genocide Convention, said that the CRC petition was a misguided effort which drew attention away from the Soviet Union's genocide of Estonians, Latvians and Lithuanians. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) issued a statement saying that there was no black genocide even though serious matters of racial discrimination certainly did exist in America. Walter Francis White, leader of the NAACP, wrote that the CRC petition contained \"authentic\" instances of discrimination, mostly taken from reliable sources. He said \"Whatever the sins of the nation against the Negro—and they are many and gruesome—genocide is not among them.\" UN Delegate Eleanor Roosevelt said that it was \"ridiculous\" to characterize long term discrimination as genocide.\n\nThe \"We Charge Genocide\" petition received more notice in international news than in domestic US media. French and Czech media carried the story prominently, as did newspapers in India. In 1952, African-American author J. Saunders Redding traveling in India was repeatedly asked questions about specific instances of civil rights abuse in the US, and the CRC petition was used by Indians to rebut his assertions that US race relations were improving. In the US, the petition faded from public awareness by the late 1950s. In 1964, Malcolm X and his Organization of Afro-American Unity, citing the same lynchings and oppression described in the CRC petition, began to prepare its own petition to the UN asserting that the US government was engaging in genocide against black people. The 1964 Malcolm X speech \"The Ballot or the Bullet\" also draws from \"We Charge Genocide\".\n\nBeginning in 1907, some US state legislatures passed laws allowing for the compulsory sterilization of criminals, mentally retarded people, and institutionalized mentally ill patients. At first, African Americans and white Americans suffered sterilization in roughly equal ratio. By 1945, some 70,000 Americans had been sterilized in these programs. In the 1950s, the federal welfare program Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) was criticized by some whites who did not want to subsidize poor black families. States such as North and South Carolina performed sterilization procedures on low-income black mothers who were giving birth to their second child. The mothers were told that they would have to agree to have their tubes tied or their welfare benefits would be cancelled, along with the benefits of the families they were born into. Because of such policies, especially prevalent in Southern states, sterilization of African Americans increased from 23% of the total in the 1930s and 1940s to 59% at the end of the 1950s, and rose further to 64% in the mid-1960s.\n\nIn mid-1973 news stories revealed the forced sterilization of poor black women and children, paid for by federal funds. Two girls of the Relf family in Mississippi, deemed mentally incompetent at ages 12 and 14, and also 18-year-old welfare recipient Nial Ruth Cox of North Carolina, were prominent cases of involuntary sterilization. \"Jet\" magazine presented the story under the headline \"Genocide\". Critics said these stories were publicized by activists against legal abortion.\n\nAfrican Americans pushed for equal participation in US military service in the first part of the 20th century and especially during World War II. Finally, President Harry S. Truman signed legislation to integrate the US military in 1948. However, Selective Service System deferments, military assignments, and especially the recruits accepted through Project 100,000 resulted in a greater representation of blacks in combat in the Vietnam War in the second half of the 1960s. African Americans represented 11% of the US population but 12.6% of troops sent to Vietnam. Cleveland Sellers said that the drafting of poor black men into war was \"a plan to commit calculated genocide\". Former SNCC chairman Stokely Carmichael, black congressman Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. and SNCC member Rap Brown agreed. In October 1969, King's widow Coretta Scott King spoke at an anti-war protest held at the primarily black Morgan State College in Baltimore. Campus leaders published a statement against what they termed \"black genocide\" in Vietnam, blaming President Richard Nixon in the US as well as President Nguyễn Văn Thiệu and Vice President Nguyễn Cao Kỳ from South Vietnam.\n\nIn 1969, H. Rap Brown wrote in his autobiography, \"Die Nigger Die!\", that American courts \"conspire to commit genocide\" against blacks by putting a disproportionate number of them in prison. Political scientist Joy A. James wrote that \"antiblack genocide\" is the motivating force which explains the way that US prisons are filled largely with black prisoners. Author and former prisoner Mansfield B. Frazier contends that the rumor in American ghettos \"that whites are secretly engaged in a program of genocide against the black race\" is given \"a measure of validity\" by the number of \"black men of child-producing age who are imprisoned for crimes for which men of other races are not.\n\nA falling birth rate has been identified by some observers as harmful to a race of people; for instance, in 1905 Teddy Roosevelt said that it was \"race suicide\" for white Americans if educated white women continued to have fewer children. Certain African-American leaders also taught that political power came with greater population. In 1934, Marcus Garvey and his Universal Negro Improvement Association resolved that birth control constituted black genocide.\n\nThe combined oral contraceptive pill, popularly known as \"the Pill\", was approved for US markets in 1957 as a medicine, and in 1961 for birth control. In 1962, civil rights activist Whitney Young told the National Urban League not to support birth control for blacks. Marvin Davies, leader of the Florida chapter of the NAACP, said that black women should reject birth control and produce more babies so that black political influence would increase in the future.\nThe Pill was considered expensive by working class women; the first users were upper- and middle-class women. After President Lyndon B. Johnson, as part of his War on Poverty, obtained legislation in 1964 for government funding of birth control, Black militants became more concerned about a possible government-sponsored black genocide. Cecil B. Moore, head of the NAACP chapter in Philadelphia, spoke out against a Planned Parenthood program which was to establish a stronger presence in northern Philadelphia; the population in the targeted neighborhoods was 70% black. Moore said it would be \"race suicide\" for blacks to embrace birth control.\nFrom 1965 to 1970, black militant males, especially younger men from poverty-stricken areas, spoke out against birth control as black genocide. The Black Panther Party and the Nation of Islam were the strongest voices. The Black Panther Party identified a number of injustices as contributing to black genocide, including social ills that were more serious in black populations, such as drug abuse, prostitution and sexually transmitted disease. Other injustices included unsafe housing, malnutrition and the over-representation of young black men on the front lines of the Vietnam War. Influential black activists such as singer/author Julius Lester and comedian Dick Gregory said that blacks should increase in population and avoid genocidal family planning measures. H. Rap Brown of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) held that black genocide consisted of four elements: more blacks executed than whites, malnutrition in impoverished areas affected blacks more than whites, the Vietnam War killed more blacks than whites, and birth control programs in black neighborhoods were trying to end the black race. A birth control clinic in Cleveland, Ohio, was torched by black militants who said it contributed to black genocide.\n\nBlack Muslims said that birth control was against the teachings of the Koran, and that the role of women in Muslim society was to produce children. In this context, the Black Muslims felt that birth control was a genocidal attack by whites. The Muslim weekly journal, \"Muhammad Speaks\", carried many articles demonizing birth control.\n\nIn Newark, New Jersey, in July 1967, the Black Power movement held its first convention: the National Conference on Black Power. The convention identified several means by which whites were attempting the annihilation of blacks. Injustices in housing practices, reductions in welfare benefits, and government-subsidized family planning were named as elements of \"black genocide\". \"Ebony\" magazine printed a story in March 1968 which revealed that black genocide was believed by poor blacks to be the impetus behind government-funded birth control.\n\nReverend Martin Luther King, Jr., was a strong proponent of birth control for blacks. In 1966, he was honored with the Margaret Sanger Award in Human Rights, an award based on the tireless birth control activism of Margaret Sanger, a co-founder of Planned Parenthood. King emphasized that birth control gave the black man better command over his personal economic situation, keeping the number of his children within his monetary means. In April 1968, Martin Luther King, Jr., was shot and killed. Charles V. Willie wrote in 1971 that this event marked the beginning of serious reflection among African Americans \"about the possibility of [black] genocide in America. There were lynchings, murders, and manslaughters in the past. But the assassination of Dr. King was too much. Many blacks believed that Dr. King had represented their best... If America could not accept Dr. King, then many felt that no black person in America was safe.\"\nBlack women were generally critical of the Black Power rejection of birth control. In 1968, a group of black radical feminists in Mt. Vernon, New York issued \"The Sisters Reply\"; a rebuttal which said that birth control gave black women the \"freedom to fight the genocide of black women and children,\" referring to the greater death rate among children and mothers in poor families. Frances M. Beal, co-founder of the Black Women's Liberation Committee of the SNCC, refused to believe that the black woman must be subservient to the black man's wishes. Angela Davis and Linda LaRue reacted against the Black Power limitations directing women to serve as mothers producing \"warriors for the revolution.\" Toni Cade said that indiscriminate births would not bring the liberation of blacks closer to realization; she advocated the Pill as a tool to help space out the births of black children, to make it easier for families to raise them. The Black Women's Liberation Group accused \"poor black men\" of failing to support the babies they helped produce, therefore supplying young black women with reason to use contraceptives. Dara Abubakari, a black separatist, wrote that \"women should be free to decide if and when they want children\". A 1970 study found that 80% of black women in Chicago approved of birth control, and that 75% of women in their child-bearing years were using it. A 1971 study found that a majority of black men and women were in favor of government-subsidized birth control.\n\nIn Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a community struggle for and against a birth control clinic in the Homewood area of east Pittsburgh made national news. Women in Pittsburgh had lobbied for a birth control clinic in the 1920s and were relieved in 1931 when the American Birth Control League (ABCL) established one. The ABCL changed its name in 1942 to Planned Parenthood. The Pittsburgh clinic initiated an educational outreach program to poor families in the Lower Hill District in 1956. This program was twinned into the poverty-stricken Homewood-Brushton area in 1958. Planned Parenthood considered opening another clinic there, and conducted meetings with community leaders. In 1963 a mobile clinic was moved around the area. In December 1965, the Planned Parenthood Clinic of Pittsburgh (PPCP) applied for federal funding based on the War on Poverty legislation Johnson had promoted. In May 1966 the application was approved, and PPCP began to establish clinics throughout Pittsburgh, a total of 18 by 1967, 11 of these subsidized by the federal government and placed in poor districts. In mid-1966 the Pennsylvania state legislature held up family planning funds in committee. Catholic bishops gained media exposure for their assertion that Pittsburgh birth control efforts were a form of covert black genocide. In November 1966 the bishops said that the government was coercing poor people to have smaller families. Some black leaders such as local NAACP member Dr. Charles Greenlee agreed with the bishops that birth control was black genocide. Greenlee said Planned Parenthood was \"an honorable and good organization\" but that the federal Office of Economic Opportunity was sponsoring genocidal programs. Greenlee said \"the Negro's birth rate is the only weapon he has. When he reaches 21 he can vote.\" Greenlee targeted the Homewood clinic for closure; in doing so he allied with black militant William \"Bouie\" Haden and Catholic prelate Charles Owen Rice to speak out against black genocide, and against PPCP's educational outreach program. Planned Parenthood's Director of Community Relations Dr. Douglas Stewart said that the false charge of black genocide was harming the national advancement of blacks. In July 1968, Haden announced he was willing to blow up the clinic to keep it from operating. The Catholic church paid him a salary of $10,000, igniting an outcry in Pittsburgh media. Bishop John Wright was called a \"puppet of Bouie Haden\". The PPCP closed the Homewood clinic in July 1968 and stopped its educational program because of concerns about violence. The black congregation of the Bethesda United Presbyterian Church issued a statement saying that accusations of black genocide were \"patently false\". A meeting was scheduled for March 1969 to discuss the issue. About 200 women, mostly black, appeared in support of the clinic, and it was reopened. This was seen as a major defeat for the black militant notion that government-funded birth control was black genocide.\n\nOther prominent black advocates for birth control included Carl Rowan, James L. Farmer, Jr., Bayard Rustin, Jerome H. Holland, Ron Dellums and Barbara Jordan.\n\nIn the US in the 21st century, black people are most likely to be at risk of unintended pregnancy: 84% of black women of reproductive age use birth control, in contrast to 91% of Caucasian and Hispanic women, and 92% of Asian Americans. This results in black women having the highest rate of unintended pregnancy—in 2001, almost 10% of black women giving birth between the ages of 15 to 44 had unintended pregnancies, which was more than twice the rate of white women. Poverty affects these statistics, as low-income women are more likely to experience disruption in their lives; disruption which affects the steady use of birth control. People in poor areas are more suspicious of the health care system, and they may refuse medical treatment and advice, especially for less-critical wellness treatments such as birth control.\n\nSlave women brought with them from Africa the knowledge of traditional folk birth control practices, and of abortion obtained through the use of herbs, blunt trauma, and other methods of killing the fetus or producing strong uterine cramps. Slave women were often expected to breed more slave children to enrich their owners, but some quietly rebelled. In 1856 a white doctor reported that a number of slave owners were upset that their slaves appeared to hold a \"secret by which they destroy the foetus at an early age of gestation\". However, this folk knowledge was suppressed in the new American culture, especially by the nascent American Medical Association, and its practice fell away.\n\nAfter slavery ended, black women formed social groups and clubs in the 1890s to \"uplift their race.\" The revolutionary idea that a black woman might enjoy a full life without ever being a mother was presented in Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin's magazine \"The Woman's Era\". Knowledge was secretly shared among clubwomen regarding how to find practitioners offering illegal medical or traditional abortion services. Working-class black women, forced more often into sex with white men, continued to find a need for birth control and abortion. Black women who earned less than $10 per day paid $50 to $75 for an illegal and dangerous abortion. Throughout the 20th century, \"backstreet\" abortion providers in black neighborhoods were also sought out by poor white women who wanted to rid themselves of a pregnancy. Abortion providers who were black were prosecuted much more often than white ones.\n\nIn the Tennessee General Assembly in 1967, Dorothy Lavinia Brown, MD, the first African-American woman surgeon and a state assemblywoman, was the first American to sponsor a proposed bill to fully legalize abortion. Though this early effort failed, abortion was made legal in various US states from 1967 to 1972. During this time the Black Panthers printed pamphlets describing abortion as black genocide, expanding on their earlier stance regarding family planning. However, most minority groups stood in favor of the decriminalization of abortion; the \"New York Times\" reported in 1970 that more non-white women than white women died as a result of \"crude, illegal abortions\". Legalized abortion was expected to produce fewer deaths of the mother. A poll in Buffalo, New York, conducted by the National Organization for Women (NOW), found that 75% of blacks supported the decriminalization of abortion.\nAfter the January 1973 \"Roe v. Wade\" Supreme Court decision made abortion legal in the US, \"Jet\" magazine publisher Robert E. Johnson authored an article called \"Legal Abortion: Is It Genocide Or Blessing In Disguise?\" Johnson cast the issue as one which polarized the black community along gender lines: black women generally viewed abortion as a \"blessing in disguise\" but black men such as Reverend Jesse Jackson viewed it as black genocide. Jackson said he was in favor of birth control but not abortion. The next year, Senator Mark Hatfield, an activist against legal abortion, emphasized to Congress that Jackson \"regards abortion as a form of genocide practiced against blacks.\"\n\nIn \"Jet\", Johnson quoted Lu Palmer, a radio journalist in Chicago, who said that there was inequity between the sexes: a young black man who helped create an unwanted pregnancy could go his \"merry way\" while the young woman involved was stigmatized by society and saddled with a financial and emotional burden, often without a safety net of caregivers to sustain her. Civil rights lawyer Florynce Kennedy criticized the idea that black women were needed to populate the Black Power revolution. She said that black majorities in the Deep South were not known to be hotbeds of revolution, and that limiting black women to the role of mothers was \"not too far removed from a cultural past where Black women were encouraged to be breeding machines for their slave masters.\" Tennessee Assemblywoman Dorothy Brown said black women \"should dispense quickly the notion that abortion is genocide\", rather, they should look to the earliest Atlantic slave traders as the root of genocide. Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm wrote in 1970 that the linking of abortion and genocide \"is male rhetoric, for male ears.\"\n\nHowever, a link between abortion and black genocide has been claimed by later observers. Mildred Fay Jefferson, a surgeon and an activist against legal abortion, wrote about black genocide in 1978, saying \"abortionists have done more to get rid of generations and cripple others than all of the years of slavery and lynching.\"\n\nIn 2009, American pro-life activists in Georgia revived the idea that a black genocide was in progress. A strong response from this strategy was observed among blacks, and in 2010 more focus was placed on describing abortion as black genocide. White pro-life activist Mark Crutcher produced a documentary called \"Maafa 21\" which criticizes Planned Parenthood and its founder Margaret Sanger, and describes various historic aspects of eugenics, birth control and abortion with the aim of convincing the viewer that abortion is black genocide. Pro-life activists showed the documentary to black audiences across the US. The film was criticized as propaganda and a false representation of Sanger's work. In March 2011, a series of abortion-as-genocide billboard advertisements were shown in South Chicago, an area with a large population of African Americans. From May to November 2011, presidential candidate Herman Cain criticized Planned Parenthood, calling abortion \"planned genocide\" and \"black genocide\".\n\nIn 1976, sociologist Irving Louis Horowitz published an analysis of black genocide and concluded that racist vigilantism and sporadic action by individual whites was to blame for the various statistics that show blacks suffering from higher death rates. Horowitz concluded that the US government could not be implicated as a conspirator, that there was no conspiracy to engage in concerted black genocide.\n\nPolitical scientist Joy A. James wrote in 2013 that the \"logical conclusion\" of American racism is genocide, and that members of the black elite are complicit, along with white Americans, in carrying out black genocide.\n\n"}
{"id": "1904332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1904332", "title": "Brassica rapa", "text": "Brassica rapa\n\nBrassica rapa is a plant consisting of various widely cultivated subspecies including the turnip (a root vegetable); napa cabbage, bomdong, bok choy, and cime di rapa (leaf vegetables); and \"Brassica rapa subsp. oleifera\", an oilseed which has many common names, including \"turnip rape\", \"field mustard\", \"bird rape\", and \"keblock\".\n\nThe oil made from the seed is sometimes also called \"canola\" or \"colza\", which is one reason why it is sometimes confused with rapeseed oil, but this comes from a different \"Brassica\" species (\"Brassica napus\"). The oilseeds known as canola are sometimes particular varieties of \"Brassica rapa\" (termed Polish Canola) but usually the related species \"Brassica napus\" (rapeseed) and \"Brassica juncea\" (mustard greens and mizuna).\n\nResearchers at the University of Wisconsin–Madison have selectively bred one subspecies of \"B. rapa\" to have an extremely short life cycle for use as a model organism in education and experiment. This variety is known by the trademarked name \"Wisconsin Fast Plants.\"\n\nIn the 18th century the turnip and the oilseed-producing variants were seen as being different species by Carl Linnaeus who named them \"B. rapa\" and \"B. campestris\". 20th-century taxonomists found that the plants were cross fertile and thus belonged to the same species. Since the turnip had been named first by Linnaeus, the name \"Brassica rapa\" was adopted.\n\nMany butterflies, including the small white, pollinate the \"B. rapa\" flowers.\n\n"}
{"id": "19801472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19801472", "title": "Charles James Campbell", "text": "Charles James Campbell\n\nCharles James Campbell (November 6, 1819 – April 17, 1906) was a Scottish-born merchant and political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada. He represented Victoria in the House of Commons of Canada from 1874 to 1875, from 1876 to 1878 and from 1882 to 1887 as a Conservative member.\n\nHe was born on the Isle of Skye, the son of John Campbell and Isabella McRae, and came to Nova Scotia in 1831. In 1843, Campbell married Eliza Jane Ingraham. He owned the New Campbell Coal Mines. He was named a justice of the peace for Cape Breton County in 1851 and county coroner in 1857. Campbell was also lieutenant-colonel for the county militia, served as a chairman of the county board of health, was a school trustee and served on the province's board of agriculture.\n\nCampbell represented Victoria County in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1853 to 1859, from 1863 to 1867 and from 1871 to 1873. He was also elected to the provincial assembly in 1851 and 1860 but was unseated after those elections were appealed. He served as a member of the province's Executive Council from 1856 to 1859. In 1873, he was named to the province's Legislative Council and he served until 1874, when he was elected to the House of Commons. His election was subsequently overturned the following year. Campbell was an unsuccessful candidate for the House of Commons in 1873, 1875, 1878 and 1887.\n\nCampbell died in North Sydney at the age of 86.\n"}
{"id": "48315557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48315557", "title": "Chase (son of Ioube)", "text": "Chase (son of Ioube)\n\nChase, the son of Ioube (), originally Hasan ibn Ayyub, was a senior Byzantine official of Arab origin.\n\nChase, a Hellenized form of the Arabic name \"Hasan\", is mentioned by the \"De Administrando Imperio\", a work compiled in the middle of the 10th century by Constantine VII Porphyrogennetos, and the chronicles of Theophanes Continuatus and Georgius Monachus. Along with his younger brother, who received the Christian name Niketas on his baptism, he was reportedly a slave of the \"patrikios\" Damian, the \"parakoimomenos\" of Emperor Michael III (), implying that they had been captured as prisoners of war during a conflict with the Arabs around the middle of the 9th century or shortly after. It is unclear whether they came alone or with their father Ioube (Ἰούβη, Hellenized form of Ayyub); it is possible that they came to Byzantium as children, and that Niketas was even born there. Unlike his brother, who converted to Christianity, Chase remained a Muslim throughout his life.\n\nConstantine VII asserts that during the reign of his uncle Alexander (), Chase was one of his closest confidantes. Constantine VII further accuses him of having a negative influence on the emperor. According to the chroniclers, he held a fiscal position in the theme of Hellas thereafter. He became quickly hated by the local inhabitants due to his incessant demands, until he was stoned to death before the altar of a church (most likely the converted Parthenon) in Athens. As he was a Muslim, he may have tried to seek sanctuary there, or otherwise his entering of the church may have outraged the congregation leading to his murder. His death took place probably in 915.\n\nThe \"illoustrios\" John Ioubes later in the century was possibly a descendant or otherwise a relative.\n"}
{"id": "821197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=821197", "title": "Cognitive tutor", "text": "Cognitive tutor\n\nA cognitive tutor is a particular kind of intelligent tutoring system that utilizes a cognitive model to provide feedback to students as they are working through problems. This feedback will immediately inform students of the correctness, or incorrectness, of their actions in the tutor interface; however, cognitive tutors also have the ability to provide context-sensitive hints and instruction to guide students towards reasonable next steps.\n\nThe name of Cognitive Tutor® now usually refers to a particular type of intelligent tutoring system produced by Carnegie Learning for high school mathematics based on John Anderson's ACT-R theory of human cognition. However, cognitive tutors were originally developed to test ACT-R theory for research purposes since the early 1980s and they are developed also for other areas and subjects such as computer programming and science. Cognitive Tutors can be implemented into classrooms as a part of blended learning that combines textbook and software activities.\n\nThe Cognitive Tutor programs utilize cognitive model and are based on model tracing and knowledge tracing. Model tracing means that the cognitive tutor checks every action performed by students such as entering a value or clicking a button, while knowledge tracing is used to calculate the required skills students learned by measuring them on a bar chart called Skillometer. Model tracing and knowledge tracing are essentially used to monitor students' learning progress, guide students to correct path to problem solving, and provide feedback.\n\nThe Institute of Education Sciences published several reports regarding the effectiveness of Carnegie Cognitive Tutor®. A 2013 report concluded that Carnegie Learning Curricula and Cognitive Tutor® was found to have mixed effects on mathematics achievement for high school students. The report identified 27 studies that investigate the effectiveness of Cognitive Tutor ®, and the conclusion is based on 6 studies that meet What Works Clearinghouse standards. Among the 6 studies included, 5 of them show intermediate to significant positive effect, while 1 study shows statistically significant negative effect. Another report published by Institute of Education Sciences in 2009 found that Cognitive Tutor® Algebra I to have potentially positive effects on math achievement based on only 1 study out of 14 studies that meets What Works Clearinghouse standards.it should be understood that What Works Clearinghouse standards call for relatively large numbers of participants, true random assignments to groups, and for a control group receiving either no treatment or a different treatment. Such experimental conditions are difficult to meet in schools, and thus only a small percentage of studies in education meet the standards of this clearinghouse, even though they may still be of value.\n\nIntelligent tutoring systems (ITS) traditionally had a three-component architecture: domain model, student model, and tutoring model. Later, a fourth component was added: the interface component. Now ITS is commonly known to have a four component architecture.\n\nDomain model contains the rules, concepts, and knowledge related to the domain to be learned. It helps to evaluate students' performance and detect students' errors by setting a standard of domain expertise.\n\nStudent model, the central component of an ITS, is expected to contain as much knowledge as possible about the students: their cognitive and affective states, and the progress they gained as they learn. The functions of the student model is three folded: to gather data from and about the learner, to represent the learner's knowledge and learning process, and to perform diagnosis of students' knowledge and select optimal pedagogical strategies.\n\nBased on the data gained from domain model and student model, tutoring model makes decisions about tutoring strategies such as whether or not to intervene, when and how to intervene. Functions of tutoring model include instruction delivery and content planning.\n\nInterface model reflects the decisions made by tutoring model in different forms such as Socratic dialogs, feedback and hints. Students interact with the tutor through the learning interface, also known as communication. Interface also provide domain knowledge elements.\n\nA \"cognitive model\" tries to model the domain knowledge in the same way knowledge is represented in the human mind. Cognitive model enables intelligent tutoring systems to respond to problem-solving situations as the learner would. A tutoring system adopting a cognitive model is called a cognitive tutor.\n\nCognitive model is an expert system which hosts a multitude of solutions to the problems presented to students. The cognitive model is used to trace each student's solution through complex problems, enabling the tutor to provide step-by-step feedback and advice, and to maintain a targeted model of the student's knowledge based on student performance.\n\nCognitive Tutors provide step-by-step guidance as a learner develops a complex problem-solving skill through practice. Typically, cognitive tutors provide such forms of support as: (a) a problem-solving environment that is designed rich and \"thinking visible\"; (b) step-by-step feedback on student performance; (c) feedback messages specific to errors; (d) context-specific next-step hints at student's request, and (e) individualized problem selection.\n\nCognitive Tutors accomplish two of the principal tasks characteristic of human tutoring: (1) monitors the student's performance and providing context-specific individual instruction, and (2) monitors the student's learning and selects appropriate problem-solving activities.\n\nBoth cognitive model and two underlying algorithms, model tracing and knowledge tracing, are used to monitor the student's learning. In model tracing, the cognitive tutor uses the cognitive model in complex problems to follow the student's individual path and provide prompt accuracy feedback and context-specific advice. In knowledge tracing, the cognitive tutor uses a simple Bayesian method of evaluating the student's knowledge and uses this student model to select appropriate problems for individual student.\n\nCognitive tutors use a cognitive architecture which specifies the underlying framework for an intelligent system.\n\nACT-R, a member of ACT family, is the most recent cognitive architecture, devoted primarily to modelling human behavior. ACT-R includes a declarative memory of factual knowledge and a procedural memory of production rules. The architecture functions by matching productions on perceptions and facts, mediated by the real-valued activation levels of objects, and executing them to affect the environment or alter declarative memory. ACT-R has been used to model psychological aspects such as memory, attention, reasoning, problem solving, and language processing.\n\nIn 1984, a group of high school students participated in a mini course in computer science and tried out the geometry tutor through Carnegie Mellon University using the LISP tutor, one of the first iterations of the cognitive tutor.\nSince then, cognitive tutors have been used in a variety of scenarios, with a few organizations developing their own cognitive tutor programs. These programs have been used for students spanning elementary school through to university level, though primarily in the subject areas of Computer Programming, Mathematics, and Science.\nOne of the first organizations to develop a system for use within the school system was the PACT Center at Carnegie Mellon University. Their aim was to \"...develop systems that provide individualized assistance to students as they work on challenging real-world problems in complex domains such as computer programming, algebra and geometry\". PACT's most successful product was the \"Cognitive Tutor Algebra\" course. Originally created in the early 1990s, this course, at its peak, was offered at 75 schools through the U.S. by 1999, and then its spin-off company, Carnegie Learning, now offers tutors to over 1400 schools in the U.S.\n\nThe Carnegie Mellon Cognitive Tutor has attempted to raise students' math test scores in high school and middle-school classrooms, and their Algebra course was designated one of five exemplary curricula for K-12 mathematics educated by the US Department of Education.\nThere were several research projects conducted by the PACT Center to utilize Cognitive tutor for courses in Excel and to develop an intelligent tutoring system for algebra expression writing, called \"Ms. Lindquist\". Initially used by thousands of students, the aim of the Ms. Lindquist program was to have a tutor that could carry on running conversations with a student, with the intent of providing a more human connection. Further, in 2005, Carnegie Learning released \"Bridge to Algebra\", a product intended for middle schools that was piloted in over 100 schools.\n\nCognitive tutoring software is continuing to be used. According to a recent \"Business Insider Report\" article, Ken Koedinger, a professor of human-computer interaction and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University, says teachers can integrate cognitive tutoring software into the classroom. He suggests that teachers use it in a computer lab environment or during classes. In its more current versions, cognitive tutors can understand the many ways that a student might answer a problem, and then assist the student at the exact time that the help is required. Further, the cognitive tutor can customize exercises specific to the student's needs.\n\nAt this time it is unclear whether Cognitive Tutor® is effective at improving student performance. Cognitive Tutor® has had some commercial success however, there may be limitations inherently linked to its design and the nature of intelligent tutoring systems. The following section discusses limitations of Cognitive Tutor® which may also apply to other intelligent tutoring systems.\n\nAt this time, creating a Cognitive Tutor® for all subject areas is not practical or economical. Cognitive Tutor® has been used successfully but is still limited to tutoring algebra, computer programming and geometry because these subject areas have an optimal balance of production rules, complexity and maximum benefit to the learner.\n\nThe focus of Cognitive Tutor® development has been the design of the software to teach specific production rules and not on the development of curricular content. Despite many years of trials, improvements, and a potential to advance learning objectives, the creators continue to rely primarily on outside sources for curricular direction.\n\nThe complexity of Cognitive Tutor® software requires designers to spend hundreds of hours per instructional hour to create the program. Despite the time invested, the challenges associated with meeting the needs of the learner within the constraints of the design often result in compromises in flexibility and cognitive fidelity.\n\nPracticality dictates that designers must choose from a discrete set of methods to teach and support learners. Limited choices of methods, prompts and hints may be effective in supporting some learners but may conflict with the methods already in use by others. In addition, it is possible that learners will use the system of prompts and hints to access the answers prematurely thereby advancing through the exercises which may result in them not meeting the learning objectives.\n\nThe cognitive model, which inspired Cognitive Tutor® is based on assumptions about how learning occurs which dictates the chosen instructional methods such as hints, directions and timing of the tutoring prompts. Given these assumptions and the limited methods of presentation, Cognitive Tutor® may not account for the flexible, complex and diverse ways humans create knowledge. Human tutors outperform Cognitive Tutor® by providing a higher level of responsiveness to student errors. They are capable of providing more effective feedback and scaffolding to learners than Cognitive Tutor®, indicating the cognitive model may still be incomplete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5989808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989808", "title": "Cornelia (wife of Caesar)", "text": "Cornelia (wife of Caesar)\n\nCornelia (c. 97 – c. 69 BC) was the first wife of Caesar, and the mother of his only daughter, Julia. A daughter of Lucius Cornelius Cinna, Cornelia was related by birth or marriage to many of the most influential figures of the late Republic.\n\nCornelia was the daughter of Lucius Cornelius Cinna, one of the most influential politicians at Rome during the conflict between the generals Gaius Marius and Lucius Cornelius Sulla. He held the consulship for an unprecedented term of four consecutive years, from BC 87 to 84, when he was slain in a soldiers' mutiny. During this period, he espoused the side of Marius, leaving his family exposed to Sulla's wrath on the latter's return in 82.\n\nBy his wife, Annia, Cinna had a son, Lucius, and two daughters, conventionally known as \"Cornelia Major\", who married Gnaeus Domitius Ahenobarbus, and \"Cornelia Minor\", the wife of Caesar. The designations \"Major\" and \"Minor\" were not really part of their names, but were used to distinguish between sisters, who bore the same nomen. Since there were a great many Corneliae at Rome, Caesar's wife is occasionally referred to as \"Cornelia Cinnae\", or \"Cinna's Cornelia\".\n\nSuetonius reports that Caesar and Cornelia were married in the consulate occurring after Caesar lost his father, which occurred in his sixteenth year. In Suetonius' chronology, Caesar was born in 100 BC, placing the death of his father in 85 or 84. Thus, he probably married Cornelia in 83, when he was about seventeen years old, and she perhaps a little younger. Their daughter, Julia, was Caesar's only legitimate child, and the only one he acknowledged.\n\nThe young Caesar was one of those to whom Sulla turned his attention after returning to Rome. Although he had taken no part in the government of Marius and Cinna, and done nothing to oppose Sulla's return, Caesar's aunt, Julia, was the wife of Marius; his cousin was the younger Marius, who as consul in 82 was defeated by Sulla, and had taken his own life as the city fell. Marius and Cinna had appointed the young Caesar to an important priesthood, and by marrying Cinna's daughter, Caesar gained control of a substantial dowry. Sulla regarded Caesar as a potential rival, and commanded him to divorce Cornelia.\n\nHowever, neither the deprivation of his priesthood, Cornelia's dowry, and his own inheritance, nor the threat of violence, would induce Caesar to forsake his wife. He was proscribed, and escaped Rome in disguise, evading capture by regularly changing his place of concealment, and on at least one occasion by bribing the commander of a patrol sent to search for Sulla's enemies. Eventually Sulla relented, following the intercession of Caesar's numerous friends and kinsmen, and Caesar returned home to Cornelia.\n\nAfter about thirteen years of marriage, Cornelia died early in her husband's quaestorship, which occurred in BC 69 or 68. Caesar was due to depart for Spain, and had already pronounced the funeral oration of his aunt, Julia, from the rostra, as was customary for elderly Roman matrons. He then gave an oration in honour of Cornelia, which was extraordinary in the case of a young woman, although it later became commonplace.\n\nAfter his quaestorship, Caesar returned to Rome, and married Pompeia, a granddaughter of Sulla. His own daughter, Julia, subsequently married Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus, a lieutenant of Sulla's who had since become Rome's most illustrious general, and held the consulship of BC 70. Caesar cultivated a political alliance with Pompeius and his former colleague, Marcus Licinius Crassus, which by 59 evolved into the First Triumvirate. Julia's death in childbirth in 54 was one of the events that hastened the end of this alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1811064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811064", "title": "Crixus", "text": "Crixus\n\nCrixus was a Gallic gladiator and military leader in the Third Servile War between the Roman Republic and rebel slaves. Born in Gaul, he was enslaved by the Romans under unknown circumstances and trained as a gladiator in Capua. His name means \"one with curly hair\" in Gaulish.\n\nIn 73 BC, Crixus was part of what started as a small slave revolt in the gladiatorial training school of Lentulus Batiatus in Capua, in which about 70 gladiators escaped. The escaped slaves defeated a small force sent to recapture them, then made camp on the slopes of Mount Vesuvius. Word of the escaped gladiators' revolt spread, and other escaped slaves started to join their ranks. At this time, the band of former slaves chose Crixus—with the Thracian Spartacus, and the Gaul Oenomaus - as one of their leaders. Later in the rebellion, another Gaul, Castus and Celtic former Gladiator Gannicus also served as generals under Spartacus.\n\nThe movement, in the course of what would come to be known as the Third Servile War, witnessed numerous military successes for the escaped slaves. They routed the militia forces the Roman Senate sent to put down the insurrection by rappelling down the cliffs of Mount Vesuvius and attacking the Roman camp from behind. With these early successes, thousands of fellow slaves swarmed to their ranks, until their numbers swelled to perhaps as many as 150,000.\n\nFor reasons that are unclear, Crixus and about 30,000 followers appear to have separated from Spartacus and the main body of escaped slaves toward the end of 73 BC. Contemporary historians have theorized two possible reasons for the split. One theory proposes that Crixus and his followers were intent on plundering the Roman countryside and, perhaps, marching on Rome, while Spartacus and his followers wanted to cross the Alps to reach Gaul and freedom. A second theory is that the split had strategic value and was planned by Spartacus and Crixus as a way to further their strategic goals.\n\nWhatever the reason for the split, Crixus' contingent came under attack from a Roman army under the command of the Roman consul Lucius Gellius Publicola near Mount Gargano in 72 BC. Crixus, who is said to have fought bravely in a losing effort, was killed in the conflict.\n\nSpartacus, on hearing of the defeat of Crixus and his forces, held mock gladiatorial games, in which he forced captured Roman soldiers to fight to the death. Either 300 or 400 Romans were sacrificed in Crixus' honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1959874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1959874", "title": "Drew Endy", "text": "Drew Endy\n\nAndrew (Drew) David Endy (born 1970) is a synthetic biologist and Tenured Professor of bioengineering at Stanford University, California.\n\nEndy received his PhD from Dartmouth College in 1997 for his work on genetic engineering using T7 phage.\n\nEndy was a junior fellow for 3 years and later an Assistant Professor in the Department of Biological Engineering at MIT.\n\nWith Thomas Knight, Gerald Jay Sussman, Randy Rettberg, and other researchers at MIT, Endy is working on synthetic biology and the engineering of standardized biological components, devices, and parts, collectively known as BioBricks. Endy is one of several founders of the Registry of Standard Biological Parts, and invented an abstraction hierarchy for integrated genetic systems.\n\nEndy is also known for his opposition to limited ownership and support of free access to genetic information. He has been one of the early promoters of open source biology, and helped start the Biobricks Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that will work to support open-source biology. He was also a co-founder of the now defunct Codon Devices, a biotechnology startup company that aimed to commercialize synthetic biology.\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"Denialism How Irrational Thinking Hinders Scientific Progress, Harms the Planet, and Threatens Our Lives\", Michael Specter called Endy ‘synthetic biology’s most compelling evangelist’ as he is persistent on discussing the prospects and dangers of synthetic biology on nearly any forum. According to Endy, the prospects of synthetic biology will allow \"programming\" living organisms in the same way a computer scientist program a software and computer, designing and making a disposable biological system and a manufacturing platform, even one’s own offspring or own copy with improved traits such as to prevent occurrence of disease, and bypassing evolution. The dangers lie in the unknown things that this technology will produce, who will control the technology, pay for it, the ethical and cultural impact, the safety issues and how the whole value system work. Endy is reflective and engaged in the possible risks of this field. He advocates dialogue and a serious discussion on the ‘contract’ on engineering biology with the society. It should be a national strategic priority on advancing the potential benefits of the synthetic biology technology, while accepting that risk is inevitable rather than fixating on theoretical risk.\n\nIn March 2013, heading a team of researchers that had created the biological equivalent of a transistor, which they dubbed a \"transcriptor\". The invention was the final of the three components necessary to build a fully functional biocomputer - data storage, information transmission, and a basic system of logic.\nDr. Endy continues, to this day, to pursue the perfection of his formulation for Green Pi ale. Early clinical trials have indicated profound impact on cognitive function.\n\n"}
{"id": "3979064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979064", "title": "Exogenote", "text": "Exogenote\n\nAn exogenote is a piece of donor DNA that is involved in the mating of prokaryotic organisms.\n\nTransferred DNA of Hfr is called exogenote and homologous part of F genophore is called endogenoteAn exogenote is genetic material that is released into the environment by prokaryotic cells, usually upon their lysis. This exogenous genetic material is then free to be taken up by other competent bacteria, and used as a template for protein synthesis or broken down for its molecules to be used elsewhere in the cell. Taking up genetic material into the cell from the surrounding environment is a form of bacterial transformation. Exogenotes can also be transferred directly from donor to recipient bacteria as an F'-plasmid in a process known as bacterial conjugation. F'-plasmids only form if the F+ factor is incorrectly translated, and results in a small amount of donor DNA erroneously transferring to the recipient with very high efficiency. \n"}
{"id": "19503028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19503028", "title": "Fred Hoey", "text": "Fred Hoey\n\nFred Hoey (1885 – November 17, 1949) was a major league baseball broadcaster. Hoey called games for the Boston Braves from 1925–38 and Boston Red Sox from 1927-38.\n\nHoey was born in Boston, but raised in Saxonville, Massachusetts. At the age of 12, Hoey saw his first baseball game during the 1897 Temple Cup. Hoey would later play semipro baseball and work as an usher at the Huntington Avenue Grounds.\n\nIn 1903, Hoey was hired as a sportswriter, writing about high school sports, baseball, and hockey. In 1924, he became the first publicity director of the Boston Bruins. Hoey began broadcasting Braves games in 1925 and Red Sox games in 1927, becoming the first full-time announcer for both teams.\n\nIn 1933, Hoey was hired by CBS Radio to call Games 1 and 5 of the World Series after commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis declared that Ted Husing and Graham McNamee could not call World Series games because they did not call any regular season games. Hoey was removed from the CBS broadcasting booth during the fourth inning of game one after his voice went out. Although reported as a cold, Hoey's garbled and incoherent words led many to think that Hoey was drunk. After this incident, Hoey never went to the broadcast booth without a tin of throat lozenges. His only other national assignment was calling the 1936 Major League Baseball All-Star Game, played in Boston, for Mutual.\n\nAfter the 1936 season, Hoey was fired by the head of the Yankee Network, John Shepard III. Baseball fans, including Franklin D. Roosevelt rallied to his defense. After the 1938 season, Hoey demanded a raise, but the sponsors, despite public pressure, replaced Hoey with former player and manager Frankie Frisch. After leaving the booth, Hoey covered the Red Sox and Braves in Boston newspapers until 1946.\n\nHoey died in Winthrop, Massachusetts, on November 17, 1949, of accidental gas asphyxiation.\n"}
{"id": "33513290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33513290", "title": "GeneSat-1", "text": "GeneSat-1\n\nGeneSat-1 is a fully automated, CubeSat spaceflight system that provides life support for bacteria. The system was launched into orbit on December 16, 2006, from Wallops Flight Facility. GeneSat-1 began to transmit data on its first pass over the mission's California ground station.\n\nThe nanosatellite contains onboard micro-laboratory systems such as sensors and optical systems that can detect proteins that are the products of specific genetic activity. Knowledge gained from GeneSat-1 is intended to aid scientific understanding of how spaceflight affects the human body.\n\nWeighing 5 kilograms, the miniature laboratory was a secondary payload on an Air Force four-stage Minotaur 1 rocket that delivered the Air Force TacSat 2 satellite to orbit. In the development of the GeneSat satellite class (at a fraction of what it normally costs to conduct a mission in space), Ames Research Center (Small Spacecraft Office) collaborated with organisations in industry and also universities local to the center. It is NASA's first fully automated, self-contained biological spaceflight experiment on a satellite of its size.\n\n"}
{"id": "29664347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29664347", "title": "Halysis", "text": "Halysis\n\nHalysis is a genus of red alga thought to fall in the coralline stem group. It has only been recovered in thin sections, and thus is only known in two dimensions; however, an interpretation as a sheet of cells rather than a sheet of tubes or a single row of cells is the most plausible.\n"}
{"id": "1159407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1159407", "title": "Homeosis", "text": "Homeosis\n\nIn evolutionary developmental biology, homeosis is the transformation of one organ into another, arising from mutation in or misexpression of certain developmentally critical genes, specifically homeotic genes. In animals, these developmental genes specifically control the development of organs on their anteroposterior axis. In plants, however, the developmental genes affected by homeosis may control anything from the development of a stamen or petals to the development of chlorophyll. Homeosis may be caused by mutations in Hox genes, found in animals, or others such as the MADS-box family in plants. Homeosis is a characteristic that has helped insects become as successful and diverse as they are.\n\nHomeotic mutations work by changing segment identity during development. For example, the \"Ultrabithorax\" genotype gives a phenotype wherein metathoracic and first abdominal segments become mesothoracic segments. Another well-known example is \"Antennapedia\": a gain-of-function allele causes legs to develop in the place of antennae.\n\nIn botany, Rolf Sattler has revised the concept of homeosis (replacement) by his emphasis on partial homeosis in addition to complete homeosis; this revision is now widely accepted.\n\nHomeotic mutants in angiosperms are thought to be rare in the wild: in the annual plant \"Clarkia\" (Onagraceae), homeotic mutants are known where the petals are replaced by a second whorl of sepal-like organs, originating via a mutation governed by a single recessive gene. The absence of lethal or deleterious consequences in floral mutants resulting in distinct morphological expressions has been a factor in the evolution of Clarkia, and perhaps also in many other plant groups.\n\nFollowing the work on homeotic mutants by Ed Lewis, the phenomenology of homeosis in animals was further elaborated by discovery of a conserved DNA binding sequence present in many homeotic proteins. \nThus, the 60 amino acid DNA binding protein domain was named the homeodomain, while the 180 bp nucleotide sequence encoding it was named the homeobox. The homeobox gene clusters studied by Ed Lewis were named the Hox genes, although it should be noted that many more homeobox genes are encoded by animal genomes than those in the Hox gene clusters.\n\nThe homeotic-function of certain proteins was first postulated to be that of a \"selector\" as proposed by Antonio Garcia-Bellido. \nBy definition selectors were imagined to be (transcription factor) proteins that stably determined one of two possible cell fates for a cell and its cellular descendants in a tissue. \nWhile most animal homeotic functions are associated with homeobox-containing factors, not all homeotic proteins in animals are encoded by homeobox genes, and further not all homeobox genes are necessarily associated with homeotic functions or (mutant) phenotypes.\nThe concept of homeotic selectors was further elaborated or at least qualified by Michael Akam in a so-called \"post-selector gene\" model that incorporated additional findings and \"walked back\" the \"orthodoxy\" of selector-dependent stable binary switches.\n\nThe concept of tissue compartments is deeply intertwined with the selector model of homeosis because the selector-mediated maintenance of cell fate can be restricted into different organizational units of an animal's body plan.\nIn this context, newer insights into homeotic mechanisms were found by Albert Erives and colleagues by focusing on enhancer DNAs that are co-targeted by homeotic selectors and different combinations of developmental signals.\nThis work identifies a protein biochemical difference between the transcription factors that function as homeotic selectors versus the transcription factors that function as effectors of developmental signaling pathways, such as the Notch signaling pathway and the BMP signaling pathway.\nThis work proposes that homeotic selectors function to \"license\" enhancer DNAs in a restricted tissue compartment so that the enhancers are enabled to read-out developmental signals, which are then integrated via polyglutamine-mediated aggregation.\n\nLike the complex multicellularity seen in animals, the multicellularity of land plants is developmentally organized into tissue and organ units via transcription factor genes with homeotic effects.\nAlthough plants have homeobox-containing genes, plant homeotic factors tend to possess MADS-box DNA binding domains.\nAnimal genomes also possess a small number MADS-box factors.\nThus, in the independent evolution of multicellularity in plants and animals, different eukaryotic transcription factor families were co-opted to serve homeotic functions. \nMADS-domain factors have been proposed to function as co-factors to more specialized factors and thereby help to determine organ identity.\nThis has been proposed to correspond more closely to the interpretation of animal homeotics outlined by Michael Akam.\n\n"}
{"id": "47449480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47449480", "title": "Human–animal hybrid", "text": "Human–animal hybrid\n\nTerms human–animal hybrid and animal–human hybrid refer to an entity that incorporates elements from both humans and non-human animals.\n\nFor thousands of years, these hybrids have been one of the most common themes in storytelling about animals throughout the world. The lack of a strong divide between humanity and animal nature in multiple traditional and ancient cultures has provided the underlying historical context for the popularity of tales where humans and animals have mingling relationships, such as in which one turns into the other or in which some mixed being goes through a journey. Interspecies friendships within the animal kingdom, as well as between humans and their pets, additionally provides an underlying root for the popularity of such beings.\n\nIn various mythologies throughout history, many particularly famous hybrids have existed, including as a part of Egyptian and Indian spirituality. The entities have also been characters in fictional media more recently in history such as in H. G. Wells' work \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", adapted into the popular 1932 film \"Island of Lost Souls\". In legendary terms, the hybrids have played varying roles from that of trickster and/or villain to serving as divine heroes in very different contexts, depending on the given culture.\n\nFor example, Pan is a deity in Greek mythology that rules over and symbolizes the untamed wild, being worshiped by hunters, fishermen, and shepherds in particular. The mischievous yet cheerful character is a Satyr who has the hindquarters, legs, and horns of a goat while otherwise being essentially human in appearance, with stories of his encounters with different gods, humans, and others being retold for centuries on after the days of early Greece by groups such as the Delphian Society. Specifically, the human-animal hybrid has appeared in acclaimed works of art by figures such as Francis Bacon. Additional famous mythological hybrids include the Egyptian god of death, named Anubis, and the fox-like Japanese beings that are called Kitsune.\n\nWhen looked at scientifically, outside of a fictional and/or mythical context, the real-life creation of human-animal hybrids has served as a subject of legal, moral, and technological debate in the context of recent advances in genetic engineering. Defined by the magazine \"H+\" as \"genetic alterations that are blendings [sic] of animal and human forms\", such hybrids may be referred by other names occasionally such as \"para-humans\". They may additionally may be called \"humanized animals\". Technically speaking, they are also related to \"cybrids\" (cytoplasmic hybrids), with \"cybrid\" cells featuring foreign human nuclei inside of them being a topic of interest. Possibly, a real-world human-animal hybrid may be an entity formed from either a human egg fertilized by a nonhuman sperm or a nonhuman egg fertilized by a human sperm. While at first being a concept in the likes of legends and thought experiments, the first stable human-animal chimeras (not hybrids but related) to actually exist were first created by Shanghai Second Medical University scientists in 2003, the result of having fused human cells with rabbit eggs. As well, a U.S. patent has notably been granted for a mouse chimera with a human immune system.\n\nIn terms of scientific ethics, restrictions on the creation of human–animal hybrids have proved a controversial matter in multiple countries. While the state of Arizona banned the practice altogether in 2010, a proposal on the subject that sparked some interest in the United States Senate from 2011 to 2012 ended up going nowhere. Although the two concepts are not strictly related, discussions of experimentation into blended human and animal creatures has paralleled the discussions around embryonic stem-cell research (the 'stem cell controversy'). The creation of genetically modified organisms for a multitude of purposes has taken place in the modern world for decades, examples being specifically designed foodstuffs made to have features such as higher crop yields through better disease resistance.\n\nDespite the legal and moral controversy over the possible real-life making of such beings, then President George W. Bush even speaking on the subject in his 2006 State of the Union, the concept of humanoid creatures with hybrid characteristics from animals, played in a dramatic and sensationalized fashion, has continued to be a popular element of fictional media in the digital age. Examples include \"Splice\", a 2009 movie about experimental genetic research, and \"The Evil Within\", a survival horror video game released in 2014 in which the protagonist fights grotesque hybrid creatures among other enemies.\n\nBeings displaying a mixture of human and animal traits while also having a similarly blended appearance have played a vast and varied role in multiple traditions around the world. Artist and scholar Pietro Gaietto has written that \"representations of human-animal hybrids always have their origins in religion\". In \"successive traditions they may change in meaning but they still remain within spiritual culture\", Gaietto has argued, when looking back in an evolution-minded point of view. The beings show up in both Greek and Roman mythology, with various elements of ancient Egyptian society ebbing and flowing into those cultures in particular. Prominent examples in ancient Egyptian religion, featuring some of the earliest such hybrid beings, include the canine-like god of death known as Anubis and the lion-like Sphinx. Other instances of these types of characters include figures within both Chinese and Japanese mythology. The observation of interspecies friendships within the animal kingdom, as well as the bonds existing between humans and their pets, have been a source of the appeal in such stories.\n\nA prominent hybrid figure that's internationally known is the mythological Greek figure of Pan. A deity that rules over and symbolizes the untamed wild, he helps express the inherent beauty of the natural world as the Greeks saw things. He specifically received reverence by ancient hunters, fishermen, shepherds, and other groups with a close connection to nature. Pan is a Satyr who possesses the hindquarters, legs, and horns of a goat while otherwise being essentially human in appearance; stories of his encounters with different gods, humans, and others have been a part of popular culture in several different cultures for many years. The human-animal hybrid has appeared in acclaimed works of art by figures such as Francis Bacon, also being mentioned in poetic pieces such as in John Fletcher's writings.\n\nIn Chinese mythology, the figure of Chu Pa-chieh undergoes a personal journey in which he gives up wickedness for virtue. After causing a disturbance in heaven from his licentious actions, he is exiled to Earth. By mistake, he enters the womb of a sow and ends up being born as a half-man/half-pig entity. With the head and ears of a pig coupled with a human body, his already animal-like sense of selfishness from his past life remains. Killing and eating his mother as well as devouring his brothers, he makes his way to a mountain hideout, spending his days preying on unwary travelers unlucky enough to cross his path. However, the exhortations of the kind goddess Kuan Yin, journeying in China, persuade him to seek a nobler path, and his life's journey and the side of goodness proceeds on such that he even is ordained a priest by the goddess herself. Remarking on the character's role in the religious novel \"Journey to the West\", where the being first appears, professor Victor H. Mair has commented that \"[p]ig-human hybrids represent descent and the grotesque, a capitulation to the basest appetites\" rather than \"self-improvement\".\n\nSeveral hybrid entities have long played a major role in Japanese media and in traditional beliefs within the country. For example, a warrior god known as Amida received worship as a part of Japanese mythology for many years; he possessed a generally humanoid appearance while having a canine-like head. However, the god's devotional popularity fell in about the middle of the 19th century. A Tanuki resembles a raccoon or badger, but its shape-shifting talents allow it to turn into humans for the purposes of trickery, such as impersonating Buddhist monks. The fox-like creatures known as Kitsune also possess similar powers, and stories abound of them tricking human men into marriage by turning into seductive women.\n\nOther examples include characters in ancient Anatolia and Mesopotamia. The latter region has had the tradition of a malevolent human-animal hybrid deity in Pazuzu, the demon featuring a humanoid shape yet having grotesque features such as sharp talons. The character picked up revived attention when an interpretation of it appeared in William Peter Blatty's 1971 novel \"The Exorcist\" and the Academy Award winning 1973 film adaption of the same name, with the demon possessing the body of an innocent young girl. The movie, regarded as one of the greatest horror films of all time, has a prologue in which co-protagonist Father Merrin (Max von Sydow) visits an archaeological dig in Iraq and ominously discovers an old statue of the monstrous being.\n\nMany prominent pieces of children's literature over the past two centuries have featured humanized animal characters, often as protagonists in the stories. In the opinion of popular educator Lucy Sprague Mitchell, the appeal of such mythical and fantastic beings comes from how children desire \"direct\" language \"told in terms of images— visual, auditory, tactile, muscle images\". Another author has remarked that an \"animal costume\" provides \"a way to emphasize or even exaggerate a particular characteristic\". The anthropomorphic characters in the seminal works by English writer Beatrix Potter in particular live an ambiguous situation, having human dress yet displaying many instinctive animal traits. Writing on the popularity of Peter Rabbit, a later author commented that in \"balancing humanized domesticity against wild rabbit foraging, Potter subverted parental authority and its built in hypocrisy\" in Potter's child-centered books. Writer Lisa Fraustino has cited on the subject R.M. Lockley's tongue-in-cheek observation: \"Rabbits are so human. Or is it the other way around— humans are so rabbit?\"\n\nWriter H. G. Wells created his famous work \"The Island of Doctor Moreau\", featuring a mixture of horror and science fiction elements, to promote the anti-vivisection cause as a part of his long-time advocacy for animal rights. Wells' story describes a man stuck on an island ruled over by the titular Dr. Moreau, a morally depraved scientist who has created several human-animal hybrids even by combining parts of other animals. The story has been adapted into film several times, with varying success. The most acclaimed version is the 1932 black-and-white treatment called \"Island of Lost Souls\".\n\nWells himself wrote that \"this story was the response of an imaginative mind to the reminder that humanity is but animal rough-hewn to a reasonable shape and in perpetual internal conflict between instinct and injunction,\" with the scandals surrounding Oscar Wilde being the impetus for the English writer's treatment of themes such as ethics and psychology. Challenging the Victorian era viewpoints of its time, the 1896 work presents a complex situation in which enhancing animals into hybrids involves both terrifying violence and pain as well as appears essentially futile, given the power of raw instinct. A pessimistic view towards the ability of human civilization to live by law-abiding, moral standards for long thus follows.\nThe 1986 horror film \"The Fly\" features a deformed and monstrous human-animal hybrid, played by actor Jeff Goldblum. His character, scientist Seth Brundle, undergoes a teleportation experiment that goes awry and fuses him at a fundamental genetic level with a common fly caught besides him. Brundle experiences drastic mutations as a result that horrify him. Movie critic Gerardo Valero has written that the famous horror work, \"released at the dawn of the AIDS epidemic\", \"was seen by many as a metaphor for the disease\" while also playing on bodily fears about dismemberment and coming apart that human beings inherently share.\n\nThe science fiction film \"Splice\", released 2009, shows scientists mixing together human and animal DNA in the hopes of advancing medical research at the pharmaceutical company that they work at. Calamitous results occur.\n\nThe H.P. Lovecraft inspired movie \"Dagon\", released in 2001, additionally features grotesque hybrid beings. In terms of comic books, examples of fictional human-animal hybrids include the characters in Charles Burns' \"Black Hole\" series. In those comics, a set of teenagers in a 1970s era town become afflicted by a bizarre disease; the sexually transmitted affliction mutates them into monstrous forms.\n\nMultiple video games have featured human-animal hybrids as enemies for the protagonist(s) to defeat, including powerful boss characters. For instance, the 2014 survival horror release \"The Evil Within\" includes grotesque hybrid beings, looking like the undead, attacking main character Detective Sebastian Castellanos. With partners Joseph Oda and Julie Kidman, the protagonist attempts investigate a multiple homicide at a mental hospital yet discovers a mysterious figure who turns the world around them into a living nightmare, Castellanos having to find the truth about the criminal psychopath.\n\nHeroic character examples of human-animal anthropomorphic characters include the two protagonists of the 2002 movie \"The Cat Returns\" (Japanese title: 猫の恩返し), with the animated film featuring a young girl (named \"Haru\") being transformed against her will into a feline-human hybrid and fighting a villainous king of the cats with the help of a dashing male cat companion (known as the \"Baron\") at her side. The English language version of the film features Anne Hathaway and Cary Elwes in the main roles, respectively. The critically acclaimed movie, with a score of 89% from Rotten Tomatoes, was directed by Hiroyuki Morita. In one notable moment, the once-again human Haru confesses to having romantic feelings for the Baron, who responds in an ambiguous manner before leaving (vowing to be there for her again when needed).\n\nBroadly speaking, a hybrid being has one cell line throughout its entire body and came originally from a mix of entities, with different species involved to make a new genetic combination. For instance, a liger has a lion father and a tigress mother, such a creature only existing in captivity. Such hybridization has frequently caused difficult health problems that caregivers for the captive animals struggle with.\n\nA chimera is not the same thing as a hybrid because it is a being composed of two or more genetically distinct cell lines in one entity. The entity does not exist as a member of a separate species but has differing elements inside of it. An animal that has experienced an organ transplant or related surgery involving tissues from a different species is an example.\n\nThroughout past human evolution, hybridization occurred in many different instances, such as cross-breeding between Neanderthals and ancient versions of what are now modern humans. Some scientists have believed that particular genes of the Neanderthal may have been key to ancient humans' adapting to the harsh climates they faced when they left Africa. However, mixing between species in the wild both now and through natural history have generally resulted in sterile offspring, thus being a kind of dead end in reproductive terms.\n\nFor much of modern history, the creation of genetically modified organisms in general was a topic rooted in fiction rather than practical research. This has changed significantly over the past few decades such that a number of plants and animals are commonly subject to genetic engineering for commercial purposes. For example, as of 2013 about 85% of the corn grown in the US as well as about 90% of its canola crops have been genetically modified. As well, many Americans that have had cardiovascular surgery have had heart valves initially from pigs used in their procedures.\n\nIssues relating to possible human-animal hybrids outside of a fictional, historical, or mythic context but as real, engineered beings received major international attention in 2003, after some Chinese scientists at the Shanghai Second Medical University managed to successfully fuse human cells with rabbit eggs. The embryos formed reportedly were the first stable human-animal chimeras in existence. Research in similar areas continued into 2004 and 2005, with the topic picking up coverage from publications such as \"National Geographic News\". The National Academy of Sciences soon began to look into the ethical questions involved. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office additionally stirred interest into the topic by granting a patent request for a genetically modified mouse with a human immune system. Scientists announced in 2017 that they successfully created the first human-animal chimeric embryo. The embryo consisted mostly pig cells and some human cells. Scientists stated that they hope to use this technology to address the shortage of donor organs.\n\nAdvances in genetic engineering have generally caused a large amount of debates and discussion in the fields related to bioethics, and research relating to the hypothetical creation of human-animal hybrids in the future has been no exception. The technical analyses of intermingling human-based and animal-based genetic material are ongoing; the ethical, moral, and legal issues arising from actual research using chimeras (rather than hybrids per se) at the moment also touch more speculative concerns as well. While laws against the creation of hybrid beings have been proposed in U.S. states and in the U.S. Congress, several scientists have argued that legal barriers might go too far and prohibit medically beneficial studies into human modification. Although the two topics are not strictly related, the debates involving the creation of human-animal hybrids have paralleled that of the debates around the stem-cell research controversy.\n\nThe question of what line exists between a 'human' being and a 'non-human' being has been a difficult one for many researchers to answer. While animals having one percent or less of their cells originally coming from humans may clearly appear to be in the same boat as other animals, no consensus exists on how to think about beings in a genetic middle ground that have something like an even mix. \"I don't think anyone knows in terms of crude percentages how to differentiate between humans and nonhumans,\" U.S. patent office official John Doll has stated. Critics of increased government restrictions include scientists such as Dr. Douglas Kniss, head of the Laboratory of PeriNatal Research at Ohio State University, who has remarked that formal laws aren't the best option since the \"notion of animal–human hybrids is very complex.\" He's also argued that their creation is inherently \"not the kind of thing we support\" in his kind of research since scientists should \"want to respect human life\". \"There are chimeras out there that serve very valuable purposes in medical research, such as mice that make human antibodies,\" Michael Werner, the chief of policy for the Biotechnology Industry Organization, has commented.\n\nIn contrast, notable socio-economic theorist Jeremy Rifkin has expressed opposition to research that creates beings crossing species boundaries, arguing that it interferes with the fundamental 'right to exist' possessed by each animal species. \"One doesn't have to be religious or into animal rights to think this doesn't make sense,\" he has argued when expressing support for anti-chimera and anti-hybrid legislation. As well, William Cheshire, associate professor of neurology at the Mayo Clinic's Florida branch, has called the issue \"unexplored biologic territory\" and advocated for a \"moral threshold of human neural development\" to restrict the destroying a human embryo to obtain cell material and/or the creation of an organism that's partly human and partly animal.\" He has said, \"We must be cautious not to violate the integrity of humanity or of animal life over which we have a stewardship responsibility\".\n\nIn the U.S., efforts into creating a hybrid entity appeared to be legal when the topic first came up. The developmental biologist Stuart Newman, a professor at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., applied for a patent on a human-animal chimera in 1997 as a challenge to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the U.S. Congress, motivated by his moral and scientific opposition to the notion that living things can be patented at all. Prior legal precedent had established that genetically engineered entities in general could be patented, even if they were based on beings occurring in nature.\n\nAfter a seven-year process, Newman's patent finally received a flat rejection. The legal process had created a paper trail of arguments, giving Newman what he considered a victory. \"The Washington Post\" ran an article on the controversy that stated that it had raised \"profound questions about the differences-- and similarities-- between humans and other animals, and the limits of treating animals as property.\" President George W. Bush brought up the topic in his 2006 State of the Union Address, in which he called for the prohibition of \"human cloning in all its forms\", \"creating or implanting embryos for experiments\", \"creating \"human-animal hybrids\"\", and also \"buying, selling, or patenting human embryos\". He argued, \"A hopeful society has institutions of science and medicine that do not cut ethical corners and that recognize the matchless value of every life.\" He also stated that humanity \"should never be discarded, devalued or put up for sale.\"\n\nA 2005 appropriations bill passed by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Bush contained specific wording forbidding any patents on humans or human embryos. In terms of outright bans on hybrid research in the first place, a measure came up in the 110th Congress entitled the \"Human-Animal Hybrid Prohibition Act of 2008\". Politician Chris Smith (R, NJ-4) introduced it on April 24, 2008. The text of the proposed act stated that \"human dignity and the integrity of the human species are compromised\" if such hybrids exist and set up a punishment of imprisonment for up to ten years as well as a fine of over one million dollars. Though attracting support from many co-sponsors such as then Representatives Mary Fallin, Duncan Hunter, Joseph R. Pitts, and Rick Renzi among others, the Act failed to get through Congress.\n\nA related proposal had come up in the U.S. Senate the prior year, the \"Human–Animal Hybrid Prohibition Act of 2007\", and it also had failed. That effort was proposed by then Senator Sam Brownback (R, KS) on November 15, 2007. Featuring the same language as the later measure in the House, its bipartisan group of cosponsors included then Senators Tom Coburn, Jim DeMint, and Mary Landrieu.\n\nA localized measure designed to ban the creation of hybrid entities came up in the state of Arizona in 2010. The proposal was signed into law by then Governor Jan Brewer. Its sponsor stated that it was needed to clarify important \"ethical boundaries\" in research.\n\n"}
{"id": "33548237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33548237", "title": "IRIS (biosensor)", "text": "IRIS (biosensor)\n\nInterferometric reflectance imaging sensor (IRIS), formerly known as the spectral reflectance imaging biosensor (SRIB), is a system that can be used as a biosensing platform capable of high-throughput multiplexing of protein–protein, protein–DNA, and DNA–DNA interactions without the use of any fluorescent labels. The sensing surface is prepared by robotic spotting of biological probes that are immobilized on functionalized Si/SiO substrates. IRIS is capable of quantifying biomolecular mass accumulated on the surface.\n\nTo perform a measurement, the sample is illuminated with multiple different wavelengths from either a tunable laser or different color LEDs; typically speaking, a relatively narrow bandwidth optical source. The reflection intensity is imaged using a CCD or CMOS camera. By using interferometric techniques, nanometer changes can be detected.\n\nApplications for IRIS include microarray format immunoassays, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) detection, pathogen detection and bio-defense monitoring, kinetic analysis of biomolecular interactions, and general biomolecular interaction studies for research applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "31479496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31479496", "title": "James M. Acton", "text": "James M. Acton\n\nJames M. Acton is a British academic and scientist. He is a senior associate of the Nuclear Policy Program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.\n\nActon was awarded his PhD in theoretical physics at Cambridge University.\n\nActon was a member of the faculty of the Department of War Studies at King's College, London.\n\nActon’s research projects have included analyses of IAEA safeguards in Iran, verifying disarmament in North Korea and preventing novel forms of radiological terrorism.\n\nIn the context of the Fukushima I nuclear accidents, Acton was able to distill a succinct analysis which was widely reported. \n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about James Acton, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 7 works in 10+ publications in 1 language and 268 library holdings.\n\n"}
{"id": "24047998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24047998", "title": "Jesus in India (book)", "text": "Jesus in India (book)\n\nJesus in India (; \"Masīh Hindustān Meiń\") is a treatise written by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement in 1899. The treatise, which was then published as a book, puts forward the view that Jesus survived crucifixion, left Judea and migrated eastward in order to continue his mission to the 'Lost Tribes of Israel', traveling through Persia and Afghanistan and eventually dying a natural and honourable death in Kashmir at an old age. Ghulam Ahmad applied textual analysis of both the Gospels and Islamic sources – the Quran and \"hadith\" – and also drew upon medical and historical material, including what he claimed were ancient Buddhist records, to argue his case. Although independent modern scholars such as Norbert Klatt (1988) have rejected Ghulam Ahmad's use of these latter sources as misreadings of material unrelated to Jesus.\n\nThe book was completed in 1899 and was partly serialised in the \"Review of Religions\" in 1902-1903. It was published in book form shortly after Ghulam Ahmad’s death in 1908. The first complete English translation was published in 1944.\n\nThe treatise suggests that Jesus, having survived crucifixion, discreetly left Roman jurisdiction for the East, starting his journey from Jerusalem and passing through Nisibis and Persia, eventually reaching Afghanistan where he met the Israelite tribes who had settled there after their escape from the bonds of Nebuchadnezzar centuries before. From here he travelled to Kashmir where some Israelite tribes had also settled and lived there until his death at an old age.\n\nOther authors have suggested that the resemblance between Buddhist and Christian teachings and between the lives of Jesus and Buddha as recorded in their respective scriptures indicate that Buddhist teachings must have reached Palestine been incorporated by Jesus into his own teaching, or that he must have travelled to India pre-crucifixion. Ghulam Ahmad, however, asserts that Jesus reached India only after the crucifixion and that Buddhists later reproduced elements of the Gospels in their scriptures. He argues that Jesus also preached to Buddhist monks, some of whom were originally Jews, who accepted him as a manifestation of the Buddha, the 'promised teacher', and mingled his teachings with Buddha’s. \n\n\"Jesus in India\" also contains claims on the whereabouts of the Lost Tribes of Israel, suggesting that these tribes were scattered throughout Afghanistan, Kashmir, and Western China. It also provides a list of tribes of these regions seeking to trace their Israelite roots.\n\nAhmadiyya literature states that one of Ghulam Ahmad’s disciples, Khalifa Nur Din (or, Noor al-Din) of Jalalpur Jattan, District Gujrat, Pakistan spoke to him about a tomb in Srinagar that was said to be the tomb of a prophet named Yuz Asaf. Ghulam Ahmad instructed him to do some further research into the matter. Nur Din went to Srinagar and stayed there for about four months. He collected information and also obtained the signatures of 556 inhabitants who attested that, according to their traditions, the remains of Jesus Christ lay in the Roza Bal. He also brought back a sketch of the Roza Bal. Thereafter, Ghulam Ahmad decided to send one of his followers, Maulvi Abdullah, to Kashmir to investigate this tomb. Maulvi Abdullah arrived in Kashmir, conducted his investigations, and wrote back to Ghulam Ahmad about his findings. Ghulam Ahmad then published a poster that contained Maulvi Abdullah’s letter, as well as Maulvi Abdullah’s sketch of the Roza Bal.\n\nGhulam Ahmad began studying the local traditions of the people of Kashmir, both oral and written, and discovered that these traditions, as mentioned in the letter from Maulvi Abdullah, referred to the Roza Bal as the tomb of \"Nabi Isa\" (Prophet Jesus). According to this information, the Muslims in that locality did not believe Jesus to be in heaven, as was taught by the orthodox clergy. The Ahmadiyya publication, \"Review of Religions\", recorded this belief in its October, 1909 edition.\nThe claims of the book regarding a journey of Jesus to India are rejected by scholars. The documents used by Ahmad were reviewed by the German indologist Günter Grönbold in \"Jesus in Indien. Das Ende einer Legende\" (Munich, 1985), with Grönbold concluding that Ahmad had misidentified material from the Barlaam and Josaphat texts relating to a Christianized version of the life of Siddhartha Gautama, not of Jesus. Another German scholar Norbert Klatt in \"Lebte Jesus in Indien?\" (1988) examined the same Muslim and Christian source texts and came to the same conclusions as Grönbold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178566", "title": "John Panozzo", "text": "John Panozzo\n\nJohn Anthony Panozzo (September 20, 1948 – July 16, 1996) was an American drummer best known for his work with rock band Styx.\n\nPanozzo grew up in the Roseland neighborhood, the south side of Chicago, Illinois, with his fraternal twin brother, Chuck (born 90 minutes apart). At age 7, the twins took musical lessons from their uncle in which John took an interest in drums and percussion. They attended Catholic school and eventually they were part of a three-piece band in which John played drums and Chuck played guitar. They would play weddings at age 12 and were paid $15 apiece.\n\nThen, in 1961, John, Chuck, and their neighbor, Dennis DeYoung, formed a band called The Tradewinds in which John played drums, Chuck played guitar, and Dennis played the accordion and sang. They played local gigs at bars and began gaining popularity as a garage band on the city's South Side. In 1968, Chuck switched to bass and they added guitarists/vocalists James \"J.Y.\" Young and John Curulewski, changing their name to TW4. The band signed to Wooden Nickel Records and changed their name to Styx.\n\nYears of excessive drinking began to take a toll on his liver. In the mid-1990s, as Styx was about to embark on its first tour with the classic line-up since 1983, John fell seriously ill and began battling cirrhosis of the liver, eventually dying of gastrointestinal hemorrhaging and cirrhosis in Chicago; he was 47 years old.\n\nThe band dedicated their 1996 \"Return to Paradise\" tour to him, and Tommy Shaw, who had earlier replaced Curulewski, wrote the song \"Dear John\" as the band's final tribute to their drummer and friend.\n\nPanozzo used Premier drums during the band's early years then switched to Tama drums by late 1978. He also played Zildjian cymbals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6653612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6653612", "title": "John Redman (physician)", "text": "John Redman (physician)\n\nDr. John Redman (February 22, 1722 – March 19, 1808) was the first president of The College of Physicians of Philadelphia and the medical preceptor of Benjamin Rush.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, after finishing his preparatory education in William Tennent's Log College, he began studying physics with John Kearsley Mitchell, then one of the most eminent physicians of Philadelphia. He began practicing in Bermuda, and continued for several years.\n\nRedman then moved to Europe to further study medicine. He lived one year in Edinburgh, attended lectures and dissections, and visited the hospitals in Paris. He matriculated 6 October 1747 at the University of Leyden and graduated at the same University 15 July 1748. The title description of his thesis is: Dissertatio medica inauguralis De abortu ... - Lugduni Batavorum : Apud Conradum Wishoff, [1748]. - 31 p. ; 24 cm After working for a time at Guy’s Hospital, he returned to America and again settled in Philadelphia, where he soon gained great celebrity. Many of Philadelphia's leading doctors studied under him, including John Morgan, Benjamin Rush, and Caspar Wistar. In 1784 he was elected an elder of the Second Presbyterian Church.\n\nHe was a man of small stature, of good sense and learning, and much respected in his day.\n\nHe became independently wealthy, and retired from business many years before his death. He used to visit his old friends and acquaintances after he became infirm from age, on a fat pony mare. Dr. James Rush says, \"I remember him well hitching her to the turnbuckle of the mansion shutter, so that she always stood on the foot-pavement, where he visited my father, which he made it a point to do once or twice a year. In the rough cutting of his likeness, which was given to me by a member of his family, the hat, wig, nose, mouth, chin, eye, dress, person, expression, and character are admirably true. The mare is not so well done. The doctor retired from practice about 1785, and was known to the public as an antiquated-looking old gentleman. He was usually habited in a broad-skirted dark coat, with long pocket-flaps, buttoned across his under dress, and wearing, in strict conformity to the cut of the coat, a pair of Baron Steuben’s military-shaped boots, coming above the knees.\" Mr. Watson says, for riding-habit, \"his hat flapped before and cocked up smartly behind, covering a full-bottomed powdered wig, in the front of which might be seen an eagle-pointed nose, separating a pair of piercing black eyes, his lips exhibiting, but only now and then, a quick motion, as though at the moment he was endeavoring to extract the essence of a small quid. As thus described in habit and in person, he was to be seen almost daily, in fair weather, mounted on a short, fat, black, switch-tailed mare, and riding for his amusement and exercise, in a brisk racking canter, about the streets and suburbs of the city.\"\n\nHe died of apoplexy, March 19, 1808, in the same house in which he lived for more than half a century, on Second Street, about one-third of a square from Arch, on the west side, next to Dr. Ustick's Baptist Church. He was predeceased by his youngest daughter, in 1806, and his wife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31877407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31877407", "title": "Juan Carlos Sánchez Jr.", "text": "Juan Carlos Sánchez Jr.\n\nJuan Carlos Sánchez Terrones (born January 8, 1991 in Los Mochis, Sinaloa, Mexico) is a Mexican professional boxer and the former IBF Super Flyweight Champion.\n\nHis first loss was to the undefeated Mexican, Daniel Rosas, this bout was for the vacant WBC CABOFE Super Flyweight Championship.\n\nIn December 2010, Juan Carlos beat the undefeated Juan Francisco Estrada at the Polideportivo Centenario in Los Mochis, Sinaloa, Mexico.\n\nOn February 2, 2012 Sánchez upset Rodrigo Guerrero to win the IBF Super Flyweight Championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2738691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2738691", "title": "Karl Binding", "text": "Karl Binding\n\nKarl Ludwig Lorenz Binding (4 June 1841 – 7 April 1920) was a German jurist known as a promoter of the theory of retributive justice. His influential book, \"Die Freigabe der Vernichtung lebensunwerten Lebens\" (\"Allowing the Destruction of Life Unworthy of Living\"), written together with the psychiatrist Alfred Hoche, was used by the Nazis to justify their T-4 Euthanasia Program.\n\nBinding was born in Frankfurt am Main, the third child of Georg Christoph Binding and Dorothea Binding.\n\nIn 1860 Binding moved to Göttingen where he studied history and jurisprudence. After a short stay in Heidelberg, where he won a law prize, he moved back to Göttingen to finish his studies. In 1864 he completed his \"habilitation\" paper in Latin about Roman criminal law and lectured in criminal law at Heidelberg University. Two years later he was appointed professor of law of state and criminal law and procedure in Basel, Switzerland. In the same year he married Marie Luise Wirsing and published \"Das burgundisch-romanische Königreich\" and \"Entwurf eines Strafgesetzbuches für den Norddeutschen Bund\". At this time he also became friends with Johann Jacob Bernoulli - an archaeologist, Jakob Burckhardt - an art historian, and Friedrich Nietzsche - a philosopher. In August 1867 his first son, Rudolf Georg, was born, followed two years later by his second son. Rudolf G Binding later became a famous writer. Karl Binding and his wife were to have one more son and two daughters. In 1869 his family moved to Freiburg, and Binding volunteered to fight in the Franco-Prussian War. Although his lack of military training meant he was unable to serve as a soldier, he was accepted as an orderly and posted to the front, serving in a field hospital. In 1872 he took on a post at the Reichs University in Straßburg. In the same year he moved to Leipzig University, where he was to continue to work for the next 40 years. From 1879 until to 1900 Binding worked in the district court of Leipzig. After becoming Leipzig University's rector and receiving his emeritus, he moved to Freiburg, where his wife died only a few days later at 71 years old. In 1918, during the First World War, Binding left Germany to lecture German soldiers in Macedonia and Bulgarian intellectuals in Sofia.\n\nThis was the title of one of Binding's most infamous books, co-written by the psychiatrist, Alfred Hoche. The book was divided into two parts, the first written by Binding, the second by Hoche. Binding discussed the consequences that the legal status of suicide would have on euthanasia and the legality of killing the mentally ill. Hoche concentrated on the relationship of doctors to their patients and the seriously ill. (See Alfred Hoche.) Binding and Hoche are noted for the influence their work had on the Nazis and especially the Aktion T4 Euthanasia Program.\n\nIn Binding's own interpretation of the law in 1920s Germany, suicide or attempting suicide was not illegal and should be treated as being within the law. This would mean that no-one would have the right to stop a person from killing themselves and that a person who wants to die would not even have the right to defend themselves against such an attempt.\n\nBinding goes on to assume that the right to suicide would then also have to be transferable to another person; meaning that a person also has the right to let someone else cause their death if they so wish. In this case, anyone that has killed a seriously ill person, acting on the behalf of that person, has acted within the law.\n\nBinding's second possible interpretation of German law meant that suicide was neither legal nor illegal. He argued that the law concerning murder only referred to the killing of other people and not to suicide. In this case suicide would be perfectly legal, but euthanasia, involving the killing of another person, even with their permission would have to be treated as murder.\n\nAgain if suicide is not illegal, then no-one can stop another person from killing themselves. Binding noted that in reality, the majority of people who prevent a suicide attempt are not usually prosecuted and that most people who are prevented from killing themselves do not make a second attempt. He was of the opinion that in a case of prosecution due to euthanasia, the court should differentiate between the taking of a healthy life and a terminally ill person.\n\nBinding defined euthanasia as occurring when a person gives a terminally ill person, with the intention of reducing pain, a medicine which either immediately or eventually leads to that person's painless death.\n\nFor a case of euthanasia to stay within the law, the medicine must enable the person to die painlessly at or around the same time as they would have otherwise died. In this way the doctor is simply exchanging the cause of death, from a painful one caused by illness to a painless one caused by a medicament. Any killing which involves the shortening of a life was seen as unlawful.\n\nBinding claimed the killing of the terminally ill was not an exception to the law against murder but was a lawful act in the interests of the patient. It put an end to their terrible suffering and should not be seen as a killing but as a reduction in their suffering. Binding did not think it necessary to obtain permission from a person who was to be killed, but if they were able to and expressed the wish to live, that wish must be respected.\n\nBinding split the group of people which he wanted to be considered for killing into three groups, \"two larger ones and a middle group\".\n\n\nThe person does not have to be in pain, it is enough that they are in a helpless condition and that their condition is incurable. It is also irrelevant if the person could be saved in another situation.\n\n\nBinding describes these people as having neither the will to die, nor the will to live. They are \"living pointless lives and are a burden for society and their families\". He also believed it to be unfair on carers to keep such “lives unworthy of living” alive.\n\n\n\"Their killing should not be seen as a killing as such but as saving the person from a terrible end.\"\n\nBinding could not work out a general rule for the killing of this group. Importantly he accepted that many killings of these people would actually be unjustifiable, although this would only be evident after death. He believed that the law would treat such killings as manslaughter. This led him to argue for a new law to allow for such killings which according with his views would have been \"justifiable\".\n\nBinding wanted a committee to decide on a killing on a case by case basis. The committee was to consist of a doctor, a psychiatrist or other doctor and a jurist to check that the committee was acting within the law. The committee would be able to call witnesses and was also to have a chairperson - without voting rights - to run the proceedings. Neither the applicant nor their doctor could be members of the committee. An applicant could represent themselves, be represented by their doctor, family or anyone they had asked. Binding was of the opinion \"that it is quite possible for a person under the age of 18 or for the mentally ill\" to decide whether they want to live or die.\n\nAfter a committee had checked that a person fulfils the criteria, it could make a decision. For a decision to be final, it would have to be agreed upon by all three parties and must be made purely out of pity and the killing must be done painlessly. Any person could withdraw their application to be killed at any time, including after the decision had been finalised. In the case of an unconscious person or the mentally ill, Binding allowed the final decision to be made by the mother. If the family were willing to take on the person themselves or pay the costs of hospitalisation, the person would not be killed. In the case of a conscious person the person's wishes were to be respected regardless of the interests or requests of the family.\n\nBinding also wanted to allow for killings that were not controlled by a committee. Such a killing would only be legal if the person killing had either acted with permission, or on the assumption that an unconscious person wanted to die. After the death a committee must be able to be satisfied that the killing fulfilled all of the usual requirements.\n\nBinding argued that although there is always a possibility of killing the wrong person, \"that which is good and reasonable must take place irrespective of any possibility of error\". He saw the risk of losing a life as unimportant because \"humanity constantly loses so many lives by mistake, that just one more would hardly make a difference\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42184154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42184154", "title": "Lady of the Dunes", "text": "Lady of the Dunes\n\nLady of the Dunes (also known as Lady in the Dunes) is the nickname for an unidentified woman discovered on July 26, 1974 in the Race Point Dunes, Provincetown, Massachusetts. Her body was exhumed in 1980, 2000, and 2013 in efforts to identify her and her murderer; to date, these efforts have been unsuccessful. The case was featured on the television series \"Haunting Evidence\" in 2006.\n\nA teenage girl found the woman's body July 26, 1974. The remains were just yards away from a road, and had a significant amount of insect activity. Two sets of footprints led to the body, and tire tracks were found from the scene. The woman may have died two weeks before her body was found.\n\nThe victim was face-down on half of a beach blanket. There was no sign of a struggle; police theorized she either knew her killer or had been asleep when she died. A blue bandanna and pair of Wrangler jeans were under her head. She had long auburn or red hair, pulled back into a ponytail with a gold-flecked elastic band. Her toenails were painted pink.\n\nPolice determined the woman was approximately tall (initially believed to have been 5'8\"), weighed , and had an athletic build. She also had dental work – including crowns – worth $5,000-$10,000; dentists call it the \"New York style\" of dental work. Several of her teeth had been removed. One hand and one forearm were missing. Most sources say she was between 25 and 40 years old. However, she could have been as young as 20 or as old as 49.\n\nThe woman was nearly decapitated, possibly from strangulation; one side of her head had been crushed with (possibly) a military-entrenching type of tool. This skull injury was officially what killed her. There were also signs of sexual assault, likely postmortem.\n\nSome investigators feel the missing teeth, hand and forearm indicate the killer wanted to hide either the victim's identity or their own.\n\nThe woman was buried in October 1974 after the case went cold. Currently, one of the case investigators is raising funds for a new casket because the original one has deteriorated.\n\nPolice pored through thousands of missing-person cases and a list of approved vehicles driven through the area; no matches were found. At the scene, the sand and beach blanket were not disturbed. No other evidence was found (besides the jeans, bandanna, blanket and ponytail holder) despite extensive searches of the surrounding dunes.\n\nThe first facial reconstruction of the woman was created with clay in 1979. Her remains were exhumed in 1980 for examination; no new clues were uncovered (although the skull was not buried at the time). The body was exhumed again in March 2000 for DNA. In May 2010, her skull was placed through a CT scanner that generated images that were then used by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children for another reconstruction.\n\nIn 1987, a Canadian woman told a friend that she saw her father strangle a woman in Massachusetts around 1972. Police attempted to locate the woman but were unsuccessful. Another woman told police the reconstruction of the victim looked like her sister, who disappeared in Boston in 1974.\n\nInvestigators also followed a lead involving Rory Gene Kesinger, who would have been 25 years old at the time of the murder (she broke out of jail in 1973). Authorities saw a resemblance between Kesinger and the victim. However, DNA from Kesinger's mother did not match the victim.\n\nTwo other missing women, Francis Ewalt of Montana and Vicke Lamberton of Massachusetts have also been ruled out.\n\nIn August 2015, speculation arose that Lady of the Dunes may have been an extra in the 1975 film \"Jaws\" (filmed in Massachusetts in 1974). Joe Hill, the son of horror author Stephen King, brought this to police attention. Hill had learned of the case after reading \"The Skeleton Crew: How Amateur Sleuths are Solving America's Coldest Cases\" just weeks before. Hill told an FBI investigator that during the film's \"July 4th Crowd Arrives\" sequence, he saw a woman resembling reconstructions of the victim. She is wearing a blue bandana and jeans, similar to those found with the body.\n\n\"Jaws\" was shot between May and October 1974. Principal photography was mainly in Menemsha on Martha's Vineyard, about south of Provincetown.\n\nAlthough a lead investigator has noted interest in this, others have described it as \"far-fetched\" and \"wild speculation.\"\n\nIn 1981, investigators learned a woman who resembled the victim was seen with mobster Whitey Bulger around the time the woman presumably died. Bulger was known for removing his victims' teeth. A link to Bulger has not been proven.\n\nTony Costa, a serial killer in the area, was an initial suspect, but later eliminated. Costa died on May 12, 1974. The victim was found in July 1974.\n\nSerial killer Hadden Clark confessed to the murder, stating \"I could have told the police what her name was, but after they beat the shit out of me, I wasn't going to tell them shit. ... This murder is still unsolved and what the police are looking for is in my grandfather's garden.\" Authorities say Clark suffers from paranoid schizophrenia, a condition which may lead someone to confess falsely to crimes.\n\nIn 2004, Clark sent a letter to a friend stating that he had killed a woman on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. He also sent two drawings: one of a handless, naked woman sprawled on her stomach, and another of a map pointing to where the body was found.\n\nIn April 2000, Clark led police to a spot where he claimed he had buried two victims 20 years before. He also stated that he had murdered several others in various states between the 1970s and the 1990s.\n\n"}
{"id": "105016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105016", "title": "Langton's ant", "text": "Langton's ant\n\nLangton's ant is a two-dimensional universal Turing machine with a very simple set of rules but complex emergent behavior. It was invented by Chris Langton in 1986 and runs on a square lattice of black and white cells. The universality of Langton's ant was proven in 2000. The idea has been generalized in several different ways, such as turmites which add more colors and more states.\n\nSquares on a plane are colored variously either black or white. We arbitrarily identify one square as the \"ant\". The ant can travel in any of the four cardinal directions at each step it takes. The \"ant\" moves according to the rules below:\n\nLangton's ant can also be described as a cellular automaton, where the grid is colored black or white and the \"ant\" square has one of eight different colors assigned to encode the combination of black/white state and the current direction of motion of the ant.\n\nThese simple rules lead to complex behavior. Three distinct modes of behavior are apparent, when starting on a completely white grid.\n\n\nAll finite initial configurations tested eventually converge to the same repetitive pattern, suggesting that the \"highway\" is an attractor of Langton's ant, but no one has been able to prove that this is true for all such initial configurations. It is only known that the ant's trajectory is always unbounded regardless of the initial configuration – this is known as the Cohen–Kung theorem.\n\nIn 2000, Gajardo et al. showed a construction that calculates any boolean circuit using the trajectory of a single instance of Langton's ant. Additionally, it would be possible to simulate an arbitrary Turing machine using the ant's trajectory for computation. This means that the ant is capable of universal computation.\n\nGreg Turk and Jim Propp considered a simple extension to Langton's ant where instead of just two colors, more colors are used. The colors are modified in a cyclic fashion. A simple naming scheme is used: for each of the successive colors, a letter \"L\" or \"R\" is used to indicate whether a left or right turn should be taken. Langton's ant has the name \"RL\" in this naming scheme.\n\nSome of these extended Langton's ants produce patterns that become symmetric over and over again. One of the simplest examples is the ant \"RLLR\". One sufficient condition for this to happen is that the ant's name, seen as a cyclic list, consists of consecutive pairs of identical letters \"LL\" or \"RR\" (the term \"cyclic list\" indicates that the last letter may pair with the first one). The proof involves Truchet tiles.\n\nThe hexagonal grid permits up to six different rotations, which are notated here as N (no change), R1 (60° clockwise), R2 (120° clockwise), U (180°), L2 (120° counter-clockwise), L1 (60° counter-clockwise).\n\nA further extension of Langton's ants is to consider multiple states of the Turing machine – as if the ant itself has a color that can change. These ants are called turmites, a contraction of \"Turing machine termites\". Common behaviours include the production of highways, chaotic growth and spiral growth.\n\nMultiple Langton's ants can co-exist on the 2D plane, and their interactions give rise to complex, higher-order automata that collectively build a wide variety of organized structures. There is no need for conflict resolution, as every ant sitting on the same square wants to make the same change to the tape. There is a YouTube video showing these multiple ant interactions.\n\nMultiple turmites can co-exist on the 2D plane as long as there is a rule for what happens when they meet. Ed Pegg, Jr. considered ants that can turn for example \"both\" left and right, splitting in two and annihilating each other when they meet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20315869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20315869", "title": "Let's Play Pet Hospitals", "text": "Let's Play Pet Hospitals\n\nLet's Play Pet Hospitals is a pet care simulation video game produced by Portuguese studio Biodroid Productions and published by Deep Silver for the Nintendo DS and Microsoft Windows.\n\n\"Let's Play Pet Hospitals\" is full of interesting facts regarding different kinds of pets and their specific needs.\n\nAnimals which have either run away or been abandoned, and may therefore be undernourished, ungroomed, and sick, are brought to the pet hospital. There, the player will need to take care of them and find them new homes, or return them to their original owners. PC or Nintendo DS vets will receive money for successful treatment, advising customers, and thus finding good homes for the pets under their care. This money can be used to build new condos and improve the pet center, for example by painting the walls, renewing the flooring and purchasing new furniture, or even clothes for the player character.\n\n"}
{"id": "245879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245879", "title": "Lew Brown", "text": "Lew Brown\n\nLew Brown (born Louis Brownstein, , December 10, 1893 – February 5, 1958) was a lyricist for popular songs in the United States. During World War I and the Roaring Twenties, he wrote lyrics for several of the top Tin Pan Alley composers, especially Albert Von Tilzer. Brown was one third of a successful songwriting and music publishing team with Buddy DeSylva and Ray Henderson from 1925 until 1931. Brown also wrote or co-wrote many Broadway shows and Hollywood films. Among his most-popular songs are \"Button Up Your Overcoat\", \"Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree\", \"Life Is Just a Bowl of Cherries\", \"That Old Feeling\", and \"The Birth of the Blues\".\n\nBrown was born December 10, 1893, in Odessa, Russian Empire, part of today's Ukraine. When he was five, his family immigrated to the United States and settled in New York City. He attended DeWitt Clinton High School but, at the suggestion of a teacher, he left to pursue his songwriting career without graduating.\n\nLew Brown was married first to Sylvia Fiske, then to Catherine \"June\" Brown until his death. He had two daughters from his first marriage, Naomi Brown Greif and Arlyne Brown Mulligan. The latter was married to the prominent jazz saxophonist Gerry Mulligan.\n\nBrown started writing for Tin Pan Alley in 1912 and collaborated with established composers, like Albert Von Tilzer. Two of their well-known works that year were \"(I'm Going Back to) Kentucky Sue\" and \"I'm the Lonesomest Gal in Town\". Brown then wrote a string of popular World War I songs during 1914–1918, teaming with Von Tilzer, Al Harriman, and other composers.\n\nIn 1925, Brown formed his most-successful songwriting partnership with Buddy DeSylva and Ray Henderson. Their cheerful hits, such as \"Button Up Your Overcoat\" and \"The Birth of the Blues\", earned lasting appreciation for \"the rich variety of verbal mosaics\" and \"the suggestive imagery that was their trademark\". DeSylva left in 1931 but Brown and Henderson continued scoring Broadway shows. Brown also worked with other composers, like Sammy Fain. \"Brown in 1939 estimated that he had written or collaborated on about 7,000 songs.\"\n\nBrown wrote the lyrics to \"Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree\" (1942), which appeared in the film \"Private Buckaroo\". Recordings by Glenn Miller and by the Andrews Sisters popularized the song with World War II soldiers and radio audiences. Not long after this hit, Brown retired from songwriting.\n\nBrown and Fain's \"That Old Feeling\" (1937) was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song. \"Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree\" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame. Von Tilzer, DeSylva, Brown and Henderson were all included in the inaugural class of the Songwriters Hall of Fame.\n\nThe DeSylva, Brown and Henderson songwriting team was the subject of the 1956 musical biopic: \"The Best Things in Life Are Free\". Brown was portrayed by Ernest Borgnine.\n\nBrown died of a heart attack at home in New York City on February 5, 1958.\n\n\nTheater source: Playbill Vault\n\n\nPosthumous credits\n\n"}
{"id": "45427813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45427813", "title": "List of unidentified murder victims in Pennsylvania", "text": "List of unidentified murder victims in Pennsylvania\n\nIn Pennsylvania, there are a number of murder victims, in the category of unidentified decedents, whose identities have yet to be found. In most of these cases, their murderer or murderers have also gone undiscovered.\n\nA young boy found in 1957. He died from severe blunt force trauma visible across his body.\n\nA young, pregnant woman who was found murdered and dismembered in 1976.\n\nThe skeleton of a man aged twenty-five to forty was discovered on July 25, 1986, in Washington Township, Jefferson County, Pennsylvania, near a strip mine. He was determined to be white, although he may have had Asian heritage. His skull was found several feet away from the rest of the body and had wire around the neck area, which indicated he was strangled. The right hand was never recovered and the fingers on the left were also missing. It appeared that the killer or killers had attempted to prevent his identification by doing this as well as burning the man's clothing on top of the head. He had light brown hair and was estimated to be around five feet eight inches tall at around 170 to 180 pounds at the time of death.\n\nA female whose body was found in 1979. The cause of this person's death is unknown, but is ruled as suspicious.\n\nA female's body found in Monroe, Clarion County, Pennsylvania, on July 22, 1990, the death blow being blunt-force trauma to the head. Additionally, the right leg was broken. She was between fifteen and twenty-two (although some sources report her being as old as forty). She had very healthy teeth and had long brown hair and had one baby tooth still in place on the top set of teeth. The victim wore no bra, shoes or socks, which may have been taken by the killer. In each pocket of the woman's jeans was a single penny, which led to her nickname. The other clothing worn was a vest over a black shirt reading \"Stop Light of California\". She was not believed to have come from the area where she was discovered.\n\nA female skeleton was found at the edge of a strip mine on December 20, 1994, near Sugarloaf, Luzerne County, Pennsylvania. The remains had been left on the surface of the ground, and were estimated to have been at the location for up to two years. Despite the cause of death not being apparent upon examination, the case is being investigated as a homicide. The woman was between 34 and 47 years old at the time of death, and between at 5 feet 1 to 5 feet 4 inches in height. With the body, a yellow shirt, reading \"kiss my ass, I'm on vacation,\" women's underwear, sweatpants and boy's shoes were found. She had borne at least one child, and likely suffered from back pain and may have walked with a limp when alive. She also had a significant number of missing teeth, and a fragment of metal unrelated to dental work was found in her jaw.\n\nOn July 11, 1995 the dismembered remains of a female aged seventeen to forty were found in East Caln Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania. The torso was discovered first, wrapped in bedding and wax and placed into a reddish-colored suitcase, later traced to Kmart. Wire and tape were used to fasten the suitcase, which was disposed of near a river inside of a garbage bag. The young woman had been subjected to some violence, as she had bruises on her body. She had also consumed alcohol although not enough to intoxicate her. Her age was estimated to be between seventeen and twenty-five, although other reports state she was between eighteen and forty. The female was deceased for several days, up to one week, prior to the discovery. She may have been Hispanic with a light complexion, but otherwise appeared to be white. The victim had brown hair and eyes, was approximately four feet eleven to five feet three inches and weighed between 120 and 140 pounds. Her legs were not found until January 29 of the following year in Cores Creek State Park, which had been disposed of in trash bags. The legs were not genetically tested to match the body but did, however, fit into the other parts of the remains. Other bags were found at the scene containing various amounts of women's clothing. The case was featured on \"America's Most Wanted\" in 2001.\n\nOn October 28, 1995, the body of an African-American male aged sixteen to nineteen was found in Fairmount Park in Philadelphia, Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania. He had been shot twice in the head, and had been dead for approximately three days prior to being found. His black hair was styled in cornrows and there was a scar on his right arm. He had brown eyes; he was five feet eleven inches tall and weighed 163 pounds. He wore a red tee shirt, a gray hooded pullover Sergio Tacchin jacket, boxer shorts, a black belt decorated with medallions and black high-top Reebok shoes. Both his tee shirt and underwear were made by the Fruit of the Loom company. His teeth were well cared for, although no signs of any dental treatment were found.\n\nThe body of a thirty- to fifty-year-old man was found on November 3, 1995 (although he likely died in 1994) in Somerset County, Pennsylvania, close to the border of Maryland. He had been shot twice in the head, likely around a year before the remains were found. He had possibly been fairly well-to-do, as the body was dressed in a pair of \"Genuine Country Road\" brand pants that cost around $200 when new, and he had an expensive partial dental plate replacing missing teeth. He was approximately 5 feet 6 to 5 feet 10 inches in height and weighed between 150 and 170 pounds. Despite multiple facial reconstructions, identification has thus far been unsuccessful.\n\nIn Strasburg Township, Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, the body of a newborn girl was found concealed with a plastic bag in a burn barrel on the afternoon of December 31, 2003. The baby had been born alive and then had her throat cut and her umbilical cord was not removed from her body. She was determined to be white and to not have been of incestuous ancestry. There was also a slim possibility that she was from the Amish settlement she was located in, as genetic testing indicated. It is presumed that the baby's mother was under twenty years old and may have been native to the area, although it is possible that she was not. A local gas station may have contained evidence from the child's birth, although it is not certain if it is related to the case.\n\nA black female with Hispanic characteristics was discovered in a wooded area on December 29, 2008, in Rochester Mills, Indiana County, Pennsylvania. She had been murdered years before, possibly between 1993 and 2003. She had been shot in the back of her head and was later dismembered with a saw, as evidence on the bones suggested. The victim was found with a pair of possibly gray shorts that had elastic in their waistline. The woman was estimated to be between thirty and forty years old at the time of death and was between four feet nine inches and five feet nine inches tall. Because of the state of her body, the weight was not possible to determine or estimate. The Jane Doe had a partial denture on the top set of her teeth and her hands and feet were not recovered.\n\n"}
{"id": "44158293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44158293", "title": "Malnutrition in Peru", "text": "Malnutrition in Peru\n\nMalnutrition is a condition that affects bodily capacities of an individual, including growth, pregnancy, lactation, resistance to illness, and cognitive and physical development. Malnutrition is commonly used in reference to undernourishment, or a condition in which an individual's diet does not include sufficient calories and proteins to sustain physiological needs, but it also includes overnourishment, or the consumption of excess calories.\n\nOther terms exist to describe the specific effects of malnutrition on the body. Stunting refers to low height for age with reference to a population of healthy children. It is an indicator of chronic malnutrition, and high stunting levels are associated with poor socioeconomic conditions and a greater risk of exposure to adverse conditions such as illness. Wasting refers to low weight for height with reference to a population of healthy children. In most cases, it reflects a recent and acute weight loss associated with famine or disease.\n\nUNICEF statistics collected between 2008 and 2012 indicate that the level of stunting in Peru is 19.5%. The percentage of the population that is underweight is 4.1%, and 9.8% of the population is overweight. The physical effects of stunting are permanent, as children are unlikely to regain the loss in height and corresponding weight. Stunting can also have adverse effects on cognitive development, school performance, adult productivity and income, and maternal reproductive outcome. The problem of stunting is most prevalent in the highland and jungle regions of Peru, disproportionately affecting rural areas within these regions.\n\nMajor causes of malnutrition in Peru include food insecurity, diet, poverty, and agricultural productivity, with a combination of factors contributing to individual cases. Other causes of malnutrition include: reduced dietary intake, reduced absorption of macro and/or micro-nutrients, increased losses or altered requirements, and an increase in energy expenditure.\n\nPoverty plays a major factor in malnutrition because of the deprivations associated with it. A study conducted by the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) reported that children in the poorest 20% of Peruvian households had an eight-fold risk of dying from malnutrition than children from the richest 20%. Families living under poverty have limited access to healthy, nutritious foods. Additionally, access to clean water and sanitation services may be restricted due to poor living conditions, which increases the risk of infection transmission. Low school attendance rates means that children are excluded from school feeding programs.\n\nInfant mortality in Peru was on average much higher (42.1 per 1,000) from 1995 to 2000 than in other Latin American countries. The prevalence of poverty, mortality and malnutrition vary by geographic regions. Three distinct geographic zones make up Peru: the Pacific coastal area, the Selva, lowland jungle of the Amazon River basin and the Sierra, Andean highlands. is divided into three major geographic zones. Richer and more developed cities like Lima are located in the Pacific coastal are. The Selva includes an array of forest areas and their inhabitants are scattered throughout the area. It is difficult to access them due to geography and climate. In the Andean highlands, 73% of the population live below the poverty line and 40% of them live in extreme poverty, most of whom belong to indigenous populations.\n\nA study by Van de Poel et al. found that the proportion of under-5 stunting in urban Peru was 0.18 and 0.47 in rural Peru, with an absolute difference of 0.29. Among the 47 developing countries surveyed for the study, Peru had the greatest rural- urban disparity in stunting rates. One cause of the disparity could be the effectiveness of public expenditures in reaching target groups in rural and urban areas, as public spending only had a positive impact in children's nutrition outcomes in urban regions. However, even in urban regions, there is a nutritional disparity among children of varying socioeconomic statuses due to barriers in place that limit indigenous and poorer children's access to public services.\n\nInfant mortality in rural areas was 53 per 1,000, compared to 27 per 1,000 in urban areas and 14 percent of children are malnourished in urban areas, compared to 46 percent in rural areas.\n\nMalnutrition can cause physical, cognitive, and developmental problems, oftentimes irreversible and permanent. According to UNICEF, 30% of children below five years of age in Peru are stunted, and 18% are underweight. Food intake reductions can affect the growth of cytokines, glucocorticoids, and insulin. When levels of food intake are low for a long period, our bodies begin to draw on tissues such as muscle, adipose and bones, significantly affecting our body formation and growth.\n\nOne third of child deaths in Peru can be attributed to undernutrition, often because the existing state exacerbates disease. In response to infectious diseases, the body's immune system activates, requiring increased energy consumption. Individuals who are undernourished fail to consume the minimum amount of calories necessary for baseline physiological needs, much less a full immunological response. The quality of life is highly impacted by the regional differences in the country. There is a great of variation among living condition, socioeconomic status, and accessibility to healthcare. Thus, malnourished individuals are more susceptible to infection and are less able to fight diseases. Additionally, low birth weight and stunted children are also at a greater risk of chronic diseases like heart disease and diabetes than healthy children.\n\nMicronutrient deficiencies are prevalent in Peru and impact human well-being. The World Health Organization (WHO) found that 15% of preschoolers in Peru were deficient in vitamin A. They also found that the levels of anemia in preschoolers and pregnant women were respectively 50% and 43% in Peru. Anemia is a condition linked with iron deficiency, which is linked to an increased risk of maternal mortality and impaired cognitive development in children.\n\nGovernment intervention to improve nutritional health began in the seventies with the creation of the National Office for Food Support (ONAA) in 1972, an organization that primarily handled donations from overseas aid groups. During the 1980s, the government expanded its role in food assistance with the creation of the Direct Assistance Program (PAD) for employment-based food aid for and the Vaso de Leche (VL) for young children under six years old. By the 1990s, many food assistance initiatives and programs existed under different government agencies. The ONAA and PAD offices merged to form the National Program for Food Assistance (PRONAA), controlled by the Office of the Presidency (Office of the Prime Minister).\n\nDuring the 1980s the government began to take a more active role in food security for its citizens, creating the \"Direct Assistance Program\" (Programa de Asistencia Directra- PAD) for employment-based food assistance and the \"Glass of Milk Program\" (Vaso de Leche) to benefit children under 6 years old.\n\nStarting in the 1990s food assistance programs began to become more centralized, with the National Office for Food Support and the Direct Assistance Program becoming merged into the National Program for Food Assistance, which was put under direct control of the Office of the Prime Minister.\n\nHowever, during this time NGOs and other non-governmental organized efforts were still very important to the food network of Peru, exemplified by the Comedores Populares. These were neighborhood organizations initially started by churches or NGOs that eventually became supervised by the National Program for Food Assistance with the purpose of feeding the local population. In 1994 there were approximately 5,000 Comdedores Populares organizations in the Lima Metropolitan Area with more than 13,000 other nationwide, almost half of them were self-managed.\n\nBy 2002, Peru was spending $220 million on food and nutrition interventions per year, however the efforts remained insufficient to further reduce child stunting rates. The failure to further reduce stunting rates was attributed to the lack of coordination and integration of the many different food programs, mostly Vaso de Leche, Commedores Populares, and Desayunos Escolares (a school feeding program established in 1966), \"stunting rates declined from 36.5 per cent to 25.8 per cent between 1992 and 1996 but then flattened for the next ten years.\" Many of these programs had poor targeting, low access and usage, and inadequate funding schemes.\n\nDespite the number of government aid groups targeting malnutrition and food accessibility, rates of chronic malnutrition did not significantly decrease during the 1900s. The urban rate of child chronic malnutrition in 1996 was 25.8%, which dropped to 22.9% in 2005. In rural populations, the child chronic malnutrition rate was 40.4% in 1996 and only dropped 0.3% by 2005. A study conducted by Mendizabal and Vasquez examined the public budget on children from 1990 to 2000. They found that much of the budgeted money failed to reach the extreme poor and the geographically isolated, such as individuals living in remote, rural villages. There was high leakage in food and nutrition programs; more than US$1.2 billion was spent on this between 1996 and 2000 to yield a 1% decrease in the level chronic malnutrition in children under five.\n\nThus, Peru switched its intervention strategies following a new administration in 2001 that focused on the right to food as a right, resulting in 2007 with the establishment of the CRECER program. This was the National Strategy CRECER was created through an Executive Decree in 2007, as a \"coordinated poverty reduction strategy that articulates all public offices in the National, Regional and Local Government, as well as the private sector, international cooperation and civil society in general, to promote, facilitate and execute poverty reduction and human development goals.\" The CRECER program stressed central points of going beyond food distribution and include elements such as sanitation, training, cooking programs, access to clean water, and conditional cash transfer programs such as JUNTOS to alleviate malnutrition, to promote integration of programs, to decentralize the scope of interventions, and to adequately fund policy interventions. There are three main axis to the CRECER program: (1) the development of human capabilities and respect of fundamental rights, (2) the promotion of opportunities and economic capacities, and (3) the establishment of a social protection network.\n\nThe Child Nutrition Initiative was another program. It started in 2006 and is an advocacy agency that was formed from the integration of existing NGOs and government agencies to promote good policies for healthcare, education, housing, and public financing. Some of the programs that were integrated into the Child Nutrition Initiative included: Action Against Hunger, UN Population Fund, CARE Peru, World Food Program, and USAID. The CNI offered a coordinated space where differing agencies working resolve malnutrition could work together, this space also allowed the funding and donations to fight malnutrition to unify under what works and avoid fragmented efforts that did not reach all people.\n\nThe CNI plays a key role in asserting the main goal of poverty alleviation was nutrition focused, establishing a coordination agency that could direct technical and financial donations from different agencies, and serve as a public platform where government led malnutrition reduction efforts could be debated on a national level. The CNI serves another purpose of advocating for presidents and regional elected officials to keep their promise to reducing malnutrition, establishing long-term commitment from these leaders.\n\nThe Vaso de Leche (VL), or Glass of Milk, program is the largest social assistance program in Peru, with an annual budget of US$97 million in 2001, reaching over 3 million people, or 44% of households with young children. In December 1984, around 25,000 women marched the streets of Lima to demand that children have the legal right to a glass of milk a day, because milk is often believed to be a commodity that meets the body's nutritional needs. A month later, the government responded with Law 20459, laying the foundation for the Vaso de Leche program. The government chose to use milk as an in-kind benefit because it is assumed to contain an excessive amount of nutrients. The Glass of Milk program disburses a substantial amount of milk resources primarily to poor households with low nutritional status. The program was introduced in Lima in 1984 and expanded in 1998.\n\nMoney is distributed to Peru's 1,608 local municipalities by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Each municipality is required to have an administrative committee of elected representatives. In addition to milk and milk substitutes, the program also distributes cereals and other commodities. The primary target group consists of households with children under the age of seven and pregnant or lactating mothers. Secondary beneficiaries include families with children up to twelve years of age, the elderly, and individuals with tuberculosis.\n\nA study conducted in 2006 sought to evaluate the impact of the VL program on child nutritional outcomes. The authors collected data from VL monthly program expenditures, VL Public Expenditure Tracking Survey, Demographic and Health Surveys from 1996 and 2000, and national household living standard surveys with information about participation in the VL program and child measurements. They examined the distribution of VL transfers at each quintile of income and calculated the intent-to-treat estimates of impact based on the value of the transfers. Calculations were controlled for household factors. They found that the VL transfers were targeted more toward lower quintile households, with the poorest 40% receiving three times as much aid as the richest 20%. From 1996 to 2000, the stunting rate among children decreased by 0.2%, from 26% to 25.8%, a statistically insignificant decrease. The study concluded that the VL program was effective at targeting households with low income or malnourished children, but it made no positive impact on reducing child stunting.\n\nPeru's conditional cash transfer program commenced in 2005, aiming to reduce poverty and promote better education and health practices. Eligible households must comply with conditions that include accessing basic public services for their children in order to receive a monthly cash transfer of US$30. The program targets impoverished households with children under the age of 14, and transfers are given to mothers. The agreement includes the completion of vaccination charts and pre and post-natal health check-ups, as well as using the National Nutritional Assistance Program package for children under three years old, which includes using chlorinated water and anti-parasite medicine. The program aims to focus more on addressing malnutrition in children, encouraging families to use the transfers to purchase more high protein foods. A study conducted by Perova and Vakis revealed that the program increased spending on food categories such as breads and cereals, vegetables, fruits, and tubers among participating households compared to a control group. The evidence suggests that more nutritious calories were consumed as a result of the cash transfers. Despite improving diets and increasing health service utilization, the JUNTOS program has not been able to affect final outcome indicators of nutrition. There were increases in per capita spending, food expenditure, decreases in severity and poverty gap, increases in school attendance and reductions of school dropout. However, no significant results were found in most indicators of prenatal health, child health, or chronic malnutrition.\n\n"}
{"id": "447827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=447827", "title": "Mind (The Culture)", "text": "Mind (The Culture)\n\nIn Iain M. Banks' Culture series, most larger starships, some inhabited planets and all orbitals have their own Minds: sapient, hyperintelligent machines originally built by biological species, which have evolved, redesigned themselves, and become many times more intelligent than their original creators. According to \"Consider Phlebas\", a Mind is an ellipsoid object roughly the size of a bus and weighing around tons.\n\nThese Minds have become an indispensable part of the Culture, enabling much of its post-scarcity amenities by planning and automating society (controlling day-to-day administration with mere fractions of their mental power). The main feature of these Minds—in comparison to extremely powerful artificial intelligences in other fiction—is that the Minds are (by design and by extension of their rational, but \"humanistic\" thought processes) generally a very benevolent presence, and show no wish to supplant or dominate their erstwhile creators. Though this is commonly viewed in a utopian light, a view where the human members of the Culture amount to little more than pets is supportable.\n\nAlthough the Culture is a type of utopian anarchy, Minds most closely approach the status of leaders, and would likely be considered godlike in less rational societies. As independent, thinking beings, each has its own character, and indeed, legally (insofar as the Culture has a 'legal system'), each is a Culture citizen. Some Minds are more aggressive, some more calm; some don't mind mischief, others simply demonstrate intellectual curiosity. But above all they tend to behave rationally and benevolently in their decisions.\n\nAs mentioned before, Minds can serve several different purposes, but Culture ships and habitats have one special attribute: the Mind and the ship or habitat are perceived as one entity; in some ways the Mind \"is\" the ship, certainly from its passengers' point of view. It seems normal practice to address the ship's Mind as \"Ship\" (and an Orbital hub as \"Hub\"). However, a Mind can transfer its 'mind state' into and out of its ship 'body', and even switch roles entirely, becoming (for example) an Orbital Hub from a warship.\n\nMore often than not, the Mind's character defines the ship's purpose. Minds do not end up in roles unsuited to them; an antisocial Mind simply would not volunteer to organise the care of thousands of humans, for example.\nOn occasion groupings of two or three Minds may run a ship. This seems normal practice for larger vehicles such as GSVs, though smaller ships only ever seem to have one Mind.\n\nBanks also hints at a Mind's personality becoming defined at least partially before its creation or 'birth'. Warships, as an example, are designed to revel in controlled destruction; seeing a certain glory in achieving a 'worthwhile' death also seems characteristic. The presence of human crews on board warships may discourage such recklessness, since in the normal course of things, a Mind would not risk beings other than itself.\n\nWith their almost godlike powers of reasoning and action comes a temptation to bend (or break) Cultural norms of ethical behaviour, if deemed necessary for some greater good. In \"The Player of Games\", a Culture citizen is blackmailed, apparently by Special Circumstances Minds, into assisting the overthrow of a barbaric empire, while in \"Excession\", a conspiracy by some Minds to start a war against an oppressive alien race nearly comes to fruition. Yet even in these rare cases, the essentially benevolent intentions of Minds towards other Culture citizens is never in question. More than any other beings in the Culture, Minds are the ones faced with interesting ethical dilemmas.\n\nWhile Minds would likely have different capabilities, especially seeing their widely differing ages (and thus technological sophistication), this is not a theme of the books. It might be speculated that the older Minds are upgraded to keep in step with the advances in technology, thus making this point moot. It is also noted in \"Matter\" that every Culture Mind writes its own OS, thus continually improving itself and, as a side benefit, becoming much less vulnerable to outside takeover by electronic means and viruses, as every Mind's processing functions work differently.\n\nThe high computing power of the Mind is apparently enabled by thought processes (and electronics) being constantly in hyperspace (thus circumventing the light speed limit in computation). Minds do have back-up capabilities functioning with light-speed if the hyperspace capabilities fail - however, this reduces their computational powers by several orders of magnitude (though they remain sentient).\n\nThe storage capability of a GSV Mind is described in \"Consider Phlebas\" as 10 bytes (1 million yottabytes).\n\nThe Culture is a society undergoing slow (by present-day Earth standards) but constant technological change, so the stated capacity of Minds is open to change. In the last 3000 years the capacity of Minds has increased considerably. By the time of the events of the novel \"Excession\" in the mid 19th century, Minds from the first millennium BCE are referred to jocularly as minds, with a small 'm'. Their capacities only allows them to be considered equivalent to what are now known as AI Cores, small (in the literal physical sense) Artificial intelligences used in shuttles, trans-light modules, Drones, and other machines not large enough for a full scale Mind. While still considered sentient, a mind's power at this point is considered greatly inferior to a contemporary Mind. That said, It is possible for Minds to have upgrades, improvements and enhancements given to them since construction, to allow them to remain up to date.\n\nUsing the sensory equipment available to the Culture, Minds can see inside solid objects; in principle they can also read minds by examining the cellular processes inside a living brain, but Culture Minds regard such mindreading as taboo. The only known Mind to break this Taboo, the GCU \"Grey Area\" seen in \"Excession\", is largely ostracized and shunned by other Minds as a result. In \"Look to Windward\" an example is cited of an attempt to destroy a Culture Mind by smuggling a minuscule antimatter bomb onto a Culture orbital inside the head of a Chelgrian agent. However the bomb ends up being spotted without the taboo being broken.\n\nIn \"Consider Phlebas\", a typical Mind is described as a mirror-like ellipsoid of several dozen cubic metres, but weighing many thousands of tons, due to the fact that it is made up of hyper-dense matter. It is noted that most of its 'body' only exists in the real world at the outer shell, the inner workings staying constantly within hyperspace.\n\nThe Mind in \"Consider Phlebas\" is also described as having internal power sources which function as back-up shield generators and space propulsion, and seeing the rational, safety-conscious thinking of Minds, it would be reasonable to assume that all Minds have such features, as well as a complement of drones and other remote sensors as also described.\n\nOther equipment available to them spans the whole range of the Culture's technological capabilities and its practically limitless resources. However, this equipment would more correctly be considered emplaced in the ship or orbital that the Mind is controlling, rather than being part of the Mind itself.\n\nMinds are constructed entities, which have general parameters fixed by their constructors (other Minds) before 'birth', not unlike biological beings. A wide variety of characteristics can be and are manipulated, such as introversion-extroversion, aggressiveness (for warships) or general disposition.\n\nHowever, the character of a Mind evolves as well, and Minds often change over the course of centuries, sometimes changing personality entirely. This is often followed by them becoming eccentric or at least somewhat odd. Others drift from the Culture-accepted ethical norms, and may even start influencing their own society in subtle ways, selfishly furthering their own views of how the Culture should act.\n\nMinds have also been known to commit suicide to escape punishment, or because of grief.\n\nMinds are constructed with a personality typical of the Culture's interests, i.e. full of curiosity, general benevolence (expressed in the 'good works' actions of the Culture, or in the protectiveness regarding sentient beings) and respect for the Culture's customs.\n\nNonetheless, Minds have their own interests in addition to what their peers expect them to do for the Culture, and may develop fascinations or hobbies like other sentient beings do.\n\nThe mental capabilities of Minds are described in \"Excession\" to be vast enough to run entire universe-simulations inside their own imaginations, exploring metamathical (a fictional branch of metamathematics) scenarios, an activity addictive enough to cause some Minds to totally withdraw from caring about our own physical reality into \"Infinite Fun Space\", their own, ironic and understated term for this sort of activity.\n\nOne of the main activities of Ship Minds is the guidance of spaceships from a certain minimum size upwards. A culture spaceship \"is\" the Mind and vice versa; there are no different names for the two, and a spaceship without a Mind would be considered damaged or incomplete to the Culture.\n\nThese ships provide a convenient 'body' for a Mind, which is too large and too important to be contained within smaller, more fragile shells. Following the 'body' analogy, it also provides the Mind with the capability of physical movement. As Minds are living beings with curiosity, emotion and wishes of their own, such mobility is likely very important to most.\n\nCulture Minds (mostly also being ships) usually give themselves whimsical names, though these often hint at their function as well. Even the names of warships retain this humorous approach, though the implications are much darker.\n\nSome Minds also take on functions which either preclude or discourage movement. These usually administer various types of Culture facilities:\n\n\n\nMinds (and, as a consequence, Culture starships) usually bear names that do a little more than just identify them. The Minds themselves choose their own names, and thus they usually express something about a particular Mind's attitude, character or aims in their personal life. They range from funny to just plain cryptic. Some examples are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "294218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294218", "title": "Molecular assembler", "text": "Molecular assembler\n\nA molecular assembler, as defined by K. Eric Drexler, is a \"proposed device able to guide chemical reactions by positioning reactive molecules with atomic precision\". A molecular assembler is a kind of molecular machine. Some biological molecules such as ribosomes fit this definition. This is because they receive instructions from messenger RNA and then assemble specific sequences of amino acids to construct protein molecules. However, the term \"molecular assembler\" usually refers to theoretical human-made devices.\n\nBeginning in 2007, the British Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council has funded development of ribosome-like molecular assemblers. Clearly, molecular assemblers are possible in this limited sense. A technology roadmap project, led by the Battelle Memorial Institute and hosted by several U.S. National Laboratories has explored a range of atomically precise fabrication technologies, including both early-generation and longer-term prospects for programmable molecular assembly; the report was released in December, 2007. In 2008 the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council provided funding of 1.5 million pounds over six years for research working towards mechanized mechanosynthesis, in partnership with the Institute for Molecular Manufacturing, amongst others.\n\nLikewise, the term \"molecular assembler\" has been used in science fiction and popular culture to refer to a wide range of fantastic atom-manipulating nanomachines, many of which may be physically impossible in reality. Much of the controversy regarding \"molecular assemblers\" results from the confusion in the use of the name for both technical concepts and popular fantasies. In 1992, Drexler introduced the related but better-understood term \"molecular manufacturing,\" which he defined as the programmed \"chemical synthesis of complex structures by mechanically positioning reactive molecules, not by manipulating individual atoms.\"\n\nThis article mostly discusses \"molecular assemblers\" in the popular sense. These include hypothetical machines that manipulate individual atoms and machines with organism-like self-replicating abilities, mobility, ability to consume food, and so forth. These are quite different from devices that merely (as defined above) \"guide chemical reactions by positioning reactive molecules with atomic precision\".\n\nBecause synthetic molecular assemblers have never been constructed and because of the confusion regarding the meaning of the term, there has been much controversy as to whether \"molecular assemblers\" are possible or simply science fiction. Confusion and controversy also stem from their classification as nanotechnology, which is an active area of laboratory research which has already been applied to the production of real products; however, there had been, until recently, no research efforts into the actual construction of \"molecular assemblers\".\n\nNonetheless, a 2013 paper by David Leigh's group, published in the journal \"Science\", details a new method of synthesizing a peptide in a sequence-specific manner by using an artificial molecular machine that is guided by a molecular strand. This functions in the same way as a ribosome building proteins by assembling amino acids according to a messenger RNA blueprint. The structure of the machine is based on a rotaxane, which is a molecular ring sliding along a molecular axle. The ring carries a thiolate group which removes amino acids in sequence from the axle, transferring them to a peptide assembly site. In 2018, the same group published a more advanced version of this concept in which the molecular ring shuttles along a polymeric track to assemble an oligopeptide that can fold into a α-helix that can perform the enantioselective epoxidation of a chalcone derivative (in a way reminiscent to the ribosome assembling an enzyme). In another paper published in \"Science\" in March 2015, chemists at the University of Illinois report a platform that automates the synthesis of 14 classes of small molecules, with thousands of compatible building blocks.\n\nIn 2017 David Leigh's group reported a molecular robot that could be programmed to construct any one of four different stereoisomers of a molecular product by using a nanomechanical robotic arm to move a molecular substrate between different reactive sites of an artificial molecular machine. An accompanying News and Views article, titled ‘A molecular assembler’, outlined the operation of the molecular robot as effectively a prototypical molecular assembler.\n\nA nanofactory is a proposed system in which nanomachines (resembling molecular assemblers, or industrial robot arms) would combine reactive molecules via mechanosynthesis to build larger atomically precise parts. These, in turn, would be assembled by positioning mechanisms of assorted sizes to build macroscopic (visible) but still atomically-precise products.\n\nA typical nanofactory would fit in a desktop box, in the vision of K. Eric Drexler published in \"Nanosystems: Molecular Machinery, Manufacturing and Computation\" (1992), a notable work of \"exploratory engineering\". During the 1990s, others have extended the nanofactory concept, including an analysis of nanofactory convergent assembly by Ralph Merkle, a systems design of a replicating nanofactory architecture by J. Storrs Hall, Forrest Bishop's \"Universal Assembler\", the patented exponential assembly process by Zyvex, and a top-level systems design for a 'primitive nanofactory' by Chris Phoenix (Director of Research at the Center for Responsible Nanotechnology). All of these nanofactory designs (and more) are summarized in Chapter 4 of \"Kinematic Self-Replicating Machines\" (2004) by Robert Freitas and Ralph Merkle. The Nanofactory Collaboration, founded by Freitas and Merkle in 2000, is a focused ongoing effort involving 23 researchers from 10 organizations and 4 countries that is developing a practical research agenda specifically aimed at positionally-controlled diamond mechanosynthesis and diamondoid nanofactory development.\n\nIn 2005, a computer-animated short film of the nanofactory concept was produced by John Burch, in collaboration with Drexler. Such visions have been the subject of much debate, on several intellectual levels. No one has discovered an insurmountable problem with the underlying theories and no one has proved that the theories can be translated into practice. However, the debate continues, with some of it being summarized in the molecular nanotechnology article.\n\nIf nanofactories could be built, severe disruption to the world economy would be one of many possible negative impacts, though it could be argued that this disruption would have little negative effect if everyone had such nanofactories. Great benefits also would be anticipated. Various works of science fiction have explored these and similar concepts. The potential for such devices was part of the mandate of a major UK study led by mechanical engineering professor Dame Ann Dowling.\n\n\"Molecular assemblers\" have been confused with self-replicating machines. To produce a practical quantity of a desired product, the nanoscale size of a typical science fiction universal molecular assembler requires an extremely large number of such devices. However, a single such theoretical molecular assembler might be programmed to self-replicate, constructing many copies of itself. This would allow an exponential rate of production. Then after sufficient quantities of the molecular assemblers were available, they would then be re-programmed for production of the desired product. However, if self-replication of molecular assemblers were not restrained then it might lead to competition with naturally occurring organisms. This has been called ecophagy or the grey goo problem.\n\nOne method to building molecular assemblers is to mimic evolutionary processes employed by biological systems. Biological evolution proceeds by random variation combined with culling of the less-successful variants and reproduction of the more-successful variants. Production of complex molecular assemblers might be evolved from simpler systems since \"A complex system that works is invariably found to have evolved from a simple system that worked. . . . A complex system designed from scratch never works and can not be patched up to make it work. You have to start over, beginning with a system that works.\" However, most published safety guidelines include\n\"recommendations against developing ... replicator designs which permit surviving mutation or undergoing evolution\".\n\nMost assembler designs keep the \"source code\" external to the physical assembler. At each step of a manufacturing process, that step is read from an ordinary computer file and \"broadcast\" to all the assemblers.\nIf any assembler gets out of range of that computer, or when the link between that computer and the assemblers is broken, or when that computer is unplugged, the assemblers stop replicating.\nSuch a \"broadcast architecture\" is one of the safety features recommended by the \"Foresight Guidelines on Molecular Nanotechnology\", and a map of the 137-dimensional replicator design space recently published by Freitas and Merkle provides numerous practical methods by which replicators can be safely controlled by good design.\n\nOne of the most outspoken critics of some concepts of \"molecular assemblers\" was Professor Richard Smalley (1943–2005) who won the Nobel prize for his contributions to the field of nanotechnology. Smalley believed that such assemblers were not physically possible and introduced scientific objections to them. His two principal technical objections were termed the \"fat fingers problem\" and the \"sticky fingers problem\". He believed these would exclude the possibility of \"molecular assemblers\" that worked by precision picking and placing of individual atoms. Drexler and coworkers responded to these two issues in a 2001 publication.\n\nSmalley also believed that Drexler's speculations about apocalyptic dangers of self-replicating machines that have been equated with \"molecular assemblers\" would threaten the public support for development of nanotechnology. To address the debate between Drexler and Smalley regarding molecular assemblers \"Chemical & Engineering News\" published a point-counterpoint consisting of an exchange of letters that addressed the issues.\n\nSpeculation on the power of systems that have been called \"molecular assemblers\" has sparked a wider political discussion on the implication of nanotechnology. This is in part due to the fact that nanotechnology is a very broad term and could include \"molecular assemblers.\" Discussion of the possible implications of fantastic molecular assemblers has prompted calls for regulation of current and future nanotechnology. There are very real concerns with the potential health and ecological impact of nanotechnology that is being integrated in manufactured products. Greenpeace for instance commissioned a report concerning nanotechnology in which they express concern into the toxicity of nanomaterials that have been introduced in the environment. However, it makes only passing references to \"assembler\" technology. The UK Royal Society and Royal Academy of Engineering also commissioned a report entitled \"Nanoscience and nanotechnologies: opportunities and uncertainties\" regarding the larger social and ecological implications on nanotechnology. This report does not discuss the threat posed by potential so-called \"molecular assemblers.\"\n\nIn 2006, U.S. National Academy of Sciences released the report of a study of molecular manufacturing as part of a longer report, \"A Matter of Size: Triennial Review of the National Nanotechnology Initiative\" The study committee reviewed the technical content of \"Nanosystems\", and in its conclusion states that no current theoretical analysis can be considered definitive regarding several questions of potential system performance, and that optimal paths for implementing high-performance systems cannot be predicted with confidence. It recommends experimental research to advance knowledge in this area:\n\nOne potential scenario that has been envisioned is out-of-control self-replicating molecular assemblers in the form of grey goo which consumes carbon to continue its replication. If unchecked such mechanical replication could potentially consume whole ecoregions or the whole Earth (ecophagy), or it could simply outcompete natural lifeforms for necessary resources such as carbon, ATP, or UV light (which some nanomotor examples run on). However, the ecophagy and 'grey goo' scenarios, like synthetic molecular assemblers, are based upon still-hypothetical technologies that have not yet been demonstrated experimentally.\n\nMolecular assemblers are a popular topic in science fiction, for example, the matter compiler in The Diamond Age and the cornucopia machine in Singularity Sky. The replicator in \"Star Trek\" might also be considered a molecular assembler. A molecular assembler is also a key element of the plot of the computer game \"Deus Ex\" (called a \"universal constructor\" in the game).\n\nIn the political sci-fi comic series Transmetropolitan, written by Warren Ellis, machines called \"Makers\" are used to replicate and reform matter. Each morning, Makers sweep the streets for garbage, gathering the matter to recycle it into more useful objects. The main character also uses a Maker in his apartment to instantly produce a pair of glasses which take photos, as well as other objects such as clothing.\n\nIn Dead Money, a DLC of the video game , the player can obtain useful items from vending machines that use an unknown form of molecular assembly technology to transform casino chips that the player can find into any of several items.\n\nIn the cyberpunk visual novel Baldr Sky, a nano machine simply given the name \"Assembler\" is present for the purpose of cleaning the polluted atmosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "47623626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47623626", "title": "Multi expression programming", "text": "Multi expression programming\n\nMulti Expression Programming (MEP) is a genetic programming variant encoding multiple solutions in the same chromosome. MEP representation is not specific (multiple representations have been tested). In the simplest variant, MEP chromosomes are linear strings of instructions. This representation was inspired by Three-address code. MEP strength consists in the ability to encode multiple solutions, of a problem, in the same chromosome. In this way one can explore larger zones of the search space. For most of the problems this advantage comes with no running-time penalty compared with genetic programming variants encoding a single solution in a chromosome.\n\nHere is a simple MEP program:\nOn each line we can have a terminal or a function. In the case of functions we also need pointers to its arguments.\n\nWhen we decode the chromosome we obtain multiple expressions:\nWhich expression will represent the chromosome? In MEP each expression is evaluated and the best of them will represent the chromosome. For most of the problems, this evaluation has the same complexity as in the case of encoding a single solution in each chromosome.\n\nMEPX is a cross platform (Windows, Mac OSX, and Linux Ubuntu) free software for automatic generation of computer programs. It can be used for data analysis, particularly for solving regression and classification problems.\n\nLibmep is a free and open source library implementing Multi Expression Programming technique. It is written in C++.\n\nhmep is a new open source library implementing Multi Expression Programming technique in Haskell programming language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30215947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30215947", "title": "Murder of Lakhvinder Cheema", "text": "Murder of Lakhvinder Cheema\n\nLakhvinder Cheema was murdered in Southall, West London, by his former lover, Lakhvir Kaur Singh through the use of poison derived from the Indian plant Aconitum ferox, which contains the highly toxic alkaloid pseudaconitine. Singh became known as \"The Curry Killer\" due to the food to which the poison was added. The case is of note due to the cruel method of killing and the degree of premeditation, with Singh travelling to India to procure \"bikh\" poison, prepared from \"Aconitum ferox\". Singh received a life sentence with a 23-year minimum term.\n\nSingh had engaged in a 16-year affair with Lakhvinder Cheema after his first marriage had failed. She had three children and her husband Aunkar was being treated for cancer.\n\nThe main event leading up to the murder of Cheema was his breaking off the sixteen-year affair he had been having with Singh to marry a younger woman in October 2008. Prior to this Singh had also threatened that she would burn down his house when she found him in bed with the woman he would later leave her for.\n\nAfter the break-up, Cheema had been hospitalized for a week with suspected poisoning after consuming a meal prepared by Singh . A month later, Singh returned from a trip to India with the aconite that would later be used in the murder. On 27 January Singh went to the victim's home and laced a curry in his refrigerator with the poison, knowing that he and his fiancée were planning to eat the dish that evening.\n\nAfter the curry dinner, Cheema began to vomit, and his face became numb; he soon lost vision and the use of his limbs. Though his sister was able to get the couple to a hospital, Cheema died within an hour of arrival. Choough suffered the same symptoms, but was placed into a medically induced coma and made a full recovery.\n\nDuring a 999 call, Cheema stated he had been poisoned by his ex-girlfriend.\n\nThe case gained attention due to the particularly cruel nature of Cheema's killing. Victims of aconite poisoning suffer severe vomiting, and often become paralysed. Their organs stop working and they die from asphyxiation, yet they remain conscious throughout. The case was also unusual, as the last prosecution for murder using aconite was that of George Henry Lamson in 1882.\n\nThe trial took place at the Old Bailey in 2010 . Singh attempted to blame her brother-in-law Varinda for the crime but a lodger had witnessed her taking the curry out of the fridge on the day of the murder. It was also revealed that a plastic bag containing brown powder was found in Singh's coat. She had claimed this was medication for a rash on her neck, whereas it was in fact Indian aconite, matching the poison found in the curry.\n\nSingh was convicted on 10 February 2010 of the murder of Lakhvinder Cheema and grievous bodily harm against his new fiancée who survived the attack (Singh was acquitted of attempted murder). Singh was also acquitted of administering poison to her ex-lover's food on a previous occasion.\n\nThe Crown had sought life imprisonment for Singh with a minimum term of 30 years, due to the gravity of the case and the level of premeditation involved in addition to the fact there had been two victims. Singh received a life sentence with a 23-year minimum term.\n"}
{"id": "54799191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54799191", "title": "Murder of Vicente Bermúdez Zacarías", "text": "Murder of Vicente Bermúdez Zacarías\n\nOn 17 October 2016, Mexican federal judge Vicente Bermúdez Zacarías went on a morning jog near his home in Metepec, State of Mexico, an upscale community outside of Mexico City. As he was crossing a street, an unidentified gunman came up behind him and shot him at point-blank range in the head. Bermúdez Zacarías fell to the ground bleeding and was transported to a nearby hospital, but died before he was able to receive medical attention. The perpetrator fled the scene with an accomplice and reportedly hid in an abandoned lot nearby before taking off. The incident was captured through a surveillance camera and was leaked to the media the following day. The identity of the suspected gunman was discovered the following year, but both of them remain at large.\n\nHis murder garnered national attention and reactions from the highest levels of the Mexican government, including from President Enrique Peña Nieto and the Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. Attacks against federal judges like Bermúdez Zacarías were a rare occurrence in the ongoing Mexican Drug War since organized crime groups rarely targeted high-ranking judicial officials. The President ordered the investigation to be under federal jurisdiction. Investigators discovered that two weeks before he was killed, Bermúdez Zacarías suspected that two men were following him. He called the police one day on his way home, but did not request to have security measures in place for his daily activities.\n\nBermúdez Zacarías was based in the State of Mexico and served various court positions throughout his career. He led several notable civil and organized crime cases, including those involving suspected high-ranking leaders from Mexico's drug trafficking organizations. Initial suspicion for his murder fell on Joaquín \"El Chapo\" Guzmán, once considered Mexico's most-wanted drug lord. Bermúdez Zacarías had presided over a part of his extradition process. However, the main line of investigation suggests that Bermúdez Zacarías was killed after investigating irregularities committed by his court predecessor and his accomplices. Six months before the murder, Bermúdez Zacarías accused them of visiting inmates at the Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 1 without legal authorization.\n\nVicente Antonio Bermúdez Zacarías was born on in León, Guanajuato, Mexico. His father, Vicente Bermúdez Vargas, was a lawyer, and his mother, María Elena Zacarías, was a grade school teacher. He had two siblings; a younger and an older sister. He grew up in the community of Santa Rosa Plan de Ayala, a rural community in León. Since he was six years old, Bermúdez Zacarías told his parents that he wanted to become a lawyer. While in primary school, Bermúdez Zacarías was studious and had a high grade point average. He then left to Silao, Guanajuato, for high school and attended Preparatoria Oficial. Upon graduation, he attended the University of Guanajuato from 1996 to 2001 and received his bachelor's degree in law. He then did his master's degree in criminal law at the Universidad Iberoamericana León. He interned at the High Court of Justice in Guanajuato prior to joining full-time. Outside of school, he enjoyed playing basketball and association football.\n\nHe began his legal career at the Sixth Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court of Guanajuato as an administrative assistant. He then held the post of judicial official and actuary at the First District Court of the Federal Criminal Proceedings in the State of Mexico. Bermúdez Zacarías was the secretary of the First Tribunal Court of the Twelve Circuit, representing Sinaloa; of the Tribunal Court of Administrative Matters and Work in the Sixteenth District, representing Guanajuato; and in the First Tribunal Unit of the Sixteenth. In December 2013, he became the district court judge of the Sixth Penal Court, responsible for authorizing home raids, preventative arrests, and detainee communication in Mexico City. In March 2016, he served as an appeals court judge responsible for authorizing writs of amparo and presiding over civil proceedings at a federal level in the State of Mexico.\n\nBermúdez Zacarías presided over several major criminal law cases, including those involving high-ranking organized crime members. In September 2013, he presided over the case involving suspected Los Zetas leader Miguel Treviño Morales (alias \"Z-40\"). Bermúdez Zacarías ordered his arrest warrant and formally charged him after he was arrested in July 2013. In July 2016, he presided over another case involving Treviño Morales, this time because he alleged to not have received remuneration for his prison job and for not being allowed to go to the prison's yard. Bermúdez Zacarías decided in favor of Treviño Morales. In March 2015, he ordered the 40-day preventative arrest of Abigael González Valencia (alias \"El Cuini\"), a suspected drug lord and high-ranking leader of the Jalisco New Generation Cartel. González Valencia was arrested by Mexican security forces the month before, and was wanted for international drug trafficking and arms trafficking. Following the preventative arrest imposed by Zacarías, he was transferred to a maximum-security prison. In June 2015, he approved a writ of amparo for Ildefonso Zamora Baldomero, a Mexican environmentalist who was arrested months earlier for an alleged robbery attempt. According to Bermúdez Zacarías' decision, the environmentalist's rights were violated because his presumption of innocence was ignored since there was no evidence against him. This decision guaranteed his release from prison unless the state government vetoed it. Zamora Baldomero was released from prison in August 2015.\n\nBermúdez Zacarías played a role in the legal process of Joaquín \"El Chapo\" Guzmán, once considered Mexico's most-wanted drug lord, when El Chapo was at large and in prison in Mexico. After El Chapo escaped from prison a second time in July 2015, Bermúdez Zacarías issued several rulings against him and his inner circle. He authorized law enforcement to intercept his conversations with his wife Emma Coronel Aispuro. This approval was done a week before El Chapo was re-arrested in January 2016. In March 2016, Bermúdez Zacarías suspended the extradition request of El Chapo to the United States. El Chapo's defense requested to have their client extradited because El Chapo reportedly believed that the prison conditions in Mexico were too harsh. El Chapo was later moved from the Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 1 (also known as \"Altiplano\") maximum-security prison in the State of Mexico to the Federal Social Readaptation Center No. 9 (also known as \"Norte\") in Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, in May 2016. In January 2017, after nearly a year of court appeals and legal proceedings, he was extradited to the U.S.\n\nIn September 2016, Bermúdez Zacarías presided over the tax fraud investigation of Naim Libien Kaui, the owner of Mexico City's newspaper \"Unomásuno\". \"Unomásuno\" and the owner's son, Naim Libien Tella, were linked to González Valencia's drug trafficking group the previous year. According to court documents, Libien Kaui committed an income tax fraud of MXN$11,413,886 in 2012, as well as other income tax frauds in 2010, 2011, and 2013. The day Libien Kaui was arrested, he issued a writ of amparo to the State of Mexico appeals court over which Bermúdez Zacarías presided. Bermúdez Zacarías, however, struck down the writ of amparo under the rationale that the case was out of his jurisdiction. He then pushed the case to another court in Mexico City. In October 2016, he dismissed a writ of amparo issued by Gildardo López Astudillo (alias \"El Gil\"), a major suspect in the mass disappearance of 43 students in Guerrero that occurred in 2014. The writ of amparo was issued because El Gil wanted to be transferred from Altiplano prison. However, he rejected the request because complaints for approvals were nonexistent. Bermúdez Zacarías also presided over the cases against Javier Torres Félix, convicted high-ranking leader of the Sinaloa Cartel, and Mario Cárdenas Guillén, a suspected Gulf Cartel leader.\n\nOn 17 October 2016, Bermúdez Zacarías went on a morning jog near his home in Metepec, an upscale exurb outside of Mexico City. As he was crossing a side street in front of a private residential neighborhood entrance, a man dressed in black ran up to him from behind and shot him at point-blank range in the head with a 9 mm pistol. Bermúdez Zacarías was able to turn his head briefly before the gunman delivered the shot to the back of his head. The judge fell to the ground bleeding and curled into a fetal position before rolling onto his back and spreading his legs and arms. The assassin then ran back and startled a cyclist and a pedestrian before catching up with his accomplice, who was waiting for him from a distance, before fleeing the scene. While Bermúdez Zacarías was on the ground, a car stopped next to him for a few seconds before continuing its course. A second vehicle turned towards the street Bermúdez Zacarías was on, but continued driving inside the residential neighborhood after stopping momentarily. The security guards from the residential neighborhood then called an ambulance. He was transported to Regional Hospital 251 of the Mexican Social Security Institute in Metepec, but doctors confirmed that he died before reaching the hospital. The murder scene was cordoned by the Metepec municipal police, the State of Mexico police, and members of the State of Mexico Attorney General Office. All three law enforcement agencies conducted an investigation at the street where Bermúdez Zacarías was gunned down.\n\nBermúdez Zacarías' corpse was sent from the State of Mexico to León, Guanajuato on 18 October and arrived after 7:30 p.m. local time. His body was first taken in a hearse to his parents' house (escorted by vehicles from the Mexican Federal Police), where his family, friends, and acquaintances hosted a wake service. From early in the morning, Bermúdez Zacarías' family and friends began to prepare for the ceremony by putting up several chairs and flower arrangements. A mass ceremony was conducted that night, and prayers were held until dawn. Approximately 500 people attended the ceremonies. Several of Bermúdez Zacarías's hometown friends, including local authorities, posted eulogies on social media and expressed their condolences to the family. Bermúdez Zacarías' father stated that his family was deeply saddened by the murder. He also said that the murder was work-related and a revenge attack from an organized crime group. Following the priest's sermon, he asked Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation (SCJN) head Luis María Aguilar Morales to fully investigate the systematic corruption in Mexico's justice system. The next morning, Bermúdez Zacarías' body was buried at Jardines del Tiempo cemetery in León.\n\nHis murder garnered national attention and reactions from the highest levels of the Mexican government, including President Enrique Peña Nieto (2012–2018). In a meeting with the International Union of Magistrates (), Peña Nieto condemned the murder and instructed Mexico's Attorney General Office (PGR) under Arely Gómez González to take over the case. He did not provide further details on the case. There was also no immediate word from authorities on a possible motive. Reactions then extended to other levels of the government; Aguilar Morales also condemned the murder and asked the government to fully investigate the case. He stated that the government needed to protect the integrity of its judges and magistrates. The head of the Senate of the Republic, Pablo Escudero Morales, also condemned the murder and stated that they fully respected what federal judges like Bermúdez Zacarías do for the country. His death also garnered reactions from human rights groups in Mexico and abroad. Mexico's National Human Rights Commission (CNDH) demanded the Mexican government to provide better protection to its judges, and stated that the murder's intention was to intimidate other judges. Amnesty International issued a message condemning the attacks, and asked the Mexican government to carry out a swift, extensive, and independent investigation. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights asked the Mexican government to consider the cases Bermúdez Zacarías' presided over as possible motives for his murder.\n\nOn 17 October 2016, the same day he was murdered, PGR offices in the State of Mexico took over the entire case. The PGR explained that this case fell under their jurisdiction because of Article 20 and other clauses of the National Code of Criminal Proceedings and Legal Protection, which grants them jurisdiction over cases which they see fit and that fall under certain legal criteria. Gilberto Higuera and Noé Rodríguez, heads of the State of Mexico's appeal system, met with State of Mexico Attorney General Alejandro Jaime Gómez Sánchez to discuss the PGR's decision. The Governor of the State of Mexico, Eruviel Ávila Villegas, confirmed to the press later that day that investigators had a video recording of the murder. He did not go into detail about the lines of investigation they were considering, but stated that the PGR and State of Mexico officials were working together. He also offered his condolences to Bermúdez Zacarías' last employers, the SCJN, and told them that the assassin in the video would be arrested. Mexico's Executive Commission for Attention to Victims (CEVA) offered to help the family legal advice and counseling.\n\nThe murder of a federal judge and high-ranking judicial official like Bermúdez Zacarías was a rare occurrence in the ongoing Mexican Drug War (2006–present). The federal judge murdered before Bermúdez Zacarías was René Hilario Nieto Contreras, who was killed in October 2006 in Toluca, reportedly on orders from the Gulf Cartel. In 2010, federal judge Carlos Alberto Elorza Amores was attacked by suspected organized crime members in Nayarit. He survived the attack with minor injuries, but one of his bodyguards was killed in the shootout. In 2015, federal judge Joel Fernando Tinajero Jiménez was shot and injured in Jalisco. It is more common for police chiefs, journalists, priests, mayors, and local judges to suffer attacks from organized crime. The rarity of attacks against federal judges is due to the fact that many of them enjoy better protection from Mexico's judicial branches. According to data from the Council of the Federal Judiciary (CJF) (), 21 judges and magistrates had bodyguards in 2012. They also have several established security protocols. If a judge faces a threat, the CJF helps the judge and his/her family by transferring them to other cities.\n\nThe CNDH suggested after Bermúdez Zacarías' murder to create a policy to have judges handle cases anonymously in order to protect their identity. They argued that by having this policy in place, judges would be able to preside over cases impartially and without being intimidated. This method was used in Peru, Colombia, and Italy to protect judges who faced threats from armed groups. The Mexican government stated that they would debate and consider the proposal as an option, but said that accepting the policy would mean that they were giving in to the pressures from organized crime. Moreover, the 2016 judicial reform – the New Criminal Justice System (Spanish: \"Nuevo Sistema de Justicia Penal\", NSJP) – advocated for greater judicial transparency, a move that was seen at odds with the proposed policy. When Bermúdez Zacarías was murdered, only 70 out of 1,391 federal judges had security measures in place to protect them from attacks. Several judges advocated for more security measures, but this also posed several challenges because of the limited resources and long processes that would need to take place for such budgets to be approved by politicians. Local judges, however, do not enjoy the level of protection that their federal counterparts have, and attacks from organized crime members are more prevalent. In addition, most of the cases involving attacks or intimidation against judges are not reported to the police. If the cases are filed to the police, many of them do not reach a court of law and are closed without imparting justice.\n\nSix months before his murder, Bermúdez Zacarías issued a complaint to the CJF for several irregularities he found in his job when he joined as an appeals judge in 2016. According to Bermúdez Zacarías' findings, Mayumi Guadalupe Sánchez Torres, the wife of his predecessor Jorge Arturo Porras Gutiérrez, was visiting several inmates at Altiplano prison without justification. Her job was to legally notify inmates of their cases in person, but Bermúdez Zacarías also discovered that she was abusing this right and visiting other inmates who were not in their itinerary. Sánchez Torres was an actuary at the appeals court and was accompanied by another actuary, Ana Lilia Coyote Colín, during her prison visits. They were taken to prison by Alejandro Coyote Colín, who served as the driver. Bermúdez Zacarías discovered that the driver also spoke with the inmates and posed as an actuary. This complaint led the CJF to investigate and suspend Sánchez Torres, Ana Lilia, and two other people. Investigators are considering this line of investigation as a possible motive for his murder.\n\nAs part of the investigation, the CJF analyzed the possibility of suspending Porras Gutiérrez from his post as district judge in Poza Rica, Veracruz, a position he held when Bermúdez Zacarías was killed. On 19 October, Porras Gutiérrez and his wife Sánchez Torres spoke to the press and stated that they were not involved in Bermúdez Zacarías' murder. They said the accusations were absurd and negatively impacted their reputation and integrity. Porras Gutiérrez clarified that he never tried to cover up any alleged wrongdoings, and Sánchez Torres stated that as an actuary, she was responsible for visiting prison inmates to make notifications, and clarified that the accusations of her visiting inmates without justification were false. Porras Gutiérrez admitted that he received death threats during his tenure as an appeals judge before Bermúdez Zacarías joined. He told the press that he had up to eight policemen guarding him and travelled in armored vehicles for at least two years. When asked about the investigation against him, Porras Gutiérrez said the police had not reached out to him for questioning. The following day, he also said he would help investigators by providing them with any information they might request from him to help facilitate the case.\n\nTwo weeks before he was killed, Bermúdez Zacarías reached out to the Metepec municipal police for help and told them that he suspected that someone was following him. He also told this to Manuel Delgadillo Aguiñaga, one of his coworkers. After the murder, his coworker told investigators that Bermúdez Zacarías saw two suspicious men on a motorcycle one day in his neighborhood when he was coming back home from work. Bermúdez Zacarías decided to turn around in his car and drive away. Minutes later, he arrived home escorted by a Metepec police car. Despite fearing for his life, Bermúdez Zacarías did not officially ask for any sort of security measures or protection, and continued his daily activities as usual. According to his family, Bermúdez Zacarías never told them about this incident or that he faced any work-related death threats.\n\nHis murder is currently unsolved, but initial suspicions led investigators to the high-profile organized crime cases he handled. According to a former Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) chief agent, two insider sources within Mexico's security agencies believe that El Chapo was behind Bermúdez Zacarías' murder. This line of investigation considers that El Chapo was dissatisfied with the way Bermúdez Zacarías managed the extradition process against him. They believe that after Bermúdez Zacarías suspended El Chapo's extradition to the U.S. in May 2016, El Chapo considered that Bermúdez Zacarías was putting him in danger by keeping him in a Mexican prison. Investigators alleged that El Chapo was pushing for his extradition because he feared for his life in Mexico because the government could not afford to have him escape from prison a third time. The former DEA chief agent stated that his sources told him that Bermúdez Zacarías received death threats a few days before he was killed. It remains unclear to investigators if there is any connection between the murder and the high-profile cases over which he presided. The perpetrators remain at large.\n\nBecause Bermúdez Zacarías was responsible for striking a writ of amparo that prevented El Chapo's extradition, rumors began to surface that El Chapo may have been behind his murder. El Chapo's lawyers, however, told the press that their client had nothing to do with the incident. José Refugio Rodríguez, one of the attorneys in El Chapo's legal team, said that Bermúdez Zacarías' decision to halt his client's extradition did not benefit or negatively affect their case. He mentioned that the writ of amparo was simply issued to help El Chapo buy more time, and that Bermúdez Zacarías' decision was previously decided by another court in Mexico City. Rodríguez stated that he lamented Bermúdez Zacarías' death and complained that he did not have security measures in place to safeguard his life. In addition, his lawyers blamed the press of abusing their client and creating yellow journalism by linking the murder to El Chapo. In an interview with the press, Carlos Castillo Castillo, another of El Chapo's attorneys, stated when they began the writ of amparo procedures for El Chapo, Bermúdez Zacarías was not working at the appeals court. He did admit that the judge analyzed the case, but reiterated that the decision to halt El Chapo's extradition was not entirely up to him.\n\nThe video investigators had in their possession was from a surveillance camera of the neighborhood. It leaked to the press on 18 October. The release of the video posed a number of challenges for investigators, however. By leaking the video, they explained, a judge could invalidate it as evidence in the case. According to Mexican law, before evidence is presented before a judge, it has to be legally gathered and safeguarded. If the evidence is released to the public before presented to a judge, the judge might render the evidence invalid if he/she considers that it violated the due process and eliminates the possibility of the suspect having presumption of innocence. The CJF complained that the leak infringed with the legal proceedings because it compromised the efficacy of the investigation and violated the rights of the victim's family. They stated that the release of the video showed that there were insiders with \"other interests\" in the case whose intentions were to purposely release the video to hurt the investigation. On 20 October, the CJF issued a lawsuit and presented it to the PGR and State of Mexico officials, arguing that it was illegal for government officials to leak the video. They asked both agencies to conduct an investigation to uncover who was responsible for releasing it to the public. The PGR stated that their personnel did not leak the video, and that it was likely the people in charge of the security cameras in Metepec.\n\nThe day of the murder, an eyewitness came forward and told investigators that she allegedly saw the two young men involved in Bermúdez Zacarías' murder. She said that the two men were of slim complexion and may have been 24–25 years old; according to her description, one was fully dressed in black and that the other had dark pants and a white sweater. The woman saw them as she was driving through the street where Bermúdez Zacarías was murdered. When she first saw the two men, she did not think they were suspicious because she thought they were construction workers from a nearby site. As she was driving down the street, she saw Bermúdez Zacarías on the road and thought that he had fainted. When she got close to the body, she noticed a pool of blood. She turned back to look at the two men, who kept walking down the street in an opposite direction.\n\nAccording to the woman, another car pulled over and tried to help Bermúdez Zacarías by telling a nearby security officer to call the police. The eyewitness then made a U-turn and followed the alleged assassins in her car. Tho two men went into hiding in an abandoned lot a few blocks away. She noticed that the lot was gated, and returned to the crime scene to see if any police officers had arrived. When the first policemen arrived, she reportedly told them that she saw two men walk into an abandoned lot. A third policeman went to inspect the lot, but came back to the murder scene after not seeing anything suspicious. The eyewitness complained to the press that the policemen were slow to act and may not have checked the abandoned lot thoroughly since she said there were several large bushes where the two men may have been hiding. A few days after her confession, the eyewitness stated that she was harassed by people who were presumably armed outside her home and in a vehicle.\n\nOn 6 January 2017, the CJF informed that it had suspended Porras Gutiérrez for six months as district judge of Poza Rica for lying about the illegal visits the driver did at Altiplano. According to investigators, the driver was permanently living in Toluca – close to Altiplano – even though he was assigned in Veracruz. The CJF suspected that Porras Gutiérrez gave him permission to live outside of his assigned city. During the suspension time, Porras Gutiérrez was allowed to receive only 30% of his salary. His wife Sánchez Torres was permanently suspended before him. Later that year in May, the CJF started a legal proceeding against Alejandro, the driver, after the CJF concluded that Porras Gutiérrez was trying to cover up his involvement.\n\nOn 24 August 2017, the PGR identified the suspected murderer after analyzing a video recording from a convenience store during the time of the murder. The recording took place after Bermúdez Zacarías was killed. In the video, a taxi from Metepec stopped at an OXXO convenience store, where the suspect got off to buy certain items. About a minute later, the suspect exited the store after purchasing several goods. He then walks towards the taxi, thanks the driver, and opens the back door. The other suspect, believed to have been at the crime scene, got off the vehicle. The face of the first suspect was captured by the surveillance cameras, but it was not possible to recognize the face of the other one. Both of them then left the store on foot and were no longer visible by the surveillance camera.\n\nOn 17 October 2017, exactly one year after Bermúdez Zacarías was killed, the case had not yet been reviewed by a judge in a court of law. The CJF also stated that it had not received a formal request to increase security measures for judges across the country. On 25 October, the CJF handed out a 20-year suspension to Porras Gutiérrez, Sánchez Torres, and Ana Lilia, after identifying irregularities in their job activities. The CJF stated that they acted in accordance to the law and had sufficient evidences against them to carry out this suspension, which prohibited from holding any type of government job during the established timeframe. The case against these three functionaries was handed over to the PGR, who will carry out a civil investigation against them. However, the CJF clarified that this suspension was not definite because the three functionaries could legally challenge the decision in court.\n\nOn 9 November 2017, the CJF suspended 10 actuaries from the court of Bermúdez Zacarías indefinitely after suspecting that they were also involved in the illegal visits in Altiplano. Their names were not made public in order to avoid disrupting the legal procedures and preserving presumption of innocence. According to evidence presented by the CJF, these 10 actuaries sought to or conducted 236 illegal visits at Altiplano with the complicity of prison guards. The CJF suspects that they acted as messengers for imprisoned drug lords, and smuggled drugs and other items on their behalf.\n\nOn 3 June 2018, the PGR publicized a MXN$1.5 million reward to anyone who provides information that leads to the arrest of the perpetrator(s). They stated that the reward would not be handed over to those who work in law enforcement and law.\n\n"}
{"id": "8512902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8512902", "title": "Murder of the Grimes sisters", "text": "Murder of the Grimes sisters\n\nThe murder of the Grimes sisters is a currently unsolved double murder dating from December 1956 when two sisters named Barbara and Patricia Grimes—aged 15 and 12 respectively—disappeared while traveling from a Brighton Park movie theater to their McKinley Park home. Their disappearance initiated one of the biggest missing persons investigations in the history of Chicago. The girls' nude bodies were discovered alongside a deserted road in Willow Springs on January 22, 1957.\n\nAlthough the sisters' autopsy reports concluded the two girls had been murdered within five hours of their last confirmed sighting, and that both girls had died of secondary shock, numerous individuals attested to having seen the girls alive in the weeks between the night of December 28 and the subsequent discovery of their bodies.\n\nThe murder of the Grimes sisters has been described by authors as a crime which \"shattered the innocence\" of Chicago. This case is also acknowledged as one of the most labor-intensive missing person and murder investigations in Cook County, and remains one of Chicago's most infamous cold cases.\n\nOn December 28, 1956, two of the seven children born to Joseph and Lorretta Grimes—sisters Barbara, 15, and Patricia, 12—opted to view a screening of the Elvis Presley film \"Love Me Tender\" at a Brighton theater. Both girls have been described as being inseparable sisters, and attentive students at the Thomas Kelly High School and St. Maurice high schools they respectively attended. They are also known to have been devoted fans of Elvis Presley. This particular occasion was the eleventh time the girls had viewed this particular film of Presley's, and the sisters are known to have left their residence at approximately 7:30 p.m., having promised their mother they would be home before midnight.\n\nThe Brighton Theater was located approximately one-and-a-half miles from the girls' McKinley Park home, and Barbara and Patricia are presumed to have had approximately $2.50 in their possession at the time they left their home, with Barbara having been instructed to keep 50 cents of this money in the zipper of her wallet should the two girls opt to view the second screening of this film scheduled to be broadcast at the theater that evening. It is unknown how the sisters actually traveled to the Brighton Theater on this particular date, although they had invariably either walked or traveled by bus to this destination on previous occasions.\n\nA school friend of Patricia Grimes named Dorothy Weinert would later inform investigators she had been seated behind the girls with her own younger sister during the film, although Weinert and her sister had left the theater at the intermission of the double feature screened at the Brighton Theater that night, at approximately 9:30 p.m. As they had done so, Dorothy saw the Grimes sisters queueing to purchase popcorn. The two had seemed in good spirits, and neither Weinert sister noticed anything untoward in their demeanor.\n\nBoth sisters stayed to view the second screening of \"Love Me Tender\", thus meaning they would be expected to return home at approximately 11:45 p.m. When the girls had not arrived home by midnight, their mother, Lorretta, sent their older sister, Theresa (aged 17), and brother Joey (aged 14) to wait by the bus stop located closest to the family home for their arrival. After three successive buses had driven by without either girl alighting at the designated stop, both siblings returned home. Having by this stage already unsuccessfully contacted the girls' friends in the hope her daughters may be at one of these addresses, and upon seeing the return of Theresa and Joey to the family home without their sisters, Lorretta Grimes filed missing person reports on her daughters with the Chicago Police Department at 2:15 a.m. on December 29.\n\nThe disappearance of Barbara and Patricia Grimes sparked one of the biggest missing person cases in the history of Cook County. A citywide search for the sisters was immediately initiated, and hundreds of police officers were subsequently assigned full-time to the search for the missing sisters. The officers from Cook County were assisted by colleagues from surrounding suburbs, and a task force devoted solely to locating the sisters was formed, with the ground search for the sisters initiated on December 29 being bolstered by hundreds of local volunteers. Police conducted door-to-door canvassing throughout the neighborhood where Barbara and Patricia were last seen, and numerous canals and rivers were dragged. In addition, more than 15,000 flyers were distributed to local homes, and parishioners of the church the sisters attended offered a $1,000 reward for information leading to their whereabouts. As a result of this co-ordinated investigation into the sisters' disappearance, 300,000 people would be interrogated, with some 2,000 individuals subjected to serious interrogation pertaining to their potential culpability, although the two arrests and charges brought against individuals who confessed to the crime subsequently collapsed, with one individual, Edward Benwell, asserting he had been coerced into providing a confession due to his being subjected to a prolonged interrogation.\n\nDespite these interrogations, confessions, and extensive media appeals producing many reported sightings of the girls, little in the way of hard evidence was yielded, although several teenagers who had been at the Brighton Theater on December 28 did inform investigators they had seen the two girls conversing with, then entering a car driven by a young man whose physical appearance had been similar to that of Elvis Presley. The vehicle described by these eyewitnesses was consistently described as being a Mercury model.\n\nPrior to the implementation of this task force, and against vehement protestations to the contrary from the girls' parents, several investigators initially assigned to the case theorized the sisters may either have run away from home or be voluntarily staying with boyfriends, and although the sisters' disappearance was front-page news by December 31, their disappearances would only be seriously considered as missing persons cases—and thus appropriately treated as such—by investigators after approximately one week had passed without family and friends receiving any form of contact from either girl. Nonetheless, extensive media appeals were conducted, imploring both sisters to return home, and for any eyewitnesses to contact police. Resultingly, numerous alleged sightings of the sisters would be reported to police as late as January 9, and these reports often described either or both of the girls as having been seen in various business establishments. These sightings supported several investigators' initial theories the girls had opted to leave home of their own accord.\n\nTheories also abounded that the sisters may possibly have traveled to Nashville, Tennessee, to see Elvis Presley in concert, or that the sisters had simply left their home of their own volition as a means of emulating Presley's lifestyle. In the event her daughters had actually been kidnapped, Lorretta Grimes publicly pleaded: \"If someone is holding them, please let the girls call me\", adding: \"I'll forgive them from the bottom of my heart.\"\n\nOn January 19, 1957, an official statement was issued from Presley's Graceland estate. This televised statement read: \"If you are good Presley fans, you'll go home and ease your mother's worries.\" Presley is also known to have made a direct radio plea to the Grimes sisters, imploring the girls to return home to their mother.\nOn January 22, 1957, following a rapid thaw of recent snowfall, a construction worker named Leonard Prescott spotted what he later described as being \"these flesh-colored things\" behind a guard rail as he drove along a rural country road named German Church Road, approximately 200 feet east of County Line Road in unincorporated Willow Springs. Initially unsure of the origin of what he had seen, and believing the forms may be mannequins, Prescott later returned to the site with his wife, Marie, who herself fainted upon taking a closer look at what her husband had earlier seen. The mannequins were actually the nude, frozen bodies of the Grimes girls, and the Prescotts immediately reported their findings to the Willow Springs Police Department.\n\nThe girls' bodies lay upon a flat, horizontal section of snow-covered ground directly behind the guard rail which extended for just before the incline of the embankment of a creek known simply as Devil's Creek. Barbara Grimes lay on her left side, with her legs drawn slightly up toward her torso. Patricia Grimes lay on her back, with her body covering her sister's head, and her own head turned sharply to the right. It is believed the sisters had most likely been driven to this location in a car, with their bodies then being dragged or lifted out of the vehicle, then placed or thrown behind the guard rail. Three wounds resembling those typically inflicted by ice-picks were discovered upon Barbara's chest and injuries resembling blunt force trauma were visible upon her face and head, whereas numerous injuries resembling bruises were also discovered upon Patricia's face and body. The girls' father, Joseph Grimes, was driven to the crime scene to formally identify both his daughters' bodies.\n\nFollowing Joseph Grimes' initial positive identification of the bodies, over 160 police officers from several suburban Chicago police departments—assisted by numerous local volunteers— conducted a search of the crime scene with the additional assistance of the Forest Preserves. This search uncovered little or no real evidence linked to the crime (any potential link any item discovered at the crime scene had to the murders has never been determined), and the search itself would later be severely criticized due to those organizing the search allowing untrained individuals to trample over any evidence which may have been at the location.\n\nThe decedents' autopsies were performed the day following their discovery. These autopsies would be performed by three experienced forensic pathologists who, following a five-hour examination of each body, were unable to reach agreement on either a date or a cause of death. These experts did determine via an examination of the sisters' stomach contents (which contained the approximate proportions of the last known meal and subsequent snack the sisters had eaten on the evening of December 28) that both sisters had most likely died within approximately five hours of the time they had last been seen alive at the Brighton Theater, thus affixing the most likely time of death in each instance to have been either the late evening of December 28 or the early morning of December 29. The cause of death in each case was ruled as being a combination of shock and exposure, although each pathologist reached this conclusion via a process of eliminating other causes. In addition, these experts concluded that many of the wounds discovered upon the girls' bodies had most likely been inflicted by rodents, with the actual puncture wounds having most likely been inflicted after death.\nNo obviously fatal wounds were discovered upon either girl's body, and toxicology reports revealed that neither girl had been drunk, drugged, or poisoned prior to her death. No items of the sisters' clothing were ever found, although their bodies were described by the pathologists as being markedly clean. The autopsies would also discover that Barbara Grimes had likely engaged in sexual intercourse—either consensually or unconsensually—around the time of her death, although no evidence of forcible molestation was found. The official death certificates of both Barbara and Patricia would list their cause of death as being murder; the specific means of which, in both cases, was listed as being \"secondary shock\" resulting from exposure to low temperatures, which had reduced each girl's body temperature \"below the critical level compatible with life.\"\n\nOne of the coroners to perform the autopsies, Walter McCarron, surmised the sisters' bodies had lain undiscovered behind the guard rail on German Church Road for many days before their eventual discovery, stating that the bodies' markedly preserved condition given the time interval between their disappearance and discovery had been due the frigid temperatures in the weeks prior to January 22, adding that this had been due to recent snowfalls and the frigid climate. McCarron also concluded the girls' bodies had lain undiscovered for more than three weeks because a layer of snow had blanketed the area on January 9, and that this snowfall had rapidly melted in the days immediately prior to their discovery.\n\nDespite these official conclusions, the Chief Investigator for the Cook County Coroner's Office, Harry Glos, disagreed with the official time of death, later stating to the media there had been numerous \"marks of violence on those girls' faces\" strongly indicative of their being the recipients of violence as opposed to postmortem rodent infestation. Glos also contended that a thin layer of ice found encrusted upon the sisters' bodies indicated they had most likely been alive until at least January 7, since only after that date would there have been sufficient snowfall to react with the girls' natural body heat in such a climate and thus create the layer of ice discovered upon their nude bodies in this location. Glos contended this fact proved their bodies had been warm when their bodies had been deposited beside German Church Road, since only after January 7 had there been sufficient snow to create such an ice layer upon and around their bodies.\n\nIn addition to these facts, Glos also stated that both girls had been subjected to sexual assaults throughout their period of captivity, adding that the autopsy conducted upon Patricia Grimes had discovered semen within the vaginal fluid swathed from her body, and that curdled milk had also been found in Barbara Grimes' stomach, when she is not known to have drunk milk either at her home or at the cinema on the evening of December 28.\n\nThe chief investigator of the Cook County coroner's office, Harry Glos, strongly believed an official suspect in the case named Edward Bedwell had been the individual who had committed the sisters' murder. Glos asserted the wound marks noted upon the girls' bodies in their autopsies had neither been adequately investigated or considered. Glos would also further assert his opinion the wounding and assault marks had been evidence that the sisters had been beaten prior to their murder and, in tandem with the evidence of sexual activity, were thus in line with the claims Edward Bedwell provided to investigators in his January 1957 interrogations. Harry Glos would also claim that official investigators had been refusing to disclose these and potentially other lurid details of the case due to a possible desire to protect the girls' reputations and/or spare their mother's feelings. Similar allegations would be repeated in later years by others, some of whom claimed to have both seen the original case files, and to have interviewed numerous McKinley Park residents who alleged both girls had been in the habit of spending free time outside bars on 36th Street and Archer Avenue, where they regularly persuaded older men to purchase alcoholic drinks inside these premises and deliver the beverages to them outside the premises.\n\nDespite Glos's insistence that the pathologists had \"[taken] the girls off Madison Street and put them into respectability\", investigators connected to the case continued to insist that there had been no evidence of either girl being disreputable, or the recipient of extreme violence or sexual molestation prior to her death.\n\nAfter refusing to retract his statements, Glos was fired by Coroner Walter E. McCarron on February 15, although he (Glos) would insist his firing had been politically motivated. Nonetheless, Glos would later be deputized by Sheriff Joseph Lohman—who concurred with Glos's conviction the girls had likely been beaten and tortured by a sexual predator who had lured them into his vehicle upon an innocent pretense—to continue to work on the case without pay.\n\nBetween the last confirmed sighting of the sisters at the Brighton Theater on December 28, 1956, and the subsequent discovery of their bodies 25 days later, several unconfirmed sightings of the girls both in and outside the City of Chicago were reported to the Chicago Police Department. The most widely reported sightings include the following:\n\n\n\nEdward Lee \"Bennie\" Bedwell was a 21-year-old semi-literate drifter, originally from Tennessee, who had been evicted from his family's East Garfield Park home in November 1956 and in the weeks preceding the Grimes sisters' murder had occasionally earned money by working as a part-time dishwasher in a Chicago skid row restaurant. Bedwell was a tall individual who allegedly bore a strong resemblance to Elvis Presley. According to John and Minnie Duros (the owners of the restaurant where Bedwell had been employed), he and another young male had been at her premises in the company of two girls who physically resembled the Grimes sisters in the early morning of December 30. Duros conveyed this information to police on January 24. Bedwell was arrested thereafter and subjected to interrogation for three days.\n\nInitially, Bedwell was insistent that John and Minnie Duros and a patron named Rene Echols (who had corroborated the Duros's eyewitness statements) were mistaken in their identification of the girls he had been in the company of on December 30, although he was formally charged with the sisters' murders on January 27, 1957, having signed a 14-page confession in which he claimed that he (Bedwell) and a 28-year-old acquaintance of his named William Cole Willingham had indeed been in the company of the Grimes sisters on December 30, having also retained their company until January 7—typically drinking in various West Madison Street skid row saloons. According to Bedwell, after several days in the girls' willing company, shortly after he and his companion had fed the sisters hot dogs, they had extensively beaten both girls, before throwing their nude bodies into a snow-filled ditch when both sisters had refused their sexual advances. Upon reading Bedwell's confession, Lorretta Grimes was quoted upon as stating: \"It's a lie. My girls wouldn't be on West Madison Street. They didn't even know where it was.\"\n\nWillingham admitted he had been in the company of Bedwell and two girls in the early hours of December 30, but denied the girls had been the Grimes sisters. He also emphatically denied any involvement in the murders; Bedwell himself would later recant the confession he had provided to investigators, stating that he had only provided a confession after being held in custody for four days in the mistaken belief the police would subsequently release him if he did so.\n\nThe autopsy reports upon both girls also supported Bedwell's recantation, as no alcohol or hot dogs were found in either victim's blood or digestive systems, nor had the girls been beaten to death. Furthermore, Bedwell is also known to have clocked in at Ajax Consolidated Company, his place of employment, from 4:19 p.m. on December 28, 1956, to 12:30 am on December 29, covering the time period of the sisters' most likely abduction, with further records confirming Bedwell had been working in Cicero on the date he claimed to have murdered them. On February 6, Bedwell was freed on a $20,000 bond paid for by an individual from Champaign.\n\nThe same year of his acquittal, Bedwell would be tried and acquitted of the 1956 rape of a 13-year-old girl in Oak Hill, Florida. He died in November 1972.\n\nMax Fleig was a 17-year-old suspect in the sisters' murders. Initially considered one of the prime suspects, due to his age, Fleig was protected by contemporary Illinois laws which prevented juveniles from subjection to polygraph tests. Nonetheless, Chicago Police Captain Ralph Petacque persuaded the teenager to submit to an unofficial polygraph test, which Fleig voluntarily undertook. In the course of this unofficial polygraph test, Fleig allegedly confessed to the murders. With no legal means of using this test as evidence against Fleig, police were forced to release him without charge.\n\nIn addition, police were unable to charge Fleig with the murders due to there being a lack of physical evidence corroborating his unofficial polygraph confession that he had kidnapped and subsequently killed the sisters.\n\nFleig was later jailed for the unrelated murder of a young woman.\n\nWalter Kranz, a 53-year-old steamfitter and self-proclaimed psychic, phoned a switchboard operator at Chicago's central police complaint room on January 15 to inform the operator of his conviction that both sisters were deceased and that their bodies could be found in an unincorporated area of Lyons Township. Kranz refused to disclose his name to the operator in this phone call, simply stating that he had experienced this revelation in a dream, before terminating the call. Nonetheless, the operator was able to trace the call to a location close to his home.\n\nThe park described by Kranz in his telephone call would prove to be approximately one mile from the true location where the girls' bodies would be just found one week later. When questioned, Kranz informed police that several members of his family and ancestors possessed psychic powers, and that he had experienced this particular vision after a night of heavy drinking.\n\nAlthough initially considered by police to be their \"number one suspect\" in the murders, and with handwriting experts also determining he may have written a ransom note received by the girls' mother prior to the discovery of her daughters' bodies, Kranz denied any involvement in the sisters' abduction and murder. After being subjected to multiple interrogations, he was released.\nIn the weeks between the disappearance and subsequent discovery of her daughters' bodies, Lorretta Grimes was unable to work and thus earn money to raise her children and pay the mortgage upon her home. Friends and neighbors of the Grimes family—plus classmates and teachers of the sisters—organized various initiatives to raise funds for the family. Additional funds would be raised via the local press and council, with the donations raised via all various methods ranging from 50 cents to $500. Consequently, all funds raised would enable the Grimes family to both pay the remaining mortgage on their home and bury Barbara and Patricia's bodies.\n\nFollowing a wake held in the girls' memory on January 25, and a Holy Mass conducted at St. Maurice Church, Barbara and Patricia Grimes were laid to rest at the Holy Sepulchre Cemetery in Worth, Illinois, on January 28. All fees for the service were waived by the Wollschlager Funeral Home, and the sisters are buried side by side. Among those to serve pallbearers at this service were classmates of Barbara's.\n\nIn May 1957, Lorretta Grimes received an anonymous telephone call from an individual who claimed to have undressed and killed her daughters. Although the Grimes family had received numerous hoax phone calls following the girls' disappearance, this particular caller, having ridiculed police efforts to affix blame upon suspects such as Edward Bedwell, ended his phone call with information indicating he may indeed have been the perpetrator: \"I know something about your little girl that no one else knows, not even the police. The smallest girl's toes were crossed at the feet!\" This caller then laughed before terminating the call.\n\nOne year after the murder of her daughters, Lorretta Grimes publicly stated her conviction her daughters had been murdered by an individual they had known, stating that although the weather had been bitterly cold on the night of their abduction, Barbara and Patricia would never have entered a vehicle driven by an individual unknown to them, regardless of any discomfort.\n\nJoseph Lohman, the Cook County Sheriff who strongly believed the Grimes sisters had been beaten, tortured and murdered by a sexual predator who had lured them into a vehicle on the evening of their disappearance, died of natural causes in 1969. At the time of his death, Lohman was the Dean of the School of Criminology in Berkeley.\n\nOn the 18th anniversary of the disappearance of the Grimes sisters, Ernest Spiotto, the sole detective who had been involved in the investigation of the girls' murders from the very beginning and who remained assigned to the investigation, again announced to the media the police had no credible suspects in the case. Officially, the murders of the Grimes sisters remain unsolved, although this is an open case.\n\nThe Grimes sisters' younger brother, James Grimes, who was just 11 at the time of his sisters' murder, stated in 2013 that he welcomed what he saw as a public \"reopening of the case,\" stating: \"I just assumed it was never going to be solved. [But] maybe there's hope.\"\n\nIn 2013, a retired West Chicago police officer named Raymond Johnson began a personal investigation into the case. Johnson—considered by many to be an expert on this case—had become interested in the Grimes sisters' case in 2010, when he had been researching a book he had been writing about the city's history. Having extensively researched the case, Johnson has stated his conviction that the case is still a solvable one, but only with public assistance, and that he believes that the perpetrator of this crime had been a 23-year-old self-confessed child killer named Charles LeRoy Melquist, who had been considered a suspect in the sisters' abduction and murder in 1957.\n\nMelquist had been convicted of the September 1958 murder of a 15-year-old girl named Bonnie Leigh Scott, whom he had known prior to her murder, and whose decapitated body had been found two months after her disappearance less than 10 miles from where the Grimes sisters' bodies had been discovered. Following the discovery of Scott's body, investigators had noted similarities in this murder and body disposal, and that of the Grimes sisters. Nonetheless, Melquist was never questioned as to his potential culpability in the Grimes sisters' murders, as his attorney had forbade him to be subject to questioning.\n\nThe day after the body of Bonnie Leigh Scott was discovered, Lorretta Grimes received a phone call from an individual who, on this occasion, claimed responsibility for Scott's murder. On this occasion, the caller had stated: \"I've committed another perfect crime ... This is another one those cops won't solve and they're not going [to affix blame onto] Bedwell or Barry Cook.\" Lorretta Grimes would remain adamant until her death this caller had been the same individual who had contacted her in May 1957 and had revealed the deformity upon one of her daughters' feet which had never been released to the press or the public, stating: \"I will never forget that voice.\"\n\nCharles Melquist was never charged with his alleged involvement in the deaths of the Grimes sisters. He died in 2010.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21620350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21620350", "title": "Norman Biggs", "text": "Norman Biggs\n\nNorman Witchell Biggs (3 November 1870 – 27 February 1908) was a Welsh international rugby union wing who played club rugby for Cardiff and county rugby for Glamorgan. Both Biggs and his brother Selwyn played international rugby for Wales, though they never played together in the same match for Wales. Biggs also played cricket for Glamorgan and in 1893 was part of a team that took on Cardiff in a two-day match; he faced his brother Selwyn, who was a member of the Cardiff team.\n\nBiggs is notable for being a member of the 1893 Triple Crown winning Wales team, being the youngest capped player to represent the Wales international team, a record he held for over a century, and the unusual circumstances of his death by poison arrow.\n\nNorman Biggs was born in Cardiff to John and Emily Biggs. His father, who lived at Park Place in the centre of the city, was a brewer by trade who owned businesses in Cardiff and Bristol. Biggs was privately educated at several proprietary schools including Lewinsdale School in Weston-super-Mare, before matriculating to University College Cardiff and later Trinity Hall, Cambridge, playing rugby for both university teams. It was reported that Biggs should have won a sporting 'Blue' while at Cambridge, but an injury to his ribs ruled him out. As well as playing rugby, Biggs was a keen sprinter and he was able to run 100 yards in even time, and was able to beat world sprint champion Charlton Monypenny at this distance. On returning to Cardiff he joined his father's brewing business. In 1887, Biggs played his first senior game for Cardiff RFC, in a match against Penarth. Biggs came from a large sporting family and was one of six brothers to play rugby for Cardiff. His most notable brothers were Selwyn, who also played for Wales, and Cecil, who captained Cardiff during their 1904/05 season.\n\nBiggs gained his first cap for Wales when he was selected to play against the touring New Zealand Natives in 1888 at St. Helen's Ground. At the time Biggs was 18 years and 49 days old, making him the youngest Wales international, a record that would last for more than a century before being broken by Tom Prydie in 2010. The New Zealanders were the first touring team from the Southern Hemisphere and brought with them a reputation for over-vigorous play. Biggs himself was described by the press as \"palpably nervous\" before the kick-off, though many of the backs appeared withdrawn, apart from William Stadden and James Webb appearing calm. Not only did Biggs have the Māori opposition to contend with, the Swansea crowd were also hostile towards their own team, as they felt the Swansea backs should have been selected instead. Biggs, as an inexperienced new cap from rivals Cardiff, was picked out by the crowd as one of those players unworthy of his place and was heckled. Nonetheless, the Welsh team were victorious, with tries from Thomas, Towers and Hannan and a single conversion from Webb. A week later on 29 December, Biggs faced the same tourists, this time as part of the Cardiff team. Biggs had been disappointing in his international debut, but regained his form on the pitch at the Cardiff Arms Park. Within 90 seconds of the start of the match, Biggs scored a \"sparkling try\". Biggs should have scored again, but dropped the ball after crossing the line in the slippery conditions. Cardiff won by a goal and a try to one try.\n\nLater in the 1888–89 season, Biggs was reselected for the Welsh team as part of the 1889 Home Nations Championship. He was not chosen for the first game of the season against Scotland, but was accepted for the second and final game to Ireland. Under the captaincy of Arthur Gould, Biggs was partnered on the wing by Abel Davies of London Welsh. Wales lost to Ireland by two tries to nil, the first time the Irish had won on Welsh soil. Biggs and Davies were both dropped for the next season.\n\nIt took Biggs until the 1892 Home Nations Championship to regain his place in the national team, again he was chosen for the final game of the tournament against Ireland. Although the Welsh backs contained the talents of Billy Bancroft, brothers Evan and David James and Arthur and Bert Gould, the Welsh team were outclassed by Victor Le Fanu's Ireland. It was the first time Wales had lost all three games in the Championship. Despite the loss Biggs was reselected for all three games of the 1893 tournament, all under the captaincy of \"Monkey\" Gould. In a reversal of fortunes from the previous season, Wales managed to win all three matches, lifting the Triple Crown for the first time in the country's history. Biggs played an important role during the Triple Crown winning season, scoring two tries, one each in the games against England and Scotland. The 1893 away game against Scotland is described as Biggs' best international match and 'his speed and general play were the main factors in securing the first victory of the Principality over Scotland at Scotland'.\n\nBiggs played in two more internationals for Wales, both in the 1894 Championship and both resulted in losses. The first game of the 1894 Championship was against England, and Wales suffered a heavy defeat, losing 24–3. In an after match interview Biggs was asked why he had failed to tackle Harry Bradshaw, who scored the first try; Biggs responded \"Tackle him? It was as much as I could do to get out of his way!\". In his final game against Ireland, Biggs was part of an all Cardiff three-quarters, along with Tom Pearson, Dai Fitzgerald and Jack Elliott. The very next international saw Biggs' younger brother Selwyn selected for the first time, the brothers missing each other by just one match.\n\nWales\n\nBiggs played for Cardiff from the 1886–87 season through to 1898–99, though not continuously, spending some time in the early 1890s in London. He played in 166 matches for Cardiff, was one of the highest scoring players the club had produced. He scored five or more try conversions in a single match on seven occasions, six in the same season (1893–94), against Gloucester, Bristol, London Welsh, Penygraig, Exeter and Cardiff & D.R.U. The 1893–94 season saw Biggs score 58 conversions, 25 tries and two dropped goals bringing his points tally to 199 points. This remained a club record until the 1972–73 season when it was surpassed by John Davies. Biggs ended his Cardiff career with 107 tries, four less than his brother Cecil.\n\nBiggs played for several club teams throughout his career, including England's Richmond and Welsh exile club London Welsh. On 24 December 1890, Biggs played for London Welsh in a match against his longterm club Cardiff. The London Welsh team produced a 'devastating display' to beat Cardiff by a single try. At county level he represented Glamorgan where he played alongside his brother, and later turned out for Somerset. During the 1893/94 season Biggs was made club captain of Cardiff, and in the same season he led Cardiff against the invitational team the Barbarians, not only winning the game but also scoring two tries and kicking a successful conversion. The same season as he faced the Barbarians with Cardiff, Biggs was invited to join the tourists; one of four of the Biggs brothers to play for the team. The last notable club Biggs represented was Bath, captaining the senior team during the 1899–1900 season.\n\nIn 1894 Biggs was invited to play for the Barbarians, and on 2 April, he faced Rockcliff, playing alongside his brother Selwyn, who was also making his Barbarian's debut. Biggs played twice more for the Barbarians, both matches against Bath Rugby. In the 1894 encounter Biggs converted a try in a 14-0 victory, while the 1896 match saw Biggs score a try and two conversions in a 13-13 draw.\n\nAfter the outbreak of the Second Boer War, Biggs volunteered for active service and was posted as a private to the Glamorgan Yeomanry, which formed 4 Company, 1st Battalion Imperial Yeomanry for service in South Africa. Biggs later reflected how life in the Yeomanry was a constant struggle, and he engaged in 57 skirmishes with his unit coming under daily sniper fire. He was wounded near Vrede on 11 October 1900, when he was shot through the thigh whilst patrolling. He was returned to England on the hospital ship \"Simla\" which left Cape Town 26 November and arrived at Southampton on 18 December. He was then commissioned as a second lieutenant on 16 February 1901. On 17 April he was promoted lieutenant and attached to 4th Battalion Imperial Yeomanry. Later in the year he either received a further wound, or fell ill, since \"The Times\" reported on 26 September that he had been discharged from hospital and returned to duty in the week ending 8 September. He returned home on the steamship \"Goorkha\", which left Cape Town on 19 July. He relinquished his commission on 12 September, and was granted the honorary rank of lieutenant, and permission to continue wearing his uniform.\n\nBiggs was then commissioned as a lieutenant in the 3rd Battalion Welsh Regiment on 13 June 1903. He was appointed an Instructor of Musketry on 10 May 1905, He was then seconded to the Colonial Office and posted to Northern Nigeria as a superintendent of police in a military area on 10 February 1906, by that time he had also been promoted captain. He was killed in 1908 when he was struck by a poison arrow, while on patrol in Kebbi State, Nigeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2926443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2926443", "title": "Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)", "text": "Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)\n\nOak Hill Cemetery is a historic cemetery located in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, D.C., in the United States. It was founded in 1848 and completed in 1853, and is a prime example of a garden cemetery. A large number of famous politicians, business people, military people, diplomats, and philanthropists are buried at Oak Hill, and the cemetery has a number of Victorian-style memorials and monuments. Oak Hill has two structures which are listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the Oak Hill Cemetery Chapel and the Van Ness Mausoleum.\n\nThe cemetery's interment of \"Willie\" Lincoln, deceased son of president Abraham Lincoln, was the inspiration for the Man Booker Prize-winning novel \"Lincoln in the Bardo\" by George Saunders.\n\nOak Hill began in 1848 as part of the rural cemetery movement, directly inspired by the success of Mount Auburn Cemetery near Boston, Massachusetts, when William Wilson Corcoran (also founder of the Corcoran Gallery of Art) purchased of land. He then organized the Cemetery Company to oversee Oak Hill; it was incorporated by act of Congress on March 3, 1849.\n\nOak Hill's chapel was built in 1849 by noted architect James Renwick, who also designed the Smithsonian Institution's Castle on Washington Mall and St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York. His one-story rectangular chapel measures 23 by 41 feet (7×12 m) and sits on the cemetery's highest ridge. It is built of black granite, in Gothic Revival style, with exterior trim in the same red Seneca sandstone used for the Castle.\n\nBy 1851, landscape designer Captain George F. de la Roche finished laying out the winding paths and terraces descending into Rock Creek valley. When initial construction was completed in 1853, Corcoran had spent over $55,000 on the cemetery's landscaping and architecture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3647801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3647801", "title": "Old Croghan Man", "text": "Old Croghan Man\n\nOld Croghan Man (\"Seanfhear Chruacháin\" in Irish) is the name given to a well-preserved Iron Age bog body found in an Irish bog in June 2003. The remains are named after Croghan Hill, north of Daingean, County Offaly, near where the body was found. The find is on display in the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin. \nOld Croghan Man was found three months after a similar find, dubbed Clonycavan Man, in County Meath.\n\nThe man is calculated (based on his arm span) to have stood approximately tall: which is considered to be fairly rare for the period when he lived. The man's apparently manicured nails led to speculation that he was not someone who engaged in manual labour, and possibly therefore of high status.\n\nHis last meal (analysed from the contents in his stomach) was believed to have been wheat and buttermilk. However, he was shown to have had a meat rich diet for at least the 4 months prior to his death. Scars on his lungs suggest he may have suffered from pleurisy.\n\nOld Croghan Man is believed to have died between 362 BCE and 175 BCE, making the body over 2,000 years old. Evidence indicates that the man was in his early twenties when he was killed.\n\nThe body was naked except for a plaited leather band around his left arm. This likely indicated high status.\n\nThe man was buried at a bog (likely once a lake) at the foot of an ancient hill that was used for kingship ceremonies. A 2014 documentary suggested that the man was once a king and was sacrificed by Druids due to poor weather or harvests. These ancient tribes may have believed that this was caused by the failure of the king and he was responsible.\n\nThe man is believed to have died from a stab wound to the chest. He had been decapitated and had his body cut in half. He also has an injury to one arm, possible evidence that he tried to defend himself. A similar wound has been seen on the Cashel Man, who was found in 2011, also in Ireland.\n\nThe body was found to have deep cuts under each nipple. Several theories have been suggested to explain this, including that the damage was caused (after death) by conditions in the bog, that the cuts were indicative of torture while the man was alive, or that the nipples were deliberately mutilated (either before or after death) for symbolic purposes. The latter theory, put forward by Eamonn Kelly of the National Museum of Ireland, suggests that the mutilation was a symbolic gesture to mark the man as a rejected ruler. Other theories suggest that Old Croghan Man and other bog bodies were sacrifices to gods of fertility or harvest, and killed and buried to ensure good yields of cereals and milk.\n\nThe arm-ring found with the body was made from waterlogged leather, strands of fibres and four bronze mounts. According to Louise Mumford of the National Museum, the leather ring was made with two strands of leather joined together through numerous small slits.\n\nThe ring was initially removed from the body and wet cleaned to remove elements like peat from the leather. To prevent further decay of the waterlogged leather work and mould growth the arm-ring was stored in a 20% solution of glycerol and de-ionised water for two weeks in a process called consolidation. After drying and further chemical cleaning and treatment to prevent corrosion, the arm-ring was returned to the body for display.\n\nCroghan Hill is known as Bri Eile in Irish myth. In \"The Boyhood Deeds of Fionn,\" we are told \"At that time there was a very beautiful maiden in Bri Ele, that is to say, in the fairy-knoll of Bri Ele, and the name of that maiden was Ele. The men of Ireland were at feud about that maiden. One man after another went to woo her. Every year on Samain the wooing used to take place; for the fairy-mounds of Ireland were always open about Samain; for on Samain nothing could ever be hidden in the fairy-mounds. To each man that went to woo her this used to happen: one of his people was slain. This was done to mark the occasion, nor was it ever found out who did it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24702", "title": "Peace", "text": "Peace\n\nPeace is the concept of harmonious well-being and freedom from hostile aggression. In a social sense, peace is commonly used to mean a lack of conflict (such as war) and freedom from fear of violence between individuals or heterogeneous (relatively foreign or distinct) groups.\n\nThroughout history some of the most extraordinary and benevolent leaders have used peace talks to establish a certain type of behavioral restraint that has resulted in the establishment of regional peace or economic growth through various forms of agreements or peace treaties. Such behavioral restraint has often resulted in de-escalation of rhetorical and physical conflicts, greater economic interactivity, and consequently substantial prosperity. The avoidance of war or violent hostility can be the result of thoughtful active listening and communication that enables greater genuine mutual understanding and therefore compromise. Leaders often benefit tremendously from the prestige of peace talks and treaties that can result in substantially enhanced popularity.\n\n“Psychological peace” (such as a peaceful thinking and emotions) is perhaps less well defined yet often a necessary precursor to establishing \"behavioral peace.\" Peaceful behavior sometimes results from a \"peaceful inner disposition.\" Some have expressed the belief that peace can be initiated with a certain quality of inner tranquility that does not depend upon the uncertainties of daily life for its existence. The acquisition of such a \"peaceful internal disposition\" for oneself and others can contribute to resolving of otherwise seemingly irreconcilable competing interests.\n\nBecause psychological peace can be important to Behavioral peace, leaders sometimes de-escalate conflicts through compliments and generosity. Small gestures of rhetorical and actual generosity have been shown in psychological research to often result in larger levels of reciprocal generosity (and even virtuous circles of generosity). Such benevolent selfless behavior can eventually become a pattern that may become a lasting basis for improved relations between individuals and groups of people. Peace talks often start without preconditions and preconceived notions, because they are more than just negotiating opportunities. They place attention on peace itself over and above what may have been previously perceived as the competing needs or interests of separate individuals or parties to elicit peaceful feelings and therefore produce benevolent behavioral results. Peace talks are sometimes also uniquely important learning opportunities for the individuals or parties involved.\n\nThe term-'peace' originates most recently from the Anglo-French \"pes,\" and the Old French \"pais\", meaning \"peace, reconciliation, silence, agreement\" (11th century). But, \"Pes\" itself comes from the Latin \"pax\", meaning \"peace, compact, agreement, treaty of peace, tranquility, absence of hostility, harmony.\" The English word came into use in various personal greetings from c.1300 as a translation of the Hebrew word shalom, which, according to Jewish theology, comes from a Hebrew verb meaning 'to be complete, whole'. Although 'peace' is the usual translation, however, it is an incomplete one, because 'shalom,' which is also cognate with the Arabic \"salaam\", has multiple other meanings in addition to peace, including justice, good health, safety, well-being, prosperity, equity, security, good fortune, and friendliness, as well as simply the greetings, \"hello\" and \"goodbye\". At a personal level, peaceful behaviors are kind, considerate, respectful, just, and tolerant of others' beliefs and behaviors — tending to manifest goodwill.\n\nThis latter understanding of peace can also pertain to an individual's introspective sense or concept of her/himself, as in being \"at peace\" in one's own mind, as found in European references from c.1200. The early English term is also used in the sense of \"quiet\", reflecting calm, serene, and meditative approaches to family or group relationships that avoid quarreling and seek tranquility — an absence of disturbance or agitation.\n\nIn many languages, the word for peace is also used as a greeting or a farewell, for example the Hawaiian word aloha, as well as the Arabic word \"salaam\". In English the word peace is occasionally used as a farewell, especially for the dead, as in the phrase \"rest in peace\".\n\nWolfgang Dietrich in his research project which led to the book \"The Palgrave International Handbook of Peace Studies\" (2011) maps the different meanings of peace in different languages and from different regions across the world. Later, in his \"Interpretations of Peace in History and Culture\" (2012), he groups the different meanings of peace into five peace families: Energetic/Harmony, Moral/Justice, Modern/Security, Postmodern/Truth, and Transrational, a synthesis of the positive sides of the four previous families and the society.\n\nReligious beliefs often seek to identify and address the basic problems of human life, including the conflicts between, among, and within persons and societies. In ancient Greek-speaking areas the virtue of peace was personified as the goddess Eirene, and in Latin-speaking areas as the goddess Pax. Her image was typically represented by ancient sculptors as that of a full-grown woman, usually with a horn of plenty and scepter and sometimes with a torch or olive leaves.\n\nChristians, who believe Jesus of Nazareth to be the Jewish Messiah called Christ (meaning Anointed One), interpret Isaiah 9:6 as a messianic prophecy of Jesus in which he is called the \"Prince of Peace.\" In the Gospel of Luke, Zechariah celebrates his son John: And you, child, will be called prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give his people knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins, because of the tender mercy of our God by which the daybreak from on high will visit us to shine on those who sit in darkness and death's shadow, to guide our feet into the path of peace.\n\nNumerous pontifical documents on the Holy Rosary document a continuity of views of the Popes to have confidence in the Holy Rosary as a means to foster peace. Subsequently, to the Encyclical Mense maio,1965, in which he urged the practice of the Holy Rosary, \"the prayer so dear to the Virgin and so much recommended by the Supreme Pontiffs,\" and as reaffirmed in the encyclical Christi Matri, 1966, to implore peace, Pope Paul VI stated in the apostolic Recurrens mensis, October 1969, that the Rosary is a prayer that favors the great gift of peace.\n\nIslam derived from the root word salam which literally means peace. Muslims are called followers of Islam. Quran clearly stated \"Those who have believed and whose hearts are assured by the remembrance of Allah. Unquestionably, by the remembrance of Allah, hearts are assured\" and stated \"O you who have believed, when you are told, \"Space yourselves\" in assemblies, then make space; Allah will make space for you. And when you are told, \"Arise,\" then arise; Allah will raise those who have believed among you and those who were given knowledge, by degrees. And Allah is Acquainted with what you do.\" \n\nBuddhists believe that peace can be attained once all suffering ends. They regard all suffering as stemming from cravings (in the extreme, greed), aversions (fears), or delusions. To eliminate such suffering and achieve personal peace, followers in the path of the Buddha adhere to a set of teachings called the Four Noble Truths — a central tenet in Buddhist philosophy.\n\nHindu texts contain the following passages:\n\nPsychological or inner peace (i.e. peace of mind) refers to a state of being internally or spiritually at peace, with sufficient knowledge and understanding to keep oneself calm in the face of apparent discord or stress. Being internally \"at peace\" is considered by many to be a healthy mental state, or homeostasis and to be the opposite of feeling stressful, mentally anxious, or emotionally unstable. Within the meditative traditions, the psychological or inward achievement of \"peace of mind\" is often associated with bliss and happiness.\n\nPeace of mind, serenity, and calmness are descriptions of a disposition free from the effects of stress. In some meditative traditions, inner peace is believed to be a state of consciousness or enlightenment that may be cultivated by various types of meditation, prayer, t'ai chi ch'uan (太极拳, tàijíquán), yoga, or other various types of mental or physical disciplines. Many such practices refer to this peace as an experience of knowing oneself. An emphasis on finding one's inner peace is often associated with traditions such as Buddhism, Hinduism, and some traditional Christian contemplative practices such as monasticism, as well as with the New Age movement.\n\nSatyagraha ( ) is a philosophy and practice of nonviolent resistance developed by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. He deployed satyagraha techniques in campaigns for Indian independence and also during his earlier struggles in South Africa.\n\nThe word \"satyagraha\" itself was coined through a public contest that Gandhi sponsored through the newspaper he published in South Africa, 'Indian Opinion', when he realized that neither the common, contemporary Hindu language nor the English language contained a word which fully expressed his own meanings and intentions when he talked about his nonviolent approaches to conflict. According to Gandhi's autobiography, the contest winner was Maganlal Gandhi (presumably no relation), who submitted the entry 'sadagraha', which Gandhi then modified to 'satyagraha'. Etymologically, this Hindic word means 'truth-firmness', and is commonly translated as 'steadfastness in the truth' or 'truth-force'.\nSatyagraha theory also influenced Martin Luther King Jr. during the campaigns he led during the civil rights movement in the United States. The theory of satyagraha sees means and ends as inseparable. Therefore, it is contradictory to try to use violence to obtain peace. As Gandhi wrote: \"They say, 'means are, after all, means'. I would say, 'means are, after all, everything'. As the means so the end...\" A contemporary quote sometimes attributed to Gandhi, but also to A. J. Muste, sums it up: 'There is no way to peace; peace is the way.'\n\nSince classical times, it has been noted that peace has sometimes been achieved by the victor over the vanquished by the imposition of ruthless measures. In his book \"Agricola\" the Roman historian Tacitus includes eloquent and vicious polemics against the rapacity and greed of Rome. One, that Tacitus says is by the Caledonian chieftain Calgacus, ends \"Auferre trucidare rapere falsis nominibus imperium, atque ubi solitudinem faciunt, pacem appellant.\" (To ravage, to slaughter, to usurp under false titles, they call empire; and where they make a desert, they call it peace. — Oxford Revised Translation).\n\nDiscussion of peace is therefore at the same time a discussion on the form of such peace. Is it simple absence of mass organized killing (war) or does peace require a particular morality and justice? (\"just peace\").\nA peace must be seen at least in two forms: \n\nMore recently, advocates for radical reform in justice systems have called for a public policy adoption of non-punitive, non-violent Restorative Justice methods, and many of those studying the success of these methods, including a United Nations working group on Restorative Justice, have attempted to re-define justice in terms related to peace. From the late 2000s on, a Theory of Active Peace has been proposed which conceptually integrates justice into a larger peace theory.\n\nThe longest continuing period of neutrality among currently existing states is observed in Switzerland, which has had an official policy of neutrality and general peace since 1815 (for years as of 20). This was made possible partly by the periods of relative peace in Europe and the world known as Pax Britannica (1815-1914), Pax Europaea/Pax Americana (since 1950s), and Pax Atomica (also since the 1950s).\n\nOther examples of long periods of peace are:\n\nPacifism is the categorical opposition to the behaviors of war or violence as a means of settling disputes or of gaining advantage. Pacifism covers a spectrum of views ranging from the belief that international disputes can and should all be resolved via peaceful behaviors; to calls for the abolition of various organizations which tend to institutionalize aggressive behaviors, such as the military, or arms manufacturers; to opposition to any organization of society that might rely in any way upon governmental force. Such groups which sometimes oppose the governmental use of force include anarchists and libertarians. Absolute pacifism opposes violent behavior under all circumstance, including defense of self and others.\n\nPacifism may be based on moral principles (a deontological view) or pragmatism (a consequentialist view). Principled pacifism holds that all forms of violent behavior are inappropriate responses to conflict, and are morally wrong. Pragmatic pacifism holds that the costs of war and inter-personal violence are so substantial that better ways of resolving disputes must be found. Pacifists in general reject theories of Just War. Pacifism tends to place its initial focus on the need for a \"peaceful behavior\" ahead of any focus on the need for a \"peaceful inner disposition.\"\n\nThe United Nations (UN) is an international organization whose stated aims are to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights, and achieving world peace. The UN was founded in 1945 after World War II to replace the League of Nations, to stop wars between countries, and to provide a platform for dialogue.\n\nThe UN, after approval by the Security Council, sends peacekeepers to regions where armed conflict has recently ceased or paused to enforce the terms of peace agreements and to discourage combatants from resuming hostilities. Since the UN does not maintain its own military, peacekeeping forces are voluntarily provided by member states of the UN. The forces, also called the \"Blue Helmets\", who enforce UN accords are awarded United Nations Medals, which are considered international decorations instead of military decorations. The peacekeeping force as a whole received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1988.\n\nThe principal forerunner of the United Nations was the League of Nations. It was created at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, and emerged from the advocacy of Woodrow Wilson and other idealists during World War I. The Covenant of the League of Nations was included in the Treaty of Versailles in 1919, and the League was based in Geneva until its dissolution as a result of World War II and replacement by the United Nations. The high hopes widely held for the League in the 1920s, for example amongst members of the League of Nations Union, gave way to widespread disillusion in the 1930s as the League struggled to respond to challenges from Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Japan.\n\nOne of the most important scholars of the League of Nations was Sir Alfred Zimmern. Like many of the other British enthusiasts for the League, such as Gilbert Murray and Florence Stawell - the so-called \"Greece and peace\" set - he came to this from the study of the classics.\n\nThe creation of the League of Nations, and the hope for informed public opinion on international issues (expressed for example by the Union for Democratic Control during World War I), also saw the creation after World War I of bodies dedicated to understanding international affairs, such as the Council on Foreign Relations in New York and the Royal Institute of International Affairs at Chatham House in London. At the same time, the academic study of international relations started to professionalize, with the creation of the first professorship of international politics, named for Woodrow Wilson, at Aberystwyth, Wales, in 1919.\n\nThe late 19th century idealist advocacy of peace which led to the creation of the Nobel Peace Prize, the Rhodes Scholarships, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and ultimately the League of Nations, also saw the re-emergence of the ancient Olympic ideal. Led by Pierre de Coubertin, this culminated in the holding in 1896 of the first of the modern Olympic Games.\n\nThe highest honour awarded to peace maker is the Nobel Prize in Peace, awarded since 1901 by the Norwegian Nobel Committee. It is awarded annually to internationally notable persons following the prize's creation in the will of Alfred Nobel. According to Nobel's will, the Peace Prize shall be awarded to the person who \"...shall have done the most or the best work for fraternity between nations, for the abolition or reduction of standing armies and for the holding and promotion of peace congresses.\"\n\nIn creating the Rhodes Scholarships for outstanding students from the United States, Germany and much of the British Empire, Cecil Rhodes wrote in 1901 that 'the object is that an understanding between the three great powers will render war impossible and educational relations make the strongest tie'. This peace purpose of the Rhodes Scholarships was very prominent in the first half of the 20th century, and became prominent again in recent years under Warden of the Rhodes House Donald Markwell, a historian of thought about the causes of war and peace. This vision greatly influenced Senator J. William Fulbright in the goal of the Fulbright fellowships to promote international understanding and peace, and has guided many other international fellowship programs, including the Schwarzman Scholars to China created by Stephen A. Schwarzman in 2013.\n\nThe International Gandhi Peace Prize, named after Mahatma Gandhi, is awarded annually by the Government of India. It is launched as a tribute to the ideals espoused by Gandhi in 1995 on the occasion of the 125th anniversary of his birth. This is an annual award given to individuals and institutions for their contributions towards social, economic and political transformation through non-violence and other Gandhian methods. The award carries Rs. 10 million in cash, convertible in any currency in the world, a plaque and a citation. It is open to all persons regardless of nationality, race, creed or sex.\n\nThe Student Peace Prize is awarded biennially to a student or a student organization that has made a significant contribution to promoting peace and human rights.\n\nThe Culture of Peace News Network, otherwise known simply as CPNN, is a UN authorized interactive online news network, committed to supporting the global movement for a culture of peace.\n\nEvery year in the first week of November, the Sydney Peace Foundation presents the Sydney Peace Prize. The Sydney Peace Prize is awarded to an organization or an individual whose life and work has demonstrated significant contributions to:\nThe achievement of peace with justice locally, nationally or internationally\nThe promotion and attainment of human rights\nThe philosophy, language and practice of non violence\n\nA peace museum is a museum that documents historical peace initiatives. Many peace museums also provide advocacy programs for nonviolent conflict resolution. This may include conflicts at the personal, regional or international level.\n\nSmaller institutions:\n\nThe following are monuments to peace:\n\nMany different theories of \"peace\" exist in the world of peace studies, which involves the study of de-escalation, conflict transformation, disarmament, and cessation of violence. The definition of \"peace\" can vary with religion, culture, or subject of study.\n\nOne definition is that peace is a state of balance and understanding in yourself and between others, where respect is gained by the acceptance of differences, tolerance persists, conflicts are resolved through dialog, people's rights are respected and their voices are heard, and everyone is at their highest point of serenity without social tension.\n\nThe \"Peace & War Game\" is an approach in game theory to understand the relationship between peace and conflicts.\n\nThe iterated game hypotheses was originally used by academic groups and computer simulations to study possible strategies of cooperation and aggression.\n\nAs peace makers became richer over time, it became clear that making war had greater costs than initially anticipated. One of the well studied strategies that acquired wealth more rapidly was based on Genghis Khan, i.e. a constant aggressor making war continually to gain resources. This led, in contrast, to the development of what's known as the \"provokable nice guy strategy\", a peace-maker until attacked, improved upon merely to win by occasional forgiveness even when attacked.\n\nThere exists a strategy of multiple players who can continue to gain wealth cooperating with each other while bleeding a constantly aggressive player. \n\nThe classical \"realist\" position is that the key to promoting order between states, and so of increasing the chances of peace, is the maintenance of a balance of power between states - a situation where no state is so dominant that it can \"lay down the law to the rest\". Exponents of this view have included Metternich, Bismarck, Hans Morgenthau, and Henry Kissinger. A related approach - more in the tradition of Hugo Grotius than Thomas Hobbes - was articulated by the so-called \"English school of international relations theory\" such as Martin Wight in his book \"Power Politics\" (1946, 1978) and Hedley Bull in \"The Anarchical Society\" (1977).\n\nAs the maintenance of a balance of power could in some circumstances require a willingness to go to war, some critics saw the idea of a balance of power as promoting war rather than promoting peace. This was a radical critique of those supporters of the Allied and Associated Powers who justified entry into World War I on the grounds that it was necessary to preserve the balance of power in Europe from a German bid for hegemony.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, and especially during the cold war, a particular form of balance of power - mutual nuclear deterrence - emerged as a widely held doctrine on the key to peace between the great powers. Critics argued that the development of nuclear stockpiles increased the chances of war rather than peace, and that the \"nuclear umbrella\" made it \"safe\" for smaller wars (e.g. the Vietnam war and the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia to end the Prague Spring), so making such wars more likely.\n\nThe democratic peace theory holds that democracies will never go to war with one another.\n\nIt was a central tenet of classical liberalism, for example among English liberal thinkers of the late 19th and early 20th century, that free trade promoted peace. For example, the Cambridge economist John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946) said that he was \"brought up\" on this idea and held it unquestioned until at least the 1920s. During the economic globalization in the decades leading up to World War I, writers such as Norman Angell argued that the growth \nof economic interdependence between the great powers made war between them futile and therefore unlikely. He made this argument in 1914.\n\nThese ideas have again come to prominence among liberal internationalists during the globalization of the late 20th and early 21st century. These ideas have seen capitalism as consistent with, even conducive to, peace.\n\nSocialist, communist, and left-wing liberal writers of the 19th and 20th centuries (e.g., Lenin, J.A. Hobson, John Strachey) argued that capitalism caused war (e.g. through promoting imperial or other economic rivalries that lead to international conflict). This led some to argue that international socialism was the key to peace.\n\nHowever, in response to such writers in the 1930s who argued that capitalism caused war, the economist John Maynard Keynes (1883-1946) argued that managed capitalism could promote peace. This involved international coordination of fiscal/monetary policies, an international monetary system that did not pit the interests of countries against each other, and a high degree of freedom of trade. These ideas underlay Keynes's work during World War II that led to the creation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank at Bretton Woods in 1944, and later of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (subsequently the World Trade Organization).\n\nBorrowing from the teachings of Norwegian theorist Johan Galtung, one of the pioneers of the field of Peace Research, on 'Positive Peace', and on the writings of Maine Quaker Gray Cox, a consortium of theorists, activists, and practitioners in the experimental John Woolman College initiative have arrived at a theory of \"active peace\". This theory posits in part that peace is part of a triad, which also includes justice and wholeness (or well-being), an interpretation consonant with scriptural scholarly interpretations of the meaning of the early Hebrew word \"shalom\". Furthermore, the consortium have integrated Galtung's teaching of the meanings of the terms peacemaking, peacekeeping, and peacebuilding, to also fit into a triadic and interdependent formulation or structure. Vermont Quaker John V. Wilmerding posits five stages of growth applicable to individuals, communities, and societies, whereby one transcends first the 'surface' awareness that most people have of these kinds of issues, emerging successively into acquiescence, pacifism, passive resistance, active resistance, and finally into \"active peace\", dedicating themselves to peacemaking, peacekeeping or peace building.\n\nOne of the most influential theories of peace, especially since Woodrow Wilson led the creation of the League of Nations at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, is that peace will be advanced if the intentional anarchy of states is replaced through the growth of international law promoted and enforced through international organizations such as the League of Nations, the United Nations, and other functional international organizations. One of the most important early exponents of this view was Sir Alfred Zimmern, for example in his 1936 book \"The League of Nations and the Rule of Law\".\n\nMany \"idealist\" thinkers about international relations - e.g. in the traditions of Kant and Karl Marx - have argued that the key to peace is the growth of some form of solidarity between peoples (or classes of people) spanning the lines of cleavage between nations or states that lead to war.\n\nOne version of this is the idea of promoting international understanding between nations through the international mobility of students - an idea most powerfully advanced by Cecil Rhodes in the creation of the Rhodes Scholarships, and his successors such as J. William Fulbright.\n\nAnother theory is that peace can be developed among countries on the basis of active management of water resources.\n\nFollowing Wolfgang Dietrich, Wolfgang Sützl and the Innsbruck School of Peace Studies, some peace thinkers have abandoned any single and all-encompassing definition of peace. Rather, they promote the idea of \"many peaces\". They argue that since no singular, correct definition of peace can exist, peace should be perceived as a plurality. This post-modern understanding of peace(s) was based on the philosophy of Jean Francois Lyotard. It served as a fundament for the more recent concept of trans-rational peace(s) and elicitive conflict transformation.\n\nIn 2008 Dietrich enlarged his approach of the \"many peaces\" to the so-called \"five families\" of peace interpretations: the energetic, moral, modern, post-modern and trans-rational approach. Trans-rationality unites the rational and mechanistic understanding of modern peace in a relational and culture-based manner with spiritual narratives and energetic interpretations. The systemic understanding of trans-rational peaces advocates a client-centred method of conflict transformation, the so-called elicitive approach.\n\n\n\"Peace and conflict studies\" is an academic field which identifies and analyses violent and nonviolent behaviours, as well as the structural mechanisms attending violent and non violent social conflicts. This is to better understand the processes leading to a more desirable human condition. One variation,\n\"Peace studies\" (irenology), is an interdisciplinary effort aiming at the prevention, de-escalation, and solution of conflicts. This contrasts with war studies (polemology), directed at the efficient attainment of victory in conflicts. Disciplines involved may include political science, geography, economics, psychology, sociology, international relations, history, anthropology, religious studies, and gender studies, as well as a variety of other disciplines.\n\nAlthough peace is widely perceived as something intangible, various organizations have been making efforts to quantify and measure it. The Global Peace Index produced by the Institute for Economics and Peace is a known effort to evaluate peacefulness in countries based on 23 indicators of the absence of violence and absence of the fear of violence.\n\nThe last edition of the Index ranks 163 countries on their internal and external levels of peace. According to the 2017 Global Peace Index, Iceland is the most peaceful country in the world while Syria is the least peaceful one. Fragile States Index (formerly known as the Failed States Index) created by the Fund for Peace focuses on risk for instability or violence in 178 nations. This index measures how fragile a state is by 12 indicators and subindicators that evaluate aspects of politics, social economy, and military facets in countries. The 2015 Failed State Index reports that the most fragile nation is South Sudan, and the least fragile one is Finland. University of Maryland publishes the Peace and Conflict Instability Ledger in order to measure peace. It grades 163 countries with 5 indicators, and pays the most attention to risk of political instability or armed conflict over a three-year period. The most recent ledger shows that the most peaceful country is Slovenia on the contrary Afghanistan is the most conflicted nation. Besides indicated above reports from the Institute for Economics and Peace, Fund for Peace, and University of Maryland, other organizations including George Mason University release indexes that rank countries in terms of peacefulness.\n\n"}
{"id": "18879580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18879580", "title": "Pikachurin", "text": "Pikachurin\n\nPikachurin, also known as AGRINL (AGRINL) and EGF-like, fibronectin type-III and laminin G-like domain-containing protein (EGFLAM), is a protein that in humans is encoded by the \"EGFLAM\" gene.\n\nPikachurin is a dystroglycan-interacting protein which has an essential role in the precise interactions between the photoreceptor ribbon synapse and the bipolar dendrites. The binding with dystroglycan (DG) depends on several factors (glycosylation of DG, presence of divalent cations, presence of other proteins).\n\nA non-correct binding between pikachurin and DG is associated with muscular dystrophies that often involve eye abnormalities.\n\nPikachurin is an extracellular matrix-like retinal protein first described in 2008 in Japan by Shigeru Sato et al., and named after Pikachu, a species of the \"Pokémon\" franchise. The name of this \"nimble\" protein was inspired due to Pikachu's \"lightning-fast moves and shocking electric effects\".\n\nPikachurin was initially identified in a microarray analysis of gene expression profiles of the retinas of wild-type and Otx2 knockout mice. A RT-PCR analysis was used to confirm that Otx2 regulates the expression of pikachurin, it was known because there was an absence of expression of pikachurin in the Otx2 mice retina, so it indicates that Otx2 regulates pikachurin. The localization of pikachurin to synaptic cleft in the photoreceptor ribbon synapse was determined using fluorescent antibodies. Tissue targeting of gene disruption of pikachurin was used to determine that this protein is necessary for proper synaptic signal transmission and visual function. α-dystroglycan was shown to interact with pikachurin through immunoprecipitation.\n\nDystroglycan ligand with other proteins is essential. Glycosylation of dystroglycan is necessary for its ligand binding activity. Mutations in glycosyltransferase enzymes cause abnormal glycosylation of dystroglycan. This hypoglycosylation is associated with less binding with other proteins and causes some congenital muscular dystrophy. Pikachurin is the most recently identified dystroglycan ligand protein and is localized in the synaptic cleft in the photoreceptor ribbon synapse. The binding between dystroglycan and pikachurin requires divalent cations. Ca produces strongest binding; Mn produces only faint bindings and no binding with Mg alone. Dystroglycan has different domains that allow multiple Ca sites to form a stable pikachurin-dystroglycan connection. This shows that pikachurin can form oligomeric structures; and suggests the possibility of clustering effects can be important in modulating pikachurin-dystroglycan interactions.\nAnother thing to be considered is that the presence of NaCl (0.5M) strongly inhibits interaction between DG and other ligand proteins but has a modest inhibitory effect with pikachurin-DG ligand. This shows that there are differences between the binding of pikachurin-DG binding and DG binding with other proteins.\nPikachurin seems to have more domains to bind with DG than other proteins. For example, experiments in ligand competition shows that presence of pikachurin inhibits laminin-111 binding with DG, but high concentrations of laminin-111 do not inhibit pikachurin binding to DG.\n\nThe protein is colocalized with both dystrophin and dystroglycan at the ribbon synapses.\n\nPikachurin, along with laminin, perlecan, agrin, neurexin, binds to α-dystroglycan in the extracellular space. As such, pikachurin, as well as the other previously-mentioned proteins, is necessary for the proper functioning of dystroglycan. Pikachurin is necessary for the apposition of presynaptic and postsynaptic termini in the ribbon synapse; deletion of pikachurin causes an abnormal electroretinogram, similarly to the deletion of nestin.\n\nSynapse formation is crucial for the mammalian CNS (central nervous system) to function correctly. Retinal photoreceptors finish at the axon terminal which forms a specialized structure, the ribbon synapse, which specifically connects photoreceptor synaptic terminals with bipolar and horizontal cell terminals in the outer plexiform layer (OPL) of the retina.\nIt is clear that Pikachurin, an extracellular matrix–like retinal protein, is localized to the synaptic cleft in the photoreceptor ribbon synapse. It is demonstrated that with a lack of Pikachurin, there is an improper apposition of the bipolar cell dendritic tips to the photoreceptor ribbon synapses, resulting in alterations in synaptic signal transmission and visual function. The function of Pikachurin remains unknown, but it is a fact that pikachurin is critically involved in the normal photoreceptor ribbon synapse formation and also in physiological functions of visual perception.\n\nCongenital muscular dystrophies (CMD) such as muscle-eye-brain disease are caused by defective glycosylation of α-dystroglycan (α-DG) exhibit defective photoreceptor synaptic function. Pikachurin plays an essential role in CMD. Precise interactions between the photoreceptor ribbon synapse and the bipolar dendrites which are realized due to Pikachurin may advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the retinal electrophysiological abnormalities observed in muscular dystrophy patients. The muscle-eye-brain dystrophy is caused by mutations in POMGnT1 or LARGE. These two genes mediated a post-translational modification on O-mannose, which is essential for pikachurin binding to dystroglycan, so people who suffer muscle-eye-disease have an hypoglycosylation of pikachurin-α-dystroglycan interactions.\n\nSince pikachurin seems to provide better visual acuity, Sato et al. of the Osaka Bioscience Institute believe that the protein could be used to develop a treatment for retinitis pigmentosa and other eye disorders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25714505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25714505", "title": "Professional abuse", "text": "Professional abuse\n\nThere are several definitions for professional abuse and distinctions are usually pronounced in definitions according to professional fields. One of the general descriptions, however, that sought to bridge the variations was put forward by the National Council of Psychotherapists, which explained professional abuse as a violation of an organization's code of ethics. Some sources refer to this as standards of behavior, which include the maintenance of professional boundaries and the treatment of people with respect and dignity. A more comprehensive version of this description states that this type of abuse is \"a pattern of conduct in which a person abuses, violates, or takes advantage of a victim within the context of the abuser's profession.\"\n\nProfessional abusers are the individuals who prey on the weaknesses of others in their workplaces or in other places related to economical strands of society. Their fundamental behavior is based in the following actions:\n\n\nThere are many forms of abuse. It may be:\n\nProfessional abuse always involves:\n\nProfessionals can abuse in three ways:\n\nThere are several strategies available to organizations seeking to address professional abuse. A study, for instance, revealed that this problem often arises when there is an extreme power imbalance between the professional and the victim. A framework based on different grades of client empowerment and ways of strengthening it can help solve the problem. Those who have been subjected to professional abuse could also pursue any of the following courses of actions: lodging a complaint; reporting abuse to the police; and, taking legal action.\n\nThere are also organizations that can help those who are victimized learn more about their rights and the options available to them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1308083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1308083", "title": "Rock Creek Cemetery", "text": "Rock Creek Cemetery\n\nRock Creek Cemetery is an cemetery with a natural and rolling landscape located at Rock Creek Church Road, NW, and Webster Street, NW, off Hawaii Avenue, NE, in the Petworth neighborhood of Washington, D.C., United States. It is across the street from the historic Soldiers' Home and the Soldiers' Home Cemetery. It also is home to the InterFaith Conference of Metropolitan Washington. On August 12, 1977, Rock Creek Cemetery and the adjacent church grounds were listed on the National Register of Historic Places as Rock Creek Church Yard and Cemetery.\n\nThe cemetery was first established in 1719, under the British colony of the Province of Maryland, as a churchyard within the glebe of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Rock Creek Parish. Later, the Vestry decided to expand the burial ground as a public cemetery to serve the city of Washington, D.C., which had acquired the cemetery, within its district boundaries as established in 1791, formerly, being a part of the state of Maryland, and formally established through an Act of Congress in 1840.\n\nAn expanded cemetery was landscaped in the rural garden style, to function as both a cemetery and a public park. It is a ministry of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Rock Creek Parish, with sections for St. John's Russian Orthodox Church and St. Nicholas Orthodox Cathedral.\n\nThe park-like setting of Rock Creek Cemetery has many notable mausoleums, sculptures, and tombstones. The best known is the Adams Memorial, a contemplative, androgynous bronze sculpture seated before a block of granite that was created by Augustus Saint-Gaudens and Stanford White. It marks the graves of Marian Hooper 'Clover' Adams and her husband, Henry Adams, and sometimes, mistakenly, the sculpture is referred to as \"Grief\". Saint-Gaudens entitled it \"The Mystery of the Hereafter and The Peace of God that Passeth Understanding\".\n\nOther notable memorials include the Frederick Keep Monument, the Heurich Mausoleum, the Hitt Monument, the Hardon Monument, the Kauffman Monument that is known as \"The Seven Ages of Memory\", the Sherwood Mausoleum Door, and the Thompson-Harding Monument.\n\n\nNumerous fine works by unknown sculptors also exist in the cemetery.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15164242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15164242", "title": "Round About a Pound a Week", "text": "Round About a Pound a Week\n\nRound About a Pound a Week was an influential 1913 survey of poverty and infant mortality in London, by feminist and socialist Maud Pember Reeves, co-authored by anarchist activist Charlotte Wilson. The project was conceived and carried out under the auspices of the Fabian Society's Women's Group, which she co-founded in 1908. The report was originally published as a political pamphlet or tract, arguing for specific reforms, but is still in print and considered relevant today. \n\nA Royal Commission was gathering evidence on the Poor Laws; Beatrice Webb was a commissioner, and contributed to the Minority Report, but she could see that most of the commission had a different vision to implement. Webb was also a member of the Fabian Society, a precursor to the Labour Party, as was Pember Reeves. They wanted to understand and alleviate poverty, so they focussed their attention on a few dozen families in Lambeth, a poor borough in South London and still one of the poorest parts of Britain, and recorded their attempt at social reform over the four years just before the Great War, i.e. 1909–1913. The families they selected were \"not\" the poorest; they were the \"respectable poor\" of the working class, with the menfolk in relatively stable employment, earning \"about a pound a week\"; nonetheless, one in five of the children died at birth, and another one in ten before they reached adulthood. The project targeted pregnant women, and offered them money for extra food from a few months before the birth until several months afterwards. The families kept detailed budgets of their income and expenditure. \n\nThe book contains details of the division of food within the family, with the breadwinner being given a much greater share of the food than the rest of the family. This was because the other family members were completely dependent on the breadwinner. Nonetheless, this was rarely a sufficient amount. The conditions in the book have been described as \"appalling\", demonstrating the daily struggle these women faced to feed their families without being \"forced to pawn their own boots\".\n\nIt has also been noted that Reeves avoided the \"sense of moral superiority\" common in outside observers of these people, seeing them as \"independent, resourceful, hard-working, respectable, but poor\". \n\nThe Fabian pamphlet argued for government reforms, including child benefit, school dinners, and free health clinics. It also noted the role of poor housing conditions in child mortality, and how prenatal nutrition could help.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22466010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22466010", "title": "Supercub the Lion", "text": "Supercub the Lion\n\nSupercub was a male lion that was adopted as a cub from the Nairobi National Park Orphanage near Nairobi, Kenya. In 1972, Supercub was a pride member with Christian the lion and other lions being cared for by conservationist George Adamson in the Kora National Reserve in Kenya. The lion, whose personality was described as \"boisterous\" and \"extroverted\", was dubbed Supercub by Adamson.\n\nSupercub is briefly seen in the uncut ending of the 1972 documentary film \"The Lion at World's End\". At the time of the scene Supercub was five months old.\n\nIn 1972, Supercub was killed by a wild lion known as \"The Killer\". The cub is buried in the Kora National Reserve beside the graves of George Adamson, Terrance Adamson and a lion released after George's death named Mugi.\n\n"}
{"id": "309227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309227", "title": "The Goal (novel)", "text": "The Goal (novel)\n\nThe Goal is a management-oriented novel by Eliyahu M. Goldratt, a business consultant known for his Theory of Constraints, and Jeff Cox, a best selling author and co-author of multiple management-oriented novels. The Goal was originally published in 1984 and has since been revised and republished. This book can be used for case studies in operations management, with a focus geared towards the Theory of Constraints, bottlenecks and how to alleviate them, and applications of these concepts in real life. It is used in management colleges to teach students about the importance of strategic capacity planning and constraint management. \"Time Magazine\" listed the book as one of \"The 25 Most Influential Business Management Books.\n\nLike other books by Goldratt and by Cox, \"The Goal\" is written as a piece of fiction. The main character is Alex Rogo, who manages a production plant owned by UniCo Manufacturing, where everything is always behind schedule and things are looking dire. At the beginning of the book, Bill Peach, a company executive, tells Alex that he has three months to turn operations at his plant around from being unprofitable and unreliable to being successful. His distant acquaintance, Jonah (a physicist), whom many believe represents Goldratt himself, helps him solve the company's problems through a series of telephone calls and short meetings. A second story line is introduced involving Alex's marital life. Perhaps surprisingly, Jonah's concepts are also applied successfully in this alternative story line.\n\nThe book goes on to point out the role of bottlenecks (constraints) in a manufacturing process, and how identifying them not only makes it possible to reduce their impact, but also yields a useful tool for measuring and controlling the flow of materials. Alex and his team identify the bottlenecks in their process and immediately begin to implement changes to help increase capacity and speed up production. In response to questions about the logic of using outdated technology in modern manufacturing, Alex's team brought in an old machine they received for free (which had previously been used at their plant in conjunction with two other machines) in order to increase the capacity of the NCX-10 machine, which had been identified as one of the two bottlenecks. Further more, they identified processes at the heat treat, identified as their second bottleneck, that caused massive delays in their getting product through the heat-treat and which had also caused some products to be heat-treated multiple times (to make softer and then harder again) instead of just once or not at all.\n\nIn the book, Jonah teaches Alex Rogo by using the Socratic method. Throughout the book, whenever a meeting or telephone call dialogue happens with Jonah he poses a question to Alex Rogo or a member of his crew which in turn causes them to talk amongst themselves to come up with a solution to their problem. When Alex Rogo is with his wife, he finds the Socratic method to be a way to fix his marriage which he then uses, with his crew, to come up with the five steps they should use to fix problems in the plant which ultimately leads him and Lou to think up the three things every division manager, the position Rogo is promoted to, should be able to do.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "453864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=453864", "title": "Thelma Todd", "text": "Thelma Todd\n\nThelma Alice Todd (July 29, 1906 – December 16, 1935) was an American actress. Appearing in about 120 pictures between 1926 and 1935, she is best remembered for her comedic roles in films such as Marx Brothers' \"Monkey Business\", \"Horse Feathers\", and a number of Charley Chase's short comedies and co-starring with Buster Keaton and Jimmy Durante in \"Speak Easily\". She also had roles in Wheeler and Woolsey farces and several Laurel and Hardy films, the last of which (\"The Bohemian Girl\") featured her in a part that was truncated by her suspicious death at the age of 29.\n\nTodd was born in Lawrence, Massachusetts, to John Shaw Todd, an upholsterer from Ireland, and Alice Elizabeth Edwards, an immigrant from Canada. She had an older brother, William. She was a bright student who achieved good academic results. She intended to become a schoolteacher and enrolled at the Lowell Normal School (now University of Massachusetts, Lowell) after graduating from high school in 1923. However, in her late teens, she began entering beauty pageants, winning the title of Miss Massachusetts in 1925. While representing her home state, she was spotted by a Hollywood talent scout and began her career in film at Paramount.\n\nDuring the silent film era, Todd appeared in numerous supporting roles that made full use of her beauty but gave her little chance to act. With the advent of the talkies, Todd was given opportunity to expand her roles when producer Hal Roach signed her to appear with such comedy stars as Harry Langdon, Charley Chase, and Laurel and Hardy.\n\nIn 1931, Roach cast Todd in her own series of slapstick comedy shorts, running 17 to 27 minutes each. In an attempt to create a female version of Laurel and Hardy, Roach teamed Todd with ZaSu Pitts for 17 shorts, from \"Let's do Things\" (June 1931) through \"One Track Minds\" (May 1933). When Pitts left in 1933, she was replaced by Patsy Kelly, appearing with Todd in 21 shorts, from \"Beauty and the Bus\" (September 1933) through \"An All American Toothache\" (January 1936). These Roach shorts often cast Todd as a working girl having all sorts of problems and trying her best to remain poised and charming despite the embarrassing antics of her sidekick.\n\nIn 1931, Todd starred in \"Corsair\", a film directed by Roland West, with whom she would later become romantically involved. \n\nTodd became highly regarded as a capable film comedian, and Roach loaned her out to other studios to play opposite Wheeler & Woolsey, Buster Keaton, Joe E. Brown, and the Marx Brothers. She also appeared successfully in such dramas as the original 1931 film version of \"The Maltese Falcon\" starring Ricardo Cortez as Sam Spade, in which she played Miles Archer's treacherous widow. During her career she appeared in 119 films, although many of these were short films, and was sometimes publicized as \"The Ice Cream Blonde.\"\n\nIn August, 1934, Todd opened a successful cafe, Thelma Todd's Sidewalk Cafe, at 17575 Pacific Coast Highway in the Los Angeles coastal neighborhood of Pacific Palisades. It attracted a diverse clientele of Hollywood celebrities as well as many tourists.\n\nTodd continued her short-subject series through 1935 and was featured in the full-length Laurel and Hardy comedy \"The Bohemian Girl\". This was her last film; she died after completing all of her scenes, but most of them were re-shot. Producer Roach deleted all of Todd's dialogue and limited her appearance to one musical number.\n\nOn the morning of December 16, 1935, Thelma Todd was found dead in her car inside the garage of Jewel Carmen, a former actress and former wife of Todd's lover and business partner, Roland West. Carmen's house was approximately a block from the topmost side of Todd's restaurant. Her death was determined to have been caused by carbon monoxide poisoning. West is quoted in a contemporaneous newspaper account as having locked her out, which may have caused her to seek refuge and warmth in the car. Todd had a wide circle of friends and associates as well as a busy social life.\n\nPolice investigations revealed that she had spent the previous Saturday night (December 14) at the Trocadero, a popular Hollywood restaurant, at a party hosted by entertainer Stanley Lupino and his actress daughter, Ida. At the restaurant, she had had a brief but unpleasant exchange with her ex-husband, Pat DiCicco. However, her friends stated that she was in good spirits and were aware of nothing unusual in her life that could suggest a reason for her committing suicide. She was driven home from the party in the early hours of December 15 by her chauffeur, Ernest O. Peters.\n\nThe detectives of the LAPD concluded that Todd's death was accidental, the result of her either warming up the car to drive it or using the heater to keep herself warm. A Coroner's Inquest into Todd's death was held on December 18, 1935. Autopsy surgeon A.P. Wagner testified that there were \"no marks of violence anywhere upon or within the body\" with only a \"superficial contusion on the lower lip.\" There are informal accounts of greater signs of injury. The jury ruled that the death appeared to be accidental but recommended \"further investigation to be made into the case, by proper authorities.\" \n\nSubsequently a grand jury probe was held to determine whether Todd's death was a murder. After four weeks of testimony, the inquiry was closed with no evidence of murder being brought forward. The case was closed by the Homicide Bureau, which listed the death as \"accidental with possible suicide tendencies.\" However, investigators were unable to find any motive for suicide or a suicide note.\n\nVisitation was held at Pierce Brothers Mortuary at 720 West Washington Blvd in Los Angeles\n\nTodd's body was cremated. After her mother's death in 1969, Todd's remains were placed in her mother's casket and buried in Bellevue Cemetery in her hometown of Lawrence, Massachusetts.\n\nFor her contribution to the motion picture industry, Todd has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6262 Hollywood Blvd.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61861", "title": "Theophylact of Constantinople", "text": "Theophylact of Constantinople\n\nTheophylact Lekapenos (or Lecapenus) (, \"Theophylaktos Lakapenos\") (917 – 27 February 956) was Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople from 2 February 933 to his death in 956.\n\nTheophylact was the youngest son of Emperor Romanos I Lekapenos by Theodora. Romanos planned to make his son Patriarch as soon as Nicholas Mystikos died in 925, but two minor patriarchates and a two-year vacancy passed before Theophylact was considered old enough to discharge his duties as patriarch (as he was still only sixteen years old). At this time or before he was castrated to help his career in the church. Theophylact was the third patriarch of Constantinople to be the son of an emperor and the only one to have become patriarch during the reign of his father. His patriarchate of just over twenty-three years was unusually long, and his father had secured the support of Pope John XI for his elevation to the patriarchate. Apart from the bastard eunuch Basil Lekapenos, who was appointed \"parakoimomenos\", Theophylact was the only son of Romanos I to retain his high office after the family's fall from power in 945.\n\nTheophylact supported his father's policies and pursued ecclesiastical ecumenicism, keeping in close contact with the Greek patriarchates of Alexandria and Antioch. He sent missionaries to the Magyars, trying to help the efforts of imperial diplomacy in the late 940s. At about the same time, Theophylact advised his nephew-in-law Emperor Peter I of Bulgaria on the new Bogomil heresy. Theophylact introduced theatrical elements to the Byzantine liturgy, something which was not universally supported by the conservative clergy around him.\n\nTheophylact's detractors describe him as an irreverent man primarily interested in his huge stable of horses, who was ready to abandon the celebration of Divine Liturgy in the Hagia Sophia to be present at the foaling of his favorite mare. Perhaps ironically, Theophylact died after falling from a horse in 956.\n"}
