{"id": "8252638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8252638", "title": "Abu Abdallah Mohammed II Saadi", "text": "Abu Abdallah Mohammed II Saadi\n\nAbu Abdallah Mohammed II, Al-Mutawakkil, often simply Abdallah Mohammed (died 4 August 1578) was Sultan of Morocco from 1574 to 1576. He was the oldest son of Abdallah al-Ghalib and became Sultan after his father's death.\n\nImmediately after his accession to the throne he had one of his brothers executed and another (Mulay en-Naser, the governor of Tadla) imprisoned.\n\nAbu Abdallah's uncle Abd al-Malik, who was like Abdallah al-Ghalib a son of Mohammed ash-Sheikh, had already fled to Constantinople in the Ottoman Empire in 1574. Back in Ottoman Algeria, Abd al-Malik succeeded in organising his own army, consisting of Ottoman soldiers, and in 1576 he invaded Morocco and conquered Fez from his nephew, in the Capture of Fez. The first battle was in al-Rukn in the lands of Banu waritin, near Fez. In a second battle near Salé (Rabat) in Jandaq al-Rayhan, Abd al-Malik also defeated his nephew. A third battle, also won by Abd al-Malik, took place in Taroudannt.\n\nBoth Abd al-Malik and Abu Abdallah died two years later in the Battle of Alcácer Quibir, in 1578. In that battle, Abu Abdallah fought his last battle against his uncle Abd al-Malik with the help of his Portuguese allies.\n\n"}
{"id": "73331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73331", "title": "Abu Nidal", "text": "Abu Nidal\n\nSabri Khalil al-Banna (May 1937 – 16 August 2002), known as Abu Nidal, was the founder of Fatah: The Revolutionary Council, a militant Palestinian splinter group more commonly known as the Abu Nidal Organization (ANO). At the height of its power in the 1970s and 1980s, the ANO was widely regarded as the most ruthless of the Palestinian groups.\n\nAbu Nidal (\"father of struggle\") formed the ANO in October 1974 after a split from Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction within the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). Acting as a freelance contractor, Abu Nidal is believed to have ordered attacks in 20 countries, killing over 300 and injuring over 650. The group's operations included the Rome and Vienna airport attacks on 27 December 1985, when gunmen opened fire on passengers in simultaneous shootings at El Al ticket counters, killing 20. Patrick Seale, Abu Nidal's biographer, wrote of the shootings that their \"random cruelty marked them as typical Abu Nidal operations\".\n\nAbu Nidal died after a shooting in his Baghdad apartment in August 2002. Palestinian sources believed he was killed on the orders of Saddam Hussein, while Iraqi officials insisted he had committed suicide during an interrogation. \"He was the patriot turned psychopath\", David Hirst wrote in the \"Guardian\" on the news of his death. \"He served only himself, only the warped personal drives that pushed him into hideous crime. He was the ultimate mercenary.\"\n\nAbu Nidal was born in Jaffa, on the Mediterranean coast of what was then the British Mandate of Palestine. His father, Hajj Khalil al-Banna, owned 6,000 acres (24 km) of orange groves situated between Jaffa and Majdal, today Ashkelon in Israel. The family lived in luxury in a three-storey stone house near the beach, later used as an Israeli military court. Muhammad Khalil al-Banna, Abu Nidal's brother, told Yossi Melman:\n\nKhalil al-Banna's wealth allowed him to take several wives. According to Abu Nidal in an interview with \"Der Spiegel\", his father had 13 wives, 17 sons and eight daughters. Melman writes that Abu Nidal's mother was the eighth wife. She had been one of the family's maids, a 16-year-old Alawite girl. The family disapproved of the marriage, according to Patrick Seale, and as a result Abu Nidal, Khalil's 12th child, was apparently looked down on by his older siblings, although in later life the relationships were repaired.\n\nIn 1944 or 1945, his father sent him to Collège des Frères de Jaffa, a French mission school, which he attended for one year. When his father died in 1945, when Abu Nidal was seven years old, the family turned his mother out of the house. His brothers took him out of the mission school and enrolled him instead in a prestigious, private Muslim school in Jerusalem, now known as Umariya Elementary School, which he attended for about two years.\n\nOn 29 November 1947, the United Nations resolved to partition Palestine into an Arab and Jewish state. Fighting broke out immediately, and the disruption of the citrus-fruit business hit the family's income. In Jaffa there were food shortages, truck bombs and an Irgun mortar bombardment. Melman writes that the al-Banna family had had good relations with the Jewish community. Abu Nidal's brother told Melman that their father had been a friend of Avraham Shapira, a founder of the Jewish defense organization, Hashomer: \"He would visit [Shapira] in his home in Petah Tikva, or Shapira riding his horse would visit our home in Jaffa. I also remember how we visited Dr. Weizmann [later first president of Israel] in his home in Rehovot.\" But it was war, and the relationships did not help them.\n\nJust before Jaffa was conquered by Israeli troops in April 1948, the family fled to their house near Majdal, but the Jewish militias arrived there too, and they had to flee again. This time they went to the Bureij refugee camp in the Gaza Strip, then under Egyptian control. Melman writes that the family spent nine months living in tents, dependent on UNRWA for an allowance of oil, rice and potatoes. The experience had a powerful effect on Abu Nidal.\n\nThe al-Banna family's commercial experience, and the money they had managed to take with them, meant they could set themselves up in business again, Melman writes. Their orange groves had gone, now part of the new state of Israel, which had declared its independence on 14 May 1948. The family moved to Nablus in the West Bank, then under Jordanian control. In 1955, Abu Nidal graduated from high school, joined the Arab nationalist Ba'ath party, and began a degree course in engineering at Cairo University, but he left after two years without a degree. In 1960, he made his way to Saudi Arabia, where he set himself up as a painter and electrician, and worked as a casual laborer for Aramco. His brother told Melman that Abu Nidal would return to Nablus from Saudi Arabia every year to visit his mother. It was during one of those visits in 1962 that he met his wife, whose family had also fled from Jaffa. The marriage produced a son and two daughters.\n\nAbu Nidal was often in poor health, according to Seale, and tended to dress in zip-up jackets and old trousers, drinking whisky every night in his later years. He became, writes Seale, a \"master of disguises and subterfuge, trusting no one, lonely and self-protective, [living] like a mole, hidden away from public view\". Acquaintances said that he was capable of hard work and had a good financial brain. Salah Khalaf (Abu Iyad), the deputy chief of Fatah who was assassinated by the ANO in 1991, knew him well in the late 1960s when he took Abu Nidal under his wing. He told Seale:\n\nHe had been recommended to me as a man of energy and enthusiasm, but he seemed shy when we met. It was only on further acquaintance that I noticed other traits. He was extremely good company, with a sharp tongue and an inclination to dismiss most of humanity as spies and traitors. I rather liked that! I discovered he was very ambitious, perhaps more than his abilities warranted, and also very excitable. He sometimes worked himself up into such a state that he lost all powers of reasoning.\n\nSeale suggests that Abu Nidal's childhood explained his personality, described as chaotic by Abu Iyad and as psychopathic by Issam Sartawi, the late Palestinian heart surgeon. His siblings' scorn, the loss of his father, and his mother's removal from the family home when he was seven, then the loss of his home and status in the conflict with Israel, created a mental world of plots and counterplots, reflected in his tyrannical leadership of the ANO. Members' wives (it was an all-male group) were not allowed to befriend each another, and Abu Nidal's wife was expected to live in isolation without friends.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia Abu Nidal helped found a small group of young Palestinians who called themselves the Palestine Secret Organization. The activism cost him his job and home: Aramco fired him, and the Saudi government imprisoned then expelled him. He returned to Nablus with his wife and family, and joined Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction of the PLO. Working as an odd-job man, he was committed to Palestinian politics but was not particularly active, until Israel won the 1967 Six-Day War, capturing the Golan Heights, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Melman writes that \"the entrance of the Israel Defense Forces tanks into Nablus was a traumatic experience for him. The conquest aroused him to action.\"\n\nAfter moving to Amman, Jordan, he set up a trading company called Impex, which acted as a front for Fatah, serving as a meeting place and conduit for funds. This became a hallmark of Abu Nidal's career. Companies controlled by the ANO made him a rich man by engaging in legitimate business deals, while acting as cover for arms deals and mercenary activities> \nWhen Fatah asked him to choose a \"nom de guerre\", he chose Abu Nidal (\"father of struggle\") after his son, Nidal. Those who knew him at the time said he was a well-organized leader, not a guerrilla; during fighting between the Palestinian \"fedayeen\" and King Hussein's troops, he stayed in his office. In 1968 Abu Iyad appointed him as the Fatah representative in Khartoum, Sudan, then (at Abu Nidal's insistence) to the same position in Baghdad in July 1970, two months before Black September, when over 10 days of fighting King Hussein's army drove the Palestinian \"fedayeen\" out of Jordan, with the loss of thousands of lives. Abu Nidal's absence from Jordan during this period, Seale writes, when it was clear that King Hussein was about to act against the Palestinians, raised suspicion within the movement that he was interested only in saving himself.\n\nShortly after Black September, Abu Nidal began accusing the PLO, over his Voice of Palestine radio station in Iraq, of cowardice for having agreed to a ceasefire with Hussein. During Fatah's Third Congress in Damascus in 1971, he joined Palestinian activist and writer Naji Allush and Abu Daoud (leader of the Black September Organization responsible for the 1972 Munich Massacre) in calling for greater democracy within Fatah and revenge against King Hussein.\nIn February 1973, Abu Daoud was arrested in Jordan for an attempt on King Hussein's life. This led to Abu Nidal's first operation, using the name \"Al-Iqab\" (\"the Punishment\"). On 5 September 1973, five gunmen entered the Saudi embassy in Paris, took 15 hostages and threatened to blow up the building if Abu Daoud was not released. The gunmen flew two days later to Kuwait on a Syrian Airways flight, still holding five hostages, then to Riyadh, threatening to throw the hostages out of the aircraft. They surrendered and released the hostages on 8 September. Abu Daoud was released from prison two weeks later; Seale writes that the Kuwaiti government paid King Hussein $12 million for his release.\n\nOn the day of the attack, 56 heads of state were meeting in Algiers for the 4th conference of the Non-Aligned Movement. According to Seale, the Saudi Embassy operation had been commissioned by Iraq's president, Ahmed Hasan al-Bakr, as a distraction because he was jealous that Algeria was hosting the conference. Seale writes one of the hostage-takers admitted that he had been told to fly the hostages around until the conference was over.\n\nAbu Nidal had carried out the operation without the permission of Fatah. Abu Iyad (Arafat's deputy) and Mahmoud Abbas (later President of the Palestinian Authority), flew to Iraq to reason with Abu Nidal that hostage-taking harmed the movement. Abu Iyad told Seale that an Iraqi official at the meeting said: \"Why are you attacking Abu Nidal? The operation was ours! We asked him to mount it for us.\" Abbas was furious and left the meeting with the other PLO delegates. From that point on, Seale writes, the PLO regarded Abu Nidal as under the control of the Iraqi government.\n\nTwo months later, in November 1973 (just after the Yom Kippur War in October), the ANO hijacked KLM Flight 861, this time using the name Arab Nationalist Youth Organization. Fatah had been discussing convening a peace conference in Geneva; the hijacking was intended to warn them not to go ahead with it. In response, in March or July 1974, Arafat expelled Abu Nidal from Fatah.\n\nIn October 1974 Abu Nidal formed the ANO, calling it Fatah: The Revolutionary Council. In November that year a Fatah court sentenced him to death \"in absentia\" for the attempted assassination of Mahmoud Abbas. Seale writes that it is unlikely that Abu Nidal had intended to kill Abbas, and just as unlikely that Fatah wanted to kill Abu Nidal. He was invited to Beirut to discuss the death sentence, and was allowed to leave again, but it was clear that he had become \"persona non grata\". As a result, the Iraqis gave him Fatah's assets in Iraq, including a training camp, farm, newspaper, radio station, passports, overseas scholarships and $15 million worth of Chinese weapons. He also received Iraq's regular aid to the PLO: around $150,000 a month and a lump sum of $3–5 million.\n\nIn addition to Fatah: The Revolutionary Council, the ANO called itself the Palestinian National Liberation Movement, Black June (for actions against Syria), Black September (for actions against Jordan), the Revolutionary Arab Brigades, the Revolutionary Organization of Socialist Muslims, the Egyptian Revolution, Revolutionary Egypt, \"Al-Asifa\" (\"the Storm,\" a name also used by Fatah), \"Al-Iqab\" (\"the Punishment\"), and the Arab Nationalist Youth Organization.\n\nThe group had up to 500 members, chosen from young men in the Palestinian refugee camps and in Lebanon, who were promised good pay and help looking after their families. They would be sent to training camps in whichever country was hosting the ANO at the time (Syria, Iraq or Libya), then organized into small cells. Once in, As`ad AbuKhalil and Michael Fischbach write, they were not allowed to leave again. The group assumed complete control over the membership. One member who spoke to Patrick Seale was told before being sent overseas: \"If we say, 'Drink alcohol'\", do so. If we say, 'Get married,' find a woman and marry her. If we say, 'Don't have children,' you must obey. If we say, 'Go and kill King Hussein,' you must be ready to sacrifice yourself!\"\n\nSeale writes that recruits were asked to write out their life stories, including names and addresses of family and friends, then sign a paper saying they agreed to execution if discovered to have intelligence connections. If suspected, they would be asked to rewrite the whole story, without discrepancies. The ANO's newspaper \"Filastin al-Thawra\" regularly announced the execution of traitors. Abu Nidal believed that the group had been penetrated by Israeli agents, and there was a sense that Israel may have used the ANO to undermine more moderate Palestinian groups. Terrorism experts regard the view that Abu Nidal himself was such agent as \"far-fetched\".\n\nThere were reports of purges throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Around 600 ANO members were killed in Lebanon and Libya, including 171 in one night in November 1987, when they were lined up, shot and thrown into a mass grave. Dozens were kidnapped in Syria and killed in the Badawi refugee camp. Most of the decisions to kill, Abu Daoud told Seale, were taken by Abu Nidal \"in the middle of the night, after he [had] knocked back a whole bottle of whiskey.\" The purges led to the defection from the ANO in 1989 of Atif Abu Bakr, head of the ANO's political directorate, who returned to Fatah.\n\nMembers were routinely tortured by the \"Committee for Revolutionary Justice\" until they confessed to disloyalty. Seale writes that reports of torture included hanging a man naked, whipping him until he was unconscious, reviving him with cold water, then rubbing salt or chili powder into his wounds. A naked prisoner would be forced into a car tyre with his legs and backside in the air, then whipped, wounded, salted and revived with cold water. A member's testicles might be fried in oil, or melted plastic dripped onto his skin. Between interrogations, prisoners would be tied up in tiny cells. If the cells were full, Seale writes, they might be buried with a pipe in their mouths for air and water; if Abu Nidal wanted them dead, a bullet would be fired down the pipe instead.\n\nThe Intelligence Directorate was formed in 1985 to oversee special operations. It had four subcommittees: the Committee for Special Missions, the Foreign Intelligence Committee, the Counterespionage Committee and the Lebanon Committee. Led by Abd al-Rahman Isa, the longest-serving member of the ANO—Seale writes that Isa was unshaven and shabby, but charming and persuasive—the directorate maintained 30–40 people overseas who looked after the ANO's arms caches in various countries. It trained staff, arranged passports and visas, and reviewed security at airports and seaports. Members were not allowed to visit each other at home, and no one outside the directorate was supposed to know who was a member. Abu Nidal demoted Isa in 1987, believing he had become too close to other figures within the ANO. Always keen to punish members by humiliating them, he insisted that Isa remain in the Intelligence Directorate, where he had to work for his previous subordinates, who according to Seale were told to treat him with contempt.\n\nThe job of the Committee for Special Missions was to choose targets. It had started life as the Military Committee, headed by Naji Abu al-Fawaris, who had led the attack on Heinz Nittel, head of the Israel-Austria Friendship League, who was shot and killed in 1981. In 1982 the committee changed its name to the Committee for Special Missions, headed by Dr. Ghassan al-Ali, who had been born in the West Bank and educated in England, where he obtained a BA and MA in chemistry and married a British woman (later divorced). A former ANO member told Seale that Ali favoured \"the most extreme and reckless operations.\"\n\nOn 3 June 1982, ANO operative Hussein Ghassan Said shot Shlomo Argov, the Israeli ambassador to Britain, once in the head as he left the Dorchester Hotel in London. Said was accompanied by Nawaf al-Rosan, an Iraqi intelligence officer, and Marwan al-Banna, Abu Nidal's cousin. Argov survived, but spent three months in a coma and the rest of his life disabled, until his death in February 2003. The PLO quickly denied responsibility for the attack.\n\nAriel Sharon, then Israel's defence minister, responded three days later by invading Lebanon, where the PLO was based, a reaction that Seale argues Abu Nidal had intended. The Israeli government had been preparing to invade and Abu Nidal provided a pretext. \"Der Spiegel\" put it to him in October 1985 that the assassination of Argov, when he knew Israel wanted to attack the PLO in Lebanon, made him appear to be working for the Israelis, in the view of Yasser Arafat. He replied:\n\nWhat Arafat says about me doesn't bother me. Not only he, but also a whole list of Arab and world politicians claim that I am an agent of the Zionists or the CIA. Others state that I am a mercenary of the French secret service and of the Soviet KGB. The latest rumor is that I am an agent of Khomeini. During a certain period they said we were spies for the Iraqi regime. Now they say that we are Syrian agents. ... Many psychologists and sociologists in the Soviet bloc tried to investigate this man Abu Nidal. They wanted to find a weak point in his character. The result was zero.\n\nAbu Nidal's most infamous operation was the 1985 attack on the Rome and Vienna airports. On 27 December, at 08:15 GMT, four gunmen opened fire on the El Al ticket counter at the Leonardo Da Vinci International Airport in Rome, killing 16 and wounding 99. In Vienna International Airport a few minutes later, three men threw hand grenades at passengers waiting to check into a flight to Tel Aviv, killing four and wounding 39. According to Seale, the gunmen had been told the people in civilian clothes at the check-in counter were Israeli pilots returning from a training mission.\n\nAustria and Italy had both been involved in trying to arrange peace talks. Sources close to Abu Nidal told Seale that Libyan intelligence had supplied the weapons. The damage to the PLO was enormous, according to Abu Iyad, Arafat's deputy. Most people in the West and even many Arabs could not distinguish between the ANO and Fatah, he said. \"When such horrible things take place, ordinary people are left thinking that all Palestinians are criminals.\"\n\nOn 15 April 1986, the US launched bombing raids from British bases against Tripoli and Benghazi, killing around 100, in retaliation for the bombing of a Berlin nightclub used by US service personnel. The dead were reported to include Hanna Gaddafi, the adoptive daughter of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi; two of his other children were injured. British journalist Alec Collett, who had been kidnapped in Beirut in March, was hanged after the airstrikes, reportedly by ANO operatives; his remains were found in the Beqaa Valley in November 2009. The bodies of two British teachers, Leigh Douglas and Philip Padfield, and an American, Peter Kilburn, were found in a village near Beirut on 17 April 1986; the Arab Fedayeen Cells, a name linked to Abu Nidal, claimed responsibility. British journalist John McCarthy was kidnapped the same day.\n\nOn 17 April 1986—the day the bodies of the teachers were found and McCarthy was kidnapped—Ann Marie Murphy, a pregnant Irish chambermaid, was discovered in Heathrow airport with a Semtex bomb in the false bottom of one of her bags. She had been about to board an El Al flight from New York to Tel Aviv via London. The bag had been packed by her Jordanian fiancé Nizar Hindawi, who had said he would join her in Israel where they were to be married. According to Melman, Abu Nidal had recommended Hindawi to Syrian intelligence. Seale writes that the bomb had been manufactured by Abu Nidal's technical committee, who had delivered it to Syrian air force intelligence. It was sent to London in a diplomatic bag and given to Hindawi. According to Seale, it was widely believed that the attack was in response to Israel having forced down a jet, two months earlier, carrying Syrian officials to Damascus, which Israel had supposed was carrying senior Palestinians.\n\nOn 5 September 1986, four ANO gunmen hijacked Pan Am Flight 73 at Karachi Airport on its way from Mumbai to New York, holding 389 passengers and crew for 16 hours in the plane on the tarmac before detonating grenades inside the cabin. Neerja Bhanot, the flight's senior purser, was able to open an emergency door, and most passengers escaped; 20 died, including Bhanot, and 120 were wounded. The London \"Times\" reported in March 2004 that Libya had been behind the hijacking.\n\nAbu Nidal began to move his organization out of Syria to Libya in the summer of 1986, arriving there in March 1987. In June that year the Syrian government expelled him, in part because of the Hindawi affair and Pan Am Flight 73 hijacking. He repeatedly took credit during this period for operations in which he had no involvement, including the 1984 Brighton hotel bombing, 1985 Bradford City stadium fire, and 1986 assassination of Zafer al-Masri, the mayor of Nablus (killed by the PFLP, according to Seale). By publishing a congratulatory note in the ANO's magazine, he also implied that he had been behind the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, writes Seale.\n\nAbu Nidal and Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, allegedly became great friends, each holding what Marie Colvin and Sonya Murad called a \"dangerous combination of an inferiority complex mixed with the belief that he was a man of great destiny\". The relationship gave Abu Nidal a sponsor and Gaddafi a mercenary. Seale reports that Libya brought out the worst in Abu Nidal. He would not allow even the most senior ANO members to socialize with each other; all meetings had to be reported to him. All passports had to be handed over. No one was allowed to travel without his permission. Ordinary members were not allowed to have telephones; senior members were allowed to make local calls only. His members knew nothing about his daily life, including where he lived. If he wanted to entertain, Seale writes, he would take over the home of another member.\n\nAccording to Abu Bakr, speaking to \"Al Hayatt\" in 2002, Abu Nidal said he was behind the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103, which exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, on 21 December 1988; a former head of security for Libyan Arab Airlines was later convicted. Abu Nidal reportedly said of Lockerbie, according to Seale: \"We do have some involvement in this matter, but if anyone so much as mentions it, I will kill him with my own hands!\" Seale writes that the ANO appeared to have no connection to it; one of Abu Nidal's associates told him, \"If an American soldier tripped in some corner of the globe, Abu Nidal would instantly claim it as his own work.\"\n\nIn the late 1980s British intelligence learned that the ANO held accounts with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) in London. BCCI was closed in July 1991 by banking regulators in six countries after evidence emerged of widespread fraud. Abu Nidal himself was said to have visited London using the name Shakar Farhan; a BCCI branch manager, who passed information about the ANO accounts to MI5, reportedly drove him around several stores in London without realizing who he was. Abu Nidal was using a company called SAS International Trading and Investments in Warsaw as cover for arms deals. The company's transactions included the purchase of riot guns, ostensibly for Syria, then when the British refused an export licence to Syria, for an African state; in fact, half the shipment went to the police in East Germany and half to Abu Nidal.\n\nOn 14 January 1991 in Tunis, the night before US forces moved into Kuwait, the ANO assassinated Abu Iyad, head of PLO intelligence, along with Abu al-Hol, Fatah's chief of security, and Fakhri al-Umari, another Fatah aide; all three men were shot in Abu Iyad's home. The killer, Hamza Abu Zaid, confessed that an ANO operative had hired him. When he shot Abu Iyad, he reportedly shouted, \"Let Atif Abu Bakr help you now!\", a reference to the senior ANO member who had left the group in 1989, and whom Abu Nidal believed had been planted within the ANO by Abu Iyad as a spy. Abu Iyad had known that Abu Nidal nursed a hatred of him, in part because he had kept Abu Nidal out of the PLO. But the real reason for the hatred, Abu Iyad told Seale, was that he had protected Abu Nidal in his early years within the movement. Given his personality, Abu Nidal could not acknowledge that debt. Seale writes that the murder \"must therefore be seen as a final settlement of old scores\".\n\nAfter Libyan intelligence operatives were charged with the Lockerbie bombing, Gaddafi tried to distance himself from terrorism. Abu Nidal was expelled from Libya in 1999, and in 2002 he returned to Iraq. The Iraqi government later said he had entered the country using a fake Yemeni passport and false name.\n\nOn 19 August 2002, the Palestinian newspaper \"al-Ayyam\" reported that Abu Nidal had died three days earlier of multiple gunshot wounds at his home in Baghdad, a house the newspaper said was owned by the \"Mukhabarat\", the Iraqi secret service. Two days later Iraq's chief of intelligence, Taher Jalil Habbush, handed out photographs of Abu Nidal's body to journalists, along with a medical report that said he had died after a bullet entered his mouth and exited through his skull. Habbush said Iraqi officials had arrived at Abu Nidal's home to arrest him on suspicion of conspiring with foreign governments. After saying he needed a change of clothes, he went into his bedroom and shot himself in the mouth, according to Habbush. He died eight hours later in hospital.\n\n\"Jane's\" reported in 2002 that Iraqi intelligence had found classified documents in his home about a US attack on Iraq. When they raided the house, fighting broke out between Abu Nidal's men and Iraqi intelligence. In the midst of this, Abu Nidal rushed into his bedroom and was killed; Palestinian sources told \"Jane's\" that he had been shot several times. \"Jane's\" suggested Saddam Hussein had him killed because he feared Abu Nidal would act against him in the event of an American invasion.\n\nIn 2008 Robert Fisk obtained a report written in September 2002, for Saddam Hussein's \"presidency intelligence office,\" by Iraq's \"Special Intelligence Unit M4.\" The report said that the Iraqis had been interrogating Abu Nidal in his home as a suspected spy for Kuwait and Egypt, and indirectly for the United States, and that he had been asked by the Kuwaitis to find links between Iraq and Al-Qaeda. Just before being moved to a more secure location, Abu Nidal asked to be allowed to change his clothing, went into his bedroom and shot himself, the report said. He was buried on 29 August 2002 in al-Karakh's Islamic cemetery in Baghdad, in a grave marked M7.\n\n"}
{"id": "18422541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18422541", "title": "Adonis Stevenson", "text": "Adonis Stevenson\n\nStevenson Adonis (born 22 September 1977), best known as Adonis Stevenson, is a Haitian Canadian professional boxer. He held the WBC and lineal light-heavyweight titles from 2013 to 2018, and previously the \"Ring\" magazine light-heavyweight title from 2013 to 2015. Stevenson is particularly known for his exceptional punching power and fast hand speed, and is one of the last boxers trained by Emanuel Steward.\n\nStevenson's known name is an inversion of his family name and given name. Born in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, Stevenson moved to Montreal, Quebec with his family when he was seven. By 14 years old, he was living on the streets and soon fell into a violent gang which drew him into a criminal lifestyle. In his early twenties, after a criminal trial in 1998 in Quebec, Stevenson served 18 months of a four-year prison sentence for managing prostitutes, assault, and issuing threats. While in prison, he also pleaded guilty to aggravated assault after putting a fellow inmate into a coma. After leaving prison in 2001, Stevenson vowed he would never return.\n\nStevenson became Quebec Middleweight champion in 2004, and best amateur fighter of the country in 2005–2006. He also grabbed the Canada national title in 2005 and 2006. Stevenson competed in the XVIII Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, Australia in 2006 and won the silver medal losing to local Australian Jarrod Fletcher in the final. It was also the only medal a Canadian boxer received at the games.\n\nA 29-year-old Stevenson turned professional in September 2006. His opponent was Mike Funk, another boxer making his debut, at the Montreal Casino in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Stevenson knocked Funk out with a hook in twenty-two seconds.\n\nOn August 1, 2009, at Windsor Station in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, Stevenson defeated Anthony Bonsante by first round knockout. The two fighters came out of their corners for the fight with Bonsante launching the first attack, but just moments after the assault, Stevenson landed a left hand that sent Bonsante down to the canvas. Bonsante sprawled out on the canvas with his eyes closed, while the referee reached the count of six before stopping the fight. Bonsante had begun to get up at the count of six, but it was too late, leaving Bonsante livid with the decision as he chased the referee around the ring in an attempt to protest the decision, but to little avail. He also won a fifth-round TKO decision against Jermain Mackey on September 25, 2009.\n\nOn April 17, 2010, in his first fight in the United States, which also was his first time fighting for promoter Lou DiBella, he suffered his first defeat being stopped in the second round by Darnell Boone. Boone had been knocked down on the canvas twice in the first round, however, in the second round, Stevenson rushed to Boone without maintaining his defense and he got caught by a solid right sending him on the canvas for the first time in his career. Stevenson managed to get back on his feet inside the count of 10, however, the referee waved the fight off as he deemed Stevenson unable to continue.\n\nNonetheless, Stevenson resumed with GYM Promotions and won the North American title NABA on April 8, 2011 at the expense of Derek Edwards by KO in the third round. He then won by referee stoppage in the first round against Dion Savage (Shujaa El-Amin) on September 17, 2011, and retained his title against Aaron Pryor Jr on December 10, 2011 by referee stoppage in the ninth round. Stevenson jumped from 15th to 2nd position for the IBF title, winning by KO in the first round duel against Jesús González on February 18, 2012. He then fought Noe Gonzalez on April 20, 2012 and won the fight at 1:40 in the second round when the referee stopped the fight.\n\nHis next fight originally set to be against Don George with the winner getting a shot at the IBF champion. The fight was originally scheduled to be a co-main event of a fight card also including a match between Jean Pascal and Tavoris Cloud on August 11, 2012 but the even was cancelled due to an injury suffered by Pascal. The Stevenson fight was then moved up to August 17, 2012 and was set to be part of ESPN Friday Night Fights, but Stevenson later injured his hand cancelling the fight. The fight was then rescheduled to October 12. In the fight Stevenson knocked George down twice in the fifth and once in the sixth round before winning the fight with a 12th-round TKO after knocking him down twice more.\n\nOn February 4, 2013 it was announced that Stevenson would get the chance to avenge his only loss as a professional against Darnell Boone (19-20-3, 8KOs) with the fight taking place on March 22 at the Bell Centre. With this fight, Stevenson was risking his IBF mandatory status. Stevenson avenged his only loss, knocking out Darnell Boone with a pair of lefts in the sixth round in March 22, 2013 at the Bell Centre. Stevenson, fighting at 171.9 pounds, forced Boone to take a knee with a right hook to the body early in the sixth, then stunned him coming out of a corner with a left uppercut, followed with a straight left that sent Boone on the canvas.\n\nStevenson moved up to light heavyweight to challenge Lineal/WBC/\"The Ring\" champion Chad Dawson (31-2, 17 KOs) on June 8, 2013 at the Bell Centre. In the press conferences leading up to the fight, Dawson called the fight a tune-up, also claiming that he had to Google Stevenson because he had never heard of him. Stevenson hit Dawson with a left hook that dropped him very early in the first round of the fight, and though Dawson got up before the count of eight the referee stopped the fight, giving Stevenson an unexpected knockout victory. Stevenson's victory was his eighth straight since his only career defeat, all coming by knockout. At 174 1/4 lbs., Stevenson was fighting at the heaviest weight of his professional career to date. In the post-fight, Stevenson told HBO's Max Kellerman, \"I caught him, and that's a beautiful punch.\" Dawson admitted, \"It was a punch I didn't see. He caught me. That's it. He caught me with a good punch.\" Dawson suffered his second consecutive stoppage loss. In the 76 seconds the fight lasted, Dawson landed 2 of 16 punches thrown and Stevenson landed 3 of his 15 thrown. Stevenson stated the reason he moved up was due to not being able to secure a world title fight at super middleweight, accusing Carl Froch and Mikkel Kessler of ducking him and fighting each other instead in a rematch. The knockout was voted as Ring Magazine Knockout of the Year for 2013.\n\nThe WBC originally ordered Stevenson to face mandatory challenger Tony Bellew, but then allowed him to make a voluntary defense first against Tavoris Cloud, where the winner of the fight must face Bellew at a later date.\n\nThe fight against former IBF champion Tavoris Cloud (24-1, 19 KOs) was confirmed on August 12, 2013 to take place on September 28 at the Bell Centre in Montreal, Quebec on HBO. Cloud was entering the fight coming off his first career loss, which came in March 2013 against Bernard Hopkins. Stevenson dominated the precedings, flustering Cloud with quick hands and shocking power. The fight ended when Cloud failed to answer the bell for the start of the eighth round. Round 7 saw Cloud hurt many times and a cut appearing on his right eye. He was also cut on the left eyelid in the opening round.\n\nTerms were agreed for the fight on July 25, 2013. On November 30, Stevenson defended his light heavyweight title against Tony Bellew (20-1-1, 12 KOs) at the Colisée Pepsi. Stevenson became the first boxer to stop Bellew winning the fight via TKO. In round 6, Stevenson put Bellew down with a left hand, he beat the count and the referee let the fight go on. Bellew was then knocked out standing by another pair of left hands before the referee could get in and put a stop to the bout. At the time of stoppage, Stevenson was ahead on the scorecards 50-45, 49-46, 50-45. Bellew contemplated moving up to cruiserweight after the loss. According to Nielsen Media Research firm, the fight attracted an average of 1.3 million viewers on the HBO network, making it the 5th most watched bout of 2013.\n\nIn January 2014, 26 year old Andrzej Fonfara (25-2, 15 KOs) notified the IBF, who had ordered him to fight Dmitry Sukhotsky in a final eliminator, that he would pass on the opportunity because he had agreed a deal to fight lineal/WBC/\"The Ring\" champion Stevenson. IBF would instead order Sukhotsky to fight their #3 ranked Cedric Agnew. In February, Stevenson signed a deal with boxing adviser Al Haymon.The fight was scheduled for May 24 on HBO, until HBO cancelled the date from their boxing schedule. On March 25, Michel confirmed the fight would take place on Showtime instead. Stevenson started off very well, dropping his opponent twice with sharp lefts and appeared close to stopping his opponent. Fonfara however, recovered very well, even dropping Stevenson in the ninth round. Stevenson similarly recovered quickly. The two fighters exchanged punches in a good-action final round and the crowd gave the fight a standing ovation. Stevenson won the fight as the judges scored it 116-109, 115-110 & 115-110. CompuBox Stats showed over the 12 rounds, Stevenson landed 329 of 790 punches thrown (42%) and Fonfara landed 217 of his 613 thrown (35%). In the post-fight interview, Stevenson claimed he hurt his left hand in the second round. He added that he was willing to fight Bernard Hopkins or Sergey Kovalev next, but would leave the decision to his manager, Al Haymon. Kovalev's promoter stated that this fight may never happen. That the window has now closed, alleging that Stevenson's age is a contributing factor. The fight, which marked Stevenson's Showtime debut, averaged 672,000 viewers and peaked at 800,000 viewers.\n\nIn October 2014, promoter Yvon Michel of GYM announced that Stevenson would next defend his belts against Russian contender Dmitry Sukhotsky (22-2, 16 KOs) in Quebec City, Quebec at the Colisée Pepsi on December 19, 2014 on Showtime. Sukhotsky was on a four-fight win streak at the time. Michel explained Sukhotsky was selced as Stevenson's opponent because there would not have been enough time to get together and promote a fight with Jean Pascal (29-2-1, 17 KOs). He stated the Pascal fight would likely take place in the Spring of 2015. This was his fourth defense of his titles. Stevenson retained his belts via a fifth round stoppage following a one punch knockout. Stevenson was in control from the opening bell, throwing minimal punches as the crowd started to boo. In round 2, he managed to floor Sukhotsky with a left hand. According to CompuBox Stats, Stevenson landed 80 of 272 punches thrown (29%) and Sukhotsky landed only 23 oh his 136 thrown (17%).\n\nOn February 28, 2015 \"Premier Boxing Champions\" announced that Stevenson would defend his titles against 35 year old former WBC super middleweight champion Sakio Bika (32-6-3, 21 KOs) on April 4 at the Pepsi Coliseum in Quebec City. It was the first fight to headline PBC on CBS. Stevenson dropped Bika in rounds 6 and 9 en route to winning the fight on the scorecards after 12 rounds, retaining his world titles. The judges scored the fight (115–110, 116–110, 115–110). ESPN's Dan Rafael scored the fight 120-106 for Stevenson, who dominated the fight using his left hand. Bika failed to make an adjustment and get in much offence of his own. In round 5, Stevenson landed a left which dropped Bika, but referee Michael Griffin ruled it a slip. Bika however appeared hurt. In the post-fight interview, Stevenson said, \"I knew he is a tough guy, so I prepared for 12 rounds and I put on a good show. He's never been knocked out, but I dropped him.\" Stevenson admitted he felt Bika's power and was able to withstand anything that came his way.\n\nOn July 27, 2015 Premier Boxing Champions announced that Stevenson would headline a card on Spike TV on September 11 against WBC #9 ranked Tommy Karpency (25-4-1, 14 KOs) at the Ricoh Coliseum in Toronto. Karpency, previously coming off the biggest win of his career, a split decision win against Chad Dawson, the man who Stevenson beat to win the light heavyweight championship. Karpency was thought to be a stepping stone for Adonis, and he was. After barely escaping round 2, Karpency got knocked down at the beginning of round 3. He immediately knocked Karpency down after he got up, and the referee called a halt to the bout, awarding Stevenson a TKO victory in round 3. The fight averaged 581,000 viewers.\n\nIn November 2015, citing the fact that Stevenson hadn't faced a top-ranked opponent in the last two years, The Ring Magazine stripped Stevenson of his belt.\n\nOn May 31, 2016, it was announced that Stevenson would defend his WBC and Lineal titles against 28 year old southpaw Thomas Williams Jr. (20-1, 14 KOs) on July 16 in Quebec headlining a Premier Boxing Champions card. This was Stevenson's seventh defense of his WBC and Lineal light heavyweight titles. Williams weighed in the heaviest of the two at 174.6lbs with Stevenson in at 173.6lbs. In a brief slug fest, Stevenson knocked out Williams in round 4 to retain his titles in his seventh successful defense. Stevenson connected with a hard left to Williams' head in round one that floored him with approximately 30 seconds left, however Williams beat the referees count.\n\nUndefeated Colombian boxer Eleider Álvarez (22-0, 11 KOs) became mandatory challenger following his win over Isaac Chilemba in November 2015. He then knocked out former super-middleweight world champion Lucian Bute in February 2017 in a final eliminator to become mandatory challenger once again for the WBC light heavyweight title. On February 27, 2017 the WBC ordered negotiations to begin between Stevenson and Álvarez, who are both managed by Al Haymon and promoted by Yvon Michel of GYM for a deal to be reached within 30 days or they would force a purse bid on March 24. Stevenson had a return date scheduled for April 29 at the newly renovated Nassau Coliseum in New York. Promoter Yvon Michel, stated on behalf of Álvarez, that he had averted from his mandatory position to allow Stevenson a voluntary defence.\n\nOn April 8, Stevenson revealed on social media that he had finalized a deal to fight Andrzej Fonfara (29-4, 17 KOs) in a rematch from their first fight in 2014. Yvon Michel later told ESPN that the fight would take place in Canada, at the Centre Bell in Montreal Quebec on June 3, 2017. The last time Stevenson fought at that arena was in 2014 against Fonfara. Michel didn't go into detail around why a fight with Sean Monaghan, who he was tipped to fight originally in New York, never materialized, but said, if he continues winning, the fight could still happen. Fonfara started the fight well in round 1, connecting with the jab. Stevenson, who was patient with his left hand, eventually landed a left hook to the head of Fonfara, dropping him to the canvas. Fonfara beat the count, but was on steady legs and when he got backed up to in the corner, the bell saved him from an onslaught. Round 2 opened with Stevenson carrying on where he left of, pummeling Fonfara with huge lefts. The fight came to an abrupt end, when Fonfara's trainer, Virgil Hunter stepped up on the apron after just 28 seconds, motioning to the referee to stop the bout, which referee Michael Griffin did. Stevenson retained his WBC and Lineal world titles. When asked who Stevenson would fight next, he replied, \"I'm the greatest at 175. I don't have to call out anybody,\" On the same card, Eleider Álvarez defeated Jean Pascal via majority decision to remain mandatory to Stevenson.\n\nAfter Badou Jack (21-1-3, 13 KOs) defeated Nathan Cleverly in August 2017, to win the WBA 'Regular' light heavyweight title, he began to call out Stevenson, knowing that Stevenson had a mandatory challenger. Stevenson shrugged it off, claiming he was ready for anyone, \"It was a good performance. He beat Cleverly now. So now he called me out and I'm ready. I'm ready to fight and I'm ready to unify the title. For Andre Ward or him, I'm ready. It doesn't matter to me [which one]. It's great for me to unify and add another title to my collection. I want to unify the titles. This is my goal and that's what I want to do.\" On September 8, 2017 mutual promoter Yvon Michel disclosed that there was serious ongoing negotiations between Stevenson and mandatory challenger Eleider Álvarez (23-0, 11 KOs) to fight before the end on 2017. He revealed the fight would take place in Quebec. In September, Michel said that he had a difficult time finalizing a date and venue for the fight, which meant the fight could get pushed to the end of January 2018. He also responded to claims of Jack wanting to fight Stevenson, saying it would only be possible if it were a unification. Michel confirmed the fight would take place on Showtime in January 2018. Michel spoke to Showtime about not going head to head locally with David Lemieux's next fight, which would take place on December 16 on HBO. On November 8, there was rumours stating that Stevenson would once again pay Álvarez a step-aside fee, in order to fight Badou Jack. Álvarez spoke to TVA Sports saying, \"I do not think I'm going to fight Stevenson. I do expect to receive that (step-aside offer), and then I will analyze it with my team.\" On December 1, it was reported that GYM had offered Álvarez a step-aside deal which would give him 'a multi-fight agreement with six-figure guarantee per fight', with Stevenson being part of deal as well. On December 6, the WBC announced that they would investigate into Stevenson's title reign and lack of mandatories. A week later, the WBC stated they would allow Stevenson to avoid Álvarez once again in order to fight Jack. The WBC went on to state they would order Álvarez to fight Ukrainian boxer Oleksandr Gvozdyk (14-0, 12 KOs) for the interim title. Álvarez withdrew from the fight before the purse bid was scheduled on January 12, 2018. On January 24, 2018 Showtime confirmed the fight would take place on May 19 in Canada. The Bell Centre in Montreal was confirmed as the venue.\n\nOn April 11, news broke out from Álvarez's manager, Stephane Lepine that a deal was yet to be reached with Álvarez to be properly compensated. Yvon Michel admitted he was working on a deal to keep Álvarez happy and this was the same reason as to why tickets had not yet gone on sale for the Stevenson-Jack fight, which was a month away. On April 18, it was announced that a deal had been reached for Álvarez to challenge Sergey Kovalev (32-2-1, 28 KOs) for his WBO light heavyweight title on HBO. Kovalev was originally scheduled to fight contender Marcus Browne in the summer of 2018, however due to having been arrested for domestic violence, Kovalev's promoter, Kathy Duva of Main Events got in contact with Álvarez's manager Lepine about a potential fight. Due to Álvarez fighting Kovalev, this meant the announcement of Stevenson vs. Jack would be imminent. On April 23, the card was moved from Montreal and instead scheduled to take place at the Air Canada Center in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. A day later, the official press conference was held to announce the fight.\n\nStevenson and Jack fought to a majority draw in a competitive bout. One judge scored the fight 115-113 in favor of Jack, whilst the remaining two judges overruled the decision, scoring the fight 114-114. Stevenson outpointed Jack in the early rounds being more active, however from round 5, it was Jack who was the busier and accurate of the two. From rounds 7 through 10, Jack out landed Stevenson 114-40 in total shots landed. It was in round 10 were Jack was hurt from multiple body shots from Stevenson's right hand. Stevenson carried the momentum into round 11 but it was Jack who finished the fight stronger. In round 7, Stevenson complained to referee Ian John Lewis about low blows and in round 8, Jack was warned. Jack later explained Stevenson's cup was low, hence why the shots looked like low blows. With the draw, Stevenson retained his WBC and Lineal titles for the ninth time.\n\nDuring the post fight interviews, Stevenson told Steve Gray, \"I won the fight because I hurt him in the body. I hurt him in the body and he got slowed down. I kept the pressure on him. He was moving and moving – slick, slick – but I touched him more of the time and I think I won this fight.\" Speaking on the 3rd draw in his last 4 fights (before Bute was DQ'd for failed drug test), Jack stated, \"I have no idea. It could be they're jealous of Floyd (Mayweather). I'm one of Floyd's top fighters. Maybe they don't like Floyd. Maybe they're trying to – you know, I don't know. To be honest, I don't know. I've gotta thank God for everything. … I can't do anything about it. I thought I definitely won the fight, definitely won the fight. Nobody's complaining and no judge had him winning.\" According to CompuBox Stats, Stevenson landed 165 of 622 punches thrown (27%), 87 of which where power shots landed to the body and Jack landed 209 of his 549 thrown (38%) The fight averaged 535,000 viewers and peaked at 611,000 viewers on Showtime. The fight aired on pay-per-view in Canada.\n\nOn June 18, 2018 the WBC ordered Stevenson to make a mandatory defence against interim champion Oleksandr Gvozdyk (15-0, 12 KOs). In case a deal could not be reached, purse bids were set for July 2, where the split of 65-35 would be in favour of Stevenson. Yvon Michel of GYM won the rights to promote the fight with the winning bid of $2.1 million. He stated the fight was being targeted for November 3 in Quebec. Top Rank made a bid of $1.65 million. There was controversy surrounding the purse bids and claims of collusion by Top Rank. Initially, the bid was won by Phil Weiss, on behalf of Tom Brown's TGB Promotions, with the winning bid being $3.102 million. TGB Promotions were known for having close ties with Al Haymon, who was also the advisor of Stevenson. According to reports, the winning bid was withdrawn just minutes later. The next highest bidder, in this case Michel, automatically won the bid, winning the rights to the fight. The WBC stated they would look into the claims. On July 6, the WBC upheld the purse bid giving Michel the promotional rights, however also stated they would impose punishment on TGB promotions of some sort. WBC president tweeted the bout would take place on December 1, 2018. Showtime confirmed they would televise the bout, which took place at the Videotron Centre in Quebec, before the Deontay Wilder-Tyson Fury PPV telecast begins, which would take place at the Staples Center in Los Angeles.\n\nGvozdyk defeated Stevenson by an 11th round knockout, to take the title. Stevenson was transported to the hospital on a stretcher, where he was listed in critical condition but was upgraded to stable the next day.\n\nIn 2012, in response to questioning at a press conference before a fight, Stevenson admitted to serving jail time in Bordeaux, Quebec on charges of managing prostitutes, assault, and making threats. Stevenson served four years in prison for these crimes and crimes that took place while in prison, and was released in 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2139145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139145", "title": "Agrippa the Skeptic", "text": "Agrippa the Skeptic\n\nAgrippa () was a Pyrrhonist philosopher who probably lived towards the end of the 1st century CE. He is regarded as the author of \"The Five Tropes (or Modes) of Agrippa\" (), which are purported to establish the impossibility of certain knowledge.\n\nThese \"tropes\" or \"modes\" are given by Sextus Empiricus in his \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\". According to Sextus, they are attributed only \"to the more recent skeptics\" and it is by Diogenes Laertius that we attribute them to Agrippa. The tropes are: \n\nWith reference to these five tropes, that the first and third are a short summary of the earlier Ten Modes of Aenesidemus. The three additional ones show a progress in the Pyrrhonist system, building upon the objections derived from the fallibility of sense and opinion to more abstract and metaphysical grounds.\n\nAccording to Victor Brochard “the five tropes can be regarded as the most radical and most precise formulation of skepticism that has ever been given. In a sense, they are still irresistible today.”\n\n"}
{"id": "30906179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30906179", "title": "Allometric engineering", "text": "Allometric engineering\n\nAllometric engineering is the process of experimentally shifting the scaling relationships, for body size or shape, in a population of organisms. More specifically, the process of experimentally breaking the tight covariance evident among component traits of a complex phenotype by altering the variance of one trait relative to another. Typically, body size is one of the two traits. The measurements of the two traits are plotted against each other and the scaling relationship can be represented as: formula_1. Manipulations of this sort alter the scaling relationships either by shifting the intercept (\"b\"), slope (\"m\") or both to create novel variants (see: Allometry, for more details). These novel variants can then be tested for differences in performance or fitness. Through careful testing, one could sequentially test each component of a trait suite to determine how each part contributes to the function of the entire complex phenotype, and ultimately the fitness of the organism. This technique allows for comparison within or among biological groups differing in size by adjusting morphology to match one another and comparing their performances.\n\nAllometric engineering has been used to test David Lack's hypothesis in the lizard \"Sceloporus occidentalis\". In this study, two populations were \"engineered\" to fit the morphology of the other by manipulating egg yolk quantity, removing effect of size difference between groups. After manipulation, they found that speed was inversely proportional to body size.\n\nMaternal investment was \"allometrically engineered\" by surgically removing an ovary in cockroaches (\"Diploptera punctata\"). This effectively reduced number of progeny and increased resource allocation to each offspring. They coupled this manipulation with group effects (faster development in large groups), and found that maternal investment can overcome group effect.\n\nThe male long-tailed widowbird (\"Euplectes progne\") has exceptionally long tail feathers roughly half a meter in length. Male tail feathers were cropped and glued and those with artificially enhanced tail lengths secured the most matings, demonstrating female preference.\n\nThe fly \"Zonosemata vittigera\" has a banding pattern on its wings that was found to mimic movements of a jumping spider. Greene \"et al.\" engineered novel phenotypes, breaking correlation between a behavior and morphology, by cutting and transplanting the wings of this fly with the common housefly. This manipulation demonstrated that it was behavior coupled with the banding pattern that deterred jumping spiders from attacking, though not other predators.\n\nCurrent uses have involved truncation or cropping, yolk manipulation, hormonal treatments, maternal allocation, temperature manipulation, or altering the nutritional states. Each method undoubtedly has its merits and pitfalls to consider before designing an experiment, but these techniques are opening new avenues of research in comparative and evolutionary biology.\n\n"}
{"id": "6010040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010040", "title": "Anaspididae", "text": "Anaspididae\n\nAnaspididae is a family of freshwater crustacean that is endemic to Tasmania, Australia. The family contains 3 genera and 5 species. This group of crustaceans are considered living fossils. They are commonly and collectively known as the Tasmanian anaspid crustaceans. Anaspidids have stalked eyes, long antennae and antennules, and a slender body with no carapace. The two species of \"Allanaspides\" and the single species of \"Paranaspides\" are all listed as vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.\n\n"}
{"id": "58610345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58610345", "title": "Bentley Purchase", "text": "Bentley Purchase\n\nSir William Bentley Purchase (31 December 1890 – 27 September 1961) was a British physician and barrister. He pursued a career in medical examination and served, from 1930 to 1958, as the coroner with jurisdiction over much of London. He is best known for his role in the development of Operation Mincemeat, a deception operation during the Second World War.\n\nBentley Purchase's father, Sir William Henry Purchase of Luton, was a successful importer of straw goods such as hats. The family had means to enroll young Bentley in Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge, where he pursued the liberal arts. Graduating from Cambridge in 1911, Purchase studied law and entered medical studies at the London Hospital, graduating in 1914. Bentley was commissioned as a medical officer in the Royal Artillery on the Western Front in 1914-18, and was awarded the Military Cross in 1917. \n\nUpon the coming of peacetime Purchase continued his career pathway and resumed his interrupted legal and medical studies, becoming a barrister in the Inner Temple in 1919 and a Bachelor in Medicine in 1921. He was now qualified to serve as a coroner with jurisdiction over cases that required the presence of a medical examiner. He worked two part-time jobs in the 1920s, as a lawyer and as a deputy coroner within East London. During this period he married Beryl Chapman, with whom he would have two children.\n\nIn 1930, upon the retirement of the coroner Sir Walter Schröder, Bentley Purchase won appointment as a full-fledged coroner. His jurisdiction shifted over different neighborhoods within London, but always included the broad area of dense population from the City of Westminster on the southwest to Islington toward the northeast. Purchase served as an official coroner within London from 1930 until 1958, winding down in that year by moving his office from London to Ipswich. Purchase served in office as the Ipswich coroner until his death in 1961, which occurred by mishap. Attempting to repair his television antenna, the attorney-physician tumbled from the roof of his private home. He was age 70.\n\nAs coroner, Purchase held approximately 20,000 inquests into deaths that, in his medico-legal judgement, deserved formal inquiry. In cases where the cause of death was unknown or where inquiries were required to assist the police, Purchase worked closely with specialists in forensic pathology such as Bernard Spilsbury and Keith Simpson. Murder cases inquired into by Purchase included homicides committed by John Christie and John Haigh.\n\nAlso as coroner, Purchase provided a corpse in 1943 for use in Operation Mincemeat. The World War II special operation centered on the release in Spanish territorial waters of a body dressed in the uniform of a British marine officer-courier. The body was supposed to be carrying top-secret planning documents in preparation for Anglo-American operations in the Mediterranean Sea. As a counter-intelligence initiative, the operation pointed German military intelligence, the Abwehr, toward locations far away from the Allies' true target of Sicily. The German armed forces did not take steps to establish tactical air command over Sicily at the time of the Allies' amphibious assault, and Operation Mincemeat is said to have saved thousands of lives.\n\nDuring his active life in London, Bentley Purchase was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1949. Upon the winding-down of his responsibilities in 1958, he accepted a knighthood. After his death in 1961, a friendly biography (Robert Jackson, \"Coroner: the Biography of Sir Bentley Purchase\", London: George G. Harrap and Co.), was published in 1963.\n"}
{"id": "1762628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1762628", "title": "Biostimulation", "text": "Biostimulation\n\nBiostimulation involves the modification of the environment to stimulate existing bacteria capable of bioremediation. This can be done by addition of various forms of rate limiting nutrients and electron acceptors, such as phosphorus, nitrogen, oxygen, or carbon (e.g. in the form of molasses). Alternatively, remediation of halogenated contaminants in anaerobic environments may be stimulated by adding electron donors (organic substrates), thus allowing indigenous microorganisms to use the halogenated contaminants as electron acceptors.EPA Anaerobic Bioremediation Technologies Additives are usually added to the subsurface through injection wells, although injection well technology for biostimulation purposes is still emerging. Removal of the contaminated material is also an option, albeit an expensive one. Biostimulation can be enhanced by bioaugmentation. This process, overall, is referred to as bioremediation and is an EPA-approved method for reversing the presence of oil or gas spills. While biostimulation is usually associated with remediation of hydrocarbon or high production volume chemical spills, it is also potentially useful for treatment of less frequently encountered contaminant spills, such as pesticides, particularly herbicides.\n\nThe primary advantage of biostimulation is that bioremediation will be undertaken by already present native microorganisms that are well-suited to the subsurface environment, and are well distributed spatially within the subsurface. The primary disadvantage is that the delivery of additives in a manner that allows the additives to be readily available to subsurface microorganisms is based on the local geology of the subsurface. Tight, impermeable subsurface lithology (tight clays or other fine-grained material) make it difficult to spread additives throughout the affected area. Fractures in the subsurface create preferential pathways in the subsurface which additives preferentially follow, preventing even distribution of additives.\n\nRecently a number of products have been introduced which allow popular use of bioremediation using biostimulative methods. They may harness local bacteria using biostimulation by creating a hospitable environment for hydrocarbon-devouring microorganisms, or they may introduce foreign bacteria into the environment as a direct application to the hydrocarbon. While the jury is out as to whether either is particularly more effective than the other, \"prima facie\" consideration suggests the introduction of foreign bacteria to any environment stands a chance of mutating organisms already present and affecting the biome.\n\nInvestigations to determine subsurface characteristics (such as natural groundwater velocity during ambient conditions, hydraulic conductivity of the subsurface, and lithology of the subsurface) are important in developing a successful biostimulation system. In addition, a pilot-scale study of the potential biostimulation system should be undertaken prior to full-scale design and implementation.\n\nHowever, some biostimulative agents may be used in chaotic surfaces such as open water and sand so long as they are [oleophilic], meaning that they bond exclusively to hydrocarbons, and basically sink in the water column, bonding to oil, where they then float to the water's surface, exposing the hydrocarbon to more abundant sunlight and oxygen where greater micro-organic aerobic activity can be encouraged. Some consumer-targeted biostimulants bond possess this quality, others do not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2933392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2933392", "title": "Biting", "text": "Biting\n\nBiting is a common behavior which involves the opening and closing of the jaw found in many animals. This behavior is found in reptiles, mammals, fish and amphibians. Arthropods can also bite. Biting is a physical action in an attack but it is also a normal activity or response in an animal as it eats, carries objects, softens and prepares food for its young, removes ectoparasites from its body surface, removes plant seeds attached to its fur or hair, scratches itself, and grooms other animals and for defense. Animal bites often result in serious infections and death. Dog bites are commonplace, with human children the most commonly bitten and the face being the most common target.\n\nBiting is also an age appropriate behavior and reaction for human children 30 months and younger. Conversely, children above this age are expected to have verbal skills to explain their needs and dislikes, as biting is not seen as age appropriate. Biting may be prevented by methods including redirection, change in the environment and responding to biting by talking about appropriate ways to express anger and frustration. School age children, those older than 30 months, who habitually bite may require professional intervention. Some discussion of human biting appears in \"The Kinsey Report on Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\".\n\n"}
{"id": "440044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440044", "title": "Black Dahlia", "text": "Black Dahlia\n\nElizabeth Short (July 29, 1924 – January 14 or 15, 1947), known posthumously as the \"Black Dahlia\", was an American woman who was found murdered in the Leimert Park neighborhood of Los Angeles, California. Her case became highly publicized due to the graphic nature of the crime, which included her corpse having been mutilated and severed at the waist.\n\nA native of Boston, Short spent her early life in Massachusetts and Florida before relocating to California, where her father lived. It is commonly held that Short was an aspiring actress, though she had no known acting credits or jobs during her time in Los Angeles. She would acquire the nickname of the Black Dahlia posthumously (after the owner of a drugstore in Long Beach, California told reporters that male customers had that name for her), as newspapers of the period often nicknamed particularly lurid crimes; the term may have originated from a film noir murder mystery, \"The Blue Dahlia\", released in April 1946. After the discovery of her body on January 15, 1947, the Los Angeles Police Department began an extensive investigation that produced over 150 suspects, but yielded no arrests.\n\nShort's unsolved murder and the details surrounding it have had a lasting cultural intrigue, generating various theories and public speculation. Her life and death have been the basis of numerous books and films, and her murder is frequently cited as one of the most famous unsolved murders in American history, as well as one of the oldest unsolved cases in Los Angeles County. It has likewise been credited by historians as one of the first major crimes in post-World War II America to capture national attention.\n\nElizabeth Short was born in the Hyde Park section of Boston, Massachusetts, the third of five daughters of Cleo and Phoebe May Short (née Sawyer). Around 1927, the Short family relocated to Portland, Maine, but eventually settled in Medford, Massachusetts, a Boston suburb, where Short was raised. Short's father Cleo built miniature golf courses until the 1929 stock market crash, when he lost most of his savings and the family became broke. In 1930, Cleo's car was found abandoned on the Charlestown Bridge, and it was assumed that he had committed suicide by jumping into the Charles River. Believing her husband to be deceased, Phoebe moved with her five daughters into a small apartment in Medford and worked as a bookkeeper to support them.\n\nTroubled by bronchitis and severe asthma attacks, Short underwent lung surgery at age 15, after which doctors suggested she relocate to a milder climate during the winter months to prevent further respiratory problems. Short's mother then sent her to spend winters in Miami, Florida with family friends. During the next three years, Short lived in Florida during the winter months and spent the rest of the year in Medford with her mother and sisters. In her sophomore year, Short dropped out of Medford High School.\n\nIn late 1942, Phoebe received a letter of apology from her presumed-deceased husband, which revealed that he was in fact alive and had started a new life in California. In December, at age 18, Elizabeth relocated to Vallejo to live with her father, whom she had not seen since she was six years old. At the time, he was working at the nearby Mare Island Naval Shipyard on San Francisco Bay. Arguments between Short and her father led to her moving out in January 1943. Shortly after, she took a job at the Base Exchange at Camp Cooke (now Vandenberg Air Force Base), near Lompoc, living with several friends, and briefly with an Army Air Force sergeant who reportedly abused her. Short left Lompoc in mid-1943 and moved to Santa Barbara, where she was arrested on September 23, 1943 for underage drinking at a local bar. The juvenile authorities sent her back to Medford, but she returned instead to Florida, making only occasional visits to Massachusetts.\n\nWhile in Florida, Short met Major Matthew Michael Gordon, Jr., a decorated Army Air Force officer at the 2nd Air Commando Group. He was training for deployment to the China Burma India Theater of Operations of World War II. Short told friends that Gordon had written to propose marriage while he was recovering from injuries from a plane crash in India. She accepted his offer, but Gordon died in a second crash on August 10, 1945, less than a week before the Surrender of Japan ended the war.\n\nShe relocated to Los Angeles in July 1946 to visit Army Air Force Lieutenant Joseph Gordon Fickling, whom she had known from Florida. Fickling was stationed at the Naval Reserve Air Base in Long Beach. Short spent the last six months of her life in Southern California, mostly in the Los Angeles area; shortly before her death, she had been working as a waitress, and rented a room behind the Florentine Gardens nightclub on Hollywood Boulevard. Short has been variously described and depicted as an aspiring or \"would-be\" actress. According to some sources, she did in fact have aspirations to be a film star, though she had no known acting jobs or credits.\n\nOn January 9, 1947, Short returned to her home in Los Angeles after a brief trip to San Diego with Robert \"Red\" Manley, a 25-year-old married salesman she had been dating. Manley stated that he dropped Short off at the Biltmore Hotel located at 506 South Grand Avenue in downtown Los Angeles, and that Short was to meet her sister, who was visiting from Boston, that afternoon. By some accounts, staff of the Biltmore recalled having seen Short using the lobby telephone. Shortly after, she was allegedly seen by patrons of the Crown Grill Cocktail Lounge at 754 South Olive Street, approximately away from the Biltmore Hotel.\n\nOn the morning of January 15, 1947, Short's naked body was found severed in two pieces on a vacant lot on the west side of South Norton Avenue, midway between Coliseum Street and West 39th Street (at ) in Leimert Park, Los Angeles. At the time, the neighborhood was largely undeveloped. Local resident Betty Bersinger discovered the body at approximately 10:00 a.m. while she was walking with her three-year-old daughter. Bersinger initially thought she had found a discarded store mannequin. When she realized it was a corpse, she rushed to a nearby house and telephoned the police.\n\nShort's severely mutilated body was completely severed at the waist and drained entirely of blood, leaving its skin a pallid white. Medical examiners determined that she had been dead for around ten hours prior to the discovery, leaving her time of death either sometime during the evening of January 14, or the early morning hours of January 15. The body had obviously been washed by the killer. Short's face had been slashed from the corners of her mouth to her ears, creating an effect known as the \"Glasgow smile\". She had several cuts on her thigh and breasts, where entire portions of flesh had been sliced away. The lower half of her body was positioned a foot away from the upper, and her intestines had been tucked neatly beneath her buttocks. The corpse had been \"posed\", with her hands over her head, her elbows bent at right angles, and her legs spread apart.\n\nUpon the discovery, a crowd of both passersby and reporters began to gather; \"Los Angeles Herald-Express\" reporter Aggie Underwood was among the first to arrive at the scene, and took several photos of the corpse and crime scene. Near the body, detectives located a heel print on the ground amid the tire tracks, and a cement sack containing watery blood was also found nearby.\n\nAn autopsy of Short's body was performed on January 16, 1947, by Dr. Frederick Newbarr, the Los Angeles County coroner. Newbarr's autopsy report stated that Short was tall, weighed , and had light blue eyes, brown hair, and badly decayed teeth. There were ligature marks on her ankles, wrists, and neck, and an \"irregular laceration with superficial tissue loss\" on her right breast. Newbarr also noted superficial lacerations on the right forearm, left upper arm, and the lower left side of the chest.\nThe body had been cut completely in half between the second and third lumbar vertebrae, thus severing the intestine at the duodenum. Newbarr's report noted \"very little\" ecchymosis (bruising) along the incision line, suggesting it had been performed after death. Another \"gaping laceration\" measuring in length ran longitudinally from the umbilicus to the suprapubic region. The lacerations on each side of the face, which extended from the corners of the lips, were measured at on the right side of the face, and on the left. The skull was not fractured, but there was noted bruising on the front and right side of her scalp, with a small amount of bleeding in the subarachnoid space on the right side, consistent with blows to the head. The cause of death was determined to be hemorrhaging from the lacerations to her face and the shock from blows on the head and face. Newbarr noted that Short's anal canal was dilated at , suggesting that she may have been raped. Samples were taken from her body testing for the presence of sperm, but the results came back negative.\n\nPrior to the autopsy, police had quickly been able to identify the victim as Short after sending copies of her fingerprints to Washington, D.C. via Soundphoto, a primitive fax machine of the era; the prints matched those given by Short during her 1943 arrest. Immediately following Short's identification, reporters from William Randolph Hearst's \"Los Angeles Examiner\" contacted her mother, Phoebe Short, in Boston, and told her that her daughter had won a beauty contest. It was only after prying as much personal information as they could from Phoebe that the reporters revealed that her daughter had in fact been murdered. The newspaper offered to pay her airfare and accommodations if she would travel to Los Angeles to help with the police investigation. That was yet another ploy since the newspaper kept her away from police and other reporters to protect its scoop. The \"Examiner\" and another Hearst newspaper, the \"Los Angeles Herald-Express\", later sensationalized the case, with one article from the \"Examiner\" describing the black tailored suit Short was last seen wearing as \"a tight skirt and a sheer blouse\". The media nicknamed her as the \"Black Dahlia\" and described her as an \"adventuress\" who \"prowled Hollywood Boulevard\". Additional newspaper reports, such as one published in the \"Los Angeles Times\" on January 17, deemed the murder a \"sex fiend slaying\".\n\nOn January 21, 1947, a person claiming to be Short's killer placed a phone call to the office of James Richardson, the editor of the \"Examiner\", congratulating Richardson on the newspaper's coverage of the case, and stated he planned on eventually turning himself in, but not before allowing police to pursue him further. Additionally, the caller told Richardson to \"expect some souvenirs of Beth Short in the mail\".\nOn January 24, a suspicious manila envelope was discovered by a U.S. Postal Service worker: The envelope had been addressed to \"The \"Los Angeles Examiner\" and other Los Angeles papers\" with individual words that had been cut-and-pasted from newspaper clippings; additionally, a large message on the face of the envelope read: \"Here is Dahlia's belongings [,] letter to follow\". The envelope contained Short's birth certificate, business cards, photographs, names written on pieces of paper, and an address book with the name Mark Hansen embossed on the cover. The packet had been carefully cleaned with gasoline, similarly to Short's body, which led police to suspect the packet had been sent directly by her killer. Despite the efforts to clean the packet, several partial fingerprints were lifted from the envelope and sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for testing; however, the prints were compromised in transit and thus could not be properly analyzed. The same day the packet was received by the \"Examiner\", a handbag and a black suede shoe were reported to have been seen on top of a garbage can in an alley a short distance from Norton Avenue, from where Short's body had been discovered. The items were recovered by police, but they had also been wiped clean with gasoline, destroying any fingerprints.\n\nPolice quickly deemed Mark Hansen, the owner of the address book found in the packet, a suspect. Hansen was a wealthy local nightclub and theater owner and an acquaintance at whose home Short had stayed with friends, and according to some sources, he also confirmed that the purse and shoe discovered in the alley were in fact Short's. Ann Toth, Short's friend and roommate, told investigators that Short had recently rejected sexual advances from Hansen, and suggested it as potential cause for him to kill her; however, he was cleared of suspicion in the case. In addition to Hansen, the Los Angeles Police Department interviewed over 150 men in the ensuing weeks whom they believed to be potential suspects. Manley, who had been one of the last people to see Short alive, was also investigated, but was cleared of suspicion after passing numerous polygraph examinations. Police also interviewed several persons found listed in Hansen's address book, including Martin Lewis, who had been an acquaintance of Short's. Lewis was able to provide an alibi for the date of Short's murder, as he was in Portland, Oregon visiting his father-in-law, who was dying of kidney failure.\n\nA total of 750 investigators from the LAPD and other departments worked on the case during its initial stages, including 400 sheriff's deputies and 250 California State Patrol officers. Various locations were searched for potential evidence, including storm drains throughout Los Angeles, abandoned structures, and various sites along the Los Angeles River, but the searches yielded no further evidence. City Councilman Lloyd G. Davis posted a $10,000 () reward for information leading police to Short's killer. After the announcement of the reward, various persons came forward with confessions, most of which police dismissed as false. Several of the false confessors were charged with obstruction of justice.\n\nOn January 26, another letter was received by the \"Examiner\", this time handwritten, which read: \"Here it is. Turning in Wed., Jan. 29, 10 am. Had my fun at police. Black Dahlia Avenger\". The letter also named a location at which the supposed killer would turn himself in. Police waited at the location on the morning of January 29, but the alleged killer did not appear. Instead, at 1:00pm, the \"Examiner\" offices received another cut-and-pasted letter, which read: \"Have changed my mind. You would not give me a square deal. Dahlia killing was justified.\"\n\nThe graphic nature of the crime and the subsequent letters received by the \"Examiner\" had resulted in a media frenzy surrounding Short's murder. Both local and national publications covered the story heavily, many of which reprinted sensationalistic reports suggesting that Short had been tortured for hours prior to her death; the information, however, was false, yet police allowed the reports to circulate so as to conceal Short's true cause of death—cerebral hemorrhage—from the public. Further reports about Short's personal life were publicized, including details about her alleged declining of Hansen's romantic advances; additionally, a stripper who was an acquaintance of Short's told police that she \"liked to get guys worked up over her, but she'd leave them hanging dry.\" This led some reporters (namely the \"Herald-Express\"s Bevo Means) and detectives to look into the possibility that Short was a lesbian, and begin questioning employees and patrons of gay bars in Los Angeles; this claim, however, remained unsubstantiated. The \"Herald-Express\" also received several letters from the purported killer, again made with cut-and-pasted clippings, one of which read: \"I will give up on Dahlia killing if I get 10 years. Don't try to find me.\"\n\nOn February 1, the \"Los Angeles Daily News\" reported that the case had \"run into a Stone Wall\", with no new leads for investigators to pursue. The \"Examiner\" continued to run stories on the murder and the investigation, which was front-page news for 35 days following the discovery of the body. When interviewed, lead investigator Captain Jack Donahue told the press that he believed Short's murder had taken place in a remote building or shack on the outskirts of Los Angeles, and her body transported into the city where it was disposed of. Based on the precise cuts and dissection of Short's corpse, the LAPD looked into the possibility that the murderer may have been a surgeon, doctor, or someone with medical knowledge. In mid-February 1947, the LAPD served a warrant to the University of Southern California Medical School, which was located near the site where Short's body had been discovered, requesting a complete list of the program's students. The university agreed so long as the students' identities remained private, and background checks were conducted, but they yielded no results.\n\nBy the spring of 1947, Short's murder had become a cold case with few new leads. Sergeant Finis Brown, one of the lead detectives on the case, blamed the press for compromising the investigation through reporters' probing of details and unverified reporting. In September 1949, a grand jury convened to discuss inadequacies in the LAPD's homicide unit based on their failure to solve numerous murders—especially those of women and children—in the past several years, Short's being one of them. In the aftermath of the grand jury, further investigation was done on Short's past, with detectives tracing her movements between Massachusetts, California, and Florida, and also interviewed people who knew her in Texas and New Orleans. However, the interviews yielded no useful information in the murder.\n\nThe notoriety of Short's murder has spurred a large number of confessions over the years, many of which have been deemed false. During the initial investigation into her murder, police received a total of 60 confessions, most made by men. Since that time, over 500 people have confessed to the crime, some of whom had not even been born at the time of her death. Sergeant John P. St. John, a detective who worked the case until his retirement, stated, \"It is amazing how many people offer up a relative as the killer.\"\n\nIn 2003, Ralph Asdel, one of the original detectives on the case, told the \"Times\" that he believed he had interviewed Short's killer, a man who had been seen with his sedan parked near the vacant lot where her body was discovered in the early morning hours of January 15, 1947. A neighbor driving by that day stopped to dispose of a bag of lawn clippings in the vacant lot when he saw a parked sedan, allegedly with its right rear door open; the driver of the sedan was standing in the lot. His arrival apparently startled the owner of the sedan, who approached his car and peered in the window before returning to the sedan and driving away. The owner of the sedan was followed to a local restaurant where he worked, but was ultimately cleared of suspicion.\n\nSuspects remaining under discussion by various authors and experts include a doctor named Walter Bayley, proposed by the former \"Times\" copyeditor Larry Harnisch; \"Times\" publisher Norman Chandler, whom biographer Donald Wolfe claims impregnated Short; Leslie Dillon, Joseph A. Dumais, Artie Lane (a.k.a. Jeff Connors), Mark Hansen, Dr. Francis E. Sweeney, George Hill Hodel, Hodel's friend Fred Sexton, George Knowlton, Robert M. \"Red\" Manley, Patrick S. O'Reilly, and Jack Anderson Wilson.\n\nSeveral crime authors, as well as Cleveland detective Peter Merylo, have suspected a link between the Short murder and the Cleveland Torso Murders, which took place in Cleveland, Ohio between 1934 and 1938. As part of their investigation into other murders that took place before and after the Short killing, the original LAPD investigators studied the Torso Murders in 1947 but later discounted any relationship between the two cases. In 1980, new evidence implicating a former Torso Murder suspect, Jack Anderson Wilson (a.k.a. Arnold Smith), was investigated by Detective St. John in relation to Short's murder. He claimed he was close to arresting Wilson for Short's murder, but that Wilson died in a fire on February 4, 1982. The possible connection between Short's murder and the Torso Murders received renewed media attention when it was profiled on the NBC series \"Unsolved Mysteries\" in 1992, in which Eliot Ness biographer Oscar Fraley suggested Ness knew the identity of the killer responsible for both cases.\n\nThe February 10, 1947 murder of Jeanne French in Los Angeles was also considered by the media and detectives as possibly being connected to Short's killing. French's body was discovered in west Los Angeles on Grand View Boulevard, nude and badly beaten. Written on her stomach in lipstick was what appeared to say \"Fuck You B.D.\", and the letters \"TEX\" below. The \"Herald-Express\" covered the story heavily, and drew comparisons to the Short murder less than a month prior, surmising the initials \"B.D.\" to stand for \"Black Dahlia\". According to historian Jon Lewis, however, the scrawling actually read \"P.D.\", ostensibly standing for \"police department\".\n\nCrime authors such as Steve Hodel (son of George Hill Hodel) and William Rasmussen have suggested a link between the Short murder and the 1946 murder and dismemberment of six-year-old Suzanne Degnan in Chicago, Illinois. Captain Donahoe of the LAPD stated publicly that he believed the Black Dahlia and the Chicago Lipstick Murders were \"likely connected\". Among the evidence cited is the fact that Short's body was found on Norton Avenue, three blocks west of Degnan Boulevard, Degnan being the last name of the girl from Chicago. There were also striking similarities between the handwriting on the Degnan ransom note and that of the \"Black Dahlia Avenger\". Both texts used a combination of capitals and small letters (the Degnan note read in part \"BuRN This FoR heR SAfTY\" [sic]), and both notes contain a similar misshapen letter P and have one word that matches exactly. Convicted serial killer William Heirens served life in prison for Degnan's murder. Initially arrested at 17 for breaking into a residence close to that of Degnan, Heirens claimed he was tortured by police, forced to confess, and made a scapegoat for the murder. After being taken from the medical infirmary at the Dixon Correctional Center on February 26, 2012 for health problems, Heirens died at the University of Illinois Medical Center on March 5, 2012, at 83.\n\nAdditionally, Steve Hodel has implicated his father, George Hodel, as Short's killer, citing his father's training as a surgeon as circumstantial evidence. In 2003, it was revealed in notes from the 1949 grand jury report that investigators had wiretapped Hodel's home, and obtained recorded conversation of him with an unidentified visitor, saying: \"Supposin' I did kill the Black Dahlia. They couldn't prove it now. They can't talk to my secretary because she's dead.\"\n\nIn 1991, Janice Knowlton, a woman who was ten years old at the time of Short's murder, claimed that she witnessed her father, George Knowlton, beat Short to death with a clawhammer in the detached garage of her family's home in Westminster. She also published a book titled \"Daddy was the Black Dahlia Killer\" in 1995, in which she made additional claims that her father sexually molested her. The book was condemned as \"trash\" by Knowlton's stepsister Jolane Emerson in 2004, who stated: \"She believed it, but it wasn't reality. I know, because I lived with her father for sixteen years.\" Additionally, Detective St. John told the \"Times\" that Knowlton's claims were \"not consistent with the facts of the case\".\n\nJohn Gilmore's 1994 book \"\", suggests a possible connection between Short's murder and that of Georgette Bauerdorf, a socialite who was strangled to death in her West Hollywood home in 1944. Gilmore suggests that Short's employment at the Hollywood Canteen, where Bauerdorf also worked as a hostess, could be a potential connection between the two women. However, the claim that Short ever worked at the Hollywood Canteen has been disputed by others, such as the retired \"Times\" copyeditor Larry Harnisch (see \"Rumors and factual disputes\").\n\nThe 2017 book \"Black Dahlia, Red Rose\" by Piu Eatwell focuses on Leslie Dillon, a bellhop who was a former mortician's assistant; his associates Mark Hansen and Jeff Connors; and Sergeant Finis Brown, a lead detective who had links to Hansen and was allegedly corrupt. Eatwell posits that Short was murdered because she knew too much about the men's involvement in a scheme for robbing hotels. She further suggests that Short was killed at the Aster Motel in Los Angeles, where the owners reported finding one of their rooms \"covered in blood and fecal matter\" on the morning Short's body was found. The \"Examiner\" stated in 1949 that LA Police Chief WIlliam A. Worton denied that the Flower Street [Aster] Motel had anything to do with the case, although its rival newspaper, the \"Los Angeles Herald\", claimed that the murder took place there. Eatwell is working on a television documentary, and a revised edition of her book is due to be released in the autumn of 2018.\n\nIn 2000, Buz Williams, a retired detective with the Long Beach Police Department, wrote an article for the LBPD newsletter \"The Rap Sheet\" on Short's murder. Williams' father, Richard F. Williams, and his friend, Con Keller, were both members of LA's Gangster Squad investigating the case. Williams Sr believed that Dillon was the killer, and that when Dillon returned to his home state of Oklahoma, he was able to avoid extradition to California because his ex-wife Georgia Stevenson was second cousins with Governor Adlai Stevenson II of Illinois, who contacted the governor of Oklahoma on Dillon's behalf. Keller believed Hansen was the killer, as he had studied at a surgical school in Sweden and had thrown elaborate parties attended by prominent LAPD officials. Williams' article says that Dillon sued the LAPD for $3 million, but that the suit was dropped. Harnisch disputes this, claiming that Dillon was cleared by police after an exhaustive investigation, and that the District Attorney's files positively placed him in San Francisco when Short was killed. Harnisch claims that there was no LAPD coverup, and that Dillon did in fact receive a financial settlement from the City of Los Angeles, but has not produced concrete evidence to prove this.\n\nNumerous details regarding Short's personal life and death have been points of public dispute. The eager involvement of both the public and press in solving her murder have been credited as factors that complicated the investigation significantly, resulting in a complex, sometimes inconsistent narrative of events. According to Anne Marie DiStefano of the \"Portland Tribune\", many \"unsubstantiated stories\" have circulated about Short over the years: \"She was a prostitute, she was frigid, she was pregnant, she was a lesbian. And somehow, instead of fading away over time, the legend of the Black Dahlia just keeps getting more convoluted.\" Harnisch has refuted several supposed rumors and popular conceptions about Short and her murder and also disputed the validity of Gilmore's book \"Severed\", claiming the book is \"25% mistakes, and 50% fiction\". Harnisch also had examined the district attorney's files (he claimed that Steve Hodel has examined some of them pertaining to his father, along with \"Times\" columnist Steve Lopez) and contrary to Eatwell's claims, the files showed that Dillon was thoroughly investigated and was determined to have been in San Francisco when Short was killed. Harnisch speculated that Eatwell either did not find these files or she chose to ignore them.\n\nA number of people, none of whom knew Short, contacted police and the newspapers and claimed to have seen her during her so-called \"missing week\", between her January 9 disappearance and the discovery of her body, on January 15. Police and DA investigators ruled out each alleged sighting; in some cases, those interviewed were identifying other women whom they had mistaken for Short. Short's whereabouts in the days leading up to her murder and the discovery of her body are unknown.\n\nAfter the discovery of Short's body, numerous Los Angeles newspapers printed headlines claiming she had been tortured leading up to her death. This was denied by law enforcement at the time, but they allowed the claims to circulate so as to keep Short's actual cause of death a secret from the public. Some sources, such as Oliver Cyriax's \"Crime: An Encyclopedia\" (1993), state that Short's body was covered in cigarette burns inflicted on her while she was still alive, though there is no indication of this in her official autopsy report.\n\nIn \"Severed\", Gilmore states that the coroner who performed Short's autopsy suggested in conversation that she had been forced to consume feces based on his findings when examining the contents of her stomach. This claim has been denied by Harnisch and is also not indicated in Short's official autopsy, though it has been reprinted in several print and online media.\n\nAccording to newspaper reports shortly after the murder, Short received the nickname \"Black Dahlia\" from staff and patrons at a Long Beach drugstore in mid-1946 as wordplay on the film \"The Blue Dahlia\" (1946). Other popularly-circulated rumors claim that the media crafted the name due to Short's adorning her hair with dahlias.\n\nHowever, reports by DA investigators state that the nickname was invented by newspaper reporters covering her murder; \"Herald-Express\" reporter Bevo Means, who interviewed Short's acquaintances at the drugstore, has been credited with first using the \"Black Dahlia\" name, though reporters Underwood and Jack Smith have been alternately named as its creators. While some sources claim that Short was referred to or went by the name during her life, others dispute this. Both Gilmore and Harnisch agree that the name originated during Short's lifetime and was not a creation of the press: Harnisch states that it was in fact a nickname she earned from the staff of the Long Beach drugstore she frequented; in \"Severed\", Gilmore names an A.L. Landers as the proprietor of the drugstore, though he does not provide the store's name. Prior to the circulation of the \"Black Dahlia\" name, Short's killing had been dubbed the \"Werewolf Murder\" by the \"Herald-Express\" due to the brutal nature of the crime.\n\nMany true crime books claim that Short lived in or visited Los Angeles at various times in the mid-1940s, including Gilmore's \"Severed\", which claims she worked at the Hollywood Canteen. This is disputed by Harnisch, who states that Short did not, in fact, live in Los Angeles until after the canteen's closing in 1945. Although some of her acquaintances and several authors and journalists described Short as a prostitute or call girl during her time in Los Angeles, according to Harnisch, the contemporaneous grand jury proved that there was no existing evidence that she was ever a prostitute. Harnisch claims that the rumor regarding Short's history as a prostitute originates from John Gregory Dunne's 1977 novel \"True Confessions\", which is based in part on the crime.\n\nAnother widely circulated rumor (sometimes used to counter claims that Short was a prostitute) holds that Short was unable to have sexual intercourse because of a congenital defect that resulted in \"infantile genitalia\". Los Angeles County district attorney's files state that the investigators had questioned three men with whom Short had engaged in sex, including a Chicago police officer who was a suspect in the case; FBI files on the case also contain a statement from one of Short's alleged lovers. Short's autopsy itself, which was reprinted in full in Michael Newton's 2009 book \"The Encyclopedia of Unsolved Crimes\", notes that her uterus was \"small\"; however, no other information in the autopsy is provided that would suggest her reproductive organs were anything other than anatomically normal. The autopsy also states that Short was not and had never been pregnant, contrary to what had been claimed prior to and following her death.\n\nAnother rumor—that Short was a lesbian—has often circulated; according to Gilmore, this rumor began after Bevo Means of the \"Herald-Express\" was told by the deputy coroner that Short \"wasn't having sex with men\" due to her purportedly \"small\" genitalia. Means took this to mean that Short had sex with women, and both he and reporter Sid Hughes began fruitlessly investigating gay bars in Los Angeles for further information.\n\nShort is interred at the Mountain View Cemetery in Oakland. After her younger sisters had grown up and married, their mother, Phoebe, moved to Oakland to be near her daughter's grave. She finally returned to the East Coast in the 1970s, where she lived into her nineties. On February 2, 1947, just two weeks after Short's murder, Republican state assemblyman C. Don Field was prompted by the case to introduce a bill calling for the formation of a sex offender registry; the state of California would become the first U.S. state to make the registration of sex offenders mandatory.\n\nShort's murder has been described as one of the most brutal and culturally enduring crimes in American history, and \"Time\" magazine listed it as one of the most infamous unsolved cases in the world.\n\nShort's life and death have been the basis of numerous books and films, both fictionalized and non-fiction. Among the most famous fictional accounts of Short's death is James Ellroy's 1987 novel \"The Black Dahlia\", which, in addition to the murder, explored \"the larger fields of politics, crime, corruption, and paranoia in post-war Los Angeles\", according to cultural critic David M. Fine. Ellroy's novel was adapted into a 2006 film of the same name by director Brian De Palma. Both Ellroy's novel and its film adaptation bear little relation to the facts of the case. Short was also portrayed in heavily fictionalized accounts by Lucie Arnaz in the 1975 television film \"Who Is the Black Dahlia?\", and again by Mena Suvari in the series \"American Horror Story\", in 2011 featuring Short in the plot line of the episode \"Spooky Little Girl\", and again in 2018 with \"Return to Murder House\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8483179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8483179", "title": "Chindi", "text": "Chindi\n\nIn Navajo religious belief, a chindi () is the ghost left behind after a person dies, believed to leave the body with the deceased's last breath. It is everything that was bad about the person; the \"residue that man has been unable to bring into universal harmony\". Traditional Navajo believe that contact with a chindi can cause illness (\"ghost sickness\") and death. Chindi are believed to linger around the deceased's bones or possessions, so possessions are often destroyed after death and contact with bodies is avoided. After death, the deceased's name is never spoken, for fear that the chindi will hear and come and make one ill. Traditional Navajo practice is to allow death to occur outdoors, to allow the chindi to disperse. If a person dies in a house or hogan, that building is believed to be inhabited by the chindi and is abandoned. \n\n"}
{"id": "270789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270789", "title": "Confirmation holism", "text": "Confirmation holism\n\nIn philosophy of science, confirmation holism, also called epistemological holism, is the view that no individual statement can be confirmed or disconfirmed by an empirical test, but only a set of statements (a whole theory).\n\nIt is attributed to Willard Van Orman Quine who motivated his holism through extending Pierre Duhem's problem of underdetermination in physical theory to all knowledge claims. Duhem's idea was, roughly, that no theory of any type can be tested in isolation but only when embedded in a background of other hypotheses, e.g. hypotheses about initial conditions. Quine thought that this background involved not only such hypotheses but also our whole web-of-belief, which, among other things, includes our mathematical and logical theories and our scientific theories. This last claim is sometimes known as the Duhem–Quine thesis. A related claim made by Quine, though contested by some (see Adolf Grünbaum 1962), is that one can always protect one's theory against refutation by attributing failure to some other part of our web-of-belief. In his own words, \"Any statement can be held true come what may, if we make drastic enough adjustments elsewhere in the system.\".\n\nBy 1845 astronomers found that the orbit of planet Uranus around the Sun departed from expectations. Not concluding that Newton's law of universal gravitation was flawed, however, astronomers John Couch Adams as well as Urbain Le Verrier independently predicted a new planet, eventually known as Neptune, and even calculated its weight and orbit through Newton's theory. And yet neither did this empirical success of Newton's theory verify Newton's theory.\n\nLe Verrier soon reported that Mercury's perihelion—the peak of its orbital ellipse nearest to the Sun—advanced each time Mercury completed an orbit, a phenomenon not predicted by Newton's theory, which astrophysicists were so confident in that they predicted a new planet, named \"Vulcan\", which a number of astronomers subsequently claimed to have seen. In 1905, however, Einstein's special theory of relativity claimed that space and time are both relative, refuting the very framework of Newton's theory that claimed that space and time were both absolute.\n\nIn 1915, Einstein's general theory of relativity newly explained gravitation while precisely predicting Mercury's orbit. In 1919, astrophysicist Arthur Eddington led an expedition to test Einstein's prediction of the Sun's mass reshaping spacetime in its vicinity. The Royal Society announced confirmation—accepted by physicists as the fall of Newton's theory. Yet few theoretical physicists believe general relativity is a fundamentally accurate description of gravitation, and instead seek a theory of quantum gravity.\n\nSome scholars, like Quine, argue that if a prediction that a theory makes comes out true, then the corresponding piece of evidence confirms the whole theory and even the whole framework within which that theory is embedded. Some have questioned this radical or total form of confirmational holism. If total holism were true, they argue, that would lead to absurd consequences like the confirmation of arbitrary conjunctions. For example, if the general theory of relativity is confirmed by the perihelion of Mercury then, according to \"total\" holism, the conjunction of the general theory of relativity with the claim that the moon is made of cheese also gets confirmed. More controversially, the two conjuncts are meant to be confirmed in equal measure. \n\nThe critics of total holism do not deny that evidence may spread its support far and wide. Rather, they deny that it always spreads its support to the \"whole\" of any theory or theoretical framework that entails or probabilistically predicts the evidence. This view is known as partial holism. One early advocate of partial confirmational holism is Adolf Grünbaum (1962). Another is Ken Gemes (1993). The latter provides refinements to the hypothetico-deductive account of confirmation, arguing that a piece of evidence may be confirmationally relevant only to some content parts of a hypothesis. \n\nMore recently, and in a similar vein, Ioannis Votsis (2014) argues for an objectivist account of confirmation, according to which, monstrous hypotheses, i.e. roughly hypotheses that are put together in an \"ad hoc\" or arbitrary way, have internal barriers that prevent the spread of confirmation between their parts. Thus even though the conjunction of the general theory of relativity with the claim that the moon is made of cheese gets confirmed by the perihelion of Mercury since the latter is entailed by the conjunction, the confirmation does not spread to the conjunct that the moon is made of cheese. In other words, it is not always the case that support spreads to all the parts of a hypotheses, and even when it does, it is not always the case that it spreads to the different parts in equal measure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2684528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2684528", "title": "Cross-dominance", "text": "Cross-dominance\n\nCross-dominance, also known as mixed-handedness, hand confusion, or mixed dominance, is a motor skill manifestation in which a person favors one hand for some tasks and the other hand for others. For example, a cross-dominant person might write with the right hand but throw mainly with the left one.\n\nIt can also refer to mixed laterality, which refers to a person favoring eyes, ears, feet, or hands on one side of the body. A person who is cross-dominant can also be stronger on the opposite side of the body that they favor; for example, a right-handed person can be stronger on the left side. Cross-dominance can often be a problem when shooting or in activities that require aim, although athletes can still achieve success in sports that require accuracy, like passing in American football and shooting in basketball.\n\nIn baseball a left-handed batter is about two steps closer to first base than a right-handed batter, one important advantage. Because curveballs and sliders – the most commonly used breaking pitches in the game – curve in the direction of a pitcher's non-throwing hand, a batter who bats opposite the pitcher's throwing hand enjoys an advantage. Since most pitchers are right-handed, left-handed batters enjoy a second advantage over their right-handed counterparts. However, right-handed throwing is more valuable in the field. Every fielding position can be played by a right-handed thrower, although left-handers are considered more valuable pitchers and have a slight advantage at first base owing to the fact that they do not have to turn around to place their foot on first when stretching to catch a throw. Conversely, left-handed throwers are almost completely absent at the highest level at the other infield positions and at catcher. Switch hitting exists so a batter can hit from the side opposite every pitcher's throwing arm, but it has gained some criticism because a batter will always be more dominant from one side of the plate than the other; the switch hitter may be less reliable from one side. So, many baseball players are trained to be simply cross-dominant, batting solely left-handed and throwing solely right-handed. There are a few position players, such as Rickey Henderson and Cleon Jones, who bat right and throw left; but this serves as a substantial disadvantage. Rickey Henderson only did that because he was taught to bat right-handed by right-handed teammates.\n\nIn snooker, swapping the cue from one hand to the other in order to gain easy access to an oblique shot was long thought to be disrespectful, though more recently it has come to be accepted, especially since Ronnie O'Sullivan has dominated the world game and often escaped from snookers by switching to a left-handed action. There are also several players, most notably Barry Hawkins, who play with the opposite hand of their dominant one.\n\nSome well-known and influential people in history that have shown cross-dominant traits are Shigeru Miyamoto, Nikola Tesla, Albert Einstein, Benjamin Franklin, Michelangelo, Beethoven, Leonardo da Vinci, Sachin Tendulkar, Gandhi, and Jimi Hendrix.\n"}
{"id": "47459366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47459366", "title": "Cyclist fatality rate in U.S. by year", "text": "Cyclist fatality rate in U.S. by year\n\nList of cyclist or cycling deaths (any kind) in U.S. by year\n\n\"Cycling\" generally includes the riding of unicycles, tricycles, quadracycles, and \"similar\" human-powered transport (HPVs). Note however that many HPV users \"are not considered cyclists\", for example, using NHTSB statistics (US), skateboarder deaths are classified as pedestrians, yet it is unclear how trikkes are classified.\n\nThe following table summarizes the number of people killed and/or injured in fatal \"cyclist\" collisions (as defined/reported by NHTSB) in the USA. \n\n"}
{"id": "5074653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074653", "title": "Dawut Abdurehim", "text": "Dawut Abdurehim\n\nDawut Abdurehim is an Uyghur refugee best known for the more than seven years he spent in the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba.\nAmerican intelligence analysts estimate Abdurehim was born in 1974 in Ghulja, China, and assigned him the Internment Serial Number 289.\n\nAbdulrehim is one of 22 Uighurs who have been held in Guantanamo for many years despite it becoming clear early on that they were innocent.\n\nHe won his habeas corpus in 2008. Judge Ricardo Urbina declared his detention as unlawful and ordered to set him free in the United States. He was sent to Palau in October 2009.\n\nAbdurehim was among the 60% of prisoners who chose to participate in tribunal hearings. A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for the tribunal of each detainee.\n\nAbdurehim's memo accused him of the following:\n\nOn March 3, 2006, in response to a court order from Jed Rakoff the Department of Defense published a nine-page summarized transcript from his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.\n\nA writ of habeas corpus, Dawut Abdurehim v. George W. Bush, was submitted on\nDawut Abdurehim's behalf.\nIn response, on September 8, 2006, the Department of Defense released 31 pages of unclassified documents related to his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.\n\nHis Combatant Status Review Tribunal's Legal Sufficiency Review was drafted on January 18, 2005, by Assistant Legal Advisor Commander Karen M. Gibbs.\n\nHis enemy combatant status was confirmed by Tribunal panel 12.\n\nGibbs noted that the Tribunal panel \"substantially complied\" with the rules set out for Tribunals conduct.\n\nGibbs noted\nDawut Abdurehim testified on behalf of Abdul Razak.\nDawut Abdurehim testified that Abdul Razak had made two deliveries of food to the Uyghur camp, and that he was not involved in combat.\nDawut Abdurehim confirmed that they had fled the American aerial bombardment of Afghanistan with the other Uyghurs, through the mountains, into Pakistan, where they were turned over to the Pakistani authorities.\n\nOn Abdul Razak's detainee election form Dawut Abdurehim's name was recorded as \"Sabet\".\n\nBoth men testified that they had not seen the other man be trained on or carry any weapons.\n\nAbdul Razak testified that the camp was near a village he called Urhurl.\n\nFive Uyghurs, whose CSR Tribunals determined they had not been enemy combatants were transferred to detention in an Albanian refugee camp in 2006. A man who was born to Uyghur parents, in Saudi Arabia, and thus was considered a Uyghur, was nevertheless returned to Saudi Arabia. All the other Uyghurs remained in Guantanamo.\n\nIn September 2007, the Department of Defense released all the Summary of Evidence memos prepared for the Administrative Review Boards convened in 2006.\nThere is no record that a Board reviewed his status in 2005 or 2006.\n\nIn September 2007, the Department of Defense released the recommendation memos from 133 of the Administrative Review Boards that convened in 2005 and the recommendation memos from 55 of the Administrative Review Boards that convened in 2006.\nNo recommendation memos were released for Dawut Abdurehim.\n\nOn June 12, 2008, the United States Supreme Court restored the Guantanamo captives' access to the USA's civilian justice system in its ruling on Boumediene v. Bush.\nSpecifically it re-initiated the captives' habeas corpus petitions.\nIn an unrelated development Huzaifa Parhat's DTA appeal concluded that his Combatant Status Review Tribunal had erred in confirming he was an \"enemy combatant\", due to insufficient evidence.\nThe Department of Justice had the option of appealing the ruling, claiming it had new evidence. The Uyghurs' habeas petitions were the first to be scheduled for review.\nIn September 2008, days before the Department of Justice would have been expected to offer a justification in court for the Uyghurs' detention, and after six and half years of extrajudicial detention, the Department of Justice acknowledged the evidence to justify their detention did not exist.\n\nIn June 2009, the government of Palau announced that they would offer temporary asylum to some of the Uyghurs.\nThe government of Palau sent a delegation Guantanamo, and interviewed some of the remaining Uyghurs.\nSome of the Uyghurs declined to be interviewed by the Palauns. In the end the government of Palau offered asylum to twelve of the remaining thirteen Uyghurs. Palau declined to offer asylum to one of the Uyghurs who suffered from a mental disorder, brought on by detention, that was too profound to be treated in Palau.\n\nOn October 31, 2009, Abdulrehim, Ahmad Tourson, Abdul Ghappar Abdul Rahman, Edham Mamet, Anwar Hassan and Adel Noori were released and transferred to Palau.\n\nOn June 29, 2015, Nathan Vanderklippe, reporting in \"The Globe and Mail\", wrote that all the Uyghurs had quietly left Palau.\nThe \"Globe\" confirmed that Palau's agreement to give refuge to the Uyghurs was reached after the USA agreed to various secret payments. Those payments included $93,333 to cover each Uyghurs living expenses. The \"Globe\" confirmed that controversy still surrounded former President Johnson Toribiong who had used some of those funds to billet the Uyghurs in houses belonging to his relatives.\n\nVanderklippe reported that the men had never felt they could fit in with the Palauns. \nSome of the men compared Palau with a lusher, larger Guantanamo. Some of the men were able to bring their wives to Palau. Attempts to hold most regular jobs failed, due to cultural differences. Attempts to use their traditional leather-working skills to be self-employed failed. Eventually, all six men were employed as night-time security guards, a job that did not require interaction with Palauns.\n\nTragically, one of the men's young toddler, conceived and born on Palau, died after he fell off a balcony. \nAccording to Vanderklippe, the men's departure from Palau was quietly arranged with cooperation with American officials. He reported they left, one or two at a time, on commercial flights. Palaun officials would not share the Uyghurs destination.\n\n"}
{"id": "14711888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14711888", "title": "Death care industry in the United States", "text": "Death care industry in the United States\n\nThe term Death Care Industry refers to companies and organizations that provide services related to death: funerals, cremation or burial, and memorials. This includes for example funeral homes, coffins, crematoria, cemeteries, and headstones. The death care industry within the U.S. consists mainly of small, family-owned businesses.\n\nThe advent of embalming in the normal course of preparation of corpses for burial led directly to the transition of death care from a job predominately performed by women at home to an industry. During the Civil War, hundreds of soldiers died away from home and the process of embalming aided in preserving the bodies until they could be transported for burial. The process gained popularity after the funeral procession of Abraham Lincoln's embalmed corpse. Early techniques in embalming were primitive: an article in 1898, written in the \"Journal of Medicine and Science\" criticized and brought to attention the manner in which the arsenic used to preserve corpses had leeched into the soil and the groundwater near cemeteries. The first embalming school, Cincinnati School of Embalming, was created in 1882. As a means of monitoring and establishing the protocol for handling corpses, the first mortuary schools were established in 1898, along with the National Funeral Directors Association, which is still the leading industry association today.\n\nPrior to the mid-19th century, the dead were prepared, dressed, and displayed by their own family. The body was displayed in a homemade or purchased casket in the family's home. Wealthier families had “proper” rooms that held their finest possessions during viewings, and some family homes had a separate door known as a \"coffin door\" or “death door” to remove the body as it was custom for the body not to cross a doorway where the living crossed.\n\nEmbalming emerged during the Civil War since many soldiers were dying on the battlefield and their families wanted their bodies sent back home for burial. Dr. Auguste Renouard, a pioneer in the field of embalming, published “\"The Undertakers’ Manual\"” in 1878. The first embalming school, the Cincinnati School of Embalming, was founded in 1882 by Joseph Henry Clarke, and in 1883, Dr. Renouard opened the Rochester School of Embalming. The push for embalming occurred simultaneously with the move away from families caring for the dead and for undertakers to organize themselves as “professionals.” The first professional trade association was established in Philadelphia in 1964.\n\nThe first national convention for funeral directors was held in Rochester, New York in 1882 after Alan Durfee, a Michigan funeral director planned a successful statewide convention. The first constitution of the National Funeral Directors Association was drafted in 1882.\n\nThe industry underwent changes as the public responded to Jessica Mitford's \"The American Way of Death\" in 1963. The book was released at a time when consumer consciousness and empowerment altered Americans' buying and spending habits. Due to the response to Mitford's book, the Federal Trade Commission began its own investigation of the death care industry in the 1970s. By 1984, the FTC issued the Federal Trade Rule which included regulations such as requiring funeral directors to provide detailed, itemized price lists to all clients, informing clients that embalming is not required by law, and allowing clients to choose non-traditional alternatives.\n\nMillennials have been raised in and grown up in a time of extreme technology growth. As such, the marketing strategies required to reach them will need to change. Several moves the industry may take include the use of technology, using social media, and offering non-traditional services or venues. Additionally, this generation is not only expected to impact the industry based on their spending but also through their labor. By 2030, millennials will constitute 75% of the workforce for the death care industry.\n\n\n\n\nA number of factors make this business unique from the customer's point of view, according to the Federal Trade Commission. Funerals are among the most expensive purchases many consumers will ever make; most often, a consumer goes through the decision making for this process once, so that there is little experience, and often few sources of information are used; and those making funeral decisions may be under time pressure and significant emotional duress. Funeral homes are regulated under the Funeral Rule.\n\nBeginning in 1972, the FTC began investigating the funeral industry. In August 1975, the FTC released a proposal that suggested the following regulations: prices must be itemized, permission of the next of kin must be obtained before embalming, prices must be quoted over the telephone if requested, and the most inexpensive casket must be displayed with the others. Additionally, the FTC Funeral Rule outlawed false claims and efforts by undertakers to blackball funeral homes that provided cheaper services.\n\nIn the United States, there are more than 19,322 funeral homes, approximately 115,000 cemeteries, 1,155 crematories, and an estimated 300 casket sellers. The total revenue produced from the funeral industry in the U.S. alone was $14.2 billion in 2016. Enough embalming fluid is buried every year to fill eight Olympic-size pools; more steel (in caskets alone) than was used to build the Golden Gate Bridge; and enough reinforced concrete to construct a two-lane highway from New York to Detroit.\n\nIn the 1960s, a push for large companies acquiring smaller funeral homes and cemeteries occurred. Although there has been a consistent push for consolidation, the majority of the industry still consists of small, family-owned businesses. Experts and analysts of the industry have estimated that the top six funeral operators control 25 to 30% of all funeral services in North America, with the top four owning between 15 and 20% of all funeral homes.\n\nThe industry is experiencing a recent trend toward cremation as opposed to the traditional funeral and burial services due to lower costs and increased value. By the year 2020, the rate of cremation is expected to be 56.2% versus 37.8% for burial. Regardless of choice of funerary option, the overall industry is experiencing growth due to the aging baby-boomer generation.\n\nBetween the years of 1990 and 2018, the overall average inflation rate was 2.32% per year while the average inflation rate for funeral expenses was 3.71% per year. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, this means that the average cost of a funeral in 2018 is 177.43% more expensive than a funeral in 1990.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34587738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34587738", "title": "Death of Valeriu Boboc", "text": "Death of Valeriu Boboc\n\nValeriu Victor Boboc (May 5, 1985 - April 8, 2009) was a protester who died in police custody amid the post-election protests in Chişinău, Moldova. The initial official cause was smoke poisoning from the riot, but his family insisted that he was beaten to death by the police, his body being full of contusions. According to 2009 Human Rights Report of the United States Department of State, a British forensics expert examined Boboc's body after it was exhumed on June 15, 2009 and concluded that Boboc was killed by severe blows to his head. Only after a new ruling coalition came to power, an investigation was opened into the case and a policeman was arrested on charges of Boboc's murder.\n\nValeriu Boboc was posthumously decorated, by a presidential decree, with Moldova's highest state decoration – the Order of the Republic. \"April 7 events opened the way of Moldova to Europe and Boboc is no longer just a name, but a symbol of struggle for democratic values and freedom of expression.\" In 2010, the \"Valeriu Boboc\" Prize was established by the Senate of Romania for \"defending the fundamental human rights and democratic values\", but has never been awarded.\n\nHe was born on May 5, 1985, in Bubuieci (a Chişinău suburban community), to Victor Boboc, a history teacher and Ala Boboc, a Romanian language teacher. But the poverty has radically changed the situation in his family, his father working as taxi driver and his mother, Ala Boboc, became unemployed. Valeriu Boboc graduated from \"Miguel de Cervantes\" High School Chişinău and attended International Relations Institute of Moldova for one year. He left university because he didn't have three thousand lei to pay the study contract. Looking to find a better paid work, he tried to leave for Russia, but failed. He worked at a car wash, a car service and then sold belts at market. In the same place was selling clothes Natalia, whom he married in 2007. Valeriu Boboc lived in an apartment in Bubuieci, with his wife, his child Dragoş (born July 30, 2007), his brother Marcel and parents. Some claim he was known at local city police stations as a passive addict and a hooligan.\n\nAfter the results of the April 2009 Moldovan parliamentary election were announced, he was a peaceful participant at the protest. Boboc arrived in the Square after 5.00 p.m., when the presidential and parliament buildings were being ravaged. Following his arrest, Valeriu Boboc died in a Chişinău hospital on 8 April 2009.\n\nBoboc was pronounced dead in the early hours of April 8 at a Chisinau hospital. The official cause of death was given as inhalation of poisonous gas. His case was reopened after the current ruling coalition won elections in July. The police declared he died of smoke inhalation from the riot, but his family claims that he was beaten to death by the police, his body being full of contusions.\n\nValeriu Boboc was killed intentionally, said Valeriu Pleşca, the lawyer of the family of Boboc. According to a witness who witnessed the death of Valeriu Boboc, \"On the night of April 8, Valeriu Boboc and other men were peacefully sitting near the Triumph Arch in Chisinau's downtown, watching the events on the Great National Assembly Square. Suddenly we were surrounded by 50 armed policemen. The police ordered us to lay on the ground and started to beat us with clubs, legs and weapons,\" the lawyer read out from the witness's testimonies. The lawyer of the family of BobocValeriu Pleşca was called to lay testimonies on June 1, 2009. Damian Hancu, the man who witnessed the death of Valeriu Boboc, declared he could identify the policemen who beat him and Boboc.\n\n\"It was around 2 AM. We`ve heard an information on the radio that someone had found a person with a bullet wound in the Cathedral Square. That was the initial version regarding Valeriu Boboc` s death\", declared former vice-minister of Internal Affairs, Ghenadie Coşovan. He was surprised about the first declarations made by former minister of Health Larisa Catrinici, that Valeriu Boboc has died due to intoxication, said Ghenadie Coşovan.\n\nThe body of Valeriu Boboc was handed to the relatives by the police on April 12 and was buried on the same day. Dorin Chirtoacă, the mayor of Chişinău and vice-president of the Liberal Party, attended Boboc's funerals. The opposition parties subsequently used his death as an important subject during the July 2009 electoral campaign.\n\nThe police declared he was found dead in the Great National Assembly Square. According to the official investigation, he died of inhaling a toxic gas, his death certificate stating as cause \"poisoning with an unknown substance\". The Boboc family and the lawyers disputed this, claiming instead that the young man was beaten to death while in custody. Moldova's Attorney General however noted that the bruises and bleeding traces on Boboc's body were not a cause of his death. The body of Valeriu Boboc was exhumed at the cemetery of Bubuieci on June 15, 2009 for further investigations.\n\nDuring a protest gathering around 3,000 in the city's central square on April 12, 2009, Dorin Chirtoacă called for a moment of silence in memory of Valeriu Boboc.\n\nOn April 12, the spokeswoman of the Interior Ministry, Ala Meleca, has denied media reports blaming the police for the death of Boboc. Ministry of Internal Affairs (Moldova) released a statement on April 12, 2009 saying an autopsy showed that Mr. Boboc had a broken rib, but that his death had not been caused by the injury. \"Doctors think that the young man was poisoned by unknown substances,\" the statement said. \"Prosecutors are ready for an international probe in order to exclude other interpretations of this fact.\"\n\n\"In connection with the multiple rumors related to the death of the citizen Valeriu Boboc, the Press Service of the Prosecutor Office is in right to inform the following. On April 8, at 1.15 am, V. Boboc died on his way to the Emergency Hospital. According to the results of the autopsy, the body injuries and namely a broken rib have no causative connection with the cause of death. According to the doctors, he was subject to intoxication with an unknown substance. In order to exclude any doubts related to the cause of death, the prosecutors are ready to call an international expertise.\"\n\nA silent protest was held in Dublin city centre on April 13, 2009, in memory of Valeriu Boboc.\n\nAn open letter from the mayor of Chişinău, Dorin Chirtoacă, circulated on 14 April showed disturbing photos of Valeriu Boboc.\n\nOn April 17, 2009, Amnesty International wrote: \"Valeriu Boboc reportedly died during the demonstrations on 7 April. There are conflicting reports as to the cause of his death. The General Prosecutor's Office has reported that his death was due to poisoning with unknown substances, while his family allege that he died as a result of injuries inflicted by the police.\"\n\nBetween April 17 to June 8, 2009, lawyers Veaceslav Ţurcan and Valeriu Pleşca of the family of the victim submitted many requests for the exhumation of Boboc, but they received 12 letters of denial. Later, after attacking the Prosecution in court, they got right to the exhumation and the expertise of an specialist from the UK.\n\nOne day after a member of the Institute for Human Rights, an NGO that assisted victims of torture, had called a London-based pathologist seeking assistance in investigating the death of Valeriu Boboc, the prosecutor's office called Boboc's father and promised to bring in the same pathologist to investigate the case. That is an evidence that his phone was tapped.\n\nThe body of Valeriu Boboc was exhumed at the cemetery of Bubueci on 15 June 2009. The exhumation lasted nearly 2 hours, and was held in the presence of the Boboc family's two lawyers, the prosecutor conducting the Boboc case, and an expert from Great Britain. The coffin was delivered to a Chisinau morgue, where the body was subjected to a thorough forensic examination to establish the true reason of the young man's death. The British expert Derrick John Pounde (born February 25, 1949) played a key role in the work.\n\nOn June 22, 2009, \"Amnesty International welcomes the fact that the Moldovan authorities have invited an international forensic expert to take part in the autopsy of Valeriu Boboc, who died during the demonstrations on 7 April under disputed circumstances, but calls on the authorities to ensure that all cases of alleged police ill-treatment are promptly, independently, impartially and thoroughly investigated and that anyone reasonably identified as responsible is brought to justice, in accordance with Moldova's obligations under international human rights law.\"\n\nEven if Professor John Pounder Derrik presented on June 29, 2009 to the Prosecutor Ion Matiuşenco his report, the access of the lawyers to it was delayed.\n\nOn July 9, 2009, the Prosecutor General Valeriu Gurbulea said that on the night of April 8, Boboc was taken from the Great National Assembly Square, was taken to the Emergency Hospital in a police car and the doctors established that he was dead. \"Legal action was immediately taken over this case,\" Gurbulea said\n\nOn July 24, 2009, the Prosecutor General Valeriu Gurbulea said no policeman who maltreated protesters had been identified yet. Neither is it known who killed Boboc. One of the reasons is that policemen were wearing masks.\n\nTwo days after July 2009 election, Ion Matiuşenco, the prosecutor investigating Boboc's case, resigned on July 31 and was replaced by another prosecutor. But at year's end there were no further developments in the case.\n\nWhen the ruling coalition Alliance for European Integration came to power, it promised to tell the whole truth about the April 2009 unrest.\n\nOn October 8, 2009 hundreds of people came to the Stephen the Great Monument in Chişinău to mark 6 months from the bloody events. While was attending the ceremony, the prime minister Vlad Filat, expressed condolences to Victor Boboc, the father of Valeriu Boboc. Filat also said that the Ministry of the Interior has already started a domestic investigation into the police's actions on April 7, 2009 and especially during subsequent days and weeks.\n\nAfter December 2009, Dragoş Boboc, Valeriu Boboc's son, will monthly receive 1000 lei from Mihai Ghimpu's salary. This action will continue as long as his interim mandate of acting President of Moldova is valid.\n\nOn October 2, 2009, the Prosecutor General Valeriu Gurbulea resigned. \"Foreign and national experts determined the death was as a result of injuries caused to Valeriu Boboc and not caused by an unknown, poisoning gas, as was said immediately after the tragedy,\" said the new Prosecutor General Valeriu Zubco in January 2010.\n\nAccording to 2009 Human Rights Report of the United States Department of State, released on March 11, 2010:\n\nOn March 22, 2010, former President Vladimir Voronin said during a televised interview with Lorena Bogza on ProTV that Valeriu Boboc was beaten and then thrown out of a Parliament window. \"We can say without exaggeration that Valeriu Boboc's death is on the consciousness of Vladimir Filat and his comrades\" wrote on April 2, 2010 Iurie Roşca, a deputy president of Parliament during the riots.\n\nMore information appeared one year after the April events, on Valeriu Boboc's death. Dorin Chirtoacă, the mayor of Chisinau, declared on March 23, 2010 that he has certain information on the abuses of April 7 from one source inside the Minister of Interior Affairs. Almost 60 policemen, dressed as civilians, received an order from the present police commissar, Serghei Cociorva, to arrest those who were between the Puskin street and the Parliament\", said Chirtoaca.\n\nOn April 5, 2010 acting President Mihai Ghimpu and Chisinau Mayor Dorin Chirtoacă showed journalists a videotape of 2009 protests. In one scene on the videotape, several men are shown kicking what appears to be an unconscious man lying on the pavement in Chisinau's main square. Ghimpu and Chirtoaca said the assailants were policemen in plain clothes and the man they were attacking was Boboc.\n\nOn April 6, 2010, the president of police officers union \"Demnitate\", Mihai Laşcu, stated Valeriu Boboc was criminally investigated for drugs` storage and robbery. He said that he would not accept that a citizen who is criminally investigated for drugs` storage and robbery to receive the medal \"Honor Order\".\n\nA year after Boboc's death, General Prosecutor's office announced on April 6, 2010 that they arrested the supposed murderer, a collaborator of the General Police Commissariat. The Moldovan prosecutor's office announced on April 7, 2010 that Ion Perju has been charged with killing 27-year-old Valeriu Boboc on April 7, 2009. Moldovan Interior Minister Victor Catan confirmed the arrest and he said more arrests will follow, but did not elaborate. On June 18, 2010, the warrant for the home arrest of suspended police officer Ion Perju was extended by the Buiucani District Court for another 90 days.\n\nOn the death of the citizen Valeriu Boboc, criminal proceedings were initiated under Article 151 paragraph (4) and Article 328 paragraph (3) point d) of the Criminal Code.\n\nThe initiative regarding founding the Prize \"Valeriu Boboc\" for the liberty of press and defending of democratic values was launched on April 19, 2010 by the Romanian senator Mihaela Popa. She said in front of the Senate that \"April 7 events opened the way of Moldova to Europe and Boboc is no longer just a name, but a symbol of struggle for democratic values and freedom of expression.\" On April 23, the newspaper of a former ally of Communists Iurie Roşca, Flux, had a very hostile reaction to the initiative. The memorandum regarding founding the Prize \"Valeriu Boboc\" for the liberty of press and defending of democratic values was adopted on April 30, 2010 by the permanent bureau of the Romanian Senate.\n\nA moment of silence was held for Boboc on May 5, 2010 (his birthday) in the Romanian Senate.\n\nOn June 9, 2010, the Buiucani district court released former deputy police commissioner Iacob Gumeniţă from home arrest and allowing him to be 'investigated at liberty' with respect to his role in the events of April 7 / 8 2009.\n\nAs of November 2010, the case is still ongoing.\n\nIn October 2011, the mayor Dorin Chirtoacă required to be prepared a memorial plaque in memory of Valeriu Boboc, mounted in where the young man was killed.\n\nFormer Interior Minister Gheorghe Papuc and former police commissioner general, Vladimir Botnari - accused by prosecutors of misconduct in office during the events of April 2009 that killed young Boboc - were acquitted on December 29, 2011.\n\nOn April 7, 2010, Boboc was posthumously awarded the country's highest award, the Order of the Republic (Moldova).\n\nOn November 3, 2009, \"Liberty prize\" for year 2009 was posthumously offered to Valeriu Boboc. \"Liberty prize\" (Premiul Libertăţii) is offered annually by the newspaper Jurnal de Chişinău since 2009.\n\nDorin Chirtoacă, the mayor of Chişinău and vice-president of the Liberal Party, attended Boboc's funerals. The opposition parties subsequently used his death as an important subject during the July 2009 electoral campaign.\n\nOn October 8, 2009 hundreds of people came to the Stephen the Great Monument in Chişinău to mark 6 months from the bloody events. While was attending the ceremony, the prime minister Vlad Filat, expressed condolences to Victor Boboc, the father of Valeriu Boboc. Filat also said that the Ministry of the Interior has already started a domestic investigation into the police's actions on April 7, 2009 and especially during subsequent days and weeks.\n\nAfter December 2009, Dragoş Boboc, Valeriu Boboc's son, will monthly receive 1000 lei from Mihai Ghimpu's salary. This action will continue as long as his interim mandate of acting President of Moldova is valid.\n\nA year after Boboc's death, General prosecution announced on April 6, 2010 that they had arrested the supposed murderer, a collaborator of the General Police Commissariat.\n\nThe memorandum regarding founding the Prize \"Valeriu Boboc\" for the liberty of press and defending of democratic values was adopted on April 30, 2010 by the permanent bureau of the Romanian Senate. The initiative was launched on April 19, 2010 by the Romanian senator Mihaela Popa. The prize \"Valeriu Boboc\" will be given each year, during a symposium, organized by the Romanian Senate, in April, on the topic \"Defending the fundamental human rights and democratic values\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58900190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58900190", "title": "Edmond de Belamy", "text": "Edmond de Belamy\n\nEdmond de Belamy is a generative adversarial network portrait painting constructed in 2018 by Paris-based arts-collective \"Obvious.\" Printed on canvas, the work belongs to a series of generative images called La Famille de Belamy. It achieved widespread notoriety after Christie's announced its intention to auction the piece as the first artwork created using Artificial Intelligence to be featured in a Christie's auction. It surpassed pre-auction esimates which valued it at $7,000 to $10,000, instead selling for $432,500.\n\nThe piece is a portrait of a somewhat-blurry man. It is a print on canvas measuring 27 ½ x 27 ½ in (700 x 700 mm.) set within a gilded wood frame. The image was created by an algorithm that referenced 15,000 portraits from various periods. \n\nIt is signed at the bottom right with \"min G max D x [log (D(x))] + z [log(1 -- D (G(z)))]\", which is part of the algorithm code that produced it.\n\nThe organization that produced it is called Obvious. It is a collective comprising three people, Pierre Fautrel, Hugo Caselles-Dupré and Gauthier Vernier, who are based in Paris, France.\n\nThe piece has been criticized because it was created using a generative adversarial network (GAN) software package based on prior research by others, including Ian Goodfellow, and implemented by a developer who was not affiliated with Obvious, leading to allegations that Obvious contributed minimally to the final work product. Posts on the project's issue tracker show Obvious members requesting that the original developer provide support and custom features. \n\n"}
{"id": "304820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304820", "title": "Epistemological idealism", "text": "Epistemological idealism\n\nEpistemological idealism is a subjectivist position in epistemology that holds that what one knows about an object exists only in one's mind. It is opposed to epistemological realism.\n\nEpistemological idealism suggests that everything we \"experience\" and know is of a mental nature—\"sense data\" in philosophical jargon. Although it is sometimes employed to argue in favor of metaphysical idealism, in principle epistemological idealism makes no claim about whether sense data are grounded in reality. As such, it is a container for both indirect realism and idealism. This is the version of epistemological idealism which interested Ludwig Boltzmann; it had roots in the positivism of Ernst Mach and Gustav Kirchhoff plus a number of aspects of the Kantianism or neo-Kantianism of Hermann von Helmholtz and Heinrich Hertz.\n\nA contemporary representative of epistemological idealism is Brand Blanshard.\n"}
{"id": "54461515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54461515", "title": "Extinction (2018 film)", "text": "Extinction (2018 film)\n\nExtinction is a 2018 American science fiction thriller film directed by Ben Young and written by Spenser Cohen, Eric Heisserer and Brad Kane. The film is about a father who has a recurring dream about the loss of his family while witnessing a force bent on destruction. The film stars Lizzy Caplan, Michael Peña, Mike Colter, Lilly Aspell, Emma Booth, Israel Broussard, and Lex Shrapnel. It was released on Netflix on July 27, 2018.\n\nPeter, an engineer, has recurring nightmares in which he and everyone he knows suffer through violent, alien invasion-like confrontations with an unknown enemy. He reluctantly visits a clinic to receive psychiatric help, only to find a patient there who reveals that he is having the same visions, prompting Peter to believe his visions are of an upcoming invasion. \n\nThat night, invading spaceships open fire on the city, causing significant damage. Peter and his wife Alice barricade their apartment amid the sounds of slaughter from ground troops. A soldier dressed in insectoid-looking armor breaks through anyway and finds Lucy, one of their two daughters, hiding underneath a table. The soldier pauses to examine her long enough to allow Peter and Alice to attack. Peter and his family then escape with the soldier's rifle. \n\nBased on his visions, Peter and his family agree that the factory he works at is a safe spot. He is able to bypass the rifle's biometric authentication and kill soldiers guarding the apartment building's exit. They make their way to a tunnel entrance to safely travel to the factory, but not before Alice is injured from a bomb blast. As they regroup, the soldier from their apartment appears, having tracked them with a homing signal on the rifle they took. To Peter's shock, the soldier removes his helmet and appears human. Peter forces the soldier to carry Alice to the factory. There, his boss, David, explains that the invasion has been expected for many years. A medic examines Alice but informs Peter that he cannot save her. As David's men drag the invading soldier off to execute him, he yells to Peter that he can save Alice. Peter agrees to stay with the soldier to save Alice; David will evacuate their children to a subway station where a transport train awaits to take them all to an offsite base.\n\nThe soldier surprises Peter by revealing that Alice is an android. To save Alice, she needs an alternate source of power: Peter himself. At the soldier's guidance, Peter cuts open his own chest with a pocket knife, confirming that he is also an android. The soldier connects a cable between the two androids and Peter passes out, experiencing in detail what he had thought were visions of the future but are actually memories of a past war. Fearing that android workers (\"synths\") might rise up against humans, protesters attack unarmed synths. The synths fight back and eventually drive all humans off the whole planet. In order to deal with the guilt of what they have done and prevent themselves from living in fear of a reprisal from humans, the synths have wiped their memories out and lived normal lives.\n\nPeter wakes up and the soldier, Miles, explains that humans have been living on Mars for 50 years. He had expected the synths to be monsters, not families with children. Peter and Alice part amicably with Miles to find their daughters as humans breach the roof of the factory. As they all depart on the train, David explains that he and a handful of other synths kept their memories to stay prepared for the inevitable return of the humans. Peter suggests that some day there could be peace between humans and synths.\n\n\nIn December 2013, it was revealed that the screenplay for \"Extinction\", written by Spenser Cohen, had been included in the 2013 Black List of the year’s best unproduced scripts in Hollywood, as voted on by more than 250 studio execs. In January 2014, Joe Johnston signed on to direct the film, and in September 2016, it was revealed that James McAvoy was \"in talks\" to star. \n\nIn October 2016, Ben Young signed on to direct the film, with Johnston having left the project a while back. In January 2017, it was announced that Michael Peña would star in the role McAvoy had been courted for. In February 2017, Universal Pictures won worldwide distribution rights to the film, with principal production set to begin in April 2017. In March 2017, Lizzy Caplan and Israel Broussard joined the cast, while Mike Colter and Lex Shrapnel joined in April, and Emma Booth in May.\n\n\"Extinction\" was released on July 27, 2018, on Netflix. The film had originally been scheduled for a theatrical release on January 26, 2018, by Universal Pictures, but was pulled from the release schedule. Later in February 2018, it was reported that Netflix had acquired the film from Universal.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 40% based on 20 reviews, and an average rating of 4/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"\"Extinction\" has a few intriguing ideas, but they -- and some game performances from its talented stars -- are lost in the movie's muddled plot and frustrating pacing.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 37 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\". \n\nJake Nevins of \"The Guardian\" gave it 2/5 stars and called the film \"a competent, if formulaic film\", writing that, by virtue of not being viewed theatrically, the film's flaws are magnified and its strengths were weakened. In his 1.5/4 star review for \"RogerEbert.com\", Nick Allen wrote \"There's a tightness that I respect with \"Extinction.\" It's not so much a thrill-ride but a movie monorail, with one revelation at the end meant to reconsider the entire journey. That speaks to its efficiency as the latest in mindless, if not attention-less Netflix movies. \"Extinction\" doesn't seek to be much, but it's just not all that charming, either.\"\n"}
{"id": "66512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66512", "title": "Fern", "text": "Fern\n\nA fern is a member of a group of vascular plants (plants with xylem and phloem) that reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers. They differ from mosses by being vascular, i.e., having specialized tissues that conduct water and nutrients, in having branched stems and in having life cycles in which the sporophyte is the dominant phase. Like other vascular plants, ferns have complex leaves called megaphylls, that are more complex than the microphylls of clubmosses. Most ferns are leptosporangiate ferns, sometimes referred to as true ferns. They produce coiled fiddleheads that uncoil and expand into fronds. The group includes about 10,560 known extant species.\n\nFerns are defined here in the broad sense, being all of the Polypodiopsida, comprising both the leptosporangiate (Polypodiidae) and eusporangiate ferns, the latter itself comprising ferns other than those denominated true ferns, including horsetails or scouring rushes, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.\n\nFerns first appear in the fossil record about 360 million years ago in the late Devonian period, but many of the current families and species did not appear until roughly 145 million years ago in the early Cretaceous, after flowering plants came to dominate many environments. The fern \"Osmunda claytoniana\" is a paramount example of evolutionary stasis; paleontological evidence indicates it has remained unchanged, even at the level of fossilized nuclei and chromosomes, for at least 180 million years.\n\nFerns are not of major economic importance, but some are used for food, medicine, as biofertilizer, as ornamental plants and for remediating contaminated soil. They have been the subject of research for their ability to remove some chemical pollutants from the atmosphere. Some fern species are significant weeds. They also play certain roles in mythology and art.\n\nLike the sporophytes of seed plants, those of ferns consist of stems, leaves and roots.\n\nStems: Fern stems are often referred to as rhizomes, even though they grow underground only in some of the species. Epiphytic species and many of the terrestrial ones have above-ground creeping stolons (e.g., Polypodiaceae), and many groups have above-ground erect semi-woody trunks (e.g., Cyatheaceae). These can reach up to tall in a few species (e.g., \"Cyathea brownii\" on Norfolk Island and \"Cyathea medullaris\" in New Zealand).\n\nLeaf: The green, photosynthetic part of the plant is technically a and in ferns, it is often referred to as a \"frond\". New leaves typically expand by the unrolling of a tight spiral called a crozier or fiddlehead fern. This uncurling of the leaf is termed circinate vernation. Leaves are divided into two types a trophophyll and a sporophyll. A trophophyll frond is a vegetative leaf analogous to the typical green leaves of seed plants that does not produce spores, instead only producing sugars by photosynthesis. A sporophyll frond is a fertile leaf that produces spores borne in sporangia that are usually clustered to form sori. In most ferns, fertile leaves are morphologically very similar to the sterile ones, and they photosynthesize in the same way. In some groups, the fertile leaves are much narrower than the sterile leaves, and may even have no green tissue at all (e.g., Blechnaceae, Lomariopsidaceae). The anatomy of fern leaves can either be simple or highly divided. In tree ferns, the main stalk that connects the leaf to the stem (known as the stipe), often has multiple leaflets. The leafy structures that grow from the stipe are known as pinnae and are often again divided into smaller pinnules.\n\nRoots: The underground non-photosynthetic structures that take up water and nutrients from soil. They are always fibrous and structurally are very similar to the roots of seed plants.\n\nLike all other vascular plants, the diploid sporophyte is the dominant phase or generation in the life cycle. The gametophytes of ferns, however, are very different from those of seed plants. They are free-living and resemble liverworts, whereas those of seed plants develop within the spore wall and are dependent on the parent sporophyte for their nutrition. A fern gametophyte typically consists of:\n\nFerns first appear in the fossil record in the early Carboniferous period. By the Triassic, the first evidence of ferns related to several modern families appeared. The great fern radiation occurred in the late Cretaceous, when many modern families of ferns first appeared.\n\nFerns were traditionally classified in the class Filices, and later in a Division of the Plant Kingdom named Pteridophyta or Filicophyta. Pteridophyta is no longer recognised as a valid taxon because it is paraphyletic. The ferns are also referred to as Polypodiophyta or, when treated as a subdivision of Tracheophyta (vascular plants), Polypodiopsida, although this name sometimes only refers to leptosporangiate ferns. Traditionally, all of the spore producing vascular plants were informally denominated the pteridophytes, rendering the term synonymous with ferns and fern allies. This can be confusing because members of the division Pteridophyta were also denominated pteridophytes (\"sensu stricto\").\n\nTraditionally, three discrete groups have been denominated ferns: two groups of eusporangiate ferns, the families Ophioglossaceae (adder's tongues, moonworts, and grape ferns) and Marattiaceae; and the leptosporangiate ferns. The Marattiaceae are a primitive group of tropical ferns with large, fleshy rhizomes and are now thought to be a sibling taxon to the leptosporangiate ferns. Several other groups of species were considered fern allies: the clubmosses, spikemosses, and quillworts in Lycopodiophyta; the whisk ferns of Psilotaceae; and the horsetails of Equisetaceae. Since this grouping is polyphyletic, the term fern allies should be abandoned, except in a historical context. More recent genetic studies demonstrated that the Lycopodiophyta are more distantly related to other vascular plants, having radiated evolutionarily at the base of the vascular plant clade, while both the whisk ferns and horsetails are as much true ferns as the ophioglossoid ferns and Marattiaceae. In fact, the whisk ferns and ophioglossoid ferns are demonstrably a clade, and the horsetails and Marattiaceae are arguably another clade.\n\nSmith et al. (2006) carried out the first higher-level pteridophyte classification published in the molecular phylogenetic era, and considered the ferns as monilophytes, as follows:\n\nMolecular data, which remain poorly constrained for many parts of the plants' phylogeny, have been supplemented by morphological observations supporting the inclusion of Equisetaceae in the ferns, notably relating to the construction of their sperm and peculiarities of their roots. However, there remained differences of opinion about the placement of the genus \"Equisetum\" (see Equisetopsida for further discussion). One possible solution was to denominate only the leptosporangiate ferns as true ferns while denominating the other three groups as fern allies. In practice, numerous classification schemes have been proposed for ferns and fern allies, and there has been little consensus among them.\n\nThe leptosporangiate ferns are sometimes called true ferns. This group includes most plants familiarly known as ferns. Modern research supports older ideas based on morphology that the Osmundaceae diverged early in the evolutionary history of the leptosporangiate ferns; in certain ways this family is intermediate between the eusporangiate ferns and the leptosporangiate ferns. Rai and Graham (2010) broadly supported the primary groups, but queried their relationships, concluding that \"at present perhaps the best that can be said about all relationships among the major lineages of monilophytes in current studies is that we do not understand them very well\". Grewe et al. (2013) confirmed the inclusion of horsetails within ferns \"sensu lato\", but also suggested that uncertainties remained in their precise placement. Other classifications have raised Ophioglossales to the rank of a fifth class, separating the whisk ferns and ophioglossoid ferns.\n\nOne problem with the classification of ferns is that of cryptic species. A cryptic species is a species that is morphologically similar to another species, but differs genetically in ways that prevent fertile interbreeding. A good example of this is the currently designated species \"Asplenium trichomanes\" (maidenhair spleenwort). This is actually a species complex that includes distinct diploid and tetraploid races. There are minor but unclear morphological differences between the two groups, which prefer distinctly differing habitats. In many cases such as this, the species complexes have been separated into separate species, thus raising the total number of species of ferns. Possibly many more cryptic species are yet to be discovered and designated.\n\nThe ferns are related to other higher order taxa, as shown in the following cladogram:\n\nSmith's 2006 classification treated the ferns as four classes:\n\nIn addition they defined 11 orders and 37 families. That system was a consensus of a number of studies, and was further refined. The phylogenetic relationships are shown in the following cladogram (to the level of orders). This division into four major clades was then confirmed using morphology alone.\nSubsequently, Chase and Reveal considered both lycopods and ferns as subclasses of a class Equisetopsida (Embryophyta) encompassing all land plants. This is referred to as Equisetopsida \"sensu lato\" to distinguish it from the narrower use to refer to horsetails alone, Equisetopsida \"sensu stricto\". They placed the lycopods into subclass Lycopodiidae and the ferns, keeping the term monilophytes, into five subclasses, Equisetidae, Ophioglossidae, Psilotidae, Marattiidae and Polypodiidae, by dividing Smith's Psilotopsida into its two orders and elevating them to subclass (Ophioglossidae and Psilotidae). Christenhusz et al. (2011) followed this use of subclasses but recombined Smith's Psilotopsida as Ophioglossidae, giving four subclasses of ferns again.\n\nChristenhusz and Chase (2014) developed a new classification of ferns and lycopods. They used the term Polypodiophyta for the ferns, subdivided like Smith et al. into four groups (shown with equivalents in the Smith system), with 21 families, approximately 212 genera and 10,535 species;\n\nThis was a considerable reduction in the number of families from the 37 in the system of Smith et al., since the approach was more that of lumping rather than splitting. For instance a number of families were reduced to subfamilies. Subsequently, a consensus group was formed, the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group (PPG), analogous to the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group, publishing their first complete classification in November 2016. They recognise ferns as a class, the Polypodiopsida, with four subclasses as described by Christenhusz and Chase, and which are phylogenetically related as in this cladogram:\nIn the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification the Polypodiopsida consist of four subclasses, 11 orders, 48 families, 319 genera, and an estimated 10,578 species. Thus Polypodiopsida in the broad sense (\"sensu lato\") as used by the PPG (Polypodiopsida \"sensu\" PPG) needs to be distinguished from the narrower usage (\"sensu stricto\") of Smith et al. (Polypodiopsida \"sensu\" Smith et al.)\n\nThe stereotypical image of ferns growing in moist shady woodland nooks is far from a complete picture of the habitats where ferns can be found growing. Fern species live in a wide variety of habitats, from remote mountain elevations, to dry desert rock faces, to bodies of water or in open fields. Ferns in general may be thought of as largely being specialists in marginal habitats, often succeeding in places where various environmental factors limit the success of flowering plants. Some ferns are among the world's most serious weed species, including the bracken fern growing in the Scottish highlands, or the mosquito fern (\"Azolla\") growing in tropical lakes, both species forming large aggressively spreading colonies. There are four particular types of habitats that ferns are found in: moist, shady forests; crevices in rock faces, especially when sheltered from the full sun; acid wetlands including bogs and swamps; and tropical trees, where many species are epiphytes (something like a quarter to a third of all fern species).\n\nEspecially the epiphytic ferns have turned out to be hosts of a huge diversity of invertebrates. It is assumed that bird's-nest ferns alone contain up to half the invertebrate biomass within a hectare of rainforest canopy.\n\nMany ferns depend on associations with mycorrhizal fungi. Many ferns grow only within specific pH ranges; for instance, the climbing fern (\"Lygodium palmatum\") of eastern North America will grow only in moist, intensely acid soils, while the bulblet bladder fern (\"Cystopteris bulbifera\"), with an overlapping range, is found only on limestone.\n\nThe spores are rich in lipids, protein and calories, so some vertebrates eat these. The European woodmouse (\"Apodemus sylvaticus\") has been found to eat the spores of \"Culcita macrocarpa\" and the bullfinch (\"Pyrrhula murina\") and the New Zealand lesser short-tailed bat (\"Mystacina tuberculata\") also eat fern spores.\n\nFerns are vascular plants differing from lycophytes by having true leaves (megaphylls), which are often pinnate. They differ from seed plants (gymnosperms and angiosperms) in reproducing by means of spores and they lack flowers and seeds. Like all land plants, they have a life cycle referred to as alternation of generations, characterized by alternating diploid sporophytic and haploid gametophytic phases. The diploid sporophyte has 2\"n\" paired chromosomes, where \"n\" varies from species to species. The haploid gametophyte has \"n\" unpaired chromosomes, i.e. half the number of the sporophyte. The gametophyte of ferns is a free-living organism, whereas the gametophyte of the gymnosperms and angiosperms is dependent on the sporophyte.\n\nThe life cycle of a typical fern proceeds as follows:\n\nFerns are not as important economically as seed plants but have considerable importance in some societies. Some ferns are used for food, including the fiddleheads of \"Pteridium aquilinum\" (bracken), \"Matteuccia struthiopteris\" (ostrich fern), and \"Osmundastrum cinnamomeum\" (cinnamon fern). \"Diplazium esculentum\" is also used by some tropical persons (for example in \"budu pakis\", a traditional dish of Brunei) as food. Tubers from the \"para\", \"Ptisana salicina\" (king fern) are a traditional food in New Zealand and the South Pacific. Fern tubers were used for food 30,000 years ago in Europe. Fern tubers were used by the Guanches to make gofio in the Canary Islands. Ferns are generally not known to be poisonous to humans. Licorice fern rhizomes were chewed by the natives of the Pacific Northwest for their flavor.\n\nFerns of the genus \"Azolla\" are very small, floating plants that do not resemble ferns. Called the mosquito fern, they are used as a biological fertilizer in the rice paddies of southeast Asia, taking advantage of their ability to fix nitrogen from the air into compounds that can then be used by other plants.\n\nMany ferns are grown in horticulture as landscape plants, for cut foliage and as houseplants, especially the Boston fern (\"Nephrolepis exaltata\") and other members of the genus \"Nephrolepis\". The bird's nest fern (\"Asplenium nidus\") is also popular, as are the staghorn ferns (genus \"Platycerium\"). Perennial (also known as hardy) ferns planted in gardens in the northern hemisphere also have a considerable following.\n\nSeveral ferns are noxious weeds or invasive species, including Japanese climbing fern (\"Lygodium japonicum\"), mosquito fern and sensitive fern (\"Onoclea sensibilis\"). Giant water fern (\"Salvinia molesta\") is one of the world's worst aquatic weeds. The important fossil fuel coal consists of the remains of primitive plants, including ferns.\n\nFerns have been studied and found to be useful in the removal of heavy metals, especially arsenic, from the soil. Other ferns with some economic significance include:\n\nThe study of ferns and other pteridophytes is called pteridology. A pteridologist is a specialist in the study of pteridophytes in a broader sense that includes the more distantly related lycophytes.\n\nPteridomania is a term for the Victorian era craze of fern collecting and fern motifs in decorative art including pottery, glass, metals, textiles, wood, printed paper, and sculpture \"appearing on everything from christening presents to gravestones and memorials.\" The fashion for growing ferns indoors led to the development of the Wardian case, a glazed cabinet that would exclude air pollutants and maintain the necessary humidity.\nThe dried form of ferns was also used in other arts, being used as a stencil or directly inked for use in a design. The botanical work, \"The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland\", is a notable example of this type of nature printing. The process, patented by the artist and publisher Henry Bradbury, impressed a specimen on to a soft lead plate. The first publication to demonstrate this was Alois Auer's \"The Discovery of the Nature Printing-Process\".\n\nFern bars were popular in America in the 1970s and 80s.\n\nFerns figure in folklore, for example in legends about mythical flowers or seeds. In Slavic folklore, ferns are believed to bloom once a year, during the Ivan Kupala night. Although alleged to be exceedingly difficult to find, anyone who sees a fern flower is thought to be guaranteed to be happy and rich for the rest of their life. Similarly, Finnish tradition holds that one who finds the seed of a fern in bloom on Midsummer night will, by possession of it, be guided and be able to travel invisibly to the locations where eternally blazing Will o' the wisps called aarnivalkea mark the spot of hidden treasure. These spots are protected by a spell that prevents anyone but the fern-seed holder from ever knowing their locations.\n\nSeveral non-fern plants (and even animals) are called ferns and are sometimes confused with true ferns. These include:\n\nSome flowering plants such as palms and members of the carrot family have pinnate leaves that somewhat resemble fern fronds. However, these plants have fully developed seeds contained in fruits, rather than the microscopic spores of ferns.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21838250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21838250", "title": "Hardy's paradox", "text": "Hardy's paradox\n\nHardy's paradox is a thought experiment in quantum mechanics devised by Lucien Hardy in 1992–3 in which a particle and its antiparticle may interact without annihilating each other.\n\nExperiments using the technique of weak measurement have studied an interaction of polarized photons and these have demonstrated that the phenomenon does occur. However, the consequence of these experiments is only that past events can be inferred after their occurrence as a probabilistic wave collapse. These weak measurements are considered to be an observation themselves, and therefore part of the causation of wave collapse, making the objective results only a probabilistic function rather than a fixed reality. However, a careful analysis of the experiment shows that Hardy's paradox only proves that a local hidden variable theory can not exist, as there can not be a theory that assumes that the system meets the states of reality regardless of the interaction with the measuring apparatus.This confirms that a quantum theory, to be consistent with the experiments, must be non-local (in the sense of Bell) and contextual.\n\nThe basic building block of Hardy’s thought experiment are two Mach–Zehnder interferometers for quantum particles and antiparticles. We will describe the case using electrons and positrons. Each interferometer consists of bent paths and two beam splitters (labeled BS and BS in the accompanying diagram) and is tuned so that when operating individually, particles always exit to the same particle detector (the ones labeled \"c\" in the diagram – \"c\" is for \"constructive interference\" and \"d\" is for \"destructive interference\"). For example, for the right-hand side interferometer, when operating alone, entering electrons (labeled \"e\") become a quantum superposition of electrons taking the path \"v\" and electrons taking path \n\"w\" (in the diagram, the latter part of the \"w\" path is labeled \"u\"), but these constructively interfere and thus always exit in arm c:\n\nSimilarly, positrons (labeled e) are always detected at c.\nIn the actual experiment the interferometers are arranged so that part of their paths overlap as shown in the diagram. If the amplitude for the particle in one arm, say w, were to be obstructed by a second particle in w that collides with it, only the \"v\" amplitude would reach the second beam splitter and would split into arms c and d with equal amplitudes. The detection of a particle in d would thus indicate the presence of the obstructing particle, but \"without\" an annihilation taking place. For this reason, this scheme was named interaction-free measurement.\n\nIf (classically speaking) both the electron and the positron take the \"w\" paths in their respective interferometers, they will annihilate to produce two gamma rays: formula_2. There is a 1 in 4 chance of this happening. We can express the state of the system, before the final beam splitters, as\n\nSince the formula_4 detectors click for formula_5, and the formula_6 detectors for formula_7, this becomes\n\nSince the probabilities are the squares of the absolute values of these amplitudes, this means a 9 in 16 chance of each particle being detected in its respective \"c\" detector, a 1 in 16 chance for one particle being detected in its \"c\" detector and the other in its \"d\" detector, or for both being detected in their \"d\" detectors, and a 4 in 16 (1 in 4) chance that the electron and positron annihilate, so neither is detected. Notice that a detection in both \"d\" detectors is represented by\n\nThis is not orthogonal to the expression above for the state before the final beam splitters. The scalar product between them is 1/4, showing that there is a 1 in 16 chance of this happening, paradoxically.\n\nThe situation can be analyzed in terms of two simultaneous interaction-free measurements: from the point of view of the interferometer on the left, a click at d implies the presence of the obstructing electron in u. Similarly, for the interferometer on the right, a click at d implies the presence of the positron in u. Indeed, every time a click is recorded at d (or d), the other particle is found in u (or u respectively). If we assume the particles are independent (described by local hidden variables), we conclude that they can never emerge simultaneously in d and d. This would imply that they were in u and u, which cannot occur because of the annihilation process.\n\nA paradox then arises because sometimes the particles do emerge simultaneously at d and d (with probability \"p\" = 1/16). Quantum mechanically, the formula_10 term arises, in fact, from the nonmaximally entangled nature of the state just before the final beam splitters.\n\nAn article by Yakir Aharonov and colleagues in 2001 pointed out that the number of electrons or positrons in each branch is theoretically observable and is 0 in the \"w\" branches and 1 in the \"v\" branches. And yet, the number of electron–positron \"pairs\" in any combination is \"also\" observable and is not given by the product of the single-particle values. So we find that the number of \"ww\" pairs (both particles in their \"w\" path) is 0, each \"wv\" pair is 1, and \"the number in the vv combination is −1\"! They proposed a way that this could be observed physically by temporarily trapping the electron and the positron in the \"v\" paths in boxes and noting the effect of their mutual electrostatic attraction. They stated that one would actually find a repulsion between the boxes.\n\nIn 2009 Jeff Lundeen and Aephraim Steinberg published work in which they set up a \"Hardy's paradox\" system using photons. A 405 nm laser goes through a barium borate crystal to produce pairs of 810 nm photons with polarizations orthogonal to each other. These then hit a beam splitter, which sends photons back to the barium borate crystal with 50% probability. The 405 nm pumping beam also bounces from a mirror and comes back to the barium borate. If both the 810 nm photons come back to the crystal, they are annihilated by interaction with the returning pump beam. In any case, the beam of photons that make it through the crystal and the beam of photons that pass through the beam splitter are both separated into \"vertically polarized\" and \"horizontally polarized\" beams, which correspond to the \"electrons\" and the \"positrons\" of Hardy's scheme. The two \"electron\" beams (the photons with one kind of polarization) are united at a beam splitter and go to one or two detectors, and the same for the \"positrons\" (the other photons). Classically, no photons should be detected at what the authors call the \"dark ports\" because if they take both directions from the first beam splitter, they will interfere with themselves, whereas if they take only one path, then one cannot detect them both at the dark ports because of the paradox. By introducing a 20° rotation in polarization and using half-wave plates on certain beams, and then measuring coincidence rates at the detectors, they were able to make weak measurements that allowed them to calculate the \"occupation\" of different arms (paths) and combinations. As predicted by Aharonov and colleagues, they found a negative value for the combination in which both photons take the outer (no-annihilation) route. The results were not exactly as predicted, and they attribute this to imperfect switching (annihilation) and interaction-free measurements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49054606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49054606", "title": "Holism and Evolution", "text": "Holism and Evolution\n\nHolism and Evolution is a 1926 book by South African statesman Jan Smuts, in which he coined the word \"holism\", although Smuts' meaning is different from the modern concept of holism. Smuts defined holism as the \"fundamental factor operative towards the creation of wholes in the universe.\"\n\nThe book was part of a broader trend of interest in holism in European and colonial academia during the early twentieth century. Smuts' philosophy of holism was based in the thoughts behind his earlier book \"Walt Whitman: A Study in the Evolution of Personality\", written during his time in Cambridge. He described a \"process-orientated, hierarchical view of nature\" and has been influential among criticisms of reductionism. Smuts' formulation of holism has also been linked with his political-military activity, especially his aspiration to create a league of nations.\n"}
{"id": "47154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47154", "title": "Ivor Novello", "text": "Ivor Novello\n\nIvor Novello (15 January 1893 – 6 March 1951), born David Ivor Davies, was a Welsh composer and actor who became one of the most popular British entertainers of the first half of the 20th century.\n\nHe was born into a musical family, and his first successes were as a songwriter. His first big hit was \"Keep the Home Fires Burning\" (1914), which was enormously popular during the First World War. His 1917 show, \"Theodore & Co\", was a wartime hit. After the war, Novello contributed numbers to several successful musical comedies and was eventually commissioned to write the scores of complete shows. He wrote his musicals in the style of operetta and often composed his music to the libretti of Christopher Hassall.\n\nIn the 1920s, he turned to acting, first in British films and then on stage, with considerable success in both. He starred in two silent films directed by Alfred Hitchcock, \"\" and \"Downhill\" (both 1927). On stage, he played the title character in the first London production of \"Liliom\" (1926). Novello briefly went to Hollywood, but he soon returned to Britain, where he had more successes, especially on stage, appearing in his own lavish West End productions of musicals. The best known of these were \"Glamorous Night\" (1935) and \"The Dancing Years\" (1939). \n\nFrom the 1930s, he often performed with Zena Dare, writing parts for her in his works. He continued to write for film, but he had his biggest late successes with stage musicals: \"Perchance to Dream\" (1945), \"King's Rhapsody\" (1949) and \"Gay's the Word\" (1951). The Ivor Novello Awards were named after him in 1955.\n\nNovello was born in Cardiff, Wales, to David Davies (c. 1852–1931), a rent collector for the city council, and his wife, Clara Novello Davies, an internationally known singing teacher and choral conductor. As a boy, Novello was a successful singer in the Welsh Eisteddfod. His mother set up as voice teacher in London, where he met leading performers, including members of George Edwardes's Gaiety Theatre company, classical musicians such as Landon Ronald, and singers such as Adelina Patti. Another of his mother's associates was Clara Butt, who taught him to sing \"Abide with Me\" when he was a boy of six.\n\nNovello was educated privately in Cardiff and then in Gloucester, where he studied harmony and counterpoint with Herbert Brewer, the cathedral organist. From there he won a scholarship to Magdalen College School in Oxford, where he was a solo treble in the college choir. He later said that this prolonged youthful exposure to early sacred choral music had turned his tastes, in reaction, to lush romantic music. Although Brewer had told him he would not have a career in music, Novello from his early youth showed a facility for writing songs, and when he was only 15, one of his songs was published. After leaving school, he gave piano lessons in Cardiff, and then moved to London in 1913 with his mother. They took a flat above the Strand Theatre, which became his London home for the rest of his life.\n\nIn London he found a mentor in Sir Edward Marsh, a well-known patron of the arts. Marsh encouraged him to compose and introduced him to people who could help his career. He adopted part of his mother's maiden name, \"Novello\" as his professional surname, although he did not change it legally until 1927.\n\nIn 1914, at the start of the First World War, Novello wrote \"Keep the Home Fires Burning\", a song that expressed the feelings of innumerable families sundered by World War I. Novello composed the music for the song to a lyric by the American Lena Guilbert Ford, and it became a huge popular success, bringing Novello money and fame at the age of 21. In other respects, the war had less impact on Novello than on many young men of his age. He avoided enlistment until June 1916, when he reported to a Royal Naval Air Service (RNAS) training depot as a probationary flight sub-lieutenant. After twice crashing an aeroplane, and with the influence of Marsh, he was moved to the Air Ministry office in central London performing clerical duties for the duration of the war.\n\nNovello continued to write songs while serving in the RNAS. He had his first stage success with \"Theodore & Co\" in 1916, a production by George Grossmith, Jr. and Edward Laurillard with a score composed by Novello and the young Jerome Kern. In the same year, Novello contributed to André Charlot's revue \"See-Saw\". In 1917 he wrote for another Grossmith and Laurillard production, the operette \"Arlette\", for which he contributed additional numbers to an existing French score by Jane Vieu and Guy le Feuvre. In the same year, Marsh introduced him to the actor Bobbie Andrews, who became Novello's life partner. Andrews introduced Novello to the young Noël Coward. Coward, six years Novello's junior, was deeply envious of Novello's effortless glamour. He wrote, \"I just felt suddenly conscious of the long way I had to go before I could break into the magic atmosphere in which he moved and breathed with such nonchalance\".\n\nIn 1918 and after the war, Novello continued to write successfully for musical comedy and revue. The former included \"Who's Hooper?\" (1919), an adaptation of a Pinero play, with a book by Fred Thompson, lyrics by Clifford Grey, and music by Howard Talbot and Novello, and \"The Golden Moth\" by Thompson and P. G. Wodehouse (1921), for which Novello provided the entire score. For Charlot, he contributed numbers to the revues \"Tabs\" (1918), \"A to Z\" (1921) and \"Puppets\" (1924). For the second of these, his songs included one of his few well-known comedy numbers, \"And her mother came too\", with lyrics by Dion Titheradge, written for Jack Buchanan.\n\nAt the same time as his successes as a composer, Novello was making a career as an actor. With \"a classic profile that gained him matinee idol status amongst the film-going public\", he was sought out, on the strength of a publicity photograph, by the Swiss film director Louis Mercanton. Mercanton offered him a silent-film role as the romantic lead in \"The Call of the Blood\" (1920). In the same year, he made another film for Mercanton, \"Miarka\". Novello made his first English film, \"Carnival\", the following year.\nNovello made his stage debut in 1921 in \"Deburau\" by Sacha Guitry with Robert Loraine, Madge Titheradge and Bobbie Andrews, and, among other stage engagements, in the next years he played Bingley in an adaptation of \"Pride and Prejudice\" with Ben Webster as Darcy and Mary Jerrold as Elizabeth, in a cast that included Ellen Terry, May Whitty and Joyce Carey. At about this time, Novello had an affair with the writer Siegfried Sassoon; it was short lived, but in the words of Sassoon's biographer John Stuart Roberts, Novello \"was a consummate flirt who collected lovers as he gathered lilacs\".\n\nIn 1923, Novello made his American movie debut in D. W. Griffith's \"The White Rose\". The same year, he starred in \"The Man Without Desire\", among other British films. He next co-wrote, produced and starred in the successful 1924 play \"The Rat\". The play was made into a film in 1925, which was so successful that two sequels followed in 1926 and 1928. His dramatic roles in the West End included the title character in the first London production of Ferenc Molnár's \"Liliom\" (1926).\n\nOther films in which Novello starred included Alfred Hitchcock's \"\", where he played the sinister title character, and \"Downhill\" (both in 1927). The British film company Gainsborough Pictures offered Novello a lucrative contract, which enabled him to buy a country house in Littlewick Green, near Maidenhead. He renamed the property Redroofs, and he entertained there famously and with little regard for convention. Cecil Beaton, noting the frequent homosexual excesses, coined the phrase, \"the Ivor/Noel naughty set\". Coward had by now caught Novello up professionally, despite a joint disaster when Novello starred in Coward's play \"Sirocco\" in 1927, which was a débâcle, and closed within a month of opening. In 1928 Novello starred in the silent adaptation of Coward's much more successful \"The Vortex\", and made his last silent film, \"A South Sea Bubble\". During the late 1920s, Novello was the most popular male star in British films.\n\nNovello returned to composing for the lyric stage in 1929, writing eight numbers for the revue \"The House that Jack Built\". In the same year, he presented his own play \"Symphony in Two Flats\", which he took to New York the following year. It was followed by a successful Broadway production of his \"The Truth Game\", which brought him to the attention of Hollywood studios. He accepted a contract to write for and appear in MGM films. He found little to do in Hollywood, however, beyond writing the dialogue for \"Tarzan the Ape Man\". Returning to London, he starred in the sound remake of \"The Lodger\" (1932).\n\nAfter beginning the 1930s with a series of non-musical plays, \"I Lived With You\" (1932), \"Fresh Fields\", \"Proscenium\", \"Sunshine Sisters\", \"Flies in the Sun\" (all 1933) and \"Murder in Mayfair\" (1934), Novello returned to composition in 1935 with \"Glamorous Night\", which was the first of a series of enormously popular musicals. \"The Times\" considered that it was for these that Novello would be popularly remembered. Paul Webb, in the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", writes that Novello's show saved the fortunes of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane:\n\nAnother model was Coward's 1929 musical \"Bitter Sweet\", which Novello called \"a \"lovely\", lovely thing ... sheer joy from beginning to end\". That, too, was an old-fashioned musical, \"so full of regret ... for a vanished kindly silly darling age\".\n\nFor all his four 1930s musicals, Novello wrote the book and music, Christopher Hassall wrote the lyrics, and the orchestrations were by Charles Prentice. \"Glamorous Night\" starred Novello and Mary Ellis, with a cast including Zena Dare, Olive Gilbert and Elizabeth Welch, and ran from 2 May 1935 to 18 July 1936, at Drury Lane and then the London Coliseum. \"Careless Rapture\" ran from 11 September 1936 for 296 performances, with Novello, Dorothy Dickson and Zena Dare in the leading roles. \"Crest of the Wave\" starred Novello, Dickson and Gilbert, and ran from 1 September 1937 for 203 performances. The last of Novello's prewar musicals was \"The Dancing Years\", which starred Novello, Ellis and Gilbert, opened at Drury Lane, closed on the outbreak of the Second World War, and reopened at the Adelphi Theatre, running for a combined total of 696 performances, closing on 8 July 1944. This show was the closest Novello came to fulfilling his mother's early ambitions for him to write operas; he played an Austrian composer-conductor at the Wiener Hofoper.\n\nNovello presented only two new shows during the Second World War. \"Arc de Triomphe\" (1943), a musical vehicle for Mary Ellis, was only a modest success, but \"Perchance to Dream\" (1945) was immensely successful, running for 1,022 performances. In between the two shows, Novello had been in serious legal trouble and served four weeks in prison for misuse of petrol coupons, a serious offence under rationing laws in wartime Britain. An admiring fan had stolen the coupons from her employer, but the court found that Novello was also culpable. The prison term, though short, came as a severe shock to Novello, both mentally and physically, and had serious lasting effects. Not everybody was supportive; Coward's sympathy was limited: \"He's been fighting like a steer to keep going as before the war and hasn't done a thing for the general effort\", but when Novello returned to \"The Dancing Years\" after his release, he received \"a rapturous ovation\" on his first entrance.\n\nNovello's last full-scale production in this style, \"King's Rhapsody\" (1949), was, in Webb's words, \"a selfconsciously romantic counter-blast to the modern musical: crown princes, ballrooms, royal yachts, beautiful princesses and a full-scale coronation\". After the rigours of war, this escapist entertainment had strong box-office appeal, and ran for 841 performances. The show starred Novello and the cast included Phyllis Dare, Zena Dare, Olive Gilbert and Bobbie Andrews. It was still running, at the Palace Theatre, when Novello's last show opened. This was \"Gay's the Word\" (1951). Novello had written no role for himself; the show starred the comedy actress Cicely Courtneidge and was a departure from his established pattern, balancing the contrasting styles of European operetta and post-war American musicals. \"The Times\" commented that the show \"cheerfully parodied the very Ruritanian romances to which he owed his most triumphant successes\".\n\nNovello died suddenly from a coronary thrombosis at the age of 58, a few hours after completing a performance in the run of \"King's Rhapsody\". He was cremated at the Golders Green Crematorium, and his ashes are buried beneath a lilac bush and marked with a plaque that reads \"Ivor Novello 6th March 1951 'Till you are home once more'.\" He left an estate worth £160,000 (£ when adjusted for inflation).\n\nOnly a few weeks before Novello's death, Coward had written of him: \"Theatre – good, bad and indifferent – is the love of his life. For him, other human endeavours are mere shadows. ... The reward of his work lies in the indisputable fact that whenever and wherever he appears the vast majority of the British public flock to see him.\" \"Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" writes of Novello that he was \"until the advent of Andrew Lloyd Webber, the 20th-century's most consistently successful composer of British musicals\".\n\nThe Ivor Novello Awards for songwriting, established in 1955 in Novello's memory, are awarded each year by the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA) to British songwriters and composers as well as to an outstanding international music writer. A scholarship in memory of Novello was established at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, and in 1952 a bronze bust of him by Clemence Dane was unveiled at Drury Lane. In St. Paul's, Covent Garden, known as the actors' church, a panel was installed to commemorate Novello, and in 1972, to mark the 21st anniversary of his death, a memorial stone was unveiled in St. Paul's Cathedral.\n\nIn 1993, the centenary of Novello's birth was marked by several celebratory shows around the UK, including one at the Players Theatre in London. In 2005, the Strand Theatre, above which Novello lived for many years, was renamed the Novello Theatre, with a plaque in his honour set at the entrance. On 27 June 2009, a statue of Novello was unveiled outside the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff Bay. Plaques detailing some of his best-known songs are fitted to the pedestal, along with a dedication to Novello. Novello's memory is promoted by The Ivor Novello Appreciation Bureau, which holds annual events around Britain, including an annual pilgrimage to Redroofs each June. Redroofs was sold after Novello's death and is now a theatre training school.\n\nNovello was portrayed in Robert Altman's 2001 film, \"Gosford Park\", by Jeremy Northam, and several of his songs were used for the film's soundtrack, including \"Waltz of My Heart\", \"And Her Mother Came Too\", \"I Can Give You the Starlight\", \"What a Duke Should Be\", \"Why Isn't It You?\" and \"The Land of Might-Have-Been\".\n\nAmong Novello's well-known songs are \"Keep the Home Fires Burning\", \"Fold Your Wings\", \"Shine Through My Dreams\", \"Rose of England\", \"I Can Give You the Starlight\", \"And Her Mother Came Too\", \"My Dearest Dear\", \"The Land of Might-Have-Been\", \"When I Curtsied to the King\", \"We'll Gather Lilacs\", \"Someday My Heart Will Awake\", \"Yesterday\", \"Waltz of My Heart\", \"Why Isn't It You\", \"My Life Belongs to You\", \"Fly Home Little Heart\", \"Take Your Girl\" and \"Primrose\".\n\nIn \"Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", Webb writes that although Novello's oeuvre is generally thought of as \"romantic\" and \"Ruritanian\", his music \"was far more varied than his current reputation suggests\". Webb contends that such romantic hits as \"Someday My Heart Will Awake\" were balanced by \"rousing operetta choruses ... and jazz age numbers\" while Rose of England' is a stately patriotic piece that stands comparison with Elgar or Walton\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17601193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17601193", "title": "Japanese destroyer Akikaze", "text": "Japanese destroyer Akikaze\n\nConstruction of the large-sized \"Minekaze\"-class destroyers was authorized as part of the Imperial Japanese Navy's 8-4 Fleet Program (1917–1920) with the first two ships of the class built under the 1917 fiscal programme, followed by five each under the 1918 and 1919 programmes and two ships under the 1920 fiscal programme. The \"Minekaze\"-class destroyer was designed to complement the medium-sized , with which they shared many common design characteristics. Equipped with powerful engines, these vessels were capable of high speeds and were intended as escorts for the projected s, which were ultimately never built. \"Akikaze\" was built at the Maizuru Naval Arsenal and was the ninth ship of the \"Minekaze\" class. She was laid down on 7 June 1920, and launched on 14 December 1920. Completed on 1 April 1921, \"Akikaze\" was commissioned on 16 September 1921.\n\nOn completion, \"Akikaze\" joined sister ships , , and at the Yokosuka Naval District to form Destroyer Division 4 under Torpedo Squadron 1 (第1水雷戦隊). In 1938–1939, the division was assigned to patrols of the central China coastline in support of Japanese combat operations in the Second Sino-Japanese War.\n\nIn World War II, \"Akikaze\" performed patrol and convoy escort duties. At the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor, \"Akikaze\" (assigned to Destroyer Division 34 of the IJN 11th Air Fleet) was based at Takao, and provided air sea rescue support for the \"Operation M\" (the Japanese invasion of the Philippines), and escort of convoys to Davao and Legazpi.\n\nFrom January to the end of April 1942, \"Akikaze\" was based at Davao, escorting shipping between Davao and Ambon. After a brief return to Maizuru for repairs in May 1942, \"Akikaze\" was based out of Rabaul, escorting transports throughout the Pacific. On 14 March 1943, \"Akikaze\" and two other destroyers attacked a submarine — possibly — near Kairiru Island .\n\nOn 18 March \"Akikaze\" was the scene of a war crime. During construction of a seaplane base at Kairiru Island \"Akikaze\" evacuated the personnel of the Roman Catholic mission headquarters on that island and also several individuals from Wewak. These included Bishop Joseph Loerks, 38 missionaries (31 of whom were German nationals) including 18 nuns, one New Guinea girl, and two Chinese infants (apparently the children of Wewak storekeeper Ning Hee). The vessel then called at Manus where it picked up 20 others, again mostly Germans, including six missionaries from the Liebenzell Evangelical Mission, three other nuns and three other priests, a European infant, a plantation owner named Carl Muster and plantation overseer Peter Mathies, two Chinese, and apparently four Malays. The ostensible intention was to carry them to internment in Rabaul. \"Between Manus and Rabaul each of the adults was strung up by the hands on a gallows in the stern of the vessel, shot dead by rifle or machine-gun fire, and thrown overboard. The two Chinese infants and the European baby were thrown over alive.\" As there were U.S. nationals among the victims, the Australian War Crimes Section in Tokyo, having completed its investigation, on 18 July 1947 handed the matter over to the American authorities, who appear to have taken no further action.\n\nAfter repairs again at Maizuru in April 1943, \"Akikaze\" returned to Rabaul to resume her escort and patrol duties. She was heavily damaged in an air raid on 2 August, with 23 casualties and forced to return to Maizuru for repairs again in September. Returning to Rabaul again in mid-November, she made several \"Tokyo Express\" troop transport runs to New Guinea from October 1943-February 1944. In March, she was reassigned to Truk, where she provided escort for convoys between Truk, Saipan and Palau. On 1 May 1944, \"Akikaze\" was reassigned to Destroyer Division 30 of the Central Pacific Fleet. After escorting a convoy from Japan to Davao and Manila, she was based at Manila. However, Destroyer Division 30 was reassigned to the Combined Fleet on 20 August.\n\nOn 24–25 October, \"Akikaze\" led the escort for the 2nd Supply Force of Admiral Ozawa's Northern Force at the Battle of Leyte Gulf, rescuing survivors from the torpedoed fleet oiler \"Jinei Maru\", and taking them to Mako.\n\nOn 1 November, Destroyer Division 30 — (flagship), , and \"Akikaze\" — departed Mako, escorting aircraft carrier and cruiser toward Brunei. On 3 November, the submarine fired a spread of torpedoes at \"Jun'yō\", but \"Akikaze\" intercepted them, sacrificing herself to save the carrier. \"Akikaze\" sank with all hands, west of Cape Bolinao, Luzon at position .\n\nOn 10 January 1945, \"Akikaze\" was struck from the Navy List.\n\nIn the movie \"Run Silent, Run Deep\", the US submarine \"Nerka\" attacks and sinks a Japanese destroyer called \"Akikaze\" in the Bungo Strait. The \"Akikaze\" was thought to have destroyed four US submarines and was particularly adept in this role while protecting convoys.\n\n"}
{"id": "58180313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58180313", "title": "Jedediah Aaker", "text": "Jedediah Aaker\n\nJedediah Aaker is a musician, performer, theatrical producer, and Portland-area personality. A fixture on cable series \"Portlandia\", he has appeared in more episodes than anyone besides the series' two leads. The PDX-native is also a multiple-award-winning, \"Whisker Wars\"-celebrated competitive bearder who co-founded the Portland Beardsmen.\n\nHe has worn a Christmas sweater on the cover of \"The Portland Mercury\" and appeared as a shirtless model on the front page of \"Willamette Week\"s 2018 <q>Beer</q> issue. He has worked as bartender for a failing club featured on the fourth season of \"Bar Rescue\" and as host of Barfly Bus Tours. \"The Daily Mail\" referred to him as a <q>Portland character</q> and <q>professional party host</q>, and alternative newspaper \"Willamette Week\" dubbed him a <q>beard-about-town</q>. In a 2018 feature article titled <q>Twilight of the Hipsters</q>, the French edition of Rolling Stone introduced Aaker as an <q>actor, concert booker, chauffeur for rock stars, and distributor of the Lucky Egg vending machines that he installs in bars.</q>\n\n\"Portlandia\" first entered the global consciousness after satirical music video <q>Dream of the ‘90s</q> premiered online in December 2010 and thrust Saturday Night Live star Fred Armisen between a motley assemblage of circus folk, exotic dancers, and idiosyncratically-styled local luminaries. Standing directly to the right of Armisen throughout the video while wearing only star-spangled swim briefs, black leather, and a sizable beard, Aaker stood out as the swiftly-trending clip sparked interest worldwide in the forthcoming sketch comedy series. In the process, Aaker soon became widely known as, in the words of \"Willamette Week\", <q>that guy in underwear and a leather jacket in the ‘Dream of the ‘90s’ clip.</q>\n\nIn addition to serving as a background actor on several episodes, Aaker has played a scavenger hunt umpire, a member of Spyke’s wedding party, and a guest at Nina's birthday party. Ranking the <q>Best and Worst</q> of the series’ third season, \"Portland Monthly\" critic John Chandler determined the <q>hirsute man-about-town</q> tied with a veteran theater actress for <q>Best Performance By A Local</q>. Although <q>Aaker plays himself (presumably)</q> in episodes four and five, Chandler wrote, <q>the man’s beard has star quality.</q> By season four, Aaker had appeared in almost two dozen of the 37 episodes then filmed.\n\nAdditionally, he served as Kumail Nanjiani's assistant on webisodes of IFC's travelogue series \"Kumail Tours Portland\". When the series finished its eighth and final season in the spring of 2018, its network IFC estimated that the collective number of Aaker's various performances ranked below only co-founders Armisen and Carrie Brownstein.\n\nIn 2013, during a month-long residency at Portland’s Newspace Center for Photography, acclaimed San Francisco photographer Kirk Crippens sought out 45 PDX locals for a series of portraits eventually titled \"Portraitlandia\". Over the next year, according to \"Portland Monthly\", the <q>series went viral, drawing millions of eyes to the site of its photographer.</q> Images from the Portraitlandia series would be exhibited at London's National Portrait Gallery in conjunction with the Taylor Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize and toured the United States as part of the Photolucida exhibition.\n\nAlthough Crippens told Wired that he’d <q>expected his work to stand in sharp contrast to the fictions</q> of \"Portlandia\", the artist found <q>significant overlap</q> – particularly so when the first episode he saw after beginning the project happened to showcase Aaker and another two planned subjects. Aaker, <q>a man about town who owns his own lion suit,</q> was among Crittens’ favorite subjects. For their shoot, Crittens said Aakers made available the roof of the nightclub where he tended bar and then asked the photographer <q>if I wanted him to curl up like a kitty in the ivy growing over the top of the roof. Yes, yes I did.</q>\n\nAaker has been involved with several NW rock bands. He spent years playing bass for the Fabulous Miss Wendy, a performer who has toured with Slash and was lauded as the <q>sexiest rock star ever</q> by Revolver. He’s a founding member and bassist of The Gnash, whose music he has compared to <q>a primer-gray broken down Camaro.</q> The group recently put out a split single on the Voodoo Doughnut Recordings label entitled <q>She Took My Doughnut (And Left Me the Hole)</q>.\n\nHe’s currently a member of the re-united Lucky Thirteens with former Weaklings vocalist Bradly Battin. Battins and Aaker previously played together in short-lived 00s group DARLINS. One venue owner explained the Lucky Thirteens’ sound as <q>fun, poppy-punk like you’d hear coming out of the jukebox ... back in 2000.</q>\n\nFor several years throughout the 2000s, Aaker served as frontman of glam metal group Diamond Tuck & The Privates – <q>an eight-piece band carefully culled from the lifers of the Portland rock scene.</q> \"Willamette Week\" referred to their appearance on a (local punk mainstay) Club 21 compilation as <q>epic … buttrock.</q>\n\nIn 2009, Aaker and Diamond Tuck guitarist <q>Private</q> Mike Albano led the live band during performances of writer/director/producer Jeffery <q>Wonderful</q> Wilson’s rock opera \"Chariots of Rubber\" during performances at the Interstate Firehouse Cultural Center. A review from the Portland State University Vanguard, described the original score as <q>1980s metal with a dash of Rocky Horror Picture Show.</q>\n\nThe following year, Aaker and Wilson again joined forces as, respectively, producer and director of \"Hot Gun\". The <q>rock ’n’ roll re-imagining of the iconic blockbuster Top Gun</q> was performed live on stage at PDX nightclub Dante's.\n\nIn a review from \"Portland Monthly\", their critic admired the multimedia production’s deft manipulation of the original film – inserting previously-shot scenes of the stage actors into aerial battles – but found the comedy’s <q>laughs were loudest with the in-crowd. The novelty of seeing friends dressed funny, and/or comically incorporated into video footage, was the bulk of the fun.</q> \"Willamette Week\", however, raved \"Hot Gun\"’s <q>summer stock-'n'-roll aesthetic, artfully unchoreographed and shruggably brilliant, resembles an old movie naval pageant (coconut bras on bearded men, absent camp or shame) blessed with the underutilized talents peculiar to Portland ...</q>\n\nA year later, Aaker brought John Walterich’s online-dating satire \"Brie\" to the stage of the Tonic Lounge for a brief run. \"Willamette Week\" critic Jonathan Frochtzwajg described the production as </q>a largely amateur, very tattooed cast ... scored live by rotating punk-rock acts.</q>\n\nAaker acted in the 2017 film \"Neil Stryker and the Tyrant of Time\" alongside TV icons Walter Koenig (Ensign Pavel Chekov)and David Ogden Stiers (Major Charles Emerson Winchester). That same year, he was a central figure in the 2017 documentary \"Thank You for Supporting the Arts\", which also features Gus Van Sant. The doc explores the physical and emotional trauma suffered by author and exotic dancer Liv <q>Viva Las Vegas</q> Osthus following her fight against breast cancer and subsequent mastectomy. Osthus and Aaker were in a relationship for many years. As the first to discover her disease, he plays a significant role in the film's coverage of her struggles.\n\nAs a judge for the 2011 West Coast Beard and Mustache Championships, Aaker appeared in a 2011 episode of the \"Whisker Wars\" cable reality series. <q>You're not judging on what's the biggest or the longest but ... the grandest,</q> he told the \"Oregonian\". <q>It just has the magic glow ...</q> He’s also regularly called upon to help select the winners of various events around the Portland area such as the Bacon Cup, the Iron Bartender competition, the horror short GuignolFest, and Portland’s inaugural Pudding Wrestling Massacre. In a Vice article that takes its title (<q>Every Vagina Is A Snowflake</q>) from a quote given by Aaker, the magazine noted that the <q>returning judge</q> brought his own props overseeing the beauty pageant for exotic dancers' nether regions.\n\nAaker has been cultivating his beard for more than ten years. He’s become a notable figure in competitive bearding events, winning several freestyle awards, and can be seen in the first season of IFC series \"Whisker Wars\".\n\nAt the 2014 World Beard and Moustache Championships held inside Portland’s Keller Auditorium, which hosted 300 contestants from ten countries, Aaker emerged as a fan favorite. \"The Oregonian\" reported that he \"somehow got extra time, walking onstage in short shorts and a white fur coat, his red beard shaped into a flying V guitar, gyrating his belly to the roar of the crowd. He walked away with sixth place, but he stole the audience's heart.\"\n\nIn 2012, Aaker helped found the Portland Beardsmen – a band of facial-hair enthusiasts who compete for prizes awarded on the merits of beard size, grooming, style, creativity, and other characteristics. The nonprofit group raises funds for transportation to far-flung tournaments, and they also organize charitable efforts such as beard-wielded car washes. For their annual Beards N Roses drive each Mother’s Day, hirsute members don brightly-colored tights and tutus for delivering bouquets to Portland-area moms. Aaker helped originate the program six years ago to benefit the Uprise Books Project.\n\nOn the evening of August 28, 2012, Aaker was among 13 bearded men detained at gunpoint by officers from the Portland police on the Burnside Bridge during what \"the Oregonian\" termed \"a military-themed photo shoot for breast cancer awareness.\" After an unnamed observer’s 911 call alerted authorities about suspicious characters wearing camouflaged body armor, both sides of the bridge were closed for nearly an hour as the police investigated the situation. Two men were taken into custody for disorderly conduct and carrying an (unloaded) AR-15 assault rifle through a public space.\n\nAccording to KPTV News, the group was organized by Aaker to aid a national fundraising campaign entitled <q>Beards for Breast Cancer</q> that was assembling a calender featuring pictures of bearding groups from around the country. Since the Portland contingent was designated to appear alongside July, Aaker thought the resulting photo should feel especially patriotic, which led several of the beardsmen to don militaristic garb. (KATU News reported that Aaker himself had on an NSYNC T-shirt.) \"We are the good guys,\" Aaker told the station, \"just a bunch of dudes walking across the bridge wearing camo getting rad.\"\n"}
{"id": "44500762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44500762", "title": "Kick the cat", "text": "Kick the cat\n\nKick the cat (or kick the dog) is a metaphor used to describe how a relatively high-ranking person in an organization or family displaces his or her frustrations by abusing a lower-ranking person, who may in turn take it out on his or her own subordinate.\n\nThe term has been used at least since the 19th century. According to author John Bradshaw, humans were far more cruel to cats at that time, to the extent that kicking one was not perceived to be unusual and hence entered the language as a popular idiom. \n\nThe concept was reinforced in British culture by a scene in the \"Blackadder\" episode \"Nob and Nobility\" in which Edmund Blackadder kicks the cat when annoyed, and the cat bites the mouse, and the mouse bites Baldrick.\n\nIn current usage, the name envisions a scenario where an angry or frustrated employee comes home from work looking for some way to take out his anger, but the only thing present is the cat. He physically abuses it as a means of relieving his frustration, despite the cat playing no part in causing it.\n\nKicking the cat is commonly used to describe the behaviour of staff abusing coworkers or subordinates as a mechanism to relieve stress. This behaviour can result in a chain reaction, where a higher-ranking member of the company abuses his or her subordinate, who takes it out on his or her own subordinate, and so on down the line. This domino effect can also be seen in family dynamics, where the father yells at the mother who yells at the older child who yells at the younger child who yells at the pet.\n\nBlaming others can lead to kicking the dog where individuals in a hierarchy blame their immediate subordinate, and this propagates down a hierarchy until the lowest rung (the \"dog\"). A 2009 experimental study has shown that blaming can be contagious even for uninvolved onlookers.\n\nAccording to \"Psychology Today\", \"Anger and frustration in one part of life can lead us to lash out at innocent people (or pets) in another.\" The technical term for this kind of behaviour is \"displaced aggression\".\n\nKicking the cat is looked upon unfavourably and viewed as a sign of poor anger management. According to author Steve Sonderman, \"Men funnel 90 percent of their emotions through anger\" and may \"kick the cat\" as a substitute for grief, anxiety or other emotions. Psychology author Raj Persaud suggests that people \"kick the cat\" as a means of catharsis because they fear expressing their full emotions to the peers and colleagues.\n"}
{"id": "4242303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4242303", "title": "Ladytron (comics)", "text": "Ladytron (comics)\n\nLadytron is a fictional character in the Wildstorm and currently, DC Comics universe. In addition to her character appearances, Ladytron's likeness was used in-universe by Jack Marlowe's Halo Corporation as a mascot in various commercials.\n\nMaxine Manchester was abused by her father as a young teenager. She fled from home and turned to a life of crime, robbing stores and killing anybody who got in her way. Soon, the government caught up with her and she was hit several times during a gunfight with the FBI. Her wounded body was handed over to Doctor Khaz, a mad scientist, who enhanced her body, replacing most of it with robotic parts. She escaped and continued her crime spree as a cyborg. Khaz recaptured her and told her about Stanley, a robot he had created before her. Khaz saw himself as father to Stanley and Maxine and sent her out to bring back Stanley. Maxine and Stanley shared the same psychopathic mentality and soon married between crime sprees. Maxine and Stanley decided to kill Khaz, but Khaz had an override in Stanley's brain. The brainless Stanley turned on Maxine and she killed him. She then killed Khaz and returned to her life of crime.\n\nAt this time, Savant and Mister Majestic were trying to rebuild the WildC.A.T.s after the previous team were nearly all presumed killed. They convinced Max Cash, alias Condition Red, to join and acquired the Tactical Augmented Organism (T.A.O., later called simply Tao) for their team. Savant wanted another woman for the team and decided upon Maxine. Majestic didn't want to be associated with a criminal like Maxine, but T.A.O. managed to change his mind through his hypnotic abilities.\n\nThe new WildC.A.T.s captured Maxine while she attempt to rob both sides of a drug transaction and T.A.O. built a virtual reality-program to reeducate Maxine. The program worked and Maxine joined the WildC.A.T.s, but still remained violent and anti-social. She became romantically interested in Max Cash, but he was turned off by her robotic body and her abrasive personality.\n\nAround this time Ladytron and her team appeared in issue 2 of the Image series \"New Man\".\n\nWhen Max got wounded in a bombing, he used the opportunity to avoid her by sneaking out of the hospital. Maxine was furious and took out her anger on the man responsible for wounding Max (despite flirting with the cyborg OvertKill moments before). The man told her and Spartan that T.A.O. had ordered him to bomb the building.\n\nThe WildC.A.T.s confronted T.A.O. who turned out to be an evil mastermind after all. T.A.O. inflicted heavy casualties on the team, including Maxine. He managed to remove her cooling systems so that her internal nuclear reactor overheated. Majestic removed her nuclear reactor, but Maxine was heavily damaged. She was taken to the Church of Gort, a cult for cyborgs, robots and Artificial Intelligences, for repairs. T.A.O. was seemingly slain in the sewers underneath the Halo building.\n\nDuring her stay with the Church of Gort, Maxine became a convert and started to follow the teachings of the Church of Gort. Mister Majestic who had become somewhat of a father figure to Maxine was pleased to see her embrace the tenet \"all life is sacred\", though she only seemed to recognize mechanical life as sacred. As she stated in \"WildC.A.T.S.\" #50, harming a toaster would be the same as harming a sentient. Still, according to Majestic, it was a step in the right direction. It was in the same issue that T.A.O. was revealed to be alive; he had brainwashed a shapeshifter named Mr. White who was then damaged, not slain, in the sewers.\n\nAfter a schism within the Church, Maxine was targeted by other members for having too many organic parts.\n\nMaxine fled the Church of Gort and met up with Max's brother Cole Cash. Cole was annoyed by Maxine and left her with the Halo Corporation. There, she overheard that former WildC.A.T.s-member Voodoo had been injured by serial killer Samuel Smith and decided to take vengeance upon him.\n\nHer plan was simple-minded: she visited all hotels and motels in the area to fight anybody listed under the name \"Smith\". After attacking a few innocents, Maxine met with Samuel Smith, whose superhuman powers turned out to be more than she could handle. The damage was so great that she was deactivated.\n\nLater, her body was reprogrammed and adapted into a more scorpion-like form by Wildcat-traitor Noir to attack Spartan, now known as Jack Marlowe, but Marlowe easily defeated the body. Her body was then used by Grifter, whose legs were broken, as a remote-controlled body. Her personality was encrypted and filed away in the Halo Corporation's mainframe. When Grifter's legs healed, he no longer needed her robotic body.\n\nIn an alternate future (2006), Mister Majestic found Maxine Manchester as the sole surviving Wildcat. She revealed that Daemonites had taken over the planet and that she herself was a trap, set by the Daemonites to kill Majestic. Her nuclear reactor exploded, but was incapable of seriously injuring Majestic. Majestic went back in time to prevent this future.\n\nMaxine makes her appearance in issue #5 of \"Team 7\" as an injured soldier undergoing cybernetic limb replacement at the Advanced Prosthesis Research Center while a Gamorran program associated with the Spartan Project goes awry turning the personnel into biomechanical killers. In the catastrophe, Maxine is extensively transformed into a cyborg. She later reappeared in \"Teen Titans\" \"Blinded by the light\" as a pawn of Manchester Black. She was defeated multiple times as part of his plans before being betrayed and shut down for good by Red Robin\n\nAs a cyborg, Maxine is very strong and durable. She is capable of lifting and throwing a car and completely bullet-proof. Her arms have built-in guns and her mouth can open up to reveal a sonic blaster. During the time Grifter used her as a remote-body, Ladytron also was capable of flight by extending a rocketpack inside her back.\n\n"}
{"id": "12330489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12330489", "title": "Marine regression", "text": "Marine regression\n\nMarine regression is a geological process occurring when areas of submerged seafloor are exposed above the sea level. The opposite event, marine transgression, occurs when flooding from the sea covers previously exposed land.\n\nEvidence of marine regressions and transgressions occurs throughout the fossil record, and these fluctuations are thought to have caused or contributed to several mass extinctions, among them the Permian-Triassic extinction event (250 million years ago) and Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event (66 Ma). At the time of the Permian-Triassic extinction, the largest extinction event in the Earth's history, global sea level fell 250 m (820 ft).\n\nA major regression could itself cause marine organisms in shallow seas to go extinct, but mass extinctions tend to involve both terrestrial and aquatic species, and it is harder to see how a marine regression could cause widespread extinctions of land animals. Regressions are, therefore, seen as correlates or symptoms of major extinctions, rather than primary causes. The Permian regression might have been related to the formation of Pangaea: the accumulation of all the major landmasses into one body could have facilitated a regression, by providing \"a slight enlargement of the ocean basins as the great continents coalesced.\" However, that cause could not have applied in all, or even many, other cases.\n\nDuring the ice ages of the Pleistocene, a clear correlation existed between marine regressions and episodes of glaciation; as the balance shifts between the global cryosphere and hydrosphere, more of the planet's water in ice sheets means less in the oceans. At the height of the last ice age, at around 18,000 years before the present, the global sea level was 120 to 130 m (390-425 ft) lower than today. A cold spell around 6 million years ago was linked to an advance in glaciation, a marine regression, and the start of the Messinian salinity crisis in the Mediterranean basin. Some major regressions of the past, however, seem unrelated to glaciation episodes — the regression that accompanied the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous Period being one example.\n\nA clear and certain understanding of major marine regressions has not yet been achieved; according to one hypothesis, regressions may be linked to a \"slowdown in sea-floor spreading, leading to a generalized drop in sea level (as the mid-ocean ridges would take up less space)...\" In that view, major marine regressions are one aspect of a normal variation in rates of plate tectonic activity, which lead to major episodes of global volcanism like the Siberian Traps and the Deccan Traps, which in turn cause large extinction events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4382215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4382215", "title": "Megastructures (architecture)", "text": "Megastructures (architecture)\n\nMegastructures are an architectural concept popularized in the 1960s where a city could be encased in a single building, or a relatively small number of buildings interconnected together.\n\nThe concept was popularized by avant-garde architectural groups such as Archigram.\n\nMegacity Montreal is the title of a chapter in a book titled \"Megastructure: Urban Futures of the Recent Past\" written by architecture theoretician Reyner Banham. Place Bonaventure in Montreal is featured as an example in this book.\n\nPlace Bonaventure was the world's largest building upon its completion in 1967. Place Bonaventure was first conceived as an exhibition hall, international trade centre, and hotel. The building covers an area of 2 ha (5 acres) and is built over 18 Canadian National Railway tracks leading to Central Station. Place Bonaventure is also linked to the subway system and the Tour de la Bourse (Stock Exchange Tower) through a network of underground tunnels. Until major renovation work drastically changed its appearance, Place Bonaventure was an entirely self-contained cubic structure that had few windows. Construction began in 1964 and was completed in 1967. \n\nDuring the Expo 67 world fair held in Montréal, Québec, various pavilions exhibited megastructure features, such as the USA, Netherlands and Theme pavilions, as well as Habitat '67.\n\nArchitectural critics visiting the world fair were struck by Montréal's Grain elevators which, with their networks of covered conveyors belts, irresistibly evoked the images megastructures touted in experimental circles. \n\nMontréal’s subway system also evoked megastructures as it is directly connected to several downtown buildings which eventually evolved into the famed Underground City.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52684589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52684589", "title": "Millennium Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere", "text": "Millennium Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere\n\nMillennium Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere is an organization originated at Stanford University which focuses on the creation of a new paradigm by the use of foresight intelligence to systematically examine likely and possible futures so as to determine what behavioral and institutional changes are necessary to ensure a sustainable and equitable future for all.\n\nStrategically, MAHB is aiming to bridge the gap between scientific knowledge and policy action so as to alter public perception of these issues as well as to understand why desperate conservation needs are barely responded to.\n\nEmphasis is focused upon population growth and increasing consumption by the already well off as well as economic, racial and gender inequality. It aims to bring together civil society groups and related organizations to build networks, share information and act together.\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century when the MAHB was born, it was known as the Millennium Assessment of Human Behavior, making the point that it was following the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MEA) but focusing on human behavior and collective actions leading to global collapse. But that name led to considerable confusion, especially because another global behavioral assessment was underway, and because MAHB activities range from research related to how behavioral, cultural, and institutional change toward a sustainable path can be accomplished to generating fora to discuss and illuminate that path.\n\nThus it was decided to retain the well-known acronym and re-focus the name to a more accurate description: the Millennium Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere.\n\nIn April 2014 a chapter detailing the MAHB's scientific approach and research agenda for sustainability was included in the book \"Understanding Society and Natural Resources: Forging new strands of integration across the social sciences\" (ed. Michael J. Manfredo, Jerry J. Vaske, Andreas Techkemmer, and Esther A. Duke, Springer). The chapter, \"Millenniuam Alliance for Humanity and the Biosphere (MAHB): Integrating Social Science and the Humanities into Solving sustainability Challenges\", was co-authored by Ilan Kelman, Eugene A. Rosa, Tom R. Burns, Paul Ehrlich, Joan M. Diamond, Nora Machado, Donald Kennedy, and Lennart Olsson.\n"}
{"id": "28209104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28209104", "title": "Mubariz Ibrahimov", "text": "Mubariz Ibrahimov\n\nMubariz Aghakerim oglu Ibrahimov () (February 7, 1988, Əliabad, Bilasuvar Rayon, Azerbaijan - June 19, 2010, Çaylı, Tartar Rayon, Azerbaijan) was an Azerbaijani Warrant Officer and National Hero of Azerbaijan.\n\nAfter completing his secondary education in 2005, Ibrahimov was drafted to Azerbaijani Armed Forces serving from 2006 through 2007. In September 2009, he entered the courses for warrants, after which he served in Naftalan.\n\nOn June 19, Ibrahimov was killed in a shootout along the frontline between Azerbaijani and Armenian and Karabakh forces. Four Armenian soldiers also died in the shootout. An Azerbaijani Defense Ministry press release said Mubariz Ibrahimov died while fighting back against Armenian soldiers in the Chayli village of the Terter region. The Azerbaijani government has attributed the deaths of the 4 Armenian soldiers to Ibrahimov, and have posthumously granted him the title of National Hero of Azerbaijan. \nHowever, some sources indicate that Ibrahimov has killed more than 100 soiliders. It is reported that Vladimir Putin told in one of his speech that he was astonished to hear about the bravery of Mubariz Ibrahimov, who has killed 135 Armenians and is like a real-life Rambo.\n\nThe Armenian side took Ibrahimov's body and has not returned it.\" Armenia states Ibrahimov was shot dead in Armenian-controlled territory which proves the fighting was provoked by Azerbaijani forces.\n\nThe body of Mubariz Ibrahimov remained under Armenian control for 141 days. The spokesman of the Defense Ministry of Azerbaijan Teymour Abdullayev alleged that \"Armenia repeatedly claimed that the soldier's body is not in their hand and they even didn’t abstain to mislead the international organizations\". On August 2, photos, which are claimed to be Ibrahimov's body, were placed on Internet by the Armenians\". Azerbaijani authorities asked the ICRC International Committee of the Red Cross to mediate in returning Ibrahimov's body. Later the head of the Armenian Apostolic Church Karekin II asked the President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan to return the body to Azerbaijan. Finally the body was returned to Azerbaijan on November 6 following the agreement reached by presidents of Armenia and Azerbaijan in Astrakhan in October 2010. Mubariz Ibrahimov was buried at the second Alley of Honors in Baku. The funeral was attended by Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev.\n\nOn July 22, 2010 President Ilham Aliyev signed a decree that conferred Ibrahimov with the status of national hero. The Cabinet of Ministers is empowered to ensure the naming of one of the secondary schools of Bilesuvar after Mubariz Ibrahimov and the executive powers of Bilesuvar are empowered to ensure the naming of one of the streets after Mubariz Ibrahimov. A documentary about his life was also proposed by MP Ganira Pashayeva. On 15 June 2011, a four-meter tall granite statue of Mubariz Ibrahimov sponsored by Central Bank of Azerbaijan was unveiled in front of school named after him.\n\nAn armada class tanker in Turkey also bears his name.\n\nThe 12.7X108 caliber Mubariz Istiglal sniper rifle is named after him.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51887672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51887672", "title": "Neural circuit reconstruction", "text": "Neural circuit reconstruction\n\nNeural circuit reconstruction is the reconstruction of the detailed circuitry of the nervous system (or a portion of the nervous system) of an animal. It is sometimes called EM reconstruction since the main method used is the electron microscope (EM). This field is a close relative of reverse engineering of human-made devices, and is part of the field of connectomics, which in turn is a sub-field of neuroanatomy.\n\nSome of the model systems used for circuit reconstruction are the fruit fly, the mouse, and the nematode \"C. elegans\".\n\nThe sample must be fixed, stained, and embedded in plastic.\n\nThe sample may be cut into thin slices with a microtome, then imaged using transmission electron microscopy. Alternatively, the sample may be imaged with a scanning electron microscope, then the surface abraded using a focused ion beam, or trimmed using an in-microscope microtome. Then the sample is re-imaged, and the process repeated until the desired volume is processed.\n\nThe first step is to align the individual images into a coherent three dimensional volume.\n\nThe volume is then annotated using one of two main methods. The first manually identifies the skeletons of each neurite. The second techniques uses computer vision software to identify voxels belonging to the same neuron, which are then corrected in the process of \"proofreading\".\n\n\nUnderstanding the detailed operation of the reconstructed networks also requires knowledge of gap junctions (hard to see with existing techniques), the identity of neurotransmitters and the locations and identities of receptors. In addition, neuromodulators can diffuse across large distances and still strongly affect function. Currently these features must be obtained through other techniques. Expansion microscopy may provide an alternative method.\n"}
{"id": "1956667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1956667", "title": "Osmoconformer", "text": "Osmoconformer\n\nOsmoconformers are marine organisms that maintain an internal environment that is osmotic to their external environment. This means that the osmotic pressure, or osmolarity, of the organism’s cells is equal to the osmotic pressure of their surrounding environment. By minimizing the osmotic gradient, this subsequently minimizes the net influx and efflux of water into and out of cells. Even though osmoconformers have an internal environment that's isosmotic to their external environment the types of ions in the two environments differ greatly in order to allow critical biological functions to occur. A benefit to osmoconformation is that organisms don’t need to expend as much energy as osmoregulators in order to regulate ion gradients. However, to ensure the correct types of ions are in their desired location, a small amount of energy is expended on ion transport. A disadvantage to osmoconformation is that organisms are subject to changes in the osmolarity of their environment.\n\nMost osmoconformers are marine invertebrates such as echinoderms (such as starfish), mussels, marine crabs, lobsters, jellyfish, ascidians (sea squirts - primitive chordates), and scallops. Some insects are also osmoconformers. Some osmoconformers, such as echinoderms, are stenohaline, which means they can only survive in a limited range of external osmolarities. The survival of such organisms is thus contingent on their external osmotic environment remaining relatively constant. On the other hand, some osmoconformers are classified as euryhaline, which means they can survive in a broad range of external osmolarities. Mussels are a prime example of a euryhaline osmoconformer. Mussels have adapted to survive in a broad range of external salinities due to their ability to close their shells which allows them to seclude themselves from unfavorable external environments. \n\nThere are a couple of examples of osmoconformers that are craniates such as hagfish, skates and sharks. Their body fluid is isoosmotic with seawater, but their high osmolarity is maintained by making the concentration of organic solutes unnaturally high. Sharks concentrate urea in their body, and since urea denatures proteins at high concentrations, they also accumulate trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) to counter the effect. Sharks adjust their internal osmolarity according to the osmolarity of the sea water surrounding them. Rather than ingesting sea water in order to change their internal salinity, sharks are able to absorb sea water directly. This is due to the high concentration of urea kept inside their bodies. This high concentration of urea creates a diffusion gradient which permits the shark to absorb water in order to equalize the concentration difference. The crab-eating frog, or Rana cancrivora, is an example of a vertebrate osmoconformer. The crab-eating frog also regulates its rates of urea retention and excretion, which allows them to survive and maintain their status as osmoconformers in a wide range of external salinities. Hagfish maintain an internal ion composition plasma that differs from that of seawater. The internal ionic environment of hagfish contains a lower concentration of divalent ions (Ca2+, Mg2+, SO4 2-) and a slightly higher concentration of monovalent ions. Hagfish therefore have to expend some energy for osmoregulation.\n\nIon gradients are crucial to many major biological functions on a cellular level. Consequently, the ionic composition of an organism's internal environment is highly regulated with respect to its external environment. Osmoconformers have adapted so that they utilize the ionic composition of their external environment, which is typically seawater, in order to support important biological functions. For instance, seawater has a high concentration of sodium ions, which helps support muscle contraction and neuronal signaling when paired with high internal concentrations of potassium ions.\n\n"}
{"id": "31917125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31917125", "title": "Peter Nyombi", "text": "Peter Nyombi\n\nPeter Nyombi (23 April 1954 – 7 October 2018) was a Ugandan lawyer and politician. He was an Attorney General and member of the Ugandan Cabinet, appointed on 27 May 2011. He replaced Kiddu Makubuya who became Minister for General Duties in the Office of the Prime Minister. In the cabinet reshuffle of 1 March 2015, he was dropped from the cabinet and was replaced by Fred Ruhindi. He was also the elected Member of Parliament for \"Buruuli County\" in Nakasongola District.\n\nNyombi was born in Nakasongola District, on 23 April 1954, to Eriakimu Kajja, a schoolteacher and Mrs. Kajja, a full-time housewife. Nyombi is one of thirteen siblings, one of his brothers is Professor John Musisi Senyonyi, the Vice Chancellor of Uganda Christian University and another was diplomatic service member Henry Mayega, who was deputy head of mission for the embassy in China. Nyombi attended Nakasongola Primary School followed by Kings College Buddo for his O-Level and A-Level education. In 1973, he was admitted to Makerere University, Uganda's largest and oldest public university, established in 1922. He studied law, graduating in 1976, with a Bachelor of Laws degree. In 1977, he received the Diploma in Legal Practice from the Law Development Centre.\n\nFrom 1977 until 1986, he worked as a State Attorney in the Department of Public Prosecution in the Ugandan Ministry of Justice. For the next ten years, from 1986 until 1996, he served as Counsel in the Office of the Inspector General of Government (IGG). From 1996 until 2001, he worked as the Director of Legal Affairs in the office of the IGG. In 2001, he opened his own legal practice, \"Nyombi and Company Advocates\", which is still operation as of March 2015. Also in 2001, he was elected to the Uganda's Parliament to represent \"Buruuli County\", Nakasongola District. From May 2011 until March 2015, he served as Uganda's Attorney General. Nyombi represented Nakasongola County in parliament from 2006 to 2016 when he lost his seat to Noah Mutebi. He helped to provide solar panels to maternity wards and health centres, renovate schools and provide boreholes for his constituency. Nyombi provided free legal advice to military veterans seeking compensation from the government and to constituents involved in land disputes.\n\nIn August 2013 the Uganda Law Society, an industry association suspended Nyombi from membership, citing three controversial opinions that he had rendered, opinions that contravened conventional legal understanding:\n\n\nThe society issued Nyombi with a \"certificate of incompetence\" after a vote by its members during an extraordinary meeting which Nyombi chose not to attend. The suspension was to have lasted two years but Nyombi successfully fought to have it quashed in the Uganda High Court in December 2014.\n\nNyombi was married and father to four children. He was a devout Christian. Nyombi suffered from hypertension and died of heart failure at the SAS Clinic in Kampala on 7 October 2018, having been rushed in with breathing difficulties.\n\n"}
{"id": "22391698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22391698", "title": "Powhatan Henry Clarke", "text": "Powhatan Henry Clarke\n\nPowhatan Henry Clarke (October 9, 1862 – July 21, 1893) was a United States Army First Lieutenant who was a recipient of the Medal of Honor during the Geronimo Campaign in Sonora, Mexico. He received the medal for rescuing a wounded soldier on May 3, 1886.\n\nClarke was born at Ulster Plantation, Boyce, Louisiana on October 9, 1862. He was the grandson of U.S. federal judge Henry Boyce and Irene Archinard, and the son of Louise Frances Boyce and Dr. (Professor) Powhatan Clarke. He partly studied in France. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1884.\n\nClarke was a Second Lieutenant in the 10th Cavalry Regiment of the Buffalo Soldiers at Fort Davis, Texas. On May 3, 1886, he rescued one of his wounded soldiers, Corporal Edward Scott, who was under heavy fire from Apaches at Pinito Mountains, Sonora. He received a Medal of Honor for this action. He was the commander of Apache Scouts until 1891. In 1891, he became First Lieutenant and he was transferred to the 9th Cavalry Regiment. He was back with the 10th Cavalry by early 1892. In 1891–92 he was an observer, stationed at Düsseldorf, with a Westphalian hussar regiment. The discipline of the German Army greatly impressed him. From 1892 until his death in 1893, he lived in Fort Custer, Montana. In 1892 he married Elizabeth Clemens of St. Louis, Missouri; they had one son. He drowned in the Little Bighorn River on July 21, 1893, and was buried at Calvary Cemetery in St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nRank and organization: Second Lieutenant, 10th U.S. Cavalry. Place and date: At Pinito Mountains, Sonora, Mex., May 3, 1886. Entered service at: Baltimore, Md. Birth: Alexandria, La. Date of issue: March 12, 1891.\n\nCitation:\nRushed forward to the rescue of a soldier who was severely wounded and lay, disabled, exposed to the enemy's fire, and carried him to a place of safety.\n\nPhoto courtesy of the Helen and Alfred Wettermark Collection\n"}
{"id": "17545854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17545854", "title": "Psychic apparatus", "text": "Psychic apparatus\n\nThe term psychic apparatus (also psychical apparatus, mental apparatus) denotes a central, theoretic construct of Freudian metapsychology, wherein:\n\nAs a psychologist, Sigmund Freud used the German terms psychischer Apparat and seelischer Apparat, about the functioning of which he elaborates:\n\nFreud proposed the psychic apparatus as solely a theoretic construct explaining the functioning of the mind, and not a neurologic structure of the brain:\n\nMoreover, in emphasizing the immateriality of the psychic apparatus, Freud dismissed the matter of its physical substance:\n"}
{"id": "29607672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29607672", "title": "Pterygotioidea", "text": "Pterygotioidea\n\nPterygotioidea (the name deriving from the type genus \"Pterygotus\", meaning \"winged fish\") is a superfamily of eurypterids, an extinct group of aquatic arthropods. Pterygotioids were the most derived members of the infraorder Diploperculata and the sister group of the adelophthalmoid eurypterids. The group includes the basal and small hughmilleriids, the larger and specialized slimonids and the famous pterygotids which were equipped with robust and powerful cheliceral claws.\n\nThough the more primitive hughmilleriids were small, \"Hughmilleria wangi\" being the smallest of all pterygotioids at just in length, later members of the group, particularly in the Pterygotidae, would become the largest known arthropods to ever exist with several genera surpassing in length.\n\nAmong all currently recognized eurypterid clades, the Pterygotioidea is the most diverse, containing over 50 species in 10 genera. With the number of recognized eurypterid species being around 250, pterygotioids account for more than a fifth of all known eurypterid species. Though the group only existed for around 50 million years and during a time when most continents were separated by large expanses of water (in contrast with previous and later periods of time when there had been supercontinents), the Pterygotioidea had the most cosmopolitan distribution of all eurypterid groups. Their fossils have been recovered from Europe, Africa, North America, South America, Asia and Australia, with the earliest remains being from the Early Silurian of Scotland and South China. The exact geographical origin of the group remains unknown, but is thought to have been in Laurentia.\n\nThough several characteristic and diagnostic traits can be established for each of the families included within the Pterygotioidea, the group as a whole is primarily joined together by the shared features of marginal eyes, that their compound eyes are placed near or on the margin of the carapace (the \"head\" plate).\nPterygotioid eurypterids, whose fossils are recovered in deposits ranging in age from the Early Silurian to the Middle Devonian, can be distinguished from all other eurypterine eurypterids by the placement of their eyes, being located near or in some cases on the margin of the carapace (the \"head\" plate). Pterygotioids ranged in size from small eurypterids, the smallest being \"Hughmilleria wangi\" at just in length, to the largest arthropods to ever live, the largest being \"Jaekelopterus rhenaniae\" which might have reached lengths of .\n\nLike all other chelicerates, and other arthropods in general, pterygotioid eurypterids possessed segmented bodies and jointed appendages (limbs) covered in a cuticle composed of proteins and chitin. In the Pterygotidae, the outer surface of the exoskeleton was covered in a scale-like ornamentation but it was smooth within Slimonidae and Hughmilleriidae.\n\nThe chelicerate body is divided into two tagmata (sections); the frontal prosoma (head) and posterior opisthosoma (abdomen). The appendages were attached to the prosoma, and were characterized in pterygotids and slimonids by being small and slender and lacking spines. In contrast, the more basal Hughmilleriids did possess spines on their appendages.\n\nIn derived members of the group, Slimonidae and Pterygotidae, the telson (the posteriormost segment of the body) was expanded and flattened, often with a spike protruding from its end. The telsons of the Hughmilleriidae were not flattened, instead being lanceolate (in the shape of a lance or spike) and similar to those of more primitive eurypterids such as \"Eurypterus\".\n\nLike other chelicerates, pterygotioids possessed chelicerae. These appendages are the only ones that appear before the mouth and take the form of small pincers used to feed in most eurypterid groups. This function is retained in the more basal Hughmilleriidae and Slimonidae, but pterygotid chelicerae were large and long with strong and well developed teeth on specialized chelae (claws).\n\nThe first pterygotioid fossils to be uncovered were those of the type genus, \"Pterygotus\". Louis Agassiz, a Swiss-American biologist and geologist, described the fossils in 1839 and named it \"Pterygotus\" in the mistaken belief that they were the fossil remains of a large fish; \"Pterygotus\"\" translating to \"winged fish\". Agassiz first recognized the true nature of the fossils as arthropod remains five years later in 1844 after having examined more complete fossils recovered in the Old Red Sandstone of Scotland.\n\nIn 1856, the species \"Pterygotus acuminata\" was named by John William Salter. The fossils referred to this species, recovered from Lesmahagow, Scotland, were soon realized to be distinct from other species of \"Pterygotus\" (such as the type species \"P. anglicus\") and that same year geologist David Page erected a new genus to contain the species. The new genus, \"Slimonia\", could be differentiated from other known species of \"Pterygotus\" most apparently by the lack of large cheliceral claws, otherwise a defining characteristic of \"Pterygotus\".\n\nIn 1903, the genus \"Hughmilleria\" was created based on fossils discovered in the Pittsford Shale Member of the Vernon Formation. It's describer, the American geologist Clifton J. Sarle, considered the genus to represent an intermediate form between the more basal \"Eurypterus\" and the derived \"Pterygotus\" but did not assign \"Hughmilleria\" to any particular family.\n\nThe family Pterygotidae was erected in 1912 by John Mason Clarke and Rudolf Ruedemann to constitute a group for the genera \"Pterygotus\", \"Slimonia\", \"Hastimima\" and \"Hughmilleria\". \"Pterygotus\" had also been designated as containing two subgenera; \"Pterygotus\" (\"Curviramus\") and \"Pterygotus\" (\"Erettopterus\"), but \"Erettopterus\" would later be raised to its own genus. American paleontologist Erik N. Kjellesvig-Waering emended the Pterygotidae in 1951, referring the genera \"Hastimima\", \"Hughmilleria\" and \"Slimonia\", and the newly named \"Grossopterus\", to their own family within the Eurypteracea, Hughmilleriidae, leaving \"Pterygotus\" as the sole pterygotid genus.\n\nIn 1955, Norwegian paleontolgist and geologist Leif Størmer considered the pterygotid clade to represent a family within the eurypterid superfamily \"Eurypteracea\". In 1962, Norwegian paleontologist Nestor Novojilov raised the Eurypteracea and Pterygotidae to subordinal and superfamily status, Eurypteracea becoming the suborder Eurypterina and creating the superfamily Pterygotioidea, containing Hughmilleriidae and Pterygotidae. The same year, Novojilov also reclassified \"Slimonia\" into a pterygotioid family of its own as it was considered distinct enough from other hughmilleriids to warrant a separate family, the Slimonidae.\n\nPterygotioids are classified within the infraorder Diploperculata, in the Eurypterina suborder of eurypterids. The infraorder Diploperculata contains the four most derived superfamilies of eurypterine eurypterids; Carcinosomatoidea, Adelophthalmoidea, Pterygotioidea and the waeringopteroids, united by the shared feature that the genital operculum (the structure that contains the genital appendage) is made up of two fused segments.\n\nPterygotioidea is the most derived superfamily of the suborder and contains over 50 species (the exact number obscured by dubious species and possible synonyms), which accounts for more than a fifth of the approximately 250 known eurypterid species. The closest sister group of the Pterygotioidea, Adelophthalmoidea, also contains a large amount of species, over 40, and is the second most diverse eurypterid superfamily.\n\nThe cladogram below is simplified from 2007 study by O. Erik Tetlie, showcasing the position of the pterygotioids within the suborder Eurypterina. Placement of Diploperculata follows Lamsdell \"et al.\" 2013.\n\nThough the Pterygotidae are accepted to clearly represent the most derived group within the pterygotioid superfamily, there has been an ongoing debate on whether the hughmilleriids or the slimonids are the most closely related to the pterygotids, and thus also which of the two families is the most basal. This debate was resolved with the description of \"Ciurcopterus\", a primitive pterygotid that clearly combines features of \"Slimonia\" (especially within the appendages) and of more derived pterygotid eurypterids, revealing that Slimonidae was the closest sister-group of the Pterygotidae.\n\nThe lack of ornamentation in the telson of \"Hughmilleria\", combined with the fact that the genus shares certain characteristics with basal adelophthalmids (in particular the triangular anterior margin of the carapace), places it as the most basal genus in the superfamily. \"Hughmilleria\" also possessed far more gnathobasic (of the gnathobase, an appendage used in feeding) teeth than any other pterygotioid, possessing 18-20 whilst more derived pterygotioids (including related hughmilleriid \"Herefordopterus\") possessed only 12-13.\n\nThe cladogram presented below, derived from a 2007 study by researcher O. Erik Tetlie, showcases the interrelationships between the pterygotioid eurypterids. Whilst Slimonidae and Pterygotidae form monophyletic (and thus valid) groups, Hughmilleriidae has been recovered as paraphyletic in a number of phylogenetic analyses and does thus not form an actually valid scientific grouping. Nevertheless, the family is retained and routinely used by eurypterid researchers.\n\nEurypterids are most commonly recovered from fossil deposits in Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, Britain and North America. During the Silurian and Devonian periods, when pterygotioids were alive, these regions and continents were part of the continents Baltica (Scandinavia and Eastern Europe), Avalonia (Germany, Britain, parts of eastern North America) and Laurentia (most of eastern continental North America). It is around these continents, and the Rheno-Hercynian Terrane (western and central Europe), that pterygotioids are the most common.Pterygotioid fossils have also been recovered from other parts of the world where fossils of other eurypterid groups are absent, including Australia, Morocco, Libya, Florida, Saudi Arabia, China, Paris, South America, Bohemia and Siberia, which indicates that the group had spread significantly during their 50 million year existence. Pterygotioids appear to have been relatively abundant throughout the Silurian and Devonian world, with unusually (in terms of eurypterids, most groups being absent entirely) large numbers recovered from the ancient continent of Gondwana (composed of Africa, India, South America, Australia and Antarctica).The earliest known pterygotioids, belonging to the genus \"Hughmilleria\", are from the Llandovery epoch of the Silurian and appear around the same time in Laurentia, Scotland and South China. With the group already being widespread at this seemingly early stage in their evolution, it is difficult to pinpoint their exact geographical point of origin. The closest relatives and sister clade of the pterygotioids, the superfamily Adelophthalmoidea, originated in Laurentia. Modern researchers assume that the case would be the same with the pterygotioids, which are thought to have originated within, or in close proximity to, Laurentia.\n\nIt remains unclear whether pterygotioids were capable of crossing oceans on a regular basis or if species recovered outside of Laurentia, Baltica and Avalonia represent isolated occurrences. Pterygotioids were, like the related adelophthalmoids, excellent swimmers which might help explain the intercontinental dispersal patterns and wide-ranging distribution seen in both superfamilies.\n\n"}
{"id": "51063785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51063785", "title": "Robert Mortimer Glover", "text": "Robert Mortimer Glover\n\nDr Robert Mortimer Glover FRSE (1815-1859) was a British physician. In 1838 he co-founded the Paris Medical Society and served as its first Vice President. He won the Medical Society of London’s Fothergill Gold Medal in 1846 for his lecture \"On the Pathology and Treatment of Scrofula\". Some 5 years prior to James Young Simpson’s use of chloroform on human patients in 1842 Glover discovered its anaesthetic qualities on laboratory animals. He is sometimes called \"the true discoverer of chloroform\". In an ironic twist of fate he died from a chloroform overdose.\n\nHe was born in South Shields on 2 November 1815 to William Glover, a merchant, and his wife Catherine. In 1829 he was apprenticed to Thomas J. Aitken TRCSE of 31 Nicolson Street in Edinburgh. He began studying Medicine at Edinburgh University the following year, and was clerked to Prof James Syme at the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. In 1834 he travelled to Geneva in Switzerland to study under Prof Lombard. In 1835 he was elected a member of the Medical Society of Edinburgh. In 1837 he received his licence to practice medicine and travelled to Paris, founding the Paris Medical Society the following year and serving as its first Vice President.\n\nHe returned briefly to Newcastle-upon-Tyne in 1839 before again heading to Edinburgh in 1840. This was to defend his thesis \"On the Physiological and Medical Properties of Bromine and its Compounds\" from which he then received his doctorate (MD). He then returned to Newcastle to stay with his brother William Glover who was also a doctor, operating from 12 Northumberland Street. He joined the Newcastle School of Medicine and Practical Sciences, serving as Chairman of the Department of Chemistry and Head of the Department of Materia Medica and Therapeutics.\n\nIn 1842 he won the Gold Medal of the Harveian Society for his thesis on the properties of chloroform and bromine, including the first description of the anaesthetic effects of chloroform (injected into the neck of a dog). The paper acknowledged the potential effects upon the heart (including potential death). He omitted to spot its potential use during surgery. Glover later wrote to James Young Simpson, decrying Simpson’s failure to credit his own contributions. Simpson answered that he did not follow \"animal experiments\". However, as Simpson was one of the university assessors of Glover’s thesis (which contained the same theories) this claim seems a little hollow. Simpson should have read his thesis even if he claimed he had not. Simpson’s use on humans is generally described as \"the first\" and this is technically correct, if perhaps obfuscating other factors. It equally belittles the contribution of Simpson’s dentist neighbour, Francis Brodie Imlach, who used chloroform in clinical conditions to extract a tooth (perhaps its safest use) on 11 November 1847, and equally deserves more recognition. Glover's findings were confirmed by Dr Robert Halliday Gunning in May 1848, also disproving Simpson's theories on the reasons for the effects of chloroform.\n\nIn 1848 Glover assisted Prof John Fife at Newcastle Infirmary in the autopsy of 15 year old Hannah Greener, who had died under the effects of chloroform whilst having an infected toenail removed. She was the first human death from chloroform.\n\nIn 1850 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh his proposer being Sir Robert Christison.\n\nIn the summer of 1851 the Newcastle School of Medicine was dissolved following various arguments over rent owed to the North Eastern Railway Company and moves to be absorbed by Durham University. Glover and Dawson set up a new school, whilst the majority of teachers ran a rival school under the umbrella of Durham University. The two factions reunited in 1857 after Glover had left Newcastle.\n\nLate in 1854 he appears at the Royal Free Hospital in London under the name of Mortimer Glover, living at 2 Tavistock Place off Russell Square. Here he worked with Frederick James Gant and Thomas Wakley. He was reprimanded for failure to receive his London licence to practice (LRCP) and being slack in clinical duties. He asked for a leave of absence in April 1855. Together with Gant he volunteered to join the medical staff in the Crimea, also attracted by the very large stipend of £1500 per annum.\n\nOn 25 April 1855 they sailed on HMS Candia reaching Scutari on 26 May 1855. Gant and Glover were amongst the five civilian surgeons working at the Barracks at Scutari. Glover caught dysentery here and began taking doses of opium and chloroform to deal with this. Civil surgeons and military surgeons did not mix well and the civil surgeons were dispensed of prior to the end of the war. Gant and Glover left in January 1856 having been of little practical purpose. Gant returned to the Royal Free Hospital but Glover did not, neither did he resign. His name disappears from their records in 1856.\n\nIn July 1856 he at last passed his LRCP.\n\nHis health deteriorated after his time serving in the Crimean War at which point he became addicted to both opium and chloroform. Destitute and unable to work, he took lodgings with a Mr Walter Rochfort a pharmacist, at 1 Kensington Park Gardens in Notting Hill, London.\n\nSadly Glover died from an overdose of chloroform at 1 Kensington Park Road in London, taken on 9 April 1859. His friend Frederick James Gant and Mt Rochfort were with him when he died the following day, 10 April. Setting aside Horace Wells’ chloroform-assisted suicide, he was the first professional to die purely from the use (or abuse) of chloroform.\n\nHis friend Gant performed an autopsy on 11 April, a horrible task on a friend. He found 4 pints (2 litres) of bloody mucus in his guts, smelling of chloroform. He was estimated to have taken a liquid dose of 2 to 5 ounces of pure chloroform (60-150ml). His enlarged liver indicated long-term abuse predating Crimea.\nThomas Wakley oversaw the inquest of his death, acting both as a former friend and coroner of Middlesex at the time. He was also editor of The Lancet at the time. His brother William Glover attended as did Gant, Hopton and a J. Millar. A verdict of \"accidental death by excessive use of chloroform taken as a sedative\" was found, it being concluded not as a deliberate suicide.\n\nHe was buried in Hanwell Cemetery in an unmarked grave on 14 April 1859.\n\n\nIn May 1853, he applied his knowledge of chemistry to a different field, lodging a patent for an arsenic-based paint for the hulls of ships to prevent the growth of barnacles and algae.\n\nOn 10 March 1859, shortly before his death, in a very strange act, Glover married Sarah Hickson a 36 year old seamstress who had escaped from Colney Hatch Asylum (allegedly where the word \"booby hatch\" comes from). This was Britain’s largest mental asylum, and she had been there for seven years for \"violent and dangerous behaviour\". She was also from Newcastle and they had met through her friend Rochfort. As she was described as \"lunatic as himself\" (himself meaning Glover) this attests to Glovers mental state in his final months. They honeymooned for a week at a hotel at 30 Charles Street in Westminster before she was recaptured and escorted back to Colney Hatch.\n"}
{"id": "59022520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59022520", "title": "Said S. Bedair", "text": "Said S. Bedair\n\nSaid Sayed Bedair (; January 4th, 1949 - July 14th, 1989) was an Egyptian scientist in electrical, electronic and microwave engineering and a colonel in the Egyptian army. He received his Bachelor's and Master's degrees from the in Cairo. He got a Ph.D. from the University of Kent in UK. He worked as a researcher at the University of Duisburg-Essen in Germany under the supervision of Prof. . He died on July 14th, 1989 in Alexandria, Egypt in unclear circumstances.\n\nSaid's father is , an Egyptian writer, actor, and director. His stepmother is the singer and actress . He was married and had two sons.\n\nBedair received the Bachelor's degree (with first class honors) from the Military Technical College, Cairo, Egypt, in June 1972. He was the recipient of the first Master's degree to be awarded by the Military Technical College, in July 1976. He worked in the Electronics Laboratories of the University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, England from April 1978 to July 1982, where he received the Ph.D. degree in July 1981. He was a member of the teaching staff of the Military Technical College from June 1972 to December 1982. He joined the Egyptian Air Force in January 1983, where he was in the Department of Research and Technical Developments until July 1987. In August 1987, he became engaged in a research project related to the design and fabrication of various monolithic microwave integrated devices (MMICs) at the Electrical Engineering Department at the University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany. His experiences covered several aspects of electrical and electronic engineering.\n\nDuring his stay in his brother's apartment in Camp Chezar in Alexandria on July 14th, 1989, he fell to his death from the balcony in unclear circumstances. His veins were found cut and a gas leak was detected in the apartment. It is unclear how Said Bedair died. Many Arabic and Egyptian sources claim that the assassination technique was planned to appear as a suicide and that he was assassinated by the Israeli Mosaad. His wife negated the possibility that her husband would commit suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "566975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566975", "title": "Sanofi", "text": "Sanofi\n\nSanofi S.A. is a French multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Paris, France, as of 2013 the world's fifth-largest by prescription sales. The company was formed as Sanofi-Aventis in 2004 by the merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthélabo, which were each the product of several previous mergers. It changed its name to Sanofi in May 2011. The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index.\n\nSanofi engages in the research and development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical drugs principally in the prescription market, but the firm also develops over-the-counter medication. The company covers seven major therapeutic areas: cardiovascular, central nervous system, diabetes, internal medicine, oncology, thrombosis and vaccines (it is the world's largest producer of the latter through its subsidiary Sanofi Pasteur).\n\nSanofi was founded in 1973 as a subsidiary of Elf Aquitaine (a French oil company subsequently acquired by Total), when Elf Aquitaine took control of the Labaz group, a pharmaceutical company. In 1993 Sanofi made a move into the Eastern Europe market by acquiring a controlling interest in Chinoin, a Hungarian drug company that had about US$104 million in sales in 1992. In that same year, Sanofi's made its first significant venture into the U.S., and strengthened its presence in Eastern Europe, by first partnering with Sterling Winthrop and then acquiring the prescription pharmaceuticals business in 1994. Sanofi was incorporated under the laws of France in 1994 as a \"société anonyme\", a form of limited liability company.\n\nSynthélabo was founded in 1970 through the merger of two French pharmaceutical laboratories, Laboratoires Dausse (founded in 1834) and Laboratoires Robert & Carrière (founded in 1899). In 1973, the French cosmetics group L’Oréal acquired the majority of its share capital. In 1991, Synthelabo acquired Laboratories Delalande and Laboratoires Delagrange, and through this deal picked up the product metoclopramide.\n\nSanofi-Synthélabo was formed in 1999 when Sanofi merged with Synthélabo; at the time of the merger Sanofi was the second largest pharmaceutical group in France in terms of sales and Synthélabo was the third largest. The merged company was based in Paris, France.\n\nThe merged companies focused on pharmaceuticals, divesting several businesses soon after the merger, including beauty, diagnostics, animal health and nutrition, custom chemicals, and two medical equipment businesses.\n\nAventis was formed in 1999 when French company Rhône-Poulenc S.A. merged with the German corporation Hoechst Marion Roussel, which itself was formed from the 1995 merger of Hoechst AG with Cassella, Roussel Uclaf and Marion Merrell Dow. The merged company was based in Schiltigheim, near Strasbourg, France.\n\nAt the time of the merger, Rhône-Poulenc's business included the pharmaceutical businesses Rorer, Centeon (blood products), and Pasteur Merieux (vaccines), the plant and animal health businesses Rhône-Poulenc Agro, Rhône-Poulenc Animal Nutrition, and Merial, and a 67 percent share in Rhodia, a speciality chemicals company. Hoechst, one of the companies resulting from the post-WWII split of IG Farben, had seven primary businesses: Hoechst Marion Roussel (pharmaceuticals), AgrEvo (a joint venture with Schering in crop protection agents and pest control products), HR Vet (veterinary products), Dade Behring (diagnostics), Centeon, Celanese (chemicals), and Messer (chemicals). Merieux has been in the business of selling blood products, and In the 1980s during the , Merieux and other companies were involved in scandals related to HIV-contaminated haemophilia blood products that were sold to developing nations.\n\nIn mid 2000 Aventis and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, a US biotechnology company formed to discover new drugs based on the then-new science of genomics, announced that Aventis would make a $250M investment in Millennium and would pay $200M to Millennium in research fees over five years, one of the largest such deals between a big pharmaceutical company and a biotech company at the time.\n\nIn late 2000, in the midst of the recall of Starlink, its genetically modified maize product, Aventis announced that it had determined to sell off Aventis Cropscience, the seed and pesticide business unit it had created from the agriculture businesses of its predecessors. In October 2001, Bayer and Aventis announced that Bayer would acquire the unit for about $6.6 billion, with the unit becoming Bayer CropScience and making Bayer the world's second-largest agrochemical company behind Syngenta.\n\nIn 2003 Aventis entered into a collaboration with Regeneron, a New York biotechnology company, to develop Regeneron's VEGF-inhibiting drug, aflibercept, in the field of cancer, which was then in Phase I clinical trials. Aventis invested $45 million in Regeneron and made an upfront payment of $80 million in cash. Regeneron partnered the drug with Bayer Healthcare in the field of proliferative eye diseases, and under the name Eylea it was approved by the FDA in 2011; after several setbacks in clinical trials, Regeneron and Sanofi got the drug approved in metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with other agents, under the brand name ZALTRAP in 2012.\n\nSanofi-Aventis was formed in 2004 when Sanofi-Synthélabo acquired Aventis. In early 2004, Sanofi-Synthélabo made a hostile takeover bid worth €47.8 billion for Aventis. Initially, Aventis rejected the bid because it felt that the bid offered inferior value based on the company's share value, and the board of Aventis went so far as to enact poison pill provisions and to invite Novartis to enter merger negotiations. The three-month takeover battle concluded when Sanofi-Synthélabo launched a friendly bid of €54.5 billion in place of the previously rejected hostile bid. The French government played a strong role, desiring what it called a \"local solution\", by putting heavy pressure on Sanofi-Synthélabo to raise its bid for Aventis and for Aventis to accept the offer and by rejecting Aventis' poison pill proposal. One of the largest risks in the deal for both sides, was the fate of the patents protecting Clopidogrel (Plavix) which was one of the top-selling drugs in the world at the time and the major source of Sanofi's revenue.\n\nIn 2006, Iraqis infected with HIV sued Sanofi and Baxter due to HIV-contaminated haemophilia blood products sold by Merieux in the 1980s. In 2006 the US patents on clopidogrel (Plavix) were challenged when a Canadian generics company, Apotex, filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application under the Hatch-Waxman Act, received FDA approval, and started marketing a generic clopidogrel. While Sanofi-Aventis and its partner on the drug, Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), were able to get an injunction to stop Apotex from selling the drug, the case became complicated when settlement negotiations fell apart twice - the second time due to an oral agreement made by BMS CEO Peter Dolan that BMS failed to disclose to the Federal Trade Commission during the review of the settlement agreement to ensure that it did not violate antitrust law. When Apotex disclosed the oral agreement to the FTC, the FTC launched an investigation that led to Dolan being fired by BMS. Apotex finally lost on the patent litigation issues after its third appeal was decided in favor of BMS/Sanofi in November 2011; Apotex had to pay ~$442 million in damages and ~$108 million in interest for infringing the patent, which it paid in full by February 2012. Apotex also sued BMS and Sanofi for $3.4 billion for allegedly breaching the settlement agreement, and Apotex lost a jury trial in March 2013.\n\nIn 2007 Sanofi-Aventis expanded on Aventis' prior relationship with Regeneron; in the new deal Sanofi-Aventis agreed to pay Regeneron $100 million each year for five years, under which Regeneron would use its monoclonal antibody discovery platform to create new biopharmaceuticals, which Sanofi-Aventis gained the exclusive right to co-develop. In 2009 the companies expanded the deal to $160 million per year and extended it through 2017. As of 2009 the collaboration had four antibodies in clinical development and had filed an IND for a fifth. Two were against undisclosed targets, one targeted the interleukin-6 receptor as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, another targeted nerve growth factor for the treatment of pain, and another targeted delta-like ligand 4 as a treatment of cancer.\n\nBetween 2008, when Chris Viebacher was hired as CEO, and 2010, the company spent more than $17 billion in mergers and acquisitions to strengthen its consumer healthcare and generics platforms, especially in emerging markets, in the face of looming patent cliffs and the growth of the consumer healthcare segment. In September, Zentiva was acquired for €1.8 billion, expanding the group's eastern European markets presence.\n\nIn 2009, Medley Farma, the third largest pharmaceutical company in Brazil and a leading generics company in that country, was acquired for about $635 million. Sanofi outbid Teva Pharmaceuticals. The deal was approved by Brazil's antitrust authorities in May 2010. Later that year, Indian vaccine manufacturer Shantha Biotechnics was acquired for $784 million. In October Sanofi-Aventis announced that it would lay off about 1,700 US employees (about 25% of its US workforce) due to restructuring triggered by growing generic competition and other factors, and that the company would focus its US operations on diabetes, atrial fibrillation and oncology.\n\nIn 2010 U.S. consumer healthcare company Chattem, Inc. was acquired for around $1.9 billion. In the same year, Nepentes Pharma was acquired for $130 million and BMP Sunstone Corporation for $520.6 million.\n\nThe company dropped the -Aventis suffix of its name on 6 May 2011 after receiving approval at its annual general meeting. The reason given by the company for the change was to make its name easier to pronounce in countries such as China.\n\nIn 2011 Genzyme Corporation was acquired for around $20.1 billion. This biotechnology company headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts specializes in the treatment of orphan diseases, renal diseases, endocrinology, oncology and biosurgery.\n\nIn January 2012, Sanofi co-invested in the $125 million Series A financing of Warp Drive Bio. Sanofi sought support for its internal cancer research program and also took on an obligation to acquire Warp Drive if certain milestones were met.\n\nIn January 2014, Genzyme and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, a US biotechnology company developing RNAi therapeutics, announced that Genyzme would invest $700 million in Alnylam. Under the deal, Genzyme obtained further rights to patisiran, an RNAi treatment for transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis - a condition that can result in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy and familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy - and obtained rights to other compounds in Alnylam's pipeline.\n\nIn March 2014 Sanofi joined the bidding for Merck & Co.’s over-the-counter health-products unit, the maker of Coppertone sunblock and Claritin allergy medicine; bids were expected to range between $10 billion and $12 billion.\n\nIn October 2014, Sanofi's directors fired US-resident chief executive Chris Viehbacher, blaming his alleged lack of communication with the board and poor execution of his strategy. Board chairperson Serge Weinberg took over as interim CEO until 2 April 2015 when Bayer Healthcare board chairperson Olivier Brandicourt (appointed by Sanofi on 19 February 2015) took over. Before Brandicourt even started his new job, French government ministers Stéphane Le Foll and Ségolène Royal attacked the $4.5 million golden handshake he was getting from Sanofi - and his pay of about $4.7 million a year. Further, in 2014, the business took a 66% stake in Globalpharma, Dubai-based generics manufacturer.\n\nIn July 2015, Genzyme announced it would acquire the rare cancer drug Caprelsa (vandetanib) from AstraZeneca for up to $300 million. In the same month In July 2015, the company announced a new global collaboration with Regeneron to discover, develop, and commercialise new immuno-oncology drugs, which could generate more than $2 billion for Regeneron, with $640 million upfront, $750 million for proof of concept data and $650 million from the development of REGN2810.\n\nIn June 2016, the company announced it had struck an asset-swap deal with Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi would sell its Merial animal health division (valuing it at €11.4 billion), whilst acquiring Boehringers consumer health division (valuing it at €6.7 billion) and €4.7 billion in cash. The deal means Sanofi is now one of the global consumer healthcare leaders by market share.\n\nIn July 2017, the company announced its intention to acquire Protein Sciences, a privately held, Connecticut-based vaccines biotechnology company, for $650 million and with up to $100 million in milestone achievements.\n\nIn January 2018, Sanofi announced that it would acquire Bioverativ for $11.6 billion and days later announced it would acquire Ablynx for €3.9 billion ($4.8 billion).\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\n\nProduct recall and effects: The Epinephrine auto-injection devices made by Sanofi SA currently on the market in the U.S. and Canada were voluntarily recalled on 28 October 2015. The reason stated by Sanofi was that the products have been found to potentially have inaccurate dosage delivery, which may include failure to deliver drug.\n\nSanofi US also added the following warning: If a patient experiencing a serious allergic reaction (i.e., anaphylaxis) did not receive the intended dose, there could be significant health consequences, including death because anaphylaxis is a potentially life‑threatening condition.\n\nIn its news release on 28 October 2015, Sanofi Canada stated that it was \"actively working with suppliers of alternative epinephrine auto-injectors to have a full stock available in Canada as soon as possible. Canadian customers were asked to immediately return the Allerject product to their local pharmacy to obtain an alternate epinephrine auto-injector.\"\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration also filed a news release confirming that the recall involves all Auvi-Q currently on the market in the U.S. The FDA release went on to provide information for consumers re: exchanging the device for another brand of product, also provided on the Auivi-Q web site. Sanofi US will provide reimbursement for out of pocket costs incurred for the purchase of new, alternate epinephrine auto-injectors with proof of purchase.\n\nThe alternate products expected to most commonly replace the recalled Sanofi devices are the EpiPens made by Mylan in the US and by Pfizer—under license from Mylan—in Canada. Mylan already had an 85% market share of the auto-injectors in the US in the first half of 2015. Maylan was expected to benefit from the recall by its competitor Sanofi, according to a report published in the Fierce Pharma newsletter of 2 November 2015: \"...it is very hard to see Auvi-Q returning to the market, as it will need to be redesigned and face uphill battle to recapture patient trust after the recall,\" Bernstein analyst Ronny Gal wrote in a note to clients. Gal also believes that the company will eventually have 95% of the Epinephrine auto-injector market, according to another Fierce Pharma report on 3 November 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe company also produces a broad range of over-the-counter products, among them Allegra, IcyHot for muscle pain, Gold Bond for skin irritation, and Selsun Blue dandruff shampoo. These brands were acquired in 2010 when Sanofi-Aventis purchased Chattem.\n\nAs of the summer of 2013, Sanofi was in a race with Amgen and Pfizer to win approval for a drug that inhibits PCSK9, a protein that slows the clearance of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol - the form of cholesterol that leads to heart attacks. Sanofi's drug was discovered by Regeneron and is called alirocumab. An FDA warning in March 2014 about possible cognitive adverse effects of PCSK9 inhibition threw the competition into disarray, as the FDA asked companies to include neurocognitive testing into their Phase III clinical trials.\n\nIn fall 2013 Sanofi announced that another candidate from its collaboration with Regeneron, the monoclonal antibody against the interleukin 6 receptor, sarilumab, had better efficacy than placebo in its first Phase III trial for rheumatoid arthritis.\n\n\nAs of 31 December 2013:\n\nIn January 2012, Sanofi moved its head office location to 54, Rue La Boétie in the 8th arrondissement of Paris. This former mansion designed by architect René-Patouillard had previously been the head office of Alcatel-Lucent.\n\nSanofi's previous head office was located in the 13th arrondissement of Paris, 174 Avenue de France. The architecture of the head office is of the predominant style of the area surrounding the François Mitterrand Library. After Sanofi and Aventis merged, the employees at the former Aventis head office in Schiltigheim, Alsace moved to Paris.\n\nIn addition to internal research and development activities Sanofi is also involved in publicly funded collaborative research projects, with other industrial and academic partners. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox project The company is expanding its activities in joint research projects within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.\n\nIn June 2010, Sanofi and the Charite University of Berlin signed a cooperation agreement for the research and development of medicines and therapies.\n\nOn 25 October 2012, Sanofi said its earnings for the third quarter slumped as generic competitors ate into profits of its Eloxatin cancer treatment.\n\nIn 2005 Sanofi Pasteur, vaccines division of Sanofi Group, was awarded a $97 Million HHS contract in 2005.\n\nIn the fall of 2011 a Sanofi Pasteur plant flooded, causing it problems with mold. The facility, located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, produced BCG vaccine products, made with the Glaxo 1077 strain, such as a tuberculosis vaccine ImmuCYST, a BCG Immunotherapeutic -a bladder cancer drug. By April 2012 the FDA had found dozens of documented problems with sterility at the plant including mold, nesting birds and rusted electrical conduits. The resulting closure of the plant for over two years resulting in shortages of bladder cancer and tuberculosis vaccines. The Toronto Sanofi plant On 29 October 2014 Health Canada gave the permission for Sanofi to resume production of BCG.\n\nSanofi is a full member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA).\n\nSanofi's vaccine subsidiary, Sanofi Pasteur, is a member of EuropaBio.\n\nThe Aventis Foundation, a German charitable trust, was established in 1996 as the Hoechst Foundation with an endowment of €50 million. In 2000, the foundation was renamed the Aventis Foundation. Its aim is to promote music, theater, art, literature, higher education and healthcare research.\n\n"}
{"id": "38349107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38349107", "title": "Space farming", "text": "Space farming\n\nSpace farming refers to the cultivation of crops for food and other materials in space or on off-Earth celestial objects – equivalent to agriculture on Earth.\n\nFarming on celestial bodies, such as the Moon or Mars, shares many similarities with farming on a space station or space colony. But, depending on the size of the celestial body, may lack the complexity of microgravity found in the latter. Each environment would have differences in the availability of inputs to the space agriculture process: inorganic material needed for plant growth, soil media, insolation, relative availability of carbon dioxide, nitrogen and oxygen, and so forth.\n\nSupply of food to space stations and other long duration missions is heavy and staggeringly expensive. One astronaut on the International Space Station requires approximately \"1.8 kilograms of food and packaging per day\". For a long-term mission, such as a four-man crew, three year Martian mission, this number can grow to as much as 24,000 pounds.\n\nDue to the cost of resupply and the impracticality of resupplying interplanetary missions the prospect of growing food inflight is incredibly appealing. The existence of a space farm would aid the creation of a sustainable environment, as plants can be used to recycle wastewater, generate oxygen, continuously purify the air and recycle faeces on the space station or spaceship. Just 10m² of crops produces 25% of the daily requirements of 1 person, or about 180-210grams of oxygen.<ref name=\"Kijk magazine 9/2015\">Kijk magazine 9/2015</ref> This essentially allows the space farm to turn the spaceship into an artificial ecosystem with a hydrological cycle and nutrient recycling.\n\nIn addition to maintaining a shelf-life and reducing total mass, the ability to grow food in space would help reduce the vitamin gap in astronaut's diets and provide fresh food with improved taste and texture. Currently, much of the food supplied to astronauts is heat treated or freeze dried. Both of these methods, for the most part, retain the properties of the food pre-treatment. However, vitamin degradation during storage can occur. A 2009 study noted significant decreases in vitamins A, C and K as well as folic acid and thiamin can occur in as little as one year of storage. A mission to Mars could require food storage for as long as five years, thus a new source of these vitamins would be required.\n\nSupply of foodstuffs to others is likely to be a major part of early off-Earth settlements. Food production is a non-trivial task and is likely to be one of the most labor-intensive, and vital, tasks of early colonists. Among others, NASA is researching how to accomplish space farming.\n\nA variety of technical challenges will face colonists who attempt to do off-Earth agriculture. These include the effect of reduced gravity, lighting, and pressure as well as increased radiation. Though greenhouses may solve many of the problems presented in space, their construction would come with their own set of technical challenges.\n\nPlants grown inflight experience a microgravity environment, and plants grown on the surface of Mars experience approximately 1/3 the gravity that earth plants do. However, so long as plants are provided with directional light, those grown in low gravity environments still experienced normal growth. Normal growth is classified as opposite root and shoot growth direction. This being said many plants grown in a space flight environment have been significantly smaller than those grown on earth’s surface and grew at a slower rate.\n\nIn addition to varying effects of gravity, unless protected, plants grown on the surface of Mars will be exposed to much higher levels of radiation than on Earth. Exposure to high levels of radiation can damage plant DNA. This occurs as highly reactive hydroxyl radicals target DNA. DNA degradation has a direct effect on plant germination, growth and reproduction. Ionizing radiation also has an effect on PSII function and may cause a loss of function and generation of radicals responsible for photo-oxidation. The intensity of these effects vary from species to species.\n\nThe low-pressure environment of the surface of Mars has also been a cause for concern. Hypobaric conditions can affect net photosynthesis and evapotranspiration rates. However, a 2006 study suggests maintaining elevated CO concentrations can mitigate the effects of hypobaric conditions as low as 10 kPa to achieve normal plant growth.\n\nMartian soil contains a majority of the minerals needed for plant growth except for reactive nitrogen, which is a product of mineralization of organic matter. Since there is a lack of organic matter on the surface of mars, there is a lack of this component. Reactive nitrogen is a required constituent of soil used for plant growth, and it is possible that nitrogen fixing species, such as bacteria, could aide in the lack of reactive nitrogen series. However, a 2014 study suggested that plants were able to germinate and survive a period of 50 days on a Martian and lunar soil by using simulant soils. This being said, only one of their four experimented species did well enough to achieve full flower formation and more work would need to be done to achieve complete growth.\n\n\nFollowing crops have been considered for use in space farms:\npotatoes, grains, rice, beans, tomatoes, paprika, lettuce, cabbage, strawberry, onions and peppers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "997893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=997893", "title": "Swarm (simulation)", "text": "Swarm (simulation)\n\nSwarm is the name of an open-source agent-based modeling simulation package, useful for simulating the interaction of agents (social or biological) and their emergent collective behaviour. Swarm was initially developed at the Santa Fe Institute in the mid-1990s, and since 1999 has been maintained by the non-profit Swarm Development Group. Also known as the Swarm Simulation System, it is available for free and use, covered by the GNU General Public License.\n\nEarly development work on Swarm was completed by Chris Langton (SFI), Roger Burkhart (John Deere), Nelson Minar (SFI), Manor Askenazi (SFI), Glen Ropella (SFI), Marcus Daniels (SFI), and Alex Lancaster (SFI). Since that time, many hundreds of people around the world have contributed to the continued open source development of the suite of Swarm ABM tools.\n\nAgent-based modeling seeks to replicate these complexities and adaptations in computational environments where these interactive emergent behaviors can be analyzed multi-dimensionally. By defining and assigning agencies reflective of prescribed behaviors, known or estimated, to active software agents in a computer simulation, scientists can approximate experimental results not possible in natural temporal frameworks.\n\nSwarm and other agent-based modeling platforms afford scientists the opportunity to conduct and visualize experiments in these synthetic macro and microenvironments for testing scientific theories, natural data sets, and other analyses while free of pressing constraints like time, volume, hazards, or many other parameters.\n\nAgent-based models have been used since the mid-1990s to solve a variety of business and technology problems. Examples of applications include:\nIn these and other applications, the system of interest is simulated by capturing the behavior of individual agents and their interconnections. Agent-based modeling tools can be used to test how changes in individual behaviors will affect the overall, emergent system behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41162671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41162671", "title": "The 6th Letter", "text": "The 6th Letter\n\nKevon André Samuels (born August 13, 1992), better known by his stage name The 6th Letter, is a Canadian hip hop recording artist from Toronto. He is a member of the hip hop collective Bakers Club.\n\nKevon was born on August 13, 1992 in Toronto, Ontario. He spent an early portion of his life traveling back and forth between the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, New York City where he would stay with his father (Paul McLawrence) and Downtown Toronto where he would stay with his mother (Claudette Samuels). He attended St. Mary's Catholic Secondary School in Toronto before dropping out in 2010 to pursue a career in music. Kevon adopted the moniker \"The 6th Letter\" from the nickname \"Freshie\" which was given to him in high school.\n\nIn 2010, 6th released his debut mixtape titled \"What The F\". The mixtape saw success and eventually captured the attention of Cinematic Music Group & Smokers Club founder/CEO, Jonny Shipes who granted 6th an opening slot on the Smokers Club Tour's first show in Toronto, Ontario on October 1, 2010. Shipes and The Smokers Club later hosted 6th's sophomore release, Go Green in April 2011.\n\nSince the release of \"Go Green\", 6th has performed with popular artists such as Method Man, Big K.R.I.T., Curren$y, Mac Miller, Smoke DZA, ASAP Rocky, Raekwon, Juicy J, Machine Gun Kelly, Theophilus London, Styles P, Ghostface Killah, Casey Veggies, Action Bronson, Chance The Rapper, Redman, Royce Da 5'9. On November 27, 2013 a track from Kevon's upcoming third mixtape titled \"Chain Smokin\" premiered on NOISEY. 6th's third mixtape, \"NorthernPlayalisticGetHighMuzik\" was scheduled to be released in early 2014. The mixtape will be entirely produced by Raz Fresco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2356365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2356365", "title": "The Stuff", "text": "The Stuff\n\nThe Stuff (also known as Larry Cohen's The Stuff) is a 1985 American satirical science fiction horror film written, produced, and directed by Larry Cohen and starring Michael Moriarty, Garrett Morris, Andrea Marcovicci, and Paul Sorvino. It was also the last film of noted actor Alexander Scourby.\n\nSeveral railroad workers discover a yogurt-like white substance bubbling out of the ground. These workers find it to be sweet and addictive. Later, the substance, marketed as \"The Stuff,\" is being sold to the general public in containers like ice cream. It is marketed as having no calories and as being sweet, creamy, and filling. The Stuff quickly becomes a nationwide craze and drastically hurts the sales of ice cream.\n\nFormer FBI agent turned industrial saboteur David \"Mo\" Rutherford is hired by the leaders of the suffering ice cream industry, as well as junk food mogul Charles W. \"Chocolate Chip Charlie\" Hobbs, to find out exactly what The Stuff is and destroy it.\n\nUnder their commissions, Rutherford conducts an investigation into The Stuff. His efforts reveal, to his initial horror, that the craze for the dessert is far deadlier than anyone had believed: The Stuff is actually a living, parasitic, and possibly sentient organism that gradually takes over the brain; it then mutates those who eat it into bizarre zombie-like creatures, before consuming them from the inside and leaving them literal empty shells of their former selves.\n\nA young boy named Jason also discovers The Stuff is alive and sees how it affects his family and how they are adamantly against his beliefs on The Stuff. He gets arrested for vandalizing a supermarket display of The Stuff, attracting the attention of Rutherford, who comes to his aid. Rutherford also manages to charm Nicole, an advertising executive who becomes his partner and lover when she sees the effect of The Stuff. The trio infiltrates the distribution operation, which is actually an organized corporate effort to spread The Stuff on the basis of eliminating world hunger, and destroy the lake of The Stuff with explosives. Meanwhile, United States Army Col. Malcolm Grommett Spears, a retired right-wing soldier, leads a militia in battling the zombies and transmitting a civil defense message for Americans to break their addiction to The Stuff by destroying it with fire. The Stuff addiction is ended, and Rutherford, Nicole, Jason, and Col. Spears are hailed as national heroes.\n\nMo then visits the head of The Stuff Company, a man named Mr. Fletcher. He tells Mo that the destruction of the mine has not hurt his business, since The Stuff seeps out from many places in the ground, but Mo vows to find those places and get rid of them all. Another man, Mr. Vickers, brings in Mr. Evans, the ice cream mogul with whom he is now working--and who had originally hired Mo to find out about what The Stuff was. They tell him they have come up with a new product that they call \"The Taste,\" which is a mix of 88% ice cream and 12% The Stuff, supposedly enough to make people crave more without it taking over their minds or killing them. However, Mo then brings in Jason, who is carrying a box, and then holds the two moguls at gunpoint. The box is full of pint containers of The Stuff, and Mo forces both to eat them all as punishment for all the lives lost to it, and for their greed. As they do, Rutherford asks pointedly, \"Are \"you\" eating \"it...\"or is it eating YOU?\" When they finish, Mo and Jason leave them to the approaching police.\n\nThe film ends with smugglers selling The Stuff on the black market, having one of the smugglers tasting The Stuff, and revealing that samples of The Stuff still exist. In a post-credits scene, a woman in a bathroom says \"Enough is never enough\" while holding The Stuff.\n\nThe script was an original story by Cohen. He said, \"My main inspiration was the consumerism and corporate greed found in our country and the damaging products that were being sold. I was constantly reading in the newspapers about various goods and materials being recalled because they were harming people. For example, you had foods being pulled off the market because they were hazardous to people’s health.\"\n\nCohen was particularly influenced by \"the sheer volume of junk food we consume every day. We continue to eat these foods despite the fact some of them are killing us. That’s when I started thinking that The Stuff could be an imaginary product— in this case an ice cream dessert— that is being consumed by millions and is doing irreparable damage to humanity. Everybody is gobbling down this yummy food, so how can it possibly be wrong for us?\"\n\nCohen wanted to cast Arsenio Hall as \"Chocolate Chip Charlie\" W. Hobbs, since he thought he was not only a good actor but also a rising star. The executives at New World Pictures, however, wanted someone more recognizable and thus cast Garrett Morris instead.\n\nCohen says the film was significantly trimmed in post production:\nWe did lose a few funny scenes that I wanted to keep. When I showed New World my original cut, they felt strongly that the film should move a lot faster. I realized that I’d made a picture that was a little too dense and sophisticated, so we increased the pacing. I know that along with some of the commercials, we did lose a romantic scene between Moriarty and Andrea that took place in a hotel room. It was perhaps a wise decision to cut some of those scenes out, because I don’t think they played well in the totality of the film. The story needed to drive forward at certain points and not be slowed down with extraneous material, although it can be painful cutting scenes out that you like.\n\nCohen says that the New World Pictures Company was slightly unhappy with the resulting movie:\nNew World wanted a straight-up horror film, and, in retrospect, \"The Stuff\" had more comedic aspects to it than the executives were perhaps expecting. They thought they were going to get a flat-out horror movie with a lot of gore and scares, and we made a film that was more satirical and had a lot of humour and commentary in it. We played the characters for laughs in many cases and that greatly diluted the horror element. It made \"The Stuff\" more of what I would consider “A Larry Cohen Movie” but less of a conventional, commercial horror film. I think New World were disappointed that The Stuff wasn’t more horrific and nasty--more of a balls-out monster movie. I knew before the film even hit theaters \"The Stuff\" would appeal to a different audience than the one we were trying to get.\n\"The Stuff\" was given a limited theatrical release in the United States by New World Pictures in June 1985.\n\nThe film was not a hit, and Cohen feels that it was hurt by the fact it was sold as a horror film when it was basically a satirical comedy. It received positive reviews from critics; on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 70% rating based on 10 reviews.\n\nCohen says \"the day \"The Stuff\" opened in New York a hurricane hit and the newspapers were not delivered. Of course, we had received all these great reviews, but it didn’t matter because nobody ever got to read a single word of them.\"\n\nThe film was released on VHS by New World Home Video. It was eventually released on DVD by Anchor Bay Entertainment in 2000. This version is currently out of print.\n\nOn September 11, 2011, Image Entertainment released \"The Stuff\" under its \"Midnight Madness Series\" banner on DVD. It is a direct port of the Anchor Bay Entertainment DVD release.\n\nA Special Edition Blu-ray was released in the United Kingdom on March 10, 2013 by Arrow Films.\n\nThe company Effects Associated were hired by Cohen to supply some of the special effects shots. When the shots were delivered, Cohen was not satisfied with shots of exploding factory buildings and paid only half (c. $8,000) of the agreed price for those shots. Effects Associated brought an action against Cohen in court to claim full compensation, but also because the parties had no written copyright agreement regarding the use of the shots. The trial court decided in favor of Cohen, ruling that there was an \"implied agreement\" for the non-exclusive use of the shots in the film. The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit confirmed the ruling, and confirmed that Effects Associated still retained the copyright for use outside of \"The Stuff\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11724548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11724548", "title": "Timeline of extinctions in the Holocene", "text": "Timeline of extinctions in the Holocene\n\nThis timeline of extinctions is an historical account of species that have become extinct during the time that modern humans have occupied the earth.\n\nThe following is a selective list made by sampling a very small proportion, mostly mammals, of some of the well-known extinct species in the recent history. For a more elaborate list see Lists of extinct animals. The vast majority of extinctions, though, are thought to be undocumented. According to the species-area theory and based on upper-bound estimating, the present rate of extinction may be up to 140,000 species per year. See Holocene extinction for more information.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11666327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11666327", "title": "Titus Manlius Torquatus (consul 299 BC)", "text": "Titus Manlius Torquatus (consul 299 BC)\n\nTitus Manlius T.f. Torquatus (died 299 BC) was a patrician Roman Republican consul for 299 BC, elected along with a plebeian co-consul Marcus Fulvius Cn.f. Paetinus.\n\nAccording to Livy, Titus Manlius died of a fall from his horse, while preparing his troops to march into Etruria\n\nThe Manlii were one of the oldest and most distinguished patrician gens in the Roman Republic. One Gnaeus Manlius Cincinnatus had been chosen consul in 480 BC, four years after the first Fabius had become consul. Prominent consuls in the family included the early 4th century consul Marcus Manlius T.f. Capitolinus (whose career was marked by his \"gens\" banning the use of the \"praenomen\" \"Marcus\" thereafter), and the 4th century consul Titus Manlius L.f. Imperiosus Torquatus. Titus was descended from this last consul, notable not only for his military successes but also for executing his own son for an impetuous breach of military discipline. It is not clear if the consuls Aulus Manlius Titus f. Torquatus Atticus, consul in 244 BC and 241 BC, and Titus Manlius Torquatus, consul in 235 BC and 224 BC and censor 231 BC, were his sons or other relatives.\n"}
{"id": "9214162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9214162", "title": "Turritopsis dohrnii", "text": "Turritopsis dohrnii\n\nTurritopsis dohrnii, the immortal jellyfish, is a species of small, biologically immortal jellyfish found in the Mediterranean Sea and in the waters of Japan. It is one of the few known cases of animals capable of reverting completely to a sexually immature, colonial stage after having reached sexual maturity as a solitary individual. Others include the jellyfish \"\" and \"Aurelia\" sp.1.\n\nLike most other hydrozoans, \"T. dohrnii\" begin their life as free-swimming tiny larvae known as planula. As a planula settles down, it gives rise to a colony of polyps that are attached to the sea-floor. All the polyps and jellyfish arising from a single planula are genetically identical clones. The polyps form into an extensively branched form, which is not commonly seen in most jellyfish. Jellyfish, also known as medusae, then bud off these polyps and continue their life in a free-swimming form, eventually becoming sexually mature. When sexually mature they have been known to prey on other jellyfish species at a rapid pace. If a \"T. dohrnii\" jellyfish is exposed to environmental stress or physical assault, or is sick or old, it can revert to the polyp stage, forming a new polyp colony. It does this through the cell development process of transdifferentiation, which alters the differentiated state of the cells and transforms them into new types of cells.\n\nTheoretically, this process can go on indefinitely, effectively rendering the jellyfish biologically immortal, although in practice individuals can still die. In nature, most \"Turritopsis\" are likely to succumb to predation or disease in the medusa stage, without reverting to the polyp form.\n\nThe capability of biological immortality with no maximum lifespan makes \"T. dohrnii\" an important target of basic biological, aging and pharmaceutical research.\n\nThe \"immortal jellyfish\" was formerly classified as \"T. nutricula\".\n\nThe medusa of \"Turritopsis dohrnii\" is bell-shaped, with a maximum diameter of about and is about as tall as it is wide. The jelly in the walls of the bell is uniformly thin, except for some thickening at the apex. The relatively large stomach is bright red and has a cruciform shape in cross section. Young specimens 1 mm in diameter have only eight tentacles evenly spaced out along the edge, whereas adult specimens have 80–90 tentacles. The medusa (jellyfish) is free-living in the plankton. Dense nerve net cells are also present in the epidermis in the cap. They form a large ring-like structure above the radial cannal which is commonly presented in cnidarians.\n\n\"Turritopsis dohrnii\" also has a bottom-living polyp form, or hydroid, which consists of stolons that run along the substrate, and upright branches with feeding polyps that can produce medusa buds. These polyps develop over a few days into tiny 1 mm medusae, which are liberated and swim free from the parent hydroid colony.\n\nImages of both the medusa and polyp of the closely related species \"Turritopsis rubra\" from New Zealand can be found online. Until a recent genetic study, it was thought that \"Turritopsis rubra\" and \"Turritopsis nutricula\" were the same. It is not known whether or not \"T. rubra\" medusae can also transform back into polyps.\n\n\"Turritopsis\" is believed to have originated in the Pacific but has spread all over the world through trans-Arctic migrations, and has speciated into several populations that are easy to distinguish morphologically, but whose species distinctions have recently been verified by a study and comparison of mitochondrial ribosomal gene sequences. \"Turritopsis\" are found in temperate to tropical regions in all of the world's oceans. \"Turritopsis\" is believed to be spreading across the world through ballast water discharge. Unlike other species invasions which caused serious economic and ecological consequences, T. dohrnii’s invasion around the world was unnoticed due to their tiny size and innocuity. \"We are looking at a worldwide silent invasion\", said Smithsonian Tropical Marine Institute scientist Dr. Maria Miglietta.\n\nThe eggs develop in gonads of female medusae, which are located in the walls of the manubrium (stomach). Mature eggs are presumably spawned and fertilized in the sea by sperm produced and released by male medusae, as is the case for most hydromedusae, although the related species \"Turritopsis rubra\" seems to retain fertilized eggs until the planula stage. Fertilized eggs develop into planula larvae, which settle onto the sea-floor (or even the rich marine communities that live on floating docks), and develop into polyp colonies (hydroids). The hydroids bud new jellyfishes, which are released at about one millimetre in size and then grow and feed in the plankton, becoming sexually mature after a few weeks (the exact duration depends on the ocean temperature; at it is 25 to 30 days and at it is 18 to 22 days). Medusae of \"T. dohrnii\" are able to survive between 14 °C and 25 °C.\n\nMost jellyfish species have a relatively fixed life-span, which varies by species from hours to many months (long-lived mature jellyfish spawn every day or night; the time is also fairly fixed and species-specific). The medusa of \"Turritopsis dohrnii\" is the only form known to have developed the ability to return to a polyp state, by a specific transformation process that requires the presence of certain cell types (tissue from both the jellyfish bell surface and the circulatory canal system).\n\nCareful laboratory experiments have revealed that all stages of the medusae, from newly released to fully mature individuals, can transform back into polyps under the conditions of starvation, sudden temperature change, reduction of salinity and artificial damage of the bell with forceps or scissor. The transforming medusa is characterized first by deterioration of the bell, mesoglea and tentacles. All immature medusa (with 12 tentacles at most) then turned into a cyst-like stage and then transformed into stolons and polyps. However, about 20%-40% of mature medusa went into stolons and polyps stage without passing cyst-like stage. Polyps were formed after 2 days since stolons had developed and fed on food. Polyps further multiply by growing additional stolons, branches and then polyps, to form colonial hydroids. In the experiment, they would eventually transform into stolons and polyps and begin their lives once again even without suffering from environment changes or injury. Diagram of the transformation procedure can be found at the further reading.\n\nThis ability to reverse the biotic cycle (in response to adverse conditions) is unique in the animal kingdom, and allows the jellyfish to bypass death, rendering \"Turritopsis dohrnii\" potentially biologically immortal. The process has not been observed in their natural habitat, in part because the process is quite rapid, and because field observations at the right moment are unlikely. Regardless, most individual medusae are likely to fall victim to the general hazards of life as plankton, including being eaten by predators or succumbing to disease.\n\nThe species' cell development method of transdifferentiation has inspired scientists to find a way to make stem cells using this process for renewing damaged or dead tissue in humans.\n\nGenomic analyses such as sequence analysis on mRNA or mitochondria DNA have been employed to investigate its lifecycle. mRNA analysis of each life stage showed that a stage-specific gene in the medusae stage is expressed tenfold more than in other stages. This gene is relative to a Wnt signal that can induce a regeneration process upon injury.\n\nAnalysis of nucleotide sequence homologs and protein homologs identified \"Nemopsis bachei\" as the species' closest relative. None of the closely related species show biological immortality.\n\nKeeping \"T. dohrnii\" in captivity is quite difficult. Currently only one scientist, Shin Kubota from Kyoto University, has managed to sustain a group of these jellyfish for a prolonged period of time. The plankton must be inspected daily to ensure that they have properly digested the Artemia cysts they are being fed. \nKubota reported that during a two-year period, his colony rebirthed itself 11 times. Kubota regularly appears on Japanese television to talk about his immortal jellyfish and has recorded several songs about them.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32356", "title": "Vexatious litigation", "text": "Vexatious litigation\n\nVexatious litigation is legal action which is brought, regardless of its merits, solely to harass or subdue an adversary. It may take the form of a primary frivolous lawsuit or may be the repetitive, burdensome, and unwarranted filing of meritless motions in a matter which is otherwise a meritorious cause of action. Filing vexatious litigation is considered an abuse of the judicial process and may result in sanctions against the offender.\n\nA single action, even a frivolous one, is usually not enough to raise a litigant to the level of being declared vexatious. Rather, a pattern of frivolous legal actions is typically required to rise to the level of vexatious. Repeated and severe instances by a single lawyer or firm can result in eventual disbarment.\n\nSome jurisdictions have a list of vexatious litigants: people who have repeatedly abused the legal system. Because lawyers could be disbarred for participating in this abuse of the legal process, vexatious litigants are often unable to retain legal counsel, and such litigants therefore represent themselves in court. Those on the vexatious litigant list are usually either forbidden from any further legal action, or are required to obtain prior permission from a senior judge before taking any legal action. The process by which a person is added to the list varies among jurisdictions. In liberal democratic jurisdictions, declaring someone a vexatious litigant is considered to be a serious measure and rarely occurs, as judges and officials are reluctant to curtail a person's access to the courts.\nThese legal actions occur in some countries of the former British Empire, where the Common Law System still remains: Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, UK, and US, which are specified below. The Civil (Codified/Continental) Law does not provide this kind of gate to limit equal access of citizens to the justice system.\n\nThe concept of vexatious litigation entered into law in 1896 with the Vexatious Actions Act, enacted in England and soon extended to Scotland and Ireland. This was primarily a response to the actions of Alexander Chaffers, a solicitor who filed numerous actions against leading members of Victorian society. When costs were awarded against him, he failed to pay.\n\nThe first such law outside Britain, the Supreme Court Act, 1927 was passed in Australia nearly thirty years later. This too was prompted by the behaviour of an individual, Rupert Millane. The first Vexatious Litigant law in the United States was enacted in California in 1963. By 2007 five US states had passed similar legislation: California, Florida, Hawaii, Ohio, and Texas.\n\nThe High Court of Australia has declared only three people to be vexatious litigants in its century-old existence, whereas the Australian Federal Court system, established in 1976, has at least 36 names on its barred registry.\n\nIn New South Wales, there are currently 35 people on the New South Wales Supreme Court's vexatious litigants register.\n\nIn Queensland, the process for having someone declared a vexatious litigant is governed by the \"Vexatious Proceedings Act 2005\", which supplanted an earlier Act. Importantly, the Act defines a vexatious proceeding to include a proceeding brought without merit or any prospect of success, with the consequence that it is not necessary to prove the existence of any improper motive in order to obtain relief under the Act.\n\nIn South Australia, vexatious litigation laws were enacted in the mid-1930s with the \"Supreme Court Act 1935-1936\", following similar laws enacted in Victoria. In 2010 the Rann government acted to strengthen the ability of the courts to act against vexatious litigants by \"increasing the range of courts and tribunals that can declare people as vexatious\". Prior to that date, few people had been banned from bringing litigation to South Australian courts – by 2005, only two people were listed as having been declared as vexatious litigants, the first in 1997 and the second declared during that year. Subsequently, at least two other South Australians have been found to be vexatious litigants.\n\n, only 13 people—including convicted mass-murderer Julian Knight—had been declared vexatious litigants since the law was introduced in 1930.\n\nLegislation has existed since 1930, but is under review as of limited use.\n\nUnder the \"Constitution Act, 1867\", section 92(14), each province is vested with the power to enact and apply laws relating to the administration of justice within its own territory.\n\nIn Canada, Section 40 of the \"Federal Court Act\" and in Ontario Section 140 of the \"Courts of Justice Act\", restrict the ability to introduce or continue proceedings for those who have instituted vexatious proceedings or conducted proceedings in a vexatious manner.\n\nIn Quebec, the Code of Civil Procedure is the principal legislation that sets rules related to civil procedure.\n\nUnder section 46 of the Code of Civil Procedure, all judicial courts and judges in Quebec are vested with \"...all the powers necessary for the exercise of their jurisdiction\". Furthermore, they may:\n\"…at any time and in all matters, whether in first instance or in appeal, issue orders to safeguard the rights of the parties, for such time and on such conditions as they may determine. As well, they may, in the matters brought before them, even on their own initiative, issue injunctions or reprimands, suppress writings or declare them libellous, and make such orders as are appropriate to deal with cases for which no specific remedy is provided by law.\"\nSection 46 vests a very broad power on judicial courts and judges to ensure that the administration of justice is conducted according to decorum and according to the remedial nature of justice. As the courts's decisions have shown it, the authority to declare a litigant as vexatious is directly tributary to the power conferred by section 46.\n\nCases illustrating the application of section 46 are numerous. Among them, there are: \"Nguiagain v. Commission de la fonction publique\", in which the judge rejected the plaintiff's motion for a \"mandamus\" to enjoin his union to revise the grievance that he had filed on the grounds that the motion was groundless and abusive; \"De Niverville c. Descôteaux\", where an injunction was rendered declaring the respondent, disbarred lawyer Descôteaux, as a vexatious litigant due to the multiple unfounded and frivolous actions that he had sought against the plaintiff De Niverville; and in \"Fabrikant v. Corbin\", a motion to declare the plaintiff Valery Fabrikant as a vexatious litigant was granted to the defendant, Dr. Corbin. In all of the above cited cases, a litigant was only declared vexatious following a proceeding instated by the opposite party.\n\nMoreover, section 46’s scope is limited to judicial courts and judges. Administrative tribunals are legislative creations and they can only exist and function within the limits that are imposed by law. Administrative tribunals in Quebec cannot declare a person a vexatious litigant.\n\nAs per section 90 of the \"Rules of Practice of the Superior Court of Québec in Civil Matters\", such litigants are now indexed in a registry kept by the Chief Justice in the judiciary district of Montreal. Lawyer and author Claude Duchesnay has reported in May 2003 that a document on the Quebec attorney general’s intranet contains the name of 58 persons who must obtain permission prior to instating proceedings before the courts.\n\nIn Ireland, a court may, of its own motion or on application, order that no proceedings, either of a certain type or at all, may be issued by a certain person without leave of that court or some other court, for a specified time, or indefinitely. Such an order is referred to in legal circles as an Isaac Wunder order after Isaac Wunder who made several claims against the Hospitals Trust claiming sweepstakes prizes, but the claims were found to be groundless and the case deemed frivolous or vexatious. He was prohibited from taking further High Court proceedings in the action without leave of the court.\n\nIn New Zealand a person may be declared a vexatious litigant by a High Court Judge on the application of the Attorney-General. A vexatious litigant must then apply to a High Court Judge for leave to commence any action. A decision by the High Court whether or not to grant leave cannot be appealed.\n\nCourts in England and Wales have the means of escalating the sanctions against a litigant who makes applications to the court that are \"totally without merit\": Civil restraint orders allow courts to forbid applications for court hearings without the permission of a judge. There are three types of CRO: limited, extended and general, with different scopes of application. Further applications totally without merit can lead to withdrawal of the right of appeal. Harassment of the court and court officials can lead to a penal prohibition notice, prohibiting the litigant from contacting or approaching the court without permission.\n\nHM Courts Service maintains a list of vexatious litigants.\n\nUnder the Vexatious Actions (Scotland) Act 1898 the Lord Advocate can apply for an order under section 1 of that Act to prevent any person accused of vexatious litigation from raising any and all legal proceedings \"unless he obtains the leave of a judge sitting in the Outer House on the Bills in the Court of Session, having satisfied the judge that such legal proceeding is not vexatious.\" A list of people who have had such an order brought against them is published on the Scottish Courts website. As of June 2018 there are ten names on this list.\n\nUnder California law a vexatious litigant is someone who does any of the following, most of which require that the litigant be proceeding \"pro se\", i.e., representing himself:\n\nAppeals of an existing action do not count as “final determinations”. Appeals and writs that are related to a current action do not count as “final determinations” or additional determinations, because until all avenues of appeal have been exhausted the determinations cannot be construed as “final”. A judgment is final for all purposes when all avenues for direct review have been exhausted. Interlocutory decisions before a judgment cannot be considered “final determinations”. Docket lists show nothing about qualifying merit of interim motions (Id.)\n\nTo meet the unspecified criteria for \"repeated\" motions or litigations, the number must be much more than two, and the rule based on case law seems to be around 12. \"While there is no bright line rule as to what constitutes “repeatedly,” most cases affirming the vexatious litigant designation involve situations where litigants have filed dozens of motions either during the pendency of an action or relating to the same judgment.\" \n\nRepeated motions must be \"so devoid of merit and be so frivolous that they can be described as a flagrant abuse of the system, have no reasonable probability of success, lack reasonable or probable cause or excuse, and are clearly meant to abuse the processes of the courts and to harass the adverse party than other litigants.\" Evidence that a litigant is a frequent plaintiff or defendant alone is insufficient to support a vexatious litigant designation. The moving party, in addition to demonstrating that the plaintiff is vexatious, must make an affirmative showing based on evidence that the case has little chance of prevailing on the merits. If the plaintiff is so determined, a bond may be required, and if the bond requirement is not met within a specified time period, a judgment of dismissal is ordered. A finding of vexatiousness is not an appealable order, but a dismissal for failure to post a bond requirement based on a judgment of vexatiousness is appealable.\n\nHabeas petitions do not count towards vexatious litigant determination. Vexatiousness in Probate Actions are governed by a different standard (Cal. Prob. Code §1611).\n\n"}
