{"id": "9041203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9041203", "title": "Abdul Salam Azimi", "text": "Abdul Salam Azimi\n\nAbdul Salam Azimi (Pashto: عبدالسلام عظیمی, born: 1936) in Farah Province) was the Chief Justice of Afghanistan and, as such, the head of the Afghan Supreme Court from May 2006 to October 2014, when he resigned his position.\n\nA former professor at the University of Nebraska at Omaha in the United States, Azimi served as legal advisor to Afghan President Hamid Karzai and assisted with writing the 2004 Constitution of Afghanistan. He is an ethnic Pashtun of the Alizai tribe. Prior to the Soviet Invasion of 1979, Azimi and his family resided in the Kabul province of Afghanistan and were forced to flee the country in 1981 after the fall of the Communist regime and resulting civil war. Azimi has three daughters and three sons, one being Abdul Ghafar Azimi who studied in Omaha, Nebraska and graduated from the University of Nebraska at Omaha, and another is Hanan Azimi, who also studied at the University of Nebraska at Omaha, and is a well-respected teacher in the Omaha area.\nAs chief justice, Azimi replaced Faisal Ahmad Shinwari, a conservative Islamic cleric with no higher education. Azimi, in contrast, is reported to have gained a reputation as a fair-minded moderate active in upholding the rule of law and improving the country's dilapidated legal system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24888419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24888419", "title": "Al-Mutawakkil Ahmad", "text": "Al-Mutawakkil Ahmad\n\nAl-Mutawakkil Ahmad (المتوكل أحمد) (26), (full name Ahmad bin Ali bin Abbas: أحمد بن علي بن عباس) September 1756 - 10 September 1816 was an Imam of Yemen who ruled in 1809-1816. He belonged to the Qasimid family, descendants of the Prophet Muhammad, which dominated the Zaidi imamate of Yemen from 1597 to 1962.\n\nAhmad bin Ali was a son of Imam al-Mansur Ali I. In the early 19th century, dramatic political events rocked the Zaidi state. The intervention of Wahhabi forces from the north in 1803 deprived the imam of most of the lowlands, the Tihamah. That meant the loss of vital revenues. Aggression from tribal groups outside the capital San'a further eroded the imam's power. As al-Mansur Ali I grew old and weak, intrigues arose around his person. Finally, in 1808, Prince Ahmad took power at court. This was a rather atypical event in Yemeni history, since sons usually did not rose against their fathers in power. Ahmad managed to abate the worst violence from the highland tribesmen. However, the governor of the important trading port Mocha refused to acknowledge the usurpation of power, and received assistance from the Sultan of Lahej and Aden. \nThe chief of Abu Arish in the Tihamah, Sharif Hamud (d. 1818), originally a vassal under the imam, had been forced to submit to the Wahhabi movement in 1803. In 1809, however, he fell out with the pro-Wahhabi chief of Upper Asir, Abu Nuqta. Sharif Hamud again proclaimed his allegiance to the Zaidi imam and restored to him the cities Luhayya, Hudaydah and Bayt al-Faqih. Abu Nuqta marched into the territory of Sharif Hamud in July 1809 and defeated him, but shortly afterwards he was himself killed in an assault by the Abu Arish warriors on his camp. This event gave Sharif Hamud a powerful position as autonomous chief in the Tihamah. In October 1809 the old imam died. Ahmad was formally elevated to the position under the name al-Mutawakkil Ahmad.\n\nThe new imam took a conciliatory stance to gain support. He remitted taxes, forgave some previous offences, and spent generously on the poor. The governor of Mocha laid down his arms, and died in the following year. At this time the Wahhabi movement of Arabia was vigorously attacked by the Egyptian viceroy Muhammad Ali Pasha, a formal subject of the Ottoman sultan. Muhammad Ali was intent on gaining power over the potentially rich lands of Yemen. He sent envoys to Sharif Hamud and to al-Mutawakkil Ahmad suggesting mutual assistance against the Wahhabi forces. The sharif gave an evasive reply. The imam was positive to the proposal but had little means to assist Muhammad Ali. The Ottoman forces were temporarily defeated by Shaykh Tami of Asir in 1814. In the next year, however, Sharif Hamud took Shaykh Tami prisoner and delivered him to the Ottomans. While the Ottoman war against the Wahhabites was in full progress in 1816, al-Mutawakkil Ahmad died and was succeeded by his son al-Mahdi Abdallah. The latter would, within a few years, win back the Tihamah with Turkish help, at the same time putting himself in dependence of the Ottoman state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3103542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3103542", "title": "Chef Goes Nanners", "text": "Chef Goes Nanners\n\n\"Chef Goes Nanners\" is the seventh episode of the fourth season of the animated television series \"South Park\", and the 55th episode of the series overall. \"Chef Goes Nanners\" originally aired in the United States on Comedy Central on July 5, 2000.\n\nIn the episode, Chef's passionate protest declaring the South Park flag racist inflames the entire town. The kids separate into two opposing camps and prepare to debate the issue. Stan and Kyle champion the current flag while Wendy and Cartman head up the side for a new flag. Meanwhile, Wendy Testaburger finds herself strangely attracted to Cartman.\n\nJimbo and Chef visit Mayor McDaniels' office, arguing about the South Park town flag: Jimbo wants to keep it, for it has been around since the time of the town's founding; Chef, however, insists it is racist. The South Park flag depicts four white figures hanging a black one on a gallows. The blatant racism incites Chef's indignation and leads him to believe that the whole town is racist. Chef immediately starts to rally support in order to change the flag. Neither he nor Jimbo can gather a lot of support, as very few townspeople have strong opinions either way on the issue. In school, the class is assigned to debate the \"Change the Flag\" issue. Stan and Kyle lead the team that wants to keep the flag the same, while Wendy and Cartman lead the side that wants to change it (with Cartman only volunteering presumably to irritate Wendy). During lunch, Stan and Kyle ask Chef for help, not knowing he had just converted to Islam. Upon hearing that they think that the flag should not be changed, Chef gets agitated and verbally abusive towards the boys, who have no idea why Chef is so upset about the flag. \n\nWendy leads her team in the library when Cartman suddenly interrupts the process with his own strategy. He gets the team to dig up some dirt on Stan and Kyle, hoping to win the debate with \"ad hominem\" attacks on their credibility. Meanwhile, Kyle and Stan are at Kyle's father's law office studying how freedom of speech is an issue with the flag. While this is going on, Kenny eats 60 antacid tablets, believing they were mints, and then takes a drink of water, causing him to explode. The debate team now has one less member. At the City Hall, members of the KKK march up, loudly voicing their support for the current flag as a symbol of \"white power\". This causes discomfort amongst Jimbo, Ned, and a number of the other flag supporters: they don't wish to be sided on any issue with the Klan. To remedy this issue, Jimbo and Ned infiltrate in the clan and suggest that if they want the flag to remain unchanged they should advocate that the flag should be changed, because the majority of the people will always vote against what the Klan wants. The leader embraces the idea, and the Klan switches sides. After Ned and Jimbo escape, they run into Chef while still wearing the Klan robes. Chef believes they are in fact KKK members, and drives off in anger before they can explain. \n\nThe mayor fails to appease Chef by revising the flag so that the man being hanged appears to be smiling, and decides not to make the decision herself. She lets the kids' debate club decide the fate of the flag. This puts a lot of pressure on Wendy, who, in their study sessions, suddenly begins to feel attracted to Cartman. This scares Wendy, because Stan's her boyfriend and she and Cartman actually hate each other. Bebe later explains the concept of sexual tension to her, advising that she should kiss Cartman just to get it out of her system. During the debate, Wendy is distracted because she is attracted to Cartman and cannot deliver her opening remarks. She walks over and kisses him in front of the whole town, breaking the built-up tension and leaving Stan shocked. After this, she is able to continue her standpoint. When the turn of Stan's team comes, Kyle gives their side of the issue by saying that killing is a natural part of life and is not a big deal. When Chef stands up and demands they address the racist aspect of the flag, he and the rest of the adults discover that the children had not even perceived that there was a racist aspect, seeing the flag as a man being hanged without registering his color, and had instead thought that the issue at hand was capital punishment. \n\nChef is touched by this, and, while still acknowledging that he thinks the flag should be changed, he admits that when he believed the whole town was racist and threw the slur \"cracker\" around, he was the one being racist. Jimbo also apologizes for being on the KKK's side and tells Chef that he has no problem with black people, Chef in return assuring Jimbo that he recognizes Jimbo as a good man. After Jimbo and Chef decide to come to a compromise, Kyle declares that they do not need to debate anymore, although Stan is still frozen with a shocked expression about Wendy kissing Cartman. In the end, ethnic diversity is added to the flag: the black man is now being hanged by a group of people of all races, including another black man. Chef delivers the moral of this story: his inclination to anti-racism almost made him a racist himself, perceiving things according to race leads only to further racism. In the final scene, Wendy says that she is glad that everything is over with and that her feelings for Cartman have disappeared. Cartman agrees and laughs nervously. Wendy runs after Stan, calling his name, leaving Cartman completely alone.\n\nAfter a few moments, Cartman sighs and walks away sadly, implying that he might have started to develop genuine feelings for Wendy.\n\nAccording to the DVD commentary, the episode was based on the initial controversy over the display of the Confederate flag at the South Carolina State House.\n\nCo-creator Matt Stone has characterized \"Chef Goes Nanners\" as \"kind of half-baked. I remember we wanted to leave the office early. We were like, 'It's July 4... '\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19153", "title": "Communications in the Marshall Islands", "text": "Communications in the Marshall Islands\n\nThis article is about communications systems in the Marshall Islands. \n\nIn 2010, the Majuro and Kwajalein Atoll were connected to the Internet using the HANTRU-1 undersea cable to provide high-speed bandwidth. Faster Internet service was rolled out to Majuro and Ebeye on April 1, 2010.\n\nNewspapers - Marshall Islands Journal:\n\nWeekly national newspaper:\ntabloid \n<br>\nThe Marshall Islands Journal is a dual language, once a week publication. It is the newspaper of record for the Marshall Islands.\n\nTelephones - main lines in use:\n3,000 (1994)\n\nTelephones - mobile cellular:\n280 (1994)\n\nTelephone system:\ntelex services\n<br>\"domestic:\"\nMajuro Atoll and Ebeye and Kwajalein islands have regular, seven-digit, direct-dial telephones; other islands interconnected by shortwave radio, telephone (used mostly for government purposes)\n<br>\"international:\"\nsatellite earth stations - 2 Intelsat (Pacific Ocean); US Government satellite communications system on Kwajalein\n\nRadio broadcast stations:\nAM 3, FM 4, shortwave 0 (1998)\n\nStations included are:\n\nRadios:\nNA\n\nTelevision broadcast stations:\n3 (of which two are US military stations) (1997) (stations are: MBC-TV, CPN (AFN) - Central Pacific Network (Channel 1) - CPN (AFN) - Central Pacific Network (Channel 2))\n\nInternet Service Providers (ISPs):\n1\n\nCountry code (Top level domain): MH\nNot active since 1996-1997 when the ISP \"MH\" was founded, no websites are currently registered in domain\n\nThe majority of communication is under the responsibility of Marshall Islands National Telecommunications Authority.\n"}
{"id": "34975406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34975406", "title": "Contraceptive mandate", "text": "Contraceptive mandate\n\nA contraceptive mandate is a government regulation or law that requires health insurers, or employers that provide their employees with health insurance, to cover some contraceptive costs in their health insurance plans.\n\nIn 1978, the United States Congress made it clear that discrimination on the basis of pregnancy was discrimination on the basis of sex. In 2000, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that companies that provided insurance for prescription drugs to their employees but excluded birth control were violating the Civil Rights Act of 1964. President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) on 23 March 2010. As of 1 August 2011, female contraception was added to a list of preventive services covered by the ACA that would be provided without patient co-payment. The federal mandate applied to all new health insurance plans in all states from 1 August 2012. Grandfathered plans did not have to comply unless they changed substantially. To be grandfathered, a group plan must have existed or an individual plan must have been sold before President Obama signed the law; otherwise they were required to comply with the new law. The Guttmacher Institute noted that even before the federal mandate was implemented, twenty-eight states had their own mandates that required health insurance to cover the prescription contraceptives, but the federal mandate innovated by forbidding insurance companies from charging part of the cost to the patient. In 2017, the Trump administration issued a ruling letting insurers and employers refuse to provide birth control if doing so went against their \"religious beliefs\" or \"moral convictions\".\n\nIn the United States, contraceptive use saves about $19 billion in direct medical costs each year.\n\nAbout half of U.S. pregnancies are unintended. Highly effective contraceptives, such as intrauterine devices (IUDs), are underused in the United States. Increasing use of highly effective contraceptives could help meet the goal set forward in Healthy People 2020 to decrease unintended pregnancy by 10% before 2020. Cost to the user is one factor preventing many US women from using more effective contraceptives. Making contraceptives available without a copay increases use of highly effective methods, reduces unintended pregnancies, and may be instrumental in achieving the Healthy People 2020 goal.\n\nSome public school districts in the United States have mandated that programs providing contraception to students be offered. One example of such schools is the New London High School in Connecticut. The theory behind offering contraceptives in schools is that by offering barrier-free methods of obtaining contraception, students are more likely to use them. These programs also aim to reduce incidence of teen pregnancy, as well as reduce transmission of STDs among teenagers. Mandates on contraceptives in school have faced opposition from conservative groups, who believe that providing contraceptives to students will increase sexual activity.\n\nCertain aspects of the contraception mandate did not start with the ACA. In December 2000, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that companies that provided prescription drugs to their employees but didn't provide birth control were in violation of Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which prevents discrimination on the basis of sex. That opinion, which the George W. Bush administration did nothing to alter or withdraw when it took office the next month, is still in effect today – and because it relies on Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, it applies to all employers with 15 or more employees. Currently, employers that do not offer prescription coverage or do not offer insurance at all are exempt, because they treat men and women equally, but the new mandate will require prescription coverage.\n\nAfter the EEOC opinion was approved in 2000, reproductive rights groups and employees who wanted birth control access sued employers that refused to comply. The next year, in \"Erickson v. Bartell Drug Co.\", a federal court agreed with the EEOC's reasoning. Reproductive rights groups and others used that decision as leverage to force other companies to settle lawsuits and agree to change their insurance plans to include birth control. Some subsequent court decisions echoed Erickson, and some went the other way, but the rule (absent a Supreme Court decision) remained, and over the following decade, the percentage of employer-based plans offering contraceptive coverage tripled to 90%.\n\nIn 1978, the U.S. Congress made it clear that discrimination on the basis of pregnancy was discrimination on the basis of sex. In 2000, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that companies that provided insurance for prescription drugs to their employees but excluded birth control were violating the Civil Rights Act of 1964. President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) on 23 March 2010. As of 1 August 2011, contraception was added to a list of preventive services covered by the ACA that would be provided without patient co-payment. The federal mandate applies to all new health insurance plans in all states from 1 August 2012. Grandfathered plans do not have to comply unless they change substantially. To be grandfathered, a group plan must have existed or an individual plan must have been sold before President Obama signed the law; otherwise they must comply with the new law. The Guttmacher Institute noted that even before the federal mandate was implemented, 28 states had their own mandates that required health insurance to cover the prescription contraceptives, but the federal mandate innovated by forbidding insurance companies from charging part of the cost to the patient.\n\nWith the exception of churches and houses of worship, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act mandates female contraceptive coverage for all employers and educational institutions, even though the mandate itself is not included in the wording of the law(s) passed by Congress. The mandate applies to all new health insurance plans effective August 2012. It controversially includes Christian hospitals, Christian charities, Catholic universities, and other enterprises owned or controlled by religious organizations that oppose contraception on doctrinal grounds.\n\nOn January 20, 2012, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced a (then) final rule of an August 1, 2011 interim final rule on health insurance coverage with no cost sharing for FDA-approved contraceptives and contraceptive services (including female sterilization) for women of reproductive age if prescribed by health care providers, as part of women's preventive health services guidelines adopted by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for the Affordable Care Act. Male contraception is not eligible.\n\nRegulations made under the act rely on the recommendations of the independent Institute of Medicine (IOM) in its July 19, 2011 report \"Clinical Preventive Services for Women: Closing the Gaps\", which concluded that birth control is medically necessary \"to ensure women's health and well-being\".\n\nThe administration allowed a religious exemption. The exemption initially applied to church organizations themselves, but not to affiliated nonprofit corporations, like hospitals, that do not rely primarily on members of the faith as employees. An amendment, the Blunt Amendment, was proposed that \"would have allowed employers to refuse to include contraception in health care coverage if it violated their religious or moral beliefs\", but it was voted down 51-48 by the U.S. Senate on March 1, 2012.\n\nIn May 2015 the Obama administration stated that under the ACA, at least one form of all 18 FDA-approved methods of birth control for women must be covered without cost-sharing. These 18 methods include: sterilization surgery, surgical sterilization implant, implantable rod, copper intrauterine device, IUDs with progestin (a hormone), shot/injection, oral contraceptives (the pill), with estrogen and progestin, oral contraceptives with progestin only, oral contraceptives, known as extended or continuous use that delay menstruation, the patch, vaginal contraceptive ring, diaphragm, sponge, cervical cap, female condom, spermicide, emergency contraception (Plan B/morning-after pill), and emergency contraception (a different pill called Ella). All forms of male birth control are exempt from mandatory coverage under the ACA and the \"ObamaCare Facts\" page explicitly states that \"Plans aren’t required to cover services related to a man’s reproductive capacity, like vasectomies.\"\n\nIn February 2012, a major political controversy erupted with candidates for the Republican nomination for President viewing the regulations as a \"direct attack on religious liberty\". \nThe United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has since taken the lead in opposition to the regulations. Cardinal Timothy M. Dolan, the archbishop of New York and president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, stated that the provision \"represents a challenge and a compromise of our religious liberty\". The regulations issued under the act are also opposed by active Christian Evangelicals. Other organizations, such as Planned Parenthood, supported the provision.\n\nIn response to the criticism, the Obama administration proposed changes under which birth control medication would be provided by the insurers without direct involvement by the religious organization. Regulations were issued on March 16, 2012 for employees of enterprises controlled by religious institutions which self insure. Further regulations were issued on March 16, 2012 which require coverage for students at institutions controlled by religious organizations which purchase insurance. It is believed by the federal government that it is not possible under current law to require contraceptive coverage for students at institutions controlled by religious organizations which self insure.\n\nThe Catholic Health Association (CHA) accepted this compromise. Although initially more supportive, Sister Carol Keehan, CEO of the CHA, registered opposition in a five-page letter to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The vice president of Catholic identity and mission at Mount St. Mary's University, Stuart Swetland, said, \"It shows [Obama] and the administration are listening to our concerns\", but reserved the right to \"examine the details\". However, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops continued to oppose the regulation, saying that the regulation still requires Catholics in the insurance industry to violate their consciences. Catholic opinion is split with a \"New York Times\"/CBS News poll showing 57% support of the regulations among Catholic voters and about the same by non-Catholics.\n\nIn June 2013, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals allowed a lawsuit against the mandate by arts and crafts retailer, Hobby Lobby to proceed. The Green family objected to contraceptives which they believe may prevent implantation of a fertilized egg, which according to the Association of American Physicians and Surgeons, American Association of Pro-Life Obstetricians & Gynecologists, Christian Medical Association, Catholic Medical Association, National Catholic Bioethics Center, Physicians for Life, and National Association of Pro Life Nurses include the emergency contraceptives \"Plan B\" (levonorgestrel), \"ella\" (ulipristal acetate), and copper IUDs. In July 2013, the Third Circuit denied a preliminary injunction requested by Conestoga Wood Specialties Corporation, a cabinet manufacturing company owned by a Menonite family, requesting an exemption from the mandate on religious grounds. Both of these rulings were appealed to the Supreme Court, which granted certiorari on the consolidated cases to resolve the split. Another decision by the Sixth Circuit in a similar case has been appealed to the Supreme Court, and is being held pending the court's decision in the other two cases.\n\nAs of January 2014, at least 28 states in the US have contraceptive mandates; however, 20 of them allow some exceptions; four of those attempt to bridge the gap by letting employees buy coverage at the group rate.\n\nA number of challenges to the contraceptive mandate have been brought to the Supreme Court by different types of organizations.\n\nOn June 30, 2014, the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 in \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\" that under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), closely held for-profit corporations are exempt from the contraceptive mandate, if they object on religious grounds, because the accommodation offered to objecting non-profits would be a less restrictive way to achieve the ACA's interest. Justice Anthony Kennedy, one of the majority justices, wrote in a concurring opinion that the government \"makes the case that the mandate serves the Government’s compelling interest in providing insurance coverage that is necessary to protect the health of female employees\", but that the RFRA's least-restrictive way requirement was not met because \"there is an existing, recognized, workable, and already-implemented framework to provide coverage\", the non-profit accommodation.\n\nOn February 15, 2012, \"Priests for Life v. HHS\" was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York challenging the constitutionality of the contraceptive mandate on behalf of Priests for Life, a national, Catholic, pro-life organization based in New York City. The case was dismissed by U.S. District Court Judge Frederic Block for lack of ripeness because the new compromise regulations were not yet finalized. On November 6, 2015 the Supreme Court of the United States decided it will review the case combined with 6 other similar challenges to the contraceptive mandate. The case is titled \"Zubik v. Burwell\" and the six other challenges include \"Priests for Life v. Burwell\", \"Southern Nazarene University v. Burwell\", \"Geneva College v. Burwell\", \n\"Roman Catholic Archbishop of Washington v. Burwell\", \"East Texas Baptist University v. Burwell\" and \"Little Sisters of the Poor Home for the Aged v. Burwell\".\n\nIn 2017, the Trump administration issued a ruling letting insurers and employers refuse to provide birth control if doing so went against their \"religious beliefs\" or \"moral convictions\".\n\nMore Democratic politicians favor these mandates than Republican politicians. Barbara Boxer, Democratic Party Senator for California, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi favor the Obama policy.\n\nDarrell Issa, a Republican congressman from California, said that Americans are divided on this issue: \"While some Americans may not feel that forcing them to pay for contraception are an infringement on their religious beliefs, others consider it to be an assault against their freedom of conscience.\" Issa's February 2012 hearing on the matter was criticized for including only men from conservative religious institutions, and no women.\n\nSome people see the matter as primarily one of women's health, such as the National Women's Law Center. Others see it as a matter of religious freedom.\n\nCertain consumers of mandatory health insurance, such as students matriculated at colleges of further education, have criticized what they perceive to be discrimination in provision or in practice: employer-provided plans that cover University faculty and staff may be subject to legal mandates whereas plans that cover the student body may not. Sandra Fluke was invited to present oral arguments on behalf of certain female student consumers dissatisfied with restrictions attached to registration for undergraduate and graduate attendance at Georgetown University School of Law.\n\n"}
{"id": "41379682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41379682", "title": "Corruption in Slovenia", "text": "Corruption in Slovenia\n\nCorruption in Slovenia is examined on this page.\n\nAccording to Transparency International's Global Corruption Barometer 2013, political parties rank as the most corrupt institution in Slovenia, closely followed by Parliament, the judiciary and public officials. According to the same survey, 77% of the households consider the government's efforts in fighting corruption “ineffective”.\n\nIn January 2013, thousands of Slovenians joined the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and took to the streets, demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Janez Janša and opposition leader Zoran Janković because both had been accused of failing to properly declare their personal assets. The Commission accused both of “systemic, gross and repeated violations of the anti-corruption legislation”. The month after the protest, Janša was ousted in a no-confidence vote. In June 2013, Janša was convicted of corruption in connection with a 2006 defence contract and given a two-year prison sentence. The conviction was unanimously overturned by the Constitutional Court on 23 April 2015. However, Zoran Janković, continued his mandate as mayor of Ljubljana.\n\nAs of 2017, Slovenia was 34 th on the Corruption perceptions index with 61 points (which is the same than in 2016) and is on the same place as Botswana. Slovenia has been stagnating in the field of corruption for at least 5 years. Major systemic measures are needed to lower the level of corruption in Slovenia. \n\nAccording to Transparency International's Global Corruption Barometer 2013, the private sector is scored 3.3 on a 5-point scale (1 being 'not at all corrupt' and 5 'extremely corrupt'). Transparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 31st place out of 176 countries.\n\nAccording to the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014, corruption ranks among the top-five most problematic factors for doing business in Slovenia, after access to financing, inefficient government bureaucracy, restrictive labour regulations and tax rates. However, surveyed executives report that public funds are rarely diverted due to corruption, and the ethical behaviour of companies is considered relatively high.\n\n"}
{"id": "32019995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32019995", "title": "Dacian art", "text": "Dacian art\n\nDacian art is the art associated with the peoples known as Dacians or North Thracians; The Dacians created an art style in which the influences of Scythians and the Greeks can be seen. They were highly skilled in gold and silver working and in pottery making. Pottery was white with red decorations in floral, geometric, and stylized animal motifs. Similar decorations were worked in metal, especially the figure of a horse, which was common on Dacian coins. \n\nThe Geto-Dacians lived in a very large territory, stretching from the Balkans to the northern Carpathians and from the Black Sea and the river Tyras to the Tisa plain, sometimes even to the Middle Danube. Between 15th-12th century, the Dacian-Getae culture was influenced by the Bronze Age Tumulus-Urnfield warriors.\n\nDacian civilization went through several stages of development, from the Thracian stage in the Bronze Age to the classical period of the Geto-Dacians (the first century BC to the first century AD). In the Bronze Age, proto-Thracian populations emerged from the fusion of the local Eneolithic (Chalcolithic) stock with the intruders of the transitional Indo-Europeanization Period. From these proto-Thracians, in the Iron Age, there were developed the Dacians of the Danubian-Carpathian Area on the one hand and the Thracians of the eastern Balkan Peninsula on the other.\n\nNorth Thracian population was chiefly an Early Bronze Age mix of the descendants of intrusive stockbreeding people and of survivors of the autochthonous Chalcolithic culture that the newcomers had destroyed. In this ethnic synthesis which gave birth to the Thracian people, the former predominated but, especially in the more mountainous areas, vestiges of Chalcolithic traditions survived through the Early and into the Middle Bronze Age.\n\nThe local, Daco-Thracian art should not be mistaken for the art of the Thracians south of the Balkans although mutual influences had undoubtedly appeared.\nThracian art was typically geometric in its decoration, a taste which was a remnant of Late Bronze Age traditions. While the Thracian tribes adopted-no doubt from the Scythians-some aspects of mounted nomadism in the first millennium B.C., they also preserved many traditions of the European Bronze Age and belonged more to the world of European cultures than to that of the East.\n\nThe 1st century BC silver work from the lower Danube region consists mostly of bracelets and fibulae alongside of a small number of decorative disks, plaques, and bowls. To distinguish it from earlier Thracian silver work, one might label this later silver work as Geto-Dacian or Geto-Thracian depending on whether is found above or below the lower Danube.\nThe design of Geto-Dacian helmets (i.e. Ciumesti, Iron Gate) is sufficiently unusual in ancient art to offer the opportunity to trace it to its origin, and, thereby, provide some insight into the Scythian elements that went into the formation of early Dacian art and the means by which ancient Oriental motifs survived and were transmitted into Europe Almost identical in decoration and details of craftsmanship are the two silver beakers, now in Bucharest and New York and unquestionably were made in the same metalsmith shop as the helmet.\n"}
{"id": "30982426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30982426", "title": "Dangerous Drugs Act 1920", "text": "Dangerous Drugs Act 1920\n\nIn the United Kingdom the Dangerous Drugs Act 1920 is an Act which changed to a penal offence drug addiction which up to then was, within the medical profession, treated as a disease. The former was the view held by the then Assistant Under Secretary of State, Malcolm Delevingne.\n\nThe Home Office was charged with implementing the Act In January 1921 the Home Secretary gave 40 days notice of his intention to issue controls over \n\nThe Act also said that the export, import, sale, distribution or possession of barbiturates, had to be licensed or authorised by the Home Secretary. This proviso also applied to dilutions of cocaine and morphine, as defined in the lower limits set by the Hague Convention.\n\nThe Home Office, in consultation with the Ministry of Health, as a result of this Act, produced a series of memoranda for doctors and dentists to explain the requirements of the Act. These were known as DD 101's (Memoranda as to the Duties of Doctors and Dentists). These were distributed to doctors, although the memorandi never had any statutory power. One particular memorandum, in 1938, added, for the first time, \"that maintenance of addicts if only for the 'gratification of addiction is not regarded as a medical need\"'.\n"}
{"id": "20179847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20179847", "title": "Deborah Szebeko", "text": "Deborah Szebeko\n\nDeborah Szebeko (born 1980) is founding director of the social design agency thinkpublic.\n\nAfter volunteering for nine months at Great Ormond Street Children’s Hospital NHS Trust in 2003, Szebeko identified opportunities to use design to improve communications and patient experiences in healthcare . To encompass her insight, Szebeko set up thinkpublic in 2004 after taking part in the NESTA Creative Pioneer Programme.\n\nUsing design to improve health and public services, Szebeko and thinkpublic have worked with organisations across the World in the health and social sector. With an experience in designing services, products and social enterprise.\n\nAt the heart of thinkpublic and Szebeko's work is co-design, a Participatory design methodology for involving people in identifying opportunities and needs, then using creative tools to design solutions.\n\nWorking across the public, third and private sectors, Szebeko has used design and research methodologies to encourage service innovation and enterprise. Over the past 13 years, she has successfully used her service design approach to inform and develop products, enterprises and service innovations that have been rolled out internationally by the NHS Institute for Innovation and Improvement, the Department of Health (UK), NESTA, Alzheimer's Society, Cabinet Office, AstraZeneca, DigitasLBi and Design Council.\n\nIn 2012, thinkpublic won Design Week Service Design Award, followed by being ranked in the top 50 Agencies of the year.\n\nIn 2008, for her dedication to social innovation, Szebeko won the British Council’s UK Young Design Entrepreneur Award and was listed in the Top 10 for ‘The Future 500’ in The Observer and New Statesman.\n\nIn 2003, Szebeko won the HEFSC Young Volunteer of the Year Award for her design work at Great Ormond St Children's Hospital NHS Trust.\n\nSince setting up thinkpublic, Szebeko has presented her work at international design and health conferences including: Leading Age Services Congress (Australia 2015), Design Indaba (Cape Town 2011), The European Business Analysts Conference (London 2010), Women in Design (Poland 2011), Designs of the Time (Cornwall 2011), Reinventing Design (Hong Kong Design Centre, 2008), Designs of the Time (Newcastle, 2007), NESTA Young Innovators (London, 2007), The European Forum on Quality Improvement in Healthcare (Prague, 2006), Doors of Perception (New Delhi, 2005) and DOORS Leaders Round Table (Amsterdam, 2004).\n\n\nPapers written by Szebeko on Co-design:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23289159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23289159", "title": "Demographic history of Japan before the Meiji Restoration", "text": "Demographic history of Japan before the Meiji Restoration\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Japan before the Meiji Restoration.\n\nBefore the establishment of the system by the Tokugawa shogunate, several less reliable sources existed upon which an estimate of the population was made. The first record of the population was the Chinese text \"Records of Three Kingdoms\" (), where the summated number of houses in eight countries of Wō () is given as 159,000.\n\nThe household registration system (Hukou () or Huji ()), which is called in Japanese, was introduced from ancient China to Japan during the 7th century. According to \"\", the first \"koseki\" system, called or , was established between 670 or 690, and was to be readministered every six years. However, most of the original \"koseki\" texts were lost because they were to be preserved only 30 years. The oldest \"koseki\" fragments - which were reused as reinforcement papers () in - records names, ages and estates of people including slaves (e.g. 1,119 persons were recorded for the village named (present day ) in 702)). A discarded lacquer-coated paper document () found in , Ishioka, Ibaraki records the total population of families of taxpayers in in 795 was 191,660 (excluding families of officers, families of workers for Shintō shrines and slaves); this is the only reliable remaining census recorded for a whole province before the Edo period. The ancient \"koseki\" system later collapsed during the early Heian period, when aristocrats achieved power as landowners of Shōen.\n\nThe following estimates by different scholars are based upon the number of houses, villages, kokudaka, areas of rice fields and soldiers which were recorded in \"\" (10th century), \"Record of Sung ()\", \" (14th century), \" (late 16th century), \"\" (early 17th century), or fragments of papers of the Shōsōin (8th century) and others, as well as remnants of specific periods.\n\nSince Kyōto (or Heian-kyō) became the capital of Japan in 794, it has been one of the most important cities in Japan. Hiraizumi and Kamakura flourished under Northern Fujiwara clans (during 12th century) and Kamakura shogunate (1192 to 1333), respectively. The urban area of Kyōto suffered from the Ōnin War (1467 to 1477) and split into two districts, but coalesced into a great city of more than 400,000 inhabitants after the end of Sengoku period. The Christian missionaries led by Francis Xavier reported that the number of houses in Kyōto, Yamaguchi or Hakata was more than 90,000, more than 10,000 or 10,000, respectively, in the late 16th century according to \"History of Japan\" written by Luís Fróis. After the unification of Japan by Toyotomi Hideyoshi, Ōsaka grew into a populous city with tens of thousands of people. Several castle towns also began to grow, where samurai classes were settled.\n\nAfter the Shimabara Rebellion, several \"daimyōs\" adopted certification systems where all the individuals were to be registered to temples and shrines to avoid Christianity. The Danka system (or ) was officially set by Tokugawa shogunate in 1664, and demographic data of individuals registered to temples and shrines (Shūmon Ninbetsu Aratame Chō) were recorded. After decades, Tokugawa Yoshimune decided to survey the total population of Japan and ordered to collect demographic data of all the domains () and shogunate territories (). The first census was surveyed every six years since 1721 and finished in 1846, because the confusion after the Perry Expedition and death of Tokugawa Ieyoshi in 1853 postponed the calculation process of the demographic data collected in 1852, according to edited by (.\nSome of population censuses during Edo era remain recorded in diaries or official texts as below. The population of samurai class and their servants as well as imperial families and noblemen was officially excluded from the census. In addition, the demographic data were summarized by individual domains according to their rules, where babies and children, Buddhist monks, nuns and Shintō priests, discriminated classes of eta and hinin were sometimes excluded from the total population. Unregistered people were also excluded.\n\nIn 1732, Tokugawa Yoshimune also ordered nine big \"Tozama daimyōs\" whose Domains were not changed since 1664 to report earlier population growths in their Domains. Here, population of Morioka Domain increased from 245,635 in 1669 to 322,109 in 1732; population of Tokushima Domain increased from 308,880 in 1665 to 470,512 in 1732; population of Tsu Domain increased from 252,061 in 1665 to 287,242 in 1732; population of Okayama Domain increased from 185,043 in 1686 to 396,469 in 1732; population of Kagoshima Domain increased from 260,961 in 1698 to 339,955 in 1732; population of Sendai Domain increased from 599,241 in 1690 to 647,427 in 1732; population of Tsuruoka Domain increased from 126,383 in 1694 to 131,164 in 1732; population of Kaga Domain increased from 551,754 in 1720 to 576,734 in 1732; while population of Nihonmatsu Domain only decreased from 73,351 in 1685 to 70,614 in 1732, according to the records written in \"Chikkyō Yohitsu Besshū\", which supports the rapid population growth in the early Edo era. Thus, the estimated population of Japan in 1600 ranges from 11 to 22 million, then a rapid population growth took place during the early Edo era to bring Japan to a country of about 30 million inhabitants by 1721, though more precise total population estimates remain arguable. The rapid population growth likely ended by early 18th century, then Japan's total population growth became almost zero during mid to late Edo era.\n\nThe total fertility rate is the number of children born per woman. It is based on approximated and fairly good data for the entire period. Sources: Our World In Data and Gapminder Foundation.\n\nSome demographic data for former provinces or remain recorded. Similarly to the total population, recorded provincial population excludes ruling and exceptional classes, while that in 1873 (after Meiji Restoration) includes all the registered people.\nAfter the beginning of the Tokugawa census, population growth fell almost to zero until the end of the Sakoku policy. On the other hand, regional demographic data suggest that population growth differed depending on area; the population of Tōhoku region (Mutsu and Dewa), especially in Mutsu decreased drastically, probably because of famines. The population of Kansai region (Kinai and its surrounding areas), which was the most densely populated and the most cultivated area of that time, as well as that of Kantō region, also slightly decreased, probably because the surplus population in the rural areas moved to the big cities such as Kyoto, Osaka, and Edo, where the life expectancy at birth were much lower than that in rural areas. On the other hand, populations in most of western Japan including Chūgoku region (San'indō and San'yodō), Shikoku (Nankaidō except for Kii) and Kyūshū (Saikaidō) steadily increased, where growth was sustained by the introduction of New World crops such as sweet potato, pumpkin, or corn.\n\nThe populations of Ryūkyū and Amami Islands were surveyed by the Satsuma Domain, which had formal possession of Satsuma, Ōsumi and part of Hyūga () in southern Kyūshū, and recorded in Satsuma domestic texts, although they were not reported to the Tokugawa shogunate and were thus excluded from the total population of Japan. The populations of Ryūkyū and Amami Islands were included in the total populations of Japan after the Meiji Restoration.\nThe populations recorded in Satsuma domestic texts include all the classes, from several samurai classes to people who were discriminated against.\n\nOn the other hand, the populations of Ainu in eastern Ezo (including Chishima (Kuril Islands)) and western Ezo (including Karafuto (Sakhalin)) have been recorded since 1798 and 1810, respectively, and were thus included in the total population of Japan.\nMeiji government tried to unify the registered system of Shūmon Ninbetsu Aratame Chō in consonant with that of each other among domains and prefectures into a single registered system of \"koseki\". However population were still surveyed by domains until the Abolition of the han system in 1871. The total population of Japan on July 28, 1870 (32,773,698) was collected by different systems of domains, but included all the registered people of all classes.\n\nThe uniformed system of was finally established in 1872, where the discriminated classes of eta and hinin were assimilated into the citizens class (), though they kept unofficially called ) and discriminated. The honseki population in 1872 (33,110,825) includes 29 imperial members (), 2,666 noblemen (), 1,282,167 former samurai class members (), 658,074 and 3,316 lower former samurai class members ( and , respectively), 211,846 and 9,621 Buddhist monks and nuns ( and , respectively), 102,477 former Shintō priests (), 30,837,271 citizens (heimin, which includes ca. 550,000 shin-heimin and 2,358 unclassified people in Sakhalin.)\n\nAfter the Battle of Sekigahara, Yamaguchi declined, while Edo (Tōkyō) and Sumpu (Shizuoka) became important under the Tokugawa shougunate. According to Rodrigo de Vivero y Velasco, the populations of Kyōto, Ōsaka, Edo, Sumpu and Sakai were 300,000–400,000 (or 800,000), 200,000, 150,000, 120,000 and 80,000, respectivel;, while the two towns between Sumpu and Kyōto had 30,000 and 40,000 inhabitants (probably Hamamatsu and Nagoya (or Kiyosu), respectively) in 1609. After the death of Tokugawa Ieyasu, Sumpu became less important, while Edo, Ōsaka and Kyōto became the three most important cities and were called the with tens of thousands of inhabitants.\n\nBelow is a list of the estimated population of major Japanese urbans during Edo period. Although Hiroshima, Wakayama, Tokushima, Hagi, Takamatsu and Sumpu (Shizuoka) were important castle towns of major domains, estimated populations are not given because of the lack of sufficient demographic records. Population of Shuri, the capital of the Kingdom of Ryūkyū, is also not estimated, while Yokohama was only a small village of less than 100 houses until the opening of the port in 1859.\n\nEstimated populations of castle towns contain considerable errors compared to those of the business towns (Ōsaka, Sakai, Hyōgo, Niigata, Nagasaki, Hakodate and Fushimi) with fewer samurai-class inhabitants, because demographics of samurai classes and their servants (or dwellers of samurai districts) were recorded separately or kept secret, which easily lead to the loss of original data after the abolition of the Han system. On the other hand, the demography of chōnin classes (civilian), or dwellers of chōnin districts plus chōnin classes who dwelt in temple/shrine districts (i.e. excluding demographics of Buddhist monks, nuns and Shintō priests which were usually summed separately), rather remain recorded for most of the cases.\n\nEven the peak estimated population of Edo varies from 788,000 to 1,500,000. For example, Yoshida (1910) estimated the peak population of Edo (shortly before Perry's expeditions) at 1,400,000 based on the average amount of rice carried into Edo (1,400,000 \"koku\" per year). Chandler (1987) estimated the peak population of Edo at 788,000 by adding samurai population as 3/8 of the recorded chōnin population. Sekiyama (1958) estimated the peak population of Edo at 1,100,000 by adding samurai and servants population as 500,000 (215,000 Hatamoto, Gokenin, their servants and families, 100,000 \"shōgun\"s Ashigaru, other lower servants and their families, 180,000 Daimyo, their servants and their families). Diaries recorded that the population of Edo was 1,287,800 in 1837, the population of monks and priests was ca. 40,000 or the samurai population of Edo was 700,973. According to the map of Edo illustrated in 1725, area for samurai occupied 66.4% of the total area of Edo (estimated population density: 13,988 /km for 650,000 individuals), while areas for chōnin and temples-shrines occupied 12.5% (estimated chōnin population density: 68,807 /km for 600,000 individuals) and 15.4% (estimated population density: 4,655 /km for 50,000 individuals), respectively.\nSelected recorded populations of urbans listed above are as follows. Sources for \"koseki\" censuses are given in .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27386122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27386122", "title": "Deshwali", "text": "Deshwali\n\nThe Deshwali , or sometimes pronounced Deswali, are a Tribal Rajput community found in the state of Rajasthan in India. A small number of Deshwali are found in the city of Hyderabad, Jharkhand .\n\nThe community get their name from word desh, which is the local Marwari language means land and wali, which is Persian (originally from Arabic) means lord, literally the word Deshwali means a feudal lord. The community are Rajput. They were soldiers in the army of Prithvi Raj Chauhan. They were early adopters of the Islam in India. They accepted Islam, via the preaching of the great Sufi preacher, Moinuddin Chishti. Deshwali community live in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh. Deshwali in Madhya Pradesh live in Indore, Barnagar, Ratlam. Deshwali in Rajasthan live in Nagour, Ajmer, Tonk, Bhilwara, Kota, Baran, Jhalawar, Bundi, Udaipur & Jaipur districts. They speak the Marwari dialect, with many having knowledge of Urdu.\n\nThe Deshwali are generally an endogamous community, although there are cases of intermarriage with the Qaimkhani and Pathan communities. They have no system of gotras, and practice both parallel and cross-cousin marriages. The community consists of large to medium-sized farmers, and like other Rajput groups in Rajasthan, have been affected by the abolishment of the Jagirdari system. A small number of Deshwali are sharecroppers and landless agricultural labourers. A few are also engaged in petty business, and the community has seen a growth in education and the start of urbanization. The Deshwali are Sunni and continue to pay special reverence to Moinuddin Chishti, the Sufi saint of Ajmer. They are relatively more orthodox than the Merat and Cheetah, neighbouring Muslim Rajput communities.\n\nIn addition to the Deswalis in India, there is also community of Deshwali found in the city of Hyderabad and adjoining rural areas. They maintain close relations with the Qaimkhani and Khanzada, two neighbouring Rajasthani communities found in Sindh. \n\n"}
{"id": "22107148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22107148", "title": "Dutch Surinamese", "text": "Dutch Surinamese\n\nDutch Surinamese () are Surinamese people of Dutch descent. \n\nDutch migrant settlers in search of a better life started arriving in Suriname (previously known as Dutch Guiana) in the 19th century with the \"boeroes\", poor farmers arriving from the Dutch provinces of Gelderland, Utrecht, and Groningen. Furthermore, the Surinamese ethnic group, the Creoles, persons of mixed African-European ancestry, are partially of Dutch descent.\n\nMany Dutch settlers left Suriname after independence in 1975, which diminished the white Dutch population. Currently there are around 1000 boeroes left in Suriname, and 3000 outside Suriname. Inside Suriname, they work in several sectors of society. Some families still work in the agricultural sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "54390443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54390443", "title": "Effacer le tableau", "text": "Effacer le tableau\n\nEffacer le tableau (\"erasing the board\") is the operational name given to the systematic extermination of the \nBambuti pygmies by rebel forces in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\n\nThe extermination was carried out by soldiers from the Movement for the Liberation of Congo (MLC), who became known to locals as \"les effaceurs\" (\"the erasers\"), and troops from the Rally for Congolese Democracy (RCD-N).\n\nThe primary objective of \"Effacer le tableau\" was the territorial conquest of the North Kivu province of the DRC. The Bambuti were targeted specifically as the rebels considered them \"subhuman\", and it was believed by the rebels that the flesh of the Bambuti held \"magical powers\". There were also been reports of cannibalism being widespread. It is estimated 60,000 to 70,000 Pygmy were killed in the campaign.\n\nIn March 2016 the International Criminal Court found Jean-Pierre Bemba guilty of human rights violations in the Central African Republic. Bemba was the vice president of the DRC, and leader of the MLC during the year long extermination campaign but was fully acquitted by the ICC's appeal court in June 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18803164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18803164", "title": "English people", "text": "English people\n\nThe English people are a nation and an ethnic group native to England who speak the English language. The English identity is of early medieval origin, when they were known in Old English as the \"Angelcynn\" (\"family of the Angles\"). Their ethnonym is derived from the Angles, one of the Germanic peoples who migrated to Great Britain around the 5th century AD. England is one of the countries of the United Kingdom, and the majority of people living there are British citizens.\n\nHistorically, the English population is descended from several peoples the earlier Celtic Britons (or Brythons) and the Germanic tribes that settled in Britain following the withdrawal of the Romans, including Angles, Saxons, Jutes and Frisians. Collectively known as the Anglo-Saxons, they founded what was to become England (from the Old English \"Englaland\") along with the later Danes, Anglo-Normans and other groups. In the Acts of Union 1707, the Kingdom of England was succeeded by the Kingdom of Great Britain. Over the years, English customs and identity have become fairly closely aligned with British customs and identity in general.\n\nToday many English people have recent forebears from other parts of the United Kingdom, while some are also descended from more recent immigrants from other European countries and from the Commonwealth.\n\nThe English people are the source of the English language, the Westminster system, the common law system and numerous major sports such as cricket, football, rugby union, rugby league and tennis. These and other English cultural characteristics have spread worldwide, in part as a result of the former British Empire.\n\nThe concept of an 'English nation' (as opposed to a British one) has become increasingly popular after the devolution process in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland resulted in the four nations having semi-independent political and legal systems. Although England itself has no devolved government, the 1990s witnessed a rise in English self-consciousness. This is linked to the expressions of national self-awareness of the other British nations of Wales and Scotland which take their most solid form in the new devolved political arrangements within the United Kingdom and the waning of a shared British national identity with the growing distance between the end of the British Empire and the present.\n\nMany recent immigrants to England have assumed a solely British identity, while others have developed dual or mixed identities. Use of the word \"English\" to describe Britons from ethnic minorities in England is complicated by most non-white people in England identifying as British rather than English. In their 2004 Annual Population Survey, the Office for National Statistics compared the \"ethnic\" identities of British people with their perceived national identity. They found that while 58% of white people in England described their nationality as \"English\", the vast majority of non-white people called themselves \"British\".\n\nIt is unclear how many British people consider themselves English. In the 2001 UK census, respondents were invited to state their ethnicity, but while there were tick boxes for 'Irish' and for 'Scottish', there were none for 'English', or 'Welsh', who were subsumed into the general heading 'White British'. Following complaints about this, the 2011 census was changed to \"allow respondents to record their English, Welsh, Scottish, Northern Irish, Irish or other identity.\" Another complication in defining the English is a common tendency for the words \"English\" and \"British\" to be used interchangeably, especially overseas. In his study of English identity, Krishan Kumar describes a common slip of the tongue in which people say \"English, I mean British\". He notes that this slip is normally made only by the English themselves and by foreigners: \"Non-English members of the United Kingdom rarely say 'British' when they mean 'English'\". Kumar suggests that although this blurring is a sign of England's dominant position with the UK, it is also \"problematic for the English [...] when it comes to conceiving of their national identity. It tells of the difficulty that most English people have of distinguishing themselves, in a collective way, from the other inhabitants of the British Isles\".\n\nIn 1965, the historian A. J. P. Taylor wrote,\nHowever, although Taylor believed this blurring effect was dying out, in his book \"The Isles\" (1999), Norman Davies lists numerous examples in history books of \"British\" still being used to mean \"English\" and vice versa.\n\nIn December 2010, Matthew Parris in \"The Spectator\", analysing the use of \"English\" over \"British\", argued that English identity, rather than growing, had existed all along but has recently been unmasked from behind a veneer of Britishness.\n\nThere is a debate between historians, geneticists and others about the extent to which historical changes in the culture of the British Isles corresponds to historical migration events of Germanic tribes, and to the extent of these migrations. The traditional view of historians, based on contemporary accounts and linguistic evidence, was that the English are primarily descended from the Anglo-Saxons, the term used to describe the various Germanic tribes that migrated to the island of Great Britain following the end of the Roman occupation of Britain, with assimilation of later migrants such as the Norse Vikings and Normans.\n\nThis belief is now regarded by many historians as incorrect, on the basis of more recent genetic and archaeological research. Based on a re-estimation of the number of settlers, some have taken the view that it is highly unlikely that the British Celtic-speaking population was substantially displaced by the Anglo-Saxons and that instead a process of acculturation took place, with an Anglo-Saxon ruling elite imposing their culture on the local populations. Research into the genetic history of the British Isles, conducted by Stephen Oppenheimer in 2007 appears to support this theory, not showing a clear dividing line between the English and their 'Celtic' neighbours but a gradual clinal change from west coast Britain to east coast Britain, originating from upper palaeolithic and Mesolithic era variations in a pre-Indo-European population, which Oppenheimer argues form the basis of the modern population of the British Isles rather than Germanic tribes or Celts. More recent genetic studies of ancient British DNA have refuted the hypothesis that the Anglo-Saxon invaders formed an elite class largely separate from the indigenous population, finding that samples from culturally Anglo-Saxon graveyards contained individuals who were more Celtic, suggesting a high level of intermingling between the Anglo-Saxons and the native Britons.\n\nThe 2016 study authored by Stephan Schiffels et al. found the Anglo-Saxons to have significantly impacted the genetic composition of the British Isles, so that on average the contemporary East English population derives 38 percent of its ancestry from Anglo-Saxon migrations, with this proportion varying in other parts of Britain that saw less of the migration or the migration of different Germanic tribes.\n\nThe theory that the English people are primarily descended from Anglo-Saxons is based largely on the dramatic cultural changes in Britain following their migration. The Celtic language was almost totally displaced by Old English and there was a complete shift towards North-West German farming methods and pottery styles. The Brythonic languages such as Cornish, Cumbric and Welsh, held on for several centuries in parts of western England such as Cornwall, Devon, Cumbria and a part of Lancashire.\n\nMany historians, while making allowance for the limited survival of the Britons in England, hold to the view that there was significant displacement of the indigenous population after the Germanic migrations.\n\nThe first people to be called 'English' were the Anglo-Saxons, a group of closely related Germanic tribes that began migrating to eastern and southern Great Britain, from southern Denmark and northern Germany, in the 5th century AD, after the Romans had withdrawn from Britain. The Anglo-Saxons gave their name to England (\"Engla land\", meaning \"Land of the Angles\") and to the English.\nThe Anglo-Saxons arrived in a land that was already populated by people commonly referred to as the 'Romano-British'—the descendants of the native Brythonic-speaking population that lived in the area of Britain under Roman rule during the 1st–5th centuries AD. The multi-ethnic nature of the Roman Empire meant that small numbers of other peoples may have also been present in England before the Anglo-Saxons arrived. There is archaeological evidence, for example, of an early North African presence in a Roman garrison at Aballava, now Burgh-by-Sands, in Cumbria: a 4th-century inscription says that the Roman military unit \"Numerus Maurorum Aurelianorum\" (\"unit of Aurelian Moors\") from Mauretania (Morocco) was stationed there. Although the Roman Empire incorporated peoples from far and wide, genetic studies suggest the Romans did not significantly mix into the British population.\n\nThe exact nature of the arrival of the Anglo-Saxons and their relationship with the Romano-British is a matter of debate. Traditionally, it was believed that a mass invasion by various Anglo-Saxon tribes largely displaced the indigenous British population in southern and eastern Great Britain (modern-day England with the exception of Cornwall). This was supported by the writings of Gildas, the only contemporary historical account of the period, describing slaughter and starvation of native Britons by invading tribes (\"aduentus Saxonum\"). Furthermore, the English language contains no more than a handful of words borrowed from Brythonic sources.\n\nHowever, this view has been re-evaluated by some archaeologists and historians since the 1960s; and more recently supported by genetic studies, which see only minimal evidence for mass displacement. Archaeologist Francis Pryor has stated that he \"can't see any evidence for \"bona fide\" mass migrations after the Neolithic.\"\n\nWhile the historian Malcolm Todd writes \"It is much more likely that a large proportion of the British population remained in place and was progressively dominated by a Germanic aristocracy, in some cases marrying into it and leaving Celtic names in the, admittedly very dubious, early lists of Anglo-Saxon dynasties. But how we identify the surviving Britons in areas of predominantly Anglo-Saxon settlement, either archaeologically or linguistically, is still one of the deepest problems of early English history.\"\n\nIn a survey of the genes of British and Irish men, even those British regions that were most genetically similar to (Germanic speaking) continental regions were still more genetically British than continental: \"When included in the PC analysis, the Frisians were more 'Continental' than any of the British samples, although they were somewhat closer to the British ones than the North German/Denmark sample. For example, the part of mainland Britain that has the most Continental input is Central England, but even here the AMH+1 frequency, not below 44% (Southwell), is higher than the 35% observed in the Frisians. These results demonstrate that even with the choice of Frisians as a source for the Anglo-Saxons, there is a clear indication of a continuing indigenous component in the English paternal genetic makeup.\"\n\nIn 2016, through the investigation of burials using ancient DNA techniques, researchers found evidence of intermarriage in the earliest phase of Anglo-Saxon settlement. By studying rare mutations and employing whole genome sequencing, it was claimed that the continental and insular origins of the ancient remains could be discriminated, and it was calculated that 25–40% of the ancestry of the modern English is attributable to continental 'Anglo-Saxon' origins.\n\nFrom about 800 AD waves of Danish Viking assaults on the coastlines of the British Isles were gradually followed by a succession of Danish settlers in England. At first, the Vikings were very much considered a separate people from the English. This separation was enshrined when Alfred the Great signed the Treaty of Alfred and Guthrum to establish the Danelaw, a division of England between English and Danish rule, with the Danes occupying northern and eastern England.\n\nHowever, Alfred's successors subsequently won military victories against the Danes, incorporating much of the Danelaw into the nascent kingdom of England. Danish invasions continued into the 11th century, and there were both English and Danish kings in the period following the unification of England (for example, Æthelred II (978–1013 and 1014–1016) was English but Cnut (1016–1035) was Danish).\n\nGradually, the Danes in England came to be seen as 'English'. They had a noticeable impact on the English language: many English words, such as \"anger\", \"ball\", \"egg\", \"got\", \"knife\", \"take\", and \"they\", are of Old Norse origin, and place names that end in \"-thwaite\" and \"-by\" are Scandinavian in origin.\n\nThe English population was not politically unified until the 10th century. Before then, it consisted of a number of petty kingdoms which gradually coalesced into a Heptarchy of seven powerful states, the most powerful of which were Mercia and Wessex. The English nation state began to form when the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms united against Danish Viking invasions, which began around 800 AD. Over the following century and a half England was for the most part a politically unified entity, and remained permanently so after 959.\n\nThe nation of England was formed in 937 by Æthelstan of Wessex after the Battle of Brunanburh, as Wessex grew from a relatively small kingdom in the South West to become the founder of the Kingdom of the English, incorporating all Anglo-Saxon kingdoms and the Danelaw.\n\nThe Norman conquest of England during 1066 brought Anglo-Saxon and Danish rule of England to an end, as the new French speaking Norman elite almost universally replaced the Anglo-Saxon aristocracy and church leaders. After the conquest, \"English\" normally included all natives of England, whether they were of Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian or Celtic ancestry, to distinguish them from the Norman invaders, who were regarded as \"Norman\" even if born in England, for a generation or two after the Conquest. The Norman dynasty ruled England for 87 years until the death of King Stephen in 1154, when the succession passed to Henry II, House of Plantagenet (based in France), and England became part of the Angevin Empire until 1399.\n\nVarious contemporary sources suggest that within 50 years of the invasion most of the Normans outside the royal court had switched to English, with Anglo-Norman remaining the prestige language of government and law largely out of social inertia. For example, Orderic Vitalis, a historian born in 1075 and the son of a Norman knight, said that he learned French only as a second language. Anglo-Norman continued to be used by the Plantagenet kings until Edward I came to the throne. Over time the English language became more important even in the court, and the Normans were gradually assimilated, until, by the 14th century, both rulers and subjects regarded themselves as English and spoke the English language.\n\nDespite the assimilation of the Normans, the distinction between 'English' and 'French' survived in official documents long after it had fallen out of common use, in particular in the legal phrase \"Presentment of Englishry\" (a rule by which a hundred had to prove an unidentified murdered body found on their soil to be that of an Englishman, rather than a Norman, if they wanted to avoid a fine). This law was abolished in 1340.\n\nSince the 18th century, England has been one part of a wider political entity covering all or part of the British Isles, which today is called the United Kingdom. Wales was annexed by England by the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542, which incorporated Wales into the English state. A new British identity was subsequently developed when James VI of Scotland became James I of England as well, and expressed the desire to be known as the monarch of Britain.\n\nIn 1707, England formed a union with Scotland by passing an Act of Union in March 1707 that ratified the Treaty of Union. The Parliament of Scotland had previously passed its own Act of Union, so the Kingdom of Great Britain was born on 1 May 1707. In 1801, another Act of Union formed a union between the Kingdom of Great Britain and the Kingdom of Ireland, creating the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. In 1922, about two-thirds of the Irish population (those who lived in 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland), left the United Kingdom to form the Irish Free State. The remainder became the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, although this name was not introduced until 1927, after some years in which the term \"United Kingdom\" had been little used.\n\nThroughout the history of the UK, the English have been dominant in population and in political weight. As a consequence, notions of 'Englishness' and 'Britishness' are often very similar. At the same time, after the Union of 1707, the English, along with the other peoples of the British Isles, have been encouraged to think of themselves as British rather than to identify themselves with the constituent nations.\n\nEngland has been the destination of varied numbers of migrants at different periods from the 17th century onwards. While some members of these groups seek to practise a form of pluralism, attempting to maintain a separate ethnic identity, others have assimilated and intermarried with the English. Since Oliver Cromwell's resettlement of the Jews in 1656, there have been waves of Jewish immigration from Russia in the 19th century and from Germany in the 20th.\n\nAfter the French king Louis XIV declared Protestantism illegal in 1685 in the Edict of Fontainebleau, an estimated 50,000 Protestant Huguenots fled to England. Due to sustained and sometimes mass emigration of the Irish, current estimates indicate that around 6 million people in the UK have at least one grandparent born in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThere has been a black presence in England since the 16th century due to the slave trade, and an Indian presence since at least the 17th century because of the East India Company and British Raj. Black and Asian populations have grown throughout the UK generally, as immigration from the British Empire and the subsequent Commonwealth of Nations was encouraged due to labour shortages during post-war rebuilding. \nHowever, these groups are often still considered to be ethnic minorities and research has shown that black and Asian people in the UK are more likely to identify as British rather than with one of the state's four constituent nations, including England.\n\nThe 1990s witnessed a resurgence of English national identity. Survey data shows a rise in the number of people in England describing their national identity as English and a fall in the number describing themselves as British. Today, black and minority ethnic people of England still generally identify as British rather than English to a greater extent than their white counterparts; however, groups such as the Campaign for an English Parliament (CEP) suggest the emergence of a broader civic and multi-ethnic English nationhood. Scholars and journalists have noted a rise in English self-consciousness, with increased use of the English flag, particularly at football matches where the Union flag was previously more commonly flown by fans.\n\nThis perceived rise in English self-consciousness has generally been attributed to the devolution in the late 1990s of some powers to the Scottish Parliament and National Assembly for Wales. In policy areas for which the devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have responsibility, the UK Parliament votes on laws that consequently only apply to England. Because the Westminster Parliament is composed of MPs from throughout the United Kingdom, this has given rise to the \"West Lothian question\", a reference to the situation in which MPs representing constituencies outside England can vote on matters affecting only England, but MPs cannot vote on the same matters in relation to the other parts of the UK. Consequently, groups such as the CEP have called for the creation of a devolved English Parliament, claiming that there is now a discriminatory democratic deficit against the English. The establishment of an English parliament has also been backed by a number of Scottish and Welsh nationalists. Writer Paul Johnson has suggested that like most dominant groups, the English have only demonstrated interest in their ethnic self-definition when they were feeling oppressed.\n\nJohn Curtice argues that \"In the early years of devolution...there was little sign\" of an English backlash against devolution for Scotland and Wales, but that more recently survey data shows tentative signs of \"a form of English nationalism...beginning to emerge among the general public\". Michael Kenny, Richard English and Richard Hayton, meanwhile, argue that the resurgence in English nationalism predates devolution, being observable in the early 1990s, but that this resurgence does not necessarily have negative implications for the perception of the UK as a political union. Others question whether devolution has led to a rise in English national identity at all, arguing that survey data fails to portray the complex nature of national identities, with many people considering themselves both English \"and\" British.\n\nRecent surveys of public opinion on the establishment of an English parliament have given widely varying conclusions. In the first five years of devolution for Scotland and Wales, support in England for the establishment of an English parliament was low at between 16 and 19%, according to successive British Social Attitudes Surveys. A report, also based on the British Social Attitudes Survey, published in December 2010 suggests that only 29% of people in England support the establishment of an English parliament, though this figure had risen from 17% in 2007.\nOne 2007 poll carried out for BBC \"Newsnight\", however, found that 61 per cent would support such a parliament being established. Krishan Kumar notes that support for measures to ensure that only English MPs can vote on legislation that applies only to England is generally higher than that for the establishment of an English parliament, although support for both varies depending on the timing of the opinion poll and the wording of the question. Electoral support for English nationalist parties is also low, even though there is public support for many of the policies they espouse. The English Democrats gained just 64,826 votes in the 2010 UK general election, accounting for 0.3 per cent of all votes cast in England. Kumar argued in 2010 that \"despite devolution and occasional bursts of English nationalism – more an expression of exasperation with the Scots or Northern Irish – the English remain on the whole satisfied with current constitutional arrangements\".\n\nFrom the earliest times English people have left England to settle in other parts of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, but it is not possible to identify their numbers, as British censuses have historically not invited respondents to identify themselves as English. However, the census does record place of birth, revealing that 8.08% of Scotland's population, 3.66% of the population of Northern Ireland and 20% of the Welsh population were born in England. Similarly, the census of the Republic of Ireland does not collect information on ethnicity, but it does record that there are over 200,000 people living in Ireland who were born in England and Wales.\n\nEnglish ethnic descent and emigrant communities are found primarily in the Western World, and in some places, settled in significant numbers. Substantial populations descended from English colonists and immigrants exist in the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand.\n\nIn the 2016 American Community Survey, English Americans were (7.4%) of the United States population behind the German Americans (13.9%) and Irish Americans (10.0%). However, demographers regard this as a serious undercount, as the index of inconsistency is high, and many, if not most, people from English stock have a tendency (since the introduction of a new 'American' category in the 2000 census) to identify as simply Americans or if of mixed European ancestry, identify with a more recent and differentiated ethnic group.\n\nIn the 2000 census, 24,509,692 Americans described their ancestry as wholly or partly English. In addition, 1,035,133 recorded British ancestry. This was a numerical decrease from the census in 1990 where 32,651,788 people or 13.1% of the population self-identified with English ancestry. \n\nIn the 1980 census, over 49 million (49,598,035) Americans claimed English ancestry, at the time around 26.34% of the total population and largest reported group which, even today, would make them the largest ethnic group in the United States. Scots-Irish Americans are descendants of Lowland Scots and Northern English (specifically: County Durham, Cumberland, Northumberland and Westmorland) settlers who colonised Ireland during the Plantation of Ulster in the 17th century.\n\nAmericans of English heritage are often seen, and identify, as simply \"American\" due to the many historic cultural ties between England and the U.S. and their influence on the country's population. Relative to ethnic groups of other European origins, this may be due to the early establishment of English settlements; as well as to non-English groups having emigrated in order to establish significant communities.\n\nIn the Canada 2016 Census, 'English' was the most common ethnic origin (ethnic origin refers to the ethnic or cultural group(s) to which the respondent's ancestors belong) recorded by respondents; 6,320,085 people or 18.3% of the population self-identified themselves as wholly or partly English. On the other hand, people identifying as Canadian but not English may have previously identified as English before the option of identifying as Canadian was available.\n\nFrom the beginning of the colonial era until the mid-20th century, the vast majority of settlers to Australia were from the British Isles, with the English being the dominant group. Among the leading ancestries, increases in Australian, Irish and German ancestries and decreases in English, Scottish and Welsh ancestries appear to reflect such shifts in perception or reporting. These reporting shifts at least partly resulted from changes in the design of the census question, in particular the introduction of a tick box format in 2001.\nEnglish Australians have more often come from the south than the north of England.\n\nAustralians of English descent, are both the single largest ethnic group in Australia and the largest 'ancestry' identity in the Australian census.\nIn the 2016 census, 7.8 million or 36.1% of the population identified as \"English\" or a combination including English, a numerical increase from 7.2 million over the 2011 census figure. The census also documented 907,572 residents or 3.9% of Australia as being born in England, and are the largest overseas-born population.\n\nSince the 1980s there have been increasingly large numbers of English people, estimated at over 3 million, permanently or semi-permanently living in Spain and France, drawn there by the climate and cheaper house prices.\n\nSignificant numbers of people with at least some English ancestry also live in New Zealand, South Africa and South America.\n\nThe culture of England is sometimes difficult to separate clearly from the culture of the United Kingdom, so influential has English culture been on the cultures of the British Isles and, on the other hand, given the extent to which other cultures have influenced life in England.\n\nEnglish people traditionally speak the English language, a member of the West Germanic language family, first spoken in early medieval England. It is closely related to the Frisian languages, but its vocabulary has been significantly influenced by other Germanic languages, particularly Norse (a North Germanic language), as well as by Latin and French. The three largest recognisable dialect groups in England are Southern English dialects, Midlands English dialects and Northern English dialects.\nThose in the north generally pronounce such words with a short vowel whereas those in the south use a long vowel.\n\nThe established religion of the realm is the Church of England, whose Titular head is Queen Elizabeth II although the worldwide Anglican Communion is overseen by the General Synod of its bishops under the authority of Parliament. 26 of the church's 42 bishops are Lords Spiritual, representing the church in the House of Lords. In 2010, the Church of England counted 25 million baptised members out of the 41 million Christians in Great Britain's population of about 60 million; around the same time, it also claimed to baptise one in eight newborn children. Generally, anyone in England may marry or be buried at their local parish church, whether or not they have been baptised in the church. Actual attendance has declined steadily since 1890, with around one million, or 10% of the baptised population attending Sunday services on a regular basis (defined as once a month or more) and three million- roughly 15%- joining Christmas Eve and Christmas services.\n\nSaint George is recognised as the patron saint of England and the flag of England consists of his cross. Prior to Edward III, the patron saint was St Edmund and St Alban is also honoured as England's first martyr.\nA survey carried out in the end of 2008 by Ipsos MORI on behalf of The Catholic Agency For Overseas Development found the population of England and Wales to be 47.0% affiliated with the Church of England, which is also the state church, 9.6% with the Roman Catholic Church and 8.7% were other Christians, mainly Free church Protestants and Eastern Orthodox Christians. 4.8% were Muslim, 3.4% were members of other religions, 5.3% were Agnostics, 6.8% were Atheists and 15.0% were not sure about their religious affiliation or refused to answer to the question.\n\n\n\nLanguage:\n\nDiaspora:\n\n Sanfins, Nuno: \"England and its people\" (1973) and \"England's Evolution\"(2003)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37816243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37816243", "title": "Family planning policy", "text": "Family planning policy\n\nThe family planning policy, which is based on the two-child policy and the one-child policy, is a population planning policy of China. It was introduced from the 1950s \"recommendation\", and evolved to the one-child policy introduced between 1978 and 1980 and began to be formally phased out in 2015. The policy allowed many exceptions and ethnic minorities were exempt. In 2007, 36% of China's population was subject to a strict one-child restriction, with an additional 53% being allowed to have a second child if the first child was a girl. Provincial governments imposed fines for violations, and the local and national governments created commissions to raise awareness and carry out registration and inspection work.\n\nAccording to the Chinese government, 400 million births were prevented, this claim has been called \"bogus\", \"three-quarters of the decline in fertility since 1970 occurred before the launching of the one-child policy; and most of the further decline in fertility since 1980 can be attributed to economic development\" Thailand, Iran, Indian states of Kerala, Tamil Nadu have had similar declines of fertility without one child policy. Although 76% of Chinese supported the policy in 2008, it is controversial outside of China.\n\nOn 29 October 2015, it was reported that the existing law would be changed to a two-child policy, citing a statement from the Communist Party of China. The new law became effective from 1 January 2016, following its passage in the standing committee of the National People's Congress on 27 December 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "45137081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45137081", "title": "Green Chemistry Award", "text": "Green Chemistry Award\n\nFirst awarded in 2001, the Green Chemistry Award is presented biennially by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) for advances in environmentally focused chemistry. In addition to a prize of £2000, winners of the award complete a UK based lecture tour. The Award was last presented in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "21812640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21812640", "title": "Gustavo Gelpí", "text": "Gustavo Gelpí\n\nGustavo Antonio Gelpí, Jr. (born 1965) is the Chief Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico. At age 40, he was the youngest judge at the time of his appointment.\n\nBorn in 1965, in San Juan, Puerto Rico, Gelpí received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Brandeis University in 1987 and a Juris Doctor from Suffolk University Law School in 1991 (from which he also received an Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree in 2006). He was a law clerk to Juan M. Perez-Gimenez of the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico from 1991 to 1993. Gelpí was then an assistant federal public defender in the Office of the Federal Public Defender from 1993 to 1997. He worked in Puerto Rico's Department of Justice from 1997 to 1999, first as an assistant to the attorney general, and then as assistant attorney general for the office of legal counsel. During Puerto Rico Governor Pedro Rosselló's second term, Gelpí served as Puerto Rico's Solicitor General from 1999-2000, and in said capacity argued several landmark cases on behalf of the Government of Puerto Rico before the United States Courts of Appeal for the First, Second and DC Circuits, as well as the Puerto Rico Supreme Court. He was a special litigation counsel in the law firm of McConnell Valdes in 2001, but left that position to become a United States Magistrate Judge, an office that he held for five years, from 2001 to 2006.\n\nOn April 24, 2006, Gelpí was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the District of Puerto Rico vacated by Hector M. Laffitte. He was endorsed by the Hispanic National Bar Association and the Puerto Rico Chapter of the Federal Bar Association. Gelpí was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate on July 20, 2006, and received his commission on August 1, 2006. He has been serving as Chief Judge since April 13, 2018.\n\nIn September 2013 Judge Gelpi became National President of the Federal Bar Association, becoming only the second Hispanic and first federal judge to achieve this milestone. He is also a Sustaining Life Fellow of the Foundation of the Federal Bar Association.\n\nHe is the author of a court opinion in the case of Consejo de Salud de la Playa de Ponce vs. Rullan, that holds that Puerto Rico is no longer an unincorporated territory of the United States, and has thus become an incorporated territory. In his opinion, Judge Gelpi notes that his ruling doesn't override the United Supreme Court's Insular Cases.\n\nJudge Gelpi has participated in Hawaii, Alaska, Chicago, Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, New York and Boston in a series of scholarly historical lectures sponsored by the Federal Bar Association about the racist underpinnings of the Insular Cases, and how the Supreme Court and the US Congress have disparately treated the US citizens residing in the former and current US territories. On August 14, 2014, Judge Gelpi presented at the Interamerican University former Governor Rafael Hernandez-Colon's book about the nature and development of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Acknowledging that he did not agree with all of the former governor's pronouncements, he nonetheless urged all students to read the same because it is important for understanding the constitutional history of Puerto Rico. In April of the following year, Judge Gelpi presented former Governor Pedro Rossello's book El Ultimo Enclave del Colonialismo (The Last Enclave of Colonialism) at the Puerto Rico Art Museum. Both governors, in turn, wrote preambles to Judge Gelpi's book The Constitutional Evolution of Puerto Rico and Other U.S. Territories 1898–Present, published by Interamerican University in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "44355089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44355089", "title": "Haji Ghulam Ali", "text": "Haji Ghulam Ali\n\nIn March 2009 he was elected to the Senate of Pakistan on general seat as Jameet Ulema Islam (F) candidate. He is the chairperson of senate committee on Commerce and Textile Industry, and member: committee of States and Frontier Regions, Inter-Provincial Coordination and Parliamentary Affairs.\n\n"}
{"id": "35888557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35888557", "title": "Helmet of Agighiol", "text": "Helmet of Agighiol\n\nThe Helmet of Agighiol () is a Getae silver helmet dating from the 5th century BC, housed in the National Museum of Romanian History, Bucharest.\n\nIt comes from Agighiol area, in the Tulcea County, Romania.\n\nThe helmet is similar to the Helmet of Coţofeneşti and other three Getian gold or silver helmets discovered so far.\n\n"}
{"id": "204479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204479", "title": "Homophile", "text": "Homophile\n\nThe words homophile and homophilia are dated terms for homosexuality. The use of the word began to disappear with the emergence of the gay liberation movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s, replaced by a new set of terminology that provides a much clearer identity such as gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender.\n\nThe term \"homophile\" is favoured by some because it emphasizes love (\"-phile\" from Greek φιλία) rather than sex. The first element of the word, the Greek root \"homo-\", means \"same\"; it is unrelated to Latin \"homo\", \"person\". Coined by the German astrologist, author and psychoanalyst Karl-Günther Heimsoth in his 1924 doctoral dissertation \"Hetero- und Homophilie\", the term was in common use in the 1950s and 1960s by homosexual organizations and publications; the groups of this period are now known collectively as the homophile movement.\n\nThe Church of England has used the term \"homophile\" in certain contexts since at least 1991 – e.g., \"homophile orientation,\" and \"sexually active homophile relationship.\"\n\nIn almost all languages where the words \"homophile\" and \"homosexual\" were both in use (i.e., their cognate equivalents: German \"Homophil\" and \"Homosexuell\", Italian \"omofilo\" and \"omosessuale\", etc.), \"homosexual\" won out as the modern conventional neutral term. One exception is Norwegian, where the opposite happened, and \"homofil[i]\" is the modern conventional neutral term for \"homosexual[ity]\" in Norwegian. Quoting and translating from the Norwegian (Nynorsk) Wikipedia article :\n\n[...] In British English and American English, \"homophilia\" was used to some extent; but by the end of the 1960s, it was replaced [in those languages] by \"homosexual\", \"gay\", and \"lesbian\". \"Homofili\" was first used in Norwegian in a 1951 brochure from the Norwegian branch of the Danish \"League of 1948\". Norway is one of the few countries where this trend [to use words based on \"homophil-\" instead of \"homosexual-\"] is still widespread.\n\nAfter the gains made by the homosexual rights movements of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the vibrant homosexual subcultures of the 1920s and '30s became silent as war engulfed Europe. Germany was the traditional home of such movements (Scientific-Humanitarian Committee) and activists (Magnus Hirschfeld, Ernst Burchard, Karl Heinrich Ulrichs or Max Spohr), but in Nazi Germany gay literature was burned, gay organizations were dissolved, and many gay men imprisoned in concentration camps. The Swiss journal \"Der Kreis\" (\"the circle\") was the only homosexual publication in Europe to publish during the Nazi era. \"Der Kreis\" was edited by Anna Vock, and later Karl Meier; the group gradually shifted from being female-dominated to male-dominated through the 1930s, as the tone of the magazine simultaneously became less militant.\n\nAfter the war, organizations began to re-form, such as the Dutch COC in 1946. Other, new organizations arose, including Forbundet af 1948 (\"League of 1948\"), founded by Axel Axgil in Denmark, with Helmer Fogedgaard publishing an associated magazine called \"Vennen\" (The Friend) from January 1949 until 1953. Fogedgaard used the pseudonym \"Homophilos,\" introducing the concept of \"homophile\" in May 1950, unaware that the word had been presented as an alternative term a few months previously by , one of the founders of the Dutch COC. The word soon spread among members of the emerging post-war movement who were happy to emphasize the respectable romantic side of their relationships over genital sexuality.\n\nA Swedish branch of Forbundet af 1948 was formed in 1949 and a Norwegian branch in 1950. The Swedish organization became independent under the name \"Riksförbundet för sexuellt likaberättigande\" (RFSL, \"Federation for Sexual Equality\") in 1950, led by Allan Hellman. The same year in the United States, the Mattachine Society was formed, and other organizations such as ONE, Inc. (1952) and the Daughters of Bilitis (1955) soon followed. By 1954, the monthly sales of ONE's magazine peaked at 16,000. Homophile organizations elsewhere include Arcadie (1954) in France and the British Homosexual Law Reform Society (founded 1958).\n\nThese groups are generally considered to have been politically cautious, in comparison to the LGBT movements that both preceded and followed them. Historian Michael Sibalis describes the belief of the French homophile group Arcadie, \"that public hostility to homosexuals resulted largely from their outrageous and promiscuous behaviour; homophiles would win the good opinion of the public and the authorities by showing themselves to be discreet, dignified, virtuous and respectable.\" However, while few were prepared to come out, they did risk severe persecution, and some figures within the Homophile movement such as the American communist Harry Hay were more radical.\n\nIn 1951, the president and vice-president of the Dutch COC initiated an International Congress of European homophile groups, which resulted in the formation of the International Committee for Sexual Equality (ICSE). The ICSE brought together, among other groups, the Forbundet of 1948 (Scandinavia), the Riksförbundet för Sexuellt Likaberättigande (Sweden), Arcadie (France), Der Kreis (Swiss), and, later, ONE (U.S.A.). Historian Leila Rupp describes the ICSE as a classic example of transnational organizing; \"It created a network across national borders, nurtured a transnational homophile identity, and engaged in activism designed to change both laws and minds.\" However, the ICSE failed to last beyond the early 1960s due to poor attendance at meetings, lack of active leaders, and failure of members to pay dues.\n\nBy the mid-1960s, gays, lesbians and transgender people in the United States were forming more visible communities, and this was reflected in the political strategies of American homophile groups. From the mid-1960s, they engaged in picketing and sit-ins, identifying themselves in public space for the first time. Formed in 1964, the San Franciscan Society for Individual Rights (SIR) had a new openness and a more participatory democratic structure. SIR was focused on building community, and sponsored drag shows, dinners, bridge clubs, bowling leagues, softball games, field trips, art classes and meditation groups. In 1966, SIR opened the nation's first gay and lesbian community center, and by 1968 they had over 1000 members, making them the largest homophile organization in the country. The world's first gay bookstore had opened in New York the year before. A 1965 gay picket held in front of Independence Hall in Philadelphia, according to some historians, marked the beginning of the modern gay rights movement. Meanwhile, in San Francisco in 1966, transgender street prostitutes in the poor neighborhood of Tenderloin rioted against police harassment at a popular all-night restaurant, Gene Compton's Cafeteria. These and other activities of public resistance to oppression lead to a feeling of Gay Liberation that was soon to give a name to a new movement.\nIn 1963, homophile organizations in New York City, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. joined together to form East Coast Homophile Organizations (ECHO) to more closely coordinate their activities. The success of ECHO inspired other homophile groups across the country to explore the idea of forming a national homophile umbrella group. This was done with the formation in 1966 of the North American Conference of Homophile Organizations (NACHO, rhymes with Waco). NACHO held annual conferences, helped start dozens of local gay groups across the country and issued position papers on a variety of LGBT-related issues. It organized national demonstrations, including a May 1966 action against military discrimination that included the country's first gay motorcade. Through its legal defense fund, NACHO challenged anti-gay laws and regulations ranging from immigration issues and military service to the legality of serving alcohol to homosexuals. NACHO disbanded after a contentious 1970 conference at which older members and younger members, radicalized in the wake of the 1969 Stonewall riots, clashed. \"Gay Sunshine\" magazine declared the convention \"the battle that ended the homophile movement\".\n\nDenmark\n\nFrance\n\nNetherlands\n\nSweden\n\nUnited Kingdom\n\nUnited States\n\nInternational\n\n\nNotes\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "34198336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34198336", "title": "Independence of Croatia", "text": "Independence of Croatia\n\nThe independence of Croatia was a process started with the changes in the political system and the constitutional changes in 1990 that transformed the Socialist Republic of Croatia into the Republic of Croatia, which in turn proclaimed the Christmas Constitution, and held the Croatian independence referendum, 1991.\n\nAfter the country formally declared independence in June 1991, and the dissolution of its association with SFR Yugoslavia, it introduced a three-month moratorium on the decision when urged to do so by the European Community and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. During that time the Croatian War of Independence started.\n\nOn 8 October 1991, the Croatian Parliament severed all remaining ties with Yugoslavia. The Badinter Arbitration Committee had to rule on the matter. Finally, the Croatian independence was internationally recognized in January 1992, when both the European Economic Community and the United Nations granted Croatia diplomatic recognition, and the country was accepted into the United Nations shortly thereafter.\n\nDuring the World War II period from 1941 to 1945, Croatia was established as a puppet state called the Independent State of Croatia, governed by the ultranationalist, fascist Ustaše, backed by Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy within the territory of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. From 1945 it became a Socialist federal unit of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a one-party state run by the League of Communists of Croatia created at the end of World War II in Yugoslavia. Croatia enjoyed a degree of autonomy within the Yugoslav federation. At the turn of the 1970s, a Croatian national protest movement called the Croatian Spring was suppressed by Yugoslav leadership. Still, the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution gave increased autonomy to federal units, essentially fulfilling a goal of the Croatian Spring and providing a legal basis for independence of the federative constituents.\n\nIn the 1980s, the political situation in Yugoslavia deteriorated, with national tension fanned by the 1986 Serbian SANU Memorandum and the 1989 coups in Vojvodina, Kosovo and Montenegro.\nAs Slovenia and Croatia began to seek greater autonomy within the federation, including confederate status and even full independence, the nationalist ideas started to grow within the ranks of the still-ruling League of Communists. As Slobodan Milošević rose to power in Serbia, his speeches favored continuation of a unified Yugoslav state—one in which all power would be centralized in Belgrade. In March 1989, the crisis in Yugoslavia deepened after the adoption of amendments to the Serbian constitution that allowed the Serbian republic's government to re-assert effective power over the autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina. Up until that time, a number of political decisions were legislated from within these provinces, and they had a vote on the Yugoslav federal presidency level (six members from the republics and two members from the autonomous provinces). \nIn the Gazimestan speech, delivered on June 28, 1989, Milošević remarked on the current \"battles and quarrels\", saying that even though there were currently no armed battles, the possibility could not be excluded yet. The general political situation grew more tense when in 1989 Vojislav Šešelj publicly consorted with Momčilo Đujić, a World War II Chetnik leader. Years later, Croatian Serb leader Milan Babić testified that Momčilo Đujić had financially supported the Serbs in Croatia in the 1990s. Conversely, Franjo Tuđman made international visits during the late 1980s to garner support from the Croatian diaspora for the Croatian national cause.\n\nIn mid-1989, political parties other than the Communist Party were first allowed, starting a transition from the one-party system. A number of new parties were founded in Croatia, including the Croatian Democratic Union () (HDZ), led by Franjo Tuđman.\n\nIn January 1990, the Communist Party fragmented along national lines, with the Croatian faction demanding a looser federation. At the 14th Extraordinary Congress of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia, on 20 January 1990, the delegations of the republics could not agree on the main issues in the Yugoslav federation. The Croatian and Slovenian delegations demanded a looser federation, while the Serbian delegation, headed by Milošević, opposed this. As a result, the Slovenian and Croatian delegates left the Congress. Having completed the anti-bureaucratic revolution in Vojvodina, Kosovo, and Montenegro, Serbia secured four out of eight federal presidency votes in 1991, and it was able to heavily influence decision-making at the federal level, because unfavorable decisions could be blocked; this rendered the governing body ineffective. This situation led to objections from other republics and calls for reform of the Yugoslav Federation.\n\nIn February 1990, Jovan Rašković founded the Serb Democratic Party (SDS) in Knin. Its program stated that the \"regional division of Croatia is outdated\" and that it \"does not correspond with the interest of Serb people\". The party program endorsed redrawing regional and municipal lines to reflect the ethnic composition of the areas, and asserted the right of territories with a \"special ethnic composition\" to become autonomous. This echoed Milošević position that internal Yugoslav borders should be redrawn to permit all Serbs to live in a single country. Prominent members of the SDS were Milan Babić and Milan Martić, both of whom later became high-ranking RSK officials. During his later trial, Babić would testify that there was a media campaign directed from Belgrade that portrayed the Serbs in Croatia as being threatened with genocide by the Croat majority and that he fell prey to this propaganda. On 4 March 1990, a meeting of 50,000 Serbs was held at Petrova Gora. People at the rally shouted negative remarks aimed at Tuđman, chanted \"This is Serbia\", and expressed support for Milošević.\n\nIn late April and early May 1990, the first multi-party elections were held in Croatia, with Franjo Tuđman's win resulting in further nationalist tensions.\n\nA tense atmosphere prevailed in 1990: on May 13, 1990, a football game was held in Zagreb between Zagreb's Dinamo team and Belgrade's Crvena Zvezda team. The game erupted into violence between football fans and police.\n\nOn May 30, 1990, the new Croatian Parliament held its first session. President Tuđman announced his manifesto for a new Constitution and a multitude of political, economic, and social changes, including a plan for Yugoslavia as a confederation of sovereign states.\n\nOn July 25, 1990, Croatia made constitutional amendments that asserted and effected its sovereignty – the \"Socialist\" prefix was dropped from the country's name, the President of Croatia replaced the President of the Presidency, in addition to other changes.\nThe changes in the July 1990 Croatian Constitution did not relate to the status of the Serbs, which remained identical to the one granted by the 1974 Croatian Constitution (based on the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution).\n\nNationalist Serbs in Croatia boycotted the Sabor and seized control of Serb-inhabited territory, setting up road blocks and voting for those areas to become autonomous. The Serb \"autonomous oblasts\" would soon become increasingly intent on achieving independence from Croatia.\n\nAfter HDZ came to power, they conducted a purge of Serbs employed in public administration, especially the police. The Serbs of Croatia held a disproportionate number of official posts: in 1984, 22.6% of the members of the League of Communists of Croatia and 17.7% of appointed officials in Croatia were Serbs, including 28-31% in the Ministry of the Interior (the police). Whereas, in 1981, they represented 11.5% and in 1991, 12.2% of the total population of Croatia. An even greater proportion of those posts had been held by Serbs in Croatia earlier on, which created a perception that the Serbs were guardians of the communist regime.\n\nPresident Tuđman made several clumsy remarks — such as the one from an April 16, 1990 speech that he was 'glad that his wife is not a Serb' that was taken out of context. All this was deliberately distorted by Milošević's media in order to artificially spark fear that any form of an independent Croatia is a new \"ustashe state\": in one instance, TV Belgrade showed Tuđman shaking hands with German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, accusing them of plotting to impose \"a Fourth Reich\". The new Tuđman government was nationalistic and insensitive towards Serbs, but did not pose a threat to them before the war.\n\nThe political crisis escalated when the Serb-populated areas attempted to form an enclave called Serbian Krajina which intended to separate from Croatia if Croatia itself attempted to separate from Yugoslavia. The Serb leadership in Krajina refused to recognize the government of the Republic of Croatia as having sovereignty over them. The crisis began in August 1990 with the Log Revolution as Croatian Serbs cut down trees and used them to block roads. This hampered Croatian tourism and caused alarm in the province of Dalmatia as Croatia was hosting the 1990 European Athletics Championships in Split.\n\nOn December 21, 1990, a new \"Christmas Constitution\" was passed, that adopted a liberal democracy. The constitution defined Croatia as \"the national state of the Croatian nation and a state of members of other nations and minorities who are its citizens: Serbs... who are guaranteed equality with citizens of Croatian nationality...\" The status of Serbs was changed from an explicitly mentioned nation (\"narod\") to a nation listed together with minorities (\"narodi i manjine\"). This constitutional change was also read by the majority of Serb politicians as taking away some of the rights that the Serbs had been granted by the previous Socialist constitution, and it fuelled extremism among the Serbs of Croatia. This was not based on the literal reading of the former Constitution of SR Croatia, which had also treated solely Croats as a constitutive nation, saying Croatia was \"national state\" for Croats, \"state\" for Serbs and other minorities.\n\nOn February 21, 1991, Croatia declared its Constitution and laws supreme to that of the SFRY, and the Parliament enacted a formal resolution on the process of disassociation () from SFR Yugoslavia and possible new association with other sovereign republics.\n\nOver two hundred armed incidents involving the rebel Serbs and Croatian police were reported between August 1990 and April 1991.\n\nOn May 19, 1991, the Croatian authorities held the Croatian referendum on independence. Serb local authorities called for a boycott of the vote, which was largely followed by Croatian Serbs. In the end, a majority of Croatians endorsed independence from Yugoslavia, with a turnout of 83.56% and the two referendum questions answered positively by 93.24% and 92.18% (resp.) of the total number of votes.\n\nOn June 25, 1991, the country declared its independence from the SFRY, finalizing its effort to end its status as a constituent republic. That decision of the parliament decision was partially boycotted by left-wing party deputies.\n\nThe European Economic Community and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe immediately urged both Croatia and Slovenia that they would not be recognized as independent states because of a fear of a civil war in Yugoslavia. By mid-1991, the Croatian War of Independence had already started. Serb-controlled areas of Croatia were part of the three \"Serb Autonomous Oblasts\" later known as the Republic of Serbian Krajina, bulk of which would not be under Croatian control until 1995, and the remaining parts in 1998.\n\nCroatia was first recognized as an independent state on 26 June 1991 by Slovenia, which declared its own independence on the same day as Croatia. \nBut by 29 June, the Croatian and Slovenian authorities agreed to a three-month moratorium on the independence declaration, in an effort to ease tensions. \nThe Brijuni Agreement was formally signed in a meeting of the European Community Ministerial Troika, the Yugoslav, Serbian, Slovenian and Croatian authorities on 7 July.\nLithuania was the sole state that recognized Croatia on 30 July.\n\nThe Badinter Arbitration Committee was set up by the Council of Ministers of the European Economic Community (EEC) on 27 August 1991 to provide legal advice and criteria for recognition to former Yugoslav republics. The five-member commission consisted of presidents of constitutional courts in the EEC.\nOn 7 October, the eve of expiration of the moratorium, the Yugoslav Air Force attacked Banski dvori, the main government building in Zagreb. On 8 October 1991, the moratorium expired, and the Croatian Parliament severed all remaining ties with Yugoslavia. That particular session of the parliament was held in the INA building on Pavao Šubić Avenue in Zagreb due to security concerns provoked by recent Yugoslav air raid; Specifically, it was feared that the Yugoslav Air Force might attack the parliament building. This decision was reached unanimously in the Parliament, and the only parliamentary deputies missing were some from the Serb parties that had been absent since early 1991.\n\nGermany advocated quick recognition of Croatia, in order to stop ongoing violence in Serb-inhabited areas, with Helmut Kohl requesting recognition in the Bundestag on 4 September. Kohl's position was opposed by France, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands, but the countries agreed to pursue a common approach by following Germany's unilateral action. On 10 October, two days after the Croatian Parliament confirmed the declaration of independence, the EEC decided to postpone any decision to recognize Croatia for two months. German foreign minister Hans Dietrich Genscher later wrote that the EEC decided to recognize Croatian independence in two months if the war had not ended by then. With the war still ongoing when the deadline expired, Germany presented its decision to recognize Croatia as its policy and duty. Germany's position was supported by Italy and Denmark. France and the UK attempted to prevent German recognition by drafting a United Nations resolution requesting that no country take unilateral actions which could worsen the situation in Yugoslavia.\n\nStarting in late November 1991, the Badinter Commission rendered a series of ten opinions. The Commission stated, among other things, that Yugoslavia was in the process of dissolution, and that the internal boundaries of Yugoslav republics could not be altered unless freely agreed upon. Factors in the preservation of Croatia's pre-war borders were the Yugoslav federal constitutional amendments of 1971 and 1974, granting that sovereign rights were exercised by the federal units, and that the federation had only the authority specifically transferred to it by the constitution. The borders had been defined by demarcation commissions in 1947.\n\nUltimately, France and the UK backed down during the Security Council debate on the matter on 14 December, when Germany appeared determined to defy the UN resolution. On 17 December, the EEC formally agreed to grant Croatia diplomatic recognition on 15 January 1992, on the basis of its request and a positive opinion of the Badinter Arbitration Commission.\n\nIn its Opinion No. 5 on the specific matter of Croatian independence, the Commission ruled that Croatia's independence should not yet be recognized, because the new Croatian Constitution did not incorporate protections for minorities required by European Community. In response to this decision, the President of Croatia Franjo Tuđman wrote to Robert Badinter, giving assurances that this deficit would be remedied.\n\nUkraine and Latvia were the first to react by recognizing Croatian independence in the second week of December. The following week, Iceland and Germany recognized it, on 19 December 1991, as the first western European countries to do so.\n\nIn response to the decisions of the Badinter Commission, the RSK formally declared its separation from Croatia on 19 December, but its statehood and independence were not recognized internationally. On 26 December, Yugoslavia announced plans for a smaller state, which could include the territory captured from Croatia during the war. This plan was rejected by the UN General Assembly.\n\nThree more countries decided to recognize Croatia before the EEC-scheduled date of January 15: Estonia, the Holy See, and San Marino.\nThe European Economic Community finally granted Croatia diplomatic recognition on 15 January 1992, and the United Nations did so in May 1992.\n\nIn the period following the declaration of independence, the war escalated, with the sieges of Vukovar and Dubrovnik, and fighting elsewhere, until a ceasefire of 3 January 1992 led to stabilization and a significant reduction of violence.\n\nWith the end of 1991, the second Yugoslavia effectively ceased to exist as a state, with the prime minister Ante Marković and president of the presidency Stjepan Mesić resigning in December 1991, and caretaker government representing it until the country's formal dissolution in April 1992.\n\nThe war effectively ended in August 1995 with a decisive victory for Croatia as a result of Operation Storm. Present day borders of Croatia were established when the remaining Serb-held areas of eastern Slavonia were restored to Croatia pursuant to the Erdut Agreement of November 1995, with the process concluded in January 1998.\n\nSince 2002, 8 October is celebrated as Croatia's Independence Day, while 25 June is the Statehood Day. 30 May, marking the day when the first democratic parliament was constituted in 1990, used to be commemorated as the Statehood Day.\n\nAlthough it is not a public holiday, 15 January is marked as the day Croatia won international recognition by Croatian media and politicians. On the day's 10th anniversary in 2002, the Croatian National Bank minted a 25 kuna commemorative coin.\n\n"}
{"id": "18004715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18004715", "title": "Indigenous rights", "text": "Indigenous rights\n\nIndigenous rights are those rights that exist in recognition of the specific condition of the indigenous peoples. This includes not only the most basic human rights of physical survival and integrity, but also the preservation of their land, language, religion, and other elements of cultural heritage that are a part of their existence as a people. This can be used as an expression for advocacy of social organizations or form a part of the national law in establishing the relation between a government and the right of self-determination among the indigenous people living within its borders, or in international law as a protection against violation by actions of governments or groups of private interests.\n\nThe indigenous rights belong to those who, being indigenous peoples, are defined by being the original people of a land that has been conquested and colonized by outsiders. Exactly who is a part of the indigenous peoples is disputed, but can broadly be understood in relation to colonialism. When we speak of indigenous peoples we speak of those pre-colonial societies that face a specific threat from this phenomenon of occupation, and the relation that these societies have with the colonial powers. The exact definition of who are the indigenous people, and the consequent state of rightsholders, varies. It is considered both to be bad to be too inclusive as it is to be non-inclusive. In the context of modern indigenous people of European colonial powers, the recognition of indigenous rights can be traced to at least the period of Renaissance. Along with the justification of colonialism with a higher purpose for both the colonists and colonized, some voices expressed concern over the way indigenous peoples were treated and the effect it had on their societies. In the Spanish Empire, the crown established the General Indian Court in Mexico and in Peru, with jurisdiction over cases involving the indigenous and aimed at protecting Indians from ill-treatment. Indians' access to the court was enabled by a small tax which paid for legal aides.\n\nThe issue of indigenous rights is also associated with other levels of human struggle. Due to the close relationship between indigenous peoples' cultural and economic situations and their environmental settings, indigenous rights issues are linked with concerns over environmental change and sustainable development. According to scientists and organizations like the Rainforest Foundation, the struggle for indigenous peoples is essential for solving the problem of reducing carbon emission, and approaching the threat on both cultural and biological diversity in general.\n\nThe rights, claims and even identity of indigenous peoples are apprehended, acknowledged and observed quite differently from government to government. Various organizations exist with charters to in one way or another promote (or at least acknowledge) indigenous aspirations, and indigenous societies have often banded together to form bodies which jointly seek to further their communal interests.\n\nThere are several non-governmental civil society movements, networks, indigenous and non-indigenous organizations whose founding mission is to protect indigenous rights, including land rights. These organizations, networks and groups underline that the problems that indigenous peoples are facing is the lack of recognition that they are entitled to live the way they choose, and lack of the right to their lands and territories. Their mission is to protect the rights of indigenous peoples without states imposing their ideas of \"development\". These groups say that each indigenous culture is differentiated, rich of religious believe systems, way of life, substenance and arts, and that the root of problem would be the interference with their way of living by state's disrespect to their rights, as well as the invasion of traditional lands by multinational cooperations and small businesses for exploitation of natural resources.\n\nIndigenous peoples and their interests are represented in the United Nations primarily through the mechanisms of the Working Group on Indigenous Populations (WGIP). In April 2000 the United Nations Commission on Human Rights adopted a resolution to establish the United Nations Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues (PFII) as an advisory body to the Economic and Social Council with a mandate to review indigenous issues.\n\nIn late December 2004, the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 2005–2014 to be the \"Second International Decade of the World's Indigenous People\". The main goal of the new decade will be to strengthen international cooperation around resolving the problems faced by indigenous peoples in areas such as culture, education, health, human rights, the environment, and social and economic development.\n\nIn September 2007, after a process of preparations, discussions and negotiations stretching back to 1982, the General Assembly adopted the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The non-binding declaration outlines the individual and collective rights of indigenous peoples, as well as their rights to identity, culture, language, employment, health, education and other issues. Four nations with significant indigenous populations voted against the declaration: the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia. All four have since then changed their vote in favour. Eleven nations abstained: Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi, Colombia, Georgia, Kenya, Nigeria, Russia, Samoa and Ukraine. Thirty-four nations did not vote, while the remaining 143 nations voted for it.\n\nILO 169 is a convention of the International Labour Organization. Once ratified by a state, it is meant to work as a law protecting tribal people's rights. There are twenty-two physical survival and integrity, but also the preservation of their land, language and religion rights. The ILO is represents indigenous rights as they are the organisation that enforced instruments the deal with indigenous rights exclusively.\n\nSince 1997, the nations of the Organization of American States have been discussing draft versions of a proposed American Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. \"The draft declaration is currently one of the most important processes underway with regard to indigenous rights in the Americas\" as mentioned by the International Work Group for Indigenous Affairs.\n\nIn Canada \"Aboriginal rights\" () are those rights that indigenous peoples enjoy as a result of their ancestors' long occupancy of the land, for example the right to hunt and fish a particular territory. These are distinct from \"treaty rights\" which are enumerated in specific agreements between indigenous groups and the state. Both treaty rights and Aboriginal rights are protected by Section 35 of the Canadian constitution of 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "1235099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1235099", "title": "Institute for International Research", "text": "Institute for International Research\n\nInstitute for International Research, Inc. (IIR) is a subsidiary of Informa Plc. It grew from its founding to 1973 to become one of the world's largest conference providers. It has been part of the Informa Group since 2005.\n\nThe company was started by Irvine Laidlaw, Baron Laidlaw in 1973 and sold to Informa for a reported GBP 768 million in 2005. Irvine Laidlaw began IIR by producing newsletters out of a base in Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1989, IIR Inc. in the United States acquired institutions in order to enter the seminar and training business. Acquisitions included training organisers such as ESI International, Achieve Global Huthwaite followed by Omega Performance and Communispond. Debra Chipman is the current president and chief executive officer of the Institute for International Research, Inc, which operates as a subsidiary of IIR Ltd.\n\nMany IIR conferences, workshops and training courses are conducted in Europe each year. These cover many topics including general management, finance, banking and energy. IIR has been active in Austria since 1992. Annual congresses held in Austria include \"Epcon\"\"(energy), \"tel.con\" (telecommunications industry), \"Pulse\" (health), \"Course\" (banking sector) and the \"ÖVT\" (insurance industry). IIR has been operating in Germany since 1989 with 200 employees, 14 divisions and about 2000 events. Starting from 1999, Austria developed the CEE region for IIR, with offices in Poland (Warsaw), Czech Republic (Prague) and Hungary (Budapest).\n\nIIR online regional sites include IIR Austria, IIR Australia IIR North America, IIR Middle East, IIR Telecoms and Informa plc.\n\n"}
{"id": "35041393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35041393", "title": "Kara language (Tanzania)", "text": "Kara language (Tanzania)\n\nKara, or Regi, is a Bantu language of Tanzania, spoken off Ukerewe Island in Lake Victoria. Jita–Kara–Kwaya are close to being dialects.\n"}
{"id": "38570935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38570935", "title": "Karey language", "text": "Karey language\n\nKarey (Krei) is a language spoken on the Aru Islands of eastern Indonesia.\n"}
{"id": "47493726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47493726", "title": "Kasur child sexual abuse scandal", "text": "Kasur child sexual abuse scandal\n\nThe Kasur child sexual abuse scandal is a series of child sexual abuses that occurred in Hussain Khanwala village in Kasur District, Punjab, Pakistan from 2006 to 2014, culminating in a major political scandal in 2015. After the discovery of hundreds of video clips showing children performing forced sex acts, various Pakistani media organizations estimated that 280 to 300 children, most of them male, were victims of sexual abuse. The scandal involved an organized crime ring that sold child pornography to porn sites, and blackmailed and extorted relatives of the victims.\n\nThe scandal caused nationwide outrage, among allegations that the Punjab police and Malik Ahmad Saeed Khan, Kasur's Member of the Provincial Assembly from the ruling Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz), were involved in an attempted cover-up of the abuse.\n\nIt is cited by both news agencies and government departments as the largest child abuse scandal in Pakistan's history. Besides large-scale public condemnation, 50 Pakistani clergy and religious scholars issued a fatwa (religious decree) for capital punishment of the culprits, and demanded that the government console the victims and their parents.\n\nAshraf Javed, a staff reporter for \"The Nation\", broke the news that a gang of 20 to 25 men had allegedly filmed up to 400 videos of child sexual abuse, involving at least 280 children of Hussain Khanwala village in Kasur. In one instance, the father of one of the victims was blackmailed into paying PKR 1.2 million to the abusers, who had threatened to release a video of his son being raped.\n\nOn 8 August 2015, villagers from Hussain Khanwala and adjacent villages clashed with policemen in Dolaywala village along Deepalpur Road, after protesting the police's failure to stop the abuse ring. Police cordoned off the roads leading to the village to stop the protesters; As a police contingent tried to halt the mob led by Mobeen Ahmed, the latter pelted stones. Police teargassed and baton charged the crowd, which then damaged official vehicles on Deepalpur Road. DSPs Hassan Farooq Ghumman and Arif Rasheed; Ganda Singh SHO Akmal Kausar; policemen Akbar, Sajid, Riaz, Naeem, Ahmed Ali, Akbar Ghani and Muhammad Akmal; and 15 protesters were injured in the clash.\n\nThe Government of Punjab's initial statement came from Punjab Minister of Law Rana Sanaullah on 8 August 2015, who stated that a government inquiry committee concluded that no instance of child sex abuse had been reported. Sanaullah said that \"reports to this effect surfaced after two parties involved in a land dispute registered 'fake cases' against each other.\"\n\nOn 9 August 2015, the Chief Minister of Punjab Shehbaz Sharif ordered the Punjab Home Department to request Chief Justice of the Lahore High Court Manzoor Ahmed Malik to constitute a judicial inquiry into the sex abuse case. On the next day, the Chief Justice rejected the request, observing that the Punjab police was already investigating the case hence there was no need of a separate judicial commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "54360257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54360257", "title": "Lauren Krivo", "text": "Lauren Krivo\n\nLauren J. Krivo is an American sociologist who is professor of sociology at Rutgers University, where she is also an affiliated professor in the Program in Criminal Justice. She is also the Director of Graduate Studies in Rutgers' sociology department. She is known for her work on residential segregation and disadvantage as they relate to race and crime in the United States. She co-founded the Racial Democracy, Crime, and Justice Network, a national network of scholars dedicated to researching race, crime, and justice, along with her longtime collaborator Ruth D. Peterson.\n\n"}
{"id": "42302898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42302898", "title": "Manga language (Sino-Tibetan)", "text": "Manga language (Sino-Tibetan)\n\nManga (autonym: \"\") is a Lolo-Burmese language spoken by the Yi people of China. It is spoken in Gedang Village 格当村, Xinhua Township 新华乡, Funing County, Yunnan (Lama 2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "297198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=297198", "title": "Meyer Guggenheim", "text": "Meyer Guggenheim\n\nMeyer Guggenheim (February 1, 1828 – March 15, 1905) was the patriarch of what became known as the Guggenheim family.\n\nHe was born in Lengnau, Aargau, Switzerland on February 1, 1828. He was of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry and emigrated to the United States in 1847. He started out in the importing business, but made his and his family's fortune (which was one of the largest fortunes of the 19th century) in mining and smelting.\n\nGuggenheim invested in silver mines of the Leadville mining district of Colorado. From mining he expanded into ore smelting, also in Colorado, then built a number of smelters across the US and in northern Mexico. As his sons grew up, they took leading roles in the family mining and smelting business.\n\nGuggenheim and his wife Barbara had ten surviving children. Five of his seven sons were active in the family businesses:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7300653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7300653", "title": "Moko jumbie", "text": "Moko jumbie\n\nA moko jumbie (also known as \"moko jumbi\" or \"mocko jumbie\") is a stilts walker or dancer. \"Moko\" means healer in Central Africa and \"jumbi\", a West Indian term for a ghost or spirit that may have been derived from the Kongo language word \"zumbi\". The Moko Jumbies are thought to originate from West African tradition brought to the Caribbean.\n\nA Moko Jumbie character may wear colorful garb and carnival masks. They also frequent festivals and celebrations such as Trinidad and Tobago Carnival.\n\nWhile the god Moko is from the Kongo (or Congo) and Nigeria, from the Maasai people, Trinidad and Tobago has added their own touch to him. Moko, in the traditional sense, is a god. He watches over his village, and due to his towering height, he is able to foresee danger and evil. His name, Moko, literally means the “diviner” and he would be represented by men on towering stilts and performs acts that were unexplainable to the human eye. In one remote tribe, the Moko rises from a regular man's height to the skies fluidly with no help and descends similarly to leave others to wonder how he performed such an act.\n\nThe Moko arrived in Trinidad by “walking all the way across the Atlantic Ocean from the West coast of Africa, laden with many, many centuries of experience, and, in spite of all inhuman attacks and encounters, yet still walks tall, tall, tall. (John Cupid, Caribbean Beat)” The idea of the Moko survived by living in the hearts of African descendants during slavery and colonial life to eventually walk the streets of Trinidad in a celebration of freedom, Carnival. While this figure was rooted in African heritage, Trinidad adapted the figure, notably by adding on Jumbie or ghost to the name. By the early 1900s Moko Jumbies had become an element of Trinidad’s Carnival. This figure would walk the streets of Port of Spain and other cities protecting the city and revelers from evil. As part of his role in Carnival the Moko Jumbie would accept donations from onlookers in upper floors of buildings. However, his notable figure of Carnival slowly faded until a drastic revival.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Moko Jumbies were essentially non-existent in Carnival, until two men brought this tradition back. These men, namely Moose and Dragon, have brought the Moko Jumbie back to a place of prominence in Carnival and created a new kind of Moko Jumbie. One man originally brought the idea to them as well as the knowledge of how to make stilts. The style of stilts they walked was very similar to the modern day ones but with one main difference, they had no front leg brace. This changed when a man named Ben Block from Canada, a random traveler, came to Trinidad with a pair of stilts. He had a frontal brace on the upper leg and the Trinidadians took inspiration from this design and used it in their own. Now there are two main Moko Jumbie bands in Trinidad, Watusi and Kilimanjaro, as well as several smaller ones. So while the idea of the Moko came from Africa, Trinidad has made it its own.\n\nIn 2009 the U.S. Department of Tourism of the U.S. Virgin Islands adopted the moko jumbie as a symbol for the islands.\n"}
{"id": "1188741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1188741", "title": "National Association of Colored Women's Clubs", "text": "National Association of Colored Women's Clubs\n\nThe National Association of Colored Women Clubs (NACWC) is an American organization that was formed in July 1896 at the First Annual Convention of the National Federation of Afro-American Women in Washington, D.C., United States, by a merger of the National Federation of African-American Women, the Woman's Era Club of Boston, and the National League of Colored Women of Washington, DC, at the call of Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin. From 1896 to 1904 it was known as the National Association of Colored Women (NACW). It adopted the motto \"Lifting as we climb\", to demonstrate to \"an ignorant and suspicious world that our aims and interests are identical with those of all good aspiring women.\" When incorporated in 1904, NACW became known as the National Association of Colored Women's Clubs (NACWC).\n\n“In 1895 an obscure man in an obscure Missouri town sent a letter broad-cast over this country and England, reflecting upon the character and morals of our Women. So utterly false were the vile statement, that the women were aroused as never before and when Mrs. Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin, President of the New Era Club of Boston, called a meeting of protest in July 1895, the indignant women from North, South, East and West flocked to the “Classic Hub”, and in no uncertain terms vindicated the honor of the Race. The National Federation of Colored Women’s Club was the result of that meeting, with Mrs. Booker T. Washington at its head. However, another National organization, the Women’s Loyal Union, with Mrs. Cooke (née Helen Appo Cook) as President existed at Washington and the women soon realized that two organizations so identically similar could not work harmoniously as separate units. Therefore, the two organizations met in July 1896, and each appointed a committee to arrange for a consolidation, which was effected and the National Association of C.W.C came into existence with Mrs. Mary Church Terrell, of international fame, as President. This joint session was attended by some of the most notable women of our Race, among whom were Harriet Tubman. Francis E.W. Harper, poet and writer, Victoria E. Matthews, founder of the White Rose Mission of New York, Josephine S. Yates, teacher and writer, an others. Mrs. Ida B. Wells Barnett and Elizabeth Lindsay Davis were the delegates from Illinois.” Elizabeth Lindsay Davis, N.A.C.W.C. Historian, 1933 \n\nThe National Association of Colored Women (later National Association of Colored Women's Clubs) was established in Washington, D.C., on July 21, 1896. This first of what would later become biennial convention meetings of the association was held at the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church. The organizations attending this convention included the National Federation of Afro-American Women, the Woman's Era Club of Boston, and the National League of Colored Women of Washington, DC, the Women's Loyal Union as well as smaller organizations that had arisen from the African-American women's club movement. These organizations and later others across the country merged to form the National Association of Colored Women. The organization helped all African-American women by working on issues of civil rights and injustice, such as women’s suffrage, lynching, and Jim Crow laws.\n\nFounders of the NACWC included Harriet Tubman, Margaret Murray Washington, Frances E.W. Harper, Ida Bell Wells-Barnett, and Mary Church Terrell. Its two leading members were Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin and Mary Church Terrell. Their original intention was \"to furnish evidence of the moral, mental and material progress made by people of color through the efforts of our women\". They organized to refute a letter written by James Jacks, the president of the Missouri Press Association, challenging the respectability of African-American women, and referring to them as thieves and prostitutes.\n\nDuring the next ten years, the NACWC became involved in campaigns in favor of women's suffrage and against lynching and Jim Crow laws. They also led efforts to improve education, and care for both children and the elderly. By 1918, when the United States entered the First World War, membership in the NACWC had grown to an extraordinary 300,000 nationwide.\n\nThat the National Association of Colored Women was the most prominent organization formed during the African-American Woman Suffrage Movement was due chiefly to the efforts of Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin and Mary Church Terrell. Both women were educated and had economically successful parents.\n\nBorn on August 31, 1842, in Boston, Josephine St. Pierre was the daughter of John St. Pierre, a successful clothes dealer from Martinique and Elizabeth Matilda Menhenick from Cornwall, England. Her parents supported her going to school in Salem for its integrated schools, rather than attend segregated ones in Boston. There Josephine St. Pierre flourished. At the age of 16, she married George Lewis Ruffin, who became the first African-American graduate of Harvard Law School. Among their early activities was recruiting black soldiers for the Union Army during the Civil War. \n\nAfter her husband died in 1886, Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin used part of her estate to fund \"Woman’s Era\", the first journal published by and for African-American women. She was a vice-president of the National Association of Colored Women. In 1910 Ruffin enlarged her social activism by helping form the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). She died in March 1924.\n\nMary Church Terrell was the daughter of Robert Church, Sr., a former slave and reputed son of a white master. Church, Sr. built a business and became one of the wealthiest black men in the South. He was able to send Mary to Oberlin College, where she earned both bachelor's and master's degrees. Years later Mary Church Terrell spoke at the Berlin International Congress of Women, giving her speech in fluent German and French, as well as English. She was the only black woman at the conference.\n\nTerrell was elected as the first president of the National Association of Colored Women in 1896. She led the struggle in Washington, DC against segregation in public eating places and succeeded in winning a court decision for integration there. Terrell died in Annapolis, Maryland, on July 24, 1954.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48593481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48593481", "title": "Nepalese in Singapore", "text": "Nepalese in Singapore\n\nNepalis in Singapore comprise migrants from Nepal to Singapore, including temporary expatriates and permanent residents, as well as their locally born descendants.\n\nThe first wave of Nepalese immigration began since British Gurkha Army. Gurkha (Singapore Police)\n\nThe Non-Resident Nepali Association of Singapore is one organisation for Nepalese people living in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "4510148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4510148", "title": "Noolaham Foundation", "text": "Noolaham Foundation\n\nNoolaham Foundation is a non-profit, charitable organization founded to provide enhanced access to information sources and foster knowledge-based development in Sri Lanka. It is a registered organization (GA 2390) based in Sri Lanka with volunteer participation from all over the world. Noolaham Foundation was initiated as Project Noolaham in 2005. In 2010, it was formally incorporated in Sri Lanka.\n\nNoolaham Foundation was created with a view to documenting, preserving and disseminating texts and sources that speak about the social, economic, cultural and political discourses related to the Sri Lankan Tamil speaking communities. In the post-independence Sri Lanka, sites of knowledge production and knowledge preservation of the Tamil speaking communities such as the Jaffna Public Library has been lost. Therefore, it is important that we create alternative, virtual platforms where this knowledge could be preserved. Such platforms can also cater to the needs of local and international researchers who are interested in studying the various aspects of the Sri Lankan Tamil speaking communities. Noolaham Foundation is one such platform.\n\nThe Foundation runs programs and projects including\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20832358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20832358", "title": "Peruvian Brazilians", "text": "Peruvian Brazilians\n\nPeruvian Brazilians (Spanish: \"Peruano-brasileño\", Portuguese: \"Peruano-brasileiro\") refers to Brazilian people of full, partial, or predominantly Peruvian ancestry.\n"}
{"id": "25565752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25565752", "title": "Pilgrims of Arès", "text": "Pilgrims of Arès\n\nThe Pilgrims of Arès is the name of a new religious movement founded in 1974 and whose founder was Michel Potay. It was named after the town of Arès, Gironde, where Michel Potay received revelations. Beliefs and practices are based on the \"Revelation of Arès\", written by Potay.\n\nThe Pilgrims of Arès are organized in a decentralized manner. According to a critic of the group, the movement has about \"500 to 2,000 followers\". According to another critic of the movement, the Pilgrims of Arès live sometimes isolated, sometimes in groups or missions. Legally, they form regional assemblies as the \"Workers of the Harvest\" (\"Les Ouvriers de la Moisson\"), \"The Eye Opens\" (\"L'Œil s'Ouvre,\" created in Bordeaux on 4 March 1987, dissolved in 2001), \"The Brothers of the Dawn\" (\"Frères de l'Aube\"), \"The Torrents\" (created in Paris in 1989), or larger associations, such as \"The Work of the Pilgrimage of Arès.\" Also according to the same association, the Pilgrims of Arès would develop missions in Germany, Belgium (Liège), France, United Kingdom, Hungary, Ireland, Poland, Russia and Switzerland (Geneva, Neuchâtel, Zurich). The movement begins to expand outside Europe, with members in Africa, Australia, New Zealand and America (U.S. and Canada).\n\nThe believer has a spiritual and individual freedom. The Pilgrims may be defined as any person who accepts the word of the \"Revelation of Arès\". Two essential elements provide yet cohesive movement, otherwise very disparate and that reject any idea of centralized organization: \"The Revelation of Arès\" and their prophet, Michel Potay. Publishing and disseminating the message of this book is one of the main purposes of the movement. The House of Revelation, in Arès, publishes \"The Revelation of Arès\", and provides bookstores and libraries. Periodicals \"The Pilgrim of Arès\", \"Brothers of the Dawn\" (\"Frères de l'Aube\"), \"The Egala'h\", \"The Bul'fda\" and pamphlets are also published. The associative structure then responds to these needs.\n\nAs a prophet who claims that God spoke to him directly, Potay is the founder of the movement, and is the coordinator between the various associations. Sociologist Jean-François Mayer thinks there is a tendency in sanctifying Michel Potay, but after having invested heavily in conferences and meetings, he is more discreet now. The continuation of the movement is mainly done by believers themselves.\n\nThe Pilgrims of Arès believers are free but they are grouped into associations of local mission, called \"Assemblies of God.\" Legally and for practical purposes, they are formed as voluntary associations. The first assembly was founded in Bordeaux in 1976, followed by a second in Paris in 1978. It was created sixty associations linked to the faith in France, in twenty French cities. These associations publish periodicals, pamphlets, organize conferences and meetings. However, no association represents Pilgrims of Arès in full. One of them, named The Work of the Pilgrimage of Arès, organizes the pilgrimage to the House of the Holy Word.\n\nA pilgrimage in Arès was founded in 1974. Followers go to the House of the Holy Word (Maison de la Sainte Parole), the place of supposed theophanies received by Potay, to pray and receive the Fire, a strengthening of his faith. The pilgrims practice \"free\" prayer, which is to chant softly extracts of sacred books: the Bible, the Quran and \"The Revelation of Arès\". To access the House of the Holy Word, each pilgrim must answer three questions:\n\nHowever, what is important is mainly the pilgrim's motives. The pilgrim is then allowed to enter the House of the Holy Word, but he must remove his shoes and wear a white tunic. He then puts his hand down the front, and prostrates himself to kiss the ground.\n\nThe House of Revelation (Maison de la Révélation) is the place where Jesus allegedly appeared in 1974. During the pilgrimage, seminars, public missions and film screenings are organized.\n\n\"The Revelation of Ares\" is made of two parts:\n\"The Revelation of Ares\" is supposed to be the continuation of the Bible and the Quran, as expressed in chapter 2 of \"The Revelation of Ares\". To distinguish \"The Gospel Given at Ares\" from \"The Book\", Potay's references to chapters are given in Arabic numeral for \"The Gospel Given at Ares\", and in Roman numerals for \"The Book\". In both cases, Michel Potay said he wrote on paper the message he was hearing. \"The Gospel Given at Ares\" is written in classical French, but \"The Book\" is written in a non-grammatical manner using mostly French words but also words from other languages. Michel Potay claims that God put in his mind the meaning of \"The Book\", so that he could explain it to humanity.\n\n\"The Revelation of Ares\"' core message is to practice and develop, within oneself and with everyone: love, forgiveness, freedom, creativity and spiritual intelligence. \"The Revelation of Ares\" also puts forward a social message that both religion and politics should disappear, since religion is against freedom and does not come from God but should be replaced by spirituality, and since political leadership is against freedom, it should be replaced by competent management. Moreover, pilgrims of Arès have the spiritual and social mission to spread around them the good Word of God to free humankind\n\nThe movement is financed by donations from pilgrims of Arès who pay a tithe of 5% of their income. As recommended in \"The Revelation of Arès\" (34 / 6), they pay their donations to Potay himself. However, the group says these donations are discretionary.\n\nOne of the group's organizations, The Eye Opens, founded in 1987 in Bordeaux, was listed as cult in the 1995 French parliamentary report established by the Parliamentary Commission on Cults in France, in the category \"Cultic movements with 500 to 2,000 followers.\" The report considered the association as an \"apocalyptic\" and \"healer\" cult.\n\nIn 2005, a MIVILUDES report cited Pilgrims of Arès in the chapter on healing through prayer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1877924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1877924", "title": "Plato's Retreat", "text": "Plato's Retreat\n\nPlato's Retreat was a swingers' club in Manhattan, New York, NY, USA, operating from 1977 until 1985 and catering to heterosexual couples and bisexual women.\nIn 1976, Larry Levenson, a high school friend of Al Goldstein and a former fast-food manager who was selling ice cream at Coney Island, was introduced to the swinging lifestyle by a woman he met at a bar. After organizing swinging parties himself for a time, he opened a club \"for swingers\" in 1977, in the basement of the Kenmore Hotel on East 23rd Street between Lexington and Third Avenue, and called it \"Plato's Retreat.\" The same year, he moved it to the basement of the Ansonia Hotel, a 19th-century building on 2109 Broadway between West 73rd and West 74th Streets on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The hotel used to house Continental Baths, a gay bathhouse where Bette Midler, often accompanied by Barry Manilow on piano, provided musical entertainment early in her career.\n\nPlato's Retreat was a \"members-only\" establishment that required everyone to follow the club's rules. Levenson barred male homosexuals, and accepted only straight couples – and women, escorted or otherwise – in the premises. Once a woman left a room after a sexual encounter, her male companion had to accompany her within two minutes. This rule was intended to ensure that women nearly always outnumbered men. Levenson strictly prohibited sexual activity between males but welcomed lesbians. Drugs, including alcohol, and prostitution services were forbidden, though, by subsequent accounts, prostitutes did frequent the premises and there was \"rampant\" use of drugs (most often quaaludes) by patrons.\n\nAccording to a 1979 advertisement in \"SCREW\" magazine, the club offered, besides a heated swimming pool, a sauna steam, whirlpool baths, disco dancing, free bar and buffet, \"cozy living rooms and lounging areas\", a \"variety of swing areas\", and a backgammon lounge.\n\nDuring its heyday, Plato's Retreat was considered the world's most infamous sex club, popular with celebrities, porn stars, and well-to-do couples. The clientele was described as \"an assortment of kinky types from the suburbs: dry cleaners and their wives, or fat men in toupees with their heavily made-up girlfriends.\" Owner Levenson often partook in sexual activity on the premises, once winning a bet against Al Goldstein and 'Butch' Katz, owner of 42nd Street's Roxy Burlesk theater, that he could ejaculate fifteen times within a twenty-four-hour day.\n\nIn 1980, Plato's relocated to 509 West 34th Street.\n\nIn 1985, New York City Mayor Ed Koch backed the New York City Health Department's decision to shut down the city's gay bathhouses, in response to concerns over the spread of HIV/AIDS. In closing the gay bathhouses while allowing the heterosexual swingers' clubs – most notably Plato's Retreat – to remain open, the city found itself in violation of the newly adopted anti-discrimination law. The Health Department, with Koch's approval, reacted by ordering the heterosexual clubs, including Plato's Retreat, to close as well. The club's Manhattan location was shut down on New Year's Eve 1985, ostensibly for violating public-health ordinances.\n\nIn 1981, Levenson and his by-then two partners along with Plato’s accountant were tried and convicted for tax evasion. When the prosecutor asked Levenson—who was the only owner to take the stand—why Plato’s kept its accounting records off the premises, Levenson replied, “Where would I keep them, in the swimming pool?” He served an 8-year prison sentence at the Allenwood federal prison. After serving his sentence, Levenson worked in various jobs, such as cab driver. He died in 1999 after a quadruple bypass heart surgery.\n\nPlato's Retreat relocated to Fort Lauderdale, Florida, where it reopened under the name \"Plato's Retreat 2.\" Located at 321 West Sunrise, the new location was in operation as an on-premises heterosexual swingers' club, open Monday through Sunday from eight p.m. until the last person left. Saturday night was for couples only. Plato's Retreat in Fort Lauderdale was a bring-your-own-bottle club, since no liquor was sold on the premises; however, it provided complimentary mixers, soft drinks, juices, and ice.\n\nIn 2006, Plato's Retreat 2 closed, and then reopened as a sex club \"for men only,\" keeping the same location and bring-your-own format. The club at the Fort Lauderdale location currently operates under the business name \"321 Slammer.\" In the 2010s, there are reportedly numerous on-premises swingers' clubs operating in South Florida.\n\nIn 1978, Joe Thomas released a disco single, \"Plato's Retreat,\" with lyrics referring to the club. The 2009 documentary \"American Swing\" relates the story of Plato's Retreat with archival footage and interviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "8264708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8264708", "title": "Press Freedom Index", "text": "Press Freedom Index\n\nThe Press Freedom Index is an annual compiled and published by Reporters Without Borders based upon the organisation's own assessment of the countries' press freedom records in the previous year. It intends to reflect the degree of freedom that journalists, news organisations, and netizens have in each country, and the efforts made by authorities to respect this freedom. Reporters Without Borders is careful to note that the index only deals with press freedom and does not measure the quality of journalism nor does it look at human rights violations in general.\n\nThe report is partly based on a questionnaire which asks questions about pluralism, media independence, environment and self-censorship, legislative framework, transparency, and infrastructure. The questionnaire takes account of the legal framework for the media (including penalties for press offences, the existence of a state monopoly for certain kinds of media and how the media are regulated) and the level of independence of the public media. It also includes violations of the free flow of information on the Internet. Violence against journalists, netizens, and media assistants, including abuses attributable to the state, armed militias, clandestine organisations or pressure groups, are monitored by RSF staff during the year and are also part of the final score. A smaller score on the report corresponds to greater freedom of the press as reported by the organisation. The questionnaire is sent to Reporters Without Borders's partner organisations: 18 freedom of expression non-governmental organisations located in five continents, its 150 correspondents around the world and journalists, researchers, jurists and human rights activists.\n\nBased on the data collected, a score and a position or rank, complementary indicators that together assess the state of media freedom are assigned to each country in the final report. Some countries are excluded from the report because of a lack of reliable or confirmed information. Because the questions and calculations upon which the scores are based have changed over the years, scores are only used to compare countries within a given year. To follow a country’s evolution from year to year its rank in the index is compared rather than its score.\n\nEach report intends to reflect the situation during a specific period. The year of the report is the year the report was released and intends to reflect events in the prior year. No report was released in 2011. The 2011–2012 report, labelled 2012 in the table below, was published on 20 January, 2012, and intends to reflect events between 1 December, 2010, and 30 November, 2011. The 2013 World Press Freedom Index was published on 30 January, 2013, and intends to reflect events between 1 December, 2011, and 30 November, 2012.\n\nData for each year are presented as a country's rank, giving its position relative to other countries over its score. A smaller score on the report corresponds to greater freedom of the press as reported by the organisation. In 2012 the smallest scores could be negative.\n\nAlthough the map above uses five colours the table below uses seven, and so some countries (e.g. Canada) will be coloured differently.\nColor key:\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "40283619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40283619", "title": "Priority Development Assistance Fund scam", "text": "Priority Development Assistance Fund scam\n\nThe Priority Development Assistance Fund scam, also called the PDAF scam or the pork barrel scam, is a political scandal involving the alleged misuse by several members of the Congress of the Philippines of their Priority Development Assistance Fund (PDAF, popularly called \"pork barrel\"), a lump-sum discretionary fund granted to each member of Congress for spending on priority development projects of the Philippine government, mostly on the national level.\n\nThe scam was first exposed in the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" on July 12, 2013, with the six-part exposé of the \"Inquirer\" on the scam pointing to businesswoman Janet Lim-Napoles as the scam's mastermind after Benhur K. Luy, her second cousin and former personal assistant, was rescued by agents of the National Bureau of Investigation on March 22, 2013, four months after he was detained by Napoles at her unit at the Pacific Plaza Towers in Fort Bonifacio. Initially centering on Napoles' involvement in the 2004 Fertilizer Fund scam, the government investigation on Luy's testimony has since expanded to cover Napoles' involvement in a wider scam involving the misuse of PDAF funds from 2003 to 2013.\n\nIt is estimated that the Philippine government was defrauded of some ₱10 billion in the course of the scam, having been diverted to Napoles, participating members of Congress and other government officials. Aside from the PDAF and the fertilizer fund maintained by the Department of Agriculture, around ₱900 million in royalties earned from the Malampaya gas field were also lost to the scam. The scam has provoked public outrage, with calls being made on the Internet for popular protests to demand the abolition of the PDAF, and the order for Napoles' arrest sparking serious discussion online.\n\nAlthough the history of pork barrel-like discretionary funds in the Philippines dates back to 1922, during the American colonial period, the PDAF in its current form was only established during the administration of Corazon Aquino with the creation of the Countrywide Development Fund (CDF) in 1990. With ₱2.3 billion in initial funding, the CDF was designed to allow legislators to fund small-scale infrastructure or community projects which fell outside the scope of the national infrastructure program, which was often restricted to large infrastructure items. The CDF was later renamed the PDAF in 2000, during the administration of Joseph Estrada.\n\nSince 2008, every member of the House of Representatives usually receives an annual PDAF allocation of ₱70 million, while every senator receives an annual allocation of ₱200 million. The President also benefits from a PDAF-like allocation, the President's Social Fund (PSF), worth around ₱1 billion. Contrary to public belief, however, PDAF allocations are not actually released to members of Congress. Rather, disbursements under the PDAF are coursed via implementing agencies of the Philippine government, and are limited to \"soft\" and \"hard\" projects: the former largely referring to non-infrastructure projects (such as scholarships and financial assistance programs, although small infrastructure projects are also considered \"soft\" projects), and the latter referring to infrastructure projects which would be coursed via the Department of Public Works and Highways.\n\nBecause presidential systems are often prone to political gridlock, the PDAF is often used as a means to generate majority legislative support for the programs of the executive. Furthermore, because PDAF allocations are released by the Department of Budget and Management (DBM), PDAF allocations are often dependent on the relationship a legislator has with the sitting President. For example, during the latter years of the Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo administration, she was more generous in allocating PDAF funds in the annual national budget in order to win the favor of legislators. PDAF allocation has gradually increased over the years. For example, before Arroyo stepped down, the last PDAF allocated was for the year 2010 at ₱10.86 billion, but when the Benigno Aquino III administration passed its first budget for 2011, the allocation more than doubled to ₱24.62 billion.\n\nThe PDAF has proven to be very unpopular, with numerous calls for its abolition. In 1996, the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" published an exposé on systematic corruption in the CDF, with an anonymous congressman (since identified as Romeo D. Candazo of Marikina) elaborating how legislators and other government officials earned from overpricing projects in order to receive large commissions. Public outrage over the misuse of the CDF was instrumental in the enactment of reforms which led to the formation of the PDAF. The constitutionality of the PDAF has also been challenged in the Supreme Court. In 1994, the constitutionality of the CDF was challenged by the Philippine Constitution Association, arguing that the CDF's mechanisms encroach on the executive's power of implementing the budget passed by the legislature, but the Court ruled the CDF constitutional under the legislative's \"power of the purse\". This ruling was reaffirmed in 2001, when the PDAF was challenged again in the Supreme Court. Legislators themselves are torn on the abolition of the PDAF, with some supporting total abolition, others supporting increased regulation to minimize abuse of PDAF disbursements, and others opposed to it.\n\nThe PDAF or pork barrel scam involved the funding of \"ghost projects\" that were funded using the PDAF funds of participating lawmakers. These projects were in turn \"implemented\" through Napoles' companies, with the projects producing no tangible output. According to testimony provided by Benhur Luy's brother, Arthur, funds would be processed through fake foundations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) established under the wing of the JLN Group of Companies, the holding company of Janet Lim-Napoles, with Napoles' employees—even a nanny—named as incorporators or directors. Each foundation or NGO served as an official recipient of a particular legislator's PDAF funds, and each organization had a number of bank accounts where PDAF funds would be deposited for the implementation of these projects.\n\nNapoles, who specialized in trading agricultural products, frequently used the procurement of agricultural inputs in the propagation of the scam. Either her employees would write to legislators requesting for funds for the implementation of a particular project (e.g. farm inputs), or a legislator would indicate to the DBM a particular recipient agency for his or her PDAF funds that would be pre-selected by Napoles. Once received, this is forwarded to the DBM, which would then issue a Special Allotment Release Order (SARO) indicating the amount deducted from the legislator's PDAF allocation, and later a Notice of Cash Allocation (NCA) given to the recipient agency. The NCA would then be deposited in one of the foundation's accounts, and the funds withdrawn in favor of the JLN Group of Companies. The funds would then be split between Napoles, the lawmaker, the official of the DA responsible for facilitating the transfer of funds and, for good measure, the local mayor or governor. The JLN Group of Companies offered a commission of 10-15% against funds released to local government units and recipient agencies of PDAF funds, while a legislator would receive a commission of between 40-50% against the total value of his/her PDAF.\n\nLetters sent by Napoles' employees to participating legislators would also include a letter from a local government unit requesting for funding, bearing the forged signature of the local mayor or governor. All documents involving local government units were prepared by Napoles' staff, and Benhur Luy would forge the signature of the local mayor or governor. Local government officials who were used by Napoles were often unaware that they were participating in the scam. In other instances, however, Napoles would use emissaries to establish contact with local mayors in exchange for commissions that would come from the implementation of these projects.\n\nEvery recipient agency participating in the scam had employees or officials that maintained contact with Napoles, allowing for the smooth processing of transactions and the expedient release of PDAF funds to her organizations. Most importantly, Napoles was in regular contact with the DBM through Undersecretary for Operations Mario L. Relampagos, who had three employees (identified as Leah, Malou and Lalaine) responsible for the processing of SAROs destined for Napoles' organizations.\n\nIn the initial report published by the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\", 28 members of Congress (five senators and 23 representatives) were named as participants in the PDAF scam. Twelve of these legislators were identified by the newspaper, and close to ₱3 billion in PDAF funds coming from these legislators alone were exposed to the scam. Notably, the \"Inquirer\" named Bong Revilla, Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada, Bongbong Marcos and Gregorio Honasan as the five senators who participated in the scam. Revilla was the largest contributor among the 28 legislators, with around ₱1.015 billion of his PDAF funds being transferred to organizations identified with the JLN Group of Companies, although the extent to which legislators participated in the scam varied widely.\n\nOther legislators identified by the \"Inquirer\" as participating in the scam include La Union Representative Victor Ortega and former Representative Arthur Pingoy. Early reports had also identified Senator Loren Legarda as one of the participants in the scam, but Luy later denied her participation.\n\nLegislators identified by the \"Inquirer\" as participants in the PDAF scam—Bong Revilla in particular—have denied their participation in the scam. All senators except Jinggoy Estrada denied any knowledge of the scheme (Estrada refused to comment), and Marcos denied being acquaintances with Janet Lim-Napoles. Revilla and Marcos have also claimed that the investigation into the scam is politically motivated, saying that Malacañang is out to discredit potential candidates for the 2016 presidential election who are not allied with President Aquino: a charge that the administration denies. However, both Revilla and Marcos, as well as Honasan, have indicated their willingness to participate in any investigation, saying that they have nothing to hide.\n\nOn August 16, 2013, the Commission on Audit released the results of a three-year investigation into the use of legislators' PDAF and other discretionary funds during the last three years of the Arroyo administration. The report not only affirmed the \"Inquirer\" s findings, but also pointed to more legislators being privy to misuse of their PDAF funds. According to the report, between 2007 and 2009, ₱6.156 billion in PDAF funds coming from 12 senators and 180 representatives were disbursed to fund 772 projects found to be implemented in ways that were \"not proper and highly irregular\". Of the 82 NGOs implementing those projects, ten are linked to Napoles. The report also elaborates on \"questionable\" transactions made using the PDAF: ₱1.054 billion went to NGOs which were either unregistered, used multiple Tax Identification Numbers (TIN), or issued questionable receipts; while ₱1.289 billion in PDAF disbursements spent were not compliant with the Government Procurement Reform Act of 2003. Lawmakers from across the political spectrum, both past and present, were cited in the report, some of whom (such as Edgardo Angara, Ruffy Biazon, Neptali Gonzales II and Niel Tupas, Jr.) are closely related to President Aquino. Some legislators also donated PDAF funds to NGOs they themselves are affiliated with: these include Angara, Victoria Sy-Alvarado and Matias Defensor, Jr..\n\nOther government officials have been implicated as well in the PDAF scam. Agriculture Secretary Proceso Alcala, for example, was accused by Merlina Suñas, Luy's fellow whistleblower, of being complicit in the scam, as his department was responsible for transferring at least ₱16 million in PDAF funds to livelihood projects managed by an NGO linked to Napoles. 97 mayors were also implicated in the scam in connection with the allocation of Malampaya gas field royalties as reconstruction aid for areas affected by Typhoons Ondoy and Pepeng which instead went to Napoles, after it was discovered that employees of the JLN Group of Companies forged their signatures to make it appear that they were requesting for aid. 44 other mayors were likewise implicated in the scam when Napoles, through fashion designer Eddie Baddeo, reportedly facilitated requests for disbursements from the Department of Agriculture's Agricultural Competitiveness Enhancement Fund (ACEF) on behalf of their municipalities. A number of mayors have denied involvement in the scam, including three mayors from Bataan, seven from Ilocos Norte, one from Pangasinan, and one from Iloilo.\n\nA second batch of criminal charges was filed by the National Bureau of Investigation on 33 individuals, including Bureau of Customs Commissioner Ruffy Biazon, who is the first political ally and party-mate of President Benigno Aquino III who has been charge in relation to the scam.\nAnother batch of names were extracted during Janet Lim-Napoles's stay in Ospital ng Makati for surgical removal of her ovarian cyst. Over 100 Representatives, 2 Cabinet officials and more than 20 current and former Senators are being investigated. Panfilo Lacson claimed he also has another list. The Philippine Daily Inquirer claims it received a hard drive containing all transactions of Napoles, Luy and other JLN Corporation agents from the accused politicians.\n\nA number of investigations are currently ongoing or will be organized to determine the extent of the PDAF scam. On July 16, 2013, the Office of the Ombudsman announced that it was forming a special six-person panel initially to investigate the projects bankrolled by the 23 legislators originally named in the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\", in parallel with the NBI investigation against Napoles. The next day, President Aquino ordered the Department of Justice to conduct and \"extensive and fair probe\" of the scam, which Napoles also asked for on July 27. Despite calls for the investigation to be made open to the public, Justice Secretary Leila de Lima refused, stating at the time that it was too early for the DOJ investigation to be made public when the NBI was still gathering data on the scam.\n\nMembers of Congress have also called for parallel investigations in both the Senate and the House of Representatives as to the extent of the scam. Despite calls by Senator Francis Escudero to have the scam investigated, the Senate initially agreed not to investigate the scam on August 5, instead opting to wait for the results of the investigations being conducted by the DOJ, the Ombudsman, the NBI and the Commission on Audit before launching its own investigation. However, following the release of the CoA report which implicated more legislators in the scam, the Senate eventually agreed to conduct its own investigation, which would be led by its Blue Ribbon Committee.\n\nThe House of Representatives, meanwhile, has refused to conduct a probe, with Speaker Feliciano Belmonte, Jr. claiming that the House investigating its own members would be \"messy\", instead preferring to wait for the results of the DOJ investigation. This is despite the clamor from a number of representatives, mostly from the minority bloc not allied with President Aquino, that the House should conduct its own investigation into the matter.\n\nFollowing the release of the CoA report, the DOJ is expected to expand its investigation beyond the evidence originally provided by Luy and the other Napoles whistleblowers. It is also looking at forming either a joint or a parallel investigation with the Ombudsman and the NBI, although its main focus for the time being is on Napoles' involvement in the scam.\n\nNapoles surrendered to President Benigno Aquino III at 9:37 pm on August 28. The president gave the DILG secretary Mar Roxas and PNP director Gen. Alan Purisima custody over Napoles for booking and processing.\n\nThe NBI and Justice Secretary, Leila De Lima filed the cases of plunder and malversation of public funds against businesswoman Janet Lim-Napoles, senators Ramon Revilla Jr., Juan Ponce Enrile, Jinggoy Estrada and five former representatives on September 16.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, The Supreme Court declared PDAF as unconstitutional.\n\n\nOn August 26, 2013, thousands of people went to Luneta Park in protest against the pork barrel scheme. The gathering was dubbed the \"Million People March\". After this, a prayer vigil dubbed \"EDSA Tayo\" was held on September 11 at the EDSA Shrine, where around 500-700 people attended the vigil. Two days later another protest was held at Luneta where, according to police estimates, about 3,000 people participated. The organizers stated that another rally dubbed \"Level Up\" would be scheduled for September 21 (with a noise barrage held before the event), and another \"Million People March\" protest would be held in December.\n\n"}
{"id": "35573212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35573212", "title": "Race and ethnicity in Colombia", "text": "Race and ethnicity in Colombia\n\nRace and ethnicity in Colombia descends mainly from three racial groups—Amerindians, Africans, and Caucasians—that have mingled throughout the last 500 years of the country's history. Some demographers describe Colombia as one of the most ethnically diverse countries in the Western Hemisphere and in the World, with 85 different ethnic groups. Most Colombians identify themselves and others according to ancestry, physical appearance, and sociocultural status. Social relations reflect the importance attached to certain characteristics associated with a given racial group. Although these characteristics no longer accurately differentiate social categories, they still contribute to one's rank in the social hierarchy. Genetic research with over 60,000 blood tests and 25 variables, determined that the average Colombian (of all races) has an admixture of 70% European, 20% native Amerindian and 10% African ancestry, however these proportions vary widely from one region to another. These proportions also vary widely among ethnicities.\n\nColombia officially acknowledges three ethnic minority groups: the Afro-Colombian, indigenous, and Romani populations. The Afro-Colombian population consists mainly of blacks, mulattoes, raizales, palenqueros, and zambos (a term used since colonial times for individuals of mixed Amerindian and black ancestry). A 1999 resolution of the Ministry of the Interior and Justice acknowledged the Romani population as a Colombian ethnic group, although Romani people were not recognized in the 1991 constitution (unlike the Afro-Colombian and indigenous populations). Estimates vary widely, but the 2005 census found that the ethnic minority populations had increased significantly since the 1993 census, possibly owing to the methodology used. Specifically, it reported that the Afro-Colombian population accounted for 10.5 percent of the national population (4.3 million people); the Amerindian population, for 3.4 percent (1.4 million people); and the Romani population, for 0.01 percent (5,000 people).\n\nThe 2005 census reported that the \"non-ethnic population\", consisting of whites, mestizos and castizos, constituted 86 percent of the national population. The 86 percent figure is subdivided into 49 percent mestizo and 37 percent white.\n\nA minute percentage of the insular population originated in Scotland and Syria.\n\nThe various groups exist in differing concentrations throughout the nation, in a pattern that to some extent goes back to colonial origins. The Whites tend to live mainly in the urban centers, particularly like Bogotá or Medellín, and the burgeoning highland cities. The populations of the major cities are primarily white and mestizo. The large Mestizo population includes most \"campesinos\" (people living in rural areas) of the Andean highlands where some Spanish conquerors had mixed with the women of Amerindian chiefdoms. Mestizos had always lived in the cities as well, as artisans and small tradesmen, and they have played a major part in the urban expansion of recent decades.\n\nAccording to the 2005 census, the heaviest concentration of the indigenous population (22 to 61 percent) is located in the departments of Amazonas, La Guajira, Guainía, Vaupés, and Vichada. The secondary concentrations of 6 to 21 percent are located in the departments of Sucre, Córdoba, Chocó, Cauca, Nariño, and Putumayo. Amerindian communities have legal autonomy to enforce their own traditional laws and customs. Despite its small percentage of the national population, the indigenous population has managed to obtain nearly a quarter of the country's land titles under the 1991 constitution.\n\nThe 1991 National Constitution of Colombia defined Territorial Entities (\"Entidades Territoriales\") as departments, districts, municipalities and indigenous territories.\nWithin an Indigenous Territory Entity (ETI) the people have autonomy in managing their interests, and within the limits of the constitution have the right to manage resources and define taxes required to perform their duties. ETIs are to be defined by the government in conformance with the Organic Law on Land Management.\nHowever, this law has yet to be sanctioned so in practice the territories are unregulated.\n\nThe Black, Zambo and Mulatto populations have largely remained in the lowland areas on the Caribbean and Pacific coasts, its islands, and along the Cauca and Magdalena Rivers. The Afro-Colombian population is concentrated primarily (21% to 80% of their departments) in the departments of Chocó, San Andrés, department of Bolívar and in the lowland parts of Cauca (communities such as Lopez de Micay, Guapi, and Timbiqui), and Valle del Cauca departments (in areas like the largest city on the Pacific coast Buenaventura and large concentration in Cali), with secondary concentrations (10 to 18 percent of the departments) in Atlántico, Córdoba, Magdalena, Nariño (communities like El Charco, Tumaco and Barbacoas), Antioquia (mostly in La Uraba region), La Guajira, Cesar, and Sucre departments. Chocó is the department with the largest concentration of African-descendants in Colombia. \n\nThe population of the Archipelago of San Andrés, Providencia and Santa Catalina, which Colombia inherited from Spain after the Spanish had overcome an initial British settlement, is mostly Afro-Colombian, including several thousand \"raizal\" (those with roots) blacks. Despite the length of time during which Colombia has had jurisdiction over them, most \"raizales\" on these Caribbean islands have retained their Protestant religion, have continued to speak an English-based creole language as well as English, and have regarded themselves as a group distinct from mainland residents. A minute percentage of the insular population originated in Scotland and Syria.\n\nSince independence both Amerindians and blacks have continued to reside on the outskirts of national life. As a group, however, blacks have become more integrated into the national society and have left a greater mark on it for several reasons. Amerindians were new to Spanish|British social structures. The Spanish and the British had long possessed Africans as slaves and did not find them as alien as the Amerindians they encountered in the New World. Moreover, it was more difficult for the blacks to maintain their original culture because, unlike the indigenous people, they could not remain within their own communities and did not initially have the option of retreating into isolated areas. Moreover, the blacks came from different areas of Africa, often did not share the same language or culture, and were not grouped into organized social units on arrival in the New World. Despite slave revolts, no large community of escaped slaves survived in isolation to preserve its African heritage, as did the maroons in Jamaica, except for the village of Palenque de San Basilio, located southeast of Cartagena, which was one of the walled communities called 'palenques', founded by escaped slaves as a refuge in the seventeenth century. Of the many palenques that existed in former times, only the one of San Basilio has survived until the present day and developed into a unique cultural space.\nFinally, despite their position on the bottom rung of the social ladder, black slaves often had close relations—as domestic servants—with Spaniards and British and were therefore exposed to Spanish|British culture much more than were the Amerindians. Thus, blacks became a part—albeit a peripheral one—of Colombian society from the beginning, adopting the ways of the Spanish|British that were permitted them and learning their language. By the end of the colonial period, the blacks thought of themselves as Colombians and felt superior to the Amerindians, who officially occupied higher status, were nominally free, and were closer in skin color, facial features, and hair texture to the emerging mestizo mix.\n\nMany blacks left slave status early in Colombian history, becoming part of the free population. Their owners awarded freedom to some, others purchased their liberty, but probably the greatest number achieved freedom by escape. Many slaves were liberated as a result of revolts, particularly in the Cauca valley and along the Caribbean coast. The elimination of slavery began with a free-birth law in 1821, but total emancipation was enacted only in 1851, becoming effective on January 1, 1852.\n\nThose blacks who achieved freedom sometimes moved into Amerindian communities, but blacks and zambos remained at the bottom of the social scale and were important only as a source of labor. Others founded their own settlements, mainly in unsettled lands of the Pacific basin where they were called \"cimarrones\" (maroons). Those regions were very unhealthy, inhospitable, and dangerous. A number of towns, such as San Basilio de Palenque in the present department of Bolívar, and San José de Uré in southern Córdoba, kept the history of revolt alive in their oral traditions. In the Chocó area, along the Pacific, many of the black communities remained relatively unmixed, probably because there were few whites in the area, and the Amerindians became increasingly resistant to assimilation.\n\nIn other regions, such as San Andrés y Providencia, or the Magdalena valley, black communities had considerable white and/or Amerindian admixture. Descendants of slaves have preserved relatively little of their African heritage or identification. Some placenames are derived from African languages, and some traditional musical instruments brought into the country by slaves are used throughout the country. Religion in the black communities remains the most durable link with the African past. Wholly black communities have been disappearing, not only because their residents have been moving to the cities but also because the surrounding mestizo and white populations have been moving into black communities. Eventual absorption into the mixed milieu appears inevitable. Moreover, as blacks have moved into the mainstream of society from its peripheries, they have perceived the advantages of better education and jobs. Rather than forming organizations to promote their advancement as a group, blacks have for the most part concentrated on achieving mobility through individual effort and adaptation to the prevailing system.\n\nAfro-Colombians are entitled to all constitutional rights and protections, but they continue to face significant economic and social discrimination. According to the 2005 census, an estimated 74 percent of Afro-Colombians earned less than the minimum wage. Chocó, the department with the highest percentage of Afro-Colombian residents, had the lowest level of social investment per capita and ranked last in terms of education, health, and infrastructure. It also continued to experience some of the country's worst political violence, as paramilitaries and guerrillas struggled for control of the department's key drug- and weapons-smuggling corridors.\n\nColombia has received across its history different groups of immigrants.\n\nWhite Colombians are mainly of Spanish descent, who arrived in the beginning of the 16th century when Colombia was part of the Spanish Empire. During the 19th and 20th centuries, other European and Middle Eastern peoples migrated to Colombia, notably Lebanese people but also Palestinians, Syrians, Germans, Italians, French, Lithuanians, and British among others.\n\nColombia was one of early focus of Basque and Sephardi immigration. Between 1540 and 1559, 8.9% of the residents of Colombia were of Basque origin. Basque priests introduced handball into Colombia. Jewish converts to Christianity and some crypto-Jews also sailed with the early conquistadors.\n\nMany immigrant communities have settled on the Caribbean coast, in particular recent immigrants from the Middle East. Barranquilla (the largest city of the Colombian Caribbean) and other Caribbean cities have the largest populations of Lebanese, Palestinian, and other Arabs. In some sectors of society there is a considerable input of Italian and German ancestry.\n\nThere are also important communities of Chinese, Japanese, Romanis and Jews. British and Jamaicans migrated mainly to the islands of San Andres and Providencia.\n\nSince 2010 there is a major migration trend of Venezuelans, due to the political and economic situation in Venezuela.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1767172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767172", "title": "Reich Labour Service", "text": "Reich Labour Service\n\nThe Reich Labour Service (\"Reichsarbeitsdienst\"; RAD) was a major organisation established in Nazi Germany as an agency to help mitigate the effects of unemployment on the German economy, militarise the workforce and indoctrinate it with Nazi ideology. It was the official state labour service, divided into separate sections for men and women.\n\nFrom June 1935 onward, men aged between 18 and 25 may have served six months before their military service. During World War II compulsory service also included young women and the RAD developed to an auxiliary formation which provided support for the Wehrmacht armed forces.\nIn the course of the Great Depression, the German government of the Weimar Republic under Chancellor Heinrich Brüning by emergency decree had established the \"Freiwilliger Arbeitsdienst\" ('Voluntary Labour Service', FAD) on 5 June 1931, two years before the Nazi Party (NSDAP) ascended to national power. The state sponsored employment organisation provided services to civic and land improvement projects, from 16 July 1932 it was headed by Friedrich Syrup in the official rank of a \"Reichskommissar\". The idea of a national compulsory service was quite popular, especially in right-wing circles, but it had little effect on the economic situation.\n\nThe concept was adopted by Adolf Hitler, who upon the Nazi seizure of power in 1933 appointed Konstantin Hierl state secretary in the Reich Ministry of Labour, responsible for FAD matters. Hierl was already a high-ranking member of the NSDAP and head of the party's labour organisation, the \"Nationalsozialistischer Arbeitsdienst\" or NSAD. Hierl developed the concept of a state labour service organisation similar to the \"Reichswehr\" army, with a view to implementing a compulsory service. Meant as an evasion of the regulations set by the 1919 Treaty of Versailles, voluntariness initially was maintained after protests by the Geneva World Disarmament Conference.\n\nHierl's rivalry with Labour Minister Franz Seldte led to the affiliation of his office as a FAD \"Reichskommissar\" with the Interior Ministry under his party fellow Wilhelm Frick. On 11 July 1934, the NSAD was renamed \"Reichsarbeitsdienst\" or RAD with Hierl as its director until the end of World War II. By law issued on 26 June 1935, the RAD was re-established as an amalgamation of the many prior labour organisations formed in Germany during the Weimar Republic, with Hierl appointed as Reich Labour Leader (\"Reichsarbeitsführer\") according to the \"Führerprinzip\". With massive financial support by the German government, RAD members were to provide service for mainly military and to a lesser extent civic and agricultural construction projects. Per Reich Labor Service Act of June 26, 1935 \"(1) The Reich Labor Service is an honorary service to the German people.(2) All young Germans of both sexes are obliged to serve their people in the Reich Labor Service.(3) The Reich Labor Service is to educate the German youth in the spirit of National Socialism to the national community and to the true working attitude, above all to the due respect of manual labor.(4) The Reich Labor Service is intended for the performance of charitable work.[. . .]\n\nThe RAD was divided into two major sections, one for men (\"Reichsarbeitsdienst Männer - RAD/M\") and the voluntary, from 1939 compulsory, section for young women (\"Reichsarbeitsdienst der weiblichen Jugend - RAD/wJ\").\n\nThe RAD was composed of 33 districts each called an \"Arbeitsgau\" (lit. Work District) similar to the \"Gaue\" subdivisions of the Nazi Party. Each of these districts was headed by an \"Arbeitsgauführer\" officer with headquarters staff and a \"Wachkompanie\" (Guard Company). Under each district were between six and eight \"Arbeitsgruppen\" (Work Groups), battalion-sized formations of 1200–1800 men. These groups were divided into six company-sized RAD-Abteilung units.\n\nConscripted personnel had to move into labour barracks. Each rank and file RAD man was supplied with a spade and a bicycle. A paramilitary uniform was implemented in 1934; beside the swastika brassard, the RAD symbol, an arm badge in the shape of an upward pointing shovel blade, was displayed on the upper left shoulder of all uniforms and great-coats worn by all personnel. Men and women had to work up to 76 hours a week.\n\nThe RAD was classed as \"Wehrmachtgefolge\" (lit. Defence Force Following). Auxiliary forces with this status, while not a part of the Armed Forces themselves, provided such vital support that they were given protection by the Geneva Convention. Some, including the RAD, were militarised.\n\nJust prior to the outbreak of World War II, nearly all the RAD/M's extant RAD-Abteilung units were either incorporated into the Heer's \"Bautruppen\" (Construction troops) as an expedient to rapidly increase their numbers or else in a few cases transferred to the Luftwaffe to form the basis of new wartime construction units for that service. New units were quickly formed to replace them. \n\nDuring the early war Norwegian and Western campaigns, hundreds of RAD units were engaged in supplying frontline troops with food and ammunition, repairing damaged roads and constructing and repairing airstrips. Throughout the course of the war, the RAD were involved in many projects. The RAD units constructed coastal fortifications (many RAD men worked on the Atlantic Wall), laid minefields, manned fortifications, and even helped guard vital locations and prisoners.\nThe role of the RAD was not limited to combat support functions. Hundreds of RAD units received training as anti-aircraft units and were deployed as RAD Flak Batteries. Several RAD units also performed combat on the eastern front as infantry. As the German defences were devastated, more and more RAD men were committed to combat. During the final months of the war RAD men formed 6 major frontline units, which were involved with serious fighting. On the western front RAD troops were used as reinforcements to the 9th SS Engineer Abt (SS-Captain Moeller) in the fighting to retake the northern end of the Arnhem bridge from British Paratroopers under Col. Frost. This action was during Operation Market-Garden in September 1944. It was noted that the RAD troops had no combat experience. SS-Captain Moeller's report concluded: \"These men were rather skeptical and reluctant at the beginning, which was hardly surprising. But when they were put in the right place they helped us a lot; and in time they integrated completely, becoming good and reliable comrades.\" Losses for these troops were in the hundreds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6935884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6935884", "title": "Relationship education", "text": "Relationship education\n\nRelationship education promotes practices and principles of premarital education, relationship resources, relationship restoration, relationship maintenance, and evidence-based marriage education.\n\nThe formal organization of relationship education in the United States began in the late 1970s by a diverse group of professionals concerned that the results of conventional methods and means of marriage therapy resulted in no appreciable reduction in the elevated rate of divorce and out-of-wedlock births. \n\nThe motivation for relationship education was found in numerous studied observations of the elevated rates of marital and family breakdown, school drop-outs, incarceration, drug addiction, unemployment, suicide, homicide, domestic abuse and other negative social factors when divorce and/or out-of-wedlock pregnancy were noted. In all of the negative categories noted above, statistical over-representation of adults whose childhood did not involve both of their parents was present.\n\nInitial planning for the field of relationship education involved the participation of psychologists, counselors, family life educators, social workers, marriage and family therapists, psychiatrists, clergy from various faith traditions, policy makers, academicians in the fields of social science, attorneys, judges, and lay persons. The goal was to seek the broadest possible dispersal of research and marriage education skills courses which could improve interpersonal relationship functioning, especially with married and pre-marital couples.\n\nEarly contributors to the field of relationship education included David and Vera Mace, who founded The Association for Couples in Marriage Enrichment. The Maces conducted their first couples retreat in 1962. Bernard and Louise Guerney launched the \"Institute for the Development of Emotional and Life Skills,\" later known as \"Relationship Enhancement,\" in 1972. In 1975, Lori Heyman Gordon developed a semester-long, 120-hour relationship education course for American University graduate students, which she called \"PAIRS,\" an acronym for the \"Practical Application of Intimate Relationship Skills.\" Virginia Satir, considered the \"Mother of Family Therapy,\" began training therapists as relationship educators in 1984.\n\nTwo large scientific studies published in 2011 provided evidence that marriage and relationship education helps reduce divorce among military and distressed couples. Another showed evidence of significant gains for singles, couples and as a potential strategy to reduce rates of teen pregnancy. Other studies, notably the Building Strong Families Program, have shown that relationship education does not \"improve relationship quality/satisfaction\" for low-income, unwed couples, while another provided evidence of statistically significant benefits for low-income married couples.\n\nIn 1984, Satir encouraged marriage and family therapists to shift their focus to relationship education:\n\nSatir said the need for relationship education emerged from shifting gender roles as women gained greater rights and freedoms during the 20th century:\n\nThe National Council on Family Relations focuses on preparing professionals in family life education, a prominent approach to relationship education.\n\nIn 2006, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services began funding significant multi-year demonstration projects through the Administration for Children and Families to expand the availability of marriage education classes in more than 100 communities nationwide. This project, known as the \"Healthy Marriage Initiative,\" was designed to improve the well-being of children by providing tools and education to strengthen marriages and families.\n\nJeffry H. Larson conducted several studies on marriage and relationship education, including a review of three widely used premarital inventories - Focus, Prepare, and Relate.\n\nA multi-year federal study, known as the Building Strong Families Program, and 2010 meta-analysis of 47 studies found that relationship education \"does not improve relationship quality/satisfaction\" for unmarried couples.\n\n\"Previous studies have asserted that premarital education programs have a positive effect on program participants. Using meta-analytic methods of current best practices to look across the entire body of published and unpublished evaluation research on premarital education, we found a more complex pattern of results. We coded 47 studies and found that premarital education programs do not improve relationship quality/satisfaction when unpublished studies are included in the analysis, although studies that follow couples past the honeymoon stage to detect prevention effects are rare. In contrast, premarital education programs appear to be effective at improving couple communication, with studies that employed observational measures rather than self-report measures producing large effects. Still, given the mixed, modest results, there is ample room and a real need to improve the practice of premarital education.\"\n\nBetween 2002 and 2011, Mathematica Policy Research conducted the Building Strong Families Program study for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, \"to learn whether well-designed interventions can help couples fulfill their aspirations for a healthy relationship, marriage, and a strong family.\"\n\nThe study specifically evaluated the impact of relationship education classes delivered to more than 5,000 low-income, unwed couples at 12 locations in seven states. \"The intervention featured up to 42 hours of multi-couple group sessions led by trained facilitators, focusing on skills that, according to earlier research, are associated with relationship and marital stability and satisfaction.\"\n\nIn May 2010, Mathematica reported findings from a 15-month follow-up of program and control group participants:\n\n\nSeveral studies, notably the Supporting Healthy Marriage Project funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, a meta-analysis by Hawkins and Ooms and a five-year impact report by Peluso, Eisenberg and Schindler found that relationship education provided statistically significant benefits for married couples.\n\n\"The emerging evidence suggests that MRE [marriage and relationship education] programs can work for low-income populations as well as for those who are economically better off. The evidence from a new meta-analysis of 15 program evaluations (including three randomized control trials) shows that MRE programs can have positive, moderate size effects on low-income couples’ relationship outcomes, at least in the short run. However, the largest and most rigorous study of low-income, unmarried couples produced mixed results and shows there is still much to learn ... Across nearly all the studies reviewed for this Report, MRE improves communication—a core, essential relationship skill—as well as other measures of relationship quality. There is also some initial evidence that MRE for low-income couples can decrease divorce rates, reduce aggression, and improve children’s problem behaviors.\n\nIn August 2012, Manpower Development Research Corporation (MDRC), a nonprofit, nonpartisan social policy research organization, reported that a federally funded, multi-year, random assignment, control group study known as the Supporting Healthy Marriage Project found high levels of consumer satisfaction among 4,989 adults participating in relationship education courses based on the work of PREP Inc., PAIRS Foundation and John Gottman at sites in Florida (Orlando), Kansas (Wichita), Pennsylvania (Reading and Bethlehem), Texas (El Paso and San Antonio), New York (Bronx), Oklahoma (Oklahoma City), and Washington (Shoreline and Seattle). A 12-month report on the program's impact found:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12275373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12275373", "title": "Rifian people", "text": "Rifian people\n\nThe Rifian people, in Tarifit: Irifiyen, by others also known as Riff, Riyefa or Ruafa, are a Berber speaking people of Northwestern Africa, who derive their name from the Rif region in the northern edge of Morocco. Being a part to Gibraltar Arc and living close to the Iberian peninsula, communities of Rifian people are found both in northeastern Morocco and southern Spain, as well as elsewhere in Western Europe and North Africa. Their native settlements were Arabized and Islamized in and after the 7th-century, during the early expansion of Islam. They are overwhelmingly maraboutic Sunni Muslims, but retain their pre-Islamic traditions such as high status for Rifian women.\n\nAccording to Irina Casado i Aijon, Rifian people have traditionally organized themselves under \"patrilineality and patrilocality principles\". The oldest man in the household commands authority and responsibility for decisions, while women jointly care for the young and sick without any discrimination. The Rifian people have retained some of their traditional occupations, such as working in pig meat industry, despite being Muslims and \"pig meat\" being haram in Islam. Like other Berbers, temporary migration is an accepted tradition. The Rifians have been a significant source of Morocco emigrants into some European countries such as the Netherlands.\n\nThe Rifian people speak the Tamazight group of Berber languages, specifically Tarifit or Zenatiya. The languages spoken depend on the region, with many Rifian who speak a Berber language also speaking Arabic or Spanish. Nineteen groups or social units of Rifians are known: 5 in the west along the Mediterranean coast which speak Arabic, 7 in the centre of which one speaks mainly Arabic and rest Rif language, 5 in the east and 2 in the southeastern desert area also speak the Rif-Berber language.\n\nThey have inhabited an impoverished and an eroded, deforested, poorly irrigated region. Poverty rate and infant mortality rates among the Rifian people has been high, according to a study published in 1980 by Terri Joseph. The Rifians have lived a largely settled, agricultural lifestyle, using hand tools, oxen and cattle to plow the steeply terraced land in their valleys. Horticultural produce along with sheep and goat meat, cheese, and milk provide the traditional sustenance. Some practice sardine-seining along the Mediterranean coast.\nThe Rifian people have experienced numerous wars over their history. Some of their cultural traditions reflects and remembers this history, such as the singing and dancing of \"Ayara Liyara, Ayara Labuya\", which literally means \"Oh Lady oh Lady, oh Lady Buya\" and is accompanied by \"izran\" (couplets) and \"addjun\" (tambourine tapping). This tradition, states Hsain Ilahiane, is linked to the 11th-century destruction and deaths of the Rifian fathers during the raid by the Almoravid leader Yusuf ibn Tashfin. In more modern times, the Rif War caused numerous deaths of Rifian people and of Spanish as well as French soldiers. The Rif War witnessed the use of chemical weapons in the 1920s by the Spanish army.\n\nIn 1958, some Rifian communities launched a modern nationalist movement. In the decades that followed, the Rif region has witnessed Rifian demonstrations and demands for recognition of Rifian language, culture and Berber studies at schools and universities. A resurgent Rifian nationalism in 2010, their protests in 2013 and protests in 2017 for \"hogra\" – a humiliating treatment by an abusive state, has drawn public attention, as well as claims of brutal suppression by Moroccan authorities.\n\nThe Rifians are divided into these tribes and tribal groups:\n\n"}
{"id": "3395010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395010", "title": "Roundabout Appreciation Society", "text": "Roundabout Appreciation Society\n\nThe Roundabout Appreciation Society (UKRAS) is a group of people in the United Kingdom that discuss traffic roundabouts. The main topic of discussion is the architecture of the roundabouts, including their design and safety features. Other topics have included the approaches people take when driving towards and around a roundabout, and the wildlife present on some of the larger junctions. Their aim is to promote safe driving and consideration towards other road users.\n\nThe society was formed by Kevin Beresford after the success of a calendar that showed photographs of 12 roundabouts in Redditch – it sold 100,000 worldwide. As of 2013, the association is reportedly trying to attract more women members, by putting a windmill on the front cover of its calendar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2069127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2069127", "title": "Santo Daime", "text": "Santo Daime\n\nSanto Daime is a syncretic religion founded in the 1930s in the Brazilian Amazonian state of Acre by Raimundo Irineu Serra, known as Mestre Irineu. Santo Daime incorporates elements of several religious or spiritual traditions including Folk Catholicism, Kardecist Spiritism, African animism and indigenous South American shamanism, including \"vegetalismo\".\n\nCeremonies — \"trabalhos\" (Brazilian Portuguese for \"works\") — are typically several hours long and are undertaken sitting in silent \"concentration\", or sung collectively, dancing according to simple steps in geometrical formation. Ayahuasca, referred to as Daime within the practice, which contains several psychoactive compounds, is drunk as part of the ceremony. The drinking of Daime can induce a strong emetic effect which is embraced as both emotional and physical purging.\n\nSanto Daime churches promote a wholesome lifestyle in conformity with Irineu's motto of \"harmony, love, truth and justice\", as well as other key doctrinal values such as strength, humility, fraternity and purity of heart. The practice became a worldwide movement in the 1990s.\n\nSanto Daime, sometimes called simply the 'Doctrine of Mestre Irineu', is the name given to the religious practice begun in the 1920s in the far western Brazilian state (then-territory) of Acre by Raimundo Irineu Serra, a migrant from Maranhão in Brazil's northeast region.\n\nIrineu Serra was born in Brazil in 1892 to African parents and migrated to the Western Amazon region in 1912, attracted to a boom in the rubber tapping industry. He first drank ayahuasca in the border region between Brazil, Bolivia, and Peru. As a result of experiencing a series of visions whilst spending eight days in solitude in the forest, he began to conduct spiritual ceremonies using ayahuasca. Many people came to him sick, seeking healing they could not afford or failed to find in standard medical practice.\n\nOriginally, Santo Daime teachings had no basis in written text, as early practitioners were illiterate, learning being experiential, through singing of inspired hymns exploring the perennial values of love, harmony and strength through poetic and metaphorical imagery. The hymn collections of early practitioners have since become the sacred works of the doctrine.\n\nDevotional in context, the songs praise divine principles. The Cross of Caravacca (named after the eponymous town, Caravaca), with its double horizontal beam, stands on the altar. Each session begins and ends with Christian prayers. Santo Daime practice features several kinds of rituals. Two of these are \"concentrações\" (\"concentrations\") and \"bailados\" (\"dances\"), also known as \"hinários\" (\"hymnals\"). Other rituals focus on the saying of the rosary or on healing. Participants drink Daime in all types of rituals; but the format and focus will differ; concentrations are silent, seated meditations, while hymnals involve dancing and singing hymns while playing maracas.\n\nThe Christian core is combined with other elements, such as an emphasis on personal gnosis and responsibility, an animist appreciation of nature, such as the Sun, Moon and Stars, as well as the totemic symbol of the \"beija-flor\" (hummingbird). Spiritual beings from indigenous Amazonian shamanism and deities from the African pantheon such as Ogum and Iemanjá are also incorporated into the doctrine. The nature of the work is sometimes personified and addressed as \"Juramidam\", a name disclosed to Irineu in his visionary experience, which means literally, \"God (jura) and his soldiers (midam)\".\n\nAyahuasca, consumed by Daimistas in ceremonies, has many different traditional names, but is known within the Santo Daime as Santo Daime, meaning Holy Daime, or simply, Daime, as originally named by Irineu. \"Dai-me\" (with a hyphen) means \"give me\" in Portuguese. A phrase, \"Dai-me força, dai-me amor\" (\"give me strength, give me love\"), recurs in the doctrine's hymns.\n\nParticipants in the ritual come to submit themselves to a process through which they may learn. This may include various wonders — ayahuasca is known for the visions it generates, and the sense of communion with nature and spiritual reality — as well as more mundane, less pleasant lessons about the self. The Daime is thought to reveal both positive and various negative or unresolved aspects of the individual, resulting in difficult \"passages\" involving the integration of this dissociated psychological content.\n\nCeremonies are referred to as \"works\". The effects of Daime combined with dancing, singing and concentration for up to twelve hours require and develop stamina or \"firmeza\" (firmness).\n\nThe teachings of Santo Daime are transmitted through its hymns which, when sung, are intended to facilitate first hand experience of the divine. Musical accompaniment often includes the unison rhythmic playing of maracas, in strict 4:4 or 3:4 time, along with typical folk instruments such as guitars, accordion or flute. Irineu's hymn book contains 129 songs, and chronicles his spiritual journey and evolution from when he began drinking the Daime until his death. Through the singing of his hymns, the participant may connect with the spirit, teachings, and experience of Irineu and, in many ways, begin walking the same spiritual path.\n\nThe singing of the hinarios of early and senior members of the church coincides with official dates on the Santo Daime calendar. A significant proportion of members of the Santo Daime community also make collections of unique songs that they experience internally in connection with their practise. The process of experiencing such new songs in this context is referred to as \"receiving\".\n\nThe death of Mestre Irineu in 1971 resulted in a diversification within the Santo Daime community. From a global perspective, the most significant of these occurred when Sebastião Mota de Melo, commonly called Padrinho Sebastião (\"Godfather Sebastião\"), left the original center with a group of his followers, and formed a distinct group known as CEFLURIS (now called ICEFLU). Many of Padrinho Sebastião's followers were Brazilians from the country's affluent south or citizens of other South American countries who were interested in Daime because of their experience with middle-class counterculture.\n\nAccording to church documents, this split also entailed disagreement over the use of cannabis. Followers of Sebastião Mota de Melo believed cannabis to be a healing plant teacher, and referred to it as Santa Maria, using it in ceremony to help their mediumship (embodying of spirits for the purpose of healing). Subsequently, CEFLURIS formally addressed the issue of the ceremonial use of cannabis, and its use is now officially prohibited in and around the spiritual works. Followers of Mestre Irineu's original church have always regarded the use of cannabis, as well as mediumship generally, as outside the doctrine. \n\nIn the early 1980s Padrinho Sebastião moved the church headquarters to the village of Céu do Mapiá, in the Brazilian state of Amazonas. Control of CEFLURIS was increasingly shared with the its members who joined the movement in the 1970s, and in the 1980s CEFLURIS established centers in southern Brazil. The group now has affiliates in North America, Europe, and Japan, as well as throughout Brazil.\n\nAyahuasca, which contains the psychoactive compound dimethyltryptamine (DMT), has been the subject of increasing legal scrutiny in the last few decades as Santo Daime has expanded. The decoction has been explicitly legal for religious use in Brazil since 1986, while recent legal battles in Europe have legalized its use in the Netherlands and Spain. In the United States, the Supreme Court in 2006 upheld a preliminary injunction permitting another Brazilian church, the União do Vegetal (UDV), to use ayahuasca ritually. This decision, as the result of specific litigation involving the UDV, applies only to that group, so the legal status of ayahuasca generally remains in a gray area in that country.\n\nSanto Daime's entheogenic sacrament, ayahuasca, has been used for millennia in South American indigenous cultures. It is one of the traditional tools of the shaman in South America, and in many regions is to this day a common medicine used for finding and treating various ailments as well as for its vision-inducing effects, which are said to be profound and life-changing.\n\nThe tea has had many names including Santo Daime (or simply Daime), Hoasca, Ayahuasca, Yage, and Caapi. It is made from two or more plants, one a woody vine (Ayahuasca vine or Jagube; generally \"Banisteriopsis caapi\"), and the others known as admixtures. While various plants are used throughout South America, most of which have high concentrations of dimethyltryptamine, the preferred admixture in the case of Santo Daime is \"Psychotria viridis\", known to church members as the \"Queen of the Forest,\" after the figure who is said to have appeared to the church's founder in a vision, prompting him to start the religion. DMT occurs naturally in the human body and is speculated to be released at the time of death, but it is normally digested in the stomach if consumed and an MAOI (monoamine oxidase inhibitor), in this case tetrahydroharmine, harmine and harmaline, is needed to allow it to reach the brain in this way, thus the use of the vine. The Santo Daime Church uses only the Jagube vine and the Viridis leaf, not adding any other plants to the mixture. The tea is prepared ceremoniously over a week by members of the church in a festival called a 'feitio'. Hymns are sung, and Daime is drunk while the men hammer the vine into powder and the women clean and sort the leaves. Because of the very specific manner in which they prepare their sacrament, and the very specific way in which they use it, the beverage is not called 'Ayahuasca', but 'Santo Daime'. In some communities there are very clear distinctions.\n\nDue to their usage of ayahuasca as a sacrament and the spread of the religion, Santo Daime has found itself the center of Court battles and legal wrangling in various countries.\n\nIn Brazil, CONFEN (the Federal Drug Council) has consistently upheld the right of the Daime Church to practice its religion and healing practices using the Daime. A study was made of the Daime by the CONFEN in 1987 which included visits to the various churches and observation of the making of the Daime. It also included study of another group of Ayahuasca users, who call the drink \"vegetal\" (União do Vegetal - UDV). The work group which made the study included representatives not only of the CONFEN but also of several other government agencies. The conclusion of the study was that the Daime was a very positive influence in the community, encouraging social harmony and personal integration. The study noted that, rather than simply considering the pharmacological analysis of the plants, it was essential to consider the whole context of the use of the tea—religious, social, and cultural.\n\nIn the United States, court battles over ritual use of ayahuasca have mostly been fought by the UDV, and practitioners of the Santo Daime doctrine are watching these events closely. So far, UDV has been able to continue practicing legally thanks to Supreme Court decisions that soundly rejected attempts by the government to prohibit it. As of September 2008, UDV is in negotiations with the Drug Enforcement Administration regarding regulation of their use of ayahuasca.\n\nIn September 2008, the three Oregon Santo Daime churches filed suit in federal court to gain legal status. Their trial ended January 23, 2009. The case, \"Church of the Holy Light of the Queen v. Mukasey\", presided over by Judge Owen M. Panner, is ruled in favor of the Santo Daime church. \n\nIn March 2009, Panner found that the use of hallucinogenic tea by members of such churches was legal, issuing an injunction barring the government from penalizing them for its consumption.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Santo Daime won a court case in 2001 which allowed them to continue their ceremonial usage of ayahuasca. One factor in this decision was a fax from the Secretary of the International Narcotics Control Board to the Netherlands Ministry of Public Health, stating that \"[P]reparations (e.g. decoctions) made of these plants, including ayahuasca are not under international control and, therefore, not subject to any of the articles of the 1971 Convention\".\n\nIn France, Santo Daime won a court case allowing them to use the decoction in early 2005; however, they were not allowed an exception for religious purposes, but rather for the simple reason that they did not perform chemical extractions to end up with pure DMT and harmala and the plants used were not scheduled. Four months after the court victory, the common ingredients of ayahuasca as well as harmala were declared \"stupéfiants\", or narcotic scheduled substances, making the Daime and its ingredients illegal to use or possess.\n\nThe most recent decision came in Italy in 2006; an eight-month-long investigation had led to the arrest of 24 Italian Santo Daime members in early 2005, but the May 2006 ruling found that no sufficient evidence had been presented to demonstrate that the church members had broken Italian law.\n\nTwo particularly important research projects are worth highlighting. The first is the official investigation made by the Brazilian government at the end of the 1980s, which resulted in the legalization of the religious use of ayahuasca in Brazil in 1992. The second is 'The Hoasca Project' developed by a collective of international scholars. The Hoasca Project presented important findings regarding the use of ayahuasca as an agent of healing, something it is famous for in its indigenous context.\n\nAnother longitudinal research using a control group, but also controlling for rural vs. urban area, was conducted by a team of Spanish researchers and looked at church members that have used ayahuasca for 15 years and at least 2 times per month. The study was led by José Carlos Bouso and funded by MAPS. The study \"found no evidence of psychological maladjustment, mental health deterioration or cognitive impairment in the ayahuasca-using group.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "27644194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27644194", "title": "Sardinian people", "text": "Sardinian people\n\nThe Sardinians, or also the Sards (; Italian and Sassarese: \"Sardi\"; Catalan: \"Sards or Sardos\"; Gallurese: \"Saldi\"; Ligurian: \"Sordi\"), are the native people and Romance ethnic group from which Sardinia, a western Mediterranean island and autonomous region of Italy, derives its name.\n\nThe ethnonym \"S(a)rd\" belongs to the Pre-Indo-European linguistic substratum. The oldest written attestation of the ethnonym is on the Nora stone, where the word \"Šrdn\" bears witness to its original existence by the time the Phoenician merchants first arrived to the Sardinian shores. According to Timaeus, one of Plato's dialogues, Sardinia and its people as well, the \"Sardonioi\" or \"Sardianoi\" (\"Σαρδονιοί\" or \"Σαρδιανοί\"), might have been named after \"Sardò\" (\"Σαρδώ\"), a legendary woman from Sardis (\"Σάρδεις\"), capital of the ancient Kingdom of Lydia in Anatolia. Pausanias and Sallust reported instead that Sardinians traced their descent back to a mythical ancestor, a Libyan son of Hercules or Melqart revered as Sardus Pater \"Babai\" (\"Sardinian Father\"), who gave the island its name. It has also been claimed that the ancient Nuragic Sards were associated with the Sherden (\"šrdn\" in Egyptian), one of the Sea Peoples. The ethnonym was then romanised, with regard for the singular masculine and feminine form, as \"sardus\" and \"sarda\".\n\nSardinia was first colonized in a stable manner during the Upper Paleolithic and the Mesolithic by people from the Iberian and the Italian peninsula. During the Neolithic period and the Early Eneolithic, people from Italy, Spain and the Aegean area settled in Sardinia. In the Late Eneolithic-Early Bronze age the \"Beaker folk\" from Southern France, Northeastern Spain and then from Central Europe settled on the island, bringing new metallurgical techniques and ceramic styles and probably some kind of Indo-European speech.\n\nThe Nuragic civilization arose in the Middle Bronze Age, during the Late Bonnanaro culture, which showed connections with the previous Beaker culture and the Polada culture of northern Italy. At that time, the grand tribal identities of Nuragic Sardinia were said to be three (roughly from the South to the North): the \"Iolei/Ilienses\", inhabiting the area from the southernmost plains to the mountainous zone of eastern Sardinia (later part of what would be called by the Romans \"Barbaria\"); the \"Balares\", living in the North-West corner; and finally the \"Corsi\" stationed in Gallura (and Corsica, to which they gave the name). Nuragic Sardinians have been connected by some scholars to the Sherden, a tribe of the so-called Sea Peoples, whose presence is registered several times in ancient Egyptian records.\n\nThe language (or languages) spoken in Sardinia during the Bronze Age is unknown, since there are no written records of such period. According to Eduardo Blasco Ferrer, the Proto-Sardinian language was akin to Proto-Basque and the ancient Iberian, while others believe it was related to Etruscan. Other scholars theorize that there were actually various linguistic areas (two or more) in Nuragic Sardinia, possibly Pre-Indoeuropeans and Indoeuropeans.\n\nIn the 9th century BC, the Phoenicians founded cities and ports along the south-west coast, such as \"Karalis\", \"Bithia\", \"Sulki\" and \"Tharros\".\n\nThe south and west part of Sardinia was annexed by the Carthaginians in the late 6th century BC and later the whole island was conquered by the Romans in the 3rd century BC, after the First Punic War. Sardinia and Corsica were then made into a single province. Sardinia, with the exception of the innerlands and especially the central mountainous area called Barbagia (\"Barbaria\" in Latin), was heavily Latinized during the Roman period, and the modern Sardinian language is considered one of the most conservative Romance languages. Besides, during the Roman rule there was a considerable immigration flow from the Italian peninsula into the island; ancient sources mention several populations of likely Italic origin settling down in Sardinia, like the \"Patulcenses Campani\" (from Campania), the \"Falisci\" (from southern Etruria), the \"Buduntini\" (from Apulia) and the \"Siculenses\" (from Sicily). Roman colonies were also established in Porto Torres (\"Turris Libisonis\") and \"Usellus\". Strabo gave a brief summary about the Mountaineer tribes, living in what would be called \"civitates Barbariae\", who refused assimilation during Roman rule, \"Geographica\" V ch.2:There are four nations of mountaineers, the Parati, Sossinati, Balari, and the Aconites. These people dwell in caverns. Although they have some arable land, they neglect its cultivation, preferring rather to plunder what they find cultivated by others, whether on the island or on the continent, where they make descents, especially upon the Pisatæ. The prefects sent [into Sardinia] sometimes resist them, but at other times leave them alone, since it would cost too dear to maintain an army always on foot in an unhealthy place.\n\nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire, Sardinia was ruled in rapid succession by the Vandals, the Byzantines, the Ostrogoths and again by the Byzantines.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the island was divided into four independent Kingdoms (known individually in Sardinian as \"Judicadu\", \"Giudicau\" or simply \"Logu\", that is \"place\"; in ); all of them, with the exception of that of Arborea, fell under the influence of the Genoese and Pisan maritime republics, as well as some noble families of the two cities, like the Doria and the Della Gherardesca. The Doria founded the cities of Alghero and \"Castelgenovese\" (today Castelsardo), while the Pisans founded \"Castel di Castro\" (today Cagliari) and \"Terranova\" (today Olbia); the famous count Ugolino della Gherardesca, quoted by Dante Alighieri in his \"Divine Comedy\", favored the birth of the mining town of \"Villa di Chiesa\" (today Iglesias), which became an Italian medieval commune along with Sassari and Castel di Castro.\n\nFollowing the Aragonese conquest of the Sardinian territories belonging to Pisa, which took place between 1323 and 1326, and then the long conflict between the Aragonese Kingdom and the Giudicato of Arborea (1353–1420), the newborn Kingdom of Sardinia became one of the states of the Crown of Aragon. The Aragonese repopulated the cities of Castel di Castro and Alghero with Iberian colonists, mainly Catalans. A local dialect of Catalan is still spoken by a minority of people in the city of Alghero.\n\nIn the 16th and 17th centuries, the main Sardinian cities of Cagliari (the capital of the Kingdom), Alghero and Sassari appear well placed in the trades of the time. The cosmopolitan composition of its people provides evidence of it: the population was not only indigenous, but also hailing from Spain, Liguria, France and the island of Corsica in particular. Especially in Sassari and across the strip of territory that goes from Anglona to Gallura, the Corsicans became the majority of the population at least since the 15th century. This migration from the neighboring island, which is likely to have led to the birth of the Tuscan-sounding Sassarese and Gallurese dialects, went on continuously until the 19th century.\n\nThe Spanish era ended in 1713, when the whole island was ceded to the Austrian House of Habsburg, followed with another cession in 1718 to the Dukes of Savoy, who assumed the title of \"Kings of Sardinia\". During this period, Ligurian colonists, escaped from Tabarka, settled on the little islands of San Pietro and Sant'Antioco (at Carloforte and Calasetta), in the south-west area of Sardinia, bringing with them a Gallo-Italic dialect called \"Tabarchino\", still widely spoken there. Then, the Piedmontese Kingdom of Sardinia annexed the whole Italian peninsula and Sicily in 1861 after the Risorgimento, becoming the Kingdom of Italy.\nSince 1850, with the reorganization of the Sardinian mines, there had been a considerable migration flow from the Italian peninsula towards the Sardinian mining areas; these mainland miners came mostly from Lombardy, Piedmont, Tuscany and Romagna. According to an 1882 census realised by the French engineer Leon Goüine, in the south-western Sardinian mines worked 10.000 miners, one third of which coming from the Italian mainland; most of them settled in Iglesias and \"frazioni\" .\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, communities of fishermen from Sicily, Torre del Greco (Campania) and Ponza (Lazio) migrated on the east coasts of the island, in the towns of Arbatax/Tortolì, Siniscola and La Maddalena.\n\nIn the 20th century, a large immigration flow from the Italian peninsula during the Fascist period occurred, as a result of a government policy: a number of people hailing from Veneto but also from Marche, Abruzzo and Sicily came to Sardinia to populate the island, especially the new mining town of Carbonia and the villages of \"Mussolinia di Sardegna\" (now Arborea) and Fertilia; besides, after World War II, Istrian Italian refugees were relocated in the Nurra region, along the north-west coastline. Today Istriot, Venetian and Friulan are spoken by the elderly in Fertilia, Tanca Marchese and Arborea. In the same period, few Italian Tunisian families settled in the sparsely populated area of Castiadas, east of Cagliari.\n\nFollowing the Italian economic miracle, a historic migratory movement from the inland to the coastal and urban areas of Cagliari, Sassari-Alghero-Porto Torres and Olbia, which today collect most of the people, took place.\n\nWith a population density of 69/km, slightly more than a third of the national average, Sardinia is the fourth least populated region in Italy. The population distribution is anomalous compared to that of other Italian regions lying on the sea. In fact, contrary to the general trend, urban settlement has not taken place primarily along the coast but towards the centre of the island. Historical reasons for this include repeated Moorish raids during the Middle Ages (making the coast unsafe), widespread pastoral activities inland, and the swampy nature of the coastal plains (reclaimed only in the 20th century). The situation has been reversed with the expansion of seaside tourism; today all Sardinia's major urban centres are located near the coasts, while the island's interior is very sparsely populated.\n\nIt is the region of Italy with the lowest total fertility rate (1.087 births per woman), and the region with the second-lowest birth rate; The Sardinian fertility rate is actually the lowest in the world. However, the population in Sardinia has increased in recent years because of massive immigration, mainly from the Italian mainland, but also from Eastern Europe (esp. Romania), Africa and China.\n\nAs of 2013, there were 42.159 foreign (that is, any people who have not applied for Italian citizenship) national residents, forming 2.5% of the total population.\n\nAverage life expectancy is slightly over 82 years (85 for women and 79.7 for men).\n\nSardinia is the first discovered Blue Zone, a demographic and/or geographic area of the world where people live measurably longer lives. Sardinians share with the Ryukyuans from Okinawa (Japan) the highest rate of centenarians in the world (22 centenarians/100,000 inhabitants). The key factors of such a high concentration of centenarians are identified in the genetics of the Sardinians, lifestyle such as diet and nutrition, and the social structure.\n\n\nMost Sardinians are native to the island but a sizable number of people have settled outside Sardinia: it had been estimated that, between 1955 and 1971, 308,000 Sardinians have emigrated to the Italian mainland. Sizable Sardinian communities are located in Piedmont, Liguria, Lombardy, Tuscany and Latium.\n\nThe Region of Sardinia keeps a register of overseas Sardinians that managed to set up, in the Italian mainland and the rest of the world, a number of cultural associations: these are meant to provide the people of Sardinian descent, or those with an interest on Sardinian culture, an opportunity to enjoy a wide range of activities. As of 2012, there are 145 clubs registered on it.\n\nUnlike the rest of Italian emigration, where migrants were mainly males, between 1953–1974 an equal number of females and males emigrated from Sardinia to the Italian mainland.\n\nThe most common Sardinian surnames, like \"Sanna\" (fang), \"Piras\" (pears), \"Pinna\" (feather, pen) and \"Melis\" (honey), derive from the Sardinian language and developed in the Middle Ages as a result of being registered in documents like the condaghes for administrative purposes; most of them derive either from Sardinian place names (e.g. \"Fonnesu\" \"from Fonni\", \"Busincu\" \"from Bosa\" etc.), from animal names (e.g. \"Porcu\" \"pig\", \"Piga\" \"magpie\", \"Cadeddu\" \"puppy\" etc.) or from a person's occupation, nickname (e.g. \"Pittau\" \"Sebastian\"), distinctive trait (e.g. \"Mannu\" \"big\"), and filiation (last names ending in -\"eddu\" which could stand for \"son of\", e.g. \"Corbeddu\" \"son/daughter of Corbu\"). Some local surnames also derive from terms of the Paleo-Sardinian substrate. The largest percentage of last names originating from outside the island is Corsican, followed by Italian and Spanish (especially Catalan) surnames. \n\nAs to what pertains to given names, the most widespread on the island are now the Italian ones. Nevertheless, a is historically attested and they were prevalent among the islanders up until the contemporary era.\n\nAlongside Italian (\"Italiano\") that, once first introduced in the island by law in July 1760, became the official language of the Piedmontese Kingdom at the expense of Spanish and Catalan, Sardinian (\"su sardu\") is the other most widely spoken language of the island and has also been the historical language of indigenous Sards, ever since Latin supplanted the old Paleo-Sardinian. However, because of a rather rigid model of Italian education system that strongly discouraged the Sardinian youth from learning and speaking their language, the numbers of people retaining Sardinian have gradually become a minority in their own island, giving way to a regional variety of Italian instead. As a result of that, Sardinian is currently facing challenges analogue to other minority languages across Europe, and both the Logudorese and Campidanese dialects (the main varieties of Sardinian) have been designated as definitely endangered by UNESCO. The other languages spoken on Sardinia, all also endangered but with much fewer speakers than Sardinian, are not indigenous to the island but developed after the settlement of certain ethnic communities, namely Corsicans, Catalans and Genoese, in different regions of the island over recent centuries; these include Sassarese (\"Sassaresu\"), Gallurese (\"Gadduresu\"), Algherese Catalan (\"Alguerés\"), and Ligurian Tabarchino (\"Tabarchin\").\n\nThe so-called flag of the Four Moors is the historical and official flag of Sardinia. The flag is composed of the St George's Cross and four Moor's heads wearing a white bandana in each quarter. Its origins are basically shrouded in mystery, but it is presumed it originated in Aragon to symbolize the defeat of the Saracen invaders in the battle of Alcoraz.\n\nSardinia's Say (\"Sa die de sa Sardigna\" in Sardinian) is a holiday celebrated each 28 April to commemorate the revolt occurring from 1794 to 1796 against the feudal privileges, and the execution or expulsion of the Savoyard officials (including the Piedmontese viceroy, Balbiano) from Sardinia on 28 April 1794. The rebellion was spurred by the King's refusal to grant the island the autonomy the locals demanded in exchange for defeating the French. The holiday has been formally recognised by the Sardinian Council since 14 September 1993. Some public events are annually held to commemorate the episode, while the schools are closed.\n\nThe vast majority of the Sardinians are baptized as Roman Catholic, however church attendance is one of the lowest in Italy (21.9%).\nOur Lady of Bonaria is the Patroness Saint of Sardinia.\n\nColourful and of various and original forms, the Sardinian traditional clothes are a clear symbol of belonging to specific collective identities. Although the basic model is homogeneous and common throughout the island, each town or village has its own traditional clothing which differentiates it from the others.\n\nIn the past, the clothes diversified themselves even within the communities, performing a specific function of communication as it made it immediately clear the marital status and the role of each member in the social area. Until the mid-20th century the traditional costume represented the everyday clothing in most of Sardinia, but even today in various parts of the island it is possible to meet elderly people dressed in costume.\n\nThe materials used for their packaging are among the most varied, ranging from the typical Sardinian woollen fabric (\"orbace\") to silk and from linen to leather. The various components of the feminine apparel are: the headgear (\"mucadore\"), the shirt (\"camisa\"), the bodice (\"palas\", \"cossu\"), the jacket (\"coritu\", \"gipone\"), the skirt (\"unnedda\", \"sauciu\"), the apron (\"farda\", \"antalena\", \"defentale\"). Those of the male are: the headdress (\"berritta\"), the shirt (\"bentone\" or \"camisa\"), the jacket (\"gipone\"), the trousers (\"cartzones\" or \"bragas\"), the skirt (\"ragas\" or \"bragotis\"), the overcoat (\"gabbanu\", \"colletu\") and the \"mastruca\", a sort of sheep or lamb leather jacket without sleeves (\"mastrucati latrones\" or \"thieves with rough wool cloaks\" was the name by which Cicero denigrated the Sardinians who rebelled against the Roman power).\n\nSardinians, while being part of the European gene pool, are outliers in the European genetic landscape (together with the Basques, the Sami and the Icelanders) in part because of particular phenomena that are often found in isolated populations, such as the founder effect and the genetic drift. The data seem to suggest that the current population is derived in large part from the Stone age settlers, with some other minor contributions in the Chalcolithic and the early Bronze age; the contribution, in terms of gene flow, of the historical colonizers appears in fact to be very scarce. The researchers found the Basques to be the genetically closest population to the Sardinians, and that such similarity is not mediated by the influence of other Spaniards in modern times.\n\nRecent comparisons between the Sardinians' genome and that of some individuals from the Neolithic and the early Chalcolithic, who lived in the Alpine (Oetzi), German, and Hungarian regions, showed considerable similarities between the two populations, while at the same time consistent differences between the prehistoric samples and the present inhabitants of the same geographical areas were noted. From this it can be deduced that, while central and northern Europe have undergone significant demographic changes due to post-Neolithic migrations, presumably from the eastern periphery of Europe (Pontic-Caspian steppe) and possibly from Scandinavia, Southern Europe and Sardinia in particular were affected less; Sardinians appear to be the population that has best preserved the Neolithic legacy of Western Europe. A 2015 study estimated that roughly 84% of the Sardinian ancestry derives from the Neolithic Europeans (a hybrid population of Mesolithic Europeans and Anatolian farmers), while the remaining 16% derives from Late Neolithic/Bronze age Central Europeans (Neolithic Europeans mixed with steppe pastoralists).\n\nHowever, Sardinians as a whole are not a homogeneous population genetically: some studies have found some differences among the various villages of the island; in this regard, the mountainous area of Ogliastra (part of the wider region of Barbagia) is more distant from the rest of Europe and the Mediterranean than other Sardinian sub-regions located in the plains and in the coastal areas, in part because these more accessible areas show, like the rest of much of Europe, a moderate genetic influx from the Yamna culture pastoralists, thought to be the carriers of Indo-European languages into Europe, while Ogliastra has retained unaltered Mesolithic/Neolithic roots.\n\nAccording to a study released in 2014, the genetic diversity among some Sardinian individuals from different regions of the island is between 7 and 30 times higher than the one found among other European ethnicities living thousands kilometers away from each other, like Spaniards and Romanians. A similar phenomenon is common to some other isolated populations, like the Ladin groups living in Veneto and the Alpine area, where the regional orography negatively affected the amount of interactions among each other.\n\nHowever, while a very high degree of interindividual genetic differentiation has been detected on multiple occasions, other studies have also stated that such variability does not occur among the main macro-regions of the island: a Sardinian region like the Barbagia has been proven not to be significantly different from the regions on the coast, like the area of Cagliari and Oristano. Another study, based on the multinomial logistic regression model, suggested again a high degree of homogeneity within the Sardinian population.\n\nThe SardiNIA study in 2015 showed, by using the \"F\" differentiation statistic, a clear genetic differentiation between Sardinians (whole genome sequence of 2120 individuals from across the island and especially the Lanusei valley) and mainland Italian populations (1000 genomes), and reported an even greater difference between Sardinians from the Lanusei valley and other European populations. This pattern of differentiation is also evident in the lengths for haplotypes surrounding rare variants loci, with a similar haplotype length for Sardinian populations and shorter length for populations with low grade of common ancestry.\n\n"}
{"id": "18861786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18861786", "title": "Sindhi bhagat", "text": "Sindhi bhagat\n\nSindhi Bhagat is a Sindhi folk art incorporating song, dance, story and drama. It is the most popular Sindhi folk form of entertainment.\n\nBhagat developed through the years. Its origin could be traced to the ancient bards who wandered through the countryside singing and narrating the old heroic ballads of the lovers and warriors of the olden times. The Sindhi Bhagat acquired its distinct form over a century ago, gradually developing into the current popular source of cultural entertainment. Its performances became more professional and it became a collectively created folk-art form.\n\nThe pivotal character in the performance is the \"Bhagat\", after whom the art form is named. He is the prime dancer, the storyteller, and the soul of the performance. The others are the \"Boldias\" (supporting players) and also the players of musical instruments such as harmonium, tabla, dholak, khanjri, etc., simple rhythmical instruments.\n\nThe Bhagat combines the finer qualities of different performing arts in such an effective and appealing order that the audience are kept spellbound for hours together, because the Bhagat is supposed to start late in the evening, when the village or town folk have taken their night meal and are ready to sit till the early hours of the next morning. Men, women and children partake of the bewitching pleasure of the performance, often sitting through the night.\n\nThe Bhagat with his melodious voice, the delicate rhythm of his steps, body movements and very effective dramatised storytelling, keeps the audience glued to their seats without even blinking their eyes throughout the show. He has a variegated voice, creating different moods – be it pathos, agony, humour, melody, glory, or tragedy as required for the narration. He moves the hearts of his audience, bringing laughter or tears as the situation demands.\n\nBhagat is the most important and integral part of Sindhi folk-art, a rich cultural heritage of the Sindhi community and widely acclaimed. There were once scores of these versatile artists in the countryside as well as in the urban pockets of Sind. However, after partition of the country this folk art is on the decline due to a variety of reasons, including the influence of electronic mass media and socio-economic compulsion. However, there are still a few prominent Bhagats who are dedicated and perform occasionally.\n\n[Special thanks to Shri Kirat Babani for giving us this input and information.]\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of Sindhi Bhagats who are considered to be promoters and preservers of the rich Sindhi heritage and culture:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59214281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59214281", "title": "The Fertility Transition in Iran: Revolution and Reproduction", "text": "The Fertility Transition in Iran: Revolution and Reproduction\n\nThe Fertility Transition in Iran: Revolution and Reproduction is a 2009 book by Meimanat Hosseini-Chavoshi, Peter McDonald and Mohammad Jalal Abbasi-Shavazi in which the authors examine the fertility rate changes in the Islamic Republic of Iran.\nThe book was awarded Iran's Book of the Year Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "48867691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48867691", "title": "Touring club de France", "text": "Touring club de France\n\nThe Touring club de France (1890-1983) was a French social club devoted to travel, founded by enthusiasts of the velocipede. Its headquarters sat on the Avenue de la Grande Armée in Paris. \n\nThe idea of the Touring club de France was inspired by the british Cyclists' Touring Club, founded in 1873 and also devoted to cyclism, and promoted in France under the impulse of Paul de Vivie.\n\nThe archives of the Touring club de France were given in 1984 to the French National Archives (number 53 AS).\n\nThe Touring club de France used to award several prizes to support mountain guides fathers of large families. The Jean S. Barès Prize was awarded to mountain guides from the Pyrénées, living above an altitude of 500 meters and raising at least seven children, all born at that altitude or above. The recipient of that prize in 1928 was Pierre Mayneris, a mountain guide from Baillestavy, near the Canigou, who received 2400 francs as a support to raise his nine children. The Brunier Prize was the equivalent for mountain guides living in the French Alps above an altitude of 1000 meters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22030451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22030451", "title": "Women's education in the United States", "text": "Women's education in the United States\n\nHigher education was designed for men in colonial America. Since the 1800s women's positions and opportunities in the educational sphere have increased. In 1982, women surpassed men in number of bachelor's degrees conferred in the United States, and more bachelor's degrees have been conferred on women each year since. Since 2005, the majority of degrees in each category (including master's, and doctoral) have been conferred on women in the U.S.\n\nSince the early 1980s, women have surpassed men in terms of college enrollment rates.\n\nAccording to Ellen DuBoise and Lynn Dumenil, they estimate that the number of bachelor and doctorate degrees from 1950-1980 for women are:\n\nIn Colonial America elementary education was widespread in New England, but limited elsewhere. New England Puritans believed it was necessary to study the Bible, so boys and girls were taught to read at an early age. It was also required that each town pay for a primary school. About 10 percent enjoyed secondary schooling. Few girls attended formal schools, but most were able to get some education at home or at so-called \"Dame schools\" where women taught basic reading and writing skills in their own houses. By 1750, nearly 90% of New England's women and almost all of its men could read and write. There was no higher education for women.\n\nTax-supported schooling for girls began as early as 1767 in New England. It was optional and some towns proved reluctant. Northampton, Massachusetts, for example, was a late adopter because it had many rich families who dominated the political and social structures and they did not want to pay taxes to aid poor families. Northampton assessed taxes on all households, rather than only on those with children, and used the funds to support a grammar school to prepare boys for college. Not until after 1800 did Northampton educate girls with public money. In contrast, the town of Sutton, Massachusetts, was diverse in terms of social leadership and religion at an early point in its history. Sutton paid for its schools by means of taxes on households with children only, thereby creating an active constituency in favor of universal education for both boys and girls.\nHistorians point out that reading and writing were different skills in the colonial era. School taught both, but in places without schools reading was mainly taught to boys and also a few privileged girls. Men handled worldly affairs and needed to read and write. Girls only needed to read (especially religious materials). This educational disparity between reading and writing explains why the colonial women often could read, but could not write and could not sign their names—they used an \"X\".\n\nAcross the South, there was very little public schooling. Most parents either home schooled their children using peripatetic tutors or sent them to small local private schools. A study of women's signatures in Georgia indicates a high degree of literacy in areas with schools. In South Carolina, scores of school projects were advertised in the \"South Carolina Gazette\" beginning in 1732.\n\nCoinciding with the beginnings of the first wave of feminism in the 20th century came the attempt by women to gain equal rights to education in the United States. Women's rights organizations focused on adjusting and increasing women's place in the public arena by arguing that the only fundamental differences between women and men were socially constructed ones, and thus women should be offered the same extensive and practical education that were offered to men. After long battles against gender oppression women finally obtained the right to be educated through several government acts/conventions, the opening of facilities willing to educate them, and the opportunity to continue into higher education.\n\nEducation was a controversial topic in the 1930s,“ and sex-segregated school systems protected “the virtue of female high school students.” .” Home economics and industrial education were new elements of the high school curriculum designed for unmistakably women's occupations. These classes taught women practical skills such as sewing, cooking, and using the new domestic inventions of the era; unfortunately, this “formal training offered women little advantage in the struggle for stable work at a liveable wage.”\n\nThe 1930s also saw tremendous changes in women’s education at the college level. In 1900, there were 85,338 female college students in the United States and 5,237 earned their bachelor's degrees; by 1940, there were 600,953 female college students and 77,000 earned bachelor's degrees. This increase was partially explained by the “contemporary discourse that reinforced the need for higher education for women in their positions as wives, mothers, citizens, and professionals.”\n\nBecause the proper role for a white, middle class woman in 1930s American society was that of wife and mother, arguments in favor of women's education emphasized concepts of eugenics and citizenship. Education showed women how to exercise their civic responsibilities, and it showed them the importance of the vote. Participation in student government trained women “early to become leaders later.” One study showed that in 1935, 62 percent of women college graduates voted compared to only 50 percent of women who did not attend college.\n\nThe basic assumption in the 1930s was that women should marry. There was also the perception that college educated women were less likely to marry, either because they “waited too long” or because the college experience which broadened their minds deluded them into believing “marriage should be between equals.” Others argued college made women better wives and mothers because it “imparted practical skills.”\n\nIn addition, the 1930s marked great economic hardship in the United States with the start of the Great Depression. At this point in history, a college major was expected to be a practical one. As difficult financial times neared, needing to justify college expenses became very real for women and their families. A study in 1924 that surveyed nearly sixteen-hundred woman PhD recipients concluded that seventy percent required grants, scholarships, and fellowships in order to cover the expense associated with earning a higher degree. Despite the financial support, the majority of these women were required to save money for years before pursuing their degrees because the aid was never enough. Despite these disadvantages, the 1930s marked the peak of woman PhD earners. These degrees varied in fields and began to legitimize fields for women that were once off-limits.\n\nThe \"self-support\" that these women engaged in to help finance their education became a widely accepted necessity. Both men and women were forced to find ways of supporting their education at this period of time. To help lessen the financial burden faced by families trying to educate their children, the National Youth Administration was created by the United States Government. Between 1935 and 1943, the NYA spent nearly 93 million dollars providing financial assistance. Despite the growing increasing opportunities for women in education, there was a constant need to justify the expense. As the number of college graduates increased, those who were displaced during the Great Depression had to compete with a younger and more-educated group of people.\n\nThe 1930s also marked the 10th anniversary of Women's suffrage in the United States. Despite earning the right to vote, women were still largely refused any role in positions of political power that allow them to make political change for their gender. Despite growing numbers of women graduates, many were denied positions that they were qualified for in favor of men. This struggle sparked new examples of political activism and increased support for an Equal Rights Amendment.\n\nTeaching and nursing were the top two fields for women throughout the 1930s, but home economics also experienced a great surge in popularity during the Depression. Home economics brought a scientific language to the traditional women’s sphere of the home and raised “homemaking to the status of a respectable--though definitely female--occupation.” Social work, child development, and nursery school educational programs were also popular.\n\nIn addition to this strong vocational orientation in American education during the opening decades of the twentieth century, women began to make slow inroads into traditionally male dominated areas of education such as business, science, medicine, architecture, engineering, and law. Women were also able to gain positions of responsibility within the federal government because of the watershed events of the New Deal.\n\nPrior to the American Civil War few colleges admitted women. Founded in 1772 as a primary school, Salem College is the oldest female educational establishment.\n\nSome were founded as co-educational institutions; Oberlin College, founded in 1833, was the first college to accept women and African Americans as students.\n\nOther early coeducational schools included Hillsdale College founded as Michigan Central College in Spring Arbor, Michigan in 1844, and Antioch College founded by noted educator Horace Mann in 1852 in Yellow Springs, Ohio. Hollins University, founded as Valley Union Seminary in Roanoke, Virginia, in 1842 as a co-educational institution but became all-female in 1952;\n\nA number of colleges were founded before the Civil War with all-female student bodies, including (among others, in addition to Salem): Mount Holyoke College of South Hadley, Massachusetts, founded in 1837 by Mary Lyon as Mount Holyoke Female Seminary; Wesleyan College of Macon, Georgia, founded in 1839 as Georgia Female College, which claims to be \"the first college in the world chartered to grant degrees to women\"; Queens College (now Queens University) of Charlotte, North Carolina, founded in 1857 as Charlotte Female Institute; Averett College (now Averett University) of Danville, Virginia, founded in 1859 as Union women's College; and Vassar College, founded in Poughkeepsie, New York in 1861.\n\nWith the start of the war many males were in uniform so more opportunities arose for women to fill the empty space in schools and the universities became more willing to admit the women. Slowly more educational institutions opened their doors to women; today, there are 60 women's colleges in the United States offering educational programs that parallel co-educational universities both in subject matter and in quality.\n\nIn 1848 the Seneca Falls Convention was held in New York to gain support for education and suffrage but it had little immediate impact. This convention is significant because it created a foundation for efforts toward equal education for women, even though it was not actually achieved until much later.\n\nThe Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act of 1862 founded universities to educate both men and women in practical fields of study, though women's courses were still centered around home economics. By 1870 30% of colleges were co-educational, later in the 1930s women-only colleges were established that expanded opportunities for courses of study to include more intellectual development as opposed to domestic instruction.\n\nIn July 1975 “Title IX regulations became effective as law” (Margaret Fund of NWLC, 2012). The law provided one year for compliance to elementary schools and three years for compliance to high schools and post secondary institutions. Through the 1970s the law’s enactment, opposition towards the legislation, and initial compliance for the law were the focus. According to the Margaret Fund (2012), in 1982 a court case was won upholding the nondiscriminatory acts in employment, the case title is as follows, 1982 North Haven Bd. of Ed. v. Bell, 456 U.S. 512 (1982). In 1984, the case Grove City v. Bell, 465 U.S. 555 (1984) a, “U.S. Supreme Court decision held that federal spending clause statutes only apply to those programs or activities that receive direct federal financial assistance, effectively ending Title IX applicability to athletics” (Margaret Fund of NWLC). This decision is later remedied in the late 80’s by the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987. In 1988, this act was passed by Congress and reversed the damage from the Grove City v. Bell decision. The Margaret Fund (2012) states, “It over-rode the Grove City v. Bell decision by expanding the definition of program or activity that receives Federal financial assistance” (Margaret Fund of NWLC, para.5). During the 1990s three significant changes or continuations to the law were made in the course of the decade. First, a Supreme Court decision allowed an individual to sue for monetary retributions by citing the Title IX Act. Second, the disclosure act in 1994 stated that all institutions under Title IX were to report publicly on their operations, with an effective implementation date set for 1996. Third, the ORC distributed requirements to institutions and schools which are explained and outlined more clearly the regulations for Title IX. The significant events in the 2000s allow schools to use e-mail surveys, and due to a Supreme Court case in 2009, lawsuits on the basis of sexual discrimination under Title IX can be brought by parents.\n\n1727: Founded in 1727 by the Sisters of the Order of Saint Ursula, Ursuline Academy, New Orleans, enjoys the distinction of being both the oldest continuously operating school for girls and the oldest Catholic school in the United States.\n\n1742: Moravians in Pennsylvania established the first all-girls boarding school in America, the Bethlehem Female Seminary to serve the Moravian community in and near Bethlehem. In 1863 it became a college. In 1913 it became Moravian Seminary and College for Women. Historians accept Moravian as the oldest—though not continuously operational because of its current co-ed status—specifically female institute of higher learning in the United States.\n\n1783: Washington College in Chestertown, Maryland, appointed the first women instructors at any American college. Elizabeth Callister Peale and Sarah Callister taught painting and drawing.\n\n1803: Bradford Academy in Bradford, Massachusetts was the first higher educational institution to admit women in Massachusetts. It was founded as a co-educational institution, but became exclusively for women in 1837.\n\n1826: The first American public high schools for girls were opened in New York and Boston.\n\n1829: The first public examination of an American girl in geometry was held.\n\n1831: As a private institution in 1831, Mississippi College became the first coeducational college in the United States to grant a degree to a woman. In December 1831 it granted degrees to two women, Alice Robinson and Catherine Hall.\n\n1837: Bradford Academy in Bradford, Massachusetts, due to declining enrollment, became a single-sexed institution for the education of women exclusively.\n\n1837 Mount Holyoke College was founded by Mary Lyon.\n\n1849: Elizabeth Blackwell, born in England, became the first woman to earn a medical degree from an American college, Geneva Medical College in New York.\n\n1850: Lucy Sessions earned a literary degree from Oberlin College, becoming the first African American woman in the United States to receive a college degree.\n\n1851: The Adelphean Society, now called Alpha Delta Pi Women's Fraternity, was founded at Wesleyan Female College in Macon, Georgia and became the first secret society for women.\n\n1855: The University of Iowa becomes the first coeducational public or state university in the United States.\n\n1858: Mary Fellows became the first woman west of the Mississippi River to receive a baccalaureate degree.\n\n1862: Mary Jane Patterson became the first African-American woman to earn a BA in 1862. She earned her degree from Oberlin College.\n\n1864: Rebecca Crumpler became the first African-American woman to graduate from a U.S. college with a medical degree and the first and only African-American woman to obtain the Doctress of Medicine degree from New England Female Medical College in Boston, MA.\n\n1866: Lucy Hobbs Taylor became the first American woman to earn a dental degree, which she earned from the Ohio College of Dental Surgery.\n\n1866: Sarah Jane Woodson Early became the first African-American woman to serve as a professor. Xenia, Ohio’s Wilberforce University hired her to teach Latin and English in 1866.\n\n1869: Fanny Jackson Coppin was named principal of the Institute for Colored Youth in Philadelphia, becoming the first African-American woman to head an institution for higher learning in the United States.\n\n1870: Ada Kepley became the first American woman to earn a law degree, from Northwestern School of Law.\n\n1870: Ellen Swallow Richards became the first American woman to earn a degree in chemistry, which she earned from Vassar College in 1870.\n\n1871: Frances Elizabeth Willard became the first female college president in the United States, as president of Evanston College for Ladies in Illinois.\n\n1871: Harriette Cooke became the first woman college professor in the United States appointed full professor with a salary equal to her male peers.\n\n1871: Japanese women are allowed to study in the USA (though not yet in Japan itself).\n\n1873: Linda Richards became the first American woman to earn a degree in nursing.\n\n1877: Helen Magill White became the first American woman to earn a Ph.D., which she earned at Boston University in the subject of Greek.\n\n1878: Mary L. Page became the first American woman to earn a degree in architecture, which she earned from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\n\n1879: Mary Eliza Mahoney became the first African-American in the U.S. to earn a diploma in nursing, which she earned from the School of Nursing, New England Hospital for Woman and Children in Boston.\n\n1886: Winifred Edgerton Merrill became the first American woman to earn a PhD in mathematics, which she earned from Columbia University.\n\n1889: Maria Louise Baldwin became the first African-American female principal in Massachusetts and the Northeast, supervising white faculty and a predominantly white student body at the Agassiz Grammar School in Cambridge.\n\n1889: Susan La Flesche Picotte became the first Native American woman to earn a medical degree, which she earned from Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania.\n\n1890: Ida Gray became the first African-American woman to earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery degree, which she earned from the University of Michigan.\n\n1892: Laura Eisenhuth became the first woman elected to state office as Superintendent of Public Instruction.\n\n1894: Margaret Floy Washburn became the first woman to be officially awarded the PhD degree in psychology, which she earned at Cornell University under E. B. Titchener.\n\nLate 1800s, exact date unknown: Anandibai Joshi from India, Keiko Okami from Japan, and Sabat Islambouli from Syria became the first women from their respective countries (and in Joshi's case the first Hindu woman) to get a degree in western medicine, which they each got from the Women’s Medical College of Pennsylvania (WMCP), where they were all students in 1885.\n\n1900: Otelia Cromwell became the first African-American woman to graduate from Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts.\n\n1903: Mignon Nicholson became the first woman in North America to earn a veterinary degree, which she earned from McKillip Veterinary College in Chicago, Illinois.\n\n1904: Helen Keller graduated from Radcliffe, becoming the first deafblind person to earn a Bachelor of Arts degree.\n\n1905: Nora Stanton Blatch Barney, born in England, became the first woman to earn a degree in any type of engineering in the United States, which she earned from Cornell University. It was a degree in civil engineering.\n\n1908: Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, the first African-American Greek letter organization for woman, was founded at Howard University.\n\n1909: Ella Flagg Young became the first female superintendent of a large city school system.\n\n1915: Lillian Gilbreth earned a PhD in industrial psychology from Brown University, which was the first degree ever granted in industrial psychology. Her dissertation was titled \"Some Aspects of Eliminating Waste in Teaching\".\n\n1917: Sigma Delta Tau Sorority, a Jewish women's Greek letter organization was founded at Cornell University in response to antisemitism.\n\n1921: Sadie Tanner Mossell became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in the U.S. when she earned a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Pennsylvania\n\n1922: Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority was founded. It was the fourth African-American Greek letter organization for women, and the first African-American sorority established on a predominantly white campus, Butler University in Indianapolis, Indiana.\n\n1922: Lorna Myrtle Hodgkinson became the first woman to earn a Ph.D. from Harvard, which she earned in education.\n\n1923: Virginia Proctor Powell Florence became the first African-American woman to earn a degree in library science. She earned the degree in 1923 from the Carnegie Library School, which later became part of the University of Pittsburgh.\n\n1925: Zora Neale Hurston became the first African-American woman to be admitted to Barnard college.\n\n1926: Dr. May Edward Chinn became the first African-American woman to graduate from the University and Bellevue Hospital Medical College.\n\n1929: Jenny Rosenthal Bramley, born in Moscow, became the first woman to earn a Ph.D. in physics in the United States, which she earned from New York University.\n\n1931: Jane Matilda Bolin was the first African-American woman to graduate from Yale Law School.\n\n1932: Dorothy B. Porter became the first African-American woman to earn an advanced degree in library science (MLS) from Columbia University.\n\n1933: Inez Beverly Prosser became the first African-American woman to earn a PhD in psychology, which she earned from the University of Cincinnati.\n\n1934: Ruth Winifred Howard became the second African-American woman in the United States to receive a Ph.D. in psychology, which she earned from the University of Minnesota.\n\n1935: Jesse Jarue Mark became the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in botany, which she earned at Iowa State University.\n\n1936: Flemmie Kittrell became the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in nutrition, which she earned at Cornell University.\n\n1937: Anna Johnson Julian became the first African-American woman to receive a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\n1940: Roger Arliner Young became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in zoology, which she earned from the University of Pennsylvania. Marion Thompson Wright became the first African-American woman in the United States to earn a Ph.D. in History, which she earned at Columbia University.\n\n1941: Ruth Lloyd became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in anatomy, which she earned from Western Reserve University.\n\n1941: Merze Tate became the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in government and international relations from Harvard University.\n\n1942: Margurite Thomas became the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in geology, which she earned from Catholic University.\n\n1943: Euphemia Haynes became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in Mathematics, which she earned from Catholic University.\n\n1945: Harvard Medical School admitted women for the first time.\n\n1947: Marie Maynard Daly became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in chemistry, which she earned from Columbia University.\n\n1962: Martha Bernal, who was born in Texas, became the first Latina to earn a PhD in psychology, which she earned in clinical psychology from Indiana University Bloomington.\n\n1963: Grace Alele-Williams became the first Nigerian woman to earn any doctorate when she earned her Ph.D. in Mathematics Education from the University of Chicago.\n\n1965: Sister Mary Kenneth Keller (1914? - 1985) became the first American woman to earn a PhD in Computer Science, which she earned at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Her thesis was titled \"Inductive Inference on Computer Generated Patterns.\"\n\n1972: Title IX was passed, making discrimination against any person based on their sex in any federally funded educational program(s) in America illegal.\n\n1972: Willie Hobbs Moore became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in Physics, which she earned from the University of Michigan.\n\n1975: In 1975, Lorene Rogers became the first woman named president of a major research university, The University of Texas.\n\n1975: On July 1, 1975, Jeanne Sinkford became the first female dean of a dental school when she was appointed the dean of Howard University, School of Dentistry.\n\n1976: U.S. service academies (US Military Academy, US Naval Academy, US Air Force Academy and the US Coast Guard Academy) first admitted women in 1976.\n\n1977: The American Association of Dental Schools (founded in 1923 and renamed the American Dental Education Association in 2000) had Nancy Goorey as its first female president in 1977.\n\n1977-1978: For the first time, more associate degrees are conferred on women than men in the United States. More associate degrees have been conferred on women every year since.\n\n1979: Christine Economides became the first American woman to earn a PhD in petroleum engineering, which she earned from Stanford University.\n\n1979: Jenny Patrick became the first African-American woman in the United States to earn a Ph.D. in chemical engineering, which she earned from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\n1980: Women and men were enrolled in American colleges in equal numbers for the first time.\n\n1981-1982: For the first time, more bachelor's degrees are conferred on women than men in the United States. More bachelor's degrees have been conferred on women every year since.\n1982: \"Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan\", 458 U.S. 718 (1982) was a case decided 5-4 by the Supreme Court of the United States. The court held that the single-sex admissions policy of the Mississippi University for Women violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\n1982: Judith Hauptman earned her PhD in Talmudic studies from the Jewish Theological Seminary of New York, thus making her the first woman to earn a PhD in Talmud.\n\n1983: Christine Darden became the first African-American woman in the U.S. to earn a Ph.D. degree in mechanical engineering, which she earned from George Washington University.\n\n1984: The U.S. Supreme Court's 1984 ruling \"Grove City College v. Bell\" held that Title IX applied only to those programs receiving direct federal aid. The case reached the Supreme Court when Grove City College disagreed with the Department of Education's assertion that it was required to comply with Title IX. Grove City College was not a federally funded institution; however, they did accept students who were receiving Basic Educational Opportunity Grants through a Department of Education program. The Department of Education's stance was that, because some of its students were receiving federal grants, the school was receiving federal assistance and Title IX applied to it. The Court decided that since Grove City College was only receiving federal funding through the grant program, only that program had to be in compliance. The ruling was a major victory for those opposed to Title IX, as it made many institutions' sports programs outside of the rule of Title IX and, thus, reduced the scope of Title IX.\n\n1986-1987: For the first time, more master's degrees are conferred on women than men in the United States. More master's degrees have been conferred on women every year since.\n\n1987: Johnnetta Cole became the first African-American president of Spelman College.\n\n1988: The Civil Rights Restoration Act was passed in 1988 which extended Title IX coverage to all programs of any educational institution that receives any federal assistance, both direct and indirect.\n\n1994: Judith Rodin became the first permanent female president of an Ivy League University (specifically, the University of Pennsylvania.) \n\n1994: In 1994, the Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act, sponsored by congresswoman Cardiss Collins, required federally assisted higher education institutions to disclose information on roster sizes for men's and women's teams, as well as budgets for recruiting, scholarships, coaches' salaries, and other expenses, annually.\n\n1996: \"United States v. Virginia\", , was a landmark case in which the Supreme Court of the United States struck down the Virginia Military Institute (VMI)'s long-standing male-only admission policy in a 7-1 decision. (Justice Clarence Thomas, whose son was enrolled at VMI at the time, recused himself.)\n\n2001: Ruth Simmons became the eighteenth president of Brown University, which made her the first African-American woman to lead an Ivy League institution.\n\n2004–2005: For the first time, more doctoral degrees degrees are conferred on women than men in the United States women. More doctoral degrees have been conferred on women every year since. As of 2011, among adults 25 and older, 10.6 million U.S. women have master's degrees or higher, compared to 10.5 million men. Measured by shares, about 10.2 percent of women have advanced degrees compared to 10.9 percent of men—a gap steadily narrowing in recent years. Women still trail men in professional subcategories such as business, science and engineering, but when it comes to finishing college, roughly 20.1 million women have bachelor's degrees, compared to nearly 18.7 million men—a gap of more than 1.4 million that has remained steady in recent years.\n\n2006: On November 24, 2006, the Title IX regulations were amended to provide greater flexibility in the operation of single-sex classes or extracurricular activities at the primary or secondary school level.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37463616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37463616", "title": "Women in Chad", "text": "Women in Chad\n\nWomen in Chad, a landlocked country in Central Africa, are the mainstay of its predominantly rural-based economy and they outnumber the men. \n\nWomen face widespread discrimination and violence. Female genital mutilation, while technically illegal, is still widely practiced. Extrajudicial killings, beatings, torture, and rape were committed by security forces and other abuses with \"near total\" impunity. Amnesty International has reported that \"The widespread insecurity in eastern Chad had particularly severe consequences for women, who suffered grave human rights abuses, including rape, during attacks on villages\" by Janjawid militia from Sudan.\n\nDespite the government's efforts, overall educational levels remained low at the end of the first decade of independence. In 1971 about 99 percent of women over the age of fifteen could not read, write, or speak French, which at the time was the only official national language; literacy in Arabic stood at 7.8 percent. In 1982 the overall literacy rate stood at about 15 percent.\n\nMajor problems have hindered the development of Chadian education since independence. Financing for education has been very limited. Limited facilities and personnel also have made it difficult for the education system to provide adequate instruction. Overcrowding is a major problem; some classes have up 100 students, many of whom are repeaters. In the years just after independence, many primary-school teachers had only marginal qualifications. On the secondary level, the situation was even worse.\n\nIn 2004, 39.6 percent of children ages 5 to 14 years were attending school. Educational opportunities for girls are limited, mainly due to cultural traditions. Fewer girls enroll in secondary school than boys, primarily due to early marriage. In 1999, 54.0 percent of children starting primary school reached grade 5.\n\nChad is a source and destination country for children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced labor and forced prostitution. The country’s trafficking problem is primarily internal and frequently involves parents entrusting children to relatives or intermediaries in return for promises of education, apprenticeship, goods, or money; selling or bartering children into involuntary domestic servitude or herding is used as a means of survival by families seeking to reduce the number of mouths to feed.\n\nUnderage Chadian girls travel to larger towns in search of work, where some are subsequently subjected to prostitution. Some girls are compelled to marry against their will, only to be forced by their husbands into involuntary domestic servitude or agricultural labor. In past reporting periods, traffickers transported children from Cameroon and the CAR to Chad’s oil producing regions for commercial sexual exploitation; it is unknown whether this practice persisted in 2009.\n\n60 percent of Chadian women had been subject to female genital mutilation in 1995. The procedure is a traditional rite of passage as a girl moves into adulthood and it is followed regardless of religious orientation. It is equally common amongst Muslims, Christians and animists. Those who attain adulthood without being mutilated generally avoid it for life. Over 80 percent of the girls in Chad who suffered genital mutilation had been cut between the age of 5 and 14.\n\nIn 2012, the World Economic Forum ranked Chad among the worst regions in their Global Gender Gap Report.\n\nPolygamy is legal in Chad, and it is estimated that over a third of women live in polygamous marriages. \n\nChad has signed and ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography. \n"}
