{"id": "16144423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144423", "title": "2008 Cameroonian anti-government protests", "text": "2008 Cameroonian anti-government protests\n\nThe 2008 Cameroon protests were a series of violent demonstrations in Cameroon's biggest cities that took place from 25 to 29 February 2008. The protests followed on the heels of a strike by transport workers, who were opposing high fuel prices and poor working conditions. Further political turmoil had been caused by President Paul Biya's announcement that he wanted the constitution to be amended to remove term limits; without such an amendment, he would have to leave office at the end of his term in 2011. Large groups of youths, whom the opposition Social Democratic Front (SDF) political party and the government blame one another for organising, took to the streets of Douala, Yaoundé, Bamenda, and other major cities, looting and vandalising property. The government sent in troops to crack down on the unrest, and protesters and troops alike were killed. The official government tally is that 40 people were killed, but human rights groups claim that the total is closer to 100. Government figures place damage to property at tens of billions of francs CFA (15.2 million euros or US$23.4 million).\n\nIn response to the protests, President Biya reduced the cost of fuel, raised salaries of civil servants and military personnel, reduced the duties paid on cement, and suspended duties on essential goods such as cooking oil, fish, and rice. Government forces also claimed to have arrested more than 1,600 people, including government officials, and to have prosecuted 200. Human rights groups and defense attorneys, on the other hand, claimed that more than 2,000 people had been arrested in Douala alone and decried the trials as overly swift, secretive, and severe. The government has also cracked down on artists, media outlets and journalists it accuses of threatening national stability.\n\nThe protests grew out of a strike by the urban transport union, which consists of bus, taxi, and lorry drivers. The union was angered over the rise in fuel prices and poor working conditions in Cameroon; so they scheduled a strike for 25 February 2008. Further unrest was fomented in response to generally high cost of living in Cameroon, high unemployment among youths, and President Paul Biya's proposal that the constitution be amended to abolish term limits on the presidency and allow him to run in the 2011 election. Biya has been president of Cameroon since 1982. On 23 February, an unauthorised protest of several hundred Cameroonians in the Douala suburb of Newtown, opposing Biya's proposed constitutional reforms, was broken up by police who allegedly turned tear gas and water cannons on the demonstrators, killing at least one. Conditions in Douala were peaceful the following day until that evening, when gunfire was heard near Douala International Airport.\n\nAccording to Hamidou Yaya Marafa, Minister of State, Minister of Territorial Administration and Decentralisation, the Cameroonian government learned in January that the Social Democratic Front (SDF), the main opposition to the ruling Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (CPDM) political party, had formulated a plan they dubbed \"Operation Kenya\" to bring instability to Douala, Cameroon's biggest city and chief port. In response, the government indefinitely banned street demonstrations in the Littoral Province, where Douala is located. Undeterred, SDF leaders met at the Bamenda home of party chairman John Fru Ndi in late January, government officials claim, with the aim of organising street demonstrations across the country. Marafa says that the SDF planned to have members from both the government and civil sectors participate in the protests. Meanwhile, the SDF allegedly offered training to young people in how to stage an effective street demonstration.\n\nFru Ndi and the SDF have rejected the government's claims, citing several peaceful SDF-led protests in the past. Fru Ndi told the government to look at their own policies as the cause of the unrest. Fru Ndi said that he had information that implicated government officials with \"[manipulating] the State apparatus and its information system\" in a bid to deflect attention from their own corruption.\n\nThe protests began on 25 February 2008 in Douala. Because of the transport strike scheduled for that day and general fear, the streets were empty of all traffic but the transport used by government forces. Heavy gunfire was reported that morning, and youths burnt cars, tyres, and vegetation to block off major roads and bridges; the city was filled with plumes of smoke. Meanwhile, groups of young people looted and vandalised property, including petrol stations and a retail store. Reports on national radio said that a finance ministry building, a town hall, and other government structures were aflame. IRIN reported seeing a firefight between protesters and police at the airport and witnessing victims of gunshot wounds in the city. Police responded with widespread arrests.\n\nOn 26 February, the government agreed to a reduction in petrol prices of 6 francs CFA (less than 1 US¢) per litre, and the transport union called off its strike that night. The head of the taxi union, Jean Collins Ndefossokeng, told Radio France International that \"it is no longer a good time for the strike with the current vandalism.\" Nevertheless, violence had already gotten out of hand by this point and continued.\n\nBy 2 February, the protests had spread to other Cameroonian cities. Government figures show that the protests eventually spread to 31 municipal areas in five of Cameroon's ten provinces: the Centre, Littoral, Northwest, Southwest, and West. Marafa claims that the SDF collected and transported youths between hotpoints, including Bafoussam, Bamenda, Douala, and Yaoundé. Government forces allegedly stopped such convoys outside major cities on 25 and 27 February.\n\nWitnesses reported heavy gunfire in Yaoundé on 27 February. One resident reported rioters looting and burning a market. The government flooded the streets of the capital with soldiers. Demonstrators threw stones and erected flaming barricades. Government forces responded with tear gas. Troops were stationed throughout the city and at petrol stations, and barricades were set up. Similar methods were used in other cities, and troops in Douala used water cannons. Meanwhile, looting and burning continued in Douala, where witnesses reported victims of gunshot wounds lining the streets.\n\nAccording to a BBC reporter, troops confronted about 2,000 demonstrators on a bridge in Douala, and some 20 individuals fell into the river.\n\nIn Kumba, demonstrators marched with posters demanding Biya's resignation and for the government to reduce the cost of fuel and petroleum products. In Bamenda, some reportedly targeted boarding schools, where the nation's elite send their children. The protesters, reportedly armed with bottles of petrol, rocks, and sticks, threatened to burn the school down unless the students came with them, possibly for use as human shields against government forces. One boarding school reported that 200 teenage boys were taken by the protesters but the rest of the children were allowed to stay. Reports indicate that similar scenarios took place at other schools. Most of the children managed to escape back to the school or their parents' home. Others broke into the Social Affairs Delegation and stole 4 million\nfrancs CFA. The government accused the mayor of the Njombe-Penja Council of leading a group of demonstrators in an attack on a gendarme station in his town. The mayor was later suspended for this act and for alleged mismanagement of council funds.\n\nMeanwhile, the government reports that two Italians in Cameroon were kidnapped in Douala as part of the violence. They were brought to Bamenda, where their kidnappers demanded ransom. They were eventually let go unharmed, and no ransom was paid. A report from The Associated Press, on the other hand, says that the victims were one Croatian woman and one Italian woman and that a Croatian newspaper has stated that a ransom was indeed paid.\n\nThe unrest continued through 29 February 2008.\n\nThe government of Cameroon has held three press conferences regarding the crisis. The latest was on 10 March 2008. On 27 February, President Biya made a rare appearance on state-owned television. He accused \"certain politicians\", whom he dubbed \"apprentice sorcerers in the shadows\" with fomenting unrest and attempting to orchestrate a coup d'état.\n\nOn 27 February, the government reduced fuel costs. On 7 March, Biya declared a rise in pay of 15 percent for civil service employees to take effect 1 April and suspended duties paid on basic commodities such as cooking oil, fish, and rice. He also raised the pay of military personnel. The government reduced the custom duty paid on cement from 20 percent to 10 percent to address a shortage of building materials. It also announced plans to look at bank and telephone charges.\n\nThe government claimed to have arrested more than 1,600 people and to have found 200 guilty of looting and destruction of property with sentences of six months to three years. Human rights groups assert that the actual number of arrests is much higher, with as many as 2,000 arrests in Douala alone, due in part to an apparent randomness to the arrests of both youths who did and did not participate in the demonstrations. As of 26 March 2008, 800 accused were reportedly being held in Douala Central Prison and the government had charged 1,000 to 1,500 citizens. Such organisations and the Cameroon Bar Council spoke out against the trials, deeming them summary and secretive, with extreme sentences. A lawyer in Yaoundé claimed that defendants were being given no time to prepare a defence, and a lawyer in Douala said there was evidence the detainees had been beaten and tortured. According to one report, the defendants are tried \"en masse\" (one trial had more than 150 defendants), and defence attorneys are not alerted beforehand whom they will be asked to represent nor given access to police reports and files.\n\nOn 5 March, Jean-Michel Nintcheu, chairman of the SDF in the Littoral Province, was arrested in Douala on charges of violating the government ban on public demonstrations. On 7 March, Nintcheu announced that the SDF was calling off demonstrations in the Littoral Province due to \"the recent upheavals that rocked many parts of the province, occasioning deaths and destruction of property.\" Another SDF leader was arrested at the airport attempting to travel to Europe. He was accused of being the mastermind of the demonstrations.\n\nSome semblance of normalcy had returned to Cameroon's cities by 8 March, with traffic jams and people going about their daily business. However, Cameroonians report that the government reprisals and fear of another uprising have created a \"climate of terror\" in the country.\n\nInternational media watchdog groups have claimed that the government has heavy-handedly censored the press in Cameroon and intimidated journalists with methods that include beatings and confiscation of equipment. As of 8 March, three media outlets had been shut down by the government, which claimed the moves were in the interest of \"stability and social order\".\n\nAs of 10 March, troops were reportedly searching homes in Kumba for property stolen from Les Brasseries du Cameroun, a brewery, and Transformation Reef Cameroon, a logging company. \"The Post\" newspaper, located in Buea, claims that the troops \"torture and arrest\" anyone in possession of allegedly stolen beverages or computer equipment. If the home is clear of such items, the troops are said to destroy radio and TV equipment. Some residents accuse the soldiers of raping women and stealing money. One man reportedly committed suicide rather than face arrest after troops allegedly found 25 crates of stolen beverages in his home on 6 March.\n\nDespite the protests, the National Assembly voted to change the Constitution to remove term limits on 10 April 2008. Given the CPDM's control of the National Assembly, the change was overwhelmingly approved, with 157 votes in favor and five opposed; the 15 deputies of the SDF chose to boycott the vote in protest, denouncing it as a \"constitutional coup\". The change also provided for the President to enjoy immunity from prosecution for his actions as President after leaving office.\n\nAs of 10 March 2008, official government figures put the number of deaths at 40, which includes both government security personnel and civilians. Marafa said that total included those who had been injured and later died. He placed 30 of the deaths in Douala alone, with two dead in Yaoundé and eight in the Northwest, Southwest, and West provinces combined.\n\nOn 7 March, the Maison des Droits de L'Homme (House of Human Rights, MDH), a Cameroonian human rights organisation affiliated with the International Federation of Human Rights, claimed the death total was \"more than 100\". The government denied these figures. According to Madeleine Affite, an MDH member, in one incident alone, 18 people died in Douala. Government forces had protesters trapped on the Wouri River bridge, and people jumped into the river in desperation. Affite says that local fishermen who witnessed the incident have been told by government agents to keep quiet. In another incident, a reported 20 demonstrators were killed in Douala when government forces fired on them. She also claimed that the government has ordered morgues not to release bodies of victims to keep the scale of the deaths caused in the protests a secret. Afité claims that the bans extend to photographing the remains or publishing the results of autopsies of those who died in the protests.\n\nAccording to the government, during the demonstrations, protesters vandalised and sacked bars, bakeries, government buildings, industrial sites, 33 petrol stations, pharmacies, sales kiosks, security stations, and vehicles. The government estimates the damage caused by the protests at tens of billions of francs CFA (15.2 million euros or US$23.4 million). Government spokesman Marafa claimed that Cameroon had taken a blow to both its economy and its reputation. Finance Minister Johnson Kum Ofon of Meme division estimated the damages to Kumba alone at 695 million francs CFA (US$1.7 million or 1.1 million euros), more than the total amount allotted for infrastructural improvements for 2008.\n\nOn 12 April 2008, opposition SDF leader John Fru Ndi called for a national day of mourning for 21 April 2008 to commemorate those who died during the protests and the \"death of democracy\" in Cameroon due to the April 2008 amendments to the constitution to allow the president to run for more than two terms.Report came in that in progressive high school bamenda about 50students were killed.\n"}
{"id": "2193183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193183", "title": "Action Christian National", "text": "Action Christian National\n\nAction Christian National (ACN) was a white nationalist political party in Namibia (formerly South West Africa). The ACN was established in 1989 to enable whites to participate in the elections. It used to be aligned with the National Party of South Africa. In the Namibian parliamentary election, 1989 that elected the members of the Constituent Assembly of Namibia, ACN won three seats. The party's chairman was Jan de Wet. It subsequently became the Monitor Action Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "997696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=997696", "title": "Administrative share", "text": "Administrative share\n\nAdministrative shares are hidden network shares created by Windows NT family of operating systems that allow system administrators to have remote access to every disk volume on a network-connected system. These shares may not be permanently deleted but may be disabled. Administrative shares cannot be accessed by users without administrative privileges.\n\nAdministrative shares are a collection of automatically shared resources including the following:\n\nAdministrative shares have the following characteristics:\n\nAdministrative shares are not created by Windows XP Home Edition.\n\nThe administrative shares can be deleted just as any other network share, only to be recreated automatically at the next reboot. It is, however, possible to disable administrative shares.\n\nDisabling administrative shares is not without caveats. Previous Versions for local files, a feature of Windows Vista and Windows 7, requires administrative shares to operate.\n\nWindows XP implements \"simple file sharing\" (also known as \"ForceGuest\"), a feature that can be enabled on computers that are not part of a Windows domain. When enabled, it authenticates all incoming access requests to network shares as \"Guest\", a user account with very limited access rights in Windows. This effectively disables access to administrative shares.\n\nBy default, Windows Vista and later use User Account Control (UAC) to enforce security. One of UAC's features denies administrative rights to a user who accesses network shares on the local computer over a network, unless the accessing user is registered on a Windows domain or using the built in Administrator account. If not in a Windows domain it is possible to allow administrative share access to all accounts with administrative permissions by adding the LocalAccountTokenFilterPolicy value to the registry.\n\n"}
{"id": "5236421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5236421", "title": "Allan C. Carlson", "text": "Allan C. Carlson\n\nAllan C. Carlson (born Des Moines, Iowa, 1949) is a scholar and professor of history at Hillsdale College in Hillsdale, Michigan. He is the president of the Howard Center for Family, Religion and Society, a director of the Family in America Studies Center, the International Secretary of the World Congress of Families and editor of the \"Family in America\" newsletter. He is also former president of the Rockford Institute.\n\nCarlson earned his B. A. from Augustana College and his Ph.D. in European History from The Ohio State University. He served as a member of the Lutheran Council in America's Government Affairs Office from 1975–1978. In 1979, he became a lecturer and assistant-to-the-president at Gettysburg College. He joined The Rockford Institute in 1981, where he remained until he joined with John A. Howard in splitting off from that organization and forming the Howard Center in 1997. He was appointed to the National Commission on Children in 1988 by Ronald Reagan. In 2003, Carlson served on the faculty of Oriel College, Oxford.\n\nHis articles and treatises have addressed the underlying causes of population decline, the effects of taxation and regulation on the size and well-being of the family, as well as historical efforts to implement a family wage in the United States. He has observed that the post-World War II baby boom in the United States was largely a \"Catholic phenomenon.\" \"[T]he 1945–1964 era produced a 'heroic' flowering of Catholic family life in America. Although fertility rose for all American religious groups, it rose far more rapidly and stayed high longer among Catholics... The total marital fertility rate for non-Catholics averaged 3.15 children born per woman in the early 1950s and 3.14 in the early 1960s. For Catholics, the respective figures were 3.54 and 4.25.\"\n\nCarlson has also criticized the impact of feminism on women's roles in society as disastrous and continuing to take its toll on the family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183512", "title": "Automatic stabilizer", "text": "Automatic stabilizer\n\nIn macroeconomics, automatic stabilizers are features of the structure of modern government budgets, particularly income taxes and welfare spending, that act to dampen fluctuations in real GDP.\n\nThe size of the government budget deficit tends to increase when a country enters a recession, which tends to keep national income higher by maintaining aggregate demand. There may also be a multiplier effect. This effect happens automatically depending on GDP and household income, without any explicit policy action by the government, and acts to reduce the severity of recessions. Similarly, the budget deficit tends to decrease during booms, which pulls back on aggregate demand. Therefore, automatic stabilizers tend to reduce the size of the fluctuations in a country's GDP.\n\nTax revenues generally depend on household income and the pace of economic activity. Household incomes fall and the economy slows down during a recession, and government tax revenues fall as well. This change in tax revenue occurs because of the way modern tax systems are generally constructed.\n\nIf national income rises, by contrast, then tax revenues will rise. During an economic boom, tax revenue is higher and in a recession tax revenue is lower, not only in absolute terms but as a proportion of national income.\n\nSome other forms of taxation do not exhibit these effects, if they bear no relation to income (e.g. poll taxes, export tariffs or property taxes).\n\nMost governments also pay unemployment and welfare benefits. Generally speaking, the number of unemployed people and those on low incomes who are entitled to other benefits increases in a recession and decreases in a boom.\n\nAs a result, government expenditure increases automatically in recessions and decreases automatically in booms in absolute terms. Since output increases in booms and decreases in recessions, expenditure is expected to increase as a share of income in recessions and decrease as a share of income in booms.\n\nThis section incorporates automatic stabilization into a broadly Keynesian multiplier model.\n\nformula_1\n\nHolding all other things constant, ceteris paribus, the greater the level of taxes, or the greater the MPI then the value of this multiplier will drop. For example, lets assume that:\n\nHere we have an economy with zero marginal taxes and zero transfer payments. If these figures were substituted into the multiplier formula, the resulting figure would be 2.5. This figure would give us the instance where a (for instance) $1 billion change in expenditure would lead to a $2.5 billion change in equilibrium real GDP.\n\nLets now take an economy where there are positive taxes (an increase from 0 to 0.2), while the MPC and MPI remain the same:\n\nIf these figures were now substituted into the multiplier formula, the resulting figure would be 1.79. This figure would give us the instance where, again, a $1 billion change in expenditure would now lead to only a $1.79 billion change in equilibrium real GDP.\n\nThis example shows us how the multiplier is lessened by the existence of an automatic stabilizer, and thus helping to lessen the fluctuations in real GDP as a result from changes in expenditure. Not only does this example work with changes in T, it would also work by changing the MPI while holding MPC and T constant as well.\n\nThere is broad consensus among economists that the automatic stabilizers often exist and function in the short term.\n\nAdditionally, imports often tend to decrease in a recession, meaning more of the national income is spent at home rather than abroad. This also helps stabilize the economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "163617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163617", "title": "Chicory", "text": "Chicory\n\nCommon chicory, \"Cichorium intybus\", is a somewhat woody, perennial herbaceous plant of the dandelion family Asteraceae, usually with bright blue flowers, rarely white or pink. Many varieties are cultivated for salad leaves, chicons (blanched buds), or roots (var. \"sativum\"), which are baked, ground, and used as a coffee substitute and food additive. In the 21st century, inulin, an extract from chicory root, has been used in food manufacturing as a sweetener and source of dietary fiber.\n\nChicory is grown as a forage crop for livestock. It lives as a wild plant on roadsides in its native Europe, and is now common in North America, China, and Australia, where it has become widely naturalized. \"Chicory\" is also the common name in the United States for curly endive (\"Cichorium endivia\"); these two closely related species are often confused.\n\nCommon chicory is also known as blue daisy, blue dandelion, blue sailors, blue weed, bunk, coffeeweed, cornflower, hendibeh, horseweed, ragged sailors, succory, wild bachelor's buttons, and wild endive. (Note: \"Cornflower\" is commonly applied to \"Centaurea cyanus\".) Common names for varieties of var. \"foliosum\" include endive, radicchio, radichetta, Belgian endive, French endive, red endive, sugarloaf, and witloof (or witlof).\n\nWhen flowering, chicory has a tough, grooved, and more or less hairy stem, from tall. The leaves are stalked, lanceolate and unlobed. The flower heads are 2 to 4 cm ( to inches) wide, and usually light purple or lavender (see picture) and it has been described as light blue, rarely white or pink. Of the two rows of involucral bracts, the inner is longer and erect, the outer is shorter and spreading. It flowers from July until October. The achenes have no pappus (feathery hairs), but do have toothed scales on top.\n\nRoot chicory (\"Cichorium intybus\" var. \"sativum\") has been cultivated in Europe as a coffee substitute. The roots are baked, roasted, ground, and used as an additive, especially in the Mediterranean region (where the plant is native). As a coffee additive, it is also mixed in Indian filter coffee, and in parts of Southeast Asia, South Africa, and southern United States, particularly in New Orleans. In France a mixture of 60% chicory and 40% coffee is sold as Ricoré. It has been more widely used during economic crises such as the Great Depression in the 1930s and during World War II in Continental Europe. Chicory, with sugar beet and rye, was used as an ingredient of the East German \"Mischkaffee\" (mixed coffee), introduced during the \"East German coffee crisis\" of 1976-79. It is also added to coffee in Spanish, Greek, Turkish, Syrian, Lebanese and Palestinian cuisines.\n\nSome beer brewers use roasted chicory to add flavor to stouts (commonly expected to have a coffee-like flavour). Others have added it to strong blond Belgian-style ales, to augment the hops, making a \"witlofbier\", from the Dutch name for the plant.\n\nWild chicory leaves usually have a bitter taste. Their bitterness is appreciated in certain cuisines, such as in the Ligurian and Apulian regions of Italy and also in the southern part of India. In Ligurian cuisine, wild chicory leaves are an ingredient of \"preboggion\" and in Greek cuisine of \"horta\"; in the Apulian region, wild chicory leaves are combined with fava bean puree in the traditional local dish \"fave e cicorie selvatiche\". In Albania, the leaves are used as a spinach substitute, mainly served simmered and marinated in olive oil, or as ingredient for fillings of \"byrek\".\n\nBy cooking and discarding the water, the bitterness is reduced, after which the chicory leaves may be sautéed with garlic, anchovies, and other ingredients. In this form, the resulting greens might be combined with pasta or accompany meat dishes.\n\nChicory may be cultivated for its leaves, usually eaten raw as salad leaves. Cultivated chicory is generally divided into three types, of which there are many varieties:\n\n\n\nAlthough leaf chicory is often called \"endive\", true endive (\"Cichorium endivia\") is a different species in the genus, distinct from Belgian endive.\n\nAround 1970, it was found that the root contains up to 20% inulin, a polysaccharide similar to starch. Inulin is mainly found in the plant family Asteraceae as a storage carbohydrate (for example Jerusalem artichoke, dahlia, yacon, etc.). It is used as a sweetener in the food industry with a sweetening power 10% that of sucrose and is sometimes added to yogurts as a prebiotic. Inulin is also gaining popularity as a source of soluble dietary fiber and functional food.\n\nChicory root extract is a dietary supplement or food additive produced by mixing dried, ground chicory root with water, and removing the insoluble fraction by filtration and centrifugation. Other methods may be used to remove pigments and sugars. It is used as a source of soluble fiber. Fresh chicory root typically contains, by dry weight, 68% inulin, 14% sucrose, 5% cellulose, 6% protein, 4% ash, and 3% other compounds. Dried chicory root extract contains, by weight, about 98% inulin and 2% other compounds.\nFresh chicory root may contain between 13 and 23% inulin, by total weight.\n\nThe bitter substances are primarily the two sesquiterpene lactones lactucin and lactucopicrin. Other ingredients are aesculetin, aesculin, cichoriin, umbelliferone, scopoletin, 6,7-dihydrocoumarin, and further sesquiterpene lactones and their glycosides.\n\nChicory root contains essential oils similar to those found in plants in the related genus \"Tanacetum\".\n\nIn traditional medicine, chicory has been listed as one of the 38 plants used to prepare Bach flower remedies. According to Cancer Research UK, \"essence therapists believe that using essences can help to increase your mental, emotional and spiritual wellbeing ... Essences are not used to prevent, control, or cure cancer or any other physical condition.\"\n\nChicory is highly digestible for ruminants and has a low fiber concentration. Chicory roots are an \"excellent substitute for oats\" for horses due to their protein and fat content. Chicory contains a low quantity of reduced tannins that may increase protein utilization efficiency in ruminants.\n\nSome tannins reduce intestinal parasites. Dietary chicory may be toxic to internal parasites, with studies of ingesting chicory by farm animals having lower worm burdens, leading to its use as a forage supplement. Although chicory might have originated in France, Italy, and India, much development of chicory for use with livestock has taken place in New Zealand.\n\n\nThe chicory plant is one of the earliest cited in recorded literature. Horace mentions it in reference to his own diet, which he describes as very simple: \"Me pascunt olivae, me cichorea, me malvae\" (\"As for me, olives, endives, and mallows provide sustenance\"). In 1766, Frederick the Great banned the importation of coffee into Prussia, leading to the development of a coffee substitute by Brunswick innkeeper Christian Gottlieb Förster (died 1801), who gained a concession in 1769/70 to manufacture it in Brunswick and Berlin. By 1795, 22 to 24 factories of this type were in Brunswick. Lord Monboddo describes the plant in 1779 as the \"chicoree\", which the French cultivated as a pot herb. In Napoleonic Era France, chicory frequently appeared as an adulterant in coffee, or as a coffee substitute. Chicory was also adopted as a coffee substitute by Confederate soldiers during the American Civil War, and has become common in the United States. It was also used in the United Kingdom during the Second World War, where Camp Coffee, a coffee and chicory essence, has been on sale since 1885.\n\nThe cultivated chicory plant has a history reaching back to ancient Egyptian time. Medieval monks raised the plants and when coffee was introduced to Europe, the Dutch thought that chicory made a lively addition to the bean drink.\n\nIn the United States, chicory root has long been used as a substitute for coffee in prisons. By the 1840s, the port of New Orleans was the second-largest importer of coffee (after New York). Louisianans began to add chicory root to their coffee when Union naval blockades during the American Civil War cut off the port of New Orleans, thereby creating a long-standing tradition.\n\nA common meal in Rome,\" puntarelle\", is made with chicory sprouts. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization reports that chicory is a native plant of western Asia, North Africa, and Europe.\n\nChicory is also mentioned in certain silk-growing texts. The primary caretaker of the silkworms, the \"silkworm mother\", should not eat or even touch it.\n\nThe chicory flower is often seen as inspiration for the Romantic concept of the Blue Flower (e.g. in German language \"Blauwarte\" ≈ blue lookout by the wayside). It could open locked doors, according to European folklore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1416594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416594", "title": "Clocolan", "text": "Clocolan\n\nClocolan, established in 1906, is a small town in the Free State Province of South Africa. The Basotho called the place Hlohlolwane (Hlohla-o-lwane, \"get up and fight\"). New inhabitants mispronounced the name and called it Clocolan.\n\nThe first to inhabit the area were the ancient Kwena people from Botswana. Soon the Basotho followed. The town developed as surrounding communities needed a school, a church and business facilities . The Bakwena, a Sotho tribe, gave Clocolan its name in 1800. The Bakwena Chief Motebang lived in the Northern part of Clocolan, in an area known as ‘Betang’, todaya private farm. Motebang invited the neighbouring Baphuthi Zulu clan to assist his people stacking corn baskets after a successful harvest. An argument erupted when one Bakwenaelder charged at the Baphuti's. The argument brought forth the slogan ‘Hlohla-u-loane’ or ‘Hlohloloane’, that translates as “Get/stand up and fight” and this may explain how the town earned its name. Settlers in the early 1800s drove the Basotho out of town, forming a township still known as Hlolholoane.\n\nThe town is in the Thabo Mofutsanyana region of the Free State Province in South Africa. It is located along the Maloti route main road, 20 kilometers from the Caledon river, alongside the Lesotho border. Due to its location, the town trades with Lesotho, Southern parts of the Free State, Kwa-Zulu Natal and the Cape.\n\nClocolan is situated along the R26 about 34km from Ficksburg to the northeast and just under 70km from Maseru to the south over the Lesotho border. The name is derived from the Hlohlolwane mountain which stands 1 820km above sea level. Hlohlolwane means “stand-up-and-fight” which refers to an altercation between the Koena tribe and Baphuthini over a maize harvest. The town was established in 1906 on the farms of Reinzi and Herold. The town grew out of the need for schools, churches and business services for the surrounding farming community. It obtained municipal status on 18 July 1910. The eastern Free State cherry industry originated in the Clocolan district where the first trees were planted by Henry Pickstone in 1904 on the farm Platkop. Besides cherry orchards, farming in the area predominantly consists of asparagus, wheat, maize, potatoes and cattle. Clocolan has one industrial area, situated in the eastern side of the town close to the railway line.\n\nThe area is known for the cultivation of wheat, maize, cherries, large cattle and sheep herds.\n\nTourists can visit the following places:\nThe Vintage Tractor and Engine Fair is an annual fair that has taken place in Clocolan since 1989. The fair started with only 29 tractors and has grown in recent years to 153 . Tractors are paraded through the small farming community. Some of its attractions are a 1902 threshold machine, the Annual National Ploughing Championships and a hand plowing with magnificent Nguni bulls.\n\nThe name is used by recording artist clocolan—South African-born composer Emlyn Ellis Addison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43782700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43782700", "title": "Corporate Affairs Commission", "text": "Corporate Affairs Commission\n\nCorporate Affairs Commission is a body of the Nigerian Government responsible for the regulation and management of companies in Nigeria. It was introduced in 1990 with the passing of the Companies and Allied Matters Act. It is headed by a Chairman and closely assisted by the Registrar General/ CEO. The current chairman is Otunba Funso Lawal.\n\nOther prominent offices of the board of CAC includes Manufacturer Association of Nigeria, Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), Nigerian Bar Association, Securities and Exchange Commission, Federal Ministry of Trade and Investment, Nigerian Association of Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture, Federal Ministry of Justice and Federal Ministry of Finance. All these government agencies and parastatals send top representatives on the CAC board.\n\n"}
{"id": "98051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98051", "title": "Dries van Agt", "text": "Dries van Agt\n\nAndreas Antonius Maria \"Dries\" van Agt (; born 2 February 1931) is a retired Dutch politician, judge, diplomat and activist who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 19 December 1977 until 4 November 1982.\n\nA jurist by occupation, Van Agt worked as a lawyer for the law firm Van der Putt, Nijst, Van Sandick en Depla from 1956 until 1958 when he became a civil servant working for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and the Ministry of Justice until 1968. Van Agt became a professor of criminal procedure at the Radboud University Nijmegen in 1968. In 1971 he was appointed as a judge at the court of Arnhem. After the election of 1971, he was asked by the Catholic People's Party (KVP) to become Minister of Justice in the First Biesheuvel cabinet. Van Agt accepted and resigned as a professor and judge the same day he took office as the new Minister of Justice on 6 July 1971. Van Agt remained Minister of Justice in the Den Uyl cabinet following the election of 1972 and also became Deputy Prime Minister on 11 May 1973. On 10 December 1976 Van Agt was selected as the first Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal and became the \"lijsttrekker\" (top candidate) for the election of 1977. He resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice to become the first parliamentary leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal in the House of Representatives and a Member of the House of Representatives taking office on 8 June 1977. Following the election the Christian Democratic Appeal became the second largest party in the House of Representatives.\n\nAfter a failed cabinet formation with the Labour Party, Van Agt struck a deal with the Leader of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy Hans Wiegel that resulted in the formation of the First Van Agt cabinet, also known as Van Agt–Wiegel cabinet, with Van Agt becoming Prime Minister of the Netherlands taking office on 19 December 1977. With the following election of 1981, Van Agt again as \"lijsttrekker\" lost one seat and a coalition formation with the Labour Party and the Democrats 66 (D66) resulted in the second Van Agt cabinet. On 29 May 1982 the Second Van Agt cabinet collapsed after the Labour Party retracted their support. A third cabinet was formed with Van Agt also serving as Minister of Foreign Affairs; the Third Van Agt cabinet stayed in office until the election of 1982. Van Agt again as \"lijsttrekker\" lost three seats and the Christian Democratic Appeal became the second largest party. A cabinet formation with the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) was formed but Van Agt unexpectedly announced his retirement from national politics and stood down as Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal on 25 October 1982. Van Agt remained Prime Minister of the Netherlands until the First Lubbers cabinet was installed on 4 November 1982.\n\nAfter his premiership, Van Agt remained in active politics and became the Queen's Commissioner of North Brabant taking office on 1 June 1983. On 22 April 1987 Van Agt resigned as Queen's Commissioner because of criticism on his cooperation with the States-Provincial. Van Agt he became a diplomat for the European Communities and served as Ambassador of the European Union to Japan from 1 April 1987 until 1 January 1990 when he became Ambassador of the European Union to the United States serving until 1 April 1995 when he retired from politics at the age of sixty-four. Following the end of his active political career, Van Agt occupied numerous seats on supervisory boards on international non-governmental organizations (InterAction Council, Green Cross International and the Edmund Burke Foundation). Van Agt served as a visiting professor of international relations at the Ritsumeikan University, the United Nations University and the Kwansei Gakuin University from 1995 until 2004.\n\nVan Agt is known for his abilities as a negotiator and debater. During his premiership, his cabinets were responsible for reforming the public sector and civil service and the struggle with the recession in the 1980s. He holds the distinction of being the first Christian Democratic Appeal Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Van Agt also has been active as an anti-war and human rights activist and as an advocate in promoting the Two-state solution for the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. Van Agt continues to comment on political affairs as a statesman. With the death of Piet de Jong in July 2016, he became the oldest living former Dutch Prime Minister.\n\nAndreas Antonius Maria van Agt was born on 2 February 1931 in Geldrop in the Netherlands Province of North Brabant in a Roman Catholic family. After receiving his diploma Gymnasium-A at the Augustinianum he studied at the Catholic University of Nijmegen, where he received his Doctorate in Law in 1955. After graduating, he practiced law in Eindhoven until 1957, after which he worked in the office of legal and business affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries until 1962. From 1962 to 1968, he worked for the Ministry of Justice.\n\nVan Agt entered politics as a member of the Catholic People's Party, which merged with the other two major Christian Democratic parties in 1980 to form the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). From 1968 to 1971, Van Agt was Professor of Criminal Law at the Catholic University of Nijmegen. From 1971 to 1973, he was Minister of Justice in the government of Barend Biesheuvel. He caused outrage when he tried to pardon the last three Nazi war criminals still in Dutch prisons in 1972. From 1973 to 1977 he was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice in the government of Joop den Uyl.\n\nIn 1976, Van Agt was elected the first Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal, then still a federation of the three religious parties Christian Historical Union, Catholic People's Party and Anti-Revolutionary Party, which first ran in 1977 with a united list (the merger followed in 1980). With Van Agt as top candidate, the Christian Democratic Appeal reversed in 1977 years of decline to return to power.\n\nIn the parliamentary elections of May 1977 the Labour Party obtained their largest number of seats, so a second Den Uyl coalition looked likely. However, the tension between the Catholic People's Party and the Labour Party in the last reign, combined with the fact that a coalition between Christian Democratic Appeal and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy was possible, the talks failed after a period of seven months. Eventually Van Agt negotiated a deal with Hans Wiegel, leader of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy. From 19 December 1977 to 11 September 1981 Van Agt was Prime Minister of the Netherlands and Minister of General Affairs in the Cabinet Van Agt I.\n\nIn 1981, the Christian Democratic Appeal, People's Party for Freedom and Democracy and Labour Party lost parliamentary seats, so a continuation of a Christian Democratic Appeal-People's Party for Freedom and Democracy coalition was not possible. Van Agt, leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal, was forced to go in coalition with the Labour Party. Also Democrats 66 (which, under Jan Terlouw gained a significant number of seats) participated in the coalition talks, after 3 months of difficult negotiations that resulted in the Cabinet Van Agt II (11 September 1981 – 29 May 1982). In this composition Van Agt worked with Joop den Uyl again as Den Uyl was made Deputy Prime Minister and \"super minister\" of Social Affairs and Employment. The characterological and political differences led to several divisions, and in May 1982 the government fell.\n\nThe personal strife between Van Agt and Den Uyl were so deteriorated that when Den Uyl died from a brain tumor in 1987, Van Agt was not invited to the memorial by the family. Den Uyl's wife Liesbeth argued that Van Agt had prevented the second Den Uyl coalition from forming in 1977.\n\nThe caretaker government went through as a minority cabinet, with only ministers from the parties Christian Democratic Appeal and Democrats 66, in the Cabinet Van Agt III. For replacing the six Labour Party ministers, five new Christian Democratic Appeal and Democrats 66 ministers were in place, while van Agt in the cabinet, as well as being Prime Minister was also Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\nNew parliamentary elections were organized for September 1982. Although Van Agt, by this point was worn out, he was persuaded again to be Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal but shortly after the election he withdrew as a candidate for prime minister and was succeeded by Ruud Lubbers.\n\nwhen he was appointed as the Queen's Commissioner of the province North Brabant.\n\nDries van Agt served as Ambassador of the European Community to Japan from 1987 to 1990 and to the United States from 1990 to 1995. From 1995 to 1996, he was a Visiting Professor of International Relations at the University of Kyoto.\n\nHe is currently Prime Counsellor for the International Forum for Justice and Peace, a foundation under Dutch law, registered at the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam. Chaired by retired international businessman Ben Smoes, they are currently focused on justice and peace in regard to the Israel/Palestine conflict\n\nVan Agt lectured in May 2006 in Cairo at the invitation of the Egyptian electronic magazine Arab-West Report about great changes in the cultural climate of north-western Europe in the past decades, becoming more hostile to religion, including Islam. Muslims, he argued, need to understand those changes in order to be able to respond better to European criticism on Islam and the Muslim world.\n\nVan Agt has also spoken against the Council of State in Egypt for continuous delay in granting the Center for Arab-West Understanding (CAWU) the NGO status. He met with prominent figures in Egypt to persuade them to do so. The Egyptian Council of State, after van Agt's visit to Cairo in 2006, ruled on 18 February 2007 that the Center should be recognized as an NGO under Egyptian law, ending its three-year struggle to obtain this status. Egypt is known for its reluctance in granting NGO status in order to discourage political participation. Cornelis Hulsman, a Dutch sociologist, the editor-in-chief of Arab-West Report, and the head of CAWU, stated that van Agt's effort significantly impacted the realization of their goals, which usually requires a lengthy amount of time and scrutiny in its political purposes.\n\nFor some years he has taken an outspoken stance regarding the Middle East, resulting in a fierce criticism of the policies undertaken by the government of Israel with regard to the Palestinians. When in office, van Agt was a staunch supporter of Israel, but after he stepped down in 1982 he changed his mind. According to his own words an important turning point was a visit at the late nineties at Bethlehem University on the Israeli-occupied West Bank. He has accused Israel of \"state terrorism\" and turning the Palestinian Authority territories into \"bantustans\". In 2012, Van Agt said that Jews should have a state in Germany instead of Israel. In September 2016, in reference to the visit of Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netenyahu to the Netherlands, van Agt argued that the ongoing Israeli occupation of the Palestinian territories and the building of settlements there constituted a war crime under the Rome Statute and suggested that Netenyahu should have been sent to the International Criminal Court.\n\nVan Agt is known for his use of archaic language and complicated phrasing, as well as for his love for cycling. He married his wife Eugenie Krekelberg in 1958, and they've had three children and seven grandchildren. In 2012, he joined the Advisory Board of the International Museum for Family History.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31242817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31242817", "title": "Edelstam Prize", "text": "Edelstam Prize\n\nThe Edelstam Prize, named after Harald Edelstam, is awarded annually by the Harald Edelstam Foundation. \nThe Edelstam Prize is awarded for outstanding contributions and exceptional courage in standing up for one’s beliefs in the defense of Human Rights. The Edelstam Prize is named after, and awarded in memory of, the Swedish diplomat and ambassador Harald Edelstam (1913-1989). Harald Edelstam distinguished himself as diplomat by his professional competence, his bravery and his civic courage in the fight for Human Rights. He was an early proponent and symbol of what is today known as \"Responsibility to Protect\", and his memorable acts contributed to saving more than a thousand lives.\n\nThe winner of the Edelstam Prize can be a private person or a person who serves in government, international or national organisations. The winner shall be an individual who has acted in Ambassador Harald Edelstam’s spirit in a country/countries where Human Rights, according to international law, have been violated.\n\nThe laureate must have shown outstanding capabilities in analysing and handling complex situations and in finding ways, even unconventional and creative ones, to defend Human Rights. The candidate has, presumably in a complex situation, been able to take a decisive role in helping threatened people or directly saving human lives. Civic courage is a central parameter in the selection of the successful candidate.\n\nAn international jury selects the winners from a list of nominated candidates. The jury is chaired by Harald Edelstam's granddaughter Caroline Edelstam, co-founder of the Edelstam Foundation. The other members are\n\nThe Nomination Committee consists of \n\nThe Edelstam Prize Jury’s motivation to give Mrs. Bahareh Hedayat the Edelstam Prize is: \"Mrs. Bahareh Hedayat has through her outstanding courage and commitment to justice actively worked against Human Rights violations in Iran. In spite of serious warnings and threats from the regime’s security and intelligence forces, she has repeatedly risked her own life and freedom when defending Human Rights. She has been arrested upon several occasions, and is imprisoned right now for these reasons. The Harald Edelstam Foundation considers her a prisoner of conscience, and in consequence respectfully asks the authorities of the Republic of Iran to set her free.\"\n\nThe Edelstam Prize Jury’s motivation to give Mr. Benjamin Manuel Jerónimo the Edelstam Prize is: \"Benjamín Manuel Jerónimo is a Mayan from Guatemala. Mayan communities, in spite of being the majority of the population, have been exploited, discriminated against, and victimized in their own homeland for centuries. The worst period came between 1960 and 1996: egregious abuses of human rights were perpetrated in Guatemala during the internal armed conflict. According to the CEH (UN backed Truth Commission) 200,000 civilians were murdered and 50,000 were forcibly disappeared. Most of them, 83% (93% of the abuses caused by the State), were defenseless indigenous Mayans. After the signature of the Peace Agreements, nobody was made accountable for these heinous crimes.\nBenjamín considered that those responsible for the crimes should be brought to justice. It was not an easy task, since discrimination, threats, retaliations and violence persist in Guatemala, and the rate of violent deaths today is double that during the war. Benjamín represents the voice of the victims; has courageous and tirelessly worked for decades in defense of human rights, truth and justice for the indigenous communities in his country, despite repeated threats against his life. His endeavor and commitment are an example and reminder every day to the international community than most of the perpetrators in Guatemala remain unpunished.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7992476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7992476", "title": "El Caguán DMZ", "text": "El Caguán DMZ\n\nThe El Caguán DMZ () was a demilitarized zone of 42,000 km² in southern Colombia authorized by the government of President Andrés Pastrana to negotiate a peace process with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC-EP). It existed for three years, from 1999 until 2002.\n\nOn October 8, 1998, then presidential candidate Andrés Pastrana agreed with FARC commanders to create a demilitarized zone in the region of El Caguán river basin, a jungle region in south central Colombia made up by the municipalities of Vista Hermosa, La Macarena, La Uribe and Mesetas in Meta Department, and San Vicente del Caguán in Caquetá Department to negotiate a possible peace process.\n\nEl Caguán\n"}
{"id": "11185468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11185468", "title": "El Comité-MINP", "text": "El Comité-MINP\n\nEl Comité, or MINP, was a 1960s militant organization that sought independence for Puerto Rico from the United States. Together with several other organizations, it formed the nucleus of the Movimiento Pro-Independencia that formed at a time when the United States was coming under increasing international criticism for holding onto one of the world's last colonies. \n\nEl Comité was born on the West Side of Manhattan around 1970. It slowly began to spread to other cities, originally as a militant, community-based organization protesting so-called urban renewal programs that were replacing low income housing with high-rise developments El Comité filled the vacuum left by the decline of the Young Lords. In 1975 El Comite was renamed MINP, Movimiento para la Independencia Nacional Puertorriqueña (Movement for Puerto Rican National Independence). \n\nEl Comité sought to be a multi-issue organization, offering a comprehensive program for the community. Besides its community roles, the group collaborated with a student sector, the Puerto Rican Student Union (PRSU), and a workers organization, and initiated a process that eventually led to the formation of the Latin Women's Collective. Through its publication \"Unidad Latina\", it addressed the gamut of issues affecting the community, linking local issues to international forces.\n"}
{"id": "29783528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29783528", "title": "Eleanor Kasrils", "text": "Eleanor Kasrils\n\nEleanor Kasrils (b. March 1936, Kilmarnock - d. 2009) was a Scottish-South African anti-apartheid activist who created ANC cells in Scotland, and opposed the activities of the UK government in Africa in the 1980s.\n\nEleanor and her husband Ronnie Kasrils were persuaded to campaign against apartheid in the aftermath of the Sharpeville massacre in 1960.\n\nUpon her death Nelson Mandela paid tribute to her work and referred to her as a “genteel and elegant Scottish woman”.\n"}
{"id": "32811139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32811139", "title": "Facilitation board (economics)", "text": "Facilitation board (economics)\n\nA facilitation board is a proposed economic institution conceived by economists Michael Albert and Robin Hahnel which act in systems of economic democracy as agencies that facilitate information exchange and processing for collective consumption proposals and for large-scale investment projects, workers requests for changing places of employment, and individuals and families seeking to find membership in living units and neighborhoods, among other functions.\n\nThe proposed boards form part of the process of \"participatory planning\" within Albert and Hahnel's economic system of participatory economics and Participism. If adopted, they would serve to manage and coordinate proposals by workers and consumers in place of a central state or markets.\n\nIteration Facilitation Boards (IFBs) act as management bodies in participatory economics and perhaps other similar systems for local consumer and worker councils and are the mechanism via which economic allocation is decided upon and ultimately implemented in an economy without a state or markets; although the kind of participatory planning found in parecon could also possibly be combined with an artificial market (arket) for certain commercial goods and services.\n\nDemocratic participatory planning is an economic practice used to determine the production, consumption, and allocation of resources, goods, and services in a given economy and recommended as a solution to the problems seen in both statist central planning within state-socialism and privatist markets within capitalism. Facilitation boards are used to guide this process effectively.\n\nThrough participatory planning, workers and consumers decide democratically which and how many goods to produce, decide construction plans, determine how vital resources are managed and all other economic issues at various levels through a system of confederated \"nested councils\" or assemblies with local economic issues being determined at the local level, and administrative issues on a wider level being determined by city, regional, provincial, and country councils with delegates sent successively to each level to communicate the decisions made by the nested council below them.\n\nLocal decisions like the construction of a playground might be made in the ward or city council, probably interacting with both city and countrywide councils through rotating delegates. Countrywide decisions, like the construction of a high-speed mass transportation system, would be discussed by the country council, possibly interacting with a city council in the city where the materials are produced, or countrywide or international councils.\n\nDuring an event known as a planning procedure, which could be an annual, bi-annual or quarterly event, facilitation boards first announce a set of indicative prices which workers and consumers use, individually and through their councils at each level, when deciding on their production and consumption proposals. Proposals could be done either collectively through a local consumer council, or individually on a computer; or any combination of the two. When the proposals are all in, the IFBs aggregate all the production and consumption proposals for the different categories of goods and services – inputs into all the production processes as well as consumer goods – to see if proposed supply and demand are equal. If they are not equal for every good and service the IFB revises the set of indicative prices and the process is repeated through successive rounds until a consistent set of production and consumption proposals is arrived at.\n\nThe facilitation board would work with the citizen(s) that originated the proposal to work it into a manageable proposition. Around the time of the planning procedure, interested parties within the region affected by the collective consumption proposal would be able to view the collective consumption proposals and vote them up or down. This could be done at large meetings or via computer. At the same time, worker's councils and producers councils would respond with production proposals outlining the outputs they propose to produce and the inputs they believe are required to produce them. Individual workers would indicate their proposed hours of work, and workers will be able to propose upgrades and innovations for their workplace, aided by a facilitation board.\n\nFacilitation boards would then calculate excess proposed supply and demand based on the proposals, adjusting the indicative price for each final good or service according to its impact on society and the environment so that the social opportunity cost is reflected. Using the new indicative prices, consumer and workers' councils would revise and resubmit their proposals, as some goods would be more expensive, and others less expensive. Proposals deemed excessive by other parties would become very expensive, creating a disincentive to pursue them.\n\nIterations would continue according to some predefined method which is likely to converge within an acceptable time delay. For instance, proposals would only be changeable by a minimum percentage for the second round, and a lesser percentage for the third round, and so on, forcing convergence of a feasible plan.\n\nThe facilitation boards then implement these final proposals by setting new prices and organizing production plans. These prices would represent the estimated marginal social opportunity cost for all goods and services. During the planning procedure, not only do the prices reflect proposed supply and demand, but also the social and ecological cost of producing the good. For instance a product that produces pollution in its manufacture, or is especially dangerous for workers to produce, would have its price automatically inflated to discourage excess consumption. Thus\n\nIn the event of unforeseen circumstances occurring in between planning procedures, the IFBs would adjust prices or production quotas accordingly within established guidelines.\n\nThe facilitation boards should function according to a maximum level of radical transparency and only have very limited powers of mediation, subject to the discretion of the participating councils. The real decisions regarding the formulation and implementation of the plan are to be made in the consumers' and producers' councils.\n\nFacilitation board members would do very important economic work running the economy, and thus one might think they would gradually take over in any system that would adopt them. Its proponents argue that this could be prevented by requiring board members never to handle proposals that pertain to their own region and making any IFB meeting transparent to the public. Political economist Pat Devine has suggested that if implemented in a society with advanced technology, the IFB could itself merely be a highly advanced computer system.\n\nIt has been debated whether systems using only participatory planning would be able to change prices as demand changes and other factors modify the results of the participatory planning procedure. Albert and Hahnel have argued that this would be done efficiently. Facilitation boards could continually modify prices as time goes on, finding reasons for production shortfalls, production overruns, changes in demand, environmental disasters, etc. and the facilitation boards could adjust prices accordingly. One proposed way to do this would be to adjust prices within council guidelines on a monthly basis as events unfold.\n\nHahnel and Albert note that markets themselves hardly adjust prices instantaneously and contend that an economy using universal participatory planning should be able to do just as well, or better. Although not recommended by either Albert or Hahnel, participatory planning could potentially be combined with an artificial market for microeconomic matters so as to take some of the potential strain off consumers and make the planning procedure less complex by retaining it exclusively for macroeconomic matters. Facilitation boards could then be used to regulate the artificial market as well as helping implement macro economic decisions.\n\nAn institution with the functions of a facilitation board appears as the Resource Review Board in Chris Carlsson's post-revolutionary San Francisco in the novel \"After the Deluge\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3340206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3340206", "title": "Fernwood Publishing", "text": "Fernwood Publishing\n\nFernwood Publishing is an independent Canadian publisher that publishes non-fiction books dealing with social justice and issues of social, political and economic importance.\n\nFernwood was founded in 1991 in Halifax, Nova Scotia, publishing its first books in the spring of 1992. The Halifax office was moved to Black Point, Nova Scotia and, in 1994, a second office was opened in Winnipeg, Manitoba. In eighteen seasons, Fernwood has published over 300 titles. In 2006, Fernwood acquired Roseway Publishing, which is now their fiction imprint.\n\nFernwood offers an alternative Canadian perspective on issues that many major book publishers do not. Founder and co-publisher Errol Sharpe has been quoted as saying, \"In an era when the restructuring of capitalism seems to be threatening to erase many of the gains that have been made by the oppressed in society, we think that our books have a part to play in bucking the trend.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22912862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22912862", "title": "GayLib", "text": "GayLib\n\nGayLib is an LGBT conservative and centre-right political faction formerly affiliated with the French political party Union for a Popular Movement from its inception in 2002 to 2013. Its president is Emmanuel Blanc.\n\nThe creation of GayLib was supported by Jean-Pierre Raffarin, Philippe Douste-Blazy, Alain Juppé, and François Baroin. In 2002, its members took part in the pride parade in Paris for the first time.\n\nSince 2007, they have been waylaid by The Pink Panthers, Act Up and AIDES because of the UMP's repudiation of same-sex marriage. However, GayLib says that the UMP helped toughen up hate-crime laws, improved the PACS, created the HALDE, and had a foreign-policy stance against homosexuality crimilazation through Rama Yade's appeal to the United Nations.\n\nIn January 2013, it left the UMP because of the party’s opposition to same-sex marriage. It is currently seeking to affiliate with the Union of Democrats and Independents, whose president, Jean-Louis Borloo, endorses same-sex marriage.\n\nHomosexualités et Socialisme - The Socialist Party equivalent\n\n"}
{"id": "42950839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42950839", "title": "Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone", "text": "Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone\n\nThe Global Database of Events, Language, and Tone (GDELT), created by Kalev Leetaru of Yahoo! and Georgetown University, along with Philip Schrodt and others, describes itself as \"an initiative to construct a catalog of human societal-scale behavior and beliefs across all countries of the world, connecting every person, organization, location, count, theme, news source, and event across the planet into a single massive network that captures what's happening around the world, what its context is and who's involved, and how the world is feeling about it, every single day.\" Early explorations leading up to the creation of GDELT were described by co-creator Philip Schrodt in a conference paper in January 2011. The dataset is available on Google Cloud Platform.\n\nGDELT includes data from 1979 to the present. The data is available as zip files in tab-separated value format using a CSV extension for easy import into Microsoft Excel or similar spreadsheet software. Data from 1979 to 2005 is available in the form of one zip file per year, with the file size gradually increased from 14.3 MB in 1979 to 125.9 MB in 2005, reflecting the increase in the number of news media and the frequency and comprehensiveness of event recording. Data files from January 2006 to March 2013 are available at monthly granularity, with the zipped file size rising from 11 MB in January 2006 to 103.2 MB in March 2013. Data files from April 1, 2013 onward are available at a daily granularity. The data file for each date is made available by 6 AM Eastern Standard Time the next day. As of June 2014, the size of the daily zipped file is about 5-12 MB. The data files use Conflict and Mediation Event Observations (CAMEO) coding for recording events.\n\nIn a blog post for \"Foreign Policy\", co-creator Kalev Leetaru attempted to use GDELT data to answer the question of whether the Arab Spring sparked protests worldwide, using the quotient of the number of protest-related events to the total number of events recorded as a measure of \"protest intensity\" for which the time trend was then studied. Political scientist and data science/forecasting expert Jay Ulfelder critiqued the post on his personal blog, saying that Leetaru's normalization method may not have adequately accounted for the change in the nature and composition of media coverage.\n\nThe dataset is also available on Google Cloud Platform and can be accessed using Google BigQuery.\n\nGDELT has been cited and used in a number of academic studies, such as a study of visual and predictive analytics of Singapore news (along with Wikipedia and the Straits Times Index) and a study of political conflict.\n\nThe challenge problem at the 2014 International Social Computing, Behavioral Modeling and Prediction Conference (SBP) asked participants to explore GDELT and apply it to the analysis of social networks, behavior, and prediction.\n\nGDELT has been covered on the website of the Center for Data Innovation as well as the GIS Lounge. It has also been discussed and critiqued on blogs about political violence and crisis prediction. The dataset has been cited and critiqued repeatedly in \"Foreign Policy\", including in discussions of political events in Syria, the Arab Spring, and Nigeria. It has also been cited in \"New Scientist\", on the FiveThirtyEight website and Andrew Sullivan's blog.\n\nThe Predictive Heuristics blog and other blogs have compared GDELT with the Integrated Conflict Early Warning System (ICEWS). Alex Hanna blogged about her experiment assessing GDELT with handcoded data by comparing it with the Dynamics of Collective Action dataset.\n\nIn May 2014, the Google Cloud Platform blog announced that the entire GDELT dataset would be available as a public dataset in Google BigQuery.\n\n"}
{"id": "25184196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25184196", "title": "Global Warming Policy Foundation", "text": "Global Warming Policy Foundation\n\nThe Global Warming Policy Foundation (GWPF) is a climate change denial lobby group in the United Kingdom, whose stated aims are to challenge \"extremely damaging and harmful policies\" envisaged by governments to mitigate anthropogenic global warming. While their position is that the science of global warming or climate change is \"not yet settled,\" the GWPF claims that its membership comes from a broad spectrum ranging from \"the IPCC position through agnosticism to outright scepticism.\" The GWPF as well as some of its prominent members have been characterized as promoting climate change denial.\n\nIn 2014, when the Charity Commission ruled that the GWPF had breached rules on impartiality, a non-charitable organisation called the \"Global Warming Policy Forum\" or \"GWPF\" was created as a wholly owned subsidiary, to do lobbying that a charity could not. \nThe GWPF website carries an array of articles \"sceptical\" of scientific findings of anthropogenic global warming and its impacts.\n\nThe foundation was established in November 2009, shortly after the start of the Climatic Research Unit email controversy, with its headquarters in a room at the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, subsequently moved to 55 Tufton Street, London SW1P 3QL. Its director is Benny Peiser, an expert on the social and economic aspects of physical exercise, and it is chaired by former Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson. GWPF states that it is \"deeply concerned about the costs and other implications of many of the policies currently being advocated\" to address climate change and that it aims to \"bring reason, integrity and balance to a debate that has become seriously unbalanced, irrationally alarmist, and all too often depressingly intolerant\".\n\nThe GWPF's first act was to call for a high-level, independent inquiry into the hacked e-mails from the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit. A spokesman for the Met Office, a government agency which works with the Climate Research Unit in providing global temperature information, dismissed this call. \"If you look at the emails, there isn't any evidence that the data was falsified and there's no evidence that climate change is a hoax. It's a shame that some of the sceptics have had to take this rather shallow attempt to discredit robust science undertaken by some of the world's most respected scientists. The bottom line is that temperatures continue to rise and humans are responsible for it. We have every confidence in the science and the various datasets we use. The peer-review process is as robust as it could possibly be.\"\n\nLawson suggested that the e-mails from the University of East Anglia \"called into question\" the integrity of the scientific evidence. Subsequent investigations did not support this view. GWPF Director Benny Peiser said that the organisation did not doubt the science and wasn’t going to discuss it, but want an open, frank debate about what policies should be adopted.\n\nBecause it is registered as a charity, the GWPF is not legally required to report its sources of funding, and Peiser has declined to reveal its funding sources, citing privacy concerns. Peiser said GWPF does not receive funding \"from people with links to energy companies or from the companies themselves.\" The foundation has rejected freedom of information (FoI) requests to disclose its funding sources on at least four different occasions. The judge ruling on the latest FoI request, Alison McKenna, said that the GWPF was not sufficiently influential to merit forcing them to disclose the source of the £50,000 that was originally provided to establish the organization.\n\nBob Ward, the policy and communications director at the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics, commented:\n\nAccording to a press release on the organization's website, GWPF \"is funded entirely by voluntary donations from a number of private individuals and charitable trusts. In order to make clear its complete independence, it does not accept gifts from either energy companies or anyone with a significant interest in an energy company.\" Annual membership contributions are \"a minimum of £100\". In accounts filed at the beginning of 2011 with the Charities Commission and at Companies House, it was revealed that only £8,168 of the £503,302 the Foundation received as income, from its founding in November 2009 until the end of July 2010, came from membership contributions. In response to the accounts, Bob Ward commented that \"Its income suggests that it only has about 80 members, which means that it is a fringe group promoting the interests of a very small number of politically motivated campaigners.\" Similarly, based on membership fees reported for the year ending 31 July 2012, it appears that GWPF had no more than 120 members at that time.\n\nIn March 2012, \"The Guardian\" revealed that it had uncovered emails in which Michael Hintze, founder of the hedge fund CQS and a major donor to the UK Conservative Party, disclosed having donated to GWPF; the previous October, Hintze had been at the center of a funding scandal that led to the resignation of then-Secretary of State for Defence Liam Fox and the dismissal of Hintze's then-charity adviser, Oliver Hylton.\n\nChris Huhne, former UK Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change attacked Lord Lawson's influential climate sceptic think-tank.\n\nIn June 2013 Bob Ward filed a formal complaint to the Charity Commission, alleging that the GWPF had \"persistently disseminated inaccurate and misleading information about climate change as part of its campaign against climate policies in the UK and overseas\", and that this was an abuse of their charitable status.\n\nIn 2014 the Charity Commission ruled that the GWPF had breached rules on impartiality in its climate change coverage, blurred fact and comment and demonstrated a clear bias. In response, the GWPF agreed to establish a non-charitable organisation to do the lobbying, alongside the existing organisation, to be called the \"Global Warming Policy Forum\" or \"GWPF\". The GWP Forum is a wholly owned subsidiary of the GWP Foundation.\n\nWhen the GWPF's website was launched in November 2009, a graph used in the logo graphic on each page of the website of '21st Century global mean temperatures' showed a slow decline over the selected period from 2001 to 2008. Hannah Devlin of \"The Times\" found an error for 2003 and noted that if the period from 2000 to 2009 had been chosen, then a rise in temperature would have been shown rather than a fall. Bob Ward said that the graph was contrary to the true measurements, and that by leaving out the temperature trend during the 20th century, the graph obscured the fact that 8 of the 10 hottest years on record have occurred this century. The GWPF blamed a \"small error by our graphic designer\" for the mistake which would now be changed, but said that starting the graph earlier would be equally arbitrary.\n\nIn April 2015 the GWP Foundation announced it was \"launching a major inquiry into the integrity of the official global surface temperature records\", under the chairmanship of Terence Kealey, a member of their advisory council. Submissions were invited, all of which would be published. In July 2015 the review announced that it had decided that its principal output will be peer-reviewed papers rather than a report. As of February 2017, the project's website lists no submissions.\n\nIn May 2014, the GWPF listed Benny Peiser, a social anthropologist, as the director, and a board of trustees consisting of Lord Lawson (Chairman), Lord Donoughue, Lord Fellowes, Peter R. Forster (the Bishop of Chester), Martin Jacomb, Baroness Nicholson, Sir James Spooner and Lord Turnbull.\n\nThe academic advisory council consists of David Henderson, Samuel Brittan, Ian Byatt, Robert M. Carter, Vincent Courtillot, Freeman Dyson, Christian Gerondeau, Indur M. Goklany, William Happer, Terence Kealey, Anthony Kelly, Deepak Lal, Richard Lindzen, Ross McKitrick, Robert O. Mendelsohn, Alan Peacock, Ian Plimer, Paul Reiter, Matt Ridley, Alan Rudge, Nir Shaviv, Philip Stott, Henrik Svensmark, Richard Tol, and David Whitehouse. In 2016, Christopher Essex replaced Ross McKitrick as chair.\n\nAndrew William Montford has been appointed to run an inquiry into the three British Climategate-inquiries for the \"Global Warming Policy Foundation\". His report \"The Climategate Inquiries\" was published in September 2010, and is sharply critical of the previous inquiries.\n\nOne of the Foundation's trustees, Graham Stringer MP, a Labour party politician, sits on the House of Commons' Science and Technology Committee, a Parliamentary select committee which scrutinises government actions in relation to topics including climate change.\n\nDavid Aaronovitch noted the GWPF's launch in \"The Times\", writing \"Lord Lawson’s acceptance of the science turns out, on close scrutiny, to be considerably less than half-hearted. Thus he speaks of 'the (present) majority scientific view', hinting rather slyly at the near possibility of a future, entirely different scientific view. (...) 'Sceptic' (...) is simply a misnomer. People such as Lord Lawson are not sceptical, for if one major peer-reviewed piece of scientific research were ever to be published casting doubt on climate change theory, you just know they’d have it up in neon at Piccadilly Circus. They are only sceptical about what they don’t want to be true.\"\n\n\"The Guardian\" quoted Bob Ward as saying \"some of those names are straight from the Who's Who of current climate change sceptics ... It's just going to be a way of pumping material into the debate that hasn't been through scrutiny\". \"The Guardian\" article cast doubt on the idea that an upsurge in scepticism was underway, noting that \"in (the US) Congress, even the most determined opponents of climate change legislation now frame their arguments in economic terms rather than on the science\".\n\nFred Pearce wrote in \"The Guardian\" that the three inquiries GWPF looked into were all badly flawed, and that \"The Climategate Inquiries\" report ably dissects their failures. He writes that \"for all its sharp—and in many cases justified—rejoinders to the official inquiries its report is likely to be ignored in some quarters for its brazen hypocrisy.\" Pearce argues that one of the criticisms of the three inquiries was that no climate sceptics were on the inquiry teams, and now the critics themselves have produced a review of the reviews that included no one not already supportive of the sceptical position. But, Pearce wrote, Montford \"has landed some good blows here.\" \n\nIn 2014 \"The Independent\" described the foundation as \"the UK's most prominent source of climate-change denial\".\n\n"}
{"id": "147008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147008", "title": "Human shield", "text": "Human shield\n\nHuman shield is a military and political term describing the deliberate placement of non-combatants in or around combat targets to deter the enemy from attacking these combat targets. It may also refer to the use of persons to literally shield combatants during attacks, by forcing them to march in front of the combatants.\n\nUsing this tactic is considered a war crime by nations that are parties to the 1949 Geneva Conventions, the 1977 Additional Protocol I to the Geneva Conventions, and the 1998 Rome Statute.\n\nAfter World War II, it was claimed by German SS general Gottlob Berger that there was a plan, proposed by the Luftwaffe and approved by Adolf Hitler, to set up special POW camps for captured airmen of the Royal Air Force and the United States Army Air Forces in large German cities, to act as human shields against their bombing raids. Berger realized that this would contravene the 1929 Geneva Convention and argued that there was not enough barbed wire—as a result, this plan was not implemented.\n\nWehrmacht and later SS forces extensively used Polish civilians as human shields during Warsaw Uprising when attacking the insurgents' positions.\n\nAt the Wola massacre in Poland on 7 August 1944, the Nazis forced civilian women onto the armored vehicles as human shields to enhance their effectiveness. In Belgium in May 1940, at least 86 civilians were killed by the German Wehrmacht known as the Vinkt Massacre, when the Germans took 140 civilians and used them as shields to cross a bridge while under fire.\n\nDuring the Battle of Okinawa, Japanese soldiers often used civilians as human shields against American troops.\n\nWhen the Japanese were concerned about the incoming Allied air raids on their home islands as they were losing their controlled Pacific islands one by one to the Allies in the Pacific War, they scattered major military installations and factories throughout urban areas, therefore, historians argued that Japan was using its civilians as human shields to protect their legitimate military targets against Allied bombardment. As a result, the U.S. Army Air Forces (USAAF) was unable to strike purely military targets due to the limitations of their bombsight, the mixing of military installations and factories with urban areas, and the widespread of cottage industry in Japan's cities. This led the USAAF in early 1945 to switch from precision bombing to carpet bombing which destroyed 67 Japanese cities with incendiary bombs and the use of atomic bombs on the Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nIn the Battle of the Notch North Korean forces were claimed to have used captured U.S. soldiers as human shields while advancing.\n\nDuring the 1982 Lebanon War, the Palestinian refugee camp of Ain al-Hilweh was surrounded by Israeli forces as the last stronghold of Palestinian militants in southern Lebanon, but \"Soldiers of Allah\" militants commanded by the Muslim fundamentalist Haj Ibrahim refused to surrender: Their motto was \"Victory or death!\" Over a two-day period, Israeli forces under the leadership of Brigadier General Yitzhak Mordechai repeatedly announced \"Whoever does not bear arms will not be harmed\" and urged civilians in the camp to evacuate, but few did. Three delegations of prominent Sidon figures were sent to persuade Haj Ibrahim's fighters that \"their cause was hopeless, and whoever was willing to lay down his arms would be allowed to leave the camp unharmed.\" None of the delegations were successful; the first was prevented from approaching the fighters by \"a spray of bullets,\" while the third \"returned with the most harrowing tale of all\": \"Militiamen were shooting civilians who tried to escape. In one particularly grisly incident, three children had been riddled with bullets before their parents' eyes because their father had dared to suggest calling an end to the fighting.\" After a delegation of Palestinian POWs—\"headed by a PLO officer who was prepared to give the defenders his professional assessment of Ein Hilweh's grave military situation\"—and an offer by Mordechai to \"meet personally with\" Haj Ibrahim were also rebuffed, \"a team of psychologists ... was flown to Sidon to advise the command on how to deal with such irrational behavior.\" However, \"the best advice the psychologists could offer was to organize yet another but considerably larger delegation comprising some forty or so people and including women and children\"; Haj Ibrahim responded to the fifth delegation with \"exactly the same three words\"—triggering a bloody battle in which Israeli troops finally took the camp.\n\nOperation Blue Star was an Indian military operation carried out between 1 and 8 June 1984, ordered by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to remove militant religious leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his armed followers from the buildings of the Harmandir Sahib complex in Amritsar, Punjab. Bhindranwale and large number of his militants were killed in the operation. There was a high civilian casualty (Total 493 including militants) also in the operation, since the militants had been using the pilgrims that had been trapped inside the temple as Human shields. The pilgrims were not allowed by the militants to escape from the temple premises in spite of relaxation in the curfew hours by the security forces. The militants had hoped that the presence of thousands of pilgrims inside the temple premises would have prevented the action by army.\n\nOne of the most famous uses of human shields occurred in Iraq in 1990, following the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait that precipitated the Gulf War of 1990-1991. Saddam Hussein's government detained hundreds of citizens of Western countries who were in Iraq for use as human shields in an attempt to deter nations from participating in military operations against the country. A number of these hostages were filmed meeting Hussein, and kept with him to deter any targeted attacks, whilst others were held in or near military and industrial targets.\n\nIn 1991, during the operations in the Gulf War, the U.S. submitted a report to the UN Security Council denouncing Iraq for having “intentionally placed civilians at risk through its behavior”. The report cited the following examples of such behavior:\n\n\nShortly after the cease-fire between Croat and Serb forces, the Bosnian Serbs launched an assault against the safe area of Goražde, heavily shelling the town and surrounding villages. Protests and exhortations from the UN Security Council turned out to be ineffective, and on 10 and 11 April 1994, NATO launched air strikes against Bosnian Serb positions. In retaliation, Bosnian Serb forces captured many UN personnel, using them as human shields at sites expected to be bombed. In a similar situation to what had happened in Sarajevo, an ultimatum was issued, and by the 24th, most of the Serb troops had complied.\n\nAccording to various accounts—including that of the American ambassador to the U.N., the Taliban used women and children from their own population as human shields against coalition forces in 2006, and 2007, and when the British attacked during August 2008 during the war in Afghanistan.\n\nAccording to B'tselem, Israel repeatedly used Palestinians as human shields since the outset of the military occupation of the Palestinian territories in 1967. This practice became military policy during the second Intifada, and was only dropped when Adalah challenged the practice before Israel’s High Court of Justice in 2002. though the IDF persisted in using Palestinians in its 'neighbor procedure', whereby people picked at random were made to approach the houses of suspects and persuade them to surrender, a practice which arguably placed the former's lives in danger. The court ruled in October 2005 'that any use of Palestinian civilians during military actions is forbidden, including the “prior warning procedure”.' According to B'tselem, reports indicate that the practice has continued nonetheless, in military operations like Operation Cast Lead, and Operation Protective Edge, and the 'vast majority of these reports were never investigated, and those that did resulted in no further action.' \n\nAccording to Israeli defense officials, the Israel Defense Forces made use of the \"human shield\" procedure on 1,200 occasions during the Second Intifada (2000-2005), and only on one occasion did a Palestinian civilian get hurt.\n\nAccording to human rights groups Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) used Palestinian civilians as human shields during the 2002 Battle of Jenin. The Israeli human rights group B'Tselem said that \"for a long period of time following the outbreak of the second intifada, particularly during Operation Defensive Shield, in April 2002, the IDF systematically used Palestinian civilians as human shields, forcing them to carry out military actions which threatened their lives\". Al Mezan reported the systematic use of \"human shields\" during the invasion of Beit Hanoun in 2004. Human shields were also employed by Israeli soldiers to subdue a stone-throwing protest in Hebron in 2003.\n\nIn 2002 the Supreme Court of Israel issued a temporary injunction banning the practice in the wake of the death of a Nidal Abu Mohsen (19) who was shot dead when he was forced by the IDF to knock on the door of his neighbor, Hamas militant Nasser Jarrar, in the West Bank village of Tubas and inform him of the Israeli army's demands that he surrender.\n\nIn 2004, a 13-year-old boy, Muhammed Badwan, was photographed tied to an Israeli police vehicle in the West Bank village of Biddu being used as a shield to deter stone-throwing protesters. Rabbi Arik Ascherman was placed under arrest after he tried to intervene.\n\nIn 2005, Israel's High Court of Justice banned the practice, with the Israeli Defense Ministry appealing the decision. While acknowledging and defending the \"use of Palestinians to deliver warnings to wanted men about impending arrest operations\", a practice known in Israel by the euphemism \"neighbor procedure\", the IDF denied reports of \"using Palestinians as human shields against attacks on IDF forces\", claiming it had already forbidden this practice.\n\nIn 2006, however, initial investigations by B'Tselem indicated that the IDF might have used civilians as human shields in 2006 Beit Hanun.\n\nIn February 2007, footage was released of an incident involving Sameh Amira, a 24-year-old Palestinian, who video showed serving as a human shield for a group of Israeli soldiers, getting inside apartments suspected to belong to Palestinian militants ahead of the soldiers. A 15-year-old cousin of Amira and an 11-year-old girl in the West Bank independently told B'Tselem in February 2007 that Israeli soldiers forced each of them in separate incidents to open the door of a neighboring apartment belonging to a suspected militant, get inside ahead of them, and open doors and windows.\n\nThe Israeli Army launched a criminal investigation into the incident involving Amira. In April 2007, the Israeli army suspended a commander after the unit he was leading was accused of using Palestinians as human shields in a West Bank operation. In April 2007 CBS News reported that, according to human rights groups, the IDF did not stop the use of human shields, but the incidence was dropping.\n\nDuring the 2008-2009 Gaza War known as Operation Cast Lead, Israeli military forces were accused of continuing to use civilians as human shields by Amnesty International and Breaking the Silence. According to testimonies published by these two groups, Israeli forces used unarmed Palestinians including children to protect military positions, walk in front of armed soldiers; go into buildings to check for booby traps or gunmen; and inspect suspicious objects for explosives. Amnesty International stated that it found cases in which \"Israeli troops forced Palestinians to stay in one room of their home while turning the rest of the house into a base and sniper position, effectively using the families, both adults and children, as human shields and putting them at risk\". The UN Human Rights Council also accused Israel of using human shields during 2008-2009 Gaza Conflict.\n\n\"The Guardian\" compiled three videos and testimony from civilians about alleged war crimes committed by Israeli soldiers during the 2008-2009 Gaza War, including the use of Palestinian children as human shields. In the videos three teenage brothers from the al-Attar family claimed that they were forced at gunpoint to kneel in front of tanks to deter Hamas fighters from firing at them and that they were used to \"clear\" houses for the Israeli soldiers.\n\nAn IDF soldier's testimony for Breaking the Silence told that his commander ordered that for every house raided by the IDF, they send a \"neighbor\" to go in before the soldier, sometimes while the soldier placed his gun on the neighbor's shoulder; according to the soldier, \"commanders said these were the instructions and we had to do it\". Gazan civilians also testified of being used at gunpoint as human shields by Israeli soldiers.\nAn Israeli military official responded to these allegations: \"The IDF operated in accordance with the rules of war and did the utmost to minimise harm to civilians uninvolved in combat. The IDF's use of weapons conforms to international law.\" An Israeli embassy spokesperson alleged Hamas pressured the people of Gaza into making those accusations.\n\nOn March 12, 2010, the Israel Defense Forces prosecution filed indictments against two staff sergeants of the Givati Brigade for forcing a 9-year-old Palestinian boy to open a number of bags they thought might contain explosives in January 2009. The boy told he was hit by the soldiers and forced to work for them at gunpoint. The IDF said it opened the investigation after the incident was brought to its attention by the United Nations. On October 3, 2010, a conviction in this matter, accompanied by a demotion and suspended sentence, was handed down by the military court against both defendants, though neither soldier was actually jailed. The sentence was criticized as too lenient by Human Rights Watch and the boy's mother.\n\nA United Nations human rights body accused Israeli forces in June 2013 of \"continuous use of Palestinian children as human shields and informants\", voicing with deep concern 14 such cases had been reported between January 2010 and March 2013. It says almost all accused soldiers involved in the incidents have gone unpunished.\n\nIn an interview with Breaking the Silence, a former Israeli soldier recounted that the commander of his unit employed the policy, despite acknowledging its ban, as he would rather that a Palestinian civilian be killed carrying out the duty than one of his men. He told young Palestinian boys were also used by this particular unit to carry out military duties for the Israeli army.\n\nDefense for Children International-Palestine reported 17-year-old, Ahmad Abu Raida (also:\"“Reeda”\"), was kidnapped by Israeli soldiers, who, after beating him up and threatening him, at times with sexual overtones, used him as a human shield for five days, forcing him to walk in front of them with police dogs at gunpoint, search houses and dig in places soldiers suspected there might be tunnels. The New York Times stated that his assertions could not be independently corroborated; the Israeli military confirmed that he had been detained, noting his father's affiliation with Hamas, who was a senior official in the Gaza Tourism Ministry. No material evidence of the physical violence allegedly suffered by Raida, e.g. photos, medical reports or lingering wounds resulting from repeated blows, was produced.\n\nThe Euro-Mid Observer for Human Rights published testimony that, during the 2014 Gaza War, Israeli soldiers used Palestinian civilians as shield in Khuza'a. A family, that also gave a video interview, recorded by Media Town, told the group that Israeli soldiers had killed the family's patriarch, a 65-year-old who was carrying a white flag, and proceeded to place family members, including children, by the house's windows and shoot from behind them.\n\nA UN official made the accusation that Israel used a school in Gaza as a military base.\n\nIsraeli writer Amos Harel in Haaretz alleged that during the Second Intifada (2000–2005) Palestinian gunmen routinely used civilians and children as human shields and further alleges that there is photographic evidence.\n\nOn 22 November 2006, Human Rights Watch (HRW) accused Muhammad Wail Baroud, a military commander in the Popular Resistance Committee, of using civilians for shielding homes against military attacks but later stated that they erred. There was no evidence that the house was being used for military purposes at the time of the planned attack, nor did the IDF explain what military objective it could have had. They considered the destruction in light of Israel's longstanding policy of destroying homes as punitive measures instead of as legitimate military targets. HRW acknowledged they did not consider the motives of the civilians, such as whether they willingly assembled or not, and emphasized that it did not want to criticize non-violent resistance or any other form of peaceful protest, including civilians defending their homes.\n\nThe United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict (\"UNFFMG\") that took place in 2008-2009 accepted the possibility that Hamas launched mortar attacks from the vicinity of a school and from residential homes, sometimes by threat of force against residents. The UN Mission found evidence that \"rocket units of the Palestinian armed groups operated from within populated areas\" and used threats of force to enter residential yards, including one instance where a resident said that \"his father had previously been shot in the leg by a member of such an armed group when he had tried to prevent them from using his land as a rocket launching site.\" Similarly, the report found evidence that Palestinian militants \"fir[ed] a rocket from a courtyard of a Government school in Gaza City at a time when the schools were closed.\"\n\nThe report was unable to find specific evidence that civilians whose homes were used for rocket launches were \"forced to remain in their houses\" but the report repeatedly noted that Gaza residents were \"reluctant\" to discuss the conduct of Palestinian armed forces due to fear of reprisals. Some witnesses stated that they had stayed in their homes because they \"did not think they would be at risk as long as they remained indoors or because they had no safe place to go.\" Similarly, an Amnesty International report in 2009 criticized Hamas for human rights violations including launching missiles from homes, but found no evidence that Palestinian fighters \"directed civilians to shield military objectives from attacks\" or \"forced them\" to stay in buildings used by militants. \nA review article in \"Case Western Reserve Journal of International Law\" stated that Israel warned residents to leave by using warnings such as roof knocking and phone calls, and that \"Israel asserted that Palestinian civilians who did not abide by the warnings were acting as 'voluntary human shields,' and were thus taking part in hostilities and could be targeted as combatants.\" The article determined this assertion to be unsupportable in international law.\n\nThe Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs says Hamas now regularly uses human shields to protect the homes of Hamas officials. The Israeli Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center accused Hamas and other armed groups of making extensive use of human shields as integral part of their war doctrine, in order to prevent the IDF to target them, during the Gaza War (2008-2009). The IDF released footage allegedly showing Palestinian fighters using ambulances for military purposes. Magen David Adom, the Israeli ambulance and medical emergency service, submitted to the UN a report concluding the accusation was unfounded.\n\nAmnesty International investigated the repeated claims by Israel that Hamas was guilty of using human shields after the cessation of hostilities and found no evidence that Hamas or other Palestinian fighters \"directed the movement of civilians to shield military objectives from attacks\" however, as noted, many refused to speak with the UN and Amnesty and the evidence of the use of residential facilities is ample. The same organization asserted that \"there was ample evidence to indicate that, in defiance of IDF rules, Israeli soldiers had used Palestinian civilians and children as shields to protect themselves\" by sending Palestinians into homes where other militants were located and to encourage their surrender. \n\nIn relation to Al-Fakhura school incident during the Gaza War of January 2009, Israel accused Hamas of \"cynically\" using civilians as human shields. A UN Board of Inquiry found that there was no firing from within the school and no explosives within the school. The Board could not establish with certainty whether there had been any firing from the vicinity of the school.\n\nThe UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay accused Hamas militants of violating international humanitarian law by \"locating rockets within schools and hospitals, or even launching these rockets from densely populated areas.\" The European Union condemned Hamas, and in particular condemned \"calls on the civilian population of Gaza to provide themselves as human shields.\" France24 confirmed the use of urban warfare, filming a rocket launch pad which was placed in a civilian area next to a hotel where international journalists were staying. Peter Stefanovic of Australia’s Nine News tweeted that rockets had been fired \"over our hotel from a site about two hundred metres away. So a missile launch site is basically next door.” Janis Mackey Frayer of Canada's CTV reported seeing a Hamas gunman dressed in a woman's headscarf with a \"tip of a gun poked out from under cloak.” Harry Fear reporting for Russia Today tweeted that rockets were fired from near his hotel. His tweet was later deleted, and he was expelled from Gaza. Several journalists who alleged Hamas use of human shields and rocket locations close to civilian infrastructure reported being threatened by Hamas.\n\nIn a September 2014 interview, a Hamas official acknowledged to Associated Press that the group fired at Israel from civilian areas. He ascribed the practice to \"mistakes\", but said the group had little option due to the crowded landscape of the Strip, with its dearth of open zones. He denied accusations that rockets were launched \"from schools or hospitals when in fact they were fired 200 or 300 meters (yards) away\". In a 2014 interview, a Hamas political leader Khaled Meshaal said to a CNN interviewer that the group did not use its people as human shields.\n\nIn interviews with Gazan refugees, reporters for \"The Independent\" and \"The Guardian\" concluded it was a \"myth\" that Hamas forced civilians to stay in areas under attack against their will; many refugees told them they refused to heed the IDF's warnings because even areas Israel had declared safe for refugees had been shelled by its forces. The BBC Middle East editor Jeremy Bowen also said he \"saw no evidence of Hamas using Palestinians as human shields\". An Amnesty International document (dated July 25, 2014) asserts that they do \"not have evidence at this point that Palestinian civilians have been intentionally used by Hamas or Palestinian armed groups during the current hostilities to “shield” specific locations or military personnel or equipment from Israeli attacks.\"<ref name=\"MDE 15/017/2014\">\"\"Document - Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories: Israel/Gaza conflict, July 2014</ref> Amnesty International's assessment was that international humanitarian law was clear in that \"even if officials or fighters from Hamas or Palestinian armed groups associated with other factions did in fact direct civilians to remain in a specific location in order to shield military objectives from attacks, all of Israel’s obligations to protect these civilians would still apply.\" The human rights group, however, still found that Palestinian factions, as in previous conflicts, launched attacks from civilian areas.\n\nHamas Arabic-speaking spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri called up Gaza civilians on Hamas’s Al-Aqsa TV July 8, 2014 to stay put in areas under fire by Israel, prompting accusations from Israel and others — the European Union, for example — that Hamas was calling on people to volunteer as \"in effect human shields\". For Amnesty International, however, Hamas' call may have been \"motivated by a desire to avoid further panic\" among civilians, considering both the lack of shelters in Gaza and the fact that some civilians who heeded the IDF's warnings had been casualties of Israeli attacks.\n\nA Gatestone Institute survey of Gazan residents addressed the subject of human shields during the 2014 war, with respondents issuing statements such as \"People received warnings from the Israelis and tried to evacuate ... Hamas shot some of those people ... the rest were forced to return to their homes and get bombed\"; \"Hamas imposed a curfew: anyone walking out in the street was shot without being asked any questions. That way Hamas made sure people had to stay in their homes even if they were about to get bombed\"; and \"My father received a text-message from the Israeli army warning him that our area was going to be bombed, and Hamas prevented us from leaving.\" In a press conference on September 6, 2014, Mahmoud Abbas alleged \"that Hamas had killed 120 Fatah members who broke the curfew.\" Israeli soldiers recounted \"Suddenly, a small boy appeared, and the terrorist grabbed him and escaped with him\"; \"I saw with my own eyes someone using another person, a woman, as a shield ... And I can see very clearly that the woman doesn't want to be there and he's pulling her with him\"; and \"We even found explosives in nurseries. The whole neighborhood was practically a terrorist base.\"\n\nDuring the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, a group of people chose to travel to Iraq to act as human shields. Their purpose was to prevent American-led coalition forces from bombing certain locations. Of about 200 to 500 human shields who traveled to Iraq before hostilities, at least eighty stayed.\n\nScott Ewing, Cavalry Scout, 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment, US Army, who served in Iraq in the 2005-2006 period, stated that US troops would give candy to Iraqi children so they would stay around their vehicles, thereby making more likely that \"the bad guys wouldn't attack. We used the kids as human shields\".\n\nAustralian journalist Chris Link reported what he claimed were photographed incidents during the 2006 Lebanon War in which Hezbollah used Lebanese civilians as human shields to dissuade the IDF from firing at gunmen and rocket launchers. The alleged incidents occurred in the Christian area of Wadi Chahrour in Eastern Beirut removed from the primary war zone of South Lebanon. Human Rights Watch conducted its own investigation and reported that Hezbollah did not \"deliberately\" use civilians as a deterrent from IDF attack. HRW did however conclude Hezbollah stored weapons \"in or near civilian homes\" and fighters launched rockets within populated areas and near UN observers. HRW also accused Hezbollah of using Lebanese homes as sites for rocket launchers, usually without the homeowner's knowledge or permission, putting large numbers of civilians at risk.\n\nOn July 25, 2006, Israeli forces attacked and destroyed an UN observer post in southern Lebanon, resulting in four deaths. One of the fatalities, Canadian Major Paeta Derek Hess-von Kruedener, had sent an e‑mail to his former commander, retired Major-General Lewis MacKenzie, several days before his death in which he described the Israeli bombardment, writing \"The closest artillery has landed within two meters of our position and the closest 1,000 lb aerial bomb has landed 100 meters from our patrol base. This has not been deliberate targeting, but rather due to tactical necessity\". MacKenzie interpreted this language for a reporter: \"What that means is, in plain English, 'We've got Hezbollah fighters running around in our positions, taking our positions here and then using us for shields and then engaging the (Israeli Defence Forces).'\" A senior UN official,replying about Maj. Hess-von Kruedener's e-mail concerning Hezbollah presence in the area of the UN base said.\n\"At the time, there had been no Hezbollah activity reported in the area. \"So it was quite clear they were not going after other targets; that, for whatever reason, our position was being fired upon.\" He went on to claim that the Israelis were told where the UN base was and that it was clearly marked but they bombed it anyway.\n\nAccording to the Pakistan Army spokesman, Islamic militants used girls as human shields in Pakistan during the 2007 Siege of Lal Masjid. The mosque's head cleric denied the allegations.\n\nOn December 4, 2009, terrorists attacked a Friday prayer ceremony in a mosque in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, where Bilal Riaz, a graduate student, acted as a human shield to save his nephew's life.\n\nAccording to a Human Rights Watch report published on February 19, 2009, the LTTE had been preventing Tamil civilians from fleeing out of rebel held area and using them as human shields against a Sri Lankan Army offensive. The LTTE was principally responsible for the loss of civilian life during the final phase of the armed conflict through their action to use fleeing Tamil civilians as Human Shields.\n\nDuring the civil war of 2011, Gaddafi loyalists were acting as human shields in the Libya no-fly zone, to try to protect Gaddafi's compound and airports.\n\nIn March 2016, during the second civil war, it was reported that two Italians who had been kidnapped in June 2015 were killed while they were used as human shields by Islamic State gunmen in Sorman.\n\nDuring the Syrian civil war, the Syrian Armed Forces and loyalists were accused by Human Rights Watch of using residents of towns as human shields when advancing on opposition held areas, forcing them to march in front of the army. Witness from different towns across the country said that the army had kidnapped people and forced them to march in front of them when attacking towns and villages. The purpose of this was to protect the army from attack. HRW said \"The Syrian army should immediately stop this abhorrent practice.\" Witnesses stated that the army forcibly used children and elderly people as well to deter anyone from firing on the soldiers.\n\nThe Islamic State (ISIL) militants, Saudi-supported Syrian branch of al-Qaeda, and Jaysh al-Islam anti-Assad rebels were accused of using civilian residents of towns, Alawite civilians and captured Syrian soldiers as human shields.\n\nRussian troops are reported to have used local civilians to avoid defence shooting when storming the Ukrainian Navy headquarters in Sevastopol and Ukrainian naval vessels.\n\nReports of Indian forces, both Army as well as counter-insurgent police forces, using Kashmiri civilians as human shields have sporadically appeared in the reports of media as well as in the reports of human rights organisations such as HRW. However, on April 9, 2017, A 26-year-old man, alleged by the Indian Army to be involved in throwing stones at Indian troops, was tied to the front of a Jeep belonging to Indian Army as a column of Indian troops was moving through a locality, the man was reportedly tied to the vehicle to dissuade other Kashmiri protesters from hurling stones at the Indian troops. The BJP led Indian Govt. stated that it will stand by the officer who took the decision (to use the young man as a human shield). Furthermore, members of the ruling BJP took to social media and threatened a country wide agitation if any action was taken against the erring military Major, identified as Major Leetul Gogoi.\n\nIn recent years civilians have volunteered to serve as “human shields” to prevent military conflict. In January 2003, anti-war activists organised Human Shield Action to Iraq in advance of the March 2003 invasion. Ultimately, Human Shield Action brought 200 people to Iraq. Many of them left as they ran out of money and the likelihood of war became greater. Several of these human shields had to be rescued by U.S. Marines after Iraqis threatened them for opposing the invasion of their country.\n\nRabbis for Human Rights agreed to act as “human shields” during the annual olive harvest to protect Palestinian villages from settlers. Rachel Corrie and Tom Hurndall, Western International Solidarity Movement (ISM) volunteers in the Palestinian territories, who died in 2003 and 2004 respectively have been described as “human shields” campaigning against house demolition. ISM, however, strongly takes offence at the use of the term \"human shield\" to describe their work, preferring it be used only to refer to when armed combatants uses civilians as shields. Not even Amnesty International defines volunteer activist's actions or activist's actions for non-military property as “human shields”, and regards only the direction of \"specific civilians to remain in their homes as “human shields” for fighters, munitions, or military equipment\" as “human shields”. According to the 3 definitions in the header of this article the 'volunteers to protect Palestinians' make them not “human shields outside the battlefield” but protesters or ordinary pro-Palestinian demonstrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "3014462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3014462", "title": "Identical note", "text": "Identical note\n\nAn identical note is a term used in diplomacy to denote terms agreed upon by two powers to coerce a third.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2615233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2615233", "title": "Independent Democrats (Czech Republic)", "text": "Independent Democrats (Czech Republic)\n\nIndependent Democrats ( or NEZDEM) was a small populist political party in the Czech Republic. Its founder Vladimír Železný, MEP, was elected its chairman during the party's convention on 6–7 August 2005. It advocates strict immigration policies, the abolition of the Senate, and review of the country's relationship with the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "26869128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26869128", "title": "Loss of rights due to conviction for criminal offense", "text": "Loss of rights due to conviction for criminal offense\n\nLoss of rights due to criminal conviction refers to the practice in some countries of reducing the rights of individuals who have been convicted of a criminal offence. The restrictions are in addition to other penalties such as incarceration or fines. In addition to restrictions imposed directly upon conviction, there can also be collateral civil consequences resulting from a criminal conviction, but which are not imposed directly by the courts as a result of the conviction.\n\nIn Canada, criminal law is a federal matter, set out in the Criminal Code. Restrictions can be placed on certain activities following a conviction involving: (1) the use of weapons in the commission of a criminal offence; (2) driving a vehicle while impaired by alcohol or drugs; (3) electoral corruption.\n\nWhen a person is convicted of an offence in which the person used a weapon, or threatened to use a weapon, the sentencing court has the power to prohibit the person from possessing a weapon for a certain period of time. In the case of certain offences, the prohibition on possession is mandatory. In other cases, the court has discretion whether to impose a prohibition on possession.\n\nFor first offences, the court can set the prohibition period as any time up to ten years. For subsequent offences, the convicted person is prohibited from possessing a weapon for life. However, even for first offences, the court can impose a lifetime prohibition if the convicted person used a weapon against the convicted person's intimate partner, the convicted person's children, or any person living with the convicted person. As well, there is a lifetime prohibition on possessing prohibited firearms or weapons (such as fully automatic firearms), and restricted firearms (such as handguns).\n\nThe \"Criminal Code\" contains several offences related to driving a motor vehicle, including driving while impaired or with a blood alcohol count greater than eighty milligrams of alcohol in one hundred millilitres of blood (\".08\"), impaired or .08 driving causing bodily harm or death, dangerous driving (including dangerous driving causing bodily harm or death), and street racing. A person convicted of one of these offences can be subject to a prohibition on driving a motor vehicle for a certain period of time.\n\nFor convictions for impaired driving or driving over .08, the court must impose a mandatory driving prohibition of at least one year and not more than three years for a first offence. The length of the mandatory driving prohibitions increase with second and subsequent offences. If the convicted person participates in an interlock program, the length of the prohibition may be reduced, but must be at least three months. Similar mandatory prohibition orders are imposed for offences involving a motor vehicle which cause bodily harm or death and for street racing.\n\nFor offences other than impaired driving/.08 or street racing, or not involving bodily harm or death, the sentencing court has discretion to impose driving prohibitions.\n\nIn addition to the driving prohibitions under the \"Criminal Code\", there may be collateral civil consequences. For example, driver licences are issued under provincial law. All provinces will cancel the driver licence of a person convicted of certain driving offences under the \"Criminal Code\".\n\nThe \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" guarantees that all Canadian citizens have the right to vote in federal and provincial elections. The Supreme Court of Canada has held that even if a Canadian citizen has committed a criminal offence and is incarcerated, they retain the constitutional right to vote. In the 2015 federal election, more than 22,000 inmates in federal correctional institutes were eligible to vote.\nThere is one exception to this general principle. The Supreme Court has held that if a person is convicted of corrupt electoral practices, they can be evicted from the legislature, barred from being nominated for election for a set period, and denied the right to vote for a set period. These restrictions are acceptable because they are a sanction aimed at the very offence committed by the individual, rather than being a general disenfranchisement. The restrictions are aimed at healing the corrupted electoral process, which itself is a constitutional value, and therefore can be justified for limited periods.\n\nWithin the United Kingdom, criminal law is primarily a matter of the four constituent countries. After a conviction, an offender can, in some cases, lose:\n\nIn the United States, loss of rights due to criminal conviction can take several forms, including voting disenfranchisement, exclusion from jury duty, and loss of the right to possess firearms\n\nEvery state with the exception of Maine and Vermont prohibits felons from voting while in prison. Nine other states disenfranchise felons for various lengths of time following the completion of their probation or parole. However, the severity of each state's disenfranchisement varies. 1 in 43 adults were disenfranchised as of 2006. The issue of disenfranchisement gained awareness in 2000 after the \"excruciatingly close\" presidential election, wherein 2% of the voting-age population was prohibited from participating. In that election, George W. Bush won Florida by 537 votes, however 31% of black Floridians were denied the vote due to disenfranchisement. Given that African American voters are typically Democratic voters, it was argued at the time that their exclusion \"decisively\" changed the outcome of the election.\n\nIn \"Reynolds v. Sims\", the Court ruled that the right to vote is a \"fundamental right,\" establishing a strict scrutiny test. Further, the Fourteenth Amendment guarantees \"equal protection of the laws\" to all persons. However, Section 2 of this Amendment allows states to remove voting privileges from anyone who has participated in \"rebellion or other crime.\" A 1972 Supreme Court ruling found that this article applied to disenfranchisement of ex-felons. The Civic Participation and Rehabilitation Act, allowing for ex-felons to vote, has been introduced at the beginning of every legislative session since 1994, but has never made it to the floor of Congress.\n\nTwo states, Kentucky and Florida (Gov. Rick Scott reverted to the old policy in 2010 that had been changed by Gov. Charlie Crist), continue to impose a lifelong denial of the right to vote to all citizens with a felony record, in the absence of a restoration of civil rights by the Governor or, where allowed, state legislature. Florida law is somewhat unusual, in that the individual must be pardoned by the Governor and a majority of the publicly elected State Cabinet (with the Governor's vote being the tiebreaker, if necessary).\n\nThe lifetime exclusion of felons from jury service is the majority rule in the United States, used in 31 states and in federal courts. The result is that over 6% of the adult population is excluded, including about 30% of black men. Felon jury exclusion is less visible than felony disenfranchisement, and few socio-legal scholars have challenged the statutes that withhold a convicted felon's opportunity to sit on a jury. While constitutional challenges to felon jury exclusion almost always originate from interested litigants, some scholars contend that \"it is the interests of the excluded felons that are most directly implicated.\"\n\nYet attacks on these blanket prohibitions levied by excluded felon jurors have failed consistently. The United States Supreme Court does not recognize the right to sit on a jury as fundamental. It has been pointed out that, although lawmakers assert that felon jury exclusion measures protect the integrity of the adjudicative process, as felons \"lack the requisite probity\" to serve on a jury and are \"inherently biased,\" many of the states subscribing to this practice allow felons to practice law. But that is a double-standard only if it is presumed that those who judge the arguments of both sides in a case are allowed to be as biased as those arguing for each side.\n\nSince 1968, felons are regarded by the federal government, and most US states, as being \"prohibited persons\" under US law (). It is a class C felony punishable by up to 10 years in prison under this subsection \"to ship or transport in interstate or foreign commerce, or possess in or affecting commerce, any firearm or ammunition; or to receive any firearm or ammunition which has been shipped or transported in interstate or foreign commerce.\" This has been litigated before the Supreme Court. However, the Court upheld the regulation. \n\n"}
{"id": "48491843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48491843", "title": "Mackau Law", "text": "Mackau Law\n\nThe Laws of 18 and 19 July 1845, commonly known as Mackau Law (French: \"Lois Mackau\") are a set of laws which paved the way towards the abolition of slavery in France. They were instigated by Ange de Mackau, then Minister of the Navy and of Colonies. Effective abolition was enacted with the Decree abolishing Slavery of 27 April 1848.\n\nThe Mackau laws constituted the last wave of legislation to enhance the status of slaves in France before outright abolition. They mandated a minimal duration for education of slaves, made it illegal to inflict over 15 lashes without a court order, and married slaves belonging to different masters obtained a right to family reunification.\n\nIn July 1846, Louis Philippe I abolished slavery in the Royal domains of Martinique, Guadeloupe, and the newly purchased Mayotte. However, François Guizot stalled further progress.\n\nPrevious dispositions had been implemented with various degrees of good faith in the colonies, a point of recrimination for abolitionists. For instance, the mayors of towns where new schools were opened instituted a student selection procedures obviously intended to exclude slaves. Alexandre Auguste Ledru-Rollin and Agénor de Gasparin, notably, opposed the new Mackau laws on the ground that further legislation, adding to a pile of laws that were not effectively implemented, were useless.\n"}
{"id": "3831847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3831847", "title": "Manuela Beltrán", "text": "Manuela Beltrán\n\nManuela Beltrán was a Neogranadine woman who organized a peasant revolt against excess taxation in 1780.\n\nThe information concerning the biography of Manuela Beltran is scarce and fragmented. It is believed she was of peasant origin, was born around 1750, and lived most of her life in Villa del Socorro, Santander, where she ran her own small grocery store, at the main square of Socorro; at the time, in the Viceroyalty of New Granada, it was very uncommon for a woman to own her own business. Besides, Beltran was one of the few people in the region that could read and write, given the virtually complete illiteracy of the population due to the absence of education facilities.\n\nDuring the first half of the 18th century, the Spanish Empire was focused on the improvement of its military force, especially the Infanteria de Marina, since the main economic interests of the empire depended of the complete control of its American colonies. By 1717, the \"Cuerpo de Batallones de Marina\" was definitively settled and organized, reaching its full strength of twelve battalions. The first ones were named: Armada, Bajeles, Marina, Oceano, Mediterráneo and Barlovento. Their mission was to form the \"Main body of landing columns and ship's soldiers tasks\" in a time when boarding was still a critical part of battle at sea.\n\nThe major actions they took part in during this period were: Sardinia, 1717; Naples and Sicily, 1732; Defense of Havana, 1762; Algiers expedition, 1775; Pensacola and Siege of Toulon.\n\nThese military actions demanded a large amount of money and resources, which resulted in larger taxations for the people living in the colonies. The new harsh taxation regimen (implemented and promoted by General Visitor Juan Francisco Gutiérrez de Piñeres, and ratified by the Viceroy and Archbishop Antonio Caballero y Góngora) included the raise on the Alcabala, taxes over the consumption of Aguardiente and Tobacco, taxes over the entry of merchandises, and a sales tax.\n\nThe edict of the new taxation regimen was placed in the main square of Socorro on March 16, 1781. Since Beltran could read, she informed the crowd about the dispositions, which was greeted with general outrage. She tore apart the document and led the strike action which extended to over sixty cities and towns in the Andean Region of Colombia and Los Llanos. The revolt eventually ended with a fake negotiation offered by the Viceroy, followed by the capture and execution of most of the revolt leaders including José Antonio Galán. Whether or not Manuela Beltran was also executed remains unclear.\n\n"}
{"id": "875125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875125", "title": "Midday Meal Scheme", "text": "Midday Meal Scheme\n\nThe Midday Meal Scheme is a school meal programme of the Government of India designed to better the nutritional standing of school-age children nationwide. The programme supplies free lunches on working days for children in primary and upper primary classes in government, government aided, local body, Education Guarantee Scheme, and alternate innovative education centres, \"Madarsa\" and \"Maqtabs\" supported under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, and National Child Labour Project schools run by the ministry of labour. Serving 120,000,000 children in over 1,265,000 schools and Education Guarantee Scheme centres, it is the largest of its kind in the world.\n\nUnder article 24, paragraph 2c of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which India is a party, India has committed to yielding \"adequate nutritious foods\" for children. The programme has undergone many changes since its launch in 1995. The Midday Meal Scheme is covered by the National Food Security Act, 2013. The legal backing to the Indian school meal programme is akin to the legal backing provided in the US through the National School Lunch Act.\n\nThe roots of the programme can be traced back to the pre-independence era, when a mid day meal programme was introduced in 1925 in Madras Corporation by the British administration. A mid day meal programme was introduced in the Union Territory of Puducherry by the French administration in 1930.\n\nInitiatives by state governments to children began with their launch of a mid day meal programme in primary schools in the 1962–63 school year. Tamil Nadu is a pioneer in introducing mid day meal programmes in India to increase the number of kids coming to school; Thiru K. Kamaraj, then Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, introduced it first in Chennai and later extended it to all districts of Tamil Nadu.\n\nDuring 1982, July 1st onwards, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Thiru. M. G. Ramachandran upgraded the existing Mid-day meal scheme in the state to 'Nutritious food scheme' keeping in the mind that 68 lakh children suffer malnutrition.\n\nGujarat was the second state to introduce an MDM scheme in 1984, but it was later discontinued.\n\nA midday meal scheme was introduced in Kerala in 1984, and was gradually expanded to include more schools and grades. By 1990–91, twelve states were funding the scheme to all or most of the students in their area: Goa, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. Karnataka, Orissa, and West Bengal received international aid to help with implementation of the programme, and in Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan the programme was funded entirely using foreign aid.\n\nIn Karnataka, Children's LoveCastles Trust started to provide mid-day meals in 1997. A total of eight schools were adopted and a food bank programme and an Angganwasi milk Programme were started. The food-bank programme was replaced by the State Government midday meal scheme.\n\nThe government of India initiated the National Programme of Nutritional Support to Primary Education (NP-NSPE) on 15 August 1995. The objective of the scheme is to help improve the effectiveness of primary education by improving the nutritional status of primary school children. Initially, the scheme was implemented in 2,408 blocks of the country to provide food to students in classes one through five of government, government-aided and local body run schools. By 1997–98, the scheme had been implemented across the country. Under this programme, a cooked mid day meal with 300 calories and 12 grams of protein is provided to all children enrolled in classes one to five. In October 2007, the scheme included students in upper primary classes of six to eight in 3,479 educationally backward blocks, and the name was changed from National Programme for Nutrition Support to Primary Education to National Programme of Mid Day Meals in Schools.\n\nThough cooked food was to be provided, most states (apart from those already providing cooked food) chose to provide \"dry rations\" to students. \"Dry rations\" refers to the provision of uncooked 3 kg of wheat or rice to children with 80% attendance.\n\nIn April 2001, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) initiated the public interest litigation (Civil) No. 196/2001, People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India & Others – popularly known as the \"right to food\" case. The PUCL argued that – \"right to life\" of the Indian constitution when read together with articles (a) and , makes the right to food a derived fundamental right which is enforceable by virtue of the constitutional remedy provided under of the constitution. The PUCL argued that excess food stocks with the Food Corporation of India should be fed to hungry citizens. This included providing mid day meals in primary schools. The scheme came into force with the supreme court order dated 28 November 2001, which requires all government and government-assisted primary schools to provide cooked midday meals.\n\nThe supreme court occasionally issues interim orders regarding midday meals. Some examples are:\nThe nutritional guidelines for the minimum amount of food and calorie content per child per day are:\n\nIn the case of micronutrients (vitamin A, iron, and folate) tablets and de-worming medicines, the student is entitled to receive the amount provided for in the school health programme of the National Rural Health Mission.\n\nThe central and state governments share the cost of the Midday Meal Scheme, with the centre providing 60 percent and the states 40 percent. The central government provides grains and financing for other food. Costs for facilities, transportation, and labour is shared by the federal and state governments. The participating states contribute different amounts of money. While the eleventh five-year plan allocated for the scheme, the twelfth five-year plan has allocated , a 134 percent rise. The public expenditure for the Mid Day Meal Programme has gone up from in 2007–08 to in 2013–14. The per day cooking cost per child at the primary level has been fixed to while at the upper primary level is .\n\nThis is the most widespread practice. In the decentralised model, meals are cooked on-site by local cooks and helpers or self-help groups. This system has the advantage of being able to serve local cuisine, providing jobs in the area, and minimising waste. It also allows for better monitoring (e.g., by parents and teachers).\n\nIn the absence of adequate infrastructure (such as kitchen sheds, utensils etc.), it can lead to accidents and maintaining hygiene can be difficult. In 2004, 87 children died when the thatched roof of a classroom was ignited by sparks from a cooking fire. In 2011, a child died after succumbing to burn injuries she sustained after accidentally falling into a cooking vessel.\n\nIn the centralised model, an external organisation cooks and delivers the meal to schools, mostly through public-private partnerships. Centralised kitchens are seen more in urban areas, where density of schools is high so that transporting food is a financially viable option. Advantages of centralised kitchens include ensuring better hygienic as large scale cooking is done through largely automated processes. Various NGOs such as the Akshaya Patra Foundation, Ekta Shakti Foundation, Naandi Foundation, and Jay Gee Humanitarian Society & People's Forum provides mid-day meals.\n\nA study of centralised kitchens in Delhi in 2007 found that even with centralised kitchens, the quality of food needed to be improved. The study also found that when the food arrives and is of inadequate quality, even teachers feel helpless and do not know whom to complain to.\n\nThe Ministry of Human Resource Development reported that 95% of tested meal samples prepared by NGOs in Delhi did not meet nutritional standards in 2010–12. In response, the ministry withheld 50% of the payment for the deficient meals.\n\nInternational voluntary and charity organisations have assisted. Church World Service has provided milk powder to Delhi and Madras Municipal Corporation; CARE has provided corn soya meal, Bulgar wheat, and vegetable oils; and UNICEF has provided high proteins foods and educational support. In 1982, 'Food for Learning' was launched with assistance from the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). Initially the programme was aimed at scheduled caste and scheduled tribe girls. In 1983, the federal Department of Education prepared a scheme under the auspices of the World Food Programme to supply meals to 13.6 million scheduled caste girls and 10.09 million scheduled tribe girls in classes one to five in 15 states and three union territories. The value of the food itself was $163.27 million per year. Labour, facilities, and transportation costs were to be paid by the state governments. The reaction among the states and union territories was mixed. Many states were interested, but some were concerned about their ability to afford it if the FAO support were to be withdrawn.\n\nThe government of India Review Missions on Mid Day Meal Scheme, comprising members from the central government, state governments, UNICEF, and the office of the supreme court commissioner was created in 2010 to review the programme and offer suggestions for improvement. The scheme is independently monitored twice a year.\n\nThe MDM scheme has many potential benefits: attracting children from disadvantaged sections (especially girls, Dalits and Adivasis) to school, improving regularity, nutritional benefits, socialisation benefits and benefits to women are some that have been highlighted.\n\nStudies by economists show that some of these benefits have indeed been realised. The positive effect on enrollment of disadvantaged children (Dreze and Kingdon), on attendance (by Chakraborty, Jayaraman, Pande), on learning effort (by Booruah, Afridi and Somanathan), on improving nutritional inputs (Afridi), on improving nutritional outcomes (by Singh, Dercon and Parker), and so on.\n\nCaste based discrimination continues to occur in the serving of food, though the government seems unwilling to acknowledge this. Sukhdeo Thorat and Joel Lee found in their 2005 study that caste discrimination was occurring in conjunction with the Mid Day Meals programme.\n\nMedia reports also document the positive effect of the programme for women, especially working women and its popularity among parents, children and teachers alike. Media reports have also highlighted several implementation issues, including irregularity, corruption, hygiene, caste discrimination, etc. A few such incidents are listed below:\n\n- In December 2005, Delhi police seized eight trucks laden with 2,760 sacks of rice meant for primary school children. The rice was being transported from Food Corporation of India godowns Bulandshahr district to North Delhi. The police stopped the trucks and investigators later discovered that the rice was being stolen by an NGO.\n\n- In November 2006, the residents of Pembong village (30 km from Darjeeling) accused a group of teachers of embezzling midday meals. In a written complaint, the residents claimed that students at the primary school had not received their midday meal for the past year and a half.\n\n- In December 2006, \"The Times of India\" reported that school staff were inflating attendance in order to obtain food grains.\n\n- Twenty-three children died in Dharma Sati village in Saran District on 16 July 2013 after eating pesticide-contaminated mid day meals. On 31 July 2013, 55 students at a government middle school fell ill at Kalyuga village in Jamui district after their midday meal provided by an NGO. On the same day, 95 students at Chamandi primary school in Arwal district were ill after their meal.\n\nDespite the success of the program, child hunger as a problem persists in India. According to current statistics, 42.5% of the children under 5 are underweight. Some simple health measures such as using iodised salt and getting vaccinations are uncommon in India. \"India is home to the world's largest food insecure population, with more than 500 million people who are hungry\", India State Hunger Index (ISHI) said. Many children don't get enough to eat, which has far-reaching implications for the performance of the country as a whole. \"Its rates of child malnutrition is higher than most countries in Sub-Saharan Africa,\" it noted. The 2009 Global Hunger Index ranked India at 65 out of 84 countries. More than 200 million went hungry in India that year, more than any other country in the world. The report states that \"improving child nutrition is of utmost urgency in most Indian states\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40582629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40582629", "title": "Ministry of Agrarian Development (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Agrarian Development (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Agrarian Development (, abbreviated MDA) is a cabinet-level federal ministry in Brazil. The current Minister of Agrarian Development is Osmar Terra.\n\nThe MDA was established in 1999 to oversee land reform in Brazil and promote sustainable practices. The agency oversees the Center for Agrarian Studies and Rural Development (NEAD) and the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (Incra).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "271434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271434", "title": "Minority government", "text": "Minority government\n\nA minority government, or minority cabinet or minority parliament, is a cabinet formed in a parliamentary system when a political party or coalition of parties does not have a majority of overall seats in the parliament. It is sworn into office, with or without the formal support of other parties, to enable a government to be formed. Under such a government, legislation can only be passed with the support of enough other members of the legislature to provide a majority, encouraging multi-partisanship. In bicameral parliaments, the term relates to the situation in chamber whose confidence is considered most crucial to the continuance in office of the government (generally, the lower house).\n\nA minority government tends to be much less stable than a majority government because if they can unite for the purpose, opposing parliamentary members have the numbers to vote against legislation, or even bring down the government with a vote of no confidence.\n\nTo deal with situations in parliamentary systems where no clear majority to support a government exists, two or more parties may establish a formal coalition government, commanding a clear majority of the parliamentary members, or a party might enter into less formal alliances or agreements with other parties, or individual members, to allow the minority government to stay in office.\n\nA common situation is governance with \"jumping majorities\": the cabinet stays as long as it can negotiate support from a majority in the parliament, even though that majority may be differently formed from issue to issue or from bill to bill. On occasion the legislature may permit a minority cabinet to continue in office despite having been defeated on a given vote, and a minority government might even bring on a confidence vote and threaten to resign should the legislature vote against it.\n\nAn alternative arrangement is a looser alliance of parties, exemplified by Sweden. There the long-governing Social Democrats have ruled with more or less formal support from other parties – in the mid-20th century from Agrarians, after 1968 from Communists, and more recently from Greens and ex-Communists – and have thus been able to retain executive power and (in practice) legislative initiative. This is also common in Canada, where nine elections from 1921 to 2005 effectively produced minority federal governments. The parties can rarely cooperate enough to establish a formal coalition, but operate under a loose agreement instead.\n\nOccasionally a confidence and supply agreement may be formed. This is a more formal pact which still falls short of creating a coalition government. In the Canadian province of Ontario, the Liberal Party formed a minority government from 1985 to 1987 on the basis of a formal accord with the New Democratic Party (NDP): the NDP agreed to support the Liberals for two years on all confidence motions and budgetary legislation, in exchange for the passage of certain legislative measures proposed by the NDP. This was not a formal coalition, because the NDP remained an opposition party and was not given seats in the cabinet. In this case the Liberals did not even have a plurality of seats: the Progressive Conservatives were the largest single party with 52 seats, but the Liberals had 48 and the NDP had 25.\n\nNew Zealand's 48th Parliament operated with both a coalition and a looser agreement: the government was a coalition between the Labour Party and the Progressives, while United Future and New Zealand First had an agreement to support the government on confidence matters, while the Green Party abstained.\n\nIn most Westminster system nations, each constituency elects one member of parliament by simple plurality voting. This system heavily biases the vote towards increasing the number of seats of the top two parties and reducing the seats of smaller parties, a principle known in political science as Duverger's law, and thus minority governments are relatively uncommon. Advocates of this system see this as one of its advantages. A party with less than 40% of the popular vote can often win an outright majority of the seats. (For instance, in the 2005 UK General Election, the governing Labour party won by a majority of 66 seats in the House of Commons with only 35.2% of the popular vote.) If support for some parties is regionally concentrated, however, then Duverger's law applies separately to each region, and so it is quite possible for no party to be sufficiently dominant in each region so as to receive a majority of the seats. This was the situation in Canada in the 2004, 2006, and 2008 federal elections, with no party obtaining a majority due in part to the dominance of the Bloc Québécois in the province of Quebec.\n\nIn Westminster systems, in minority situations, the incumbent government usually has the first opportunity to attempt to win the confidence of the House. This is so even if the incumbents have fewer seats – the incumbent prime minister still holds his or her commission for the duration of the writ period and immediately following an election. If (s)he cannot form a government that commands the confidence of the House then it is expected that (s)he will resign that commission voluntarily – it is not considered acceptable for the Sovereign (or her representative) to revoke said commission unless the prime minister was acting in serious breach of constitutional protocol. Nevertheless, usually an incumbent government that loses its plurality in the House simply resigns, especially if the main opposition party is only a few seats short of having a majority or if it feels it has no chance of winning the support of enough members of smaller parties to win an initial confidence vote.\n\nNevertheless, the now-common practice of the party with the most seats forming the government has led to a widespread misconception among voters that a convention exists whereby the party with the most seats always gets to form the government. In fact, the most compelling reason for this practice is that the party with the most seats can survive confidence votes so long as the smaller party (or parties) simply abstain from confidence votes, whereas a governing party without a plurality in the House needs at least one other party to vote with it at all times (assuming the largest party will always vote no confidence, but that is almost certain to occur when they are denied the opportunity to govern). This means that in most situations, the party with the most seats has the best chance and the least complicated route to winning a confidence vote, regardless of its place on the political spectrum. At the Canadian federal level, in the four most recent of the five occasions a governing party lost the plurality without another winning a majority (1957, 1963, 1979, and 2006) the incumbent governments resigned rather than attempt to stay in power.\n\nWhatever party forms the government must either form a coalition with one or more other parties, or they must win some form of support from the other parties or independents so as to avoid no-confidence motions. Because of no-confidence motions, minority governments are frequently short-lived or fall before their term is expired. The leader of a minority government will also often call an election in hopes of winning a stronger mandate from the electorate. In Canada, for instance, federal minority governments last an average of 18 months.\n\nThere have been few occasions since 1900 when a single party has not commanded a parliamentary majority. The 2010–2015 Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition government was the first of its type in Britain since the National Government between 1931 and 1945.\n\nThe Labour Party, led by Harold Wilson, formed a minority government for seven months after the General Election of February 1974. That situation lasted until the prime minister called another election in October that year, following which the Labour Government obtained a tiny majority of three.\n\nThe following administration also became a minority government after the collapse of the Lib–Lab pact in 1977, and the then British Prime Minister James Callaghan's Government fell in March 1979 as the result of a vote of no confidence which was carried by a single vote.\n\nA minority Government held power in the UK between December 1996 and the general election in May 1997. The Conservative Party, led by John Major, had won the 1992 General Election with an absolute majority of 21 seats over all other parties. That majority was progressively whittled away through defections and by-elections defeats, the most notable of the latter including those in Newbury, South East Staffordshire and Wirral South, resulting in the eventual loss of the Major government's majority in Parliament. However, the Conservatives maintained support from Northern Ireland's Ulster Unionist Party and Democratic Unionist Party.\n\nWestminster and the British media tend to perceive minority governments as unstable and ineffective, possibly because recent examples of minority governments (Callaghan and Major) occurred as the result of governments in decline.\n\nIn the 2010 General Election, the Conservatives won the most seats and votes, but only a minority of seats in parliament. There was some discussion after the election of the possibility of creating a Conservative minority government and, because the then Prime Minister Gordon Brown had the first opportunity to form a government, there were also talks about creating some sort of alliance between the Labour Party, the Liberal Democrats and other smaller parties. However Brown waived his right, acknowledging that because the Conservative Party had won the largest number of seats in the House of Commons, it should have the first opportunity to form a government. Further discussions then led to the establishment of a formal coalition between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats, which enabled the formation of a majority government, because it was thought that would ensure more stability.\n\nIn the 2017 General Election, the Conservatives won the most seats and votes, but lost their majority in the House of Commons. The Conservative Party, led by Theresa May, formed a minority government, with 317 seats, on 9 June 2017. On 10 June, the Prime Minister's Office announced a deal with the Democratic Unionist Party which would see the DUP support the Conservative government on a confidence and supply arrangement. However, the DUP later announced that no such deal had been reached. This remained the case until 26 June 2017, when a deal was agreed and announced between the two parties.\n\nAfter the 2007 parliamentary elections, the Scottish National Party led by Alex Salmond constituted a minority government in the Scottish Parliament. This was because the SNP gained 47 seats out of 129 in the election, which was some way short of achieving an absolute majority of seats in the Scottish Parliament, but more than any other single party gained. The SNP were unable to negotiate a majority coalition government with any other party, but as no other combination of parties were able to agree a deal, the SNP chose to form a one-party minority government, with confidence and supply support from the Scottish Green Party and the Scottish Conservative Party.\n\nAfter the 2007 Assembly elections, the Welsh Labour Party led by Rhodri Morgan initially formed a minority government in the Welsh Assembly. This was because they gained 26 seats in the election, which was short of an absolute majority of seats in the Assembly. Whilst Labour were initially unable to form a coalition with the Liberal Democrats, a 'Rainbow Coalition' of the Conservative Party (UK), Liberal Democrats and Plaid Cymru failed to come to fruition. However, on 6 July 2007, Welsh Labour Party members voted for a coalition with Plaid, which was followed by a similar result from Plaid Cymru members the next day. As a result, the Welsh Assembly was controlled by the Labour-Plaid alliance with Rhodri Morgan as First Minister (up until his retirement in 2009 and subsequent replacement by Carwyn Jones as First Minister) and Plaid Leader Ieuan Wyn Jones as his deputy. After the 2011 Welsh General Election, Welsh Labour won 30 seats and entered into a new government, with a minority of 0. In 2016 Welsh Labour returned with 29 seats out of 30 and formed a minority government of 0 with the one remaining Liberal Democrat AM.\n\nDuring the history of Canadian politics there have been twelve minority governments on the federal level, in eleven separate minority parliaments (there were two minority governments during the life of 15th Parliament). One of these minorities, the 14th Parliament, was only a minority for half of its duration owing to floor-crossings and by-elections. The tenth and eleventh were elected twice in Canadian federal elections of 2006 and again in the 2008 election. There have also been numerous minority governments in provincial legislatures, particularly in provinces such as Ontario where there are strong third parties.\n\nAt the federal level, the party which has won the most seats in a general election has formed the government in all but the 15th Parliament. There have also been instances of parties which did not win a plurality forming the government at the provincial level (notably under David Peterson). For information about minority governments at both the federal and provincial levels see Minority governments in Canada.\n\nSince 1982 most of the coalition government in Denmark are in minority, that the minority government coalition need to make deals and reach support with the opposition parties.\n\nEstonia has had several minority governments. A minority cabinet can occur:\n\n\nAdditional support is possible also because MPs leaving a party faction are not allowed to officially join another faction until the next elections. A government can be a minority government either throughout its term or just a part of its term, usually the later part. A list of minority cabinets:\n\n\nCoalitions in the Netherlands are formed with the support from parliamentary parties, elected by proportional representation. Although very rare, minority governments can be formed during the formation period of a Dutch cabinet, if an election result makes a majority coalition impossible. More often, a minority government is formed when one of the cabinet's coalition partners withdraws its support, or when all ministers of a given parliamentary party resign. In these cases, the Prime Minister offers the full cabinet's resignation to the Dutch Monarch.\n\nAt this point, the Monarch may choose to dissolve Parliament and hold a general election. The cabinet continues to serve as \"demissionary\". A demissionary cabinet is not a minority government but a form of caretaker government, enjoying only limited powers until the new Parliament assembles.\n\nIf the Monarch does not dissolve Parliament, the remaining cabinet continues as a minority cabinet, in full possession of its powers. It can finish any legislation already before underpreparation, if Parliament passes it by majority vote; this necessitates the support of parties outside the government. Theoretically, early general elections need not be held, but they are often necessary in practice, since the coalition agreement no longer has parliamentary support.\n\nA third option is available to the Monarch: the formation of a new cabinet of different Parliamentary parties (which may include the defecting coalition partner). Elections are then held as scheduled at the end of the parliamentary term, since the Monarch does not dissolve parliament if an \"informateur\" has been able to negotiate a new coalition agreement.\n\nThe Netherlands had a minority government in 2010–2012: the First Rutte cabinet. The Second Rutte cabinet (2012–2017) consisted of the conservative liberal VVD and the social-democratic PvdA and had a majority in the \"House of Representatives\", but a plurality in the \"Senate\". On 11 October 2013, the cabinet reached a budgetary agreement with the social-liberal D66 and the smaller Christian parties CU and SGP. This provided the VVD/PvdA cabinet a single-seat majority in the \"Senate\" (\"see also\": Purple (government)).\n\nThe Irish parliamentary system broadly works on a simple majority system, where the Taoiseach is elected by the Dáil when they achieve 50% + 1 of the votes in favour of their nomination. The Taoiseach then appoints his or her own cabinet. Until the 1980s, Irish politics was dominated by two parties, either of whom could achieve a simple majority of seats in the Dáil and therefore elect their party leader as Taoiseach. Since the 1980s, the popularity of other parties has increased such that coalition governments are now typical and expected, with one of the two major parties being the \"Senior\" partner, and with one or more \"Junior\" partners ensuring that the coalition retains a majority in the Dáil.\n\nA minority government is formed when a party (or a coalition) secures agreement from one or more other parties or independents to support their nomination for Taoiseach and achieve majority support, but without any formal coalition agreement with the parties who supported the nomination. Support for bills and other items requiring a Dáil majority vote is then negotiated on a bill-by-bill basis.\n\nIn the event that no agreement can be reached to nominate an individual to lead a minority government, the previous Taoiseach (acting in a caretaker capacity) can then seek dissolution of the Dáil and call a new general election. However, this scenario has not yet occurred.\n\nThe last Dáil with a single-party simple majority government was in 1977. Minority governments have been relatively common in the short history of the Dáil, making up 14 of the 32 governments (44%) formed since the Dáil was founded, most were formed by the Fianna Fáil.\n\n\nThe period of 1987–2016 (29 years) is the longest that there has not been a minority government in charge.\n\nSweden had several minority governments in history, most of the time led by the Swedish Social Democratic Party, with the support of the Socialist Left Party. Centre-right Alliance which led by Moderate Party formed a minority coalition government from 2010 to 2014. The recent minority government is led by the Social Democrats and Greens, which only have one-third of seats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17093286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17093286", "title": "Navdanya", "text": "Navdanya\n\nNavdanya is an Indian-based non-governmental organisation which promotes biodiversity conservation, biodiversity, organic farming, the rights of farmers, and the process of seed saving. One of Navdanya's founders, and outspoken members, is Vandana Shiva, an environmental activist, physicist, and author. Navdanya began in 1984 as a program of the Research Foundation for science, Technology and Ecology (RFSTE), a participatory research initiative founded by the scientist and environmentalist Dr. Vandana Shiva, to provide direction and support to environmental activism. \"Navdanya\" means \"nine crops\" that represent India's collective source of food security.\nNavdanya is a member of the Terra Madre slow food movement.\nNavdanya is a network of seed keepers and organic producers spread across 16 states in India.\n\nNavdanya has helped set up 54 community seed banks across the country, trained over 500,000 farmers in \"food sovereignty\" and sustainable agriculture over the past two decades, and helped set up the largest direct marketing, fair trade organic network in the country. Navdanya has also set up a learning center, Bija Vidyapeeth (School of the Seed) on its biodiversity conservation and organic farm in Doon Valley, Uttranchal, north India.\n\nIt has criticised genetic engineering. Navdanya claims to be a women centred movement for the protection of biological and cultural diversity.\n\n20th Century farming revolutionised traditional food production methods by using cheap (but non renewable) hydrocarbon fuels and agricultural chemical products which make a major contribution to greenhouse gas emissions, blamed for causing climate change. These new methods together with cheap transport and fuel led to the optimisation and industrialization of food production.\n\nNavdanya's Seeds of Freedom campaign is intended to provide a source or exchange of diverse naturally occurring crop-seed.\n\nSince 1991 they have been campaigning against GM crops and food in India. Working with citizens' movements, grassroot organisations, NGOs and governments, they have made significant contributions to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the Biosafety Protocol.\n\nDuring the WTO Hong Kong Ministerial, Navdanya joined 740 other organisations in presenting their opposition to the WTO's stance on GMOs.\n\nRFSTE/ Navdanya started the campaign against biopiracy with the Neem Campaign in 1994 and mobilised 1,00,000 signatures against neem patents and filed a legal opposition against the USDA and WR Grace patent on the fungicidal properties of neem (no. 436257 B1) in the European Patent Office (EPO) at Munich, Germany.\n\nAlong with RFSTE, the International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements (IFOAM) of Germany and Ms. Magda Alvoet, former Green Member of the European Parliament were party to the challenge. The patent on Neem was revoked in May 2000 and it was reconfirmed on 8 March 2005 when the EPO revoked in entirety the controversial patent, and adjudged that there was \"no inventive step\" involved in the fungicide patent, thus confirming the 'prior art' of the use of Neem.\n\nThe next victory against \"biopiracy\" for Navdanya came in October 2004 when the European Patent Office in Munich revoked Monsanto's patent on the Indian variety of wheat \"Nap Hal\". This was the third consecutive victory on the IPR front after Neem and Basmati. Monsanto was assigned a patent (EP 0445929 B1) on wheat on 21 May 2003 by the European Patent Office in Munich under the simple title \"plants\". On January 27, 2004 Research Foundation for Science Technology and Ecology (RFSTE) along with Greenpeace and Bharat Krishak Samaj BKS) filed a petition at the European Patent Office (EPO), Munich, challenging the patent rights given to Monsanto on Indian Landrace of wheat, Nap Hal. The patent was revoked in October 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "49417443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49417443", "title": "Open Technology Fund", "text": "Open Technology Fund\n\nThe Open Technology Fund (OTF) is a U.S. Government funded program created in 2012 at Radio Free Asia to support global Internet freedom technologies. Its mission is to \"[utilize] available funds to support projects that develop open and accessible technologies to circumvent censorship and surveillance, and thus promote human rights and open societies\".\n\nThe Open Technology Fund was created in 2012. According to US journalist Eli Lake, the idea for the creation of the Open Technology Fund was the result of a policy advocated by Hillary Clinton when she was the U.S. Secretary of State. Lake has written that Clinton's policy was \"heavily influenced by the Internet activism that helped organize the green revolution in Iran in 2009 and other revolutions in the Arab world in 2010 and 2011\".\n\nIn September 2014, the Open Technology Fund worked with Google and Dropbox to create an organization called Simply Secure to help improve the usability of privacy tools.\n\nThe Open Technology Fund reports to Radio Free Asia's president, who in turn reports to the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG). The OTF is sustained by annual grants from the BBG, which originate from yearly U.S. Congressional appropriations for State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. According to the OTF, it works together with other publicly funded programs to fulfill a U.S. Congressional mandate to sustain and increase global freedom of information on the Internet with public funds.\n\n, the Open Technology Fund supports 83 projects, consisting of over 2 700 developers, technologists, and translators. Notable projects that the OTF has supported include The Tor Project, Open Whisper Systems, Cryptocat, GlobaLeaks, Tor2web, The Guardian Project, Citizen Lab, Commotion Wireless, Lantern, Serval Project, Briar, NoScript, Qubes OS, and Tails.\n\nThe OTF funds third party audits for all of the code related projects that it supports. It has also offered to fund audits of \"non-OTF supported projects that are in use by individuals and organizations under threat of censorship/surveillance\". Notable projects whose audits the OTF has sponsored include Cryptocat, Commotion Wireless, TextSecure, GlobaLeaks, MediaWiki, OpenPGP.js, Nitrokey, and Ricochet. The OTF also matched donations that were made toward the auditing of TrueCrypt. In December 2014, the OTF reported that it had funded more than 30 technology code audits over the past three years, identifying 185 privacy and security vulnerabilities in both OTF and non-OTF-funded projects.\n\nIn December 2015, The Tor Project announced that the OTF will be sponsoring a bug bounty program that will be coordinated by HackerOne. The program will initially be invite-only and will focus on finding vulnerabilities that are specific to The Tor Project's applications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3379016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3379016", "title": "Opposition (politics)", "text": "Opposition (politics)\n\nIn politics, the opposition comprises one or more political parties or other organized groups that are opposed, primarily ideologically, to the government (or, in American English, the administration), party or group in political control of a city, region, state or country. The degree of opposition varies according to political conditions – for example, across authoritarian and liberal systems where opposition may be either repressed or desired respectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "54906973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54906973", "title": "Palace Office (Oman)", "text": "Palace Office (Oman)\n\nThe Palace Office () transliterated: \"maktab al qasr\" is one of the most senior and therefore powerful ministries in the Sultanate of Oman. It is a government body that has most influence in national security and intelligence issues and the minister in charge has been the de facto national security advisor to the Sultan. The Palace Office also acts as a foreign liaison focus on all international intelligence and security matters.\n\nThe minister holding the post has the full title Minister of the Palace Office and Head of the Office of the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces. The Palace Office Minister currently serves as the chair of the Defence Council (on behalf of the Sultan). The Defence Council is an extra-parliamentary body tasked with coordinating the actions of the country's various security and armed forces. \n\nThe current Minister of the Palace Office is General Sultan bin Mohammed al Nua'mani (appointed in 2011); he had been Secretary General of the Royal Court Affairs. Nasser bin Hamoud al Kindi took over the latter post.\n\nThe Palace Office is located in Qurum. Its nearest government agency neighbor being the Internal Security Service (ISS), also based in Qurum (Post Code 112).\n\nAlthough the Palace Office as is may not have been established until the 1980s there is evidence that British advisors had begun the work of setting the office up as early as 1972. Certainly influential characters such as Brigadier Sir Timothy Landon and Sheilagh Bailey were critical in developing the early functionality of what would become the Palace Office. It was particularly important that the small nucleus of trusted advisors made arrangements to secure the ruler of Oman in the 1970s and establish contacts with neighboring states to ensure their cooperation.\n\nThe functions of the Minister of the Palace Office are:\n\nIt seems certain that the main National Security Challenges affecting Oman are internal rather than external and an attempted coup d'etat in 2005, which was easily quashed and street unrest in the spring of 2011 and later in 2012, all point to a simmering unrest with the status quo. \n\nIn early March 2011 HM Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said decided to replace two key ministers who were seen by many as not keeping in touch with young Omanis not benefiting from Oman's national advances. The long-standing favorite advisor of the Sultan General Ali bin Majid al Maamari was replaced by the relatively unknown and younger General Sultan bin Mohammed al Nua'mani. The current Minister's remit appears unchanged.\n\nThe Sultanate has also experienced challenges in maintaining its neutrality in the conflict in neighboring Yemen. It has been accused by its GCC partners of not being genuinely neutral and favoring the Houthi rebels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218168", "title": "Panarchy", "text": "Panarchy\n\nPanarchy (from pan and archy), coined by Paul Emile de Puydt in 1860, is a form of governance that would encompass all others. The Oxford English Dictionary lists the noun as \"chiefly poetic\" with the meaning \"a universal realm,\" citing an 1848 attestation by Philip James Bailey, \"the starry panarchy of space\". The adjective \"panarchic\" \"all-ruling\" has earlier attestations. In the twentieth century the term was re-coined separately by scholars in international relations to describe the notion of global governance and then by systems theorists to describe non-hierarchical organizing theories.\n\nIn his 1860 article \"Panarchy\" de Puydt, who also expressed support for laissez-faire economics, applied the concept to the individual's right to choose any form of government without being forced to move from their current locale. This is sometimes described as \"extra-territorial\" (or \"exterritorial\") since governments often would serve non-contiguous parcels of land. De Puydt wrote:\n\nDe Puydt described how such a system would be administered:\n\nDe Puydt’s definition of panarchy was expanded into a political philosophy of panarchism. It has been espoused by anarchist or libertarian-leaning individuals, including especially Max Nettlau in 1909 and John Zube.\n\nLe Grand E. Day and others have used the phrase \"multigovernment\" to describe a similar system. Another similar idea is Functional Overlapping Competing Jurisdictions (FOCJ) promoted by Swiss economists Bruno Frey and Reiner Eichenberger.\n\nIn a 1982 research, scholar David Hart argued that it is very possible that De Puydt was a reader of the work of the Belgian economist Gustave de Molinari who had already raised in 1849 the idea of \"government competence\" in policeand judges services through private defense agencies.\n\nJames P. Sewell and Mark B. Salter in their 1995 article \"Panarchy and Other Norms for Global Governance” define panarchy as “an inclusive, universal system of governance in which all may participate meaningfully.\" They romanticize the term by mentioning the “playful Greek god Pan of sylvan and pastoral tranquillity, overseer of forests, shepherd of shepherds and their flocks. It thus connotes an archetypal steward of biospheric well-being.\"\n\nDavid Ronfeldt and John Arquilla, in their work on Netwar, which they describe as an emergent form of low intensity conflict, crime, and activism, that: \"The design is a heterarchy, but also what might be termed a 'panarchy.'\"\n\nPaul B. Hartzog writes in \"Panarchy: Governance in the Network Age\": “Panarchy is a transdisciplinary investigation into the political and cultural philosophy of ‘network culture.’ The primary fields of relevance for panarchy are world politics (international relations), political philosophy/theory, and information technology. Panarchy also draws on insights from information/communications theory, economics, sociology, networks, and complex systems.\"\n\nIn Paul B. Hartzog's work, the term \"panarchy\" emerges at the intersection of three core concepts: 1) ecology and complex systems, 2) technology, and 3) politics. The \"pan\" of ecological thinking draws on the Greek-god Pan as a symbol for wild and unpredictable nature. The \"pan\" of technology refers to the Personal Area Network\n(a personal area network is the interconnection of information technology devices within the range of an individual person) that merges human beings into an interconnected global social web. The \"pan\" of politics refers to the \"inside/outside\" distinction, and how, in an era of global challenges and global governance, the frame-of-reference for a global social has no outside.\n\nSystems theory is an interdisciplinary field of science which studies the nature and processes of complex systems of the physical and social sciences, as well as in information technology. Lance Gunderson and C. S. Holling, in their book \"Panarchy: Understanding Transformations in Systems of Humans and Nature\" coopted the term, saying:\n\nThe publisher describes the book's theory thus:\n\nIn \"Panarchy\" Gunderson and Holling write:\n\n"}
{"id": "54799712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54799712", "title": "Qatar Fund for Development", "text": "Qatar Fund for Development\n\nThe Qatar Fund for Development (acronym: QFFD, ) is a government entity in the State of Qatar, which is responsible for Qatar's international development and foreign aid; it was established by Law 19 of 2002. The QFFD also coordinates Qatar’s charitable and development institutions and the Director-General is Khalifa bin Jassim Al Kuwari. In May 2017, the QFFD met with UNESCO to discuss the UNESCO Heritage Emergency Fund, which the QFFD helps fund, though other areas of cooperation were also incorporated into the discussion. Qatar has also pledged to help Rohingya refugees in Malaysia using the money from the QFFD.\n"}
{"id": "8261688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8261688", "title": "Quakers in the abolition movement", "text": "Quakers in the abolition movement\n\nThe Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) played a major role in the abolition movement against slavery in both the United Kingdom and in the United States of America. Quakers were among the first white people to denounce slavery in the American colonies and Europe, and the Society of Friends became the first organization to take a collective stand against both slavery and the slave trade, later spearheading the international and ecumenical campaigns against slavery.\n\nQuaker colonists began questioning slavery in Barbados in the 1670s, but first openly denounced it in 1688. In that year, four German settlers (the Lutheran Francis Daniel Pastorius and three Quakers) issued a protest from Germantown, close to Philadelphia in the newly founded American colony of Pennsylvania. This action, although seemingly overlooked at the time, ushered in almost a century of active debate among Pennsylvanian Quakers about the morality of slavery which saw energetic anti-slavery writing and direct action from several Quakers, including William Southeby, John Hepburn, Ralph Sandiford, and Benjamin Lay.\n\nDuring the 1740s and 50s, anti-slavery sentiment took a firmer hold. A new generation of Quakers, including John Woolman and Anthony Benezet, protested against slavery, and demanded that Quaker society cut ties with the slave trade. They were able to carry popular Quaker sentiment with them and, in the 1750s, Pennsylvanian Quakers tightened their rules, by 1758 making it effectively an act of misconduct to engage in slave trading. The London Yearly Meeting soon followed, issuing a ‘strong minute’ against slave trading in 1761. On paper at least, global politics would intervene. The American Revolution would divide Quakers across the Atlantic.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Quakers would be foremost in the Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade in 1787 which, with some setbacks, would be responsible for forcing the end of the British slave trade in 1807 and the end of slavery throughout the British Empire by 1838. \n\nIn the United States, Quakers would be less successful. In many cases, it was easier for Quakers to oppose the slave trade and slave ownership in the abstract than to directly oppose the institution of slavery itself, as it manifested itself in their local communities. While many individual Quakers spoke out against slavery after United States independence, local Quaker meetings were often divided on how to respond to slavery; outspoken Quaker abolitionists were sometimes sharply criticized by other Quakers.\n\nNevertheless, there were local successes for Quaker anti-slavery in the United States during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century. For example, the Pennsylvania Abolition Society, first founded in 1775, consisted primarily of Quakers; seven of the ten original white members were Quakers and 17 of the 24 who attended the four meetings held by the Society were Quakers. Throughout the nineteenth century, Quakers increasingly became associated with antislavery activism and antislavery literature: not least through the work of abolitionist Quaker poet John Greenleaf Whittier. North Carolina's Quakers often trusted their slaves to local meetings in order to de-facto free their slaves while the state's laws prohibited slaveowners from legally freeing their slaves; this practice ran from 1808 to 1829, after which trusteeship declined and many Quakers left the state to free their slaves in \"free states\". \n\nQuakers were also prominently involved with the Underground Railroad. For example, Levi Coffin started helping runaway slaves as a child in North Carolina. Later in his life, Coffin moved to the Ohio-Indiana area, where he became known as the President of the Underground Railroad. Elias Hicks penned the 'Observations on the Slavery of the Africans' in 1811 (2nd ed. 1814), urging the boycott of the products of slave labor. Many families assisted slaves in their travels through the Underground Railroad. Henry Stubbs and his sons helped runaway slaves get across Indiana. The Bundy family operated a station that transported groups of slaves from Belmont to Salem, Ohio.\n\nQuaker anti-slavery activism could come at some social cost. In the nineteenth-century United States, some Quakers were persecuted by slave owners and were forced to move to the west of the country in an attempt to avoid persecution. Nevertheless, in the main, Quakers have been noted and, very often, praised for their early and continued antislavery activity.\n\nColorful Quaker and slave trader Zephaniah Kingsley defended slavery benevolently practiced. He advocated, and personally practiced, the mixing of the black and the white \"races\" through marriage, which he claimed was hygienic, productive of healthy and attractive children, and a step towards integration of blacks and whitss. He also was strongly in favor of allowing free blacks, who, he claimed, strenthened a country. These views were tolerated in Spanish Florida, where he was a planter, but after Florida became a U.S. territory in 1821, Kingsley found it necessary to leave Florida for a plantation he purchased in Haiti (today in the Dominican Republic).\n\n"}
{"id": "169477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=169477", "title": "Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke", "text": "Regents of the Univ. of Cal. v. Bakke\n\nRegents of the University of California v. Bakke, 438 U.S. 265 (1978), was a landmark decision by the Supreme Court of the United States. It upheld affirmative action, allowing race to be one of several factors in college admission policy. However, the court ruled that specific racial quotas, such as the 16 out of 100 seats set aside for minority students by the University of California, Davis School of Medicine, were impermissible.\n\nAlthough the Supreme Court had outlawed segregation in schools, and had even ordered school districts to take steps to assure integration, the question of the legality of voluntary affirmative action programs initiated by universities remained unresolved. Proponents deemed such programs necessary to make up for past discrimination, while opponents believed they were illegal and a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. An earlier case that the Supreme Court had taken in an attempt to address the issue, \"DeFunis v. Odegaard\" (1974), was dismissed on procedural grounds.\n\nAllan P. Bakke (), an engineer and former United States Marine Corps officer, sought admission to medical school, but was rejected for admission by several due in part to his age. Bakke was in his early 30s while applying, and therefore considered too old by at least two institutions. After twice being rejected by the University of California, Davis, he brought suit in state court. The California Supreme Court struck down the program as violative of the rights of white applicants and ordered Bakke admitted. The U.S. Supreme Court accepted the case amid wide public attention.\n\nThe case fractured the court; the nine justices issued a total of six opinions. The judgment of the court was written by Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr.; two different blocs of four justices joined various parts of Powell's opinion. Finding diversity in the classroom to be a compelling state interest, Powell opined that affirmative action in general was allowed under the Constitution and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Nevertheless, UC Davis's program went too far for a majority of justices, and it was struck down and Bakke admitted. The practical effect of \"Bakke\" was that most affirmative action programs continued without change. Questions about whether the \"Bakke\" case was merely a plurality opinion or binding precedent were answered in 2003 when the court upheld Powell's position in a majority opinion in \"Grutter v. Bollinger\".\n\nIn \"Brown v. Board of Education\" (1954), the Supreme Court of the United States ruled segregation by race in public schools to be unconstitutional. In the following fifteen years, the court issued landmark rulings in cases involving race and civil liberties, but left supervision of the desegregation of Southern schools mostly to lower courts. Among other progressive legislation, Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI of which forbids racial discrimination in any program or activity receiving federal funding. By 1968, integration of public schools was well advanced. In that year, the Supreme Court revisited the issue of school desegregation in \"Green v. County School Board\", ruling that it was not enough to eliminate racially discriminatory practices; state governments were under an obligation to actively work to desegregate schools. The school board in \"Green\" had allowed children to attend any school, but few chose to attend those dominated by another race. In 1970, in \"Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education\", the Supreme Court upheld an order for busing of students to desegregate a school system.\n\nAlthough public universities were integrated by court decree, selective colleges and graduate programs, and the professions which stemmed from them, remained almost all white. Many African-Americans had attended inferior schools and were ill-prepared to compete in the admissions process. This was unsatisfactory to many activists of the late 1960s, who protested that given the African-American's history of discrimination and poverty, some preference should be given to minorities. This became a commonly held liberal position, and large numbers of public and private universities began affirmative action programs. Among these were the University of California, Davis School of Medicine (UC Davis or \"the university\"), which was founded in 1968 and had an all-white inaugural class. The faculty was concerned by this, and the school began a special admissions program \"to compensate victims of unjust societal discrimination\". The application form contained a question asking if the student wished to be considered disadvantaged, and, if so, these candidates were screened by a special committee, on which more than half the members were from minority groups. Initially, the entering class was 50 students, and eight seats were put aside for minorities; when the class size doubled in 1971, there were 16 seats which were to be filled by candidates recommended by the special committee. While nominally open to whites, no one of that race was admitted under the program, which was unusual in that a specific number of seats were to be filled by candidates through this program.\n\nThe first case taken by the Supreme Court on the subject of the constitutionality of affirmative action in higher education was \"DeFunis v. Odegaard\" (1974). Marco DeFunis, a white man, had twice been denied admission to the University of Washington School of Law. The law school maintained an affirmative action program, and DeFunis had been given a higher rating by admissions office staff than some admitted minority candidates. The Washington state trial court ordered DeFunis admitted, and he attended law school while the case was pending. The Washington Supreme Court reversed the trial court, but the order was stayed, and DeFunis remained in school. The U.S. Supreme Court granted review and the case was briefed and argued, but by then, DeFunis was within months of graduation. The law school stated in its briefs that even if it won, it would not dismiss him. After further briefing on the question of mootness, the Supreme Court dismissed the case, 5-4, holding that as DeFunis had almost completed his studies, there was no longer a case or controversy to decide. Justice William Brennan, in an opinion joined by the other three members of the minority, accused the court of \"sidestepping\" the issues, which \"must inevitably return to the federal courts and ultimately again to this court\".\n\nAllan Paul Bakke (born 1940), a 35-year-old white male, applied to twelve medical schools in 1973. He had been a National Merit Scholar at Coral Gables Senior High School, in Florida. He was accepted as an undergraduate at the University of Minnesota, deferring tuition costs by joining Naval ROTC. He graduated from the University of Minnesota with a grade-point average (GPA) of 3.51. In order to fulfill his ROTC requirements, he joined the Marine Corps and served four years, including a seven-month tour of duty in Vietnam as a commanding officer of an anti-aircraft battery. In 1967, having achieved the rank of captain, he was granted an honorable discharge. Bakke then worked as an engineer at NASA. He stated that his interest in medicine started in Vietnam, and increased at NASA, as he had to consider the problems of space flight and the human body there. But twelve medical schools rejected his application for admission.\n\nBakke had applied first to the University of Southern California and Northwestern University, in 1972, and both rejected him, making a point of his age, with Northwestern writing that it was above their limit. Medical schools at the time openly practiced age discrimination.\n\nBakke applied late to UC Davis in 1973 because his mother-in-law was ill. This delay may well have cost him admission: although his credentials were outstanding even among applicants not part of the special program, by the time his candidacy was considered under the school's rolling admissions process, there were few seats left. His application reflected his anxiety about his age, referring to his years of sacrifice for his country as a cause of his interest in medicine.\n\nBakke received 468 points out of a possible 500 on the admissions committee’s rating scale in 1973. Earlier in the year, a rating of 470 had won automatic admission with some promising applicants being admitted with lower scores. Bakke had a science GPA of 3.44 and an overall GPA of 3.46 after taking science courses at night to qualify for medical school. On the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT), Bakke scored in the 97th percentile in scientific knowledge, the 96th percentile in verbal ability, the 94th percentile in quantitative analysis, and the 72nd percentile in general knowledge. Bakke's MCAT score overall was 72; the average applicant to UC Davis scored a 69 and the average applicant under the special program a 33. In March 1973, Bakke was invited to UC Davis for an interview. Dr. Theodore West, who met with him, described Bakke as “a well-qualified candidate for admission whose main hardship is the unavoidable fact that he is now 33. … On the grounds of motivation, academic records, potential promise, endorsement by persons capable of reasonable judgments, personal appearance and decorum, maturity, and probable contribution to balance in the class, I believe Mr. Bakke must be considered as a very desirable applicant and I shall so recommend him.” About two months later in May 1973, Bakke received notice of his rejection.\n\nBakke complained to Dr. George Lowrey, chairman of the admissions committee at the medical school, about the special admissions program. At Lowrey's request, Assistant Dean Peter Storandt told Bakke his candidacy had come close and encouraged him to reapply. If he was not accepted the second time, \"he could then research the legal question. He had been a good candidate. I thought he'd be accepted and that would end the matter.\" Storandt also gave Bakke the names of two lawyers interested in the issue of affirmative action. The general counsel for the University of California said, \"I don't think Storandt meant to injure the university. It's simply an example of a non-lawyer advising on legal matters.\" Storandt stated, \"I simply gave Allan the response you'd give an irate customer, to try and cool his anger. I realized the university might be vulnerable to legal attack because of its quota, and I had the feeling by then that somebody somewhere would sue the school, but I surely didn't know this would be the case.\" Storandt was demoted and later left the university. According to Bernard Schwartz in his account of the \"Bakke\" case, Storandt was fired.\n\nAllan Bakke applied to UC Davis medical school again in 1974. He was interviewed twice: once by a student interviewer, who recommended his admission, and once by Dr. Lowrey, who in his report stated that Bakke \"had very definite opinions which were based more on his personal viewpoints than on a study of the whole problem … He was very unsympathetic to the concept of recruiting minority students.\" Lowrey gave Bakke a poor evaluation, the only part of his application on which he did not have a high score. He was rejected again, although minorities were admitted in both years with significantly lower academic scores through the special program. Not all minority applicants whose admission was recommended under the program gained entry—some were rejected by the admissions committee. This, however, did not affect the number of minority students to be admitted, sixteen. Although 272 white people between 1971 and 1974 had applied under this program, none had been successful; in 1974 the special admissions committee summarily rejected all white students who asked for admission under the program. Only one black student and six Latinos were admitted under the regular admissions program in that time period, though significant numbers of Asian students were given entry.\n\nAccording to a 1976 \"Los Angeles Times\" article, the dean of the medical school sometimes intervened on behalf of daughters and sons of the university's \"special friends\" in order to improve their chances. Among those who benefitted by Dean C. John Tupper's interventions (about five per year) was the son of an influential state assemblyman, who had not even filed an application. The special picks were ended by order of University of California President David S. Saxon in 1976. Bakke's lawyer deemed it impossible to tell if these picks caused Bakke not to be admitted, but according to an attorney who filed an \"amicus curiae\" brief on behalf of the National Urban League in support of affirmative action, the practice of dean's picks made the university reluctant to go into detail about its admission practices at trial, affecting its case negatively.\n\nOn June 20, 1974, following his second rejection from UC Davis, Bakke brought suit against the university's governing board in the Superior Court of California, Yolo County. He sought an order admitting him on the ground that the special admission programs for minorities violated the U.S. and California constitutions, and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act. UC Davis's counsel filed a request that the judge, F. Leslie Manker, find that the special program was constitutional and legal, and argued that Bakke would not have been admitted even if there had been no seats set aside for minorities. On November 20, 1974, Judge Manker found the program unconstitutional and in violation of Title VI, \"no race or ethnic group should ever be granted privileges or immunities not given to every other race.\" Manker ordered the medical school to disregard race as a factor, and to reconsider Bakke's application under a race-free system. After Manker entered final judgment in the case on March 7, 1975, both parties appealed, the university on March 20 because the program was struck down, and Bakke on April 17 because he was not ordered admitted.\n\nBecause of the important issues presented, the Supreme Court of California on June 26, 1975 ordered the appeal transferred to it, bypassing the intermediate appeals court. On March 19, 1976, the case was argued before the state supreme court. Nine \"amicus curiae\" briefs were filed by various organizations, the majority in support of the university's position. The California Supreme Court was considered one of the most liberal appellate courts, and it was widely expected that it would find the program to be legal. Nevertheless, on September 16, 1976, the court, in an opinion by Justice Stanley Mosk, upheld the lower-court ruling, 6–1. Mosk wrote that \"no applicant may be rejected because of his race, in favor of another who is less qualified, as measured by standards applied without regard to race\". Justice Matthew O. Tobriner dissented, stating that Mosk's suggestion that the state open more medical schools to accommodate both white and minority was unrealistic due to cost: \"It is a cruel hoax to deny minorities participation in the medical profession on the basis of such fanciful speculation.\" The court barred the university from using race in the admissions process and ordered it to provide evidence that Bakke would not have been admitted under a race-neutral program. When the university conceded its inability to do so in a petition for rehearing, the court on October 28, 1976 amended its ruling to order Bakke's admission and denied the petition.\n\nThe university requested that the U.S. Supreme Court stay the order requiring Bakke's admission pending its filing a petition asking for review. U.S. Supreme Court Justice William Rehnquist, as circuit justice for the Ninth Circuit (which includes California) granted the stay for the court in November 1976.\n\nThe university filed a petition for writ of certiorari in December 1976. The papers of some of the justices who participated in the \"Bakke\" case reveal that the case was three times considered by the court in January and February 1977. Four votes were needed for the court to grant certiorari, and it had at least that number each time, but was twice put over for reconsideration at the request of one of the justices. A number of civil rights organizations filed a joint brief as \"amicus curiae\", urging the court to deny review, on the grounds that the \"Bakke\" trial had failed to fully develop the issues—the university had not introduced evidence of past discrimination, or of bias in the MCAT. Nevertheless, on February 22, the court granted certiorari, with the case to be argued in its October 1977 term.\nThe parties duly filed their briefs. The university's legal team was now headed by former U.S. Solicitor General and Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox, who had argued many cases before the Supreme Court. Cox wrote much of the brief, and contended in it that \"the outcome of this controversy will decide for future generations whether blacks, Chicanos and other insular minorities are to have meaningful access to higher education and real opportunities to enter the learned professions\". The university also took the position that Bakke had been rejected because he was unqualified. Reynold Colvin, for Bakke, argued that his client's rights under the Fourteenth Amendment to equal protection of the laws had been violated by the special admission program. Fifty-eight \"amicus curiae\" briefs were filed, establishing a record for the Supreme Court that would stand until broken in the 1989 abortion case \"Webster v. Reproductive Health Services\". Future justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg signed the ACLU's brief; Marco deFunis, the petitioner in the 1974 case dismissed for mootness, wrote the brief for Young Americans for Freedom.\n\nIn addition to the various other \"amici\", the United States filed a brief through the Solicitor General, as it may without leave of court under the Supreme Court's rules. When consideration of \"Bakke\" began in the new administration of President Jimmy Carter, early drafts of the brief both supported affirmative action and indicated that the program should be struck down and Bakke admitted. This stance reflected the mixed support of affirmative action at that time by the Democrats. Minorities and others in that party complained, and in late July 1977, Carter announced that the government's brief would firmly support affirmative action. That document, filed October 3, 1977 (nine days before oral argument), stated that the government supported programs tailored to make up for past discrimination, but opposed rigid set-asides. The United States urged the court to remand the case to allow for further fact-finding (a position also taken by civil rights groups in their \"amicus\" briefs).\n\nWhile the case was awaiting argument, another white student, Rita Clancy, sued for admission to UC Davis Medical School on the same grounds as Bakke had. In September 1977, she was ordered admitted pending the outcome of the \"Bakke\" case. After \"Bakke\" was decided, the university dropped efforts to oust her, stating that as she had successfully completed one year of medical school, she should remain.\n\nOral argument in \"Bakke\" took place on October 12, 1977. There was intense public interest in the case; prospective attendees began to line up the afternoon before. The court session took two hours, with Cox arguing for the university, Colvin for Bakke, and Solicitor General Wade H. McCree for the United States. Colvin was admonished by Justice Byron White for arguing the facts, rather than the Constitution. Cox provided one of the few moments of levity during the argument when Justice Harry A. Blackmun wondered whether the set-aside seats could be compared to athletic scholarships. Cox was willing to agree, but noted that he was a Harvard graduate, and as for sporting success, \"I don't know whether it's our aim, but we don't do very well.\"\n\nBeginning the day after the argument, the justices lobbied each other through written memorandum. At a conference held among justices on October 15, 1977, they decided to request further briefing from the parties on the applicability of Title VI. The supplemental brief for the university was filed on November 16, and argued that Title VI was a statutory version of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment and did not allow private plaintiffs, such as Bakke, to pursue a claim under it. Bakke's brief arrived the following day. Colvin submitted that Bakke did have a private right of action, and that his client did not want the university to suffer the remedy prescribed under Title VI for discriminatory institutions—loss of federal funding—but wanted to be admitted. In November, Justice Blackmun left Washington to have prostate surgery at the Mayo Clinic.\n\nBlackmun's absence did not stem the flow of memos, notably one on November 22 from Justice Lewis Powell, analyzing the minority admissions program under the strict scrutiny standard often applied when government treats some citizens differently from others based on a suspect classification such as race. Concluding that the program did not meet the standard, and must be struck down, Powell's memorandum stated that affirmative action was permissible under some circumstances, and eventually formed much of his released opinion.\n\nAt the justices' December 9 conference, with Blackmun still absent, they considered the case. Counting heads, four justices (Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Justices Potter Stewart, Rehnquist, and John Paul Stevens) favored affirming the California Supreme Court's decision. Three (Justices Brennan, White, and Thurgood Marshall) wanted to uphold the program. Justice Blackmun had not yet weighed in. Powell stated his views, after which Brennan, hoping to cobble together a five-justice majority to support the program, or at least to support the general principle of affirmative action, suggested to Powell that applying Powell's standard meant that the lower court decision would be affirmed in part and reversed in part. Powell agreed.\n\nEven when Blackmun returned in early 1978, he was slow to make his position on \"Bakke\" known. It was not until May 1 that he circulated a memorandum to his colleagues's chambers, indicating that he would join Brennan's bloc, in support of affirmative action and the university's program. This meant that Powell was essential to either side being part of a majority. Over the following eight weeks, Powell fine-tuned his opinion to secure the willingness of each group to join part of it. The other justices began work on opinions that would set forth their views.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Bakke\" was announced on June 28, 1978. The justices penned six opinions; none of them, in full, had the support of a majority of the court. In a plurality opinion, Justice Powell delivered the judgment of the court. Four justices (Burger, Stewart, Rehnquist, and Stevens) joined with him to strike down the minority admissions program and admit Bakke. The other four justices (Brennan, White, Marshall, and Blackmun) dissented from that portion of the decision, but joined with Powell to find affirmative action permissible under some circumstances, though subject to an intermediate scrutiny standard of analysis. They also joined with Powell to reverse that portion of the judgment of the California Supreme Court that forbade the university to consider race in the admissions process.\n\nJustice Powell, after setting forth the facts of the case, discussed and found it unnecessary to decide whether Bakke had a private right of action under Title VI, assuming that was so for purposes of the case. He then discussed the scope of Title VI, opining that it barred only those racial classifications forbidden by the Constitution.\n\nTurning to the program itself, Powell determined that it was not simply a goal, as the university had contended, but a racial qualification—assuming that UC Davis could find sixteen minimally qualified minority students, there were only 84 seats in the freshman class open to white students, whereas minorities could compete for any spot in the 100-member class. He traced the history of the jurisprudence under the Equal Protection Clause, and concluded that it protected all, not merely African Americans or only minorities. Only if it served a compelling interest could the government treat members of different races differently.\n\nPowell noted that the university, in its briefs, had cited decisions where there had been race-conscious remedies, such as in the school desegregation cases, but found them inapposite as there was no history of racial discrimination at the University of California-Davis Medical School to remedy. He cited precedent that when an individual was entirely foreclosed from opportunities or benefits provided by the government and enjoyed by those of a different background or race, this was a suspect classification. Such discrimination was only justifiable when necessary to a compelling governmental interest. He rejected assertions by the university that government had a compelling interest in boosting the number of minority doctors, and deemed too nebulous the argument that the special admissions program would help bring doctors to underserved parts of California—after all, that purpose would also be served by admitting white applicants interested in practicing in minority communities. Nevertheless, Powell opined that government had a compelling interest in a racially diverse student body.\n\nIn a part of the opinion concurred in by Chief Justice Burger and his allies, Powell found that the program, with its set-aside of a specific number of seats for minorities, did discriminate against Bakke, as less restrictive programs, such as making race one of several factors in admission, would serve the same purpose. Powell offered the example (set out in an appendix) of the admissions program at Harvard University as one he believed would pass constitutional muster—that institution did not set rigid quotas for minorities, but actively recruited them and sought to include them as more than a token part of a racially and culturally diverse student body. Although a white student might still lose out to a minority with lesser academic qualifications, both white and minority students might gain from non-objective factors such as the ability to play sports or a musical instrument. Accordingly, there was no constitutional violation in using race as one of several factors.\n\nPowell opined that because the university had admitted that it could not prove that Bakke would not have been admitted even had there been no special admissions program, the portion of the California Supreme Court's decision ordering Bakke's admission was proper, and was upheld. Nevertheless, the state was entitled to consider race as one of several factors, and the portion of the California court's judgment which had ordered the contrary was overruled.\n\nBrennan delivered the joint statement of four justices: Marshall, White, Blackmun and himself. In verbally introducing their opinion in the Supreme Court courtroom, Brennan stated that the \"central meaning\" of the \"Bakke\" decision was that there was a majority of the court in favor of the continuation of affirmative action. In the joint opinion, those four justices wrote, \"government may take race into account when it acts not to demean or insult any racial group, but to remedy disadvantages cast on minorities by past racial prejudice\". They suggested that any admissions program with the intention of remedying past race discrimination would be constitutional, whether that involved adding bonus points for race, or setting aside a specific number of places for them.\n\nWhite issued an opinion expressing his view that there was not a private right of action under Title VI. Thurgood Marshall also wrote separately, recounting at length the history of discrimination against African-Americans, and concluding, \"I do not believe that anyone can truly look into America's past and still find that a remedy for the effects of that past is impermissible.\" Blackmun subscribed to the idea of color consciousness, declaring that, \"in order to get beyond racism, we must first take account of race. There is no other way. And in order to treat some persons equally, we must treat them differently. We cannot—we dare not—let the Equal Protection Clause perpetuate racial superiority.\"\n\nJustice Stevens, joined by Burger, Stewart and Rehnquist, concurring in part and dissenting in part in the judgment, found it unnecessary to determine whether a racial preference was ever allowed under the Constitution. A narrow finding that the university had discriminated against Bakke, violating Title VI, was sufficient, and the court was correct to admit him. \"It is therefore perfectly clear that the question whether race can ever be used as a factor in an admissions decision is not an issue in this case, and that discussion of that issue is inappropriate.\" According to Stevens, \"[t]he meaning of the Title VI ban on exclusion is crystal clear: Race cannot be the basis of excluding anyone from a federally funded program\". He concluded, \"I concur in the Court's judgment insofar as it affirms the judgment of the Supreme Court of California. To the extent that it purports to do anything else, I respectfully dissent.\"\n\nNewspapers stressed different aspects of \"Bakke\", often reflecting their political ideology. The conservative \"Chicago Sun-Times\" bannered Bakke's admission in its headline, while noting that the court had permitted affirmative action under some circumstances. \"The Washington Post\", a liberal newspaper, began its headline in larger-than-normal type, \"Affirmative Action Upheld\" before going on to note that the court had admitted Bakke and curbed quotas. \"The Wall Street Journal\", in a headline, deemed \"Bakke\" \"The Decision Everybody Won\". According to Oxford University Chair of Jurisprudence Ronald Dworkin, the court's decision \"was received by the press and much of the public with great relief, as an act of judicial statesmanship that gave to each party in the national debate what it seemed to want most\".\n\nAttorney General Griffin Bell, after speaking with President Jimmy Carter, stated, \"my general view is that affirmative action has been enhanced\", and that such programs in the federal government would continue as planned. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Chair Eleanor Holmes Norton told the media \"that the \"Bakke\" case has not left me with any duty to instruct the EEOC staff to do anything different\".\n\nHarvard Law School Professor Laurence Tribe wrote in 1979, \"the Court thus upheld the kind of affirmative action plan used by most American colleges and universities, and disallowed only the unusually mechanical—some would say unusually candid, others would say unusually impolitic—approach taken by the Medical School\" of UC Davis. Robert M. O'Neil wrote in the \"California Law Review\" the same year that only rigid quotas were foreclosed to admissions officers and even \"relatively subtle changes in the process by which applications were reviewed, or in the resulting minority representation, could well produce a different alignment [of justices]\". Law professor and future judge Robert Bork wrote in the pages of \"The Wall Street Journal\" that the justices who had voted to uphold affirmative action were \"hard-core racists of reverse discrimination\".\n\nAllan Bakke had given few interviews during the pendency of the case, and on the day it was decided, went to work as usual in Palo Alto. He issued a statement through attorney Colvin expressing his pleasure in the result and that he planned to begin his medical studies that fall. Most of the lawyers and university personnel who would have to deal with the aftermath of \"Bakke\" doubted the decision would change very much. The large majority of affirmative action programs at universities, unlike that of the UC Davis medical school, did not use rigid numerical quotas for minority admissions and could continue. According to Bernard Schwartz in his account of \"Bakke\", the Supreme Court's decision \"permits admission officers to operate programs which grant racial preferences—provided that they do not do so as blatantly as was done under the sixteen-seat 'quota' provided at Davis\".\n\nAllan Bakke, \"America's best known freshman\", enrolled at the UC Davis medical school on September 25, 1978. Seemingly oblivious to the questions of the press and the shouts of protesters, he stated only \"I am happy to be here\" before entering to register. When the university declined to pay his legal fees, Bakke went to court, and on January 15, 1980, was awarded $183,089. Graduating from the UC Davis medical school in 1982 at age 42, he went on to a career as an anesthesiologist at the Mayo Clinic and at the Olmsted Medical Group in Rochester, Minnesota.\n\nIn 1996, Californians by initiative banned the state's use of race as a factor to consider in public schools' admission policies. The university's Board of Regents, led by Ward Connerly, voted to end race as a factor in admissions. The regents, to secure a diverse student body, implemented policies such as allowing the top 4% of students in California high schools guaranteed admission to the University of California System—this, it was felt, would aid minority inner-city students.\n\nDworkin warned in 1978 that \"Powell's opinion suffers from fundamental weaknesses, and if the Court is to arrive at a coherent position, far more judicial work remains to be done than a relieved public yet realizes\". The Supreme Court has continued to grapple with the question of affirmative action in higher education. In the 2003 case of \"Grutter v. Bollinger\", it reaffirmed Justice Powell's opinion in \"Bakke\" in a majority opinion, thus rendering moot concerns expressed by lower courts that \"Bakke\" might not be binding precedent due to the fractured lineup of justices in a plurality opinion. The court's decision in the 2013 case of \"Fisher v. University of Texas\" made alterations to the standards by which courts must judge affirmative action programs, but continued to permit race to be taken into consideration in university admissions, while forbidding outright quotas.\n\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3119733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3119733", "title": "Right to property", "text": "Right to property\n\nThe right to property or right to own property (cf. ownership) is often classified as a human right for natural persons regarding their possessions. A general recognition of a right to private property is found more rarely and is typically heavily constrained insofar as property is owned by legal persons (i.e. corporations) and where it is used for production rather than consumption.\n\nA right to property is recognised in Article 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but it is not recognised in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights, in Protocol 1, article 1 acknowledges a right for natural and legal persons to \"peaceful enjoyment of his possessions\", subject to the \"general interest or to secure the payment of taxes\".\n\nThe right to property is one of the most controversial human rights, both in terms of its existence and interpretation. The controversy about the definition of the right meant that it was not included in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Controversy centres upon who is deemed to have property rights protected (e.g. human beings or also corporations), the type of property which is protected (property used for the purpose of consumption or production) and the reasons for which property can be restricted (for instance, for regulations, taxation or nationalisation in the public interest). In all human rights instruments, either implicit or express restrictions exist on the extent to which property is protected. Article 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) enshrines the right to property as follows: \nThe object of the right to property as it is usually understood nowadays consists of property already owned or possessed, or of property acquired or to be acquired by a person through lawful means. Not in opposition but in contrast to this, some proposals also defend a universal right to private property, in the sense of a right of every person to effectively receive a certain amount of property, grounded in a claim to Earth's natural resources or other theories of justice.\n\nThe African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) protects the right to property most explicitly in Article 14, stating: \n\nProperty rights are furthermore recognised in Article 13 of the ACHPR, which states that every citizen has the right to participate freely in the government of his country, the right to equal access to public services and \"the right of access to public property and services in strict equality of all persons before the law\". Article 21 of the ACHPR recognises the right of all peoples to freely dispose of their wealth and natural resources and that this right shall be exercised in the exclusive interest of the people, who may not be deprived of this right. Article 21 also provides that \"in case of spoliation the dispossessed people shall have the right to the lawful recovery of its property as well as to adequate compensation\".\n\nWhen the text of the UDHR was negotiated, other states in the Americas argued that the right to property should be limited to the protection of private property necessary for subsistence. Their suggestion was opposed, but was enshrined in the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, which was negotiated at the same time and adopted one year before the UDHR in 1948. Article 23 of the declaration states: \n\nThe definition of the right to property is heavily influenced by Western concepts of property rights, but because property rights vary considerably in different legal systems it has not been possible to establish international standards on property rights. The regional human rights instruments of Europe, Africa and the Americas recognise the right to protection of property to varying degrees.\n\nThe American Convention on Human Rights (ACHR) recognises the right to protection of property, including the right to \"just compensation\". The ACHR also prohibits usury and other exploitation, which is unique amongst human rights instruments. Article 21 of the ACHR states: \n\nAfter failed attempts to include the right to protection of property in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), European states enshrined the right to protection of property in Article 1 of Protocol I to the ECHR as the \"right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions\", where the right to protection of property is defined as such: \n\nTherefore European human rights law recognises the right to peaceful enjoyment of property, makes deprivation of possessions subject to certain conditions and recognises that states can balance the right to peaceful possession of property against the public interest. The European Court of Human Rights has interpreted \"possessions\" to include not only tangible property, but also economic interests, contractual agreements with economic value, compensation claims against the state and public law related claims such as pensions. The European Court of Human Rights has held that the right to property is not absolute and states have a wide degree of discretion to limit the rights. As such, the right to property is regarded as a more flexible right than other human rights. States' degree of discretion is defined in \"Handyside v. United Kingdom\", heard by the European Court of Human Rights in 1976. Notable cases where the European Court of Human Rights has found the right to property having been violated include \"Sporrong and Lonnroth v. Sweden\", heard in 1982, where Swedish law kept property under the threat of expropriation for an extended period of time. The highest economic compensation following a judgment of the Strasbourg Court on this matter was given (1,3 million euro) in case \"Beyeler v. Italy\".\n\nProperty rights are also recognised in the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination which states in Article 5 that everyone has the right to equality before the law without distinction as to race, colour and national or ethnic origin, including the \"right to own property alone as well as in association with others\" and \"the right to inherit\". The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women recognises the property rights in Article 16, which establishes the same right for both spouses to ownership, acquisition, management, administration, enjoyment and disposition of property and Article 15, which establishes women’s' right to conclude contracts.\n\nProperty rights are also enshrined in the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees and the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families. These international human rights instruments for minorities do not establish a separate right to property, but prohibit discrimination in relation to property rights where such rights are guaranteed.\n\nThe right to private property was a crucial demand in early quests for political freedom and equality and against feudal control of property. Property can serve as the basis for the entitlements that ensure the realisation of the right to an adequate standard of living and it was only property owners which were initially granted civil and political rights, such as the right to vote. Because not everybody is a property owner, the right to work was enshrined to allow everybody to attain an adequate standard of living. Today, discrimination on the basis of property ownership is commonly seen as a serious threat to the equal enjoyment of human rights by all and non-discrimination clauses in international human rights instruments frequently include property as a ground on the basis of which discrimination is prohibited (see the right to equality before the law). The protection of private property may come into conflict with economic, social and cultural rights and civil and political rights, such as the right to freedom of expression. To mitigate this the right to property is commonly limited to protect the public interest. Many states also maintain systems of communal and collective ownership. Property rights have frequently been regarded as preventing the realisation of human rights for all, through for example slavery and the exploitation of others. Unequal distribution of wealth often follows line of sex, race and minorities, therefore property rights may appear to be part of the problem, rather than as an interest that merits protection. Property rights have been at the centre of recent human rights debates on land reform, the return of cultural artifacts by collectors and museums to indigenous peoples and the popular sovereignty of peoples over natural resources.\n\nIn Europe, the notion of private property and property rights emerged in the Renaissance as international trade by merchants gave rise to mercantilist ideas. In 16th-century Europe, Lutheranism and the Protestant Reformation advanced property rights using biblical terminology. The Protestant work ethic and views on man's destiny came to underline social views in emerging capitalist economies in early modern Europe. The right to private property emerged as a radical demand for human rights \"vis-a-vis\" the state in 17th-century revolutionary Europe, but in the 18th and 19th centuries the right to property as a human right became subject of intense controversy.\n\nThe arguments advanced by the Levellers during the English Civil War on property and civil and political rights, such as the right to vote, informed subsequent debates in other countries. The Levellers emerged as a political movement in mid-17th century England in the aftermath of the Protestant Reformation. They believed that property which had been earned as the fruit of one's labour was sacred under the Bible's commandment \"thou shall not steal\". As such, they believed that the right to acquire property from one's work was sacred. Levellers' views on the right to property and the right not to be deprived of property as a civil and political right were developed by the pamphleteer Richard Overton. In \"An Arrow against all Tyrants\" (1646), Overton argued: To every individual in nature is given an individual property by nature not to be invaded or usurped by any. For everyone, as he is himself , so he has a self propertiety, else he could not be himself; and of this no second may presume to deprive of without manifest violation and affront to the very principles of nature of the rules of equity and justice between man and man. Mine and thine cannot be, except this. No man has power over my rights and liberties, and I over no man.\n\nThe views of the Levellers, who enjoyed support amongst small-scale property-owners and craftsmen, were not shared by all revolutionary parties of the English Civil War. At the 1647 General Council, Oliver Cromwell and Henry Ireton argued against equating the right to life with the right to property. They argued that doing so would establish the right to take anything that one may want, irrespective of the rights of others. The Leveller Thomas Rainborough responded, relying on Overton's arguments, that the Levellers required respect for others' natural rights. The definition of property and whether it was acquired as the fruit of one's labour and as such a natural right was subject to intense debate because the right to vote depended on property ownership. Political freedom was at the time associated with property ownership and individual independence. Cromwell and Ireton maintained that only property in freehold land or chartered trading rights gave a man the right to vote. They argued that this type of property ownership constituted a \"take in society\", which entitles men to political power. In contrast, Levellers argued that all men who are not servants, alms-recipients or beggars should be considered as property owners and be given voting rights. They believed that political freedom could only be secured by individuals, such as craftsmen, engaging in independent economic activity.\n\nLevellers were primarily concerned with the civil and political rights of small-scale property owners and workers, whereas the Diggers, a smaller revolutionary group led by Gerard Winstanley, focused on the rights of the rural poor who worked on landed property. The Diggers argued that private property was not consistent with justice and that the land that had been confiscated from the Crown and Church should be turned into communal land to be cultivated by the poor. According to the Diggers, the right to vote should be extended to all and everybody had the right to an adequate standard of living. With the Restoration of the English monarchy in 1660, all confiscated land returned to the Crown and Church. Some property rights were recognised and limited voting rights were established. The ideas of the Levellers on property and civil and political rights remained influential and were advanced in the subsequent 1688 Glorious Revolution, but restrictions on the right to vote based on property meant that only a fraction of the British population had the suffrage. In 1780 only 214,000 property-owning men were entitled to vote in England and Wales, less than 3 percent of the population of 8 million. The Reform Act 1832 restricted the right to vote to men who owned property with an annual value of £10, giving approximately 4 percent of the adult male population the right to vote. The reforms of 1867 extended the right to vote to approximately 8 percent. The working class (which increased dramatically with the Industrial Revolution) and industrialists remained effectively excluded from the political system.\n\nThe English philosopher John Locke (1632–1704) developed the ideas of property, civil and political rights further. In his \"Second Treatise on Civil Government\" (1689), Locke proclaimed that \"everyman has a property in his person; this nobody has a right to but himself. The labor of his body and the work of his hand, we may say, are properly his\". He argued that property ownership derives from one's labor, though those who do not own property and only have their labor to sell should not be given the same political power as those who owned property. Labourers, small-scale property owners and large-scale property owners should have civil and political rights in proportion to the property they owned. According to Locke, the right to property and the right to life were inalienable rights and that it was the duty of the state to secure these rights for individuals. Locke argued that the safeguarding of natural rights, such as the right to property, along with the separation of powers and other checks and balances, would help to curtail political abuses by the state.\n\nLocke's labor theory of property and the separation of powers greatly influenced the American Revolution and the French Revolution. The entitlement to civil and political rights, such as the right to vote, was tied to the question of property in both revolutions. American revolutionaries, such as Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, opposed universal suffrage, advocating votes only for those who owned a \"stake\" in society. James Madison argued that extending the right to vote to all could lead in the right to property and justice being \"overruled by a majority without property\". While it was initially suggested to establish the right to vote for all men, eventually the right to vote in the nascent United States was extended to white men who owned a specified amount of real estate and personal property. French revolutionaries recognised property rights in Article 17 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (1791), which stated that no one \"may be deprived of property rights unless a legally established public necessity required it and upon condition of a just and previous indemnity\". Articles 3 and 6 declared that \"all citizens have the right to contribute personally or through their representatives\" in the political system and that \"all citizens being equal before [the law], are equally admissible to all public offices, positions and employment according to their capacity, and without other distinction than that of virtues and talents\". However, in practice the French revolutionaries did not extend civil and political rights to all, although the property qualification required for such rights was lower than that established by the American revolutionaries.\n\nAccording to the French revolutionary Abbé Sieyès, \"all the inhabitants of a country should enjoy the right of a passive citizen... but those alone who contribute to the public establishment are like the true shareholders in the great social enterprise. They alone are the true active citizens, the true members of the association\". Three months after the Declaration had been adopted, domestic servants, women and those who did not pay taxes equal to three days of labor were declared \"passive citizens\". Sieyes wanted to see the rapid expansion of commercial activities and favoured the unrestricted accumulation of property. In contrast, Maximilien Robespierre warned that the free accumulation of wealth ought to be limited and that the right to property should not be permitted to violate the rights of others, particularly poorer citizens, including the working poor and peasants. Robespierre's views were eventually excluded from the French Constitution of 1793 and a property qualification for civil and political rights was maintained.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24346010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24346010", "title": "Russian language in Belarus", "text": "Russian language in Belarus\n\nThe Russian language in Belarus is one of the two official languages (the other being Belarusian). Being dominant in the media, education and other areas of public life, Russian is \"de facto\" the main language of the country.\n\nIn 1995, according to the results of the 1995 Belarusian Referendum, the Russian language was declared the second official language. According to the Belarus Census (2009), 41.5% of the Belarusian population declared Russian as their mother language and 70.2% declared Russian \"the language spoken at home\" (the second language-related question of the Census).\n\n"}
{"id": "98050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98050", "title": "Ruud Lubbers", "text": "Ruud Lubbers\n\nRudolphus Franciscus Marie \"Ruud\" Lubbers (; 7 May 1939 – 14 February 2018) was a Dutch politician and diplomat who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 4 November 1982 to 22 August 1994 and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from 1 January 2001 until 20 February 2005.\n\nLubbers was a member of the board of directors of Hollandia Corporate for 10 years before being asked to be the Minister of Economic Affairs in the cabinet of Joop den Uyl; he took office on 11 May 1973. After the 1977 election, he was elected as to the House of Representatives, serving from 8 June 1977 until 8 September 1977 and again from 22 December 1977 until 4 November 1982. On 7 November 1978, Lubbers was selected to serve as parliamentary leader for the Christian Democratic Appeal, serving from 7 November 1978 until 10 June 1981 and again from 24 August 1981 until 4 November 1982. After the 1982 election, Prime Minister Dries van Agt unexpectedly announced his retirement from national politics and stood down as Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal on 13 October 1982, with Lubbers elected to succeed him on 25 October 1982, becoming the youngest Prime Minister in Dutch history.\n\nThe First Lubbers cabinet was formed by a coalition with the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD), with Lubbers taking office as Prime Minister on 4 November 1982. With the following 1986 election, Lubbers, as \"lijsttrekker\" (top candidate), won nine more seats, the coalition retained its majority, and a cabinet formation resulted in a continuation of the policies with the Second Lubbers cabinet. For the 1989 election, Lubbers, once more as Lijsttrekker, won the same number of seats as the previous election, and a coalition formation with the Labour Party (PvdA) was formed that resulted in the Third Lubbers cabinet. On 29 January 1994, Lubbers announced his retirement from national politics and resigned as Leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal. Lubbers remained Prime Minister until the First Kok cabinet was installed on 22 August 1994; he had served for nearly 12 years.\n\nAfter his premiership, Lubbers semi-retired from active politics and served as a visiting professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and the Tilburg University from 1995 until 2001. Lubbers served as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from 1 January 2001 until 20 February 2005, and finally retired from active politics at the age of sixty-five. Following the end of his active political career, Lubbers occupied numerous seats on supervisory boards on international non-governmental organisations (World Wide Fund for Nature, Earth Charter Initiative, Club of Rome, Energy Research Centre of the Netherlands).\n\nLubbers was known for his abilities as a team leader and consensus builder. During his premiership, his cabinets were responsible for rebuilding the Dutch economy after the recession in the 1980s, stimulating sustainable development, reforming social security, and reducing the deficit. Lubbers was also active as a conservation and humanitarian activist and as an advocate in promoting sustainable development. He continued to comment on political affairs as a statesman. On 31 January 1995, he was granted the honorary title of Minister of State. He remains the youngest and longest-serving Prime Minister of the Netherlands.\n\nRudolphus Franciscus Marie Lubbers was born on 7 May 1939 in Rotterdam in the Province of South Holland. He studied economics at the Erasmus University Rotterdam, and was a student of the first Nobel Prize in Economics laureate Jan Tinbergen. As suggested by the title of his 1962 thesis – \"The influence of differing productivity trends in various countries on the current account of the balance of payments\" – his main interest was in monetary affairs. He originally planned an academic career, but was compelled by family circumstances to join the management of Lubbers' Construction Workshops and Machinery Fabricators Hollandia B.V.\n\nFrom 11 May 1973 to 19 December 1977, Ruud Lubbers was Minister of Economic Affairs in the Den Uyl-government and a member of the Catholic People's Party (KVP). He was an effective, if sometimes somewhat bad-tempered minister. He chose to return to Parliament on the formation of the Van Agt-government in 1977, becoming senior deputy parliamentary leader of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA), the alliance between the KVP and the other two main Christian parties. His career got an unexpected boost when the leader of the parliamentary faction of the CDA, Willem Aantjes, had to resign in 1978 because accusations that he had served in the Germanic-SS during the Second World War. Lubbers succeeded him and suddenly found himself in a powerful political position.\n\nIn 1982, after the general election won by Prime Minister Dries van Agt, a similar thing happened when Van Agt suddenly announced he would not serve for a third term. Lubbers took over the post. He was the youngest prime minister in Dutch history; he had turned 43 only six months earlier. Major aspects of his time in office included extensive cutbacks in public spending, the launch of far-reaching deregulation and privatisation programs, and a massive demonstration in The Hague (1983) against the planned installation in the Netherlands of nuclear-armed U.S. cruise missiles (which was cancelled after all due to arms reduction talks between the US and the Soviet Union).\n\nAfter leaving office in 1994, Lubbers was put forward as a candidate for the head of NATO, but the U.S. vetoed his appointment. He was on the advisory board of the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF), where he was regularly involved in meetings regarding the financial and monetary system.\n\nLubbers was regarded by many during his time in office as an ideological heir to Margaret Thatcher. One of his campaign slogans was: \"Meer markt, minder overheid\" (more market, less government).\n\nIn the follow-up of the Earth Summit in 1992, Lubbers engaged with the Earth Charter Initiative in cooperation with Mikhail Gorbachev and Maurice Strong. The Earth Charter document was launched in the Peace Palace in The Hague in June 2000. Lubbers was an active member of the international Earth Charter Commission and reached out, especially to youth in the Netherland, with the message of the Earth Charter for a sustainable and peaceful world.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2000, he taught Globalization Studies at Tilburg University in the Netherlands and at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University in the United States. He was also vice-chairman of the Independent World Commission on the Oceans and chair of Globus, the Institute for Globalization and Development based in Tilburg.\n\nAt the end of the year 2000, Lubbers was appointed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan to succeed Sadako Ogata as UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).\n\nFrom 1 January 2001, Lubbers headed the UNHCR, which comprised over 5,000 employees who work across the globe, and which was concerned with an estimated 21 million refugees and internally displaced in over 120 countries worldwide. During his tenure, the number of refugees worldwide decreased by almost 22%, from 21.8 million in 2001 to close to 17.1 million at the beginning of 2004.\n\nLubbers also favoured a generous refugee policy for the Netherlands, and he was critical of the Foreign Citizens Law (Vreemdelingenwet). He also stabilised the UNHCR's financial situation and greatly increased the financial means for the sheltering of refugees.\n\nHe annually donated some $300,000 to the refugee agency since he assumed his post in 2001, thereby covering his own $167,000 annual salary and travel expenses.\n\nIn May 2004, Lubbers was accused by Cynthia Brzak, an American UNHCR employee, of sexual harassment following a meeting in his office that was attended by two other UNHCR staff members. The complaint was reported in the media, prompting Lubbers to inform UNHCR staff about the accusation. On this occasion, he denied any wrongdoing and rejected the allegation against him. On 2 June 2004, the United Nations Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS), which was tasked with investigating the accusation, sent its report to UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. In its public annual report to the UN Secretary-General (presented to the UN General Assembly), the OIOS reported concerning the case that it had \"submitted a report to the Secretary-General supporting the allegations and recommended that appropriate actions be taken accordingly.\"\n\nLubbers responded to the OIOS report in a letter setting out to (a) deny acts of sexual harassment or abuse took place; (b) establish that such evidence of the alleged misconduct as is said to exist is insufficient and flawed; and (c) conclude that the report itself would appear to be based on an irregular statutory basis and also flawed by errors of law and reasoning.\"\n\nLubbers asked Max van der Stoel, former High Commissioner on National Minorities, to comment on the confidential report. He concluded that \"the OIOS report is deficient in objectivity and impartiality.\" He added \"that the only two other persons in the room did not provide evidence confirming the version given by the complainant.\" Furthermore, he accused UN officials of leaking information to the press and recommended that an investigation of the leaks be undertaken.\n\nThe Secretary-General reviewed the report and the responses of the High Commissioner and the senior manager to the report, and decided that the complaint could not be substantiated by the evidence and therefore closed the matter.\" He is also reported to have consulted with Stephen Schwebel, an American judge and former President of the International Court of Justice. The Secretary-General failed to order an investigation of the deliberate leaking by OIOS itself to the media as recommended by Max van der Stoel.\n\nIn February 2005, the case was in the news again when the British daily newspaper \"The Independent\" obtained a copy of the OIOS report and, accompanied by an article by Kate Holt, published its contents. Among other things, the report stated that: the allegation against Lubbers is substantiated in that Lubbers did engage in unwanted physical contact with the complainant, a subordinate female staff member. New allegations that came to OIOS's attention during the investigation, were also examined and indicate a pattern of sexual harassment by Lubbers, OIOS is also of the view that Lubbers abused his authority as High Commissioner by his intense, pervasive and intimidating attempts to influence the outcome of this Investigation.\n\nLubbers met with the Secretary-General on 18 February 2005, and resigned as High Commissioner on Sunday, 20 February 2005, stating to the press: \"For more than four years I gave all my energy to UNHCR. To be frank, despite all my loyalty, insult has now been added to injury and therefore I resign as High Commissioner.\" The Secretary-General's office issued a statement the same day which stated that the High Commissioner's resignation was in the best interests of the UNHCR. In his letter of resignation, Lubbers stated that his resignation constituted no expression of guilt, but that he had become the victim of smearing, adding that he had resigned \"in the interest of the organisation\". In October 2005, Annan reiterated that he had come to the conclusion that \"the evidence did not support the accusation\" but that, because of ongoing media-pressure, Lubbers' resignation was in the best interests of the UNHCR. In a letter to UNHCR staff, Annan wrote: \"My decision to accept his resignation should not be interpreted as a finding of guilt\".\n\nDuring a farewell meeting for Lubbers as High Commissioner for Refugees, he received from Acting High Commissioner Wendy Chamberlin the first annual UNHCR Achievement Award for exceptional services to UNHCR and for the world's refugees.\n\nIn a formal statement, Netherlands Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende called the departure of Lubbers \"bitter\", since the complaint against him had been dismissed as unsustainable.\n\nHandling of the UNHCR/SC-UK 2002 report on sexual exploitation in the aid sector in West Africa\n\nThree years prior to the controversy over the sexual harassment case, Ruud Lubbers was criticised for his mis-handling of the UNHCR/SC-UK 2002 which uncovered the widespread sexual exploitation of refugee children by aid workers and peacekeepers in three West African countries (Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone). The study team which had encountered these findings unexpectedly whilst conducting a broader assessment documented 67 allegations implicating 40 aid agencies and several peacekeeping battalions, and often involving humanitarian workers and peacekeepers exchanging meagre aid supplies (biscuits, soap, plastic sheeting) for sex with children.\nRuud Lubbers' response was to deny these findings, discredit the authors and excuse these behaviours; for example in a CNN interview on 8 May 2002, Lubbers was heard to deny the problem in the face of CNN's own research which confirmed the problem existed and was taken to task by the interviewer for dismissing these exploitative relationships \"inter alia\" as 'romances'. He was roundly criticised by his own staff for that interview. Despite repeated attempts by Lubbers to lead a negative campaign against the report, the international community and governments in particular, took the allegations seriously and passed a UN General Assembly resolution A/RES/57/306, 'Investigation into sexual exploitation of refugees by aid workers in West Africa' in May 2003, requiring the UN to take action at the highest level to tackle such abuses. This led to the UN Secretary-General’s Bulletin, 'Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse' in October 2003, and an endorsement of the Inter-agency standing Committee's working group on sexual abuse and exploitation which had already been set up a year earlier in June 2002 in response to the report.\n\nAfter the fall of the Second Balkenende cabinet, Lubbers became the \"informateur\" for the formation of the demissionary interim Third Balkenende cabinet.\n\nFor the 2010 Dutch cabinet formation, after coalition meetings between People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, Labour Party, Democrats 66, and GreenLeft failed to form a new Purple government, Lubbers was asked again to become Informateur tho seek possibilities for a new coalition.\n\nOn 10 October 1962, Lubbers married Ria Hoogeweegen (born 12 November 1940) and had two sons and one daughter, Paul, Bart and Heleen.\n\nLubbers died in Rotterdam on 14 February 2018, at the age of 78. of natural causes Among the world leaders who offered condolences were former President of the Soviet Union Mikhail Gorbachev, Prime Minister of Russia and former President of Russia Dmitry Medvedev, Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel, Secretary-General of the United Nations and former Prime Minister of Portugal and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees António Guterres, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi and President of the European Commission and former Prime Ministers of Luxembourg Jean-Claude Juncker. His ceremonial funeral was held on 20 February 2018 and was attended by Prime Minister Mark Rutte and all living former Prime Ministers Dries van Agt, Wim Kok and Jan Peter Balkenende.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "589443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=589443", "title": "Sanford Berman", "text": "Sanford Berman\n\nSanford Berman (born October 6, 1933) is a librarian (specifically, a cataloger). He is known for radicalism, promoting alternative viewpoints in librarianship, and acting as a proactive information conduit to other librarians around the world. His vehicles of influence include public speaking, voluminous correspondence, and unsolicited \"care packages\" delivered via the U.S. Postal Service. Will Manley, columnist for the American Library Association (ALA) publication, \"American Libraries,\" has praised Berman: \"He makes you proud to be a librarian.\"\n\nBerman was born in Chicago, Illinois. He attended University of California at Los Angeles, where he earned a BA in Political Science with minors in Sociology, Anthropology, and English, and where he was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After acquiring an MS in Library Science from The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C., Berman began work as a librarian. He worked for the U.S. Army Special Services Libraries, West Germany (1962–1966) where he helped edit an underground press GI magazine entitled, 'Yin/Yang', Schiller College, Kleiningersheim, West Germany (1966–1967); University of California at Los Angeles Research Library (1967–1968), where he rescued back runs of \"I. F. Stone's Weekly\" from the trash bin. University of Zambia Library, Lusaka, Zambia (1968–1970); Makerere Institute of Social Research, Makerere University Library, Kampala, Uganda (1971–1972); and Hennepin County Library, Minnesota (1973–1999).\n\nBerman has been a leading critic of biased headings in the Library of Congress Subject Headings. His 1971 publication, \"Prejudices and Antipathies: A Tract on the LC Subject Heads Concerning People\" sparked a movement to correct biased subject headings. Berman listed 225 headings with proposed alterations, additions, or deletions and cross-references to \"more accurately reflect the language used in addressing these topics, to rectify errors of bias, and to better guide librarians and readers to material of interest\". Berman stated, \"The fact that a number of meanings may be assigned to a given word explains why messages are subject to misinterpretation and why our communication is open to misunderstandings.\" He asserted that messages and therefore subject headings must convey an idea in a fashion free from prejudice. Berman realized the continued use of biased subject headings would significantly limit the ability of a patron to access materials in the collection. Berman also thought the use of language in headings should be clear, concise, and reflect the current use of everyday people rather than only scientific or technical terms. Overall, the use of common language in subject headings would enable prompt retrieval of materials by the end user.\n\nBerman also openly criticized centrally performed cataloging and standard cataloging tools that supported bias in subject headings. He stated, \"[O]ur national cataloging products and services can't be completely trusted and should not be accepted automatically nor uncritically by anyone who genuinely believes that cataloging should make material more rather than less accessible and retrievable.\" Cataloging that was outrightly erroneous or inadequate, rendered material inaccessible even though it was in the collection. Berman thought poor cataloging was a serious form of censorship. Libraries were supposed to oppose censorship and provide the widest possible spectrum of cultural, social, economic, political, religious, and sexual information. With this in mind, Berman indicated local libraries should make a conscious effort to describe accurately all materials in the catalog for a patron. A considerable amount of conscious effort meant including \"public notes\" to clarify unfamiliar concepts for patrons. The public notes would let a patron know whether or not an item would suit the information needs. Furthermore, Berman opposed the practice of not cataloging all important aspects of works. Patrons cannot access materials when they have not been fully catalogued.\n\nThe spark of Berman's cataloging revolution was the inclusion in Library of Congress Subject Headings (LCSH) of the term \"kaffir\", which he came across while working in Zambia: \"Berman was told by offended black fellow-workers that calling someone a kafir was similar to being called a \"nigger\" in America\" (Pendergrast). This motivated him to systematically address subject heading bias in his work at Hennepin County Library and in writing \"Prejudices and Antipathies: a Tract on the LC Subject Heads Concerning People\". The work, published in two editions, examines racism, sexism, Christocentrism, and other biases inherent in the LCSH. Berman also is known for his role in encouraging the Library of Congress to drop such archaic headings as \"Water Closet\" in favor of contemporary terminology.\n\nWith other Minnesota librarians, as well as those nationally and internationally, Berman is known for promoting activist librarianship in which personal ideals entailing social justice are part and parcel of professional work. Thanks to this advocacy the American Library Association's official policy recognizes key role of librarians in addressing social ills. \n\nWith librarian James P. Danky, Berman has been the editor of \"Alternative Library Literature\", (1982–2001) a biennial compilation of alternative essays on librarianship from a wide variety of other sources. Berman's other titles include \"The Joy of Cataloging\" and \"Worth Noting\". He is the original radical librarian; his followers refer to themselves as \"Sandynistas\" or guerrilla cataloguers. He was a founding member of a group known as the \"Revolting Librarians\", who published a manifesto about library-related issues.\n\nHe is the founder of the American Library Association's Hunger, Homelessness, and Poverty Task Force, a division of The Social Responsibilities Round Table, which he also co-founded. During recent years he has written and lectured on the failure of ALA and American libraries to help the poor and homeless. In June 2005 he gave the Jean E. Coleman Library Outreach Lecture at the annual ALA conference, dedicated to the founder of OLOS.\n\nDuring the last six months of 2005, working with the assistance of Steve Fesenmaier, Berman convinced the Library of Congress to create many new subject headings, including: \"American Dream\", \"Plutocracy\", \"West Virginia Mine Wars, 1897-1921\", \"The Battle of Blair Mountain, 1921\", and several others. \n\nThe Sanford Berman papers are part of the American Library Association (ALA) Archives held by the University of Illinois Library. \n\nHaving retired in 1999, Berman continues to solicit the Library of Congress for additions and modifications to the LCSH system. Since 2005, he has led an effort to honor American labor leaders Mary Harris \"Mother\" Jones and Eugene Debs with commemorative postage stamps.In 2013 McFarland & Company published a collection of his \"Unabashed Librarian\" columns as a book called, \"Not in My Library\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11252063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11252063", "title": "Satoyama", "text": "Satoyama\n\nThe concept of satoyama has several definitions. The first definition is the management of forests through local agricultural communities, using coppicing. During the Edo era, young and fallen leaves were gathered from community forests to use as fertilizer in wet rice paddy fields. Villagers also used wood for construction, cooking and heating. More recently, satoyama has been defined not only as mixed community forests, but also as entire landscapes that are used for agriculture. According to this definition, satoyama contains a mosaic of mixed forests, rice paddy fields, dry rice fields, grasslands, streams, ponds, and reservoirs for irrigation. Farmers use the grasslands to feed horses and cattle. Streams, ponds, and reservoirs play an important role in adjusting water levels of paddy fields and farming fish as a food source.\n\nPopulation decline in villages has been a significant driving factor in the disappearance of satoyama from the Japanese landscape. Economic growth from 1955 to 1975 created significant social and economic gaps between cities and villages and led to the depopulation of mountain villages, where life was made difficult by natural conditions such as steep slopes, landslides, and snowfall. Ownership patterns have also been a factor. Shared ownership of satoyama forests near villages has been common since the beginning of the 19th century. These forests were logged for economic considerations and the construction of houses. Because forests near villages have been cut down, old-growth forests today (including beech forests at high elevations) are often located far from villages. Inhabitants use wood from their private forests and conifer plantations for fuel. By the 1960s, satoyama were utilized as rice fields, plowed fields, shifting cultivation, grasslands, thatch fields, secondary forests for fuel, and giant bamboo forests.\n\nVarious habitat types for wildlife have been provided by mixed satoyama landscape as a result of the Japanese traditional agricultural system that also facilitates the movement of wildlife between a variety of habitats. The migration of wild animals can occur between ponds, rice paddies, grasslands, forests, and also from one village to another. Ponds, reservoirs, and streams in particular play a significant role in the survival of water dependent species such as dragonflies, and fireflies. In the early stages of their life cycle, they spend most of their time in water. Deciduous oaks such as \"Quercus acutissima\" and \"Quercus serrata\" are planted by farmers to maintain deciduous broad-leaf trees. Succession to dense and dark laurel forest is prevented by farmers that cut down these trees for firewood and charcoal every 15 to 20 years. Many plant and animal species are able to live in these deciduous forests because of traditional management practices.\n\nSatoyama have been disappearing due to the drastic shift in natural resources from charcoal and firewood to oil and the change from compost to chemical fertilizer. Also, the problem of aging in Japanese society can cause the disappearance of satoyama because there are fewer people who can work in satoyama which are considered as intermediate disturbance on forests such as coppicing and harvesting trees for timber and charcoal, cutting shrubs for firewood and collecting litter as compost. These human impacts can help the success of the forest occur. As the final causality of the disappearing of satoyama, pine dominated secondary forests in satoyama were increasingly destroyed since pine wilt disease devastated pine forests in the 1970s.\n\nThe disappearance of satoyama has led to threats in many wildlife that inhabit these areas. For example, the species \"Niphanda fusca\", a butterfly that can be found in satoyama landscapes, has become endangered partly due to the degradation of this ecosystem. This butterfly inhabits early stages of succession, so the progression of these ecosystems into later stages has caused the loss of a habitat for the butterflies. \"N. fusca\" is listed in the Japan Red List as endangered – there has been around a 39% decrease in their records in prefectures.\n\nThroughout the 80s and 90s, the satoyama conservation movement was implemented in Japan. As of 2001, there are more than 500 environmental groups that work for the conservation of satoyama. Because of their efforts, satoyama has become more prevalent in Japanese landscapes.\n\nThe Satoyama Initiative was established at UNESCO headquarters in Paris in 2009 as a global effort to realize \"societies in harmony with nature\" through the recognition and promotion of satoyama landscapes and similar landscapes around the world as a good model for conservation of biodiversity and human well-being. In 2010, the Satoyama Initiative was recognized in Decision X/32 of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP) as \"a potentially useful tool to better understand and support human-influenced natural environments for the benefit of biodiversity and human well-being\" and \"consistent and in harmony with the Convention\". The International Partnership for the Satoyama Initiative was also launched at the same CBD COP meeting and taken note of in the Decision as \" one mechanism to carry out activities identified by the Satoyama Initiative including collecting and analysing case-studies, distilling lessons, and promoting research on different practices of sustainable use of biological resources, as well as increasing awareness and supporting on-the-ground projects and activities in human-influenced natural environments\".\n\nThe satoyama of Saitama Prefecture have been illustrated in anime with great precision and artistic attention to detail in the very popular film, \"My Neighbor Totoro\", by Studio Ghibli, under the direction of the studio's head and founder, Hayao Miyazaki. The prominence of the satoyama as environment for the story has stirred popular interest in the regions, and encouraged conservation efforts in recent times, in large part thanks to this film.\n\nDavid Attenborough also narrated a one-hour program called \"Satoyama\" for NHK in 2004.\n\nThe Japanese idol company Hello! Project Launched a new show called Hello! SATOYAMA Life. Hello! SATOYAMA Life is a TV show showcasing the members of Hello! Project, including Morning Musume, Berryz Koubou, ℃-ute, Mano Erina, S/mileage, and Mitsui Aika. Hello! SATOYAMA Life is based on agriculture and nature. Different girls are selected to take a camera around and film various topics about agriculture and nature. The show is aired on TV Tokyo.\n\nThe Japanese culture and lifestyle television show \"Begin Japanology\" aired on NHK World featured a full episode on Satoyama in 2009.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41684", "title": "Security", "text": "Security\n\nSecurity is freedom from, or resilience against, potential harm (or other unwanted coercive change) from external forces. Beneficiaries (technically referents) of security may be persons and social groups, objects and institutions, ecosystems, and any other entity or phenomenon vulnerable to unwanted change by its environment. \n\nSecurity mostly refers to protection from hostile forces, but it has a wide range of other senses: for example, as the absence of harm (e.g. freedom from want); as the presence of an essential good (e.g. food security); as resilience against potential damage or harm (e.g. secure foundations); as secrecy (e.g. a secure telephone line); as containment (e.g. a secure room or cell); and as a state of mind (e.g. emotional security).\n\nThe term is also used to refer to acts and systems whose purpose may be to provide security: (e.g. security forces; security guard; cyber security systems; security cameras; remote guarding).\n\nThe word 'secure' entered the English language in the 16th century. It is derived from Latin \"securus\", meaning freedom from anxiety: \"se\" (without) + \"cura\" (care, anxiety).\n\nA security referent is the focus of a security policy or discourse; for example, a referent may be a potential beneficiary (or victim) of a security policy or system.\n\nSecurity referents may be persons or social groups, objects, institutions, ecosystems, or any other phenomenon vulnerable to unwanted change by the forces of its environment. The referent in question may combine many referents, in the same way that, for example, a nation state is composed of many individual citizens.\n\nThe security context is the relationships between a security referent and its environment. From this perspective, security and insecurity depend first on whether the environment is beneficial or hostile to the referent, and also how capable is the referent of responding to its/their environment in order to survive and thrive.\n\nThe means by which a referent provides for security (or is provided for) vary widely. They include, for example:\n\nAny action intended to provide security may have multiple effects. For example, an action may have wide benefit, enhancing security for several or all security referents in the context; alternatively, the action may be effective only temporarily, or benefit one referent at the expense of another, or be entirely ineffective or counterproductive.\n\nApproaches to security are contested and the subject of debate. For example, in debate about national security strategies, some argue that security depends principally on developing protective and coercive capabilities in order to protect the security referent in a hostile environment (and potentially to project that power into its environment, and dominate it to the point of strategic supremacy). Others argue that security depends principally on building the conditions in which equitable relationships can develop, partly by reducing antagonism between actors, ensuring that fundamental needs can be met, and also that differences of interest can be negotiated effectively.\n\nThe table shows some of the main domains where security concerns are prominent.\nIT realm\n\nPolitical\n\nMonetary\n\nThe range of security contexts is illustrated by the following examples (in alphabetical order):\n\nComputer security, also known as cybersecurity or IT security, refers to the security of computing devices such as computers and smartphones, as well as computer networks such as private and public networks, and the Internet. The field has growing importance due to the increasing reliance on computer systems in most societies. It concerns the protection of hardware, software, data, people, and also the procedures by which systems are accessed. The means of computer security include the physical security of systems and security of information held on them.\n\nCorporate security refers to the resilience of corporations against espionage, theft, damage, and other threats. The security of corporations has become more complex as reliance on IT systems has increased, and their physical presence has become more highly distributed across several countries, including environments that are, or may rapidly become, hostile to them.\n\nEcological security, also known as environmental security, refers to the integrity of ecosystems and the biosphere, particularly in relation to their capacity to sustain a diversity of life-forms (including human life). The security of ecosystems has attracted greater attention as the impact of ecological damage by humans has grown.\n\nFood security refers to the ready supply of, and access to, safe and nutritious food. Food security is gaining in importance as the world's population has grown and productive land has diminished through overuse and climate change.\n\nHome security normally refers to the security systems used on a property used as a dwelling (commonly including doors, locks, alarm systems, lighting, fencing); and personal security practices (such as ensuring doors are locked, alarms activated, windows closed etc.)\n\nHuman security is the name of an emerging paradigm which, in response to traditional emphasis on the right of nation states to protect themselves, has focused on the primacy of the security of people (individuals and communities). The concept is supported by the United Nations General Assembly, which has stressed \"the right of people to live in freedom and dignity\" and recognized \"that all individuals, in particular vulnerable people, are entitled to freedom from fear and freedom from want\".\n\nNational security refers to the security of a nation state, including its people, economy, and institutions. In practice, state governments rely on a wide range of means, including diplomacy, economic power, and military capabilities.\n\nSince it is not possible to know with precision the extent to which something is 'secure' (and a measure of vulnerability is unavoidable), perceptions of security vary, often greatly. For example, a fear of death by earthquake is common in the United States (US), but slipping on the bathroom floor kills more people; and in France, the United Kingdom and the US there are far fewer deaths caused by terrorism than there are women killed by their partners in the home.\n\nAnother problem of perception is the common assumption that the mere presence of a security system (such as armed forces, or antivirus software) implies security. For example, two computer security programs installed on the same device can prevent each other from working properly, while the user assumes that he or she benefits from twice the protection that only one program would afford.\n\nSecurity theater is a critical term for measures that change perceptions of security without necessarily affecting security itself. For example, visual signs of security protections, such as a home that advertises its alarm system, may deter an intruder, whether or not the system functions properly. Similarly, the increased presence of military personnel on the streets of a city after a terrorist attack may help to reassure the public, whether or not it diminishes the risk of further attacks.\n\nCertain concepts recur throughout different fields of security:\n\n"}
{"id": "1981100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981100", "title": "Social Creed (Methodist)", "text": "Social Creed (Methodist)\n\nThe Social Creed originated to express Methodism's outrage over the miserable lives of the millions of workers in factories, mines, mills, tenements and company towns. It was adopted by the Methodist Episcopal Church, the first denomination in Christendom to adopt an official \"Social Creed\". As a part of United Methodist social principles, United Methodist congregations are encouraged to regularly reflect upon the creed and use it in worship services. \n\nInfluenced by the Social Gospel movement and the Progressive politics of early 20th century America, the Church wrote and adopted the creed in 1908. It has been altered through the years, and still appears in \"The Book of Discipline of the United Methodist Church\", following the \"Social Principles\" section.\n\nThe current Social Creed as it appears in the 2008 Book of Discipline, ¶ 166.\n\nThe Methodist Episcopal Church stands: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "168622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168622", "title": "Social reality", "text": "Social reality\n\nSocial reality is distinct from biological reality or individual cognitive reality, representing as it does a phenomenological level created through social interaction and thereby transcending individual motives and actions. The product of human dialogue, social reality may be considered as consisting of the accepted social tenets of a community, involving thereby relatively stable laws and social representations. Radical constructivism would cautiously describe social reality as the product of uniformities among observers (whether or not including the current observer themselves).\n\nThe problem of social reality has been treated exhaustively by philosophers in the phenomenological tradition, particularly Alfred Schütz, who used the term \"social world\" to designate this distinct level of reality. Within the social world, Schütz distinguished between social reality that could be experienced directly (\"umwelt\") and a social reality beyond the immediate horizon, which could yet be experienced if sought out. In his wake, ethnomethodology explored further the unarticulated structure of our everyday competence and ability with social reality.\n\nPreviously, the subject had been addressed in sociology as well as other disciplines. For example, Émile Durkheim stressed the distinct nature of \"the social kingdom. Here more than anywhere else the idea is the reality\". Herbert Spencer had coined the term \"super-organic\" to distinguish the social level of reality above the biological and psychological.\n\nJohn Searle has used the theory of speech acts to explore the nature of social/institutional reality, so as to describe such aspects of social reality which he instances under the rubrics of \"marriage, property, hiring, firing, war, revolutions, cocktail parties, governments, meetings, unions, parliaments, corporations, laws, restaurants, vacations, lawyers, professors, doctors, medieval knights, and taxes, for example\".\n\nSearle argued that such institutional realities interact with each other in what he called \"systematic relationships (e.g., governments, marriages, corporations, universities, armies, churches)\" to create a multi-layered social reality.\n\nFor Searle, language was the key to the formation of social reality because \"language is precisely designed to be a self-identifying category of institutional facts\"; i.e., a system of publicly and widely accepted symbols which \"persist through time independently of the urges and inclinations of the participants.\"\n\nThere is a debate in social theory about whether social reality exists independently of people's involvement with it, or whether (as in social constructionism) it is only created by the human process of ongoing interaction. \n\nPeter L. Berger argued for a new concern with the basic process of the social construction of reality. Berger stated that the social construction of reality was a process made up of three steps: externalization, objectivation and internalization. In similar fashion, post-Sartrians like R. D. Laing stress that, \"once certain fundamental structures of experience are shared, they come to be experienced as objective entities...they take on the force and character of partial autonomous realities, with their own way of life\". Yet at the same time, Laing insisted that such a socially real grouping \"can be nothing else than the multiplicity of the points of view and actions of its members...even where, through the interiorization of this multiplicity as synthesized by each, this synthesized multiplicity becomes ubiquitous in space and enduring in time\".\n\nThe existence of a social reality independent of individuals or the ecology would seem at odds with the views of perceptual psychology, including those of J. J. Gibson, and those of most ecological economics theories.\n\nScholars such as John Searle argue on the one hand that \"a socially constructed reality presupposes a reality independent of all social constructions\". At the same time, he accepts that social realities are humanly created, and that \"the secret to understanding the continued existence of institutional facts is simply that the individuals directly involved and a sufficient number of members of the relevant communities must continue to recognize and accept the existence of such facts\".\n\nFreud saw a child's induction into social reality as consolidated with the passing of the Oedipus complex and the internalisation of the parents: \"the same figures who continue to operate in the super-ego as the agency we know as conscience...also belong to the real external world. It is from there that they were drawn; their power, behind which lie hidden all the influences of the past and of tradition, was one of the most strongly-felt manifestations of reality\".\n\nLacan clarified the point by stressing that this was \"a highly significant moment in the transfer of powers from the subject to the Other, what I call the Capital Other...the field of the Other – which, strictly speaking, is the Oedipus complex\". Lacan considered that \"the Oedipus complex...superimposes the kingdom of culture on that of nature\", bringing the child into the Symbolic Order.\n\nWithin that order, Lacanians consider that \"institutions, as \"signifying practices\", are much more extensive structures than romantic notions allow and they thus implicate us in ways which narrower definitions cannot recognize...exceed any intersubjective intention or effect\". In similar fashion, Searle asserts that \"institutional power – massive, pervasive, and typically invisible – permeates every nook and cranny of our social lives...the invisible structure of social reality\".\n\nIf one accepts the validity of the idea of social reality, scientifically, it must be amenable to measurement, something which has been explored particularly in relation to trust. \"Trust is...part of a community's social capital, as Francis Fukuyama argues, and has deep historical and cultural roots\".\n\nTheories of the measurement of trust in the sociological community are usually called theories of social capital, to emphasize the connection to economics, and the ability to measure outputs in the same manner.\n\nOne aspect of social reality is the principle of the \"big lie\", which states that an outrageous untruth is easier to convince people of than a less outrageous truth. Many examples from politics and theology (e.g., the claim that the Roman Emperor was in fact a \"god\") demonstrate that this principle was known by effective propagandists from early times, and continues to be applied to this day. The propaganda model of Noam Chomsky and Edward S. Herman supports the \"big lie\" thesis with more specifics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3500860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3500860", "title": "Soli Sorabjee", "text": "Soli Sorabjee\n\nSoli Jehangir Sorabjee, AM (born 9 March 1930) is an Indian jurist and former Attorney-General of India. He has been honored with Padma Vibhushan for his defense of the freedom of expression and the protection of human rights. Sorabjee has held several offices in organizations of national and international repute.\n\nSoli Sorabjee was born on 9 March 1930 in Bombay. He studied at St. Xavier's College, Mumbai and Government Law College, Mumbai, was admitted to the bar in 1953. At Government Law College, he was awarded the Kinloch Forbes Gold Medal in Roman Law and Jurisprudence (1952).\n\nIn 1971, Sorabjee was designated Senior Advocate of the Supreme Court of India. He served as Solicitor-General of India from 1977 to 1980. He was appointed Attorney-General of India on 7 April 1998, a post he held until 2004.\n\nIn March 2002, Soli Sorabjee was awarded the Padma Vibhushan for his defense of the freedom of expression and the protection of human rights. He worked on the Citizen's Justice Committee which represented \"pro bono \"the 1984 anti-Sikh riots victims.\n\nIn March 2006 he was appointed an Honorary Member of the Order of Australia (AM), \"for service to Australia-India bilateral legal relations\".\n\nSome of the other important cases he has appeared for are: Keshavananda Bharati, Maneka Gandhi, S.R. Bommai, I.R. Coelho, etc. He recently appeared in the case of B.P. Singhal, where the Apex Court held that Governors could not be dismissed without due cause.\n\nSoli J. Sorabjee was a close friend and colleague of Nanabhoy (\"Nani\") Palkhivala. Sorabjee's daughter, Zia Mody, is also a lawyer and partner at AZB & Partners, one of the leading law firms in India. Zia Mody is the author of the book \"10 Judgements that Changed India\". Sorabjee has a granddaughter, named Anjali Mody.\n\nSorabjee holds several offices in organizations of national and international repute.\n\nHe is the chairman of Transparency International and Convenor of the Minority Rights Group. He has served as Special Rapporteur to the United Nations Human Rights Commission since 1997, a member of the United Nations Subcommission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities since 1998. Sorabjee served as member of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague from 2000 to 2006.\n\nSoli J. Sorabjee is also President of the United Lawyers Association, Vice-President of the Human Rights Committee of the International Bar Association, Vice-President of the Commonwealth Lawyers Association, Executive Committee member of the International Association of Constitutional Lawyers and member of the Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament Law of the International Law Association. He is also a Patron of the Media Legal Defence Initiative, a UK-based charity that provides legal aid and assistance to journalists and news media organizations around the world, supports training in media law and promotes the exchange of information, litigation tools and strategies for lawyers working on media freedom cases.\n\nSorabjee has written a number of publications to his credit:\nHe also writes columns for the Indian Express.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54665555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54665555", "title": "Stockholm Center for Freedom", "text": "Stockholm Center for Freedom\n\nThe Stockholm Center for Freedom (SCF) is a non-profit organization founded in 2017 by Turkish journalists that fled to or were exiled to Sweden after the 2016 Turkish coup. The group is mainly focused on issues related to human rights and press freedom in Turkey, although it reports on other countries as well. It has issued a number of reports in English and Turkish on the human rights situation in Turkey. \n\n"}
{"id": "14298161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14298161", "title": "Undervote", "text": "Undervote\n\nAn undervote occurs when the number of choices selected by a voter in a contest is less than the minimum number allowed for that contest or when no selection is made for a single choice contest.\n\nIn a contested election, an undervote can be construed as active voter disaffection; a voter engaged enough to cast a vote without the willingness to give the vote to any candidate. An undervote can be intentional for purposes including protest votes, tactical voting, or abstention. Alternately undervotes can be unintentional and caused by many factors including poor ballot design.\n\nUndervotes combined with overvotes (known as residual votes) can be an academic indicator in evaluating the accuracy of a voting system when recording voter intent.\n\n"}
{"id": "14897676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14897676", "title": "Union of Communist Parties – Communist Party of the Soviet Union", "text": "Union of Communist Parties – Communist Party of the Soviet Union\n\nThe Union of Communist Parties – Communist Party of the Soviet Union (; СКП–КПСС; UPC–CPSU) is a federation of communist parties in the post-Soviet states founded in 1993.\n\nGennady Zyuganov has been the organisation's chairman since 2001. He replaced Oleg Shenin, who split off a part of the UCP–CPSU as the \"Communist Party of the Soviet Union\".\n\nThe structure of the UCP-CPSU consists of 18 of the communist parties of the former Soviet Union:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17573439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17573439", "title": "Voter invitation card", "text": "Voter invitation card\n\nA voter invitation card, or voter notification card, or notice of election card, is an informational leaflet, usually of the size of a postcard, which requests voters to attend the elections and which generally contains information regarding elections, place and time of voting, contact details of the electoral commission. Having certain artistic and undoubtedly historic merits, invitations to vote are collectibles.\n\nThe USSR voter cards are often called \"All come to vote\" cards () because during the Soviet Union period they inevitably carried an inscription, a slogan \"All come to vote\". One side of such voter invitation cards usually was artistically illustrated, while the other (reverse) side contained information. The text on such voter cards during the Soviet time carried invariable components: words \"Dear comrade _____________. Please be reminded that on Sunday …\"; and an appeal to come and vote for candidates of the electoral bloc of communists and independents. Voter invitation cards were sent on behalf of \"trustee persons of the constituency election campaign conference of workers' representatives\", campaign team, and were always characterized by electoral campaign propaganda, requesting to vote for the candidates of the electoral bloc of communists and independents.\n\nIn Russia voter invitation cards are no longer electoral campaign propaganda. Their function is only to inform of elections, time of voting and location of the polling station, and more often than not contain only text without any images.\n\n"}
