{"id": "2819024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2819024", "title": "1731 English cricket season", "text": "1731 English cricket season\n\nThis article reviews what is known of the 1731 cricket season in England. Details have survived of 31 top-class matches, thirty played eleven-a-side and one single wicket. Match reports in the newspapers were increasingly common and tended to contain more detail, sometimes including the names of patrons and players. London's Tim Coleman was named in the report of a minor match in which he was playing, and referred to as \"the famous Tim Coleman\".\n\nThe most dramatic match of the season was the one at Richmond Green on Monday, 23 August. It ended in a riot and it is believed that the 2nd Duke of Richmond conceded defeat after the match was originally declared a draw. Of greater significance, it is the earliest match for which the team totals were recorded and have been preserved, rather than simply who won the wager.\n\n\"July\". A single wicket match was played at Maidstone between two officers of the Royal Horse Guards, Captain Beak and Lieutenant Coke. It was for a \"considerable sum of money\" and won by Captain Beak after three hours \"very hard played\". Waghorn stated that it was the first military match he found during his researches.\n\n\"July\" (exact date unknown). An unusual match at Duppas Hill, Croydon, between a Kent team and a Surrey team who were all called Wood. The Woods won. This is interesting given the well documented confusion over different players called Wood or Woods in the 1770s.\n\nDates unknown, Coleman took part in the Mitcham v Ewell match (see above). Normally a London player, he was well known enough to be described as famous by the newspaper but that is the only known mention of him in sources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7747520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7747520", "title": "1753 English cricket season", "text": "1753 English cricket season\n\n1753 was the 57th English cricket season since the earliest known important match was played. Details have survived of three important eleven-a-side and one single wicket matches. \n\nA poem, dedicated to the 1st Duke of Dorset, refers to a crimson cricket ball. It may have been made by Mr Clout, whose firm was in Sevenoaks where the Dukes of Dorset reside at Knole House.\n\nThe following matches are classified as important:\n\n\"Monday, 10 September\". Two of London were to play Tom Faulkner and Joe Harris for £20 at the Artillery Ground.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14417874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14417874", "title": "1973 Central American and Caribbean Championships in Athletics", "text": "1973 Central American and Caribbean Championships in Athletics\n\nThe 1973 Central American and Caribbean Championships in Athletics were held at the Estadio José Pachencho Romero in Maracaibo, Venezuela between 26–29 July.\n\n"}
{"id": "49496367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49496367", "title": "1989 Tongatapu Inter Club Championship", "text": "1989 Tongatapu Inter Club Championship\n\nThe 1989 season of the Tongatapu Inter Club Championship was the 16th season of top flight association football competition in Tonga. Navutoka FC won the championship for the first time.\n"}
{"id": "7080854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7080854", "title": "2006 English football corruption investigation", "text": "2006 English football corruption investigation\n\nIn 2006, several allegations were made of corruption in English football, by sources both inside and outside the game, including a \"BBC Panorama\" investigation. In response, the Football Association commissioned a report from Lord Stevens, former Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, and subsequently an investigation was carried out by the City of London police, leading to many arrests.\n\nIn January 2006, then Luton Town manager, Mike Newell and then-manager of Queens Park Rangers, Ian Holloway alleged that bribes were rife in the sport.\nThe Football Association subsequently held talks with the two managers and established an enquiry.\n\nOn 19 September 2006 the BBC current affairs television programme \"Panorama\" broadcast a special investigation into corruption in English football which had begun filming in August 2005.\n\n\"Undercover: Football's Dirty Secrets\" included footage shown of meetings between agents, managers and high ranking football club officials, filmed undercover by Knut auf dem Berge, a freelance coach posing as a prospective football agent. This footage purported to show agents and managers accepting backhanders and illegally \"tapping-up\" players under contract to other clubs.\n\nThese allegations included:\n\n\nThe programme also claimed to have set up a sting involving handing a cash payment to an unnamed Premiership manager, but the alleged manager did not turn up at the rendezvous. The programme claimed that he had been scared off by Mike Newell's claims being revealed that same day.\n\nOn 26 September, the Daily Telegraph alleged that an unlicensed agent was paid in the deal to bring Tal Ben Haim to Bolton Wanderers. When the Israeli international moved to England, agent Jamie Hart – the official middle man – was paid a fee by Bolton. But he has now confirmed that unlicensed agent David Abu also received a cut of the fee for the role he played in the deal. Allardyce's son, Craig, a key protagonist in the Panorama documentary, also received a payment but when quizzed on such payments Bolton Chairman Phil Gartside confirmed he had no such knowledge.\n\nOn 3 March 2006, The Football Association established an enquiry to be headed by Lord Stevens, former Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and former head of an enquiry into corruption in cricket. The initial findings of Stevens' report were announced in December 2006.\n\nOn 20 September, The Football Association asked the BBC to provide all of the collected evidence and announced that it would investigate these allegations. It was to investigate allegations of illegal approaches involving Chelsea sporting director Frank Arnesen, Liverpool, Newcastle United and Portsmouth manager Harry Redknapp, along with allegations \"relating to players' agents and connected activities\" involving Bolton Wanderers manager Sam Allardyce, son Craig Allardyce, Newcastle United assistant manager Kevin Bond, and agents Charles Collymore and Peter Harrison.\n\nAll of those accused of impropriety have denied all allegations arising from the programme, including:\n\n\nThe League Managers Association demanded hard evidence: \"As the organisation which represents managers we were very disappointed with the programme. There was a complete lack of substance and evidence, and if the BBC has any hard evidence it should give it to the Football Association.\" HM Revenue & Customs has also indicated it will look into the claims. No libel proceedings were issued by any of those accused of wrongdoing in the broadcast.\n\nIt was announced on 2 October 2006 that Lord Stevens' inquiry into football corruption had been extended by two months to investigate 39 transfers involving eight clubs. On 20 December 2006, Stevens presented his preliminary report, which found that while the level of corruption within English football was not as high as had been anticipated, there were several causes for concern. Seventeen transfer deals were still subject to further scrutiny.\n\nOn 15 June 2007, Lord Stevens' inquiry issued its final report which raised concerns over issues involving 17 player transfers, involving five clubs, three managers and numerous agents and other third parties. In summary, the report stated: “there is no evidence of any irregular payments to club officials or players, and they are identified only as a consequence of the outstanding issues the inquiry has with the agents involved”.\n\nDetails of one of the suspect transfer deals was withheld. The other transfers about which there are unresolved issues are:\n\n\nThere were also unanswered concerns regarding the involvement of Craig Allardyce in a number of transactions. “The inquiry remains concerned at the conflict of interest that it believes existed between Craig Allardyce, his father Sam Allardyce – the then manager at Bolton – and the club itself.”\n\n\n“Agent Pinhas Zahavi has failed to co-operate fully with the inquiry. There was an initial failure to disclose his involvement in a number of transfers but, more seriously, he has failed to provide the inquiry with complete bank statements due to the confidential nature of them. There has also been a lack of responsiveness by Zahavi. There remains questions relating to his relationship with, and payments to, licensed agent Barry Silkman, and with Silkman's failure to initially disclose his involvement in all the transactions in which he has received fees.”\n\n\nThe statement relating to Zahavi and Silkman above also relates to the two Middlesbrough transfers.\n\n\n“There remains inconsistencies in evidence provided by Graeme Souness – a former manager of the club – and Kenneth Shepherd” (son of the former Newcastle chairman Freddy Shepherd)“— apparently acting in an undefined role but not as a club official – as to their respective roles in transfer negotiations.” Souness issued a statement denying any wrongdoing: \"I cannot understand why my name features in this report. I volunteered full information to Quest as a witness and I have heard nothing further from them.\" The Stevens enquiry then issued a clarification: \"We wish to make it clear that inconsistencies did not exist within the evidence given by Graeme Souness to Quest concerning his role in transfers covered by the Inquiry during his time as manager of Newcastle United FC and neither the Premier League nor do Quest have any concerns in this regard\".\n\n“The inquiry has been unable to obtain the co-operation of the agent Ahmet Bulut” in connection with the Emre transfer.\n\n“The inquiry is still awaiting clarification from agent Willie McKay” in connection with the Boumsong and Faye transfers. However, Quest later issued the following statement: \"Further to the key findings from the final Quest report published on 15 June 2007 by the Premier League, Quest would like to emphasise that, in that report, it was clear that no evidence of irregular payments was found in the transfers in the inquiry period which involved the agent Willie McKay. Quest would also like to thank Mr McKay for his cooperation with the inquiry.\"\n\nIn relation to the Luque transfer: “The inquiry still has unanswered questions relating to possible payments made by agent Francis Martin, who Newcastle officials believed was working for the selling club.”\n\n\n“Agent Willie McKay acted for the selling club, Auxerre, in the transfer of Benjani and for Portsmouth in the transfer of Cisse and, for the same reason as above” (still awaiting clarification) “the inquiry is not prepared to clear these transfers at this stage.” However, as mentioned above, the enquiry issued a further statement saying that no evidence of irregular payments had been found in the transfers in the inquiry period which involved McKay and thanking McKay for his co-operation.\n\n“In relation to Benjani’s transfer, the inquiry also has identified concerns regarding the role of (agent) Teni Yerima and (third party) Ralph N’Komo.”\n\nWith regard to manager Harry Redknapp, his ownership of a racehorse named \"Double Fantasy\" thought to have been given to him by the agent Willie McKay, has aroused some suspicion. Redknapp told the inquiry that it was possible that he did own the horse but insisted that he had not made any money out of it because the horse was a failure and never won a race.\n\nOn 28 November 2007 it was reported by BBC News that the then Portsmouth manager, Harry Redknapp, Managing Director, Peter Storrie, former Portsmouth chairman, Milan Mandaric, former Portsmouth footballer Amdy Faye and agent Willie McKay had been arrested by City of London Police in relation to the ongoing inquiries into allegations of corruption in football.\n\nCity of London Police continued an ongoing investigation in 2008, including a search of Birmingham City in March.\nBirmingham officials Karren Brady and David Sullivan were arrested, interviewed and released on bail in April; David Gold and Julia Shelton were interviewed in July.\nPascal Chimbonda was released from bail in June, effectively clearing him of wrongdoing.\n\"The Guardian\" reported in June 2009, that both Kevin Bond and Harry Redknapp had dropped their libel cases against the BBC, shortly before the trial. Meaning the BBC's claims are now legally unchallenged.\n\nWhen questioned on the subject, the FA stated that their own investigation was still ongoing, and any charges will probably wait until the government's own investigation into football corruption has concluded.\n\nOn 14 May 2008, The Football Association dropped one of the two charges it had brought against each of six players' agents relating to alleged breaches of rules in transfer dealings at Luton Town.\n\nThe F.A. has laid twelve charges against agents - two each against Sky Andrew, Mike Berry, Mark Curtis, Stephen Denos, and Andrew Mills.\n\nThe first charge was that payments were made to them by a third company, unrelated to the club and not by the club itself. All six had denied the charge and, eventually, after seven months of \"investigation,\" the charge was dropped.\n\nThe other charge against each agent was that they did not have written agreements, a.k.a. \"representation contracts,\" to act for the club when conducting negotiations. F.A. stated it is continuing with that one. Denos, Manasseh and Berry have admitted the charge but Andrew, Curtis and Mills denied it and requested personal hearings.\n\nAgent Andrew Mills, who had never previously been charged with any disciplinary offence since he began as a FIFA-licensed agent in 1993, stated that he was disappointed by the \"sensationalist coverage\" of the case. \"The headlines suggested there had been serious wrongdoing,\" Mills said. \"It is now clear that was not the case.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14159498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14159498", "title": "2018 Commonwealth Games", "text": "2018 Commonwealth Games\n\nThe 2018 Commonwealth Games, officially known as the XXI Commonwealth Games and commonly known as Gold Coast 2018, were an international multi-sport event for members of the Commonwealth that were held on the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, between 4 and 15 April 2018. It was the fifth time Australia had hosted the Commonwealth Games and the first time a major multi-sport event achieved gender equality by having an equal number of events for males and female athletes.\n\nMore than 4,400 athletes including 300 para-athletes from 71 Commonwealth Games Associations took part in the event. The Gambia which withdrew its membership from the Commonwealth of Nations and Commonwealth Games Federation in 2013, was readmitted on 31 March 2018 and participated in the event . With 275 sets of medals, the games featured 19 Commonwealth sports, including beach volleyball, para triathlon and women's rugby sevens. These sporting events took place at 14 venues in the host city, two venues in Brisbane and one venue each in Cairns and Townsville.\n\nThese were the first Commonwealth Games to take place under the Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) presidency of Louise Martin, . The host city Gold Coast was announced at the CGF General Assembly in Basseterre, Saint Kitts, on 11 November 2011. Gold Coast became the seventh Oceanian city and the first regional city to host the Commonwealth Games. These were the eighth games to be held in Oceania and the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe host nation Australia topped the medal table for the fourth time in the past five Commonwealth Games, winning the most golds (80) and most medals overall (198). England and India finished second and third respectively. Vanuatu, Cook Islands, Solomon Islands, British Virgin Islands and Dominica each won their first Commonwealth Games medals.\n\nOn 22 August 2008, the Premier of Queensland, Anna Bligh, officially launched Gold Coast City's bid to host the Commonwealth Games in 2018. On 7 April 2009, the ABC reported a land exchange deal between Gold Coast City and State of Queensland for Carrara Stadium. According to Mayor Ron Clarke, the land would aid a potential bid for the 2018 Commonwealth Games. The land exchanged would be used as the site of an aquatics centre. In the same article, Mayor Clarke raised the question of the Australian Federal Government's commitment to a 2018 Commonwealth Games bid in light of the Government's support for Australia's 2018 FIFA World Cup Finals bid. On 16 April 2009, Queensland Premier Anna Bligh told reporters that a successful Commonwealth Games bid by Gold Coast City could help the tourist strip win a role in hosting the World Cup.\n\n\"Some of the infrastructure that would be built for the Commonwealth Games will be useful for Gold Coast City to get a World Cup game out of the soccer World Cup if we're successful as a nation,\" she said. However the decision on the venues for the 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cups were made eleven months prior to the bid decision for the 2018 Commonwealth Games, so the potential World Cup venues had already been chosen. On 3 June 2009, Gold Coast City was confirmed as Australia's exclusive bidder vying for the 2018 Commonwealth Games. \"Should a bid proceed, Gold Coast City will have the exclusive Australian rights to bid as host city for 2018,\" Bligh stated.\n\n\"Recently I met with the president and CEO of the Australian Commonwealth Games Association and we agreed to commission a full and comprehensive feasibility study into the potential for the 2018 Commonwealth Games,\" she said. \"Under the stewardship of Queensland Events new chair, Geoff Dixon, that study is now well advanced.\" On 15 March 2010, it was announced that the Queensland Government will provide initial funding of A$11 million for the 2018 Commonwealth Games bid. The Premier of Queensland has indicated the Government's support for the bid to the Australian Commonwealth Games Association. On 31 March 2010, the Australian Commonwealth Games Association officially launched the bid to host the 2018 Commonwealth Games. In October 2011, Gold Coast City Mayor Ron Clarke stated that the games would provide a strong legacy for the city after the games have ended.\n\nOn 31 March 2010, a surprise bid was made for the 2018 Commonwealth Games by the Sri Lankan city of Hambantota. Hambantota was devastated by the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami, and is undergoing a major face lift. The first phase of the Port of Hambantota is nearing completion and it is funded by the government of China. The Mattala International Airport, which is the second international Airport of Sri Lanka is built close to Hambantota. A new Hambantota International Cricket Stadium had also been built, which had hosted matches in the 2011 Cricket World Cup.\n\nOn 10 November 2011, the Hambantota bidders claimed they had already secured enough votes to win the hosting rights. However, on 11 November it was officially announced Gold Coast City had won the rights to host the games.\n\nThe event was overseen by the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games Corporation (GOLDOC). The GOLDOC was formed in 2012 by the Government of Queensland. Its headquarters were located in Ashmore, a suburban region of Gold Coast. In February 2012, Mark Peters was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the GOLDOC. The Queensland Government Minister tasked with overseeing the Games was Kate Jones. Peter Beattie served as the Chairman of GOLDOC who was appointed on 17 May 2016 to replace Nigel Chamier .\n\nOne of the key technical aspects of Gold Coast City's successful bid was the fact that the city had 80 percent of the planned venues in place before the bidding deadline. The vast majority of venues were located within 20-minutes driving time of the Athletes Village in Parkwood.\n\nCarrara Stadium, located in the suburb of Carrara, was the main venue for Athletics, the opening ceremony and the closing ceremony. The seating capacity of the stadium was temporarily increased to 40,000 for the games by the installation of a large temporary North Stand.\n\nThe Gold Coast City Convention and Exhibition Centre, located in the suburb of Broadbeach, hosted Basketball, Netball (preliminaries) and Weightlifting events, also serving as the Main Media Centre and International Broadcast centre hosting over 3000 members of the worlds press. The Broadbeach Bowls Club hosted the Bowls competition.\n\nThe Hinze Dam, located in the suburb of Advancetown, was the location for the Mountain Bike competition. A new course was constructed to meet international competition requirements and temporary spectator seating for 2,000 spectators.\n\nThe newly built Coomera Sport and Leisure Centre hosted Gymnastics and Netball (finals). The existing sound stages of the Village Roadshow Studios complex in the suburb of Oxenford hosted the sports of Boxing, Table Tennis and Squash. During Games mode the venue was enhanced to provide for the International Sporting Federation technical venue requirements and provide spectator seating of 3,000 (boxing) and 3,200 (table tennis). The Gold Coast Hockey Centre hosted the men's and women's Hockey events during the games. The Southport Broadwater Parklands hosted Triathlon and athletic events. The Optus aquatic centre hosted the swimming and diving events.\n\nRobina Stadium hosted the Rugby 7s competition and upgraded to meet World Rugby standards. The Elanora/Currumbin Valley area hosted the road racing elements of the cycling programme. Coolangatta Beachfront hosted the beach volleyball event.\n\nBrisbane, along with the Gold Coast, forms part of the South East Queensland conurbation. Track Cycling was held at the Sleeman Sports Complex in the suburb of Chandler, where a new indoor cycling velodrome (Anna Meares Velodrome) was built. The Velodrome's seat capacity was 4,000 during the games mode.\n\nThe Shooting disciplines were held at the Belmont Shooting Centre. In Tropical North Queensland, the Cairns Convention Centre and Townsville Entertainment Centre hosted the preliminary rounds of both the men's and women's basketball competitions.\n\nThe Queensland state government spent A$1.5 billion (US$1.2 billion) to deliver the event. Out of this, A$550 million (US$425 million) were spent on the procurement programme. Procurement of the security and security infrastructure included contracts for four prime suppliers which delivered around 4,200 security guards. A$34 million (US$26 million) were spent on the deployment of the armed forces to provide rapid-response squads, bomb detectors, offshore patrols and surveillance. A$657 million (US$509 million) were spent for the construction of the venues and the Games Village. Additional A$2.6 billion were spent for the transport infrastructure. Seven Games venues were upgraded and only three were newly built and they were the A$105.3 million Gold Coast Sport and Leisure Centre, the A$40 million Coomera Indoor Sports Centre and the A$59 million Anna Meares Velodrome. More than A$6.4 million were spent on the Queen's Baton Relay. \n\nThe countdown clock was unveiled on 4 April 2013, exactly five years from the opening ceremony of the games. The clock was shaped as a surfboard and was located at the beach end of Cavill Avenue in Surfers Paradise. The Countdown Clock was the first fixed element of the Commonwealth Games visual identity program.\n\nThe ticket requests began on 24 April 2017 and ended on 22 May 2017. The first round of tickets were allocated on 22 June 2017 via a computer-generated ballot system. About 70% of the people who applied for the tickets had received some or all of the tickets requested in the first phase. In Australia, ticket prices ranged from A$10 for many events to A$495 for the most expensive seats at the opening ceremony. The games expected to have 1.2 million tickets for sale. Around 1.06 million tickets were sold by 3 April 2018. Ticketek was the provider of ticketing services for the games.\n\nThe organizing committee expected 15,000 volunteers for the games. Over 45,000 applicants applied to become a volunteer. The uniforms for the volunteers were revealed on 11 November 2017 at the Gold Coast Convention and Exhibition Centre. Former Gold Coast Titans player Mat Rogers who was present at the uniform showcase ceremony, said that the uniforms were \"very Gold Coast\" and it was like an \"active wear\". Hard Yakka was the official supplier of the uniforms for the volunteers.\n\nAt a charity gala held on 4 November 2017, the medals for the games were officially unveiled. Australian Indigenous artist Delvene Cockatoo-Collins designed the medals, while they were produced by the Royal Australian Mint. The design of the medals was inspired by the coastline of Gold Coast along with Indigenous culture. Furthermore, Cockatoo-Collins mentioned, \"the medal design represents soft sand lines which shift with every tide and wave, also symbolic of athletic achievement, The continual change of tide represents the evolution in athletes who are making their mark, Records are made and special moments of elation are celebrated\". Approximately 1,500 medals were created to be distributed to the medallists and each measures approximately 63 millimetres in diameter. The medals weigh between 138 and 163 grams.\n\nThe 2018 Commonwealth Games Athletes Village was located on 59 hectares at Southport, Gold Coast. which provided accommodation and services to 6,600 athletes and officials in 1252 permanent dwellings. There are 1170 one and two bedroom apartments and 82 three bedroom townhouses which will serve as student accommodation to the nearby Griffith University. It offered services like laundry, refreshments and television and computer spaces and four residential pools. The village consisted a gym which was designed with guidance from the Australian Institute of Sport and the equipment was sponsored by Technogym. Adjoining the gym was the Athlete Recovery Area which provided services like plunge baths, including accessible baths, saunas, massage and consults from the Sports Medical personnel. The Main Dining served over 18,000 meals per day to the athletes during the games. The village also consisted of retail shops, Optus phone store, salon, bar and a games room which featured a number of arcade games, pool tables and game consoles.\n\nThe Gold Coast 2018 Queen's Baton Relay was launched on Commonwealth Day, 13 March 2017, on the historic forecourt at Buckingham Palace, signalling the official countdown to the start of the Games. Accompanied by the Duke of Edinburgh and Prince Edward The Earl of Wessex, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II heralded the start of the relay by placing her 'message to the Commonwealth and its athletes' into the distinctive loop-design Queen's Baton which then set off on its journey around the globe. It traveled for 388 days, spending time in every nation and territory of the Commonwealth. The Gold Coast 2018 Queen's Baton Relay was the longest in Commonwealth Games history. Covering 230,000 km over 388 days, the baton made its way through the six Commonwealth regions of Africa, the Americas, the Caribbean, Europe, Asia and Oceania.\n\nThe baton landed on Australian soil in December 2017 and then spent 100 days travelling through Australia, finishing its journey at the Opening Ceremony on 4 April 2018, where the message was removed from the Baton and read aloud by Charles, Prince of Wales.\n\nDuring the games period, free public transportation within Queensland region was provided to ticket and accreditation holders. The free transportation services were available on local buses, train and Gold Coast light rail () services in Gold Coast and on TransLink and Qconnect bus services in Cairns and Townsville. The Gold Coast light rail system, connected a number of the key games venues including the Optus Aquatic Centre, Broadwater Parklands and the Gold Coast Convention & Exhibition Centre with the major accommodation centres of Surfers Paradise and Broadbeach and the Athletes Village at Parklands. An extension to the system was announced in October 2015, connecting the then current terminus at Gold Coast University Hospital to the railway line to Brisbane at Helensvale. The extension opened in December 2017, in time for the games.\n\nThe Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority conducted an anti-doping drive in the months prior to the games, covering around 2500 tests of Australian athletes, as well as 500 tests against international athletes. Three Australians failed drug tests in this process, along with around 20 international athletes, subject to appeal. The Commonwealth Games Federation conducted in-competition testing and, matching protocol at the Olympic Games, launched a sample storage initiative to allow for future testing of samples up to ten years later, should detection technology improve.\n\nThe Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games Corporation (GOLDOC) delivered the event with a focus on sustainability under the guidance of the ISO 20121 event sustainability management system and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework Sustainability Reporting Standards. The GOLDOC received the Sustainability Award in the Australian Business Awards 2016 for focusing on sustainable practices and planning in the preparation of the games. The GOLDOC headquarters received the 4 Star Green Star – Interiors PILOT rating from the Green Building Council of Australia. The new Anna Meares Velodrome, built specifically for the games, is the first velodrome in the world to have full LED broadcast-quality lighting that cuts energy consumption by up to 60% and reduces running costs and carbon emissions.\n\nThe opening ceremony was held at Carrara Stadium in the Gold Coast, Australia, between 20:00 and 22:40 AEST, on 4 April 2018. Tickets for the ceremony started at 100 Australian dollars with half price tickets available for children. The Head of the Commonwealth, Queen Elizabeth II, was represented by her son, Charles, Prince of Wales.\n\nFollowing tradition, the host of the previous games, Scotland entered first, followed by the rest of the European countries competing. Following this, all countries paraded in alphabetical order from their respective regions. After the European countries entered, countries from Africa, the Americas, Asia, the Caribbean, and lastly Oceania marched in. The host nation of Australia entered last. Each nation was preceded by a placard bearer carrying a sign with the country's name.\n\nThe closing ceremony was held at Carrara Stadium on Sunday 15 April and was produced by Jack Morton Worldwide at a cost of AU$30 million. Australian pop stars Guy Sebastian, Samantha Jade, Dami Im, Ricki Lee and The Veronicas were among the performers along with children's entertainers, The Wiggles.\n\nPrince Edward, Earl of Wessex, declared the Games closed and passed the Commonwealth Games flag to Birmingham, England which will host the 2022 Games.\n\nThere were 71 nations competing at 2018 Commonwealth Games. Maldives were scheduled to participate, but in October 2016 they withdrew from the Commonwealth. The Gambia returned to the Commonwealth Games after being readmitted as a Commonwealth Games Federation member on 31 March 2018.\n\nThe regulations stated that from the 26 approved sports administered by Commonwealth Governing Bodies, a minimum of ten core sports and maximum of seventeen sports must be included in any Commonwealth Games schedule. The approved sports included the 10 core sports: athletics, badminton, boxing, hockey, lawn bowls, netball (for women), rugby sevens, squash, swimming and weightlifting. Integrated disabled competitions were also scheduled for the Games in nine sports: swimming, athletics, cycling, table tennis, powerlifting and lawn bowls. Along with these events for the first time EAD events in triathlon were held, with the medals added to the final tally for each nation. A record 38 para events were contested at these games. On 8 March 2016, beach volleyball was announced as the 18th sport.\n\nThe program was broadly similar to that of the 2014 Commonwealth Games, with the major changes being the dropping of judo, the reintroduction of basketball, the debut of women's rugby sevens and beach volleyball.\n\nOn 7 October 2016, it was announced seven new events for women were added to the sport program, meaning there are an equal number of events for men and women. This marks the first time in history that a major multi-sport event has equality in terms of events. In total 275 events in 18 sports are being contested.\n\n\"Numbers in parentheses indicate the number of medal events contested in each sport.\"\n\n\nOnly the top ten successful nations are displayed here. \n\nNEP Australia was the host broadcaster of the event. It produced high definition coverage of the event and delivered to the rights-holding broadcasters of other nations. In Australia, the games were broadcast live on three Seven Network channels - 7HD, 7TWO and 7Mate. In the United Kingdom, BBC provided Commonwealth Games coverage of more than 200 hours across BBC One, BBC Two, BBC Red Button, BBC Sport website, BBC iPlayer and BBC radio. ESPN provided the games coverage for viewers in the USA. Sony Pictures Networks India broadcast the games for the viewers in India on three channels - Sony Six, Sony Ten 2 in English and Sony Ten 3 in Hindi.\n\nFlow Sports provided games coverage in the Caribbean countries such as Anguilla, Antigua & Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curaçao, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica, Martinique, Montserrat, Netherlands Antilles, Saint Barthelemy, Saint Kitts & Nevis, St. Martin, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Saint Lucia, Suriname, Trinidad & Tobago and Turks & Caicos. Flow Sports provided coverage of the event on Flow Sports 1, Flow Sports 2 and up to three additional \"Flow Sports Extra\" channels.\n\nThe New Zealand government funded Pacific Cooperation Broadcasting Limited (PCBL) broadcast the event on Pasifika TV in the Oceanian countries such as Cook Islands, Fiji, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu, Kiribati and Tuvalu. \nThe official motto for the 2018 Commonwealth Games was \"Share the Dream\". It was chosen to highlight the dreams and experience at the games that were shared by participants of the games, ranging from athletes to volunteers and the host country Australia to the world including the Commonwealth nations.\n\nThe emblem was launched on 4 April 2013, which marked exactly five years until its opening ceremony. It was unveiled at the Southport Broadwater Parklands. It was designed by the New South Wales based brand consultancy WiteKite. The emblem of the 2018 Commonwealth Games was a silhouette of the skyline and landscape of Gold Coast, the host city of the games. Nigel Chamier , former Chairman of the GOLDOC, said that it was the result of months of market research.\n\nBorobi was named as the mascot of the 2018 Commonwealth Games in 2016. Borobi is a blue koala, with indigenous markings on its body. The term \"borobi\" means koala in the Yugambeh language, spoken by the indigenous Yugambeh people of the Gold Coast and surrounding areas. The song <nowiki>\"Days of Gold\"</nowiki> composed by the Australian Duo band Busby Marou, which was released on 17 October 2014, was considered as the official song of the Mascot Borobi.\n\nThe official partners of the games were The Star Gold Coast, Griffith University, TAFE Queensland, Longines, Optus, Atos and Woolworths Supermarkets. Griffith University was also the Creative Arts partner of the games and Presenting partner of the Gold Coast Marathon. TAFE Queensland was responsible for providing vocational education and training program for the volunteers of the games. Longines served as the official timekeeper of the games.\n\nThe official song of the 2018 Commonwealth Games <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Welcome to Earth<nowiki>\"</nowiki> was recorded by the Australian Singer Delta Goodrem. The song was performed for the first time by Goodrem during the opening ceremony of the games. The song was worldwide released on 5 April 2018 in Delta Goodrem's official YouTube channel.\n\nAt least 13 athletes from four countries - Cameroon, Uganda, Rwanda, and Sierra Leone - absconded during or immediately after the Games. Some missed their competitions. Athletes regularly abscond during major sporting events, and many subsequently claim asylum in their host countries. Most hold nationalities that are deemed high-risk by immigration authorities and find it impossible to get visas outside of exceptional events, such as major games.\n\nA month after the games ended, officials estimated that fifty athletes had remained in Australia illegally, with another 200 staying in the country on visas.\n\nThe organising committee decided to bring in the athletes before the start of the closing ceremony. This caused an uproar on social media as, contrary to public expectations, none of the athletes were shown entering the stadium during the ceremony. Broadcast rights holders Channel 7 complained on air about the decision and concluded that, \"it hasn't really lived up to expectations\". Many spectators and athletes left during the ceremony, resulting in a half-empty stadium for much of the event. Following this, the ABC claimed that Channel 7 was briefed on the closing ceremony schedule, a claim which Channel 7 later refuted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8428500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8428500", "title": "Al Naft Stadium", "text": "Al Naft Stadium\n\nAl Naft Stadium, is a multi-use stadium in Baghdad, Iraq. It is currently used mostly for football matches and serves as the home stadium of Al Naft. The stadium holds 3,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "15409851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15409851", "title": "All-time European Figure Skating Championships medal table", "text": "All-time European Figure Skating Championships medal table\n\nThe following is the \"cumulative medal count\" for countries at the European Figure Skating Championships. It includes countries that no longer exist.\n\nEuropean Championships 1893 (annulled by the ISU) included\n\nBoldface denotes active skaters and highest medal count among all skaters (including these who not included in these tables) per type.\n\nBoldface denotes active skaters and highest medal count among all skaters (including these who not included in these tables) per type.\n\nBoldface denotes active skaters and highest medal count among all pairs or separate partners (including these who not included in these tables) per type. Italic denotes statistics of performances of separate skaters with different partners.\n\nBoldface denotes active skaters and highest medal count among all duos or separate dancers (including these who not included in these tables) per type. Italic denotes statistics of performances of separate dancers with different partners.\n\nBoldface denotes active skaters and highest medal count among all skaters (including these who not included in these tables) per type.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8571452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8571452", "title": "Argir Stadium", "text": "Argir Stadium\n\nArgir Stadium also called Inni í Vika Stadium or Skansi Arena (for sponsorship reasons) is a multi-use stadium on the sport site in Argir, Faroe Islands. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Argja Bóltfelag. The stadium holds 2,000 people.\n\nOn 29 July 2010 on the Faroese National Day the stadium Inni í Vika in Argir was reopened after being updated. AB Argir got a new football field and a new sitting area with roof on the western side of the pitch from the Municipality of Tórshavn, which Argir is a part of. Jógvan Arge who is chairman for Cultural Affairs of Tórshavn Municipality held a speech and the mayor of Tórshavn Municipality Heðin Mortensen made the first football kick and kicked the ball to the chairman of AB Argir Andrass Drangastein Mr. Drangastein also gave a speech and after receiving the ball from the mayor, he placed it in the center of the new artificial football field, ready for the match between AB Argir and EB/Streymur. The place where the football stadium is, is called Inni í Vika.\n\n"}
{"id": "36425537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36425537", "title": "Australia national beach handball team", "text": "Australia national beach handball team\n\nThe Australia national beach handball team are the national team of Australia. It is governed by the Australian Handball Federation and takes part in international beach handball competitions.\n\nThe Australian teams of both Women and Men were present to all world championships and world games since 2010. Both teams are currently preparing for the 2016 world championships in Budapest (Hungary) during July 2016.\n\nThe qualifier Oceania took place in Gold Coast at the end of February 2016. Both the Women and Men team have won the Oceania Qualifiers and won a spot in the 2016 World Cup.\n\n"}
{"id": "3956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3956", "title": "Badminton", "text": "Badminton\n\nBadminton is a racquet sport played using racquets to hit a shuttlecock across a net. Although it may be played with larger teams, the most common forms of the game are \"singles\" (with one player per side) and \"doubles\" (with two players per side). Badminton is often played as a casual outdoor activity in a yard or on a beach; formal games are played on a rectangular indoor court. Points are scored by striking the shuttlecock with the racquet and landing it within the opposing side's half of the court.\n\nEach side may only strike the shuttlecock once before it passes over the net. Play ends once the shuttlecock has struck the floor or if a fault has been called by the umpire, service judge, or (in their absence) the opposing side.\n\nThe shuttlecock is a feathered or (in informal matches) plastic projectile which flies differently from the balls used in many other sports. In particular, the feathers create much higher drag, causing the shuttlecock to decelerate more rapidly. Shuttlecocks also have a high top speed compared to the balls in other racquet sports. The flight of the shuttlecock gives the sport its distinctive nature.\n\nThe game developed in British India from the earlier game of battledore and shuttlecock. European play came to be dominated by Denmark but the game has become very popular in Asia, with recent competitions dominated by China. Since 1992, badminton has been a Summer Olympic sport with four events: men's singles, women's singles, men's doubles, and women's doubles, with mixed doubles added four years later. At high levels of play, the sport demands excellent fitness: players require aerobic stamina, agility, strength, speed, and precision. It is also a technical sport, requiring good motor coordination and the development of sophisticated racquet movements.\n\nGames employing shuttlecocks have been played for centuries across Eurasia, but the modern game of badminton developed in the mid-19th century among the British as a variant of the earlier game of battledore and shuttlecock. (\"Battledore\" was an older term for \"racquet\".) Its exact origin remains obscure. The name derives from the Duke of Beaufort's Badminton House in Gloucestershire, but why or when remains unclear. As early as 1860, a London toy dealer named Isaac Spratt published a booklet entitled \"Badminton Battledore – A New Game\", but no copy is known to have survived. An 1863 article in \"The Cornhill Magazine\" describes badminton as \"battledore and shuttlecock played with sides, across a string suspended some five feet from the ground\".\n\nThe game may have originally developed among expatriate officers in British India, where it was very popular by the 1870s. Ball badminton, a form of the game played with a wool ball instead of a shuttlecock, was being played in Thanjavur as early as the 1850s and was at first played interchangeably with badminton by the British, the woollen ball being preferred in windy or wet weather.\n\nEarly on, the game was also known as Poona or Poonah after the garrison town of Pune, where it was particularly popular and where the first rules for the game were drawn up in 1873. By 1875, officers returning home had started a badminton club in Folkestone. Initially, the sport was played with sides ranging from 1 to 4 players, but it was quickly established that games between two or four competitors worked the best. The shuttlecocks were coated with India rubber and, in outdoor play, sometimes weighted with lead. Although the depth of the net was of no consequence, it was preferred that it should reach the ground.\n\nThe sport was played under the Pune rules until 1887, when J. H. E. Hart of the Bath Badminton Club drew up revised regulations. In 1890, Hart and Bagnel Wild again revised the rules. The Badminton Association of England (BAE) published these rules in 1893 and officially launched the sport at a house called \"Dunbar\" in Portsmouth on 13 September. The BAE started the first badminton competition, the All England Open Badminton Championships for gentlemen's doubles, ladies' doubles, and mixed doubles, in 1899. Singles competitions were added in 1900 and an England–Ireland championship match appeared in 1904.\n\nEngland, Scotland, Wales, Canada, Denmark, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, and New Zealand were the founding members of the International Badminton Federation in 1934, now known as the Badminton World Federation. India joined as an affiliate in 1936. The BWF now governs international badminton. Although initiated in England, competitive men's badminton has traditionally been dominated in Europe by Denmark. Worldwide, Asian nations have become dominant in international competition. China, Denmark, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and South Korea are the nations which have consistently produced world-class players in the past few decades, with China being the greatest force in men's and women's competition recently.\n\nThe game has also become a popular backyard sport in the United States.\n\nThe following information is a simplified summary of badminton rules based on the BWF Statutes publication, \"Laws of Badminton\".\n\nThe court is rectangular and divided into halves by a net. Courts are usually marked for both singles and doubles play, although badminton rules permit a court to be marked for singles only. The doubles court is wider than the singles court, but both are of the same length. The exception, which often causes confusion to newer players, is that the doubles court has a shorter serve-length dimension.\n\nThe full width of the court is 6.1 metres (20 ft), and in singles this width is reduced to 5.18 metres (17 ft). The full length of the court is 13.4 metres (44 ft). The service courts are marked by a centre line dividing the width of the court, by a short service line at a distance of 1.98 metres (6 ft 6 inch) from the net, and by the outer side and back boundaries. In doubles, the service court is also marked by a long service line, which is 0.76 metres (2 ft 6 inch) from the back boundary.\n\nThe net is 1.55 metres (5 ft 1 inch) high at the edges and 1.524 metres (5 ft) high in the centre. The net posts are placed over the doubles sidelines, even when singles is played.\n\nThe minimum height for the ceiling above the court is not mentioned in the Laws of Badminton. Nonetheless, a badminton court will not be suitable if the ceiling is likely to be hit on a high serve.\n\nWhen the server serves, the shuttlecock must pass over the short service line on the opponents' court or it will count as a fault.\n\nAt the start of the rally, the server and receiver stand in diagonally opposite \"service courts\" (see court dimensions). The server hits the shuttlecock so that it would land in the receiver's service court. This is similar to tennis, except that a badminton serve must be hit below waist height and with the racquet shaft pointing downwards, the shuttlecock is not allowed to bounce and in badminton, the players stand inside their service courts, unlike tennis.\n\nWhen the serving side loses a rally, the server immediately passes to their opponent(s) (this differs from the old system where sometimes the serve passes to the doubles partner for what is known as a \"second serve\").\n\nIn singles, the server stands in their right service court when their score is even, and in her/his left service court when her/his score is odd.\n\nIn doubles, if the serving side wins a rally, the same player continues to serve, but he/she changes service courts so that she/he serves to a different opponent each time. If the opponents win the rally and their new score is even, the player in the right service court serves; if odd, the player in the left service court serves. The players' service courts are determined by their positions at the start of the previous rally, not by where they were standing at the end of the rally. A consequence of this system is that each time a side regains the service, the server will be the player who did \"not\" serve last time.\n\nEach game is played to 21 points, with players scoring a point whenever they win a rally regardless of whether they served (this differs from the old system where players could only win a point on their serve and each game was played to 15 points). A match is the best of three games.\n\nIf the score reaches 20-all, then the game continues until one side gains a two-point lead (such as 24–22), except when there is a tie at 29-all, in which the game goes to a golden point. Whoever scores this point will win.\n\nAt the start of a match, the shuttlecock is cast and the side towards which the shuttlecock is pointing serves first. Alternatively, a coin may be tossed, with the winners choosing whether to serve or receive first, or choosing which end of the court to occupy first, and their opponents making the leftover the remaining choice.\n\nIn subsequent games, the winners of the previous game serve first. Matches are best out of three: a player or pair must win two games (of 21 points each) to win the match. For the first rally of any doubles game, the serving pair may decide who serves and the receiving pair may decide who receives. The players change ends at the start of the second game; if the match reaches a third game, they change ends both at the start of the game and when the leading player's or pair's score reaches 11 points.\n\nThe server and receiver must remain within their service courts, without touching the boundary lines, until the server strikes the shuttlecock. The other two players may stand wherever they wish, so long as they do not block the vision of the server or receiver.\n\nIf a let is called, the rally is stopped and replayed with no change to the score. Lets may occur because of some unexpected disturbance such as a shuttlecock landing on a court (having been hit there by players playing in adjacent court) or in small halls the shuttle may touch an overhead rail which can be classed as a let.\n\nIf the receiver is not ready when the service is delivered, a let shall be called; yet, if the receiver attempts to return the shuttlecock, the receiver shall be judged to have been ready.\n\nBadminton rules restrict the design and size of racquets and shuttlecocks.\n\nBadminton racquets are lightweight, with top quality racquets weighing between not including grip or strings. They are composed of many different materials ranging from carbon fibre composite (graphite reinforced plastic) to solid steel, which may be augmented by a variety of materials. Carbon fibre has an excellent strength to weight ratio, is stiff, and gives excellent kinetic energy transfer. Before the adoption of carbon fibre composite, racquets were made of light metals such as aluminium. Earlier still, racquets were made of wood. Cheap racquets are still often made of metals such as steel, but wooden racquets are no longer manufactured for the ordinary market, because of their excessive mass and cost. Nowadays, nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes and fullerene are added to racquets giving them greater durability.\n\nThere is a wide variety of racquet designs, although the laws limit the racquet size and shape. Different racquets have playing characteristics that appeal to different players. The traditional oval head shape is still available, but an isometric head shape is increasingly common in new racquets.\n\nBadminton strings are thin, high performing strings with thicknesses ranging from about 0.62 to 0.73 mm. Thicker strings are more durable, but many players prefer the feel of thinner strings. String tension is normally in the range of 80 to 160 N (18 to 36 lbf). Recreational players generally string at lower tensions than professionals, typically between 80 and 110 N (18 and 25 lbf). Professionals string between about 110 and 160 N (25 and 36 lbf). Some string manufacturers measure the thickness of their strings under tension so they are actually thicker than specified when slack. Ashaway Micropower is actually 0.7mm but Yonex BG-66 is about 0.72mm.\n\nIt is often argued that high string tensions improve control, whereas low string tensions increase power. The arguments for this generally rely on crude mechanical reasoning, such as claiming that a lower tension string bed is more bouncy and therefore provides more power. This is, in fact, incorrect, for a higher string tension can cause the shuttle to slide off the racquet and hence make it harder to hit a shot accurately. An alternative view suggests that the optimum tension for power depends on the player: the faster and more accurately a player can swing their racquet, the higher the tension for maximum power. Neither view has been subjected to a rigorous mechanical analysis, nor is there clear evidence in favour of one or the other. The most effective way for a player to find a good string tension is to experiment.\n\nThe choice of grip allows a player to increase the thickness of their racquet handle and choose a comfortable surface to hold. A player may build up the handle with one or several grips before applying the final layer.\n\nPlayers may choose between a variety of grip materials. The most common choices are PU synthetic grips or towelling grips. Grip choice is a matter of personal preference. Players often find that sweat becomes a problem; in this case, a drying agent may be applied to the grip or hands, sweatbands may be used, the player may choose another grip material or change his/her grip more frequently.\n\nThere are two main types of grip: \"replacement\" grips and \"overgrips\". Replacement grips are thicker and are often used to increase the size of the handle. Overgrips are thinner (less than 1 mm), and are often used as the final layer. Many players, however, prefer to use replacement grips as the final layer. Towelling grips are always replacement grips. Replacement grips have an adhesive backing, whereas overgrips have only a small patch of adhesive at the start of the tape and must be applied under tension; overgrips are more convenient for players who change grips frequently, because they may be removed more rapidly without damaging the underlying material.\n\nA shuttlecock (often abbreviated to \"shuttle\"; also called a \"birdie\") is a high-drag projectile, with an open conical shape: the cone is formed from sixteen overlapping feathers embedded into a rounded cork base. The cork is covered with thin leather or synthetic material. Synthetic shuttles are often used by recreational players to reduce their costs as feathered shuttles break easily. These nylon shuttles may be constructed with either natural cork or synthetic foam base and a plastic skirt.\n\nBadminton rules also provide for testing a shuttlecock for the correct speed:\n\nBadminton shoes are lightweight with soles of rubber or similar high-grip, non-marking materials.\n\nCompared to running shoes, badminton shoes have little lateral support. High levels of lateral support are useful for activities where lateral motion is undesirable and unexpected. Badminton, however, requires powerful lateral movements. A highly built-up lateral support will not be able to protect the foot in badminton; instead, it will encourage catastrophic collapse at the point where the shoe's support fails, and the player's ankles are not ready for the sudden loading, which can cause sprains. For this reason, players should choose badminton shoes rather than general trainers or running shoes, because proper badminton shoes will have a very thin sole, lower a person's centre of gravity, and therefore result in fewer injuries. Players should also ensure that they learn safe and proper footwork, with the knee and foot in alignment on all lunges. This is more than just a safety concern: proper footwork is also critical in order to move effectively around the court.\n\nBadminton offers a wide variety of basic strokes, and players require a high level of skill to perform all of them effectively. All strokes can be played either \"forehand\" or \"backhand\". A player's forehand side is the same side as their playing hand: for a right-handed player, the forehand side is their right side and the backhand side is their left side. Forehand strokes are hit with the front of the hand leading (like hitting with the palm), whereas backhand strokes are hit with the back of the hand leading (like hitting with the knuckles). Players frequently play certain strokes on the forehand side with a backhand hitting action, and vice versa.\n\nIn the forecourt and midcourt, most strokes can be played equally effectively on either the forehand or backhand side; but in the rear court, players will attempt to play as many strokes as possible on their forehands, often preferring to play a \"round-the-head\" forehand overhead (a forehand \"on the backhand side\") rather than attempt a backhand overhead. Playing a backhand overhead has two main disadvantages. First, the player must turn their back to their opponents, restricting their view of them and the court. Second, backhand overheads cannot be hit with as much power as forehands: the hitting action is limited by the shoulder joint, which permits a much greater range of movement for a forehand overhead than for a backhand. The \"backhand clear\" is considered by most players and coaches to be the most difficult basic stroke in the game, since the precise technique is needed in order to muster enough power for the shuttlecock to travel the full length of the court. For the same reason, \"backhand smashes\" tend to be weak.\n\nThe choice of stroke depends on how near the shuttlecock is to the net, whether it is above net height, and where an opponent is currently positioned: players have much better attacking options if they can reach the shuttlecock well above net height, especially if it is also close to the net. In the forecourt, a high shuttlecock will be met with a \"net kill\", hitting it steeply downwards and attempting to win the rally immediately. This is why it is best to drop the shuttlecock just over the net in this situation. In the midcourt, a high shuttlecock will usually be met with a powerful \"smash\", also hitting downwards and hoping for an outright winner or a weak reply. Athletic \"jump smashes\", where players jump upwards for a steeper smash angle, are a common and spectacular element of elite men's doubles play. In the rearcourt, players strive to hit the shuttlecock while it is still above them, rather than allowing it to drop lower. This \"overhead\" hitting allows them to play smashes, \"clears\" (hitting the shuttlecock high and to the back of the opponents' court), and \"drop shots\" (hitting the shuttlecock softly so that it falls sharply downwards into the opponents' forecourt). If the shuttlecock has dropped lower, then a smash is impossible and a full-length, high clear is difficult.\n\nWhen the shuttlecock is well below net height, players have no choice but to hit upwards. \"Lifts\", where the shuttlecock is hit upwards to the back of the opponents' court, can be played from all parts of the court. If a player does not lift, his only remaining option is to push the shuttlecock softly back to the net: in the forecourt, this is called a \"net shot\"; in the midcourt or rear court, it is often called a \"push\" or \"block\".\n\nWhen the shuttlecock is near to net height, players can hit \"drives\", which travel flat and rapidly over the net into the opponents' rear midcourt and rear court. Pushes may also be hit flatter, placing the shuttlecock into the front midcourt. Drives and pushes may be played from the midcourt or forecourt, and are most often used in doubles: they are an attempt to regain the attack, rather than choosing to lift the shuttlecock and defend against smashes. After a successful drive or push, the opponents will often be forced to lift the shuttlecock.\n\nBalls may be spun to alter their bounce (for example, topspin and backspin in tennis) or trajectory, and players may slice the ball (strike it with an angled racquet face) to produce such spin. The shuttlecock is not allowed to bounce, but slicing the shuttlecock does have applications in badminton. (See Basic strokes for an explanation of technical terms.)\n\nDue to the way that its feathers overlap, a shuttlecock also has a slight natural spin about its axis of rotational symmetry. The spin is in a counter-clockwise direction as seen from above when dropping a shuttlecock. This natural spin affects certain strokes: a tumbling net shot is more effective if the slicing action is from right to left, rather than from left to right.\n\nBadminton biomechanics have not been the subject of extensive scientific study, but some studies confirm the minor role of the wrist in power generation and indicate that the major contributions to power come from internal and external rotations of the upper and lower arm. Recent guides to the sport thus emphasize forearm rotation rather than wrist movements.\n\nThe feathers impart substantial drag, causing the shuttlecock to decelerate greatly over distance. The shuttlecock is also extremely aerodynamically stable: regardless of initial orientation, it will turn to fly cork-first and remain in the cork-first orientation.\n\nOne consequence of the shuttlecock's drag is that it requires considerable power to hit it the full length of the court, which is not the case for most racquet sports. The drag also influences the flight path of a lifted (\"lobbed\") shuttlecock: the parabola of its flight is heavily skewed so that it falls at a steeper angle than it rises. With very high serves, the shuttlecock may even fall vertically.\n\nWhen defending against a smash, players have three basic options: lift, block, or drive. In singles, a block to the net is the most common reply. In doubles, a lift is the safest option but it usually allows the opponents to continue smashing; blocks and drives are counter-attacking strokes but may be intercepted by the smasher's partner. Many players use a backhand hitting action for returning smashes on both the forehand and backhand sides because backhands are more effective than forehands at covering smashes directed to the body. Hard shots directed towards the body are difficult to defend.\n\nThe service is restricted by the Laws and presents its own array of stroke choices. Unlike in tennis, the server's racquet must be pointing in a downward direction to deliver the serve so normally the shuttle must be hit upwards to pass over the net. The server can choose a \"low serve\" into the forecourt (like a push), or a lift to the back of the service court, or a flat \"drive serve\". Lifted serves may be either \"high serves\", where the shuttlecock is lifted so high that it falls almost vertically at the back of the court, or \"flick serves\", where the shuttlecock is lifted to a lesser height but falls sooner.\n\nOnce players have mastered these basic strokes, they can hit the shuttlecock from and to any part of the court, powerfully and softly as required. Beyond the basics, however, badminton offers rich potential for advanced stroke skills that provide a competitive advantage. Because badminton players have to cover a short distance as quickly as possible, the purpose of many advanced strokes is to deceive the opponent, so that either he is tricked into believing that a different stroke is being played, or he is forced to delay his movement until he actually sees the shuttle's direction. \"Deception\" in badminton is often used in both of these senses. When a player is genuinely deceived, he will often lose the point immediately because he cannot change his direction quickly enough to reach the shuttlecock. Experienced players will be aware of the trick and cautious not to move too early, but the attempted deception is still useful because it forces the opponent to delay his movement slightly. Against weaker players whose intended strokes are obvious, an experienced player may move before the shuttlecock has been hit, anticipating the stroke to gain an advantage.\n\n\"Slicing\" and using a \"shortened hitting action\" are the two main technical devices that facilitate deception. Slicing involves hitting the shuttlecock with an angled racquet face, causing it to travel in a different direction than suggested by the body or arm movement. Slicing also causes the shuttlecock to travel more slowly than the arm movement suggests. For example, a good crosscourt \"sliced drop shot\" will use a hitting action that suggests a straight clear or a smash, deceiving the opponent about both the power and direction of the shuttlecock. A more sophisticated slicing action involves brushing the strings around the shuttlecock during the hit, in order to make the shuttlecock spin. This can be used to improve the shuttle's trajectory, by making it dip more rapidly as it passes the net; for example, a sliced low serve can travel slightly faster than a normal low serve, yet land on the same spot. Spinning the shuttlecock is also used to create \"spinning net shots\" (also called \"tumbling net shots\"), in which the shuttlecock turns over itself several times (tumbles) before stabilizing; sometimes the shuttlecock remains inverted instead of tumbling. The main advantage of a spinning net shot is that the opponent will be unwilling to address the shuttlecock until it has stopped tumbling, since hitting the feathers will result in an unpredictable stroke. Spinning net shots are especially important for high-level singles players.\n\nThe lightness of modern racquets allows players to use a very short hitting action for many strokes, thereby maintaining the option to hit a powerful or a soft stroke until the last possible moment. For example, a singles player may hold his racquet ready for a net shot, but then flick the shuttlecock to the back instead with a shallow lift when she or he notices the opponent has moved before the actual shot was played. A shallow lift takes less time to reach the ground and as mentioned above a rally is over when the shuttlecock touches the ground. This makes the opponent's task of covering the whole court much more difficult than if the lift was hit higher and with a bigger, obvious swing. A short hitting action is not only useful for deception: it also allows the player to hit powerful strokes when he has no time for a big arm swing. A big arm swing is also usually not advised in badminton because bigger swings make it more difficult to recover for the next shot in fast exchanges. The use of grip tightening is crucial to these techniques, and is often described as \"finger power\". Elite players develop finger power to the extent that they can hit some power strokes, such as net kills, with less than a racquet swing.\n\nIt is also possible to reverse this style of deception, by suggesting a powerful stroke before slowing down the hitting action to play a soft stroke. In general, this latter style of deception is more common in the rear court (for example, drop shots disguised as smashes), whereas the former style is more common in the forecourt and midcourt (for example, lifts disguised as net shots).\n\nDeception is not limited to slicing and short hitting actions. Players may also use \"double motion\", where they make an initial racquet movement in one direction before withdrawing the racquet to hit in another direction. Players will often do this to send opponents in the wrong direction. The racquet movement is typically used to suggest a straight angle but then play the stroke crosscourt, or vice versa. \"Triple motion\" is also possible, but this is very rare in actual play. An alternative to double motion is to use a \"racquet head fake\", where the initial motion is continued but the racquet is turned during the hit. This produces a smaller change in direction but does not require as much time.\n\nTo win in badminton, players need to employ a wide variety of strokes in the right situations. These range from powerful jumping smashes to delicate tumbling net returns. Often rallies finish with a smash, but setting up the smash requires subtler strokes. For example, a net shot can force the opponent to lift the shuttlecock, which gives an opportunity to smash. If the net shot is tight and tumbling, then the opponent's lift will not reach the back of the court, which makes the subsequent smash much harder to return.\n\nDeception is also important. Expert players prepare for many different strokes that look identical and use slicing to deceive their opponents about the speed or direction of the stroke. If an opponent tries to anticipate the stroke, he may move in the wrong direction and may be unable to change his body momentum in time to reach the shuttlecock.\n\nSince one person needs to cover the entire court, singles tactics are based on forcing the opponent to move as much as possible; this means that singles strokes are normally directed to the corners of the court. Players exploit the length of the court by combining lifts and clears with drop shots and net shots. Smashing tends to be less prominent in singles than in doubles because the smasher has no partner to follow up his effort and is thus vulnerable to a skillfully placed return. Moreover, frequent smashing can be exhausting in singles where the conservation of a player's energy is at a premium. However, players with strong smashes will sometimes use the shot to create openings, and players commonly smash weak returns to try to end rallies.\n\nIn singles, players will often start the rally with a forehand high serve or with a flick serve. Low serves are also used frequently, either forehand or backhand. Drive serves are rare.\n\nAt high levels of play, singles demand extraordinary fitness. Singles is a game of patient positional manoeuvring, unlike the all-out aggression of doubles.\n\nBoth pairs will try to gain and maintain the attack, smashing downwards when the opportunity arises. Whenever possible, a pair will adopt an ideal attacking formation with one player hitting down from the rear court, and his partner in the midcourt intercepting all smash returns except the lift. If the rear court attacker plays a drop shot, his partner will move into the forecourt to threaten the net reply. If a pair cannot hit downwards, they will use flat strokes in an attempt to gain the attack. If a pair is forced to lift or clear the shuttlecock, then they must defend: they will adopt a side-by-side position in the rear midcourt, to cover the full width of their court against the opponents' smashes. In doubles, players generally smash to the middle ground between two players in order to take advantage of confusion and clashes.\n\nAt high levels of play, the backhand serve has become popular to the extent that forehand serves have become fairly rare at a high level of play. The straight low serve is used most frequently, in an attempt to prevent the opponents gaining the attack immediately. Flick serves are used to prevent the opponent from anticipating the low serve and attacking it decisively.\n\nAt high levels of play, doubles rallies are extremely fast. Men's doubles are the most aggressive form of badminton, with a high proportion of powerful jump smashes and very quick reflex exchanges. Because of this, spectator interest is sometimes greater for men's doubles than for singles.\n\nIn mixed doubles, both pairs typically try to maintain an attacking formation with the woman at the front and the man at the back. This is because the male players are usually substantially stronger, and can, therefore, produce smashes that are more powerful. As a result, mixed doubles require greater tactical awareness and subtler positional play. Clever opponents will try to reverse the ideal position, by forcing the woman towards the back or the man towards the front. In order to protect against this danger, mixed players must be careful and systematic in their shot selection.\n\nAt high levels of play, the formations will generally be more flexible: the top women players are capable of playing powerfully from the back-court, and will happily do so if required. When the opportunity arises, however, the pair will switch back to the standard mixed attacking position, with the woman in front and men in the back.\n\nThe Badminton World Federation (BWF) is the internationally recognized governing body of the sport responsible for conduction of tournaments and approaching fair play. Five regional confederations are associated with the BWF:\n\n\nThe BWF organizes several international competitions, including the Thomas Cup, the premier men's international team event first held in 1948–1949, and the Uber Cup, the women's equivalent first held in 1956–1957. The competitions now take place once every two years. More than 50 national teams compete in qualifying tournaments within continental confederations for a place in the finals. The final tournament involves 12 teams, following an increase from eight teams in 2004. It was further increased to 16 teams in 2012.\n\nThe Sudirman Cup, a gender-mixed international team event held once every two years, began in 1989. Teams are divided into seven levels based on the performance of each country. To win the tournament, a country must perform well across all five disciplines (men's doubles and singles, women's doubles and singles, and mixed doubles). Like association football (soccer), it features a promotion and relegation system at every level. However, the system was last used in 2009 and teams competing will now be grouped by world rankings.\n\nBadminton was a demonstration event at the 1972 and 1988 Summer Olympics. It became an official Summer Olympic sport at the Barcelona Olympics in 1992 and its gold medals now generally rate as the sport's most coveted prizes for individual players.\n\nIn the BWF World Championships, first held in 1977, currently only the highest ranked 64 players in the world, and a maximum of four from each country can participate in any category. In both the Olympic and BWF World competitions restrictions on the number of participants from any one country have caused some controversy because they sometimes result in excluding elite world level players from the strongest badminton nations. The Thomas, Uber, and Sudirman Cups, the Olympics, and the BWF World (and World Junior Championships), are all categorized as level one tournaments.\n\nAt the start of 2007, the BWF introduced a new tournament structure for the highest level tournaments aside from those in level one: the BWF Super Series. This level two tournament series, a tour for the world's elite players, stage twelve open tournaments around the world with 32 players (half the previous limit). The players collect points that determine whether they can play in Super Series Finals held at the year-end. Among the tournaments in this series is the venerable All-England Championships, first held in 1900, which was once considered the unofficial world championships of the sport.\n\nLevel three tournaments consist of Grand Prix Gold and Grand Prix event. Top players can collect the world ranking points and enable them to play in the BWF Super Series open tournaments. These include the regional competitions in Asia (Badminton Asia Championships) and Europe (European Badminton Championships), which produce the world's best players as well as the Pan America Badminton Championships.\n\nThe level four tournaments, known as International Challenge, International Series, and Future Series, encourage participation by junior players.\n\nBadminton is frequently compared to tennis. The following is a list of manifest differences:\n\nStatistics such as the smash speed, above, prompt badminton enthusiasts to make other comparisons that are more contentious. For example, it is often claimed that badminton is the fastest racquet sport. Although badminton holds the record for the fastest initial speed of a racquet sports projectile, the shuttlecock decelerates substantially faster than other projectiles such as tennis balls. In turn, this qualification must be qualified by consideration of the distance over which the shuttlecock travels: a smashed shuttlecock travels a shorter distance than a tennis ball during a serve.\n\nWhile fans of badminton and tennis often claim that their sport is the more physically demanding, such comparisons are difficult to make objectively because of the differing demands of the games. No formal study currently exists evaluating the physical condition of the players or demands during gameplay.\n\nBadminton and tennis techniques differ substantially. The lightness of the shuttlecock and of badminton racquets allow badminton players to make use of the wrist and fingers much more than tennis players; in tennis, the wrist is normally held stable, and playing with a mobile wrist may lead to injury. For the same reasons, badminton players can generate power from a short racquet swing: for some strokes such as net kills, an elite player's swing may be less than . For strokes that require more power, a longer swing will typically be used, but the badminton racquet swing will rarely be as long as a typical tennis swing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "624938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624938", "title": "Bankers Life Fieldhouse", "text": "Bankers Life Fieldhouse\n\nBankers Life Fieldhouse is an indoor arena located in Downtown Indianapolis, Indiana, United States. It opened in November 1999 to replace Market Square Arena. The arena is the home of the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association and the Indiana Fever of the Women's National Basketball Association. The Fieldhouse also hosts college basketball games (including the annual Big Ten Conference tournaments), indoor concerts, and ice hockey.\n\nIt was originally named Conseco Fieldhouse, as the naming rights to the venue were sold to Conseco, a financial services organization based in nearby Carmel, Indiana. In May 2010, the company renamed itself as CNO Financial Group, but the Conseco name was retained by the Fieldhouse. In December 2011, CNO Financial Group changed the name of the Fieldhouse to Bankers Life Fieldhouse, after one of its subsidiaries, Bankers Life and Casualty. The fieldhouse announced on March 13, 2018, that CNO had decided not to renew its naming sponsorship, which will expire on June 30, 2019.\n\nUnlike most other North American sports arenas, the Fieldhouse was designed primarily for basketball. The arena can accommodate an NHL-sized rink, but the seating capacity is reduced to 12,300 for ice hockey, as the seating arrangement is asymmetrical.\n\nThe first NBA game held at Bankers Life Fieldhouse was on November 6, 1999 when the Indiana Pacers played their regular-season home opener against the Boston Celtics. Later that same season, the Pacers made it to the 2000 NBA Finals against the Los Angeles Lakers. Games 3, 4, and 5 of that championship series were held at Bankers Life Fieldhouse, but the Pacers ended up losing that season's title 4 games to 2.\n\nSome of the games of 2002 FIBA World Championship were played at Bankers Life Fieldhouse, including semifinals and the final.\n\nIn 2009, Bankers Life Fieldhouse was the site for the 2009 WNBA Finals. The Indiana Fever took on the Phoenix Mercury for games three and four of that series, but ended up losing the series. Three years later, the Fever hosted the 2012 WNBA Finals for games 3 & 4 and beat the Minnesota Lynx.\nBankers Life Fieldhouse is a host venue for many different events besides home games for the Pacers and Fever. From 2002 to 2007, the venue served as the site of the Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Tournament in even numbered years while the tournament was held at the United Center in Chicago in odd numbered years. In 2008, the tournament was moved to Bankers Life Fieldhouse exclusively for five years, through 2012. The arena is also a frequent site of the Big Ten Women's Basketball Tournament. 2012 will mark the 12th time in 13 years that the tournament has been held at the Fieldhouse. On June 5, 2011, the Big Ten Conference announced that beginning in 2013 the location of both of the conference basketball tournaments for the following four years would be alternated between the Chicago area and Indianapolis. Bankers Life Fieldhouse would again be the site for both men's and women's events in 2014 and 2016. The 2011 NCAA Women's Final Four was also held at the Fieldhouse on April 3 and April 5 of 2011. For basketball, the venue seats 17,923 (18,345 from 1999 to 2006, 18,165 from 2006-2016).\n\nAdditionally, the Indiana Firebirds of the Arena Football League played at the Fieldhouse from 2001 to 2004. The venue also hosted select games for the Indiana Ice of the United States Hockey League.\n\nThe Professional Bull Riders brought its Built Ford Tough Series bull riding tour to the Fieldhouse for the first time in January 2011. It was their second visit to Indianapolis; they first visited Indianapolis during the 2004 season when they held a BFTS event at the RCA Dome.\n\nIn addition to professional events, the arena also hosts the IHSAA state finals in wrestling as well as both girls and boys basketball. It also occasionally hosts other high school tournaments as well.\n\nWWE has hosted many shows such as \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\".\n\nWCW has hosted the PPV event Sin (2001).\n\nIt also hosted many PPV events such as The Great American Bash (2006), SummerSlam (2008), Survivor Series (2012), and Clash of Champions (2016).\n\nThe Fieldhouse is notable for being the location of many landmark moments for the professional wrestling group The Shield, who debuted on November 18, 2012 at Survivor Series, broke up on the June 2nd, 2014 episode of WWE Raw and reunited on the October 9th, 2017 episode of WWE Raw.\n\nIn 2015, the Fieldhouse hosted the Indy Invitational, with midget car racing and outlaw kart racing held on a dirt track erected on the arena floor.\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Bankers Life Fieldhouse was ranked the No. 1 venue in the NBA according to the Sports Business Journal/Sports Business Daily Reader Survey. In 2006 The Ultimate Sports Road Trip reaffirmed Bankers Life Fieldhouse as the best venue in all 4 of the major sports leagues. \"The Ultimate Sports Road Trip has recently concluded a re-scoring and re-evaluation of all 122 franchises in the four major sports, based on our personal visits to each of the teams in a journey that began in 1998. Based on our criteria, Bankers Life Fieldhouse has again withstood scrutiny to be named the \"best of the best\" in the four major sports. Everything about Bankers Life Fieldhouse is top notch, a sparkling venue in a sparkling city,\" said Farrell and Kulyk.\n\nIn October 2004, the Fieldhouse hosted the 2004 FINA Short Course World Swimming Championships. A 25 meter 300,000 gallon competition pool and 174,000 gallon warm-up pool were temporarily installed. A total of 71,659 tickets were sold for the four-day event. The crowd on the evening of Saturday, October 11, 2004 set a record for the largest attendance at a U.S. Swimming event outside of the Olympics with 11,488 people.\n\nIn 2012, a giant state-of-the-art scoreboard was added to Bankers Life Fieldhouse. The scoreboard features twin 1080p high definition (HD) video screens, each measuring 50 feet long – extending nearly foul line to foul line – by 21 feet high. In addition to the HD screens running the length of the court, the innovative rectangular scoreboard design is capped by a 25’ by 14’ full 1080p HD video screen facing each baseline. The result of the design is a greatly improved visual experience from nearly every seat in the building. Additionally, a new sound system was installed.\n\n"}
{"id": "31703332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31703332", "title": "Belgian Bowl XIV", "text": "Belgian Bowl XIV\n\nThe Belgian Bowl XIV was played on June 3, 2001 and was won by the Izeghem Redskins. 700 people attended the final in the stadium of RC Gent.\n\n"}
{"id": "3313179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313179", "title": "Benin at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Benin at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nBenin competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23740465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23740465", "title": "Bolivia at the 1995 Pan American Games", "text": "Bolivia at the 1995 Pan American Games\n\nThe 12th Pan American Games were held in Mar del Plata, Argentina from March 11 to March 26, 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "5218910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5218910", "title": "Braehead Arena", "text": "Braehead Arena\n\nThe Braehead Arena is a multi-purpose arena in Renfrewshire, Scotland. The arena was built in 1999, and is located within the Braehead Complex.\nThe Arena was formerly the home of the Scottish Eagles ice hockey club and is now the home to the expansion Glasgow Clan ice hockey team of the Elite Ice Hockey League.\n\nThe arena is currently home to two ice hockey teams, Glasgow Clan and Paisley Pirates. It has also hosted a variety of local sporting events and concerts.\n\nBetween 1–9 April, it hosted the 2000 Ford World Curling Championship for men and women.\n\n\nOn 8 June, it hosted Ricky Burn's fight against fellow Briton Gary Harrison a minute and a half into the first of four rounds by way of TKO.\n\nOn 19 October, it hosted Ricky Burn's fight against fellow Briton Neil Murray and thirty six seconds into the second of four rounds by way of TKO.\n\nOn 13 and 14 November, it hosted a concert by Oasis as part of their Heathen Chemistry Tour.\n\nOn 19 December, it hosted Pablo Chacón's defence of his WBO Featherweight title against Briton Scott Harrison who beat him on unanimous decision after twelve rounds to become the new champion.\n\nOn 4 November, it hosted a concert by Beyoncé as part of her Dangerously in Love Tour.\n\nOn 29 October, it hosted Ricky Burn's fight against fellow Brit Jeff Thomas and won on points after four rounds.\n\nOn 5 November, it hosted Paul McCloskey's fight against Englishman Billy Smith and won on points after four rounds.\n\nOn 11 November, it hosted Amir Khan's third professional fight against fellow Briton Steve Gethin forty nine seconds into the third of four rounds by way of TKO.\n\nBetween 7–9 April, It hosted Great Britain's 2006 Davis Cup Europe/Africa Zone Group I second round home match against Serbia and Montenegro. The hosts who were seeded were edged out 3–2 by the unseeded visitors and missed out on a place in that years World Group playoff.\n\n2009 Scottish Masters Cup\n\nThe arena also played host to Great Britain's home Davis Cup Men's Tennis Tie against Ukraine in March 2009.\n\nOn 12 July, it hosted the Glasgow audition stages of the sixth series of the ITV singer search programme The X Factor.\n\nOn Saturday 5 December, it hosted the Jocky Wilson Cup.\n\nOn 25 September, it hosted a concert by Tiësto as part of his Kaleidoscope World Tour.\n\nOn 4 December, it hosted Callum Johnson's fight against Republic of Irishman Tommy Tolan and knocked him out in the first of four rounds. That was followed by Ricky Burns defence of his WBO Super Featherweight title against Norwegian Andreas Evensen and through a unanimous decision after twelve rounds.\n\nOn 12 March, it hosted Stephen Simmons professional boxing debut match against fellow Briton Nick Okoth and won 1:36 minutes into the seconds of four rounds by way of TKO. It was followed by James DeGale's tenth professional match which was against Frenchman Alpay Kobal and won 1:37 minutes into the fifth of eight rounds by way of TKO. That was followed by Ricky Burn's defence of his WBO Super Featherweight title against Ghanan Koseph Laryea and won after his opponent retired before the seventh of twelve rounds.\n\nOn 14 March, it hosted Callum Johnson's fight against Englishman Jody Meikle and won on points after four rounds.\n\nIt played host to two of Great Britain's 2011 Davis Cup Europe/Africa Zone Group II home matches. Between 8–10 July, it hosted Great Britain's second round match against Luxembourg. The host who were top seeds hammered the unseeded visitors 4–1 and met unseeded Hungary in the third round between 16–18 September and annihilated the visitors 5–0 and won promotion to the Europe/Africa Zone Group I for next year.\n\nOn 8 and 9 October, it hosted a Bob Dylan concert as part of his Never Ending Tour 2011.\n\nOn 10 March, it hosted Stephen Simmons fourth professional boxing match, this time against Hastings Rasani of Zimbabwe and won with 22 seconds to go in the sixth and final round by way of TKO. That was followed by Ricky Burn's defence of his WBO Super Featherweight title against Namibian Paulus Moses and won on unanimous decision after twelve rounds.\n\nIt played host to two of Great Britain's 2012 Davis Cup Europe/Africa Zone Group I home matches. Between 10–12 February, it hosted Great Britain's first round match against Slovakia. The host who were top unseeded edged out the visitors who were also unseeded 3–2 and met third seeds Belgium in the second round between 6–8 April but were hammered 4–1 and remained in the Europe/Africa Zone Group I for another year.\n\nOn 24 and 25 April, it hosted a JLS concert as part of their 4th Dimensions Tour.\n\nOn 16 October, it hosted a Kelly Clarkson concert as part of her Stronger Tour.\n\nOn 27 June, it hosted Stephen Simmons tenth professional boxing match, this time against Spaniard Wadi Camacho and won 1:01 minutes into the tenth and final round by way of TKO. That was followed by Ricky Burn's fight against Montenegrin Dejan Zlaticanin who beat him on split decision after 12 rounds to win the vacant WBC International Lightweight title.\n"}
{"id": "56155955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56155955", "title": "Burundi at the 2017 Summer Universiade", "text": "Burundi at the 2017 Summer Universiade\n\nBurundi participated at the 2017 Summer Universiade which was held in Taipei, Taiwan.\n\nBurundi sent a delegation consisting of only 2 competitors for the event competing in a single sporting event.Burundi didn't claim any medals at the multi-sport event.\n"}
{"id": "11484448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11484448", "title": "C.D. Malacateco", "text": "C.D. Malacateco\n\nClub Deportivo Malacateco-Coatepeque is a Guatemalan football club based in Malacatán, San Marcos.\n\nThey play their home games in the Estadio Santa Lucía.\n\nNicknamed \"Los Toros\", the club was founded on 8 September 1962 after a merger of clubs \"Morazán\", \"Interrogación\" and \"Juvenil\" and by initiative of Humberto Bermúdez, Evelio de León, Felipe Sánchez, José María Munguía, José Rivera, Vicente López and Feliciano Boj. Forty five years later, they earned their historic promotion to \"Liga Mayor\" by defeating Juventud Retalteca 3–0 (3–2 agg.) in the \"Primera División de Ascenso\" 2007 \"Clausura\" final. This was also the first time in \"Primera División de Ascenso\" history that the same team won both the \"Apertura\" and \"Clausura\" tournaments, thus being automatically promoted without a need of an \"extra\" game. In 2008, they were relegated to Primera División after ending in last place in the Liga Mayor. In 2010, the club returned to the top division in Guatemala.\n\nIn November 2010, first team squad member Carlos Mercedes Vásquez was kidnapped and murdered. A note on his body parts claimed he was killed for messing with another man's woman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1335181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1335181", "title": "Competitive swimwear", "text": "Competitive swimwear\n\n<onlyinclude>\nCompetitive swimwear refers to the swimsuit, clothing, equipment and accessories used in the aquatic sports of swimming, diving, synchronized swimming, triathlon and water polo.\n\nSome swimsuits are designed specifically for swimming competitions where they may be constructed of a special low resistance fabric that reduces skin drag. For some kinds of swimming and diving, special bodysuits called \"diveskins\" are worn. These suits are made from spandex and provide little thermal protection, but they do protect the skin from stings and abrasion. Most competitive swimmers also wear special swimsuits including partial bodysuits, racerback styles, jammers and racing briefs to assist their glide through the water thus gaining a speed advantage.\n\nUnlike regular swimsuits, which are designed mainly for the aesthetic appearances, swimsuits designed to be worn during competitions are manufactured to assist the athlete in swim competitions. They reduce friction and drag in the water, increasing the efficiency of the swimmer's forward motion. The tight fits allow for easy movement and are said to reduce muscle vibration, thus reducing drag. This also reduces the possibility that a high forwards dive will remove a divers swimwear. Starting around 2000, in an effort to improve the effectiveness of the swimsuits, engineers have taken to designing them to replicate the skin of sea-based animals, sharks in particular.\n\nIn July 2009, FINA voted to ban non-textile (non-woven) swimsuits in competitive events from 2010. The new policy was implemented to combat the issues associated with performance enhancing swimsuits, hindering the ability to accurately measure the performance of swimmers. Subsequently, the new ruling states that men's swimsuits may maximally cover the area from the navel to the knee, and women's counterparts from the shoulder to the knee.\n\nSome swimmers use a specialized training suit called drag suits to artificially increase drag during practice. Drag suits are swimwear with an outer layer of looser fabric – often mesh or nylon – to increase resistance against the water and build up the swimmer's endurance. They come in a variety of styles, but most resemble a looser fitting square-cut or swim brief.\n</onlyinclude>\n\nThe history of competitive swimwear has been dominated by concerns over public nudity in the first half of the 20th century and by efforts to reduce water drag in the second half. Those efforts initially lead male swimmers to reduce the early sagging one-piece swimsuits down to briefs only.\n\nWith the development of new materials that tightly fit the body and offered lower resistance to water than human skin, this trend was reversed to a complete body coverage from heels to neck and wrists. In 1999, Australian competitive swimmer Ian Thorpe signed with Adidas for an undisclosed six-figure sum, to race in their new bodysuit, although the national team was sponsored and wore outfits designed by Speedo. Thorpe's success in the 2000 Summer Olympics wearing the Adidas full-length black polyurethane bodysuit, in contrast to other swimmers wearing textile swimwear (males wore legskins, jammers, or briefs, while females wore racerback maillots), led to other swimming manufacturers such as Speedo and Mizuno to create their own rival bodysuits. Thorpe subsequently worked with Adidas which in 2003 released the adidas JETCONCEPT bodysuit, whose design \"came from the V-shaped grooves currently used on the wings and fuselage of civil aircraft\".\n\nThe LZR Pro and LZR Elite lines were launched on 13 February 2008, with the LZR Elite being marketed as \"the world's fastest swimsuit.\" It was the focus of Speedo's campaign for the 2008 Summer Olympics, spearheaded by Michael Phelps of the United States. They created a holographic (visually generated) video of Phelps wearing the suit which was displayed in London, Sydney, New York, and Tokyo on the day of the suit's release. Speedo's LZR Racer had become so effective by the eve of the 2008 Summer Olympics that many swimmers, despite them or their swimming federations having exclusive contracts with other apparel makers, have chosen the LZR Racer over competing bodysuits. At that year's Olympics in Beijing, 94% of all swimming races were won in that suit, while 98% of all medals were won by swimmers wearing that suit, and 23 out of the 25 world records broken were achieved by swimmers competing in the LZR suit. , 93 world records had been broken by swimmers wearing a LZR Racer, and 33 of the first 36 Olympic medals have been won wearing it.\n\nIn 2009, FINA rules and regulations were altered, effective from 1 January 2010. Suits made with polyurethane were banned because they made athletes more buoyant. These rules also banned suits which go above the navel or below the knee for men and suits which extend past the shoulders or cover the neck for women FINA stated that it \"wishes to recall the main and core principle is that swimming is a sport essentially based on the physical performance of the athlete\".\n\nGoggles were used in the crossing of the English Channel back in 1911, but only in 1970 appeared at international competitions.\n\nWith the advent of rubber technology, latex swimming caps became mass-produced in the 1920s, and more efficient silicone caps appeared in the 1970s.\n\nA bodyskin is a style of competitive swimwear worn by both female and male athletes. Bodyskins are normally made of technologically advanced lycra-based fabrics designed to hug the body tightly and provide increased speed and decreased drag resistance in the water.\n\nThe bodyskin resembles the design of a dive skin, commonly used by snorkelers and scuba divers for warm weather climates. The primary distinguishing feature is the material from which the bodyskin suit is made.\n\nSome bodysuits provide full body coverage from the ankles to the neck and wrists, such as Ian Thorpe's adidas JETCONCEPT bodysuit which made its debut in 2003, Thorpe previously wore an earlier Adidas black bodysuit design in the 2000 Summer Olympics. Sleeveless designs such as the Speedo LZR Racer was popular in the 2008 Summer Olympics; Speedo also produces a bodyskin designed specifically for the backstroke. Other competing bodysuits include Acquablade, Fastskin, and Sharkskin, which are produced by Mizuno, Asics, Descente, Arena, and Nike.\n\nSwimmers reported that bodyskins improved buoyancy. This is true as long as the suits remain dry. As such, they are recommended for distances under 200m.\n\nThe national coach of a small country stated that the suits need exact sizing and resulting high cost \"increas[ed] the disparity between the haves and have nots.\" As with most technologically advanced fabric swimwear, bodyskins were only commonly used at highly competitive levels of the swimming sport and are known to sell for prices in excess of US$400. Despite their cost, a single bodysuit can only be used for a handful of races, as getting in and out of the suit repeatedly would damage its form-fitting properties, memorably when Ian Thorpe tore his Adidas bodysuit right before the 4x100 men's freestyle relay podium ceremony in the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n\nBodyskins were banned from FINA competitions from the start of 2010 after many national swimming federations demanded the action, and leading athletes such as Michael Phelps and Rebecca Adlington criticised the suits. They continue to be used for other purposes, including research.\n\nA swim brief refers to any briefs style male swimsuit such as those worn in competitive swimming and diving. The popularity of the Australian Speedo (est. 1928) brand racing brief has led to the use of its name in some countries (e.g. the United States) to refer to any racing brief, regardless of the maker. Occasionally, the Speedo genericized trademark also applies to square cut swimsuits, but in general the generic term is used in reference to swim briefs. Swim briefs are also referred to as competition briefs, bathers, racer bathers, posing briefs, racing briefs, and colloquially in Australia as \"budgie smugglers\".\n\nLike underwear briefs, swim briefs feature a V-shape front and a solid back providing form-fitting coverage. They typically are worn below the lower waist. They are generally secured by thin banding at the upper thighs and either a drawstring around the waist or an elastic waistband. Swim briefs are most often made of a nylon and spandex (Lycra) composite, while some longer lasting suits are made from polyester and still others from other materials. Most swim briefs have a beige or white front lining made of a similar fabric.\n\nA drag suit is a pair of baggy squarecut or brief-style trunks that competitive swimmers may wear over their normal suit to provide extra resistance (\"drag\") from the water. This allows the swimmer to get more out of their training than they would without a drag suit. Drag suits are meant to be worn over a long period of time to wear in the material and possibly tear the fabric. The more worn-in, torn or ripped the drag suit, the more resistance it provides the swimmer. Since drag suits make swimming more difficult, swimmers do not wear drag suits in competition. Drag suits originated as older swimsuits at the end of their useful life that swimmers would then wear over another suit.\n\nA kneeskin is a type of competitive swimwear worn by both male and female athletes. Kneeskins are normally made of technologically advanced lycra-based fabrics designed to hug the body tightly and provide increased speed and decreased drag resistance in the water.\n\nThe kneeskin is similar in design to the full bodyskin absent the leggings beyond the knee. It also resembles a \"shortie\" style wetsuit only made of drag-reducing fabric instead of neoprene and commonly features a zippered back. Most competitive swimwear brands such as the Speedo LZR Racer line, Tyr Sport, Inc. and Arena Powerskin line produce suits of this type. As with most technologically advanced fabric swimwear, kneeskin suits are only commonly used at highly competitive levels of the swimming sport and are known to sell for prices in excess of US$200.\n\nA jammer is a style of swimsuit worn by male swimmers, used mainly in competition to obtain speed advantages. They are generally made of nylon and lycra/spandex material, but may be made of polyester, and have a form fitting design to reduce water resistance. They provide moderate coverage from the mid-waist to the area above the knee, somewhat resembling cycling shorts or compression shorts worn by many athletes. They provide greater leg coverage than swim briefs and square leg suits, although they also have slightly more water resistance.\n\nA legskin is a type of competitive swimwear worn by male swimmers. Most legskins are made of technologically advanced lycra-based fabrics designed to hug the body tightly and provide increased speed and decreased drag resistance in the water. The legskin covers from the swimmer's mid-waist to his ankle and resembles leggings. One advantage of the legskin over other suit styles that cover the arms is flexibility, especially for strokes that require broad arm movement.\n\nSince 2009, legskins have been banned for competition swimming by FINA since they gave an unfair advantage to swimmers who wore them; the ban includes bodysuits.\n\nA racerback is a type of women's swimsuit design common today among competitive swimwear and incorporated into some types of women's clothing. The top-back of the swimsuit is not covered to provide flexibility and movement of the arms during swimming.\n\nThe square cut or square leg style suit is a form-fitting male swimsuit used as a slightly less revealing style than swim briefs for water polo and diving, or for recreational wear. Like swim briefs, they are made of a nylon and spandex blend. They typically sit low on the waist and high on the thigh, but provide more coverage for the upper leg than briefs. The square-cut style was popular as a recreational swimsuit for men during the 1950s.\n\nSuits of this type are named for the coverage that they provide to the upper thighs due to a square seam opening for the leg. Square leg suits range in appearance from those similar to swim briefs with a slightly straighter front and wider side panelling (eliminating the arc appearance on the leg), to those resembling boxer briefs by providing an inch or more of fabric coverage over the upper section of the leg.\n\nThe square leg suit of the 1970s made a fashion revival in Australia in 2002 with the introduction of colorful floral and retro geometric patterned suits by swimwear label Funky Trunks. The style is popular amongst competitive swimmers for pool training and for recreational swimmers in the pool and at the beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "28427632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28427632", "title": "Cricket for Change", "text": "Cricket for Change\n\nCricket for Change (C4C), registered as the London Community Cricket Association, is a UK charity established in 1981 to provide support for young disadvantaged people to be able to take part in cricket events. Programmes include providing cricket facilities, training, disabled access to cricket, establishing cricket projects in deprived inner-city estates and providing coaching and practical support for other charities internationally.\n\n\nC4C's projects to support cricket for inner-city areas has wide recognition, in particular for young people who may be vulnerable to becoming involved in crime. The charity has contributed to the Government's Home Affairs Select Committee due to its track record in supporting crime prevention.\n\nIn 2008 and 2009 C4C were guests of the Israel Cricket Association, to work in and around Beersheba, near the Gaza border. The project was to start initiatives for \"Street20 cricket\" using plastic bats and wickets and a tennis ball wrapped in electrical tape.\nThe United States of America Cricket Association partnered with C4C to establish Blind cricket in the USA in 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6168251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6168251", "title": "Downhill Racer", "text": "Downhill Racer\n\nDownhill Racer is a 1969 American sports drama film starring Robert Redford, Gene Hackman and Camilla Sparv, and was the directorial debut of Michael Ritchie. Written by James Salter, based on the 1963 novel \"The Downhill Racers\" by Oakley Hall, the film is about a talented downhill skier who joins the United States ski team in Europe to compete in international skiing competitions. Sylvester Stallone appeared in one scene as an extra.\n\n\"Downhill Racer\" was filmed on location in Kitzbühel and Sankt Anton am Arlberg in Austria, Wengen, Switzerland, Megève and Grenoble in France, and Boulder and Idaho Springs in Colorado, United States. The film received positive reviews upon its theatrical release, with Roger Ebert calling it \"the best movie ever made about sports—without really being about sports at all.\"\n\nAmerican downhill skier David Chappellet (Robert Redford) arrives in Wengen, Switzerland, to join the U.S. ski team, along with fellow newcomer D. K. Bryan (Kenneth Kirk). Both men were sent for by team coach Eugene Claire (Gene Hackman) to replace one of his top skiers who was recently injured during an FIS competition. Raised in the small town of Idaho Springs, Colorado, Chappellet is a loner with a single-minded focus on becoming a skiing champion, and shows little interest in being a team player. After refusing to race at the Lauberhorn because of a late starting position, he makes his European skiing debut at the Arlberg-Kandahar in Austria, where he finishes in an impressive fourth position. In the final race of the season at the Hahnenkamm-Rennen in Kitzbühel, Austria, he crashes.\n\nThat summer, Chappellet joins the team in Oregon for off-season training, and visits his father at his home in Idaho Springs, but they have little to say to each other. Chappellet drives into town and picks up an old girlfriend and they make love in the back seat of his father's old Chevrolet. Afterwards, he shows little interest in the girl's feelings. Later, when his father asks him why he is wasting his life on skiing, Chappellet reveals that he is racing as an amateur to become an Olympic champion. His father observes, \"The world's full of 'em.\"\n\nBack in France that winter, Chappellet wins the Grand Prix de Megève in France and soon attracts the attention of Machet (Karl Michael Vogler), a ski manufacturer who wants Chappellet to use his skis for the advertising value. Chappellet is more interested in Machet's attractive assistant Carole Stahl (Camilla Sparv). After a chance encounter at a bakery, he and Carole spend some time with each other. They meet up again in Wengen, ski the slopes together, and eventually make love.\n\nAt Kitzbühel, Chappellet wins the Hahnenkamm, but afterwards his cockiness alienates his teammates and his coach who feel he is only out for himself. The team's top racer, Johnny Creech (Jim McMullan), tells assistant coach Mayo (Dabney Coleman), \"He's never been for the team, and he never will be.\" Mayo responds, \"Well it's not exactly a team sport, is it?\" Chappellet finishes the season with several impressive victories ensuring his place on next season's Olympic team.\n\nDuring the off-season, Chappellet and Carole continue to see each other. At the start of the third season, he calls her from Megève asking to spend Christmas with her. After waiting several days alone, Chappellet realizes that she is not coming. He travels to Zurich to Machet's office to find her, but learns she is spending Christmas with her family. The next week, Chappellet runs into Carole in Wengen and is annoyed that she never called and that she is with another man. After a brief confrontation, he realizes their relationship is over.\n\nTwo weeks before the Olympics, after a day of training at Wengen, Chappellet challenges Creech to a one-on-one race, and the two take off to the bottom as the coaches looks on in horror. On the way down, Chappellet forces Creech into the stone wall of a narrow-arched bridge (Jungfrau railway overpass \"Wasserstation\"), and Creech barely escapes injury. The next day, during the Lauberhorn race, Creech is seriously injured during his run, leaving Chappellet as the team's best hope for an Olympic gold medal.\n\nAt the Winter Olympics, with Austrian champion Max Meier in first place, Chappellet uncorks one of his best runs, beating Meier's time and ending up in first place with all the highly-ranked racers having already run. He is thronged by elated fans and teammates in the finish area. However, on the course, an unheralded German skier in a later seed is turning in very fast split times. The fans fall quiet, and Chappellet takes notice of the German, watching nervously. As the German approaches the final schuss, he crashes, and Chappellet becomes an Olympic gold medal champion. The German makes his way to the finish area, and Chappellet looks into his eyes briefly before being carried off in victory.\n\nThe screenplay for \"Downhill Racer\" is loosely based on the 1963 novel \"The Downhill Racers\" by Oakley Hall. In 1966, the film rights to the book passed from director Mark Robson to Paramount Pictures for producer Steve Alexander and screenwriter Graham Ferguson. After attempts to develop the project stalled, the new head of Paramount production, Robert Evans, used the project to entice Roman Polanski, a skiing enthusiast, to direct the film \"Rosemary's Baby\" for the studio. Although Robert Redford passed on Polanski's offer to star in both films, the young actor soon attached himself to the skiing film, taking it on as a pet project. Redford soon persuaded novelist James Salter to write a screenplay for the film, introducing him to Polanski and his partner, Gene Gutowski, who agreed to work on the film.\n\nJames Salter prepared notes for the story, which did not resemble Hall's novel—Salter had not even read the book. Salter's starting point for the story was provided by Polanski, who told the writer that the film should be a modern-day \"High Noon\", where the sheriff is killed and someone is called in to replace him. For the film, the \"sheriff\" is the lead racer on the team who breaks his leg, and Chappellet is called in to replace him. Focused on directing \"Rosemary's Baby\", Polanski soon left the project, and the studio sued Redford for walking away from the starring role. Redford later revived the project by pitching the story to Gulf+Western owner Charles Bluhdorn. Soon after, Redford found his director and decided to make the film cheaply in Europe. Charles Bluhdorn, who was Austrian, may have influenced the decision on film locations; he created the production company Wildwood.\n\nIn January 1968, Redford and Salter traveled to Grenoble and accompanied the U. S. ski team — traveling on buses, sleeping in hallways, taking in the atmosphere, and observing the athletes. One night in Grenoble, they discussed the central character of David Chappellet. Salter's inspiration for the character was the 1964 Olympic silver medal winner Billy Kidd of Vermont, who conveyed an \"arrogant and aloof\" quality. Redford, however, saw the Chappellet character as being more like Spider Sabich, the dynamic skier from rural California, who finished fifth that year in the slalom. While the character ultimately took on aspects of both role models, Salter's original scenes of tense dynamics between Chappellet and the coach survived the writing process. The original inspiration for the character is said to be Colorado's Buddy Werner of Steamboat Springs, (Chappellet was said to be from Idaho Springs, Colorado). Werner burst upon the downhill racing scene in Europe in the late 1950s and was the first American to win an F.I.S. downhill race. He was known for a reckless style but broke his leg in training two months before the 1960 Winter Olympics at Squaw Valley in which he would have been a favorite for a medal in the downhill. Werner died in an avalanche in Switzerland in 1964, while performing for a film crew.\n\nAs director Michael Ritchie admired the work of British director Ken Loach, Ritchie hired Brian Probyn and Kevin Sutton, the cameraman and sound man from Loach's film \"Poor Cow\".\n\n\"Downhill Racer\" was filmed on location in Wengen, Switzerland, Kitzbühel and Sankt Anton am Arlberg in Austria, Megève and Grenoble in France, and Boulder and Idaho Springs in Colorado, United States. Parts of the film were also shot at Sundance in Utah. Most of the skiing footage was shot from January 11 to February 1, 1969, during four World Cup races: Internationales Lauberhorn in Wengen, Internationales Hahnenkamm-Rennen in Kitzbühel, Grand Prix de Megève, and Arlberg-Kandahar in Sankt Anton am Arlberg. The off-season scenes were filmed in Colorado: the track scene at Potts Field on the east campus of the University of Colorado in Boulder, and the hometown street scenes in Idaho Springs, west of Denver. The interior scenes of Chappellet's Idaho Springs house were filmed at Paramount Studios in southern California.\n\nSylvester Stallone appeared as an extra in the restaurant scene. A rare theater book listed that he was in this film. As Stallone was only an extra, he has no billing in the credits, and this book is now a very rare, collectors item.\n\n\"Downhill Racer\" was released to theaters in the United States in late 1969, premiering in New York City on November 6. It was re-released in the U.S. in July 1984 at the FILMEX: Los Angeles International Film Exposition for a 50-hour Sports Movie Marathon on July 5–20.\n\n\"Downhill Racer\" was released on DVD in Region 2 format on August 13, 2007 by Paramount Home Entertainment. The Criterion Collection DVD was released November 17, 2009.\n\nThe film was released just two weeks after \"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid\", giving Redford two box office hits at the same time.\n\nIn his review for the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Roger Ebert gave the film four out of four stars, calling it \"the best movie ever made about sports—without really being about sports at all.\" In addition to praising the performances of Redford and Hackman, Ebert noted how well the film balanced the exciting action sequences and the less glamorous aspects of an athlete's life. Ebert wrote:\nIn his review for \"The New York Times\", Roger Greenspun called \"Downhill Racer\" \"a very good movie\". Writing about the lead character David Chappellet, Greenspun observed, \"His world is that international society of the well-exercised inarticulate where the good is known as 'really great,' and the bad is signified by silence. In appreciating that world, its pathos, its narcissism, its tensions, and its sufficient moments of glory, \"Downhill Racer\" succeeds with sometimes chilling efficiency.\"\n\nIn his review for \"Life\" magazine, Richard Schickel praised the film for both its esthetic beauty and its depiction of the brutal realities of competition. Schickel wrote:\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27289653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27289653", "title": "Débora Lyra", "text": "Débora Lyra\n\nDébora Lyra (born September 26, 1989) is a Brazilian actress, model and beauty pageant titleholder who won the Miss Brasil 2010. and worldwide winner of Miss Multiverse in 2014.\n\nLyra was born in Vila Velha, but spent two years living in the town of Divinópolis. She was a model since age 8 and had wanted to be Miss Brasil since age 12. With the encouragement of her father, she soon began to participate in and win some beauty contests. She also landed a few modeling jobs, but at 15, she took a break from acting to work in an export company café, where she remained for four years, to help her family pay for their house.\n\nAt 18, she met the state coordinator of Minas Gerais, who invited her to live in Divinópolis and prepared to participate in international beauty contests. She visited various countries such as Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Belarus, Czech Republic, United States (where she stayed for three months) and Bahamas.\n\nLyra won the Miss Minas Gerais 2010 and the Miss Brasil 2010 representing Minas Gerais.\n\nShe competed in the Miss Universe 2010 pageant held on August 23, 2010 in Las Vegas, Nevada, U.S., but failed to place.\n\nBefore Miss Universe Brazil, Debora competed in Miss Terra Brasil 2009 where she became 3rd runner-up or Miss Terra-Fogo (Miss Earth-Fire).\n\nIn 2013, Lyra represented Brazil at the world finals of the Miss Multiverse pageant in the Dominican Republic, she won and became the 4th Miss Multiverse winner.\n\nAlong with her native language of Portuguese, Débora speaks fluent English and Spanish and has visited many countries like Czech Republic, Poland, Italy, Spain, the United States and Germany.\n\nIn 2011, she lost her car, money and personal papers during an attack. In an interview with R7.com, days before passing the crown of Miss Brasil 2011 on to her successor, she said that during her year as Miss Brasil, she passed through various problems and had a depression during which she gained 10 kg. But she overcame all of these problems and is losing weight again.\n\nOn December 27, 2011, Débora Lyra was involved in a severe car crash, for which her spleen has been removed and some interventions in her spine where due. Her mother-in-law died in this accident.\n"}
{"id": "21842474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21842474", "title": "EN Bolama", "text": "EN Bolama\n\nEN Bolama, also known by its full name Estrela Negra de Bolama, is a Guinea-Bissauan football club based in Bolama. It is one of two chief club of the entire Bijagos Archipelago, the other is FC Bijagós, for most of the times, it was the most popular club in the Bijagós Archipelago but remains the most successful. It is an affiliate to the Brazilian club CR Vasco da Gama. They play in the amateur division in Guinean football, the Campeonato Nacional da Guine-Bissau. The club won only a cup title in 1980.\n\nThe club was founded in 1937 and is the oldest club in Bolama and the Bijagos (or Bissagos) Archipelago. In 1975, the club was refounded after independence in 1974.\n\nThe club once played in the First Division with came one time in 2004 and continued in 2005 and 2007, in 2015, the club returned to the First Division and played for only a season, the club finished 14th which was last place with 16 points. In 2015, the club was relegated to the Second Division and currently plays there. In the 2017 season, they finished fifth in Série C of the Second Division.\n\nIts logo color has a seal with a crest in the middle. Its logo and its uniforms are nearly the same as to the Brazilian club CR Vasco da Gama.\n\n\n\"As of the 2014 or the 2015 season\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4236118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4236118", "title": "Egypt at the 1972 Summer Olympics", "text": "Egypt at the 1972 Summer Olympics\n\nEgypt competed at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. The North African nation made its Olympic debut in 1912.\n\nThe Egyptian contingent included 28 male athletes, 1 female athlete and 18 officials. Because of the Munich massacre, some members of the Egyptians contingent left the Olympics early.\n\nMen's 200m Freestyle\n\n"}
{"id": "74700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74700", "title": "Equestrianism", "text": "Equestrianism\n\nEquestrianism (from Latin equester, equestr-, equus, \"horseman\", \"horse\"), more often known as horse riding (British English) or horseback riding (American English), refers to the skill of riding, driving, steeplechasing or vaulting with horses. This broad description includes the use of horses for practical working purposes, transportation, recreational activities, artistic or cultural exercises, and competitive sport.\nHorses are trained and ridden for practical working purposes, such as in police work or for controlling herd animals on a ranch. They are also used in competitive sports including, but not limited to, dressage, endurance riding, eventing, reining, show jumping, tent pegging, vaulting, polo, horse racing, driving, and rodeo (see additional equestrian sports listed later in this article for more examples). Some popular forms of competition are grouped together at horse shows where horses perform in a wide variety of disciplines. Horses (and other equids such as mules) are used for non-competitive recreational riding such as fox hunting, trail riding, or hacking. There is public access to horse trails in almost every part of the world; many parks, ranches, and public stables offer both guided and independent riding. Horses are also used for therapeutic purposes both in specialized para-equestrian competition as well as non-competitive riding to improve human health and emotional development.\n\nHorses are also driven in harness racing, at horse shows, and in other types of exhibition such as historical reenactment or ceremony, often pulling carriages. In some parts of the world, they are still used for practical purposes such as farming.\n\nHorses continue to be used in public service: in traditional ceremonies (parades, funerals), police and volunteer mounted patrols and for mounted search and rescue.\n\nRiding halls enable the training of horse and rider in all weathers as well as indoor competition riding.\n\nThough there is controversy over the exact date horses were domesticated and when they were first ridden, the best estimate is that horses first were ridden approximately 3500 BC. Indirect evidence suggests that horses were ridden long before they were driven. There is some evidence that about 3,000 BC, near the Dnieper River and the Don River, people were using bits on horses, as a stallion that was buried there shows teeth wear consistent with using a bit. However, the most unequivocal early archaeological evidence of equines put to working use was of horses being driven. Chariot burials about 2500 BC present the most direct hard evidence of horses used as working animals. In ancient times chariot warfare was followed by the use of war horses as light and heavy cavalry. The horse played an important role throughout human history all over the world, both in warfare and in peaceful pursuits such as transportation, trade and agriculture. Horses lived in North America, but died out at the end of the Ice Age. Horses were brought back to North America by European explorers, beginning with the second voyage of Columbus in 1493.\n\nHumans appear to have long expressed a desire to know which horse or horses were the fastest, and horse racing has ancient roots. Gambling on horse races appears to go hand-in hand with racing and has a long history as well. Thoroughbreds have the pre-eminent reputation as a racing breed, but other breeds also race.\n\nUnder saddle\n\n\nShow jumping:\n\nIn harness:\n\nEquestrian events were first included in the modern Olympic Games in 1900. By 1912, all three Olympic disciplines still seen today were part of the games. The following forms of competition are recognized worldwide and are a part of the equestrian events at the Olympics. They are governed by the rules of the International Federation for Equestrian Sports (FEI).\n\nThe additional internationally sanctioned but non-Olympic disciplines governed by the FEI are: combined driving; endurance; reining; and vaulting. These disciplines are part of the FEI World Equestrian Games every four years and may hold their own individual World Championships in other years. The FEI also recognizes horseball and tent pegging as its two regional disciplines.\n\nPara-equestrian competition at the international level, including the Paralympics, are also governed by the FEI and offer the following competition events:\n\nThe \"haute école\" (F. \"high school\"), an advanced component of Classical dressage, is a highly refined set of skills seldom used in competition but often seen in demonstration performances.\n\nLeading haute ecole demonstration teams include:\n\nHorse shows are held throughout the world with a tremendous variety of possible events, equipment, attire and judging standards used. However, most forms of horse show competition can be broken into the following broad categories:\n\nIn addition to the classical Olympic events, the following forms of competition are seen. In North America they are referred to as \"English riding\" in contrast with western riding; elsewhere in the world, if a distinction is necessary, they are usually described as \"classic riding\":\n\nWestern riding evolved from the cattle-working and warfare traditions brought to the Americas by the Spanish Conquistadors, and both equipment and riding style evolved to meet the working needs of the cowboy on ranches in the American West.\n\nThough the differences between English and Western riding appear dramatic, there are many similarities. Both styles require riders to have a solid seat, with the hips and shoulders balanced over the feet, with hands independent of the seat so as to avoid disturbing the balance of the horse and interfering with its performance.\n\nThe most noticeable feature of western style riding is in the saddle, which has a substantial tree that provides greater support to horse and rider when working long hours in the saddle. The western saddle features a prominent pommel topped by a horn (a knob used for dallying a lariat after roping an animal), a deep seat and a high cantle. The stirrups are wider and the saddle has rings and ties that allow objects to be attached to the saddle.\n\nWestern horses are asked to perform with a loose rein, controlled by one hand. The standard western bridle lacks a noseband and usually consists of a single set of reins attached to a curb bit that has somewhat longer and looser shanks than the curb of an English Weymouth bridle or a pelham bit. Two styles of Western reins developed: The long split reins of the Texas tradition, which are completely separated, or the closed-end \"Romal\" reins of the California tradition, which have a long single attachment on the ends that can be used as a quirt. Modern rodeo competitors in timed events sometimes use a closed rein without a \"romal\".\n\nWestern riders wear a long-sleeved shirt, denim jeans, boots, and a wide-brimmed cowboy hat. Cowboy boots, which have pointed toes and higher heels than a traditional riding boot, are designed to prevent the rider's foot from slipping through the stirrup during a fall, preventing the rider from being dragged—most western saddles have no safety bars for the leathers or automatic stirrup release mechanism. A rider may wear protective leather leggings called chaps. Clean, well-fitting work clothing is the usual outfit seen in rodeo, cutting and reining competitions, especially for men, though sometimes both men and women wear brighter colors or finer fabrics for competition than for work.\n\nShow events such as Western pleasure use much flashier equipment, unlike the English traditions where clothing and tack is quiet and unobtrusive. Saddles, bits and bridles are ornamented with substantial amounts of silver. The rider may add a jacket or vest, and women's clothing in particular features vivid colors and even, depending on current fads, rhinestones or sequins.\n\nWestern horses are asked to have a brisk, ground-covering walk, but a slow, relaxed jog trot that allows the rider to sit the saddle and not post. The Western version of the canter is called a \"lope\" and while collected and balanced, is expected to be slow and relaxed. Working western horses seldom use a sustained hand gallop, but must be able to accelerate quickly to high speed when chasing cattle or competing in rodeo speed events, must be able to stop quickly from a dead run and \"turn on a dime.\"\n\nHorses, mules and donkeys are driven in harness in many different ways. For working purposes, they can pull a plow or other farm equipment designed to be pulled by animals. In many parts of the world they still pull wagons for basic hauling and transportation. They may draw carriages at ceremonies, in parades or for tourist rides.\n\nAs noted in \"horse racing\" \"above\", horses can race in harness, pulling a very lightweight cart known as a sulky. At the other end of the spectrum, some draft horses compete in horse pulling competitions, where single or teams of horses and their drivers vie to determine who can pull the most weight for a short distance.\n\nIn horse show competition, the following general categories of competition are seen:\n\nRodeo events include the following forms of competition:\n\n\nRoping includes a number of timed events that are based on the real-life tasks of a working cowboy, who often had to capture calves and adult cattle for branding, medical treatment and other purposes. A lasso or lariat is thrown over the head of a calf or the horns of adult cattle, and the animal is secured in a fashion dictated by its size and age.\n\nIn spite of popular myth, most modern \"broncs\" are not in fact wild horses, but are more commonly spoiled riding horses or horses bred specifically as bucking stock.\n\n\nThere are many other forms of equestrian activity and sports seen worldwide. There are both competitive events and pleasure riding disciplines available.\n\n\n\n\n\nHandling, riding and driving horses has a number of health risks.\n\nRiding has some inherent risks, as when mounted, the rider's head may be up to from the ground, and the horse may travel at a speed of up to . The injuries observed range from very minor injuries to fatalities.\n\nA study in Germany reported that the relative risk of injury from riding a horse, compared to riding a bicycle, was 9 times higher for adolescents and 5.6 times higher for younger children, but that riding a horse was less risky than riding a moped. In Victoria, Australia, a search of state records found that equestrian sports had the third highest incidence of serious injury, after motor sports and power boating. In Greece, an analysis of a national registry estimated the incidence of equestrian injury to be 21 per 100,000 person-years for farming and equestrian sports combined, and 160 times higher for horse racing personnel. Other findings noted that helmets likely prevent traumatic brain injuries.\n\nIn the United States each year an estimated 30 million people ride horses, resulting in 50,000 emergency department visits (1 visit per 600 riders per year). A survey of 679 equestrians in Oregon, Washington and Idaho estimated that at some time in their equestrian career one in five will be seriously injured, resulting in hospitalization, surgery or long-term disability. Among survey respondents, novice equestrians had an incidence of any injury that was threefold over intermediates, fivefold over advanced equestrians, and nearly eightfold over professionals. Approximately 100 hours of experience are required to achieve a substantial decline in the risk of injury. The survey authors conclude that efforts to prevent equestrian injury should focus on novice equestrians.\n\nThe most common injury is falling from the horse, followed by being kicked, trampled and bitten. About 3 out of 4 injuries are due to falling, broadly defined. A broad definition of falling often includes being crushed and being thrown from the horse, but when reported separately each of these mechanisms may be more common than being kicked.\n\nIn Canada, a 10-year study of trauma center patients injured while riding reported that although 48% had suffered head injuries, only 9% of these riders had been wearing helmets at the time of their accident. Other injuries involved the chest (54%), abdomen (22%) and extremities (17%). A German study reported that injuries in horse riding are rare compared to other sports, but when they occur they are severe. Specifically, they found that 40% of horse riding injuries were fractures, and only 15% were sprains. Furthermore, the study noted that in Germany, one quarter of all sport related fatalities are caused by horse riding.\nMost horse related injuries are a result of falling from a horse, which is the cause of 60–80% of all such reported injuries. Another common cause of injury is being kicked by a horse, which may cause skull fractures or severe trauma to the internal organs. Some possible injuries resulting from horse riding, with the percent indicating the amounts in relation to all injuries as reported by a New Zealand study, include:\n\nAmong 36 members and employees of the Hong Kong Jockey Club who were seen in a trauma center during a period of 5 years, 24 fell from horses and 11 were kicked by the horse. Injuries comprised: 18 torso; 11 head, face or neck; and 11 limb. The authors of this study recommend that helmets, face shields and body protectors be worn when riding or handling horses.\n\nIn New South Wales, Australia, a study of equestrians seen at one hospital over a 6-year period found that 81% were wearing a helmet at the time of injury, and that helmet use both increased over time and was correlated with a lower rate of admission. In the second half of the study period, of the equestrians seen at a hospital, only 14% were admitted. In contrast, a study of child equestrians seen at a hospital emergency department in Adelaide reported that 60% were admitted.\n\nIn the United States, an analysis of National Electronic Injury Surveillance System (NEISS) data performed by the Equestrian Medical Safety Association studied 78,279 horse-related injuries in 2007: \"The most common injuries included fractures (28.5%); contusions/abrasions (28.3%); strain/sprain (14.5%); internal injury (8.1%); lacerations (5.7%); concussions (4.6%); dislocations (1.9%); and hematomas (1.2%). Most frequent injury sites are the lower trunk (19.6%); head (15.0%); upper trunk (13.4%); shoulder (8.2%); and wrist (6.8%). Within this study patients were treated and released (86.2%), were hospitalized (8.7%), were transferred (3.6%), left without being treated (0.8%), remained for observation (0.6%) and arrived at the hospital deceased (0.1%).\"\n\nHorseback riding is one of the most dangerous sports, especially in relation to head injury. Statistics from the United States, for example, indicate that about 30 million people ride horses annually. On average, about 67,000 people are admitted to the hospital each year from injuries sustained while working with horses. 15,000 of those admittances are from traumatic brain injuries. Of those, about 60 die each year from their brain injuries. Studies have found horseback riding to be more dangerous than several sports, including skiing, auto racing and football. Horseback riding has a higher hospital admittance rate per hours of riding than motorcycle racing, at 0.49 per thousand hours of riding and 0.14 accidents per thousand hours, respectively.\n\nHead injuries are especially traumatic in horseback riding. About two-thirds of all riders requiring hospitalization after a fall have sustained a traumatic brain injury. Falling from a horse without wearing a helmet is comparable to being struck by a car. Most falling deaths are caused by head injury.\n\nThe use of riding helmets substantially decreases the likelihood and severity of head injuries. When a rider falls with a helmet, he or she is five times less likely to experience a traumatic brain injury than a rider who falls without a helmet. Helmets work by crushing on impact and extending the length of time it takes the head to stop moving. Despite this, helmet usage rates in North America are estimated to be between eight and twenty percent.\n\nOnce a helmet has sustained an impact from falling, that part of the helmet is structurally weakened, even if no visible damage is present. Helmet manufacturers recommend that a helmet that has undergone impact from a fall be replaced immediately. In addition, helmets should be replaced every three to five years; specific recommendations vary by manufacturer.\n\nMany organizations mandate helmet use in competition or on show grounds, and rules have continually moved in the direction of requiring helmet use. In 2011, the United States Equestrian Federation passed a rule making helmet use mandatory while mounted on competition grounds at U.S. nationally rated eventing competitions. Also in 2011, the United States Dressage Federation made helmet use in competition mandatory for all riders under 18 and all riders who are riding any test at Fourth Level and below. If a rider competing at Prix St. Georges and above is also riding a test at Fourth Level or below, he or she must also wear a helmet at all times while mounted.\n\nThe idea that riding a horse astride could injure a woman's sex organs is a historic, but sometimes popular even today, misunderstanding or misconception, particularly that riding astride can damage the hymen. Evidence of injury to any female sex organs is scant. In female high-level athletes, trauma to the perineum is rare and is associated with certain sports (see Pelvic floor#Clinical significance). The type of trauma associated with equestrian sports has been termed \"horse riders' perineum\". A case series of 4 female mountain bike riders and 2 female horse riders found both patient-reported perineal pain and evidence of sub-clinical changes in the clitoris; the relevance of these findings to horse riding is unknown.\n\nIn men, sports-related injuries are among the major causes of testicular trauma. In a small controlled but unblinded study of 52 men, varicocele was significantly more common in equestrians than in non-equestrians. The difference between these two groups was small, however, compared to differences reported between extreme mountain bike riders and non-riders, and also between mountain bike riders and on-road bicycle riders. Horse-riding injuries to the scrotum (contusions) and testes (blunt trauma) were well known to surgeons in the 19th century and early 20th century. Injuries from collision with the pommel of a saddle are mentioned specifically.\n\nOrganized welfare groups, such as the Humane Society of the United States, and animal rights groups such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, have been known to criticise some horse sports with claims of animal cruelty.\n\nHorse racing is a popular equestrian sport which is practiced in many nations around the world. It is inextricably associated with gambling, where in certain events, stakes can become very high. Despite its illegality in most competitions, these conditions of extreme competitiveness can lead to the use of performing-enhancing drugs and extreme training techniques, which can result in negative side effects for the horses' well-being.\nThe races themselves have also proved dangerous to the horses – especially steeplechasing, which requires the horse to jump hurdles whilst galloping at full speed. This can result in injury or death to the horse, as well as the jockey. A study by animal welfare group Animal Aid revealed that approximately 375 racehorses die yearly, with 30% of these either during or as a result of injuries from a race. The report also highlighted the increasing frequency of race-related illnesses, including bleeding lungs (exercise-induced pulmonary hemorrhage) and gastric ulcers.\n\nAnimal rights groups are also primarily concerned that certain sports or training exercises may cause unnecessary pain or injuries to horse athletes. Some specific training or showing practices are so widely condemned that they have been made illegal at the national level and violations can incur criminal penalties. The most well-known is \"soring,\" a practice of applying a caustic ointment just above the hooves of a Tennessee Walking Horse to make it pick up its feet higher. However, in spite of a federal law in the United States prohibiting this practice and routine inspections of horse shows by inspectors from the United States Department of Agriculture, soring is still widespread and difficult to eliminate. Some events themselves are also considered so abusive that they are banned in many countries. Among these are horse-tripping, a sport where riders chase and rope a loose-running horse by its front legs, throwing it to the ground.\n\nSecondary effects of racing have also recently been uncovered. A 2006 investigation by The Observer in the UK found that each year 6,000–10,000 horses are slaughtered for consumption abroad, a significant proportion of which are horses bred for racing. A boom in the number of foals bred has meant that there is not adequate resources to care for unwanted horses. Demand has increased for this massive breeding programme to be scaled back. Despite over 1000 foals being produced annually by the Thoroughbred horse industry, 66% of those bred for such a purpose were never entered into a race, and despite a life expectancy of 30 years, many are killed before their fifth birthday.\n\nHorse riding events have been selected as a main motif in numerous collectors' coins. One of the recent samples is the €10 Greek Horse Riding commemorative coin, minted in 2003 to commemorate the 2004 Summer Olympics. On the composition of the obverse of this coin, the modern horseman is pictured as he jumps over an obstacle, while in the background the ancient horseman is inspired by a representation on a black-figure vase of the 5th century BC.\n\nFor the 2012 Olympics, the Royal Mint has produced a 50p coin showing a horse jumping a fence.\n\nA mounted rider from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police is featured on a 1973 Canadian quarter dollar coin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28915116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28915116", "title": "Estadio Alfonso Murube", "text": "Estadio Alfonso Murube\n\nEstadio Alfonso Murube is a football stadium in the autonomous city of Ceuta, Spain in Northern Africa. It is the home stadium of Asociación Deportiva Ceuta, who currently play in Segunda División B - Group 4, with a capacity of 6,500 seats. The stadium was inaugurated with a match between Ceuta and Algeciras Club de Fútbol, with the home team winning 4–2.\n\nOn 16 April 2002, the stadium hosted a friendly between the Spain national under-21 football team coached by Iñaki Sáez and the Yugoslavia under-21 team. With star players José Antonio Reyes, Fernando Torres, Pepe Reina, Asier Del Horno, Javier Portillo, Mikel Arteta, Xabi Alonso, and Raúl Bravo making appearances, Spain defeated Yugoslavia 2–1 with goals from Reyes and Torres.\n\n"}
{"id": "31531384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31531384", "title": "FC Shakhtyor Tashkömür", "text": "FC Shakhtyor Tashkömür\n\nFC Shakhtyor Tashkömür is a Kyrgyzstani football club based in Tashkömür, Kyrgyzstan that played in the top division in Kyrgyzstan, the Kyrgyzstan League.\n\n\nKyrgyzstan League:\n\nKyrgyzstan Cup:\n\n"}
{"id": "27070237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27070237", "title": "FLN football team", "text": "FLN football team\n\nThe FLN football team (in , in ), also known as \"Le onze de l'indépendance\" () was a team made up mainly of professional players in France, who then joined the Algerian independence movement of the National Liberation Front (FLN), and assisted in organizing football matches against national football teams.\n\nThe team was founded on . The role of this team was primarily psychological, in order to show the French metropolitans that even professional footballers were involved in the cause, even to the extent of renouncing their status. The French authorities easily obtained the non-recognition of the team by FIFA. Despite the prohibition on play, the FLN team engaged in a world tour of about eighty meetings, including Europe, Asia and Africa. These games were widely used by pro-independence propaganda. The team existed from 1958 to 1962, bequeathing its place in 1963 to its legitimate successor, the Algeria national football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "7272122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7272122", "title": "Fallen Footwear", "text": "Fallen Footwear\n\nFallen Footwear is an american skateboarding footwear and apparel brand founded by professional skateboarder Jamie Thomas in 2003, after leaving Circa. The company which was out of the market for almost two years (2016-2017) has now been acquired for a global re-launch by Town Connection, an investment group with its headquarters in Buenos Aires, Argentina. \n\nIn 2003, it was announced that Fallen Footwear would be manufactured and distributed by DC Shoes under license from Thomas.\nThe agreement was canceled in 2005 after DC was acquired by Quiksilver. It was an amicable separation, and DC President Ken Block said that Fallen was \"recognized as the top new emerging footwear brand in the skateboard industry.\" The shoes were sold and distributed through Thomas' Black Box Distribution.\n\nOn April 11, 2016, Jamie Thomas announced on Facebook, Instagram and its homepage that Fallen was disbanding operations.\n\nJanuary 1, 2018 was officially dated as the moment of Fallen's worldwide trademark acquirement by Town Connection while planning for a global re-launch sometime along this year. \n\nFallen was known for their shoes, flannel, hoodies, T-shirts, snapbacks, book bags, jeans/shorts, and skateboarding videos.\nThe more popular shoes are, \"The Clipper\", \"The Patriot\", \"The Rival\" ,\"Trooper\" and the \"Forte\".\nAt its peak, Fallen had 17 models in over 50 colors.\n\nSince Spring 2016, Fallen no longer created products. In a note on Fallen's website, Jamie Thomas states that \"The Fallen mission has always been to work with skateshops and support skateboarding with everything that we do. Unfortunately, this has become increasingly more difficult for skate shoe brands. Rather than waiver from this mission, we are choosing to bow out.\" \n\nIt is sometime along this year (2018) that new owners plan to bring to the market the most expected brand classics with some added new styles. Apparel will also be available at selected territories.\n\nIn 2008, Fallen released a skate video titled \"Ride the Sky\". The video features Billy Marks, Brian Hansen, Chris Cole, Gilbert Crockett, James Hardy, Jamie Thomas, Josh Harmony, Matt Bennett, Tommy Sandoval, and Tony Cervantes.\n\nFallen began a documentary, \"Roads Less Traveled\".\n\nAs of January 2015, the Fallen pro riders were Jamie Thomas, Tommy Sandoval, Brian \"Slash\" Hansen, Dane Burman, Jon Dickson and Tony Cervantes.\n\nIn 2011, longtime rider Chris Cole left Fallen to skate for DC Shoes\n\n"}
{"id": "395592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395592", "title": "FedExField", "text": "FedExField\n\nFedExField, originally Jack Kent Cooke Stadium, is an American football stadium located near the Capital Beltway in Prince George's County, Maryland, U.S., east of Washington, D.C., near the site of the old Capital Centre arena. The stadium is the home of the Washington Redskins of the National Football League (NFL). From 2004 until 2010, it had the largest seating capacity in the NFL at over 91,000. Currently, the capacity is 82,000. FedEx Field is in the Summerfield census-designated place and has a Landover postal address.\n\nFedExField was built as a replacement for the Redskins' prior venue, Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium in Washington, D.C. In 1994 Jack Kent Cooke sought to build a new stadium on the grounds adjacent to Laurel Park Racecourse along Whiskey Bottom and Brock Bridge roads. Lack of parking facilities and support prompted a second site selection.\n\nThe stadium opened in 1997 as Jack Kent Cooke Stadium, in honor of the recently deceased owner of the team, and the stadium site was known as Raljon from the first names of Cooke's sons – \"Ralph\" and \"John\". Notably, Cooke was able to register Raljon with the United States Postal Service as a legal alternate address for the 20785 zip code of Landover, Maryland, where the stadium is located, and went to some lengths to require media to use Raljon in datelines from the stadium. This ended when Daniel Snyder bought the Redskins from the Cooke estate, and the Redskins now give the stadium's address as Landover.\nA special exit, Exit 16 (Arena Drive), was built from Interstate 495, the Capital Beltway.\n\nAfter Snyder's purchase, the stadium's naming rights were sold to FedEx in November 1999 for an average of $7.6 million per year. The waiting list for Redskins season tickets was reportedly over 160,000 names long. However, according to \"The Washington Post\", Redskins ticket office employees improperly sold tickets directly to ticket brokers for several years before the practice was discovered in 2009.\n\nAlthough the Redskins have never sold out the entire stadium, the team has not had a game blacked out on local television since 1972 (when home game broadcasts were banned outright) because it does not count \"premium club level seating\" when calculating sellouts (their sellout streak dates to 1965, eight years before the new blackout rules were implemented).\n\nFrom 2004 to 2010 Redskins fans set the NFL regular-season home paid attendance records. In 2005 the team drew a record 716,998 fans overall. The December 30, 2007, 27–6 win against the Dallas Cowboys was the most watched game in Redskins history, with 90,910 fans in the stands to see Washington clinch a playoff spot.\n\nOn January 8, 2000, the Washington Redskins defeated the Detroit Lions 27–13 in the first NFL playoff game at FedExField. On December 29, 2002, the Redskins defeated the rival Dallas Cowboys, 20–14. This game was Darrell Green's final game. He played 20 seasons with the Redskins. The game also broke a 10-game losing streak to the Cowboys.\n\nThe stadium has five levels – the Lower Level, the Club Level, the Lower and Upper Suite Levels, and the Upper Level. The Lower, Club, and Upper Levels are all named after important figures of the Redskins, NFL, and Washington, D.C. area. The Lower Level is officially named \"George Preston Marshall Lower Level\", The Club is named \"Joe Gibbs Club Level, and The Upper Level is called \"Pete Rozelle Upper Level.\" The Suite Levels have 243 suite, lounge, and Owner's Club luxury boxes and 15,044 club seats. After Daniel Snyder purchased the Redskins, five rows of \"Dream Seats\" were installed in front of what had been the first row of the lower level, extending down almost to the level of the field. Seats in the previous first row of the lower level were not tall enough to see over the players on the sidelines.\n\nFedExField hosts the annual Prince George's Classic college football game, which is a game usually between two historically black universities. It has hosted several other college football games as well, including the 1998 game between the University of Notre Dame and the United States Naval Academy. the 2004 Black Coaches Association Classic between the University of Southern California Trojans and the Virginia Tech Hokies, and the 112th Army–Navy Game.\n\nFedExField is not well known as a soccer venue, as D.C. United of Major League Soccer elected to remain at RFK Stadium after the new stadium's opening. They began playing at Audi Field within the city in 2018.\n\nFedExField has been used for some international soccer matches — both for the United States and also for El Salvador. On March 28, 2015, Argentina defeated El Salvador at FedExField before a crowd of 53,978. On June 7, 2014, the stadium hosted a doubleheader. Spain, the 2010 World Cup winner, defeated El Salvador 2–0 in a warm-up match in front of a crowd of 53,267 before the 2014 World Cup; in the other game of the doubleheader, D.C. United played Columbus Crew to a scoreless draw in D.C. United's first time hosting an MLS regular season game at FedExField.\n\nIt hosted four preliminary matches and one quarterfinal doubleheader in the 1999 Women's World Cup. On July 1, 1999, the United States women's national soccer team defeated the German women's national team 3–2 in the FIFA Women's World Cup 1999 quarterfinals.\n\nFedExField has also hosted a number of club soccer exhibition matches. During the July 2005 World Series of Football, D.C. United hosted Chelsea F.C. there; the 31,473 spectators represented D.C. United's third-highest ever home attendance. On August 9, 2009, D.C. United hosted another international friendly against Real Madrid at FedExField. On July 30, 2011, Manchester United ended its 2011 summer tour with a 2–1 win over F.C. Barcelona at FedExField in front of 81,807 fans. This represented the largest soccer crowd in D.C.-area history. FedExField was used on July 29, 2014, in the International Champions Cup as Manchester United played Inter Milan; the game ended in a 0-0 draw and the shootout was won by Manchester United 5-3. On July 26, 2017, Manchester United played F.C. Barcelona again at the FedExField as part of International Champions Cup. This time the Catalan club secured a narrow 1-0 victory over Manchester United in front of 80,162 fans, with Neymar's last goal for F.C. Barcelona being the difference. On August 4, 2018, FedEx Field hosted a 2018 International Champions Cup match between Real Madrid and Juventus. Real Madrid won 3-1.\n\nFedExField is currently being considered as a 2026 FIFA World Cup venue. It is currently up against 16 other venues around the United States, including M&T Bank Stadium in nearby Baltimore; the final list of 10 stadiums will be decided in 2020 or 2021.\n\nMany fans feel FedExField does not compare favorably with RFK Stadium. \"Sports Illustrated\"'s rankings of \"NFL Fan Value Experience\" rated FedExField 28th out of 31 NFL stadiums. In January 2007, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Redskins owner Daniel Snyder was meeting with Washington, D.C., officials about building a new stadium in order to return the team to the District. There were also reportedly meetings with Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe.\n\nProblems were created when the design of the stadium was modified in an effort to maximize revenue. Over the years, \"party zones\" requiring paid membership (such as the Touchdown Club and Tailgate Club) have sprouted on the concourse outside the stadium. Entrances adjacent to the \"party zones\" are no longer accessible to fans who do not purchase a \"party zone\" membership. Installation of \"Dream Seats\" are another modification of the stadium that has increased revenue. The original architect calculated the lowest possible height at which the first row could be set in order to still see the field over the players standing on the sideline. In 2005, eight years after the stadium opened, 1,488 premium \"dream seats\" in three rows were added in front of what was the first row when the stadium was built. Because some of these seats are too low to see over the players on the sideline, occupants of these seats stand in order to see the game. In the 2011 off-season, nearly 10,000 seats were removed from the upper deck to reduce capacity to around 83,000, making FedExField the second-largest venue in the NFL during the 2011 season. A Redskins team official admitted that the seats were removed due to lack of demand. During the 2012 offseason, 4,000 additional seats were removed to make way for new suites and party decks and the stadium's capacity dropped to 79,000. The seats that were removed permit the team to continue to sell out and avoid the NFL television black-out rule. In December 2013, the Redskins set a record for the lowest announced attendance ever at FedExField with 56,247, most likely because of the team's poor record at the time and inclement weather. Attendance in the 2014 season averaged less than 78,000 per game, and never rose above 81,000. On June 1, 2015, \"The Washington Post\" reported that another 4,000 to 6,000 seats, primarily in the top eight rows of the upper decks, were tarped off using chain link fencing and tarps during the 2015 off-season. Team officials said the removals were made due to \"season ticket holder feedback\", and declined to say how exactly many seats had been removed.\n\nThe location of the stadium has made traveling to it through public transportation difficult and time-consuming. The stadium is about half a mile away from the Morgan Boulevard station, the nearest Metro station to the stadium. Furthermore, federal regulations prohibit publicly paid shuttle service from public transit agencies as long as a private service is available. Since this method is not cost effective, fans taking public transportation must walk to and from the stadium. That trip usually takes as long as 20 minutes on most days.\n\nMore recently, the field had fallen under considerable criticism for the poor quality of the grass surface. In 2013, the Redskins installed Latitude 36 sod and also installed a new drainage system along the sidelines.\n\n"}
{"id": "148663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148663", "title": "Hillsborough Stadium", "text": "Hillsborough Stadium\n\nHillsborough Stadium, often referred to as Hillsborough, is a 39,732-capacity association football stadium located in Owlerton, a north-western suburb of Sheffield, England. It has been the home ground of Sheffield Wednesday since its opening in 1899.\n\nAlthough the ground has received little investment since it was built in 1899 it is still regarded as \"a beautiful ground oozing character.\" It has two large two-tiered stands and two large single-tiered stands, all of them covered. All four stands are of a similar capacity with the South Stand being the largest and the West Stand, usually housing the away supporters, the smallest.\n\nOn 15 April 1989, the ground was the scene of the Hillsborough disaster in which 96 Liverpool fans were crushed to death at an FA Cup semi-final. The subsequent Taylor Report into the disaster led to a series of safety improvements at the ground and other stadiums around the country, including the requirement for clubs in the top two divisions in England to have all-seater stadiums, and the withdrawal of perimeter fencing around the pitch.\n\nPlans by the club to renovate the stadium and expand the capacity to 44,825 have been approved by Sheffield City Council with the aim of hosting World Cup matches. The playing surface has been recently upgraded to the Desso GrassMaster system, also including a complete replacement of the under-soil heating and drainage systems, while the scoreboard was replaced by a modern 'big screen' prior to the 2015-16 season. The stadium previously played host to World Cup and European Championship football in 1966 and 1996 respectively.\n\nThe stadium’s capacity has currently been temporarily reduced to 34,854 on safety grounds, although work is continuing to restore its maximum capacity.\n\nDuring the 1898–99 season Sheffield Wednesday were told that the land rented at Olive Grove would be needed for railway expansions. They were allowed to remain there for the rest of that season but had to find a new ground for the next season. Several locations were considered but fell through for various reasons. An alternative was offered by the Midland Railway Company but it did not meet the requirements of the club.\n\nFinally James Willis Dixon of Hillsborough House, owner of the Silversmiths James Dixon & Sons, offered a site at Owlerton, a sparsely populated area of land to the northwest of the city. The land was part of the Hillsborough House estate which was being sold off by the Dixons. It was successfully bought for £5,000 plus costs. Soil was dumped at both ends of the ground to level out the ground which was initially meadowland covered with dandelions. The 2,000 capacity stand at Olive Grove was then transported to the new site and was joined by a newly-built 3,000 capacity stand for the start of the next season. The first match to be played was on 2 September 1899 against Chesterfield. The match was kicked off by the Lord Mayor of Sheffield William Clegg, himself a former Wednesday player. It was a Chesterfield player, Herbert Munday, who scored the first goal at the new stadium but Wednesday came back to win the game 5–1. Despite the location of the ground several miles outside the city boundaries and a poor public transport service the new ground averaged 3,000 supporters for the first three months.\n\nThe ground was known as the \"Owlerton Stadium\" until 1914, when it was renamed \"Hillsborough\" to coincide with a series of ground improvements. The ground took its new name from the newly created parliamentary constituency. The ground proved to be lucky for Wednesday with the first 8 years proving to be their most successful so far. They included their first league wins in the 1902–03 and\n1903–04. This was followed by a second FA Cup in 1907.\n\nThe first FA Cup semi-final to be held at the stadium was a replay between West Bromwich Albion and Blackburn Rovers on 3 April 1912. A crowd of 20,050 saw an extra time goal give West Brom the win. This was followed by its first international on 10 April 1920. A match between England and Scotland was watched by 25,536. The game ended with England winning 5–4. The following two seasons saw Hillsborough host two more FA Cup semi-finals, both between Preston North End and Tottenham Hotspur. The crowds for these matches were 43,320 and 49,282 respectively. The highest ever attendance was 72,841 on 17 February 1934 for an FA Cup 5th-round game against Manchester City.\n\nAfter the end of the 1912–13 season a record profit was announced by the club. The money was invested in a replacement for the Olive Grove stand on the south side of the stadium. The banking on the Spion Kop was also increased in size. The new south stand was completed in time for the first round of the FA Cup on 1 October 1913 against Notts County. It cost £18,000 and included 5,600 seats plus terracing at the front. New offices, dressing rooms, refreshment rooms and a billiard room were also part of the new stand. The second round tie went to a replay on 4 February 1914, which was held in front of a record home crowd of 43,000. However the match was remembered for the collapse of the new retaining wall at the Penistone Road end. It caused 70 injuries and caused the match to be suspended while the casualties were taken to the infirmary.\n\nDuring the post war era Hillsborough rose to be one of the top stadia in the country. It hosted a total of 27 FA Cup semi-finals. In 1966, the stadium was selected as one of the venues for the Football World Cup, hosting first round matches involving West Germany, Argentina, Switzerland, and Spain, as well as a quarterfinal in which West Germany beat Uruguay 4–0.\n\nDemolition of the North Stand began in 1960 and work began on a new £150,000 stand. The new stand, designed by local firm Husband & Co, was in length. It was only the second stand in the country, after one at Scunthorpe United's Old Showground, to be built with a cantilever roof and the first to run the full length of the pitch. It was opened on 23 August 1961 by Stanley Rous, secretary of the Football Association. The 10,008 capacity all-seater stand almost doubled the seating capacity of Hillsborough from 9,000 to 16,000.\n\nThe ground held its first national cup final in 1977 when it played host to Everton and Aston Villa for a Football League Cup final replay. A crowd of 52,135 watched a 1–1 draw leading to another replay. At the end of the 1980s the ground held three successive FA Cup semis ending with the events that changed the nature of football grounds throughout the country.\n\nOn 15 April 1989, the ground was the scene of the worst tragedy in English sporting history when Liverpool faced Nottingham Forest in an FA Cup semi-final. During the match, 96 Liverpool fans were crushed to death. Official investigations into the disaster criticised Sheffield Wednesday for not acting upon previous incidents (especially the 1981 FA Cup semi-final) that had shown the potential for crushing at Hillsborough. The Leppings Lane end of the ground did not hold a valid safety certificate; it had not been updated since 1979.\n\nThe recommendations of the Taylor Report led to a series of improvements to safety at grounds across the United Kingdom. The terraces at Hillsborough were converted to all seated accommodation over the following four years, and the fences around the pitch were replaced with low safety-barricades to allow incursion onto the playing surface in case of emergency.\n\nOutside the ground, near the main entrance on Parkside Road, is a memorial to the 96 fans that lost their lives at Hillsborough in 1989, during the FA Cup Semi Final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest. The memorial was unveiled on the tenth anniversary of the tragedy, 15 April 1999. It reads: \"In memory of the 96 men, women, and children who tragically died and the countless people whose lives were changed forever. FA Cup semi-final Liverpool v Nottingham Forest. 15 April 1989. \"You’ll never walk alone.\"\" The memorial suffered minor damage in the Hillsborough Flood; however, it was easily and swiftly repaired.\n\nIn 1996, Hillsborough was host to several fixtures at the Euro 96 competition and in particular was host to the Danish squad. The Danish fans endeared themselves to the local population with their fanatical support and exemplary behaviour, and were particularly popular amongst local landlords—a number of Sheffield public houses had to order emergency supplies of beer and cigarettes.\n\nIn 1997 Hillsborough hosted the League Cup Final replay between Leicester City and Middlesbrough. It was won by Leicester by one goal to nil. Later the same year Middlesbrough returned to Hillsborough for an FA Cup semi-final replay in which they beat Chesterfield by three goals to nil.\n\nThe record attendance since the ground was made all-seated was on 2 February 2000 in a Premier League game against Manchester United and was watched by 39,640 fans. In recent years average attendances at Hillsborough have remained high relative to the lower leagues they have participated in:\n\n\nOn 25 June 2007, the River Don burst its banks during a period of severe weather in the area and the whole ground was flooded with several feet of water. Changing rooms, restaurants and kitchens, offices and superstore were all affected, with repairs costing millions of pounds. The clean-up effort took months, although Sheffield Wednesday fixtures were only slightly affected as the floods occurred in the close season. A memorial to the floods was unveiled on 25 June 2008 under the South Stand.\n\nThe north stand is the third largest stand at the ground, running along the north side of the pitch.\nThe original North Stand was built between 1899 and 1903. It was unique at the time, as it had facilities for both men and women, and a slight semicircle which gave a good view of the pitch at any angle (though the supporting pillars did cause some obstruction). The area at the front of the stand was a grass bank until the early 1900s when it was made into a terrace. The stand was joined to the original North West Terrace until the late 1950s when the club decided to build a brand new stand. The current North Stand was opened in 1961. It is only the second football stand in Britain to have a cantilever roof. Hence some fans know it as \"the cantilever\". It was the first stand in the country to run the entire length of the pitch. The first cantilever stand in English football at Scunthorpe United's Old Show Ground only covered the centre of the pitch. Following the formal opening of the stand in August 1961, a celebration match was played on 22 October 1961 when Wednesday met Santos of Brazil with their new star Pele in the team. Pele's goal helped Santos to a 4–2 win. When opened, the stand held 10,000 but the capacity has been reduced more recently to make room for spectators with disabilities and also to widen the exit aisles for safety. \n\nThe architectural critic Sir Nikolaus Pevsner called the cantilever stand \"interesting and unexpected\". This is the only mention of a football ground in his \"Buildings of England\" series of architectural guides. The opinion of Simon Inglis, an historian of sports and architecture, is:\n\nThere is not a misplaced line in this remarkable stand. From any angle (it) is quite breathtaking. It is like an architect’s model of the dream stand of the future, a space age stand.\n\nThe West stand houses the visiting supporters at Hillsborough on match days. It is a two tier structure with 2,494 seats in the lower half, and 4,164 seats in the upper enclosure. The stand is adjoined to the North West Corner which is an overspill zone for away fans (1,337 seats), though in the match against Wycombe Wanderers F.C. (5-5-12), the West Stand was used by home fans while Wanderers fans used the North West Corner.\nThe original stand built at the turn of the century was a covered terrace housing up to 3,000 fans. In the 1920s this was joined by the North West terrace before the Leppings Lane stand was replaced by a 12,000 capacity partially covered terrace. Before the 1966 World Cup the West Stand was demolished again and replaced by a two-tiered structure with 4,471 seats in the upper tier and retaining a terrace in front of the stand. \n\nAfter the Hillsborough disaster in 1989 the lower tier terrace was closed for two years and its fencing covered with blue tarp for the remainder of the 1988-89 season. The terrace remained out of use for 1989-90, and its fences were removed entirely prior to the 1990–91 season. The terrace was converted to 2,294 seats and re-opened in time for the 1991–92 season. The North West Corner was the last section of the stand to be made all seated, adding another 1,337 seats to the structure. The old wooden seats in the upper tier were replaced with bigger plastic ones in 1997. During the 2012–13 season the first row of seats were removed from the lower tier, after an incident involving Leeds United supporters when a minor pitch invasion took place. In the summer of 2013 small gates were installed at the front of the gangways in order to keep fans at bay.\n\nThe largest stand at Hillsborough situated on the banks of the river Don. It has a large lower tier with 8,275 seats (including the directors box) and an upper tier known as the 'Grand Stand' with 3,077 seats. The nearest four blocks of seating to the east on the Upper tier are used as the club's Family enclosure. The first South Stand was first built at Olive Grove, but moved with the club in the summer of 1899 to the new site at Owlerton where it was rebuilt brick by brick. The famous clock was also moved to Hillsborough. The modern stand, the oldest remaining stand at the ground, was built between 1913 and 1915 for a fee exceeding £17,000 to a design by Archibald Leitch. The stand had 5,600 seats as well as room for 11,000 standing fans. The clock was salvaged from the old stand and put on the new one. \n\nThe modern stand has seen a series of improvements, the first being a conversion to an all-seated stand in 1965 ahead of the 1966 FIFA World Cup and latest being a major £7 million re-development for the Euro 1996 international competition when an upper tier (Grandstand) of 3,077 extra seats, a new roof, 30 executive boxes, two conference suites, a bar, a restaurant and a range of office space were added. Again, the famous clock was saved and put on the new stand. The South Stand is the most recognisable of the four stands at Hillsborough and still bears the original now-famous and easily recognisable clock face and finial from the very first stand, which was brought from Olive Grove. The stand houses the main reception, media and hospitality boxes, Press box, Television gantry, as well as the ground's family enclosure, five modern refreshment kiosks and four bars. It also features concourse television sets relaying live coverage of the match as well as highlights at half-time. The team changing room and dug-outs are also situated here.\n\nNamed after a hill that was the scene of a famous battle in the Second Boer War, the Spion Kop is built into a natural hill at the east end of the ground and houses the most vocal of Wednesday supporters. It is usually simply referred to by fans as The Kop. In 1914 concrete terracing was installed on the bank, which was further extended in 1927. The final expansion of the hill came in 1954. The stand remained open to the elements until a roof was added in 1986 after fans raised money to contribute to the cost. When the roof was added, the stand was 'squared' off to make it symmetrical so that the roof was used fully. Due to this, the Kop was extended, so the capacity rose from 16,000 to 22,000. \n\nAfter the Hillsborough disaster in 1989, the stand's blue fences were at first retained. However, for the 1989-90 season, the gates allowing egress to the pitch were painted white and kept open throughout all matches, including the Steel City derby on 21 November 1989. The Kop was the last part of the Wednesday ground to be converted to all-seater accommodation, the change finally coming in 1993 to comply with new FA Premier League regulations following the Taylor Report. The capacity was hence halved, but the Kop remains one of the largest single tier stands in Britain. A large concourse area was added in 2004, partially funded by the Owls Trust.\n\nThe North West Corner, or North West terrace as it is sometimes still referred to as, despite now being all seated is the only major section of the stadium to remain uncovered (the other area is the Kop Corner). The original North West Terrace was built between 1919 and 1920 to adjoin both the North Stand and West Stand, but was demolished in early 1965 and replaced in mid 1966, in time for the 1966 World Cup. The terrace was not in use for two years, and seats were installed in 1991 along with the Leppings Lane terrace. The stand failed to gain a safety certificate for the 2007–08 season. In recent years it had only been used as overspill for away fans when both the upper and lower tiers of the West Stand have been filled, however in the 2011–12 season, with Wednesday needing to better or match the result of their neighbours to gain promotion on the final day of the season, the Corner was opened to visiting Wycombe Wanderers fans, with the West Stand used by home supporters. Whilst not being used for seating, the Corner has recently been used as extra advertising space, with advertising boards on the back wall, and more recently a large 'My Sheffield Jobs' seat covering appearing alongside their sponsorship of the North Stand. It is sponsored by Handley Brown. This corner is to be roofed, under the Hillsborough stadium Upgrade plans, yet no work has yet been done, due to owners of the nearby terraces complaining. This corner is commonly nicknamed the 'Crows Nest' by Wednesdayites.The corner is still unable to gain a safety certificate and remains unused by fans. Television company Sky use the corner for their temporary studios and technical area for televised games.\n\nThe Kop Corner is a small filling section which is adjoined to the Main Spion Kop. It is the second largest area of the ground to remain uncovered, after the North West Corner. This corner is usually just referred to as part of the Spion Kop, as is its capacity, and it is rare to see it referred to as a separate area. The Kop Corner was a lot larger before the installation of the Spion Kop roof in 1986, but a crane was needed to lift the roof, and the Kop Corner was destroyed so the crane could get in. Part of the corner was rebuilt, which is the present day area. Seats were installed in 1993 to correspond with the Taylor report, as was the rest of the Kop. This area was to be extended, and fully filled in under Sheffield Wednesday's ground renovation plans. The corner is well known amongst Wednesdayites as the location of Paul Gregory, aka 'Tango Man' on match days, along with his 'Wolverhampton Owls' flag and is often referred to as 'Tango's corner' by the Wednesdayites.\n\nThe stadium control area is in the southwest area of the ground, between the South and West stands. The most dominant feature is the video scoreboard. The current scoreboard was installed in May 2015 and replaced an older electronic dot-matrix style electronic scoreboard.\n\nThe old electronic scoreboard was one of the first electric scoreboards in an English football ground, installed in 1991 in time for the 1991–92 season. For the majority of the match, this showed the score and time, but as of the 2011–12 season, the board showed advertisements every few minutes. Before and after the match, information like team line-ups, fixtures, and other results were shown. The scoreboard had become somewhat of a cult icon of Hillsborough Stadium and Sheffield Wednesday as a whole, loved by the fans for its retro looks and \"T-fault\", where a series of lights making a T shape light up between animations due to a wiring fault, which had not been fixed on purpose by the club both as a joke and also because of its love by the fans. One of the most popular \"T-fault\" situations was when announcing the score of fierce rivals Sheffield United - the scoreboard displayed \"Shhhhhhhh...\", then, after a brief pause, \"T\", and only then did it announce the score.\n\nBelow the scoreboard is the stadium control building, where all the technical aspects of the stadium are controlled (e.g. lighting, announcements, CCTV). At the base of the area is a very small section of disused terrace, which has still not been converted to seating. It is only used as a congregation area for the police and stewards, and has not held fans since the 1989 Hillsborough disaster.\n\nThe Owls Megastore is the official Sheffield Wednesday club shop, underneath the North Stand. It sells all the merchandise, and also the tickets for matchdays. It and the neighbouring ticket office were severely damaged in the Hillsborough Flood. The wall separating the ticket office and club shop was subsequently demolished, and a much larger Owls Megastore opened a few months later, with the ticket office now in one of the corners of the shop. Before the re-development, the Owls Megastore was two storey, but it has now been changed to one.\n\nA bridge was built across the River Don in 1996, to provide access to the refurbished South Stand, ahead of Euro 96. It connects Parkside Road and the surrounding area to the main entrance to Hillsborough Stadium.\n\nSeveral restaurants, such as Dooley's and the Sheridan Suite, are under the south stand. Other areas include the 1867 Lounge, various bars, and a wide range of office space. Board rooms, meeting halls and business suites are also here.\n\nThe stadium is located in the north west of the city roughly three miles from the city centre. The area is mainly residential with a number of shops and a shopping centre located at nearby Hillsborough Corner. Views of the area can be enjoyed from hills located to the west.\n\nThe stadium is sandwiched between Hillsborough Park to the south and terrace housing to the north. The River Don also runs alongside the stadium to the south. The Spion Kop backs straight onto Penistone Road, a major dual carriageway leading to the city centre, while there is some space between the West Stand and Leppings Lane.\n\nSheffield Wednesday did not secure promotion to the Premier League in the 2015/16 season, and so some of the long-term upgrade plans have been delayed. However in July 2017 some upgrade and improvement works commenced with completion before the first league home game in August 2017:\nDuring the 2015/6 season the club installed a completely new EPOS system on the concourses\n\nSheffield Wednesday announced in the summer of 2009 plans for a £22 million upgrade of the stadium and an increase in capacity to 44,825 from the current 39,732 with no viewing restrictions. These plans were to be completed by 2013 and would bring the stadium up to FIFA standards for hosting World Cup matches.\n\nFor reference, the details of the plans are as follows:\n\n\n\nThe highest attendance recorded at Hillsborough was in the FA Cup fifth round on 17 February 1934. A total of 72,841 turned up to see a 2–2 draw with Manchester City. The highest attendance recorded since work to convert the stadium to an all-seater venue was completed in 1993 was for a Premier League match against Manchester United on 2 February 2000. The game was watched by 39,640 fans.\nThe highest seasonal average attendance at Hillsborough was 42,520 in the 1952–53 season in Division 1. The highest average attendance in the second tier of English football was 41,682 in the 1951–52 season, which saw the club gain promotion from Division 2 and Derek Dooley score a record 46 league goals. The highest average attendance in the third tier of English football was achieved in the 2004–05 season when an average of 23,107 fans watched the League One games at Hillsborough.\n\nThe lowest average attendance at Hillsborough came in the first season after its opening (1899–00) when each game was attended by an average crowd of just 6,800 fans, mainly because the new stadium, then called \"Owlerton Stadium\", was a fraction of the size it is today.\n\nThe largest gate receipts taken from a match at Hillsborough was for the Euro 96 game between Turkey and Denmark on 19 June 1996. A crowd of 28,671 watched the match, paying a total of £1,012,150.\n\nHillsborough still holds the record for the highest attendance for a third tier football match in Britain. 49,309 spectators turned up on 26 December 1979, one of the most memorable days in SWFC history, when the Owls beat Sheffield United 4–0 in a top of the table clash, now known as the Boxing Day Massacre.\n\nThe largest receipts for a club game at Hillsborough were for the FA Cup semi-final replay between Chesterfield and Middlesbrough on 22 April 1997 and totalled £680,965. The game was watched by 30,339 fans.\n\nThe highest receipts for a game at Hillsborough involving Sheffield Wednesday was for the Premier League match against Manchester United on 7 March 1998, which was watched by 39,427 fans and earned the club £386,426.\n\nHillsborough was used as a venue for the 1966 FIFA World Cup and 1996 UEFA European championships. It was also used for some England matches before Wembley Stadium was built.\n\nIt hosted two England under-21 internationals. The first was a 1984 UEFA European Under-21 Championship Qualifying Group 3 match against France’s under-21s on 28 February 1984. The hosts thrashed the visitors 6 - 1 with Mark Hateley scoring four goals as well as single goals from Dave Watson and Mel Sterland. The other was a 2006 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification Group 6 match against Poland’s under-21s on 11 October 2005. The hosts thrashed the visitors 4 - 1 with Steven Taylor scoring twice as well as single goals from Carlton Cole and Jerome Thomas while Marcin Kikut scored for the visitors with 23,110 in attendance.\n\nHillsborough Stadium was selected by The FA as a proposed venue for matches as part of the English 2018 and 2022 FIFA World Cup bid on 16 December 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12583475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12583475", "title": "Iran Hockey Federation", "text": "Iran Hockey Federation\n\nThe Iran Hockey Federation (IHF) is the national governing body for field hockey in Iran. It is affiliated to the International Hockey Federation (FIH). The head-quarters of the federation are in Tehran.\n\nThe current IHF interim president is Hassan Abazari and the Secretary is Hamid Reza Bokharaei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33276014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33276014", "title": "Jack Jumping", "text": "Jack Jumping\n\nJack Jumping, also known as Skibock in Europe, is an action sport that involves descending a slope that is covered with snow on a Jackjumper. The Jackjumper is a skiing device with a bench seat attached to a ski. The seat may be solidly mounted with a post, or sprung mounted with a shock-absorbing device. The origins of Jack Jumping, as well as its name, remain a mystery. The earliest Jackjumpers date to the mid- to late 1800s. Early patents for Jackjumpers were granted in the 1920s and the 1930s. Jackjumpers in the US, and Skibocks in Europe, are used today for both sport and recreation. There are numerous competitive events scheduled each year on both continents.\n\nThe earliest Jackjumpers were made in New England in the mid- to late 1800s. While many early Jackjumpers were homemade, Jackjumpers that were manufactured in the late 1800s can be found in museums and private collections.\nThe oldest patent issued for a Jackjumper goes back to 1914. The first European patent was registered in 1929 in the Federal Institute of Intellectual Property (Switzerland).\nThere are many legends as to the origins of Jack Jumping. Some claim the earliest ones were made from barrel staves for skis and handcrafted wooden posts and seats. These Jackjumpers are said to be used by loggers. Others say is originated as a toy for children to enjoy in the winter. Whatever the case of origin, both adults and children alike have enjoyed Jackjumpers for over a century.\n\nMost Jackjumper competitions, such as the Jack Jump World Championships held at Mount Snow, Vermont each year are downhill slalom racing. Slalom Jackjumping is similar to slalom skiing. Participants complete on downhill race course constructed by laying out a series of gates. In slalom competitions, two Jackjumpers race downhill through sets of gates to the finish line.\n\nIn Europe The first Skibock World Championship took place on TschentenAlp on 19 March 2006.\n\nEaglebrook School in Deerfield, MA has been holding Jackjumping races at their Winter Carnival for over eighty years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6555453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6555453", "title": "John Frame (cricketer)", "text": "John Frame (cricketer)\n\nJohn Frame (1733 at Warlingham, Surrey – 11 October 1796 probably at Dartford, Kent) was an English cricketer and arguably the first great fast bowler in the game's history. His first-class career spanned the 1749 to 1774 English cricket seasons.\n\nHe was described by John Nyren as one of the Hambledon Club’s greatest opponents and as \"the other principal with Lumpy\" (i.e., Edward \"Lumpy\" Stevens). Nyren says he remembers little of Frame, except that he was an unusually stout man for a cricketer.\n\nFrame was only 16 when he first played in an important match on Friday 2 & Saturday 3 June 1749 for Surrey v All-England at Dartford Brent. Surrey won by 2 wickets. In 1750, he played for Surrey in three matches against Kent and his brother was in the same team each time.\n\nFrame moved to Dartford while still a young man and was chiefly associated with Dartford Cricket Club and the Kent county team.\n\nHis last known top-class appearance was for All-England v Hampshire at Sevenoaks Vine on Friday 8 & Saturday 9 July 1774. Hampshire, who had Lumpy as a given man, won by 169 runs.\n\n"}
{"id": "40073312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40073312", "title": "LSU Basketball Practice Facility", "text": "LSU Basketball Practice Facility\n\nThe LSU Tigers basketball and Lady Tigers Basketball Practice Facility is an indoor arena connected to the Pete Maravich Assembly Center through the Northwest portal. The facility features separate, full-size duplicate gymnasiums for the men's and women's basketball teams. Each gym spans and includes a regulation NCAA court in length with two regulation high school courts in the opposition direction. The courts are exact replicas of the Maravich Center game court and have two portable goals and four retractable goals. Each gymnasium is equipped with a scoreboard, video filming balcony, and scorer's table with video and data connection that enable instant replay. The facility also houses team locker rooms, a team lounge, training rooms, coach's offices and locker rooms, a media room, laundry facility and storage areas.\n\nThe building also includes a two-story lobby and staircase that ascends to the second level where a club room holds 500 people for pre-game and post-game events. The club room is connected to the Pete Maravich Assembly Center concourse. The lobby includes team displays and graphics, trophy cases and memorabilia of LSU Basketball. A 900-pound bronze statue of LSU legend Shaquille O'Neal is in front of the facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "5245439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5245439", "title": "Liebenauer Stadium", "text": "Liebenauer Stadium\n\nThe Liebenauer Stadium, sponsored as the Merkur-Arena (formerly known as the Arnold Schwarzenegger Stadium and UPC-Arena) is in Graz, Styria, Austria. The ground is the home of the football clubs SK Sturm Graz and Grazer AK.\n\nOriginally, the stadium was named after bodybuilder, actor and former governor of the U.S. state of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, who was born near Graz. It was built from 2000 to early 2001 and is owned by \"Stadion Liebenau Betriebs GmbH\". It opened with the game Grazer AK vs. SK Sturm Graz on 9 July 1997 (0:4).\n\nIn December 2005, when Schwarzenegger did not stop the execution of Stanley Tookie Williams, an intense discussion in his hometown began about what to do with the stadium that bore his name. After some days, Schwarzenegger revoked the city of Graz's right to the use of his name, ending the debate. On the night of 26 December 2005 the name was removed from the stadium. The remaining part Stadion Graz-Liebenau was removed on 17 February 2006 and on 18 February 2006 the stadium was renamed to UPC-Arena. In March 2016 the Austrian insurance company Merkur Versicherung secured the rights to bear a name and the stadium was renamed to Merkur-Arena.\n\nThe Merkur-Arena has an official capacity of 15,400 in 27 sectors. The away fans are normally in sector 8, which has a capacity of about 750. When more away fans are expected, sector 9 with about 750 seats is also given to the away team and sometimes even also sector 10. At Champions League games of the SK Sturm Graz, some additional platforms were built so that the stadium had a capacity of 16,000 spectators. Furthermore, the stadium has a wheelchair area.\nThe first game in the \"new\" UPC-Arena was the 125th derby between SK Sturm Graz and Grazer AK (4:0).\nThe field equipped with a lawn heating has a size of 105 x 68 metres.\n\nThe stadium hosted a World Cup qualifier between Austria and Faroe Islands on 5 September 2009 which ended in 3–1 victory for the home team. It also hosted an international friendly between England and Japan on 30 May 2010. England had been training in Irdning, a small village in the Austrian Alps, in preparation for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. The match ended 2–1 to England, courtesy of two own goals by Japan.\n\nThe average season attendances from league matches held at the Merkur-Arena for Grazer AK and SK Sturm Graz.\n\"*\" Dissolved after 6 matches.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2016 the stadium was sponsored by UPC Austria, and was known as the UPC-Arena\n\nMerkur Versicherung won the sponsorship rights from 2016. The contract is set to last for 10 years until 2026.\n\n"}
{"id": "56804441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56804441", "title": "Lirim Kastrati (footballer, born January 1999)", "text": "Lirim Kastrati (footballer, born January 1999)\n\nLirim Kastrati (born 16 January 1999) is a Kosovar professional footballer who plays as a forward for Croatian club Lokomotiva and the Kosovo national team.\n\nOn 17 February 2018, Kastrati made his debut as professional footballer in a 1–0 away defeat against Istra 1961 after being named in the starting line-up. On 10 March 2018, he scored his first two goals in a 4–1 away win against Dinamo Zagreb. On 16 September 2018, Kastrati scored the first hat-trick of his career in a 2–5 away win over Slaven Belupo. \n\nOn 1 October 2017, Kastrati was named as part of the Kosovo U19 squad for 2018 UEFA European Under-19 Championship qualifications. On 3 October 2017, he made his debut with Kosovo U19 in a match against Austria U19 after being named in the starting line-up.\n\nOn 6 November 2017, Kastrati received a call-up from Kosovo U21 for 2019 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification matches against Israel U21 and Azerbaijan U21. On 14 November 2017, he made his debut with Kosovo U21 in a match against Azerbaijan U21 after coming on as a substitute at 46th minute in place of Mirlind Daku.\n\nOn 5 October 2018, Kastrati received a call-up from Kosovo for the 2018–19 UEFA Nations League matches against Malta and Faroe Islands. On 11 October 2018, he made his debut with Kosovo in a match against Malta after coming on as a substitute at 83rd minute in place of Vedat Muriqi.\n\n"}
{"id": "47592927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47592927", "title": "Lithuania men's students basketball team", "text": "Lithuania men's students basketball team\n\nThe Lithuania men's students basketball team (Lithuanian: \"Lietuvos studentų vyrų krepšinio rinktinė\") represents Lithuania at various students competitions. Most of the team members plays at the Lietuvos studentų krepšinio lyga, though some of them are members of the professional basketball clubs, such as Žalgiris Kaunas and Lietuvos rytas Vilnius. The team won gold medals at the 2007 Summer Universiade and bronze medals at the 2011 Summer Universiade.\n"}
{"id": "4269049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4269049", "title": "Love Street (stadium)", "text": "Love Street (stadium)\n\nSt Mirren Park, more commonly known as Love Street, was a football stadium located on Love Street in Paisley, Scotland. At one time the stadium was capable of accommodating almost 50,000 spectators, however in its final years it had an all-seated capacity of 10,800. Until its closure in 2009, it was the home ground of St Mirren F.C..\n\nThe football grounds on Love Street were registered as Fullerton Park for St Mirren's first season there as they were originally rented from a Mr Fullerton. The ground's record attendance was 47,438 for a match against Celtic in 1949. St Mirren completed construction of their new St Mirren Park in December 2008. St Mirren played their last game at Love Street, against Motherwell, on 3 January 2009.\n\nWhen St Mirren began to play on Love Street in the mid-1890s football clubs were still very much in their infancy and moved from ground to ground renting from local landowners. The best deal available was commonly a ten-year lease and by the time St Mirren arrived at Love Street, the club was only 17 years old and playing on its fifth rented ground. They had previously played on four sites in the north of Paisley; Shortroods Estate (1877 to 1878), Abingdon Park (1878 to 1879), Thistle Park, Greenhill Road (1879 to 1882), and Westmarch Estate, Greenhill Road (1882 to 1894). Paisley clubs Abercorn, who played at Underwood Park, and St Mirren joined the Scottish Football League when it started in 1890–91.\n\nFollowing twelve years playing at Westmarch, St Mirren moved in 1894 in response to a 100% rent increase by the landlord who appeared to have lost interest in hosting football on his land. The club found a former brickworks at the foot of Love Street which could be rented for an initial ten years on reasonable terms. The land at Westmarch had been laid out with two pitches, a grandstand and pavilion; the Love Street site was substantially smaller, barely wide enough to lay a football pitch with some spare ground behind the goals; it was poorly drained and without grass. However, it would give St Mirren the significant advantage of being nearer to Paisley town centre than any of the other football clubs in the town. Furthermore, the site was already well known to the townsfolk as an entertainment venue, as it was where travelling circuses set up their Big Top.\n\nThe original Love Street site housed the re-built club pavilion behind the Love Street end goal, and a new grandstand, squeezed along the full length of the pitch with five rows of seats and a total capacity of 1,000. St Mirren played their first home game at Love Street, a 3–0 defeat to Celtic, on 8 September 1894.\n\nShortly after the original ten-year lease ran out, the club was almost forced to move away from Love Street, much as it had already been from Westmarch. With the club approaching Mr Fullerton with an offer to buy the site, the landowner tried to take advantage of the situation by setting a lofty price, together with an ultimatum to either buy or face a hefty increase in rent. The club hastily looked for alternatives, and began negotiations with the owners of the Shortroods Estate where St Mirren had played for its first season. However, with the prospect of losing out altogether, Mr Fullerton backed down, reducing his asking price to £3,900 and thus Saints purchased and stayed at Love Street.\n\nOver the course of the next fifteen years the club’s aim was to expand the site by buying the land that bordered on two sides – towards the town and round onto Greenock Road. However, it was not until 1920 that the land was finally secured and St Mirren owned pretty much the site that it occupied through to its closure.\n\nWith a large site now owned, and the football pitch about to be moved 40 yards towards the town, the club had plans in 1921 for a 60,000 capacity ground with a large oval sweep of earth embankments on three sides, with the fourth side taken up by a 4,500 seater grandstand set up above a 3,000 capacity terraced enclosure, with a 440-yard running track round the pitch. However, before building began, the Great Depression in the United Kingdom tightened its grip and costs more than doubled in the space of six months.\n\nThe part of the project to suffer most was the grandstand as the final price of the stadium rose from an estimate of £17,500, for the full plans, to around £30,000 for the scaled-down version that was completed six months later. The grandstand was reduced in size by almost two-thirds with the steel framework clad in corrugated sheeting to further reduce costs. The St Mirren Directors' intention was to eventually complete the original plans for a full-length grandstand on Love Street in stages as funds permitted, however this did not materialise.\n\nAfter 1921 there were no major changes to the grounds until the late 1950s when the North Bank was covered and floodlights installed. Twenty years later new floodlight pylons were installed and plans appeared for redeveloping St Mirren Park as an all-seater stadium. There was also talk of incorporating airport car-parking, or a hotel, or commercial office space.\n\nLove Street became a designated ground under the Safety of Sports Grounds Act in 1977, which prompted the local government to demand alterations. In the summer of 1979, the Love Street End terracing was knocked down and rebuilt ten yards from the goal. There was more talk of covering the new family enclosure at Cairter’s Corner and installing a stadium clock and even one suggestion to re-locate in Renfrew District Council’s proposed £200 million national stadium planned for a site across the railway line from Greenhill Road.\n\nWith the Scottish Football Association (SFA) preferring to redevelop Hampden Park, St Mirren remained at Love Street and seats were installed on the North Bank terrace in 1991. Four years later, after the owner of a large building company had joined the club's board of directors, the 3,015 seat Caledonia Stand was built in a deal that saw some of the club’s land sold for development as housing. There were also plans to have a similar stand built at the Love Street End but the bottom fell out of the construction industry and there was the near closure of St Mirren in 1998.\n\nSt Mirren won the 1999–2000 Scottish First Division and were promoted to the Scottish Premier League (SPL) as First Division champions. In order to meet SPL regulations in their first season in the top flight, the club had to carry out further work on the stadium, installing seating on the Love Street terrace.\nAt the time of the stadium closing, the 1921 main stand remained situated on the southern (town) side of the stadium. The largest stand was the West Stand (Caledonia Street), which housed away fans. The North Bank stand was sponsored by former shirt-sponsors LDV and was where the most vocal home fans usually sat. The most recently built stand, the East Stand, or Reid Kerr College Stand, was on the Love Street side of the stadium and became used as the home support's Family Stand .\n\nIn the 1950s the club had a unique problem when it came to installing floodlights at Love Street. The ground was on the direct approach path for aircraft to the local airport which, at that time, was a mere three miles east, in Renfrew. This meant that as well involving Paisley Town Council, Saints’ plans also had to satisfy three Government departments - the Ministry of Civil Aviation, the Air Ministry and The Admiralty.\n\nInitially there were roof-line lights set all the way along the newly built North Bank cover and the grandstand opposite. But, because the stand was considerably shorter than full-length there also had to be two pylons built to light the corners of the pitch on the stand side. And these could not be very tall because of the flight-path. They ended up therefore as two, strangely squat-looking, 40-foot pylons that weren’t even as tall as the stand roof and had three rows of lights .\n\nNonetheless, there came complaints from pilots that the pylon to the right of the stand was confusing their approach and a black-out order was imposed whilst aviation charts had this new landmark added. It then took a further eight months for the Air Ministry to run tests and finally pass the system fit for use. The first match under the floodlights was on 13 February 1959 against Peebles Rovers in the Scottish Cup, a match St Mirren won 10–0.\n\nIn 1966 the airport was moved to less than a mile north of St Mirren Park and its current site in Abbotsinch, Paisley; later becoming known as Glasgow International Airport. Almost immediately the club was being asked by the media when they would install \"proper\" floodlights, as the system was not highly regarded. Club finances at the time were extremely tight, with only two full-time employees, and so there was no possibility that money could be spent on improving the floodlights.\n\nIt took until 1978, with a new set of Directors at the helm and a Development Fund put in motion that 90-foot high pylons were erected.\n\nOne of the criteria for admittance to the SPL, following promotion in the 2005–06 season, was that the pitch was equipped with under-soil heating. As the club was already planning to move to a new site, it was faced with installing an expensive heating system that might only be used for one season, a financial burden they would struggle to meet. The Directors considered requesting a period of grace from the SPL, but in the end decided to go ahead with installing the system.\n\nOn 16 August 2005 the Scottish Executive and Renfrewshire Council granted permission for the club to sell Love Street for supermarket development and allow the club to build a new stadium in Greenhill Road, Ferguslie Park, Paisley. The sale of their old ground financed the new stadium and cleared the financial debts of the club. In April 2007 it was announced that a deal had been struck with Tesco. Under this deal Tesco would pay for the construction of the new St Mirren Park, an 8,000 seat stadium. Work on the new ground started on 9 January 2008.\n\nThe last match to be played at Love Street, a goalless draw between St Mirren and Motherwell, took place before a sell-out crowd on 3 January 2009. The club officially moved into the new St Mirren Park on Wednesday 21 January 2009. The local authorities subsequently refused planning permission for a supermarket on the Love Street site. As of February 2012, it is planned to be used for housing.\n\nSt Mirren played in five Scottish Cup semi-finals at home on the original Love Street Grounds. Crowds regularly reached 10,000 and peaked at 16,000 for the 1906 semi-final clash with Third Lanark. Following the ground's redevelopment, a visit of Rangers in the 1923–24 Scottish Cup took the ground attendance record above 40,000 for the first time and twelve months later Celtic came to Love Street and the attendance record rose to 47,428.\n\nDuring the post-World War II boom in attendances, the record was broken again on 20 August 1949 with another visit by Celtic, this time in a Scottish League Cup match in front of a crowd of 47,438.\n\nOnce the Love Street End had been squared off, the capacity fell and the largest crowd was another visit of Celtic in the 1979–80 Scottish Cup fourth round replay when 27,166 squeezed inside, leaving huge queues on Love Street locked out.\n\nAt the time of closure, the all-seated capacity was 10,800. The highest attendance under that capacity was 10,261 for an SPL game against Dunfermline Athletic.\n\nSt Mirren hosted a women's football match at Love Street in 1895. The ground has been a regular venue for schoolboy internationals, Scottish Junior Cup semi-finals, and Scotland Under-21 internationals. In 1904 the Scottish Football League played the Irish Football League in front of 10,000 fans.\n\nIn 1923, 25,000 fans watched Scotland played Wales in the British Home Championship. Local rivals Morton played their home games at Love Street for part of 1949. The deal was that St Mirren got to keep the stand and enclosure takings from the games. Morton also played a Scottish Cup tie against Rangers at Love Street in 2000. In 1970, it was used as a venue for one match in the UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship hosted by Scotland.\n\n\n\nSt Mirren was a Football and Athletic Club until 1905 and annual sports such as running and cycling events would have been a feature of the summer months. It is known that there was a Scottish Inter-Region rugby union match played there in 1897 and at least one dog handicap race run around the track in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nSt Mirren tried to introduce greyhound racing on a regular basis in the early 1930s, and spent money on upgrading the track. The first meeting was held on 14 October 1932 and the track was independent (unlicensed). However, only three weeks after the first race the SFA declared a ban on greyhound racing at football grounds and the club lost money on the venture. When the ban was lifted, and St Mirren was approached to resume racing, the club declined.\n\nIn 1938, a World Title Flyweight boxing match was scheduled to take place at the stadium involving Scotland’s first-ever world champion boxer Benny Lynch. Again money was spent with an anticipated pay-back from a 30,000 crowd. The event turned sour when Lynch was stripped of his title in the days before the fight for failing by a large margin to make the weight. It went ahead as a non-title bout but Lynch’s fans felt badly let down and the turnout was poor.\n\nPaisley Lions speedway team raced in the British National Speedway League at Love Street for two seasons in 1975 and 1976. The first meeting was held on 5 April 1975 in front of a crowd of over 6,000. However, despite the meetings being well attended the club folded after two seasons. Their last meeting was held on 25 September 1976 when the Lions beat Boston Barracudas 52-25.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1198200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1198200", "title": "Mile One Centre", "text": "Mile One Centre\n\nMile One Centre is an indoor arena and entertainment venue located in downtown St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada. The arena opened in May 2001, as Mile One Stadium, replacing Memorial Stadium. The centre's name comes from it being located at the beginning of the Trans-Canada Highway. At full capacity the arena can seat 7,000 people. \n\nThe arena is the home of the St. John's Edge of the National Basketball League of Canada and the Newfoundland Growlers of the ECHL. \n\nThough the centre's name is often assumed to be a generic name based solely on the building's location, Mile One Centre is in fact among the many North American sports venues that have raised funds by selling their naming rights. In the case of Mile One, brewing company Molson initially acquired the naming rights for 10 years (2001-2011), as well as other privileges such as being the venue's exclusive beer supplier, for $1.5 million. Molson then resold the naming rights to Danny Williams, then-owner of Cable Atlantic (and later premier of Newfoundland and Labrador), for $600,000. Before the centre opened, however, Williams sold Cable Atlantic to Rogers Communications in order to pursue politics, but retained the naming rights personally. Ultimately Williams chose to name the centre based on the venue's geography.\n\n\"Mile One\" is a trademark owned by the Williams family's charitable foundation, not the city, meaning that the centre can only use the \"Mile One\" name so long as it has the family's permission to do so. This implies that if and when Williams's rights expire and are not renewed, the centre might be forced to find a new name, regardless of whether or not a new sponsor is found.\n\nThe building was originally home to the St. John's Maple Leafs of the American Hockey League. The Leafs played out of the centre from 2001–2005 before relocating to Toronto, Ontario to become the Toronto Marlies. Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment (MLSE) stated that the relocation was necessary to better monitor prospects for the co-owned Toronto Maple Leafs.\n\nThe Dobbin family were granted an expansion Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) franchise in 2004 to be later named the St. John's Fog Devils. The Fog Devils began playing at Mile One Centre in 2005. However, the Fog Devils would relocate to Montreal, Quebec, after three seasons in St. John's to become the Montreal Junior Hockey Club. Many reasons were attributed to the Fog Devils' demise including lack of fan support, a poor lease agreement and high travel costs. The Fog Devils' departure left Mile One Centre without a major tenant for the first time since the building opened.\n\nProfessional hockey returned to St. John's in 2011 when Winnipeg-based True North Sports and Entertainment announced a lease agreement with former Newfoundland and Labrador premier Danny Williams that saw their AHL franchise (formerly known as the Manitoba Moose) relocated to the Mile One Centre. The St. John's IceCaps played their inaugural season in 2011–12 and as the minor league affiliate of True North's National Hockey League team, the Winnipeg Jets. In honour of this development, the Kraft Hockeyville pre-season game between the Jets and the Ottawa Senators (which was originally to be held in Conception Bay when announced as it was prior to the relocation of the Atlanta Thrashers to become the Jets, causing the Moose to become the IceCaps) was moved to the Mile One Centre. In March 2015, it was announced that the Jets would move their AHL team from St. John's back to Winnipeg as the Moose in 2015–16. The IceCaps' organization was then able to get the Montreal Canadiens' AHL team, the Hamilton Bulldogs, to relocate to St. John's for the start of the 2015–16 season, retaining the IceCaps name. However, this was only a temporary move while the Canadiens built a rink for their AHL team in Laval, Quebec. In 2017, the Canadiens' owned franchise left and became the Laval Rocket.\n\nIn 2018, after a year without a hockey tenant at Mile One, St. John's was granted an ECHL expansion team with the Newfoundland Growlers.\n\nAfter long negotiations, the arena became the home to the St. John's Edge of the National Basketball League of Canada beginning with the 2017–18 season bringing professional basketball to St. John's.\n\nThe arena hosts the annual Herder Memorial Trophy tournament, the largest hockey tournament in the province. It hosted the 2002 AHL All-Star Game and the 2014 AHL All-Star Game in which the AHL All-Stars faced Färjestad BK of the Swedish Hockey League. \n\nOn September 22, 2014, Mile One Centre held two split squad preseason games for the Ottawa Senators vs. the New York Islanders. New York won both games 3–2, the latter game on a shootout. The Senators faced the Carolina Hurricanes at Mile One for another preseason game on September 27, 2015.\n\nA National Basketball Association exhibition game between the Toronto Raptors and the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2003, was cancelled on game night due to an excess of condensation built up on the playing surface due to the inside temperature.\n\nOther hosted sporting events include:\n\nThe arena hosted the 2017 Tim Hortons Brier, the Canadian men's curling championship.\n\nThe Juno Awards were presented at Mile One Centre on April 14, 2002. This marked the first time the awards show officially went on the road outside the provinces of Ontario or British Columbia. In January 2009, it was announced that the Junos were returning to Mile One Centre in April 2010. This made St. John's the first city to host the awards show for a second time since they started traveling the country in 2002. \n\nMile One Centre was the main venue for the third annual Avalon Expo sci-fi/comics/pop-culture convention on August 25–27, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "4576588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4576588", "title": "National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame", "text": "National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame\n\nThe National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame, located in Kansas City, Missouri, is a hall of fame and museum dedicated to men's college basketball. The museum is an integral portion of the College Basketball Experience created by the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC), located at the Sprint Center. The hall is meant as a complement to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, with a focus strictly on those who have contributed greatly to college basketball.\n\nOn November 17, 2006 the NABC honored around 180 players, coaches and other notable contributors to college basketball by inducting them into the founding class of the Hall of Fame. Oscar Robertson, Bill Russell, Dean Smith, John Wooden, and the family of James Naismith, were selected to represent the inaugural class.\n\nThe Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield, Massachusetts has indicated it will help with the exhibits. The other interactive portions of the College Basketball Experience are called 'The Entry Experience,' 'The Fan Experience,' and 'The Game.' The NABC recently renamed the Guardians Classic college tournament the CBE Classic to help promote it.\n\nEach year several founding class members are honored at the induction ceremony:\n\n"}
{"id": "4086460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4086460", "title": "Old Deer Park", "text": "Old Deer Park\n\nOld Deer Park is an area of open space within Richmond, in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, England. It covers of which is not in public ownership, largely sports grounds for the sports of rugby and golf.\n\nThe park is bounded generally by the Thames to the west, Kew Gardens to the north, and across a trunk road urban areas of Richmond town to the east and south. Owned by the Crown Estate, the park forms part of a larger retained historic and biodiverse landscape incorporating part of Richmond, Kew and Isleworth. The lowest, western parts of the park constitute flood storage areas, which provide emergency flood relief around Richmond semi-tidally submerged Lock.\n\nOld Deer Park's heritage as a historic royal landscape in a favoured riverside location has become compromised over recent decades by instances of inappropriate recreational and parking development, general neglect, and insufficient control of tree planting. A long-term strategy is now being implemented to arrest and reverse this decline.\n\nIn the mid-16th century, Richmond Palace was a favourite residence of Queen Elizabeth I and in 1574 she granted \"Our park of Isleworth otherwise called the Newe Parke of Richmonde\" to Edward Bacon. This statement was made even though Isleworth parish and manor lay on the Middlesex bank opposite the Surrey bank of Richmond — the Abbey of Syon in Isleworth was tied to that of Sheen on the other respective bank, which had jointly for centuries owned the estate.\n\nIn the year of the death of Elizabeth at Richmond, 1603, a hunting park was established by King James I by adding monastic land to the existing park and creating an enlarged area of . This then became known as The New Park of Richmond. The present name \"Old Deer Park\" was adopted after 1637 upon the establishment by King Charles I of the much larger Richmond Park on the other side of the town.\n\nThe majority of park is now occupied by the Royal Mid-Surrey Golf Club, and this has been so since 1892. Within the club's boundaries are two 18-hole courses, plus a separate area within which lies the Grade I listed King's Observatory, established by King George III in 1769. To the south-west of the Observatory, under the fairway of the 14th hole of the outer golf course, lie the foundations of the former Carthusian Sheen Priory, founded by Henry V in 1414.\n\nConstruction of the railway line westwards from Richmond Station in 1847/8 restricted the access from Richmond Green to Old Deer Park, except for one narrow bridge. Eighty-five years later a new arterial road (the \"Great Chertsey Road\"), complete with a high ramped approach to a new bridge over the Thames (Twickenham Bridge – built in 1933), was also constructed across the southern end of the park, close to and roughly parallel with the railway. This heightened the sense of separation between town and park – alleviating this problem is also part of the new strategy.\n\nBeside the River Thames in the park are a pair of stone obelisks. They were built in 1769 and were originally used by the King's Observatory to observe the transit of Venus across the Sun that year. However, a legend says that they were erected in the 18th century as memorials to two men who lost their lives in a duel over a woman, who drowned herself in the river.\n\nThe park was used to accommodate 5,000 of the 8,000 Scouts attending the 1st World Scout Jamboree in 1920. The public open spaces are occasionally used for circuses, funfairs and other events.\n\nThe Old Deer Park has been used a venue for cricket since at least 1867, when Richmond played a United South of England Eleven. During its history, the ground has played host to a number of Middlesex Second XI and Surrey Second XI matches.\n\nDespite historically being within Surrey, the ground has played host to List-A matches involving Middlesex, the first of which saw them Nottinghamshire in the 2000 Norwich Union National League. In 2001 the Middlesex Cricket Board played their only List-A match at the ground in the 2001 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy against Berkshire. From 2000 to 2004, the ground held 5 List-A matches, the last of which saw Middlesex play Scotland in the 2004 totesport League.\n\nStarting in the 2003 Twenty20 Cup against Kent, Middlesex have used the ground for six Twenty20 matches to date.\n\nIn local domestic cricket, the ground is the home venue of Richmond Cricket Club.\n\nAccessed from the A316:\nAccessed from the A307:\n\n"}
{"id": "43189224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43189224", "title": "Pakistan Sailing Federation", "text": "Pakistan Sailing Federation\n\nThe Pakistan Sailing Federation is the national governing body of the sport of Sailing in Pakistan.\n\nAfter Independence, sailing activities were undertaken by the Karachi Yacht Club. In 1969, the Pakistan Yachting Association (PYA) was formed. The name of PYA was changed to Pakistan Sailing Federation in 1996.\n\nThe Federation is affiliated with\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39605795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39605795", "title": "Ricky Aitamai", "text": "Ricky Aitamai\n\nRicky Aitamai (born 22 December 1991) is a soccer player from Tahiti currently playing for A.S. Vénus and for Tahiti national football team.\nHe was part of the Tahitian squad at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil.\n"}
{"id": "16219926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16219926", "title": "SV Estudiantes", "text": "SV Estudiantes\n\nSport Vereniging Estudiantes (as known SV Estudiantes) is an Aruban football club based in Oranjestad, which currently play in Aruba's second division.\n\n"}
{"id": "44547076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44547076", "title": "Steve Bizasène", "text": "Steve Bizasène\n\nSteve Bizasène (born 24 April 1970 in Pointe-à-Pitre) is a Guadeloupean professional football player and manager.\n\nIn 1991, he began his career for the AS Beauvais. In Summer 1998 he transferred to the ES Wasquehal. In July 2002 he moved to US Lesquin.\n\nIn 2006, he made his debut for the Guadeloupe national football team.\n\nSince September 2012 he is a head coach of the Guadeloupe national football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "3547767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3547767", "title": "Swaziland at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Swaziland at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nSwaziland competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "4425830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4425830", "title": "Syria at the 1972 Summer Olympics", "text": "Syria at the 1972 Summer Olympics\n\nSyria competed at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. Five competitors, four men and one woman, took part in four events in three sports.\n\nMalak El-Nasser failed to qualify the first round to semi-finals and finished last in her heat in round one.\n\nTwo male shooters represented Syria in 1972.\n"}
