{"id": "13442167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13442167", "title": "Academy of Engineering", "text": "Academy of Engineering\n\nThe Academy of Engineering (AOE) is a group of high school pre-engineering programs styled as academies and administered by the NAF. It was originally a partnership between NAF, Project Lead the Way (PLTW) and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME) in the United States of America. The AOE partnership brought in the first group of freshmen in the 2008-09 school year. The first group of seniors graduated in 2012.\n\nThe thirteen original schools to pilot the program were: \n\n"}
{"id": "18530386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18530386", "title": "Aguilar v. Felton", "text": "Aguilar v. Felton\n\nAguilar v. Felton, 473 U.S. 402 (1985), was a United States Supreme Court case holding that New York City's program that sent public school teachers into parochial schools to provide remedial education to disadvantaged children pursuant to Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 necessitated an excessive entanglement of church and state and violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\n\"Aguilar v. Felton\" was subsequently overruled by \"Agostini v. Felton\", 521 U.S. 203 (1997).\n\n"}
{"id": "35194635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35194635", "title": "Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation", "text": "Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation\n\nThe Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation is one of many programs run by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs as part of its mission of public diplomacy through educational and cultural programming and exchange. Only U.S. Ambassadors serving in eligible developing countries may participate in this program.\n\nEstablished by the U.S. Department of State at the request of the U.S. Congress (Public Law 106-553) and administered by the Bureau’s Cultural Heritage Center since 2001, the U.S. Ambassadors Fund for Cultural Preservation (AFCP) supports the preservation of cultural sites, cultural objects, and forms of traditional cultural expression in eligible countries. In requesting the establishment of AFCP, Congress noted that “Cultural preservation offers an opportunity to show a different American face to other countries, one that is non-commercial, non-political, and non-military. By taking a leading role in efforts to preserve cultural heritage, we show our respect for other cultures…”\n\nThe AFCP supports a wide range of projects to preserve cultural heritage, such as the restoration of historic buildings, archaeological site preservation, assessment and conservation of museum collections, improved storage conditions for archives and manuscripts, and the documentation of vanishing indigenous languages. \n\nSince 2008, the AFCP has also supported a limited number of large-scale projects to preserve globally important ancient and historic sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48204000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48204000", "title": "Centre for Education Policy of India", "text": "Centre for Education Policy of India\n\nA think-tank with a focus on higher education, Centre for Education Policy of India was started to facilitate a platform for discussion / debate among various stakeholders in the sector, be it educationalists, experts, students, teachers as well as those in educational governance amongst others. The ultimate aim is to influence policy with regard to education.\n\nThe centre is governed by an advisory group of experts in the field of higher education, who together with other experts would enrich the discourse on educational reforms by sharing considered opinions, participating in consultations, bringing out White papers and influencing public opinion. In addition, the Centre would initiate surveys/studies to document the ills of the present system. The Centre is promoted by Kanohar Lal Trust Society (KLTS)\n\nKanohar Lal Trust Society is a non-profit organization established in 1968 with the primary objective of furthering the access of education to girls and women in Meerut and Village Sonda in the district of Ghaziabad.\n\nCurrently, there are over 7500 students studying at the various institutions founded and run by the Trust, while several million others, having received their education are serving in a variety of roles.\n\nKLTS has floated the Centre for Education Policy of India with its registered office in Green Park, New Delhi.\n"}
{"id": "56902056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56902056", "title": "Christine Ballengee-Morris", "text": "Christine Ballengee-Morris\n\nChristine Ballengee-Morris is a professor in the Arts Administration, Education and Policy Department for Ohio State University. She is the founding director of the Multicultural Center at Ohio State University. \n\nBallengee-Morris was born on February 15, 1955. She hails from the Appalachia and claims Cherokee descent.\n\nShe grew up in the Dayton, Ohio area. After high school she attended Miami University of Ohio and in 1980 received her BS in art education. She went on to receive a MA in Art Education from Miami University of Ohio and a PhD in art education from Penn State University. After graduating from Penn State in 1995 she accepted a position at Ohio State University. She now teaches classes that specialize in diversity explorations.\n\nBallengee-Morris has written and edited articles for the journal \"Art Education\" from at least 1998 to 2016. She also wrote a chapter in the book \"Real-World Readings in Art Education: Things Your Professor Never Told You\" by Dennis E. Fehr. Ballengee-Morris' chapter, titled \"Mountain Culture: No Hillbillies Here\", details her view on only teaching mainstream art to students and the impact that has on their identity. \n"}
{"id": "27214421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27214421", "title": "Chungdahm Learning", "text": "Chungdahm Learning\n\nChungdahm Learning is one of the largest private education companies in the Republic of Korea, with over 130,000 students across more than 200 schools. Chungdahm Learning has schools and services operating in North America, South America, China, Japan and Vietnam. Chungdahm Institute (CDI), a subsidiary of Chungdahm Learning, is an English language hagwon (private after-school academy) program.\n\nChungdahm Learning was founded in 1998 by CEO Young Hwa Kim, starting as Chungdahm Institute (CDI) and incorporating in 2002. Chungdahm Learning focuses on teaching test-prep English to make English a second language for students. Chungdahm’s methodology implements the use of smart classrooms using tablet PCs and smart textbooks, a first in Korea.\n\nIt launched April Institute to target younger elementary school students in 2007, and was listed on the KOSDAQ market in 2008. In 2012, Chungdahm Learning acquired CMS Education (Math Learning Center). In 2013, Chungdahm 3.0, a smart learning solution, was launched to operate Smart Class at CDL schools. 3.0 classes primarily used the tablet PC instead of traditional textbooks.\n\nIn April 2014, Chungdahm announced plans to partner with Knewton to incorporate Adaptive learning into its curriculum. Chungdahm entered into partnerships with Apax Holdings and EGroup in 2016 to expand Chungdahm's market presence into Vietnam.\n\nThe learning centers operated by the company in Korea include Chungdahm Institute (CDI), April Institute and i-Garten. CDI is the flagship program of the company, focusing exclusively on ESL education, while April Institute focuses on younger elementary school students and i-Garten is specialized for kindergarten students.\n\nChungdahm Learning owns and produces the tablet PC-based Chungdahm 3.0, the smartboard-integrated April 2.0, and CMS math education.\nIn 2014, Loudclass, a tablet-based classroom management platform, launched; it was distributed internationally.\n\nIn 2015, a group of former CDI teachers won recognition as full-time employees by the Supreme Court of Korea entitling the teachers to unpaid severance pay and other benefits. Chungdahm Learning was found to have run a scheme treating foreign teachers as independent contractors instead of employees in contravention of the Labor Standards Act, thereby saving costs by not paying severance contributions to pension or health insurance.\n\nAlso in 2015, an employee of an April branch of Chungdahm Learning denied a job application from a person of color on the basis of race, asserting that their customers preferred Caucasian teachers. Park Kyung-ha, a spokeswoman for Chungdahm, admitted that the job posting was against the guidelines of CDI and the branch owner offered an apology and promise to not post discriminatory job listings in the future.== Penalty rule ==\n\n"}
{"id": "11912900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11912900", "title": "Comics Arts Conference", "text": "Comics Arts Conference\n\nThe Comics Arts Conference (CAC), also known as the Comic Arts Conference, is an academic conference held in conjunction with both the annual Comic-Con International in San Diego, California, and WonderCon in San Francisco. Founded in 1992 by Henderson State University communications professor Randy Duncan and Michigan State University graduate student Peter Coogan (author of the book \"Superhero: The Secret Origin of a Genre\"), the Comic(s) Arts Conference brings together scholars, professionals, critics, industry professionals, and historians who study comics seriously as a medium.\n\nThe Comic(s) Arts Conference first convened on August 12, 1992, at the Marriott Hotel and Marina in San Diego as part of that year's Comic-Con International. CAC's inaugural programming featured presentations on Tijuana bibles, \"The Role of the Indian in the Western Comic Book\", and Coogan's opinion of \"The Present State of Comics Scholarship\". Highlights included Duncan's lecture on \"Applying Rhetorical Methodologies to the Study of Comics\" with highly acclaimed comics professional Will Eisner and noted comics scholar Scott McCloud as respondents. Comics creator Leonard Rifas presented a talk on Fredric Wertham, to which Steve Bissette and Robert C. Harvey responded.\n\nOver time, CAC has evolved and expanded, introducing seminars, poster sessions, and roundtable discussions on topics ranging from the superhero genre as a whole to specific stories or characters. CAC's location originally alternated between San Diego's Comic-Con International (1992, 1993, and 1996) and the Chicago Comicon (later known as Wizard World Chicago Comic Con) in 1994 and 1995 before a 1997 hiatus, then becoming permanently attached to the San Diego Comic-Con as an official part of the international convention in 1998. The Comics Arts Conference expanded in 2007 when it began to meet twice annually, adding sessions at February's WonderCon in San Francisco in addition to July's Comic-Con. The WonderCon conference was repeated in February, 2008, and is intended as a move toward permanently running the conference semi-annually.\n\nTo addition to invited speakers, the conference accepts submissions from anyone in the form of on a wide variety of topics. CAC organizers seek proposals from a broad range of disciplinary and theoretical perspectives, welcoming the participation of academic, independent, and fan scholars. They welcome professionals from all areas of the comics industry, including creators, editors, publishers, retailers, distributors, and journalists.\nPresentations include academic papers as well as less formal panels, poster sessions, and slide talks. CAC encourages professional debate by inviting scholars and professionals to participate as respondents to presentations. Papers and respondents come from a range of backgrounds, perspectives, and disciplines taking either a critical or historical perspective on any aspects of comics. Even university students, both undergraduates and graduate students supervised by their professors, have collected data on Comic-Con and WonderCon fan behaviors in order to present their findings at CAC and presented their efforts in comics creation.\n\nThe open conference includes academically minded historians and chroniclers as well as noted writers, artists and other professionals from \"within\" the comics industry. The first conference, in 1992, featured contributions from Will Eisner and a presentation by noted professional Steve Bissette entitled \"Journey into Fear: The History and Heritage of the Horror Comic\". It also saw a preview by Scott McCloud of his then-up-coming masterwork \"Understanding Comics\".\n\nEisner and McCloud became semi-regular attendees in subsequent years, including 2002 when they joined Robert C. Harvey for the tenth-anniversary Comic Arts Conference in a wide-ranging discussion entitled \"Eisner, Harvey, and McCloud Ten Years Later: The Dialogue Continues\". Over the years, other noted industry professionals who have taken part include Jessica Abel, Scott Allie, Donna Barr, Amber Benson, Kurt Busiek, Adrianne Curry, Steve Englehart, Jane Espenson, Michael Eury, Danny Fingeroth, Christos Gage, Rick Geary, Katrina Hill, Phil Jiminez, Michael William Kaluta, Arie Kaplan, Barbara Kesel, Chip Kidd, Matt Kindt, Clare Kramer, Alex Langley, Nick Langley, Hope Larson, Tom Lenk, Paul Levitz, Steve Lieber, Marjorie Liu, Jean-Marc Lofficier, David Lloyd, Jay Lynch, Heidi MacDonald, Lee Meriwether, Cindy Morgan, Dennis O'Neil, David Peterson, Jerry Robinson, Trina Robbins, Peter Sanderson, Seth, Gail Simone, J. Michael Straczynski, Michael Uslan, Rick Veitch, Mark Waid, Len Wein, Adam West, Bill Willingham, and E. Paul Zehr. The conference is held concurrently with the international comic book convention in order to facilitate comic book professionals' involvement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42813835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42813835", "title": "Data publishing", "text": "Data publishing\n\nData publishing (also data publication) is the act of releasing research data in published form for (re)use by others. It is a practice consisting in preparing certain data or data set(s) for public use thus to make them available to everyone to use as they wish. \nThis practice is an integral part of the open science movement. \nThere is a large and multidisciplinary consensus on the benefits resulting from this practice.\n\nThe main goal is to elevate data to be first class research outputs.\nThere are a number of initiatives underway as well as points of consensus and issues still in contention.\n\nThere are several distinct ways to make research data available, including: \nPublishing data allows researchers to both make their data available to others to use, and enables datasets to be cited similarly to other research publication types (such as articles or books), thereby enabling producers of datasets to gain academic credit for their work.\n\nThe motivations for publishing data may range for a desire to make research more accessible, to enable citability of datasets, or research funder or publisher mandates that require open data publishing.\n\nA large number of journals and publishers support supplementary material being attached to research articles, including datasets. Though historically such material might have been distributed only by request or on microform to libraries, journals today typically host such material online. Supplementary material is available to subscribers to the journal or, if the article or journal is open access, to everyone.\n\nThere are a large number of data repositories, on both general and specialized topics. Many repositories are disciplinary repositories, focused on a particular research discipline. Repositories may be free for researchers to upload their data or may charge a one-time or ongoing fee for hosting the data. These repositories offer a publicly-accessible web interface for searching and browsing hosted datasets, and may include additional features such as a digital object identifier, for permanent citation of the data, and linking to associated published papers and code.\n\nData papers are “scholarly publication of a searchable metadata document describing a particular on-line accessible dataset, or a group of datasets, published in accordance to the standard academic practices”.\nTheir final aim being to provide “information on the what, where, why, how and who of the data”.\nThe intent of a data paper is to offer descriptive information on the related dataset(s) focusing on data collection, distinguishing features, access and potential reuse rather than on data processing and analysis. Because data papers are considered academic publications no different than other types of papers they allow scientists sharing data to receive credit in currency recognizable within the academic system, thus \"making data sharing count\". This provides not only an additional incentive to share data, but also through the peer review process, increases the quality of metadata and thus reusability of the shared data.\n\nThus data papers represent the scholarly communication approach to data sharing.\n\nDespite their potentiality, data papers are not the ultimate and complete solution for all the data sharing and reuse issues and, in some cases, they are considered to induce false expectations in the research community.\n\nData papers are supported by a rich array of journals, some of which are \"pure\", i.e. they are dedicated to publish data papers only, while others – the majority – are \"mixed\", i.e. they publish a number of articles types including data papers.\n\nA comprehensive survey on data journals is available \nA non-exhaustive list of data journals has been compiled by staff at the University of Edinburgh.\n\nExamples of \"pure\" data journals are: \"Earth System Science Data\", \"Scientific Data\", \"Journal of Open Archaeology Data\", and \"Open Health Data\".\n\nExamples of \"mixed\" journals publishing data papers are: \"SpringerPlus\", \"PLOS ONE\", \"Biodiversity Data Journal\", \"F1000Research\", and \"GigaScience\".\n\nData citation is the provision of accurate, consistent and standardised referencing for datasets just as bibliographic citations are provided for other published sources like research articles or monographs. Typically the well established Digital Object Identifier (DOI) approach is used with DOIs taking users to a website that contains the metadata on the dataset and the dataset itself.\n\nSeveral organizations have been established with the aim of driving the data citation agenda. These include the following:\n\nData citation is an emerging topic in computer science and it has been defined as a computational problem.\nIndeed, citing data poses significant challenges to computer scientists and the main problems to address are related to:\n\n"}
{"id": "8758352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8758352", "title": "Developmentally appropriate practice", "text": "Developmentally appropriate practice\n\nDevelopmentally appropriate practice (or DAP) is a perspective within early childhood education whereby a teacher or child caregiver nurtures a child's social/emotional, physical, and cognitive development by basing all practices and decisions on (1) theories of child development, (2) individually identified strengths and needs of each child uncovered through authentic assessment, and (3) the child's cultural background as defined by his community, family history, and family structure.\n\nDevelopmentally Appropriate Practice (DAP) is the practice of an excellent educator who knows and changes his/her teaching practices to meet the students where they are developmentally. In order to adjust teaching practices to meet these students' needs, the teacher must research and be educated on child development and a variety of approaches in order to teach the children. Every approach or teaching strategy should be appropriate for the students in the classroom. Teachers can use multiple strategies in one lesson to ensure all children are learning. To ensure each students' needs are being met the educator must know each student and know where he/she is developmentally and what works for him/her. Meeting the students' needs and adjusting the way a skill or concept is being taught does not mean the educator makes the task easier for the student. Instead, the educator challenges the student by setting a goal that is attainable without frustrating the student. Along with adjusting to meet the students where they are developmentally the educator must take into consideration the students' cultural and social contexts. These practices and this knowledge base are a foundation or a starting point for educators as they make decisions in their classrooms.[1]\n\nThe National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) wrote a position statement to outline best practices for teachers and educators of all kinds. The position statement was adopted in 2009 and is written solely based on research about child development, child learning, and effective educational practices. Educators have the responsibility to narrow the achievement gap for students who come from all kinds of backgrounds and give them learning opportunities they may not have the ability to experience outside of the school. Giving the child experiences that are both led by them and led by the teacher are important for the child's development and learning. Child-led experiences can come from play, which is an extremely important way to learn and spend time as a child. Children may not have the opportunity at home to have well developed or engaging play where they will learn social skills, cognitive skills, or emotional skills. These are very important skills for children to develop. Teacher-led experiences should be well developed, well thought out, consist of a variety of approaches and be completely focused on the children. This position statement gives educators and teachers guidance and principles to keep in mind in decision making, classroom community, enhancing planning curriculum for development, assessing child development and building relationships with families.[2]\n\nChildren ages 3-5 are referred to as preschoolers. The preschool years are a vitally important period of learning and development in all areas of human functioning- physical, social and emotional, cognitive (including perception, reasoning, memory, and other aspects of academic and intellectual development), and language. It is also established that best development and learning during these years is most likely to occur when children establish positive and caring relationships with adults and other children; receive carefully planned, intentional adult guidance and assistance; and explore interesting environments with many things to do and learn.\n\nEarly childhood teachers, in collaboration with families, are responsible for ensuring that that program promotes the development and enhances the learning of each individual child served; in other words, professionals must ensure that the program is developmentally appropriate. Ensuring this requires that teachers have a great deal of knowledge, skill, and training. Children entering preschool vary significantly in what they know and can do.\n\nConsiderable growth and change occur in children during the preschool years in all areas of development. To function most effectively, preschool teachers need to know about the goals, sequences, and trajectories of development in all of those areas- to avoid a scaled-down version of curriculum intended for older children and to understand the importance of communicating with kindergarten and other teachers and aligning the curriculum accordingly.\n\nThree-year-olds are no longer toddlers, but they behave like toddlers at times, and they are not steady in their gains. Children's social skills are still uncertain, they are still working on how to regulate and appropriately express their emotions, and they are not yet able to communicate their ideas and feelings in skilled, complex ways. They believe in fairies and monsters and have trouble with logical sequences that seem basic to adults- which is why adults tend to underestimate their abilities. Yet at other times, their language ability, motor skills, reasoning abilities, and other behaviors make them seem older than they are.\n\nThe challenge for the preschool teacher is to maintain appropriate expectations, providing each child with the right amount of challenge, support, sensitivity, and stimulation that promotes development and learning- all of which can only happen within the context of a close, nurturing teacher-child relationship.\n\nPreschoolers revel in their increasing coordination, using their bodies cheerfully and enthusiastically. They thrive in environments that encourage them to experiment with new materials, roles, and ideas through various projects and especially through play. They have great interest in feelings and are better able to express and label their emotions and identify others' emotions. They make some important gains in cognition, allowing them the pleasure of representing their world in pretend play, symbols, objects, drawings, and words. And, given a rich language environment, they show impressive gains in language skills.\n\nPreschoolers are an enchanting, enthusiastic, curious, and inherently playful and imaginative bunch, providing the adults who work with them entry to a world of great charm and delight!\n\nCopple, C. & Bredekamp, S. (2009). Developmentally appropriate practice in early childhood programs: Serving children from birth through age 8. 3d ed. Washington, DC: National Association for the Education of Young Children.\n\nIn the Kindergarten Year, children are 5-6 years old, learning through play, community, and social interaction with peers. As a kindergarten teacher it is developmentally appropriate to be modeling positive social interactions in the classroom, fostering positive relationships between students of different cultures and ethnicities, give children leadership roles in the classroom, and teach in whole and small group settings, with peer interaction during instruction. It is important in this year that children spend the majority of the day moving, with little time sitting down and still. They should be working and developing their fine and gross motor skills through this daily movement. Children should also be spending time playing outside everyday, with a regular physical education schedule.\n\nIn kindergarten children should be learning body and spatial awareness, as well as key movements like balancing, jumping and catching objects of varied size. Children should have time daily to exercise their fine motor skills, such as through writing with utensils of varied size, using scissors, play dough, puzzles, etc. Along with physical development, kindergarten is a time when students should be developing self-help skills, which should be promoted by teachers through giving students daily activities that teach them to care for themselves. These activities would look like washing their hands, putting on jackets and cleaning up after their own classroom activity.\n\nTeachers should be giving regular time in the classroom for students to be conversing with others, and working in small groups on projects that teach communication, listening and understanding skills. Teachers should provide opportunities for students to verbally respond to questions, describe scenarios, retell stories, and give directions. It is important that English Second Language students are integrated and involved in these discussions and peer work time, in order to develop their listening, speaking and understanding skills.\n\nAcademically students should be introducing phonological and phonemic awareness by implementing songs, poems, books, etc. Students should have books read to them on a daily basis. Books should be available in a classroom library at all times and contain a variety of story types. It is appropriate at this age that students be taught the sounds of letters, and writing should be encouraged throughout. Math is taught through manipulatives, block play, games, etc., and at this age it is natural for students to begin to try and make sense of the world through mathematics. Science is based off students natural curiosity and experiences. Science should be a hands on activity.\n\nTechnology should be integrated into the classroom through computers, and any other available technology in the classroom, but should foster problem solving and thinking, and by teachers to document children.\n\nCopple, C. & Bredekamp, S. (2009). Developmentally appropriate practice in early childhood programs: Serving children from birth through age 8. 3d ed. Washington, DC: National Association for the Education of Young Children.\n\nDuring the early grades, children gain increasing mastery in every area, both in their development and their learning. The exploring, problem solving, communicating, etc. that children do during this time period enthuses and interests them, which teachers can use at this age to create a lifelong love for learning. In order for primary children to prosper, they need warm and sensitive teaching, integrated learning, authentic assessment, and a mix of child and teacher-guided activities.\n\nDuring the primary grades, it is essential for children to learn how to read. It, however, is equally important that the children develop the desire to read. This sets the tone for almost everything in the classroom and, most often times, determines what type of student the child will be. Teacher's build such enthusiasm by showing interest in each individual child's needs and show genuine excitement for their learning. Teachers should provide a variety of ways for students to learn being that every individual learns in their own way. This will encourage student effort, despite the type of learner the child is.\n\nPhysically, children in the primary grades grow around 2-3 inches in height, with their face maturing a good bit as well. It is during this time that the child's face starts to elongate to accommodate permanent teeth. The child's major gross motor skills have typically developed by this time. As far as fine motor skills, some children have started to develop them by this age, while some are still refining these skills.\n\nSocially, primary aged children need an atmosphere characterized by good conversation, laughter, and excitement over accomplishments. It is important that a teacher creates this type of atmosphere in the classroom in order to promote what is developmentally appropriate for these grade levels.\n\nAs far as emotionally, children in the primary grades are largely guided by their emotions and they are the main force guiding behavior as well as learning from infancy through adulthood. The ability to infer other's thoughts, feelings, and intentions is a key component to help kids develop and maintain relationships. It is during the primary grades that students become increasingly able to consider the feelings and emotions of others.\n\nCognitively, primary aged children are making great strides. A significant, yet gradual, change occurs in most children between the ages of five and seven. This being because they become able to think about things more dimensionally, which allows them to solve a wider range of problems. Due to this cognitive growth, children in the primary grades enjoy challenges that test their growing skills. That is, as long as they are able to experience success following these challenges. This is something that teachers should keep in mind in the primary grades when they are creating material.\n\nAs far as language goes, children experience a drastic growth in the primary grades following the already substantial growth that happens in the preschool years. It is during this time period that children start to develop actual writing and reading skills, as opposed to the preschool and kindergarten years where listening, speaking, and reading skills are only just emerging. \n\nCopple, C. & Bredekamp, S. (2009). Developmentally appropriate practice in early childhood programs: Serving children from birth through age 8. 3d ed. Washington, DC: National Association for the Education of Young Children. \n"}
{"id": "20145463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20145463", "title": "Early Childhood Research Quarterly", "text": "Early Childhood Research Quarterly\n\nEarly Childhood Research Quarterly is an academic journal providing current research (predominantly empirical) in the field of early childhood (birth through eight years of age) education and development that was established in 1986. The journal also publishes occasional book reviews, practitioner/policy perspectives, and research reviews. Its focus is on education, policy, and social relevance, seeking links between research and practice. The journal is published four times a year by Elsevier and sponsored by the National Association for the Education of Young Children. Its previous publishers were Pergamon Press and Ablex Publishing. The editor in chief is Laura Justice (The Ohio State University). Previous editors include Adam Winsler (George Mason University), Karen E. Diamond (Purdue University) and Lilian G. Katz.\n"}
{"id": "5880215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5880215", "title": "Frontal instruction", "text": "Frontal instruction\n\nLecture-style instruction or teacher-centred instruction commonly refers to lessons where the teaching activities take place from the front of the classroom. Alternate forms of teaching – referred to as \"student-centred instruction\", \"participatory learning\", or \"hands-on learning\" – are group work, solitary work or open learning\n\n"}
{"id": "43155498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43155498", "title": "Harvey Society", "text": "Harvey Society\n\nThe Harvey Society is a learned society based in New York City, Named after the British scientist William Harvey (1578–1657), its scope is \"the diffusion of knowledge of the medical sciences\". Since its founding in 1905, the society has sponsored an annual series of lectures given by leading biomedical researchers which it publishes in book form at the end of the year. The society's seven annual lectures are now held at Rockefeller University's Caspary Auditorium.\n\nOn 1 April 1905 a group of 13 prominent New York physicians and scientists met at 9 East 74 Street in the residence of physiologist Graham Lusk. Also in attendance was John J. Abel, a noted pharmacologist from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Their intention was to form a society which would forge a \"closer relationship between the purely practical side of medicine and the results of laboratory investigation\" by organizing a lecture series which would be open to physicians, scientists, and the general public.\n\nThe society's first meeting took place on October 7, 1905 in the Academy of Medicine with a lecture on the theory of narcosis by Hans Horst Meyer, Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Vienna. According to the \"New York Times\", it was delivered in German. However, The English version of the lecture was printed in the society's first book of 13 lectures published in 1906 by J. B. Lippincott & Co..\n\nThe society's founding officers were:\n\nOther founding members included\n"}
{"id": "8530103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530103", "title": "Higher education in Portugal", "text": "Higher education in Portugal\n\nHigher education in Portugal is divided into two main subsystems: university and polytechnic education. It is provided in autonomous public and private universities, university institutes, polytechnic institutes and higher education institutions of other types. \n\nThe higher education institutions of Portugal grant the licentiate, master and doctor academic degrees, with the last one being reserved to be granted only by the university institutions. \n\nHigher education in state-run educational establishments is provided on a competitive basis, a system of \"numerus clausus\" is enforced through a national database on student admissions. In addition, every higher education institution offers also a number of additional vacant places through other extraordinary admission processes for sportsmen, mature applicants (over 23 years old), international students, foreign students from the Lusosphere, degree owners from other institutions, students from other institutions (academic transfer), former students (readmission), and course change, which are subject to specific standards and regulations set by each institution or course department. \n\nPortuguese universities have existed since 1290. The oldest such institution, the University of Coimbra, was first established in Lisbon before moving to Coimbra. Historically, within the scope of the now defunct Portuguese Empire, the Portuguese founded in 1792 the oldest engineering school of the Americas (the Real Academia de Artilharia, Fortificação e Desenho), as well as the oldest medical college of Asia (the Escola Médico-Cirúrgica de Goa) in 1842.\n\nIn Portugal, the university system has a strong theoretical basis and is highly research-oriented while the polytechnical system provides a more practical training and is profession-oriented. Degrees in fields such as medicine, law, pharmaceutical sciences, natural sciences, economics, psychology or veterinary medicine are taught only in university institutions. Other fields like engineering, technology, management, education, agriculture, sports, or humanities are taught both in university and polytechnic institutions. Specifically vocationally oriented degrees such as, nursing, health care technician, accounting technician, preschool and primary school teaching, are only offered by the polytechnic institutions.\n\nThe oldest university is the University of Coimbra founded in 1290. The largest university, by number of enrolled students, is the University of Porto - with approximately 28,000 students. The Catholic University of Portugal, the oldest \"non-state-run\" university (concordatary status), was instituted by decree of the Holy See and has been recognized by the State of Portugal since 1971. A few polytechnical higher education institutions, though formed as such in the 1980s, have their origin in 19th century educational institutions - this is the case of the Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa, the Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto and the Escola Superior Agrária de Coimbra.\n\nPublic or private higher education institutions or courses cannot operate, or are not accredited, if they are not recognized by the \"Ministério da Ciência, Tecnologia e Ensino Superior\" (Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education). The two systems of higher education - university and polytechnic - are linked, and it is possible to transfer from one to the other through extraordinary effort. It is also possible to transfer from a private institution to a public one (or vice versa) on the same basis.\n\nMany universities are usually organized by faculty (\"faculdade\"). Institute (\"instituto\") and school (\"escola\") are also common designations for autonomous units of Portuguese higher learning institutions, and are always used in the polytechnical system, though several universities also use these systems.\n\nAccess to public higher education institutions is subject to enrollment restrictions (numerus clausus), and students must compete for admission. Students who hold a diploma of secondary education (12th grade) or the equivalent, who meet all legal requirements, particularly exams in specific subjects in which minimum marks must be obtained, may apply. Any citizen over 23 years old who does not have the secondary education diploma (12th grade) can attempt to gain admission to a limited number of vacant places available, through special examination which includes an interview (Decree law: \"Decreto-Lei 64/2006, de 21 de Março\"). Public university's tuition fees are greater than polytechnics', and polytechnic weekend and evening classes are usually organized. For a large number of academic fields, undergraduate and graduate admission criteria and student evaluation in most public university institutions are usually more selective and demanding than in many private institutions or polytechnic institutions. Access to private higher education institutions is regulated by each institution.\n\nAfter 2006, with the approval of new legislation on the frame of the Bologna Process, any polytechnic or university institution of Portugal is able to award a first cycle of study, known as \"licenciatura\" (licentiate) plus a second cycle which confers a \"mestrado\" (master's degree). Before then, only university institutions awarded master's degrees. All institutions award master's degrees after a second cycle of study, and some universities award integrated master's degrees (joint degrees) through a longer single cycle of study, with fields such as medicine having an initial 6-year study cycle needed for a master's degree. \"Doutoramentos\" (Ph.D. degrees) are only awarded by university institutions. Only university institutions carry out fundamental research in addition to research and development. However, since after the Bologna Process (2006/2007) an increasingly large number of polytechnical institutions have established to some extent their own research and development units.\n\nThere are also special higher education institutions linked with the military and the police. These institutions generally have good reputations and are popular among students because their courses are a passport to the military/police career. These state-run institutions are the Air Force Academy, the Military Academy, the Naval School and the \"Instituto Superior de Ciências Policiais e Segurança Interna\".\n\nAccording to the OECD's Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA), the average Portuguese 15-year-old student was for many years underrated and underachieving in terms of reading literacy, mathematics and science knowledge in the OECD, nearly tied with the Italian and just above those from countries like Greece, Turkey and Mexico. However, since 2010, PISA results for Portuguese students improved dramatically. If this was true, it could be translated into a higher average level of readiness and academic skill among freshmen attending Portuguese universities and other higher education institutions. However, the Portuguese Ministry of Education announced a 2010 report published by its office for educational evaluation GAVE (Gabinete de Avaliação do Ministério da Educação) which criticized the results of PISA 2009 report and claimed that the average Portuguese teenage student had profound handicaps in terms of expression, communication and logic, as well as a low performance when asked to solve problems. They also claimed that those fallacies are not exclusive of Portugal but indeed occur in other countries due to the way PISA was designed.\n\nIn Portugal, university and college attendance before the 1960s, including for the period of Portuguese monarchy which ended in 1910, and for most of the Estado Novo regime (1920s - 1974), was very limited to the tiny elites, like members of the bourgeoisie and high ranked political and military authorities. In addition, there were few institutions of higher education, low levels of secondary education attainment, and a high illiteracy rate for Western European standards. However, during the last decade of the Estado Novo regime, from the 1960s to the 1974 Carnation Revolution, secondary and university education experienced the fastest growth of Portuguese education's history. Today higher education, which includes polytechnic institutions and university institutions, is generalized but very heterogeneous, with different tonalities and subsystems. Overcrowded classrooms, obsolete curricula, unequal competition among institutions, frequent rule changing in the sector and increasingly higher tuition fees (inside the public higher education system, although much smaller than private institution fees) that can be a financial burden for many students, have been a reality until the present day, though some improvements have been made since the Bologna Process implementation in 2007/2008. The Bologna Process created a more uniform and homogeneous higher educational system, at least within the public university and polytechnical institutions. Nearly 40% of the higher education students do not finish their degrees, although an undisclosed number of those students are subsequently readmitted into other courses or institutions of their choice. Despite their problems, many good institutions have a long tradition of excellence in teaching and research, where students and professors can attain their highest academic ambitions.\nIn Portugal, the university system has a strong theoretical basis and is highly research-oriented while the polytechnical system provides a more practical training and is profession-oriented. Degrees in fields such as medicine, law, pharmaceutical sciences, natural sciences, economics, psychology or veterinary medicine are taught only in university institutions. Other fields like engineering, technology, management, education, agriculture, sports, or humanities are taught both in university and polytechnic institutions.\n\nPublic or private higher education institutions or courses cannot operate, or are not accredited, if they are not recognized by the Ministerio da Ciencia, Tecnologia e Ensino Superior (Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education). The two systems of higher education - university and polytechnic - are linked, and it is possible to transfer from one to the other through extraordinary effort. It is also possible to transfer from a private institution to a public one (or vice versa) on the same basis.\n\nAccess to public higher education institutions is subject to enrollment restrictions (numerus clausus), and students must compete for admission. Students who hold a diploma of secondary education (12th grade) or the equivalent, who meet all legal requirements, particularly exams in specific subjects in which minimum marks must be obtained, may apply. Any citizen over 23 years old who does not have the secondary education diploma (12th grade) can attempt to gain admission to a limited number of vacant places available, through special examination which includes an interview . \nAfter 2006, with the approval of new legislation on the frame of the Bologna Process, any polytechnic or university institution of Portugal is able to award a first cycle of study, known as licenciatura (licentiate) plus a second cycle which confers a mestrado (master's degree). Before then, only university institutions awarded master's degrees. All institutions award master's degrees after a second cycle of study, and some universities award integrated master's degrees (joint degrees) through a longer single cycle of study, with fields such as medicine having an initial 6-year study cycle needed for a master's degree.\n\nThere are also special higher education institutions linked with the military and the police. These institutions generally have good reputations and are popular among students because their courses are a passport to the military/police career. These state-run institutions are the Air Force Academy, the Military Academy, the Naval School and the Instituto Superior de Ciências Policiais e Segurança Interna.\n\nOver 35% of college-age citizens (20 years old) attend one of the country's higher education institutions (compared with 50% in the United States and 35% in the OECD countries).\n\nPortugal has two main systems of higher education:\n\n\nThe state-run universities (\"Universidades\") are governed by a Rector, and are groupings of faculties, and university institutes, departments or schools. They have been created mostly in the most populated and industrialized areas near the coast (although strategically balanced with three establishments opened after 1970 in the northern, central and southern interior regions), being established in the main cities. Two of these universities are located in the Azores and Madeira Islands, and the remaining eleven in Continental Portugal. Three of them are located in Lisbon, the capital of Portugal (four considering also the Lisbon University Institute ISCTE, a large public university institute). Public universities have full autonomy in the creation and delivery of degree programmes, which are to be registered at DGES - \"Direcção-Geral do Ensino Superior\" (State Agency for Higher Education). Universities are regulated by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, and are represented as a whole by the \"CRUP - Conselho de Reitores das Universidades Portuguesas\".\n\nThe state-run polytechnic institutes (\"Institutos Politécnicos\") are governed by a President, and are groupings of superior schools (\"escolas superiores\") and institutes, in major cities these also include superior institutes (\"institutos superiores\"). They have been created across the country after 1980. The fast expansion of the polytechnic institutes, whose entrance and teaching requirements before the mid-2000s were in general less demanding than the universities' criteria, was an administrative attempt to reduce the elevated rate of pre-higher education abandon and to increase the number of (under)graduates per one million inhabitants in Portugal which were dramatically below the European average (this does not imply that its students haven't become competent professionals). For the Portuguese State it was also considerably faster and cheaper to build the \"Institutos Politécnicos\" (Polytechnic Institutes) in almost all district capitals across the country, than build a few new universities - in average, state-funding per student is about 60% higher for university students than for polytechnic students; however, even university students' average funding per capita is about 60% lower in Portugal than in Scandinavia or North America. The number of doctorate-level teaching staff in the universities has been much larger than polytechnic's - only after the 2006 Bologna Process, polytechnics reached a 10% share of doctorate-level teachers, while universities had always been home to a teaching staff with over 40% of doctorates. Since the mid-2000s, after many reforms, upgrades and changes, including the Bologna process, the polytechnic institutes have become \"de facto\" technical universities with little formal difference between them and the classic full chartered universities (polytechnics can't award doctorate degrees and, in general, they are not true research institutions, with few exceptions). The creation of degree programmes by public polytechnics require their prior approval from Government, through DGES - \"Direccção Geral do Ensino Superior\" (State Agency for Higher Education). Polytechnics are regulated by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, and are represented as a whole by the \"CCISP - Conselho Coordenador dos Institutos Superiores Politécnicos Portugueses\".\n\nThe creation of private institutions and delivery of degree programmes by them, require prior approval from Government, through DGES - \"Direccção Geral do Ensino Superior\", after assessment by experts teams, which are nominated by the Government.\n\nThis system has resulted in increasing manifestations of concern from polytechnic and, above all, private institutions, arguing against discretionary attitudes and unnecessary bureaucracy. Government replies defend the necessity of maintaining selective mechanisms to secure a minimum level of institution quality, rationalize the whole system, and protect educational standards. In the 1990s and 2000s, there was anyway a fast growth and proliferation of private higher education and state-run polytechnical institutions with lower educational standards and ambiguous academic integrity.\n\nAdmission to public university programmes are often more demanding and selective than to their equivalent in public polytechnic and private institutions. Many specific university institutions and degrees are also regarded as more prestigious and academically robust than their peers from the polytechnic system or from certain less notable university institutions.\n\nPublic university schools have a long history in Portugal. They started in the Middle Ages, and like other European medieval universities at the time, they were founded by the monarchs under the authority and supervision of the Catholic Church. For many centuries there was only one university, the University of Coimbra, founded in 1290 in Lisbon. It was founded as a \"Studium Generale\" (\"Estudo Geral\"). Scientiae thesaurus mirabilis, the royal charter announcing the institution of the current University of Coimbra was dated 1 March of that year, although efforts had been made at least since 1288 to create this first university studies in Portugal. Throughout history it transferred between Coimbra and Lisbon several times, definitely settling in Coimbra during the 16th century (1537). The \"Colégio do Espírito Santo\", a university college, was an old higher learning institution which operated between 1559 and 1759 in Évora, but it was shut down during the Marquis of Pombal government, because it was run by the Jesuits, and the marquis implemented strong secular policies. A new state-run university at Évora was founded in 1973 - the University of Évora. Within the scope of the Portuguese Empire, the Portuguese founded in 1792 the oldest engineering school of Latin America (the Real Academia de Artilharia, Fortificação e Desenho), as well as the oldest medical college of Asia (the Goa Medical College) in 1842.\n\nSince the population was largely illiterate, the two universities at Coimbra and Évora, and some later higher-education schools in Lisbon (e.g. \"(Escola Politécnica: 1837-1911; Curso Superior de Letras: 1859-1911; and Curso Superior de Comércio: 1884–1911)\") and Porto \"(successively Aula Náutica: 1762-1803; Real Academia da Marinha e Comércio: 1803-1837; and the Academia Politécnica: 1837–1911)\", were enough for a small population inside a territory like Continental Portugal of the 16th-19th centuries. During the 19th century some other isolated higher-education schools were established. For instance, two medical schools were established: the Lisbon Royal Medical-Surgical School and Porto Royal Medical-Surgical School opened in 1825. They were later incorporated into two new universities created in 1911 in Lisbon and Porto, which also absorbed Lisbon's former \"Escola Politécnica\" and \"Curso Superior de Letras\", and Porto's \"Academia Politécnica\", which were reformed and upgraded their facilities in the same year. Other successive institutions were the IST - Instituto Superior Técnico and the \"Instituto Superior de Comércio\", successor of the former \"Curso Superior de Comércio\", (today ISEG - Instituto Superior de Economia e Gestão), both born from the former Lisbon Institute of Industry and Commerce which originated the creation of university schools in 1911.\n\nWith the advent of the Republic, the University of Lisbon and the University of Porto were created in 1911. In 1930, a new university in Lisbon was created, the Technical University of Lisbon, which incorporated the \"Instituto Superior Técnico\" and some other university institutes and colleges such as the \"Instituto Superior de Comércio\", and agriculture and veterinary schools.\n\nIn 1972 the ISCTE, a public university institute, was created in Lisbon by the decree \"Decreto-Lei nº 522/72, of 15 December\", as a first step towards a new and innovative public university in the city. Due to the carnation revolution of 1974 this first facility of a never-completed projected larger university stayed alone. In 1973 a new wave of state-run universities opened in Lisbon - the New University of Lisbon, Braga - the Minho University and Évora - the University of Évora. These last days of the Estado Novo regime were marked by the most significant growth in enrolments for both secondary and university education in Portugal. After 1974, the anti-Estado Novo revolution's year, new public universities were created in Vila Real - the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Aveiro - the University of Aveiro, Covilhã - the University of Beira Interior (upgraded from the former Polytechnic Institute of Covilhã which was created in 1973), Faro - the University of the Algarve, Madeira - the University of Madeira, and the Azores - the University of the Azores.\n\nIn 1988, the Portuguese government founded a public distance university, the \"Universidade Aberta\" (Aberta University), an \"Open University\" with headquarters in Lisbon, regional branches in Porto and Coimbra, and study centres all over the country.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, a boom of private institutions was experienced and many private universities started to open. Most private universities had a poor reputation and were known for making it easy for students to enter and also to get high grades. In 2007, several of those private institutions or their heirs, were investigated and faced compulsory closing (for example, the infamous Independente University closing) or official criticism with recommendations that the state-managed investigation proposed for improving their quality and avoid termination.\n\nWithout large endowments like those received, for example, by many US private universities and colleges which are attractive to the best researchers and students, the private higher education institutions of Portugal, with a few exceptions, do not have neither the financial support nor the academic profile to reach the highest teaching and research standards of the top Portuguese public universities. In addition, the private universities have faced a restrictive lack of collaboration with the major enterprises which, however, have developed fruitful relationships with many public higher education institutions.\n\nNowadays, the Catholic University of Portugal, a private university with branches in the cities of Lisbon, Porto, Braga, Viseu, and Figueira da Foz (founded before the others, in 1967, and officially recognized in 1971), offers some well-recognized degrees. This private university has a unique status, being run by the Catholic Church.\n\nThe Portuguese universities have been the exclusive granters of master's and doctoral degrees in the country and are to this day the major source of research and development in Portugal. Today, as in the past, they have full autonomy to offer all levels of academic degrees and the power to create new graduate or undergraduate courses in almost every major field of study. By the time of the implementation of the Bologna Process (2006) in Portuguese higher education, 42.5% of the state-run university teaching staff had a doctorate degree in 2005 - 65% in 2007 after the Bologna Process. (see list of universities in Portugal)\n\nDue to the Portuguese sovereign debt crisis in the late 2000s, and the subsequent IMF-EU financial assistance to the Portuguese Republic from 2011 onward, many universities and other higher education institutions suffered financially. Many were on verge of bankruptcy and were forced to increase its admissions and tuition fees while the budget dwindled and staff members and bonuses were being reduced.\n\nPortuguese learning institutions called \"polytechnics\" or \"industrial and commercial institutes\" were established in various periods with very different roles and objectives. They were designations for institutions ranging from university or polytechnic institutes to technical and vocational institutes.\n\nThe 19th century - the industrialization era - created the need for new education programs in the country, the \"industrial studies\". In 1837, the \"Escola Politécnica\" (Polytechnic School) in Lisbon and the \"Academia Politécnica\" (Polytechnic Academy) in Porto were opened. They were university higher learning institutions conferring academic degrees, fully focused on the sciences, mathematics, and engineering. Apart from sharing the name, they were not related to the polytechnic subsystem which has existed in Portugal since the 1970s, or to any current institution belonging to it.\n\nThe label and legal statute of \"University\" had been reserved for exclusive use by the University of Coimbra, but with the Republican revolution in 1911, two new universities were founded. The \"Escola Politécnica\" and \"Academia Politécnica\" were the core from which the sciences and engineering faculties, respectively, of the new universities of Lisbon and Porto emerged.\n\nThe Prime Minister of the Kingdom, Fontes Pereira de Melo, was not satisfied with the excessive academism of both schools (\"Escola Politécnica\" (Polytechnic School) in Lisbon and the \"Academia Politécnica\" (Polytechnic Academy)), as he considered the institutions excessively theoretical for industrial labour force needs, as both were modelled on the only Portuguese university - the ancient University of Coimbra. Thus, in 1852, the minister created the \"Instituto Industrial de Lisboa\" (Lisbon Industrial Institute) which awarded higher education degrees between 1898 and 1911, and the \"Escola Industrial do Porto\" (Porto Industrial School), which a decade later was also declared an Institute and awarded higher education degrees between 1905 and 1918. The \"Instituto Industrial de Lisboa\" gave birth to the \"IST\" in 1911, which with other institutions formed the Technical University of Lisbon in 1930.\n\nThe Industrial Superior Studies were cut in 1918 by the minister Azevedo Neves reforms, as the country suffered many social and political convulsions, and the creation in 1911 of the new universities in Lisbon and Porto covered the highest educational needs of the country at the time. Between 1918 and 1974 (until the approval of decree Decreto-Lei 830/74 of 31 December 1974), the Industrial and Commercial Institutes in Porto and Lisbon, plus new ones created in Coimbra (1965) and Aveiro, provided vocational and technical education, instead of higher education.\n\nThe idea of creating a polytechnic sector in Portugal can be traced back to the OECD's\nMediterranean Regional Project, MRP, of 1959. This project aimed at assessing future needs for skilled labour in five Mediterranean countries (Italy, Greece, Spain, Yugoslavia and Portugal) and had a lasting impact in terms of the political and social perception of education, with significant effects on the educational structure of the participating countries. These changes included the expansion of the higher education network by creating new university-level institutions, while a binary system was initiated through the establishment of polytechnic institutes and several colleges of teacher training (Parliament Act 5/73 of 25 July). After 1974 the existing polytechnics were transformed into University Institutes under the allegation that they should not remain \"second class\" institutions. It was in this context that successive governments established contact with the World Bank and, from 1978 to 1984, about nineteen different missions visited Portugal. A final statement was based on two main principles:\nAlthough the final report welcomed the expansion of higher education, correcting the prior situation of unequal and limited access, the World Bank did not favour further expansion: \"...the enrolment represents 8% of the 18–22 age group and could be considered adequate. ...In view of the rapidly increased university enrolments, which represent an uneconomical drain in the economy...[the Bank recommends a] gradual introduction of quantitative restraints\" (World Bank, 1977 Progress report). At the same time, the World Bank urged the Portuguese authorities to restrain enrolment quotas so as to make \"better use\" and rationalise the supply of higher education and improve the management of the system, namely in terms of accountability, coordination, and efficiency. Future expansions should be planned, taking into account manpower needs, and demographic and enrolment trends. Subsequently, the World Bank produced two \"Staff Appraisal Reports\", which provided insights about the negotiations between the Bank's Mission and the Portuguese government, and further confirmed the Bank's priorities. In the first Report of Assessment (No. 1807-PO, 1978), the Bank insisted on three criteria: balancing the supply of higher education graduates with the economic needs of the country, developing a persistent and consistent policy towards vocational education, and upgrading teacher training programs. The Bank suggested that Portugal needed not only to train high level technicians but also middle level personnel (on a yearly basis: 1400 technicians with short cycle post-secondary education, 500 agricultural technicians and 6000 middle level managers). Subsequently, the government passed Decree-Law 397/77 of 17 September, which established a numerus clausus for every university study programme and eliminated the threat to the new short vocational education programs – that without reducing the supply of engineering jobs, graduates of the technician training institutes would find employment too scarce. The World Bank was critical of the erratic policies toward the existing technical institutes, and of the excessive enrolment in university engineering programs and the lax approach on managing vacancy quotas, and raised the issue of diseconomies of scale in the system, suggesting that there were too many institutions with small dimensions. The government replied to the Bank’s demands with Decree-Law 513-T/79, which established a network of polytechnic institutes, including Higher Schools of Education. The main objectives of Polytechnic education were: to provide education with an applied and technical emphasis and strong vocational orientation, and for training intermediate-level technicians for industries, service companies and educational units (first cycle of basic education).\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, a network of polytechnic institutes replaced short-cycle technical training with polytechnic higher education. This network include the Higher Schools of Education (\"Escolas Superiores de Educação\") They were opened in many cities as confederations of \"Escolas Superiores\" and \"Institutos Superiores\" providing short-cycle \"bacharelato\" degrees (in education, music, engineering, management, agriculture, and other areas), many of which lacked a solid and realistic strategy. Between 1979 and 1986, a few were almost immediately upgraded to create new universities, like the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, the University of Beira Interior, or the University of the Algarve. Some of those first polytechnics were transformed into University Institutes so that they would not remain \"second class\" institutions, and a few years later were upgraded to full chartered universities. The polytechnic institutes, heirs of a large network of reputable but discontinued intermediate schools with traditions in technical and vocational education, which also incorporated other older institutions formerly known as industrial institutes (see \"Instituto Industrial de Lisboa\", \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa\" and \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto\"), were originally created to produce skilled intermediate technicians in specific areas. The short-cycle polytechnical degrees were mainly aimed at training of intermediate technicians for industry and commerce but also for basic health and education, instead of academicians (like biologists, chemists, economists, geographers, historians, lawyers, mathematicians, philosophers, physicians, physicists, et al.), engineers, lecturers, researchers and scientists that were already produced by Portuguese universities. In 1974, the Industrial and Commercial Institutes of vocational education were transformed into higher learning Superior Institutes of Engineering and Accounting and Administration and initially integrated in the university subsector; although originally exclusively focused on providing short-cycle degrees, the need for a stronger polytechnic sector, and these schools' history and purpose, led them to be integrated in the polytechnic subsector in the late 1980s (Administrative Rule 389/88 of 25 October 1988 - \"Decreto-Lei n.º 389/88, de 25 de Outubro\"). However, in the following decades the polytechnic institutions didn't assume their specific role as tertiary education vocational schools, which were created to award practical diplomas in more technical or basic fields. Non-university intermediate professionals and skilled workers for the industry, agriculture, commerce and other services where needed. As more new public university institutions were founded or expanded, polytechnics didn't feel comfortable with their subaltern status in the Portuguese higher education system and a desire to be upgraded into university-like institutions grew among the polytechnic institutions' administrations. This desire of emancipation and evolution from polytechnic status to university status, was not followed by better qualified teaching staff, better facilities for teaching or researching, or by a stronger curricula with a more selective admission criteria, comparable with those enforced by almost all public university institutions. Criteria ambiguity and the general lower standards in polytechnic higher education and admission, were fiercely criticised by education personalities like university rectors, regarding issues like the lack of admission exams in mathematics for polytechnic engineering applicants, and the proliferation of administration and management courses everywhere, many without a proper curriculum in mathematics, statistics and economics-related disciplines.\n\nAfter its creation in the late 1970s, polytechnic institutions used to offer a 3-year course (the engineering superior institutes created in 1974, awarded 4-year \"bacharelato\" degrees before have been integrated into the polytechnic sector in 1988), awarding a \"bacharelato\" degree (lower than a bachelor's degree) instead of a university \"licenciatura\" (licentiate) degree which was four to six years. The Portuguese \"licenciatura\" was a longer undergraduate degree, which included a licensure for working in a particular profession and an accreditation by the respective professional orders - \"ordens profissionais\". The \"licenciatura\" diploma was also required for those applicants who wished to undertake masters and doctorate programs.\n\nThe publication of Administrative Rule 645/88 of 21 September 1988 authorised polytechnic schools to teach two-year courses of specialised higher education (CESE - \"Curso de Estudos Superiores Especializados\") within the fields already taught at the school. This system guaranteed a prominent independence between the two levels (bachelor's and CESE) since it was not compulsory to maintain a coherence of subjects. The diploma of specialised higher education (DESE - \"Diploma de Estudos Superiores Especializados\") thus emerged much more as a post-graduate diploma than a complementary education to the bachelor student who wanted a licentiate degree. Changing the structure of the CESE into two-stage degrees obtained in two levels known as \"licenciatura bietápica\" (bachelor's and licentiate, in which access to the second level is granted immediately after completing the first), as consigned in Administrative Rule 413A/98 of 17 July 1998, removed the formal differences between the university \"licenciatura\" and the new two-stage polytechnic \"licenciatura\" (\"licenciatura bietápica\").\n\nBy the government decree of July 1998 the polytechnics started to offer a two-stage curriculum (the first three years conferring a \"bacharelato\" degree, the following two years a \"licenciatura bietápica\" degree); both are undergraduate degrees, but the universities were offering a single licentiate degree (\"licenciatura\") of four to five years. This was changed with the Bologna process with a new system of three years for a bachelor's degree (\"licenciatura\"). Two additional years grant a master's degree (\"mestrado\") which is conferred by the polytechnic institute under protocols with a partner university or alone when the polytechnic institution is in full compliance with the necessary requirements (proper research activity, doctoral teaching staff, and budget). The doctoral degree (\"doutoramento\") is conferred only by the universities, as it always has been. By the time of the implementation of the Bologna Process (2006) in Portuguese higher education, 9.5% of the state-run polytechnic teaching staff had a doctorate degree in 2005 - 15% in 2007 after the Bologna Process.\n\nThe Lisbon Superior Institute of Engineering (ISEL, one of the colleges resulting from the former Lisbon Institute of Industry, today part of the Polytechnical Institute of Lisbon), with the support of the University of Lisbon (UL), approved in 2005 the express will to reintegrate the university subsector as part of the University of Lisbon which do not have a Faculty of Engineering and through the assimilation and reorganization of ISEL could transform that polytechnic engineering school to a new university engineering school inside UL. For ISEL itself, this change could represent an emancipation from the limited polytechnic system, which has been regarded as a minor higher education subsystem in Portugal (although by the mid-2000s with many upgrades and the Bologna process, the formal differences are less notorious), due to limitations that were imposed by State Education Laws on polytechnics (such as the professor's career, the professor's wages, the State funds spending and the teaching competences of the polytechnics). The Porto Superior Institute of Engineering (ISEP) was never merged into the University of Porto (or one of its predecessor schools, the Polytechnic Academy). The original proposal was dropped, partially because the University of Porto has owned its own engineering school since 1911 - the \"Faculdade de Engenharia da Universidade do Porto\", known as \"Faculdade de Engenharia\" since 1926, unlike the University of Lisbon.\n\nNursing and health technologies technicians (technicians in clinical analysis, radiology, audiology, nuclear medicine and other technical fields in health) are also polytechnic higher education courses offered by nursing schools and schools of health technologies which are grouped into polytechnic institutes, and, in some cases, into universities (remaining in each of those situations as autonomous schools belonging to the polytechnic subsector). The nursing schools were legally defined as comparable to polytechnic institutions in 1988 (Administrative Rule 480/88 of 23 December 1988 - \"Decreto Lei n.º 480/88, de 23 de Dezembro\"), and started to provide higher education degrees in nursing in 1990 (Rule 821/89 of 15 September 1990 - \"Portaria n.º 821/89, de 15 de Setembro\"). Before 1990 nursing schools were not academic-degree-conferring institutions, and did not belong to the higher educational system. In 1995 they were fully integrated into the polytechnic subsystem (Administrative Rule 205/95 of 5 August 1995 - \"Decreto Lei n.º 205/95, de 5 de Agosto\"), and in 1999 the new courses in nursing were approved, conferring a \"licenciatura\" diploma (Administrative Rule 353/99 of 8 September 1999 - \"Decreto Lei n.º 353/99, de 8 de Setembro\").\n\nBetween 1918 and 1974, some older schools that are today integrated into the polytechnic subsector were industrial and commercial schools of vocational education, as well as intermediate schools for primary-education-teacher training, schools of agriculture, or nursing schools. Current establishments for polytechnic studies in engineering such as the \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa\", \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto\", \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Coimbra\", the nursing schools, and the current polytechnic schools of education \"(Escolas Superiores de Educação)\" during that period had no relation with higher education, and were known by other names. Admission to these schools was open to people with no complete secondary education, with universities reserved for secondary school graduates. For decades, these vocational schools of intermediate education (known as \"ensino médio\") did not have the higher education status or credentials they have now. However, the majority of current polytechnical institutes was fully created in the 1980s and 1990s. It must be remembered that the \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa\" and the \"Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto\", both born from the earlier industrial institutes (\"Instituto Industrial\"), were higher education degree-conferring institutions in engineering during a short period before 1919, and were known by other institutional names in their long histories.\n\nHowever, in the 1990s and 2000s, a fast growth and proliferation of and state-run polytechnical institutions with lower educational standards and ambiguous academic integrity, was responsible for unnecessary and uneconomic allocation of resources with no adequate quality output in terms of both new highly qualified graduates and research.\nWhile across the world polytechnics have transformed themselves into full universities, in Portugal, with the lowest higher education levels in Europe, continues to segregate the sectors based on the world bank model of the 50's and 60's.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the former Polytechnical Institute of Faro, in the Algarve region, southern Portugal, was incorporated into the University of the Algarve, but as a totally independent institution in terms of staff, curricula and competences, remaining a full public polytechnic institution within a larger and independent public university but completely separated (economies of differentiation maybe?). The former and short-lived Polytechnical Institute of Vila Real, in northern Portugal, was closed and then reformed, having been reorganized into a university in the 1980s - the University of Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro. The University of Beira Interior in Covilhã was founded in 1979 after the closing of a former (also short-lived) polytechnic institute - the PIC - Polytechnic Institute of Covilhã (\"Instituto Politécnico da Covilhã\") (1973–1979). A remarkable level of achievements and a successful political lobbying, allowed PIC in 1979 to be promoted by the Portuguese Ministry of Education to a higher institutional level, university institute. Seven years later, in 1986, the University Institute of Beira Interior was granted full university status, becoming the current University of Beira Interior.\n\nBased on a research study (\"Preferências dos estudantes\", co-authored by Diana Amado Tavares, from \"CIPS - Centro de Investigação de Políticas do Ensino Superior\" (Centre For Research In Higher Education Policies), among others), the Portuguese newspaper Diário de Notícias reported on 2 April 2007, that according to the study, pre-higher education students from families with a higher educational and cultural background have a 10 times higher probability of becoming higher education students than the others. And among all higher education students, the family economic and cultural background are decisive on the type of course a student can attain in the higher education system.\n\nAccording to the study, using as an example medicine, it shows that 73,2% of the 2003/2004 medicine freshman admitted to Portuguese universities have graduated parents. On the other side, 73% of nursing and health technician students (polytechnic courses), have parents without higher education.\n\nThe study shows a relation between parental very low educational levels and the students' options in higher education, where 39% of basic education teacher students, and 20% of management students, have parents with 4 years of study or less, the 4th grade (\"4ª classe\"). On the other side, law, natural sciences and related fields (particularly medicine), and fine arts, are preferred courses of students from families with higher educational and cultural backgrounds.\n\nThe study reports that about 42,000 unemployed people registered in the employment centers and seeking for a job have a higher education academic degree, with the fields of teaching and education accounting for 32% of those unemployed people, and art and humanities accounting for 12%.\n\nThe study also concludes that the higher is the financial and educational background of a family, more evident is the student preference of applying to university institutions, and the lower is the number of students desiring to apply to polytechnic institutions.\n\nThe study was also expected to be published in the European Journal of Higher Education.\n\nAnother study made by the University of Lisbon for its own students in the period 2003–2008, concluded that popular selective courses with restricted \"numerus clausus\" and demanding high grades to the new applicants (examples include the university degrees of medicine, fine arts, and pharmacy), are mainly attained by students arrived from a wealthier background than that of those students enrolled at unpopular and less selective degree programmes and departments.\n\nAfter the Bologna process implementation in the late 2000s, although most state-run higher education student costs are supported with public money, the increasing tuition fees a student has to pay to attend the a public college or university and the attraction of new types of mature students (enrolled as part-time or evening class students) like employees, businessmen, parents, and pensioners, many departments make a substantial profit from every additional student enrolled in courses, with benefits for the college or university's gross tuition revenue and without loss of educational quality (teacher per student, computer per student, classroom size per student, etc.).\n\nThe Bologna Process was a European reform process aimed at establishing a European Higher Education Area by 2010. It was an unusual process in that it was loosely structured and driven by the 45 countries participating in it in cooperation with a number of international organisations, including the Council of Europe.\n\nThe broad objectives of the Bologna Process are to remove the obstacles to student mobility across Europe; to enhance the attractiveness of European higher education worldwide; to establish a common structure of higher education systems across Europe, and for this common structure to be based on two main cycles: undergraduate (1st cycle of study) and graduate (2nd cycle of study).\n\nIn its drive to improve the quality of higher education and, in turn, human resources across Europe, the Bologna Process play a key role in contributing to the EU's Lisbon Strategy goals which aim to deliver stronger, lasting growth and to create more and better jobs.\n\nThe reform aim was to create a higher education system in Europe, organised in such a way that:\n\n\nPortugal, like other European States, has conducted educational policies and reforms to accomplish these objectives. This included the reorganization of both university and polytechnic subsystems and the implementation of extensive legal and curricular changes and the adoption of innovative teaching methods. Its field application process was mostly visible in 2006 and 2007.\n\nThis reform was elaborated in order to attain an education system based on the development of competences rather than on the transmission of knowledge, and included the development of a system of easily readable and comparable degrees aimed to simplify comparison between qualifications across Europe. The flexibility and transparency enabled students to have their qualifications recognised more widely, facilitating freedom of movement around a more transparent EHEA (European Higher Education Area). This was aided by the establishment of a system of credits in the form of the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS) and the adoption of the Diploma Supplement by all countries involved. One academic year corresponds to 60 ECTS-credits that are equivalent to 1500–1800 hours of study. The new model comes closer to the North American and Japanese systems. It gives greater weight to practical training, intensive research projects and the way credits are measured reflects how hard a student has worked. The new evaluation methods reflect not only a student's performance on exams, but also his or her lab experiments, presentations, hours spent on study, innovation capacities and so forth.\n\nThe European higher education area adopted a system based on three cycles of study, at bachelor, master and doctorate's level, that is:\n\n\n\n\nSchools that adhered to the Bologna process (since 2006–2007) maintained the degree names but their significance changed. In ascending order of importance:\n\n\"Bacharelato\" The Portuguese \"bacharelato\" degree awarded by polytechnical institutions or its predecessors, was a Bachelor degree (but not an honours degree, only the then \"licenciatura\" degree was equal to an honours degree) - title: \"Bacharel\" or \"Engenheiro Técnico\" for engineering technologists - abbreviation: none or \"Bach.\"\n\n\"Licenciatura\" (Academic License) - title: \"Licenciado\" (popular: \"Dr\" or \"Engenheiro\" for a License in engineering) - abbreviation used in front of holder's name: \"Lic.\" (popular: \"Dr\". or \"Eng.\" for Engineer, used extensively (formal and colloquially))\n\n\"Pós-Graduação\" or \"Especialização \" (Postgraduate degree) - no specific title\n\n\"Mestrado\" (Master's degree) - title: \"Mestre\"\n\n\"Doutorado\" (Doctorate) - used in front of holder's name: \"Doutor\"\n\n\"Agregação\" (Agrégation) - used in front of holder's name: \"Professor Doutor\"\n\nThe \"Agência de Avaliação e Acreditação do Ensino Superior\" (Higher Education Accreditation and Evaluation Agency) was created in the late 2000s and started to work in the early 2010s. In 2012, its first thorough accreditation and evaluation report concluded that 25% (or 107) of 420 (out of 3500) bachelor's, master's and doctorate degree programs offered in Portugal, did not comply with elemental quality and academic integrity standards and should be terminated. Besides the state-run accreditation agency, many professional associations of some of the regulated professions have run their own accreditation systems - they are known as \"Ordens\" (these include several \"Ordens\", some much larger, reputed and older than others, like the \"Ordem dos Engenheiros\"; \"Ordem dos Advogados\"; \"Ordem dos Farmacêuticos\"; \"Ordem dos Enfermeiros\"; \"Ordem dos Arquitectos\"; \"Ordem dos Médicos\"; \"Ordem dos Biólogos\"; \"Ordem dos Economistas\"; \"Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas\"; etc.). In general, registration with such associations is a requisite for the legal practice of the profession and it normally requires an admission examination. In some orders (e.g. \"Ordem dos Engenheiros\" for the exercise of engineering profession), the accreditation process exemptes candidates, possessing an accredited degree, of such examination. But some orders, as well as some other professional associations, only allow candidates possessing an accredited course to be admitted to examination but do not exempt them from this examination due to the large number of institutions offering degrees in the concerned field with very different teaching standards and curricula (e.g. \"Ordem dos Advogados\" for lawyers and the \"Ordem dos Técnicos Oficiais de Contas\" for accountants).\n\nDuring many years (at least during most of the 20th century to the 2000s), a graduate in Portugal used to have a compulsory 4 to 5-year course (an exception included medicine, with a 6 years course) known as \"licenciatura\" which was granted exclusively by universities. Only graduates having the \"licenciatura\" diploma exclusively conferred by the universities were fully able to develop professional activity in their respective field (like engineering, or secondary school teaching) and were universally recognized and regulated by its \"Ordem\" (the highest professional association authority) and/or the State. Other higher education courses offering a 3-year \"bacharelato\" degree that the newly created polytechnic institutes started to award in the 1970s and 1980s, like the technical engineering courses, the accounting technician courses, or the basic education teaching courses, had its own regulation scheme and were not recognized by the respective \"Ordens Profissionais\" in the field or by the State to perform the same professional activities university's \"licenciados\" were habilitated for (for instance, technical engineers did not belong to the \"Ordem\" of engineers and were awarded a limited range of engineering projects, and most teachers with the polytechnic degrees were not able to teach school students after the 6th grade). In 1999, over 15,000 students enrolled in Portuguese higher learning institutions and newly graduates in the fields of engineering and architecture, were enrolled or were awarded a degree in a non-accredited course. Those students and graduates with no official recognition were not admitted to any \"Ordem\" and were unable to sign projects in their presumed field of expertise. At the same time, only one accredited engineering course was offered by a private university, and over 90% of the accredited courses with recognition in the fields of engineering, architecture, and law were provided by state-run universities. The \"Agência de Avaliação e Acreditação do Ensino Superior (A3ES)\" (Higher Education Accreditation and Evaluation Agency) was created in the late 2000s and started to work in the early 2010s. In 2012, its first thorough accreditation and evaluation report to date concluded that 25% (or 107) of 420 (out of 3500) bachelor's, master's and doctorate degree programs offered in Portugal, did not comply with elemental quality and academic integrity standards and should be terminated. In the 1990s, the offer of many new degrees in Portugal became widespread across the entire country through both public and private university and polytechnic institutions. By 2010, lower selectiviness and academic integrity levels, including in some schools previously known for its reputation and prestige, debased the average teaching level in Portugal according to the head of the Portuguese Bar Association \"(Ordem dos Advogados)\" Marinho Pinto.\n\nCurrently, after many major reforms and changes in higher education started in 1998 which originated a process that spans across the 2000s, the formal differences between polytechnic and university \"licenciatura\" degrees are in general null and they have an equivalent denomination and course duration, and due to the Bologna process both graduates should be recognized equally all across Europe. Among the oldest recognized and most extensively accredited courses in Portugal, are those university degrees awarded by the state-run universities. After the large 1998 - 2000s reforms and upgrades, many polytechnic \"licenciatura\" degrees started to be offered by the largest state-run polytechnic institutes, like those in the cities of Lisbon and Porto, have been awarded in the same way with wide official recognition by the concerned \"Ordens Profissionais\" and the State.\n\nAdmission to higher education level studies requires either a secondary school credential, \"Diploma de Ensino Secundário\", given after twelve study years, allowing the student to be examined through the \"Provas de ingresso\" (admission exams), or an extraordinary exam process available to anyone aged 23 or older.\n\nEvery higher education institution has also a number of other extraordinary admission processes for sportsmen, international students, foreign students from the Lusosphere, degree owners from other institutions, students from other institutions (academic transfer), former students (readmission), which are subject to specific standards and regulations set by each institution or course department.\n\nStudents must have studied the subjects for which they are entering to be prepared for the entrance exams, but they are not required to have previously specialised in any specific area at the secondary school. Students sit for one or more entrance exams, \"Concurso nacional\" for public institutions or \"Concurso institucional\" for private institutions. In addition to passing entrance exams, students must fulfill particular prerequisites for some courses.\n\nEnrollment is limited; each year the institution establishes the number of places available (\"numerus clausus\"). The exam scores count for the final evaluation, which includes the secondary school average marks. Then the students have to choose six institutions/courses they prefer to attend, in preferential order. The ones who reach the marks needed to attend the desired institution/course, given the number of vacancies, will be admitted. This means that the students could not be admitted at its first or second choice, but be admitted at the third or even sixth choice. In some cases, those entering polytechnic institutes with previous vocational training will receive institutional preference.\n\nPortuguese ordinary admissions are based in a competitive system of \"numerus clausus\", different programmes have different exams needed for admission which may vary from one institution to another.\n\n2008 table of new alumni by institution in state-run universities and polytechnics, excluding international students and extraordinary admissions.\n\nAfter the approval of decree law \"Decreto-Lei 64/2006, de 21 de Março\" in 2006, even without a complete secondary school education, anyone 23 or older can apply to state-run higher learning institution through the \"Exame Extraordinário de Avaliação de Capacidade para Acesso ao Ensino Superior\" (extraordinary exam to assess the capacity to enter higher-level studies), also called the \"Ad-Hoc\" exam. Over 23 years old applicants are considered mature applicants and may be admitted without meeting the\nENES examination requirement. In these cases, application is considered on the basis of one's educational background and work and life experience will be fully taken into account, as well as an interview.\nThe process consists of the general Portuguese exam, an interview to evaluate motivation and CV, and additional written and/or oral exams specific to each school and course.\nCandidates approved go through a separate \"numerus clausus\" or enroll directly at the discretion of the school's board. As what happens with the \"Concurso Nacional\" through the Exames Nacionais do Ensino Secundário (ENES), the Extraordinary Exam Process for over-23 years old candidates is more demanding and has a much higher selectiveness in public universities than in the public polytechnics. Humanities and other non-mathematical-intensive fields have also much higher admission rates than classical university engineerings, economics or medicine. This implies that almost all new students admitted by this extraordinary process enter a polytechnic institution, private institution, or humanities programmes.\n\nMost public university courses often demand much higher admission marks than most similar courses at the polytechnic institutes or private institutions. This has been a major statistical fact among the higher education subsystems in Portugal. However, it is not possible today to characterize precisely a course's quality level by its higher education subsystem (polytechnic or university) because some polytechnical courses demand high grades and have a better reputation and popularity than in the past, after many years of reforms and reorganization in the polytechnical subsystem. But in general, the majority of the most highly regarded degrees, noted for their selectiveness and popularity, are provided by some institutions of the university system, with many of the polytechnic system's institutions being often regarded as a second choice alternative to the major universities for a number of students. There was a historic connotation that polytechnical institutes were often considered the schools of last resort, because of their general low selectiveness (which was clearly substandard from the 1980s to the mid-2000s), lack of historical notability, and diminute number of highly distinguished alumni and professors, which some feel hurts their reputation. In parallel with the Bologna reform, two major regulatory initiatives have been implemented from the academic year 2005/06, namely: access rules have enforced minimum grades of 95/200 in the national access examinations for all candidates in every sector of higher education; and a minimum number of 10 students per degree programme has been required for public funding, with this limit to increase to 20 students in 2006/07. The measures provoked great alarm and concern among the polytechnical institutions who criticised the more rigorous requirements as \"bad and elitist\". However, specific field entrance exams that are required for admission to many institutions are notorious for their inconsistencies, with courses which for instance may traditionally require mathematics, physics or chemistry entrance exams, allowing non-related entrance exams to catch a large number of underachieving applicants who otherwise would not be admitted, and do not have a place at more selective institutions in the same field. For the other side, higher grades inside the higher education institutions were more frequent for those students of private, public polytechnic and some public university courses that were globally the worst pre-higher education applicants. This implied a long-lasting reputation of lower teaching standards and easier entrance requirements in many public polytechnic and private institutions, as well as in some public university departments, which seemed rather relaxed. A number of scandals, suspicions and affairs involving private higher education institutions (for example, major private universities like \"Universidade Moderna\" (1998), \"Universidade Independente\" (2007) and \"Universidade Internacional\" (2007), among others), and a general perception of many of those institutions as having a tendentially relaxed teaching style with less rigorous criteria, have contributed to their poor reputation which originated a state-run inspection of private higher education institutions in 2007. Many institutions did not provide degree programs of academic integrity comparable to those of traditional universities. Like in any other country in the world, this appears to be an injustice for thousands of others students admitted to more rigorous and selective institutions that will face the same competition in the labour market, where the graduation marks are often decisive. This has allowed other inequalities such as the future impossibility of obtaining a masters or doctoral degree for students with lower marks (usually less than 14, out of 20 for master's degree, or 16 out of 20 for doctorate), and the higher average completion time for graduation and subsequent entrance into the labour market, with different standards in so many heterogeneous institutions.\n\nIn the 2000s, there was a growing effort to define nonaccredited universities or accredited institutions which awarded nonaccredited degrees, as diploma mills, in order to raise awareness about the problem. In 2007, the State had planned to enforce in a near future more stringent rules for all kind of public and private degree-conferring institutions. Currently, after changes introduced by the Bologna process, master's degree programmes can be offered to any student who had completed the first study cycle (\"licenciatura\") and enroll in the second study cycle (\"mestrado\").\n\nFor instance, medicine is traditionally one of the most popular courses in Portugal, and therefore one of the most selective, with some of the highest rated secondary school top students competing with the best of the best for a place in a medicine course. Normally, a student who wants to attend the Medical School (\"Faculdade de Medicina\") at one of the Portuguese public universities which exclusively offer this graduation course, has to get very high grades in the entrance exams (it may include exams in fields like chemistry, biology, and mathematics) and to have done an almost-brilliant secondary school course. Admission marks of the applicants admitted in medicine, are never less than 180 out of 200. Architecture, economics, a number of engineerings, dentistry, law, pharmacy, or veterinary medicine at most public universities, are, in general, another examples of courses which are traditionally the most selective or popular. In contrast with these, like in any other educational system in the world, there are many courses offered by private universities, polytechnic institutes, and public universities, where the entrance requirements are sharply below the average. There are also some courses with low or even no demand and condemned to be extinguished.\n\nIn the 1990s, the offer of law degrees in Portugal became widespread across the entire country through both public and private university institutions. By 2010, lower selectiviness and academic integrity levels, including in law schools previously known for its reputation and prestige, debased the average teaching of law in Portugal according to the head of the Ordem dos Advogados Marinho Pinto.\n\nIn Portugal, about 15% of the people with a degree are unemployed, and a larger proportion are underemployed. In 2008, the number of degree owners registered in the national network of job centers reached 60,000 (a registered graduate unemployment rate of nearly 8%).\n\nAfter students graduate from a higher education institution, factors like the field of studies, the grade point average and the prestige of the teaching institution, are relatively important for getting a job. But most important is the current employment market.\n\nDue to these factors, higher education courses with a higher employability rate include medicine (there is a very high demand for medical doctors across the whole country), some classic engineering specializations, and computer sciences.\n\nLow employability is found among teaching, humanities and some social sciences fields of study, like history, geography, linguistics, philosophy, sociology; or to a lesser degree among the exact sciences and natural sciences, such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology or geology, when these courses are oriented towards a teaching career instead of a more technical or scientific research career.\n\nDespite their generally high reputation, economics, law and architecture degrees, even from some of the most selective and prestigious schools, have had an increasingly low employability rate due to an excessive number of new graduates each year.\n\nThere are courses which used to have high or very high employability rates (at least during the 1990s) and currently are among the most precarious in terms of employment for new graduates. These include business administration, management, nursing and some health technician courses. The reduction of (a traditionally high) State expenditure allocated to job creation inside the public sector of the Portuguese economy since 2002–2003, in addition to the boom of the number of places offered to new students in those fields by an increasing number of private and public teaching institutions, disrupted supply and demand equilibrium.\n\nHigher wages and better job conditions are usually offered by companies to the best fresh graduates of a number of highly reputed universities. Most Portuguese civil servants usually have better-than-average pay and benefits regardless of their personal educational quality.\n\nAn article was published by the Expresso dated 2004 which listed the most desirable graduates of universities and polytechnics by Portuguese companies in the fields of engineering, structural engineering, marketing, management, economics and finance. This non-scientific report used a survey made by some human resources recruiting firms, which means that the population surveyed comprised only the candidates who were seeking a job through those recruiting firms, and excluded the highly qualified candidates who were recruited directly by the companies, by other important recruiting firms, or were recruited by headhunters before graduation. Additionally, some graduates are recruited from local higher learning institutions through partnerships with local companies or other institutions, bypassing full and open competition.\n\nWorld Bank research on human capital flight by country, reported in 2005 a rate of 20% of Portuguese graduates leaving the country for working abroad, one of the largest rates for countries with over 5 million inhabitants.\n\nUnderemployment among fresh and senior graduates has increased since the early 1990s. Among the degree owners with the highest rates of underemployment are those who earned degrees in teaching, psychology, philosophy, economics, business administration, management, technical accounting, sociology, short-cycle engineering (technical engineering), some non-traditional engineerings, law, journalism, languages, history, and related fields of study. Several thousand people in this situation, have part-time or full-time occupations in a range of unspecialized jobs for unskilled or marginally skilled workers.\n\nThe results and rankings of multi-criteria evaluation on higher education institutions may be controversial and are not definitive proof of the higher standard of one institution over the others. However, ranking-based evaluation could be useful to point out certain characteristics or trends of a given institution, like notability and growth, both nationwide and internationally.\n\nThe Portuguese \"Agência de Acreditação\" (state-managed Accreditation Agency) for higher education, and formally founded in 2007, will be responsible for the publication of the national ranking of higher education institutions and degrees.\n\nIn 2007, according to The Times Higher Education Supplement (2007 QS World University Rankings, by QS - Quacquarelli Symonds), the University of Coimbra is ranked number 3 among the universities in the Portuguese-speaking countries (behind the University of São Paulo and the University of Campinas), and ranked 318 in the overall world rank. In 2006, according to The Times Higher Education Supplement (2006 QS World University Rankings, by QS - Quacquarelli Symonds), the University of Coimbra is ranked number 1 university in the Portuguese-speaking countries, and ranked 266 in the overall world rank.\n\nIn 2008, a Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan's ranking placed the University of Porto in the first position among the Portuguese universities by research output. The \"Ranking Iberoamericano de Instituciones de Investigación\" have placed the University of Porto in the 11th place by research output in Iberoamerican countries (Portugal, Spain, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela), and first in Portugal. In 2007, a Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan's ranking, placed the University of Porto in 459. It was the only Portuguese university in the top 500 according to the Taiwanese ranking.\n\nPortuguese higher education institutions webometrics ranking, 2015 - Top 20 ranked according to indicators measuring web presence and impact.\n\nAcademic research in 2003 represented about 50% of total expenditure in R&D (including expenditure by higher education and related non-profit institutions). Total expenditure (public and private) in R&D was 0.78% of the GDP, which had reached 0.85% in 2001, when the European average was 1.98% for the then-15 EU member-states. Overall, higher education and related non-profit institutions represented in 2003 about 74% of Portuguese researchers, with a total value of 24.726 researchers (i.e., head counts), representing 13.008 FTE researchers. In December 2004, higher education institutions included 11.316 teaching-staff members holding a PhD degree.\n\nIn 2001 Portugal was, for the first time in history, one of the countries of excellence that contributed to the top 1% of the world's highly cited publications. Spain was responsible for 2.08%, while Ireland and Greece accounted for 0.36% and 0.3%, respectively.\n\nWithin the higher education system, only university institutions carry out fundamental research.\n\n\nSource: \"FCT - Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia\" \n\nInternational partnership programmes and international conventions or agreements in higher education include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2238418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2238418", "title": "Indian Statistical Institute", "text": "Indian Statistical Institute\n\nIndian Statistical Institute (ISI) is an academic institute of national importance as recognised by a 1959 act of the Indian parliament. It grew out of the Statistical Laboratory set up by Prasanta Chandra Mahalanobis in Presidency College, Kolkata. Established in 1931, this public university of India is one of the oldest and most prestigious institutions focused on statistics, and its early reputation led it to being adopted as a model for the first US institute of Statistics set up at the Research Triangle, North Carolina by Gertrude Mary Cox.\n\nMahalanobis, the founder of ISI, was deeply influenced by wisdom and guidance of Rabindranath Tagore and Brajendranath Seal. Under his leadership, the institute initiated and promoted the interaction of Statistics with natural and social sciences to advance the role of Statistics as a key technology by explicating the twin aspectsits general applicability and its dependence on other disciplines for its own development. The institute is now considered as one of the foremost centres in the world for training and research in Computer science, Statistics, Quantitative Economics and related sciences.\n\nISI has its headquarters in Baranagar, Kolkata, West Bengal. It has four subsidiary centres focused in academics at Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai and Tezpur, and a branch at Giridih. In addition, the Institute has a network of units of Statistical Quality Control and Operations Research at Vadodara, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Pune engaged in guiding the industries, within and outside India, in developing the most up–to–date quality management systems and solving critical problems of quality, reliability and productivity.\n\nPrimary activities of ISI are research and training of Statistics, development of theoretical Statistics and its applications in various natural and social sciences. Originally affiliated with the University of Calcutta, the institute was declared an institute of national importance in 1959, through an act of Indian parliament, Indian Statistical Institute act, 1959. ISI functions under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) of the Government of India.\n\nKey areas of expertise of ISI are Computer science, Statistics, Mathematics, Mathematical economics, Operations Research and Information Science and it is one of the few research oriented Indian schools offering courses at both the undergraduate and graduate level.\n\nISI's origin can be traced back to the Statistical Laboratory in Presidency College, Kolkata set up by Mahalanobis, who worked in the Physics Department of the college in the 1920s. During 1913–15, he did his Tripos in Mathematics and Physics at University of Cambridge, where he came across \"Biometrika\", a journal of Statistics founded by Karl Pearson. Since 1915, he taught Physics at Presidency College, but his interest in Statistics grew under the guidance of polymath Brajendranath Seal. Many colleagues of Mahalanobis took an interest in Statistics and the group grew in the Statistical Laboratory. Considering the extensive application of Statistics in solving various problems in real life such as analyzing multivariate anthropometric data, applying sample surveys as a method of data collection, analyzing meteorological data, estimating crop yield etc., this group, particularly, Mahalanobis and his younger colleagues S. S. Bose and H. C. Sinha felt the necessity of forming a specialized institute to facilitate research and learning of Statistics.\n\nOn 17 December 1931, Mahalonobis held a meeting with Pramatha Nath Banerji (Minto Professor of Economics), Nikhil Ranjan Sen (Khaira Professor of Applied Mathematics) and Sir R. N. Mukherji. This meeting led to the establishment of the Indian Statistical Institute (ISI), which was formally registered on 28 April 1932, as a non-profit distributing learned society under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860. Later, the institute was registered under the West Bengal Societies Registration Act XXVI of 1961 amended in 1964. Mukherjee accepted the role of the president of ISI and held this position until his death in 1936. In 1953, ISI was relocated to a property owned by Professor Mahalanobis, named \"Amrapali\", in Baranagar, which is now a municipality at the northern outskirts of Kolkata.\n\nIn 1931, Mahalanobis was the only person working at ISI, and he managed it with an annual expenditure of Rs.250. It gradually grew with the pioneering work of a group of his colleagues including S. S. Bose, Samarendra Kumar Mitra (Head of the Computing Machines and Electronics Laboratory and designer of India's first computer), J. M. Sengupta, Raj Chandra Bose, Samarendra Nath Roy, K. R. Nair, R. R. Bahadur, Gopinath Kallianpur, D. B. Lahiri, and Anil Kumar Gain. Pitamber Pant, who had received training in Statistics at the institute, went on to become a secretary to the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, and was a great source of help and support to the institute.\n\nThe institute started a training section in 1938. In due course, many of the early workers left the ISI for careers in the USA or for positions in public/private sector in India. By the 1940s, the ISI was internationally known and was taken as a model when the first institute of Statistics was set up in the United States by Gertrude Coxperhaps the only time an institute in a developing country was used as a model in a developed country.\n\nAs asked by the Government of India, in 1950, ISI designed and planned a comprehensive socio–economic national sample survey covering rural India. The organisation named National Sample Survey (NSS) was founded in 1950 for conducting this survey. The field work was performed by the Directorate of NSS, functioning under the Ministry of Finance, whereas the other tasks such as planning of the survey, training of field workers, review, data processing and tabulation were executed by ISI. In 1961, the Directorate of NSS started functioning under the Department of Statistics of Government of India, and later in 1971, the design and analysis wing of NSS was shifted from ISI to the Department of Statistics forming the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO).\n\nJ. B. S. Haldane joined the ISI as a research professor from August 1957, and stayed on until February 1961, when he had a falling out with ISI Director P.C. Mahalanobis over Haldane's going on a much-publicized hunger strike to protest the United States pressuring U.S. National Science Fair winners Gary Botting and Susan Brown from attending an ISI banquet to which many prominent Indian scientists had been invited. Haldane helped the ISI grow in biometrics. Haldane also played a key role in developing the structure and content of the courses offered by ISI.\n\nUntil 1959, ISI was associated with the University of Calcutta. By 'The Indian Statistical Institute Act 1959' of the Parliament of India, amended in 1995, ISI was declared an institute of national importance, and was authorised to hold examinations and to grant degrees and diplomas in Statistics, Mathematics, Computer Science, Quantitative Economics, and in any other subject related to Statistics as identified by the Institute from time to time. ISI is a public university, as the same act also states that ISI would be funded by the Central Government of India.\n\nISI had by the 1960s started establishing special service units in New Delhi, Chennai, Bangalore, Mumbai and Hyderabad to provide consultancy services to business, industry and governmental public service organisations in the areas of Statistical Process Control, Operations Research and Industrial Engineering. Additionally, Bangalore had a Documentation Research and Training Centre (DRTC). In the early 1970s, the Delhi and Bangalore units were converted to teaching centres. In 2008, ISI Chennai was upgraded to a teaching centre. In 2011, ISI added a new centre in Tezpur.\n\nISI functions as an autonomous institute under the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI), which is the nodal ministry of the Government of India that ensures the functioning of ISI in accordance with The Indian Statistical Institute Act 1959. ISI Council is the highest policy–making body of the institute. Members of this council include the President of ISI, the Chairman of ISI, representatives of the Government of India including one representative of RBI, scientists not employed in ISI including one representative from the Planning Commission of India and one representative of the UGC, representatives of scientific and non-scientific workers of ISI, and representative from academic staff of ISI, including the Director of ISI and the Dean of Studies of ISI. Bimal Kumar Roy was the Director until 10 June 2015; in a move unique in the history of the Institute, he was removed from his post via a notice posted on the web site of the Ministry of Statistics and Planning.\n\nThe major objectives of the ISI are to facilitate research and training of Statistics, to indulge in development of statistical theory and in application of statistical techniquesin the scenarios of planning at national level and in theoretical development of natural and social sciences, to participate in the process of data collection and analysis, to operate related projects in planning and improvement of efficiency of management and production.\n\nThe Sanskrit phrase भिन्नेष्वैक्यस्य दर्शणम् (Bhinneswaykyasya Darshanam), which literally means the philosophy of unity in diversity, is incorporated in the logo of the institute, and is the motto of ISI.\n\nTraditionally, ISI offers fewer programs (and admits fewer students) than most other degree granting academic institutions. Following the empowerment for granting degrees in the subject of Statistics as per the ISI Act 1959, in 1960, ISI initiated bachelor level degree program Bachelor of Statistics and master level degree course Master of Statistics, and also began awarding research level degrees such as PhD and DSc. Later, ISI started offering Master of Technology (MTech) courses in Computer Science and in Quality, Reliability & Operations Research (QR&OR); these courses got recognition from All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). As ISI Act of 1959 was amended by the Parliament of India in 1995, ISI was empowered to confer degrees and diplomas in subjects such as Mathematics, Quantitative Economics, Computer Science, and other subjects related to Statistics and Operations Research as determined by ISI from time to time. Apart from the degree courses, ISI offers few diploma and certificate courses, special diploma courses for international students via ISEC, and special courses in collaboration with CSO for training probationary officers of Indian Statistical Service (ISS).\n\nISI offers two undergraduate programs, viz. Bachelor of Statistics (Honours) (B.Stat) and Bachelor of Mathematics (Honours) (B. Math), seven graduate programs, viz. Master of Statistics (M. Stat), Master of Mathematics (M. Math), Master of Science in Quantitative Economics (MSQE), Master of Science in Library and Information Science (MSLIS), Master of Science in Quality Management Science (MSQMS), Master of Technology in Computer Science (MTech–CS) and Master of Technology in Quality, Reliability and Operations Research (MTech–QROR), three PG Diploma programs, viz Post Graduate Diploma in Computer Applications (PGDCA) and P.G. Diploma in Statistical Methods and Analytics and research fellowships towards obtaining a PhD degree. The third PG diploma program being in collaboration with IIM Calcutta and IIT Kharagpur - Post Graduate Diploma in Business Analytics (PGDBA) with an aim to nurture and develop highly skilled business analytical professionals.\n\nUndergraduate courses are of 3 years duration, whereas the graduate level courses of 2 years of duration. For all undergraduate and graduate level courses, the academic year is divided in two semesters. Except for sponsored candidates of MTech courses, ISI students are not required to pay any tuition fees. Conditional to performance beyond a threshold, all students and research fellows receive stipends, fellowships and contingency/book grants. Students demonstrating outstanding performances are rewarded at the end of the semesters. ISI campuses provide hostel accommodations with recreational facilities and limited medical facilities available free of cost.\n\nApplicants of all degree courses are required to go through written admission tests and interviews. ISI conducts the written tests at various examination centres across India. Only in few cases, candidates may get called for the interview directly, viz. applicants of MTech Computer Science course having a GATE score above a threshold. Also, candidates of research fellowship programmes having already qualified for a fellowship from CSIR or NBHM, can directly appear in an interview.\n\nIn 1950, ISI, in collaboration with International Statistical Institute, UNESCO and Government of India, had set up International Statistical Education Centre (ISEC) to impart knowledge of theoretical and applied statistics to participants from Middle East, East and South-East Asia, the Far East and Commonwealth countries of Africa. The main training course offered by ISEC is meant for international students, preferably graduates with proficiency in English and Mathematics. ISEC, located in Kolkata campus of ISI, functions with support from the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation of the Government of India.\n\n\"Sankhya\", the statistical journal published by ISI, was founded in 1933, along the lines of Karl Pearson's \"Biometrika\". Mahalanobis was the founder editor. Each volume of \"Sankhya\" consists of four issues; two of them are in Series A, containing articles on theoretical statistics, probability theory and stochastic processes, and the other two issues form the Series B, containing articles on applied statistics, i.e. applied probability, applied stochastic processes, econometrics and statistical computing.\n\nAccording to India Education Review, no Indian university is in the world's top 200 universities. The ascribed ranking of ISI is 386. The web ranking of this institute, according to 4ICU (4 International Colleges and Universities), is 1693. According to the web ranking published by Webometrics Ranking of World Universities, ISI currently holds the world rank of 1352. In the subject-wise academic world ranking of Computer Science, Indian Statistical Institute features in 101—150 category. The Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata is ranked 2nd in Computer Science research by mean citation rate, p-Index, h-index among all universities in India.\n\nOver the years, researchers of ISI made fundamental contributions in various fields of Statistics such as Design of Experiments, Sample Survey, Multivariate statistics and Computer Science. Mahalanobis introduced the measure Mahalanobis distance which is used in multivariate statistics and other related fields. Raj Chandra Bose, who is known for his contributions in coding theory, worked on Design of Experiments during his tenure at ISI, and was one of the three mathematicians, who disproved Euler's conjecture on orthogonal Latin squares. Anil Kumar Bhattacharya is credited with introduction of the measures Bhattacharyya distance and Bhattacharya coefficient. Samarendra Nath Roy is known for his pioneering contributions in multivariate statistics. Among colleagues of Mahalanobis, other notable contributors were K. R. Nair in Design of experiments, Jitendra Mohan Sengupta in Sample Survey, Ajit Dasgupta in Demography and Ramkrishna Mukherjea in Quantitative Sociology. C. R. Rao's contributions during his association with ISI include two theorems of Statistical Inference known as Cramér–Rao inequality and Rao-Blackwell Theorem, and introduction of orthogonal arrays in Design of Experiments. Anil Kumar Gain is known for his contributions to the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient with his colleague Sir Ronald Fisher at the University of Cambridge.\n\nIn 1953, India's first indigenous computer was designed by Samarendra Kumar Mitra who headed the Computing Machines and Electronics Laboratory at ISI Calcutta. The Indian Statistical Institute was also hosted the first two digital computers in South Asia; the HEC-2M from England in 1956, and the URAL from the Soviet Union in 1959. These were also among the earliest digital computers in Asia (outside Japan).\n\nDuring 1953 - 1956 distinguished scientists, like Ronald Fisher, Norbert Wiener and Yuri Linnik visited ISI. Norbert Wiener collaborated with Gopinath Kallianpur on topics including ergodic theory, prediction theory and generalized harmonic analysis. In 1962, during his month-long visit to ISI, Soviet mathematician Andrey Kolmogorov wrote his notable paper on Kolmogorov complexity, which was published in Sankhya, 1963. Other distinguished scientists including Jerzy Neyman, Walter A. Shewhart, W. Edwards Deming and Abraham Wald have visited ISI during the tenure of P. C. Mahalanobis.\n\nThe second five-year plan of India was a brainchild of Mahalanobis. The plan followed the Mahalanobis model, an economic development model developed by Mahalanobis in 1953. The plan attempted to determine the optimal allocation of investment between productive sectors in order to maximise long-run economic growth . It used the prevalent state of art techniques of operations research and optimisation as well as the novel applications of statistical models developed at ISI. This second five-year plan shifted the focus from agriculture to industrialisation, with an objective of attaining self-reliance by economy of India. Domestic production of industrial products was encouraged in this plan, particularly in the development of the public sector. The two-pronged strategy devised in this plan targeted rapid growth of the heavy industry, keeping emphasis on growth of small and cottage industries.\n\nB. S. Minhas and K. S. Parikh, both from the Planning Unit of ISI Delhi, played key roles in the Planning Commission of the Government of India. Minhas, who joined the Planning Unit in 1962 and retired as a distinguished scientist in 1989, was a member of the Planning Commission during 1971–74. Parikh, who was a member of the Planning Commission during 2004–09, chaired Integrated Energy Policy Committee of the commission, was a member of the Economic Advisory Council of India during the tenure of five prime ministers, also played a role in the Department of Atomic Energy establishment, and was a key advisor to the government on energy issues.\n\nIn India, the first analog computer was designed by Samarendra Kumar Mitra and built by Ashish Kumar Maity at ISI in 1953, for use in computation of numerical solutions of simultaneous linear equations using a modified version of Gauss-Siedel iteration. In 1955, the first digital computer of India was procured by ISI. This machine was of a model named HEC-2M, manufactured by British Tabulating Machine Company (BTM). As per the agreement with BTM, ISI had to take care of the installation work and maintenance of it, before it became operational in 1956. Though this HEC-2M machine and the URAL-1 machine, which was bought in 1959 from Russia, were operational till 1963, ISI began development of the first second-generation digital computer of India in collaboration with Jadavpur University (JU). This joint collaboration led by the head of the Computing Machines and Electronics Laboratory at ISI, Samarendra Kumar Mitra, produced the transistor-driven machine ISIJU-1, which became operational in 1964. The first annual convention of the Computer Society of India (CSI) was hosted by ISI in 1965. The Computer and Communication Sciences division of ISI produced many eminent scientists such as Samarendra Kumar Mitra (its original founder), Dwijesh Dutta Majumdar, Sankar Kumar Pal, Bidyut Baran Chaudhuri, Nikhil R. Pal, Bhabani P. Sinha, Bhargab B. Bhattacharya, Malay K. Kundu, Sushmita Mitra, Bhabatosh Chanda, C. A. Murthy, Sanghamitra Bandyopadhyay and many. ISI is regarded as one of the top most centres for research in computer science in India and attracts some of the best students in the country.\n\nThe Knowledge-based Computer Systems project (KBCS), funded jointly by Department of Electronics and Information Technology (DoE), Government of India and UNDP since 1986, has a nodal centre at ISI Kolkata. This unit is responsible for research in the area of image processing, pattern recognition, computer vision and artificial intelligence.\n\nR. L. Brahmachari, known for his work in many fields like agricultural sciences, zoology, botany, biometrics, did much of his work at ISI.\n\nThe institute has done some pioneering work and research in anthropology and palaeontology. A trove of dinosaur fossils was discovered by a team led by ISI researchers in the early 1960s. The scattered fossils were recovered and the partial skeleton was reconstructed at ISI's Baranagar campus. It turned out to be a unique species and was named the \"\", after Rabindranath Tagore and was mounted in the Geology Museum at the Kolkata Campus of the Institute.\n\nThe Linguistic Research Unit (LRU) of ISI was involved in the study of speech pathology. Đorđe Kostić of this laboratory was a distinguished scientist. He invented a unique hearing aid, called SAFA (Selective Auditory Frequency Amplifier) that simulates frequency-range according to the need of the particular hearing impaired person.\n\nMany students and research scholars of ISI pursued a career in academics, and have excelled in the fields of statistics, mathematics, probability theory, computer science and economics. In statistics alumni of ISI who have been elected a Fellow of the American Statistical Association include P. V. Sukhatme (1950) and K. R. Nair (1951).\n\nISI alumni notable for non-academic career include politicians Subramanian Swamy and Dipankar Bhattacharya.\n\nSoviet premier Nikita Khrushchev visited ISI during his visit to India in 1955. Zhou Enlai, the Prime Minister of China, and Ho Chi Minh, the President of Vietnam, during their visit to India specifically visited ISI respectively on 9 September 1956 and 13 February 1958.\n\nISI has its headquarters and the main campus in Kolkata. It has other centres in New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai and smaller units in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Coimbatore, Giridih, Pune and Vadodara. Tezpur, the 4th centre of ISI was inaugurated in 2011.\n\nSince mid-forties, ISI pioneered in research and application of Statistical Quality Control (SQC) in India. Walter A. Shewhart, the statistician known as \"the father of SQC\", and other experts of this field visited ISI over the years. The first Statistical Quality Control and Operations Research (SQC & OR) unit of ISI was set up in Mumbai in 1953, followed by Bangalore and Kolkata units in 1954. In 1976, this unit was transformed into the SQC & OR Division, which now operates eight units, located at various industrial centres in IndiaKolkata, Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai, Coimbatore and Vadodara. These units partake in technical consultancy with public and private organisations, in addition with performing research and training activities.\n\nThe branch at Giridih was set up in 1931 and it has two operational units, viz. the Sociological Research Unit and the Agricultural Research Unit.\n\nISI Kolkata has a campus consisting of six addresses at 201 through 206 Barrackpore Trunk Road, Baranagar. These include a house, which was an erstwhile office of the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) of India.\n\nISI Kolkata campus is eco-friendly, as conceived by Mahalanobis. Hollow bricks that protect from heat and noise were used with minimum use of reinforced concrete, to avoid radiation. There was no use of bitumen-basalt combination at the roads inside ISI campuses. This helps in reduction of radiation and preservation of rain water to maintain equilibrium in ground-water level.\n\nThe Kolkata campus offers bachelors level degree course in Statistics (B. Stat), master's degree course in Statistics (M.Stat), Mathematics (M.Math), Computer Science (MTech), Quality Reliability and Operations Research (MTech) and Quantitative Economics (M.S.). Major divisions and units are: Statistics and Mathematics Unit (SMU), Human Genetics Unit (HGU), Physics and Applied Mathematics Unit (PAMU), Geological Studies Unit (GSU), Advanced Computation and MicroElectronics Unit (ACMU), Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Unit (CVPRU), Machine Intelligence Unit (MIU), Electronics and Communication Sciences Unit (ECSU), Applied Statistics Unit (ASU), Economic Research Unit (ERU), Linguistic Research Unit (LRU), Sociology Research Unit (SRU), Psychometry Research Unit (PRU) and Population Studies Unit (PSU).\n\nThe Kolkata campus houses the International Statistical Education Centre (ISEC), which opened in 1950. This Centre provides training in statistics to sponsored students mainly from the Middle East, South and South East Asia, the Far East and the Commonwealth Countries of Africa. The Centre also offers various short-term courses in statistics and related subjects.\n\nThe Center for Soft Computing Research: A National Facility, an associate institute of Indian Statistical Institute and established in Kolkata in 2005, is unique in the country. Apart from conducting basic research, it offers a 3-month course and promotes less endowed institutes by providing fellowships and research grants.\n\nThe Central Library of ISI is located at Kolkata with branches at the other facilities. The library has over 200,000 volumes of books and journals with a special emphasis on the field of statistics and related studies. The main branch also has a collection of official reports, reprints, maps, and microfilms. The library receives over a thousand new technical and scientific journals every year. The Library has databases on CD-ROM and is working on further digitization of the collection. The library has a separate collection of works on the topics of mathematics and statistics called the Eastern Regional Centre of NBHM collection, funded by grants from the National Board for Higher Mathematics.\n\nThe ISI campus at New Delhi was established in 1974 and was shifted to the present campus in 1975.\n\nThe Delhi campus offers two master level courses Master of Statistics (M. Stat) and Master of Science (M. S.) in Quantitative Economics, and doctoral programs.\n\nThe Bangalore Centre of ISI started with a Statistical Quality Control and Operations Research (SQC&OR) unit in 1954. The Documentation Research and Training Centre (DRTC) here became operational from 1962 with honorary professor S. R. Ranganathan as the head. Prof. Mahalanobis planned of starting a full-fledged centre of ISI here around the mid-sixties. In 1966, the then Government of Karnataka granted ISI 30 acres of forest land full of eucalyptus trees, next to the upcoming campus of the Bangalore University, located on the Mysore Road on the outskirts of the city.\n\nHowever, after death of Prof. Mahalanobis in 1972, the project of establishing Bangalore centre got temporarily shelved. The project was again revived during 1976–78. Concrete proposals were made to the Government of India to get grants for the development of the land already in possession of ISI, along with the construction of an academic block with a library and offices.\n\nIn the meantime, a building was rented on Church Street, in Bangalore downtown, and various activities of the Bangalore Centre started in September 1978. The Economic Analysis Unit (EAU) and the Statistics and Mathematics Unit (SMU) were established. The SQC&OR Unit and the DRTC unit, which were functioning from other rented buildings at that time, joined this new Centre.\n\nAs construction of the administrative block at the new campus got completed, the various units moved to the new campus in May 1985. The sprawling green wooded Campus has Residential Facility for students, faculty and staff.\n\nThe Bangalore centre was formally declared as a centre of ISI in September 1996.\n\nThe Systems Science and Informatics Unit (SSIU) was established in 2009\n\nThe Bangalore centre has by now became an institution well known for its academic activities in Mathematics, Statistics, Computer Science, SQC and Operations Research, Library and Information Science, and Quantitative Economics.\n\nThe Bangalore campus offers bachelor level course Bachelor of Mathematics (B. Math), master level courses Master of Mathematics (M. Math), Master of Science (M. S.) in Library and Information Science and Master of Science (M. S.) in Quality Management Science, and doctoral programs.\n\nIntegration is the annual techno-cultural fest of Indian Statistical Institute, usually held during the first and second weekend of January each year. It is one of the biggest student fests in Kolkata, and attracts participation from all over the world.Also the performances of great artists are always a center of attraction for all.\n\nAlumni of ISIincluding recipients of PhD degreeare employed in government and semi–government departments, industrial establishments, research institutions, in India and other countries. There is a placement cell in ISI Kolkata that organizes campus interviews by prospective employers in various campuses of ISI. Since recent past, a high percentage of ISI alumni gets absorbed into jobs in analytics, banking, finance and software industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "5003635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5003635", "title": "Institute for Political and Legal Education", "text": "Institute for Political and Legal Education\n\nThe Institute for Political and Legal Education is an organization in which high school students are introduced to the American legislative and judicial process. Students learn about the separation of powers, checks and balances, limits on the powers of the executive branch, and the role of the citizen in American society. In addition students learn how those ideas have evolved over the years.\n\nTo simulate the judicial process, students or groups of students are assigned civil court cases. Students then research the topic and develop a position which they write in a paper. The actual case is simulated in a mock hearing. Students are given a set amount of time to try to convince a mock judge to agree with their position through reasoning. The judge can then ask follow-up questions with which the students clarify their position and address concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "3043048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3043048", "title": "International Mathematics Competition for University Students", "text": "International Mathematics Competition for University Students\n\nThe International Mathematics Competition for University Students (IMC) is an annual mathematics competition open to all undergraduate students of mathematics. Participating students are expected to be at most twenty three years of age at the time of the IMC. The IMC is primarily a competition for individuals, although most participating universities select and send one or more teams of students. The working language is English.\n\nThe IMC is a residential competition and all student participants are required to stay in the accommodation provided by the organisers. It aims to provide a friendly, comfortable and secure environment for university mathematics students to enjoy mathematics with their peers from all around the world, to broaden their world perspective and to be inspired to set mathematical goals for themselves that might not have been previously imaginable or thought possible. Students from over 200 universities from over 50 countries have participated over the first twenty five competitions. At the 25 IMC in 2018 participants were awarded Individual Result Prizes, Team Result Prizes, Fair Play Prizes and Most Efficient Team Leader Prizes.\n\nUniversity College London LONDON'S GLOBAL UNIVERSITY has been involved in the organisation of the IMC and Professor John E. Jayne has served as the President from the beginning in 1994. The IMC runs over five or six days during which the competitors sit two five-hour examinations, each with five questions (six until 2008) chosen by a panel and representatives from the participating universities. Problems are from the fields of Algebra, Analysis (Real and Complex), Combinatorics and Geometry. \n\nThe IMC began in 1994 in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, with 49 participants, mostly from Bulgaria, and was hosted by Plovdiv University \"Paisii Hilendarski\". The 2, 3 and 4 IMC were also hosted by Plovdiv University \"Paisii Hilendarski\" in Plovdiv. From 1996 to 1999 the IMC was one of the activities of the Structural Joint European Union TEMPUS Project #S_JEP-11087-96, entitled \"Modular Education in Mathematics and Informatics\", which was the flag ship European Union TEMPUS Project in Bulgaria at the time, aimed at bringing Bulgaria's university mathematics and computing degree programs into line with those in the European Union in preparation for Bulgaria's entry into the European Union. University College London was the Contractor for this European Union TEMPUS Project and Professor Jayne was the Coordinator of the Project. In 1998 the 5 IMC was moved to Blagoevgrad, Bulgaria, and was hosted by both the South-West University \"Neofit Rilski\" in Blagoevgrad and the American University in Bulgaria. The 5 IMC had 80 participants from 9 countries.\n\nThe 6 IMC was hosted by Eötvös Loránd University and held on Lake Balaton in Keszthely, Hungary, the 7 IMC was hosted by University College London in London, the 8 IMC was hosted by Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic, the 9 IMC was hosted by the University of Warsaw in Warsaw, Poland, the 10 IMC was hosted by Babeș-Bolyai University in Cluj-Napoca, Romania, the 11 IMC was hosted by Ss. Cyril and Methodius University of Skopje in Skopje, Macedonia, the 12 IMC was hosted by American University in Bulgaria in Blagoevgrad, the 13 IMC was hosted by Odessa University in Odessa, Ukraine, the 14 IMC and 15 IMC were again hosted by the American University in Bulgaria in Blagoevgrad, and the 16 IMC was hosted by the Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest. In 2009 the 16 IMC had 347 student participants and 65 teams. Since 2010 the IMC has been hosted by the American University in Bulgaria, in Blagoevgrad, with assistance from the South-West University \"Neofit Rilski\" in Blagoevgrad. The 25 IMC had 351 student participants and 70 teams.\n\nList of mathematics competitions\n\n"}
{"id": "22575977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22575977", "title": "International Sakharov Environmental Institute", "text": "International Sakharov Environmental Institute\n\nInternational Sakharov Environmental Institute is an institute in Minsk, Belarus, part of the Belarusian State University.\n\nThe institute offers both undergraduate and graduate degrees. \n\nIn February 2011 1,273 full-time students were enrolled.\nInternational Sakharov Environmental Institute was formed on January 20, 1992 after the resolution of the Republic of Belarus in compliance with the recommendations of the International Sakharov Congress (Moscow, May, 1991) by means of the United Nations Organization.\n\nThe necessity of founding such an educational institution appeared as a result of the Chernobyl disaster of 1986, when there were practically no specialists professionally trained for minimization of the consequences of radiation accidents. Following the initiatives of the International Congress of memory of Andrei Sakharov “Peace, progress, human rights” and the program “Chernobyl” controlled by the United Nations Organization, Sakharov college was inaugurated in Minsk. The next stage of the development was 1994, when after the resolution of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Belarus the college became independent International Institute of Radioecology. In 1999 after the state accreditation the Institute acquired the status of University. \n\nIn May 2015 prorector Sergey S. Poznyak was appointed acting rector of the university. He is Doktor nauk in agricultural sciences.\n\nSince 1 September 2015 the Institute is a division of Belarusian State University.\n\nThe university consists of five faculties, as delineated below.\n\nThe Faculty of Environmental Monitoring contains six academic departments: 1) the department of nuclear and radiation safety, 2) the department of environmental management and monitoring, 3) the department of energy efficient technologies; 4) the department of environmental information systems; 5) the department of physics and higher mathematics and 6) the department of philosophy, sociology and economics.\n\nThe faculty of ecological medicine prepares students to explore and assess the impact of biogenic and abiogenic environmental factors, on cells, tissues, organs and all body systems (cardiovascular, nervous, endocrine, immune, etc.) from molecular to populational level. The students are provided with practical training, which exposes them to a wide range of methods to diagnose different pathologies, assess effectiveness of the treatment and correct after-effects (e.g. immunocorrection, immunoreactive samples screening), to search for pathologic markers of aggressive environment influence on human body and to master the whole range of modern clinical and diagnostic methods. \n\nFaculty students have good practical training not only in the well-equipped university laboratories but also on the base of clinics, in the institutes of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, in clinical and scientific-research institutes of the Ministry of Healthcare and other organizations and establishments of health preventive and therapeutic profile.\n\nEcological outlook of students is greatly formed by the complex bio-ecological summer educational training (1st year), conducted at the educational-scientific station «Volmа», at the base of the Central Botanic Garden of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus, Minsk Zoo, Loshitza and other parks, as well as natural biocenoses. Besides, the students have their summer training practice on the program of junior and middle medical staff in clinics (2nd year students) and practical training according to their specialization (3rd year students). As a rule, the students undergo their work experience training course at the establishments where they will work on their course and diploma papers, and also forthcoming industrial activity.\n\nFrom the moment of formation of the ISEU, the students are taught according to modern progressive training techniques. Special attention is paid to the methodological support of the training process and students' scientific research work. Among the peculiarities of the faculty, a unique concept for training specialists: students in the educational process receive fundamental knowledge in the field of natural (physical and mathematical, chemical) and humanities in combination with deep medical-biological training. They acquire good skills of two or even three European languages, good knowledge in the field of computer technologies and informatics. Faculty graduate is a specialist with a rare combination of professional skills and knowledge of innovative technologies which are in demand nowadays.\n\nFaculty students, graduates, master students and post-graduates become the winners and laureates of the Republican competitions of students' scientific works in the field of natural sciences and receive scholarships of various Republican (Fund of the President of the Republic of Belarus) and international funds (Fund of Vernadskiy V., World federation of scientists, International expert council «Man and biosphere» named after Timofeev-Resovskiy N. etc.). Lecturers, Except of post-graduates, magistrates and students work, undergo their probation periods and study in the leading scientific centers not only in Belarus, Russia and other member countries of CIS but Great Britain, France, Germany, Austria, Poland, Switzerland, Italy, Ireland, Canada USA, Israel and others.\n"}
{"id": "47697190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47697190", "title": "Jinno Institute", "text": "Jinno Institute\n\nThe is an educational foundation in Aichi that operates a university and two colleges in Gifu, Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8334570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8334570", "title": "Jocelyn Alizart", "text": "Jocelyn Alizart\n\nJocelyn Alizart (born February 1, 1949 in Plaines Wilhems, Mauritius) is a ballet master, teacher and choreographer. He began his career in 1975, under the leadership of Hanna Voos and the Cuban choreographer Jorge Lefebre. In 1984, he joined the Malmö Ballet, as ballet master under director Elsa Marianne von Rosen. While there, he created two 2 ballets: \"Delibes Suite\" and \"Samson and Dalila\". He also served briefly with Ballet de France and Ballet du Louvre.\n\nIn 1988, he joined the National Ballet of Finland with Director Doris Laine, and then worked between 1991 and 1998 in Deutsche Opera Rhein in Düsseldorf with Heinz Spörli and Yuri Vamos. During this time he created additional ballets, \"Isadora \"Sans limites\"\", \"Choice of Two Mothers\", \"Twins\", \"En Souvenir\", and \"Pictures\". In 1988, he was asked by Director Uwe Scholz to join the Leipzig Ballet. Since 2000, he has toured throughout the world, primarily in Northern Europe, as a guest teacher and choreographer.\n\nHis body of work includes 12 full-length ballets as well as numerous musicals and solos.\n\n"}
{"id": "10982310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10982310", "title": "Journal of Singing", "text": "Journal of Singing\n\nThe Journal of Singing is the peer-reviewed journal sponsored and published by the National Association of Teachers of Singing (NATS). Published five times a year, the journal provides current information regarding the teaching of singing as well as results of recent research in the field. A refereed journal, it serves as a historical record and is a venue for teachers of singing and other scholars to share the results of their work in areas such as history, diction, voice science, medicine, and especially voice pedagogy. The journal was formerly known as the \"NATS Bulletin.\" Access to archived articles is only through NATS membership.\n\n"}
{"id": "54489841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54489841", "title": "Karen Taft", "text": "Karen Taft\n\nKaren Taft, born Karen Marie Toft Jensen, (1905–1997) was a Danish ballet dancer, choreographer and classical ballet teacher. From the mid-1940s, she was based in Madrid where from 1949 she ran the country's principal ballet school.\n\nBorn in Copenhagen on 25 April 1905, Karen Toft Jensen was the daughter of the successful hotel director Anders Jensen (1861-1940) and Karen Kjerstine Nørtoft (1874-1933). When she was 16, despite the disapproval of her family, she began seriously to study ballet. Two years later, she met the choreographer Michel Fokine who complemented her on her performance. In order to prevent further problems with her family, she moved to New York.\n\nIn 1929, she was engaged by the Roxy Theater in the Rockefeller Center where she danced for two years before returning to Europe as a solo dancer. As she toured, she sought out the best teachers, including Lyubov Yegorova and Olga Preobrajenska in Paris and Tamara Karsavina and Anton Dolin in London.\n\nTaft returned to Denmark in 1939 where she established a ballet company. Faced with the threat of war, she soon dissolved it and moved to Madrid in 1940. Despite the results of the civil war, she fell in love with the country and decided to stay there. In 1949, she founded her ballet school. Over the years, it became an integral part of the city's cultural scene, training many ballet dancers who joined the country's theatres. In the 1950s, she also worked as a choreographer, participating in García Leoz's \"La duquesa de Candil\" and assisting with the review \"Te espero en Eslava\".\n\nKaren Taft died in Madrid on 26 July 1997.\n"}
{"id": "32405172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32405172", "title": "Kazakh-British Technical University", "text": "Kazakh-British Technical University\n\nKazakh-British Technical University, or KBTU is a research and educational institution located in Almaty, Kazakhstan. It was founded in 2001.\n\nKBTU’s research is focused in the main sectors of the Kazakhstani economy – oil and gas, information technologies, banking and finance, and telecommunications.\n\nKBTU is the first and only Kazakhstani university with internationally accredited IT programs by the U.S. agency, the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET). It is also the first and only Kazakhstani university to receive an international accreditation for its Oil and Gas programs in the UK by the Institution of Marine Engineering, Science and Technology (IMarEST), UK .\n\nQuick Facts: \n\nThe idea to establish KBTU belonged to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who had a number of meetings with official representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This activity resulted in the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the two states in November 2000. British Prime Minister Tony Blair and RK President Nursultan Nazarbayev became patrons of the university. The university was established by Resolution No 1027 of the RK Government dated August 3, 2001, in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the RK Ministry of Education and Science and the British Council. On behalf of Kazakhstan, the founder is the RK Government and the authorized agency the RK Ministry of Education and Science. \n\nThe university’s development has been actively promoted by the President’s Administration, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, the Ministry of Finance, the State Agency for Strategic Planning, the Embassy of Kazakhstan to the UK, and the Educational Foundation of N. Nazarbayev. Four of these bodies are represented on the KBTU Board of Directors. On the British side, KBTU partners are the British Embassy to Kazakhstan with the British Council as its main representative. Consultation services are provided by the University of Aberdeen and Robert Gordon University, both situated in Aberdeen, the “oil capital” of the UK, Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, and the University of Westminster in London. All these universities offer advanced training courses in Oil and Gas and in Business Administration. Moreover, they are in the education market for the oil and gas industry. \n\nKBTU sponsors include: KazMunaiGas, KazTransOil, Kazakhstan Chinese Pipeline, Tengizshevroil, BG Group, BP, HSBC, Agip KCO, Kazakhstan Petroleum Association, Karachaganak Petroleum Operating, Repsol, Shell, Chevron Texaco, Schlumberger, Halliburton, PetroKazakhstan, Lloyd’s Register, Invenys, Statoil, KazEnergy, and Total S.A..\n\nDual-degree diploma programs with:\n\nStudent exchange programs with:\n\nInternational Partners:\n\n2 affiliated Chemical Research Institutes: \n\nInstitute of Oil and Gas\n\nOil & Gas and IT Industrial Institute\n\n20 Scientific Research Centers and Laboratories, including Material Science and Oil and Gas Research laboratories\n\nScientific Laboratory of Nanotechnology\n\nSupercomputer IBM Blade Center, integrated with 70 research institutions in Europe and the USA\n\n"}
{"id": "5961007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5961007", "title": "Li Ka Shing Foundation", "text": "Li Ka Shing Foundation\n\nThe Li Ka Shing Foundation (李嘉誠基金會) is a Hong Kong-based charitable organization founded in 1980 by Hong Kong entrepreneur Li Ka-shing. It is the second largest private foundation led by a wealthy individual in the world, after Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nLi Ka-shing considers the Li Ka Shing Foundation to be his \"third son\" and has pledged to donate one-third of his assets to support philanthropic projects. He has called for other Asian entrepreneurs to do the same, in the hope of altering the traditional notion of passing wealth through lineage.\n\nThe Li Ka Shing Foundation's story stretches back over three decades: Having grown up witness to suffering and illness, Li Ka-shing cultivated a compassion that set in motion the idea of establishing a charitable foundation.\n\nLi Ka Shing Foundation supports projects that promote social progress through expanding access to quality education and medical services and research, encouraging cultural diversity and community involvement.\n\nEvery project and every donation stems from Li Ka-shing's belief in the inherent value of each human life, regardless of race, class, or circumstance. He has devoted himself to helping others overcome the educational and physical barriers preventing them from achieving their potential.\n\n\nTo date, Li Ka Shing Foundation has granted approximately HK$14.5 billion (US$1.86 billion) in charitable donations, approximately 90% in support of education reform initiatives and medical services in Greater China region.\n\nHong Kong:\n\nMainland China:\n\nOverseas:\n\n"}
{"id": "40545602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40545602", "title": "Mabel Park State School", "text": "Mabel Park State School\n\nMabel Park State School is a public primary for students between the years of prep to year 6. The school is located on Borman Street, Slacks Creek, Logan City, Queensland, Australia. The school was opened on 29 January 1974 and, as of 2012, had more than 700 students. The motto of the school is \"Truth Conquers All\" and the school colour is maroon. The schools Drumline has played for many concerts. They have played for Dreamworld and Basketball games in the Logan region. The choir for the school has also been in many concerts. The school has won many awards from the musical department. The school has been shown in Queensland's Creative Generation a few times in both musical categories (drumline and vocal). \nMabel Park Junior Campus is located next to the primary school.\n\nThe school was established in 1974. In June 2013, the school was awarded \"school of the week\", when it was visited by John Schluter, weatherman of 7NEWS and an \"animated sign\" saying MP, the school's initials, welcomed him in the Channel 7 helicopter. The sign was featured on Channel 7 News. In 2011, Julia Gillard, the Australian prime minister visited the school to comfort the kids involved in the major Slacks Creek house fire.\nThe school was initially known as Woodridge East SS before opening.\n\n"}
{"id": "59138328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59138328", "title": "Mary Edly-Allen", "text": "Mary Edly-Allen\n\nMary Edly-Allen is a Democratic member-elect of the Illinois House of Representatives for the 51st district. The district, located in Lake County, includes all or parts Deer Park, Forest Lake, Green Oaks, Hawthorn Woods, Kildeer, Lake Barrington, Lake Zurich, Libertyville, Long Grove, Mundelein and North Barrington.\n\nEdly-Allen, a teacher from Libertyville, defeated appointed Republican incumbent Helene Walsh of Mundelein in the 2018 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "17275449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17275449", "title": "McCall Outdoor Science School", "text": "McCall Outdoor Science School\n\nThe McCall Outdoor Science School (MOSS) is a year-round learning center that serves over 2500 Idaho K-12 students annually in residential and outreach settings. Field instructors for outdoor science programs are University of Idaho College of Natural Resources graduate students completing a certificate and master's degree in environmental education. The McCall Outdoor Science School also offers programs open to the public including Field Seminars, Faculty Lectures, and Community Partnerships. MOSS is Idaho's only residential outdoor science school.\n\nThe program is located at the University of Idaho McCall Field Campus on Payette Lake and is operated through a partnership between the University of Idaho College of Natural Resources and Ponderosa State Park.\n\nThe McCall Outdoor Science School was founded in 2001 by Dr. Steve Hollenhorst of the University of Idaho College of Natural Resources and Greg Fizzell of the Palouse-Clearwater Environmental Institute.\n\nA short history of the McCall Field Campus and MOSS is presented below:\n\n1938 - UI secures access to property\n1939 - Dining Hall built by Civilian Conservation Corps\n1942 - Forestry “Summer Camp” begins\n1970s - Cabins and bunkhouses built\n1990s - Summer Camp ends, facilities, decline, maintenance backlog grows\n2001 - K12 programs started with 35 students in one week of programming\n2003 - Grad program started with 8 students \n2005 - AmeriCorps program started\n2006 - $150K winterization improvements, year-round operation begins\n2007 - Community Outreach programs implemented\n2007 - Winter residential programs\n2008 - NSF EPSCoR grant received for K-12 Science Education\n2008 - Land Board grants 3-years to work out land exchange\n2009 - Kresge Grant to support Field Campus Master Plan\n2009 - FEMA fire mitigation and FireWise grant\n2012 - Dr. Lee Vierling becomes Executive Director of MOSS and McCall Field Campus\n2012 - Recipient of J.A. and Kathryn Albertson ID21 Award for Innovation in Education\n2012 - DeVlieg Distinguished Scholars program established through donation from the DeVlieg Foundation\n2013 - Recipient of W.K. Kellogg Foundation Award for Excellence in Outreach and Engagement for the Western United States\n2013 - Named finalist for National APLU Magrath Award with Pennsylvania State University, Ohio State University, and University of Texas El Paso\n2013 - New campus architectural master plan completed\n2014 - Recipient of Idaho Power 'Powering Lives' grant\n\nMOSS classes are conducted outdoors, mostly in Ponderosa State Park. The park's ecosystems include coniferous forest, mountain streams, lake shore, wet meadows, and shrub-steppe environments. The subject of ecosystem science serves as the context for standards-based study of science, technology, mathematics, and language arts.\n\nTeam-building and mutual respect are important components of MOSS field programs. New life skills in communication and group decision-making result when students participate in a series of low-ropes elements. Clear communication, respect, and teamwork are stressed through active metaphor.\n\nThe McCall Outdoor Science School (MOSS) graduate program includes several components. Sixteen graduate students serve as field instructors to K-12 student participants while earning 19 University of Idaho graduate course credits and developing a graduate project by partnering with a team of researchers or community members. Most of the work within the first year of the program takes place at the MOSS campus, with additional experience occurring in various schools around the state and at public agencies and nonprofit organizations across Idaho.\n\nAs field instructors in the MOSS K-12 program, graduate students lead teams of 6-10 K-12 students through the forests and along the streams of the Salmon River Mountains as they harness the power of science to unlock the mysteries of the world around them. They also participate in graduate level training programs in community ecology, teaching methods, and outdoor leadership. Outreach programs take MOSS on the road by visiting schools across the state of Idaho. Graduate students implement a catalog of environmental education programs both in classroom and field settings. In addition, graduate students develop their own unique curriculum or science communication products by partnering with a larger project teams. Training includes additional short courses, conferences, and workshops.\n\nEach graduate student spends the summer conducting a practicum at a variety of sites. These sites include public natural resource agencies and nonprofit organizations who are looking for skilled educators, interpreters, and natural resource technicians. During the summer, graduate students apply the skills and knowledge gained during the intense training and hands-on application to help scientists and environmental organizations statewide fulfill their missions and broaden their impact.\n\nMOSS offers summer and winter Teacher Institute focusing on teaching about topics such as climate, water, biofuels, and ecosystem services. K-12 teachers spend a long weekend on MOSS working alongside university scientists to discover current findings in scientific research fields and how these findings can be integrated into the classroom.\n\nGoals of the Teacher Institutes include:\n\n\"J.A. and Kathryn Albertson Foundation ID21 Grand Prize Award\", October 2012. \n\"W.K. Kellogg and APLU Magrath Award\", October 2013.\n\"Idaho Power Powering Lives Award\", October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "989503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=989503", "title": "Midori (author)", "text": "Midori (author)\n\nMidori was born in Kyoto, Japan, of Japanese and German parents, and raised with feminist values, while growing up in Tokyo.\n\nMidori moved to the United States as a teenager. She served as a United States Army Reserves Intelligence officer while earning her psychology degree from University of California, Berkeley, and spent a few years as a sex educator with \"San Francisco Sex Information\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30034238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30034238", "title": "Ministry of Science and Education (Croatia)", "text": "Ministry of Science and Education (Croatia)\n\nThe Ministry of Science and Education of the Croatia ( or MZO) is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of primary, secondary and tertiary education, research institutions and sports.\n\nThe ministry in its current form came into existence in 2003 in the Cabinet of Ivo Sanader I, resulting from the merger of the earlier Ministry of Science and Technology and the Ministry of Education and Sports. Both ministries had been originally formed in 1990, although they had changed forms and names several times during the 1990s. Below are lists of ministers of who headed both portfolios before the 2003 merger. \n\nFrom 1990 to 1992 the first three ministers held the title of Minister of Science, Technology and Informatics. In August 1992 the ministry was renamed Ministry of Science and Technology, which remained unchanged until 2003.\n\nBetween 1990 and 1993 the ministry was called Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports. In April 1993 it was renamed Ministry of Culture and Education. In October 1994 the ministry was split into the present-day Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Education and Sports (with Ljilja Vokić appointed as head of the latter). This form remained unchanged until 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "44290517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44290517", "title": "Monumenta Slavorum", "text": "Monumenta Slavorum\n\nMonumenta Slavorum (Latin for \"Monuments of Slavs\") were two series of primary sources for the history of South Slavs, published by the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts:\nAlthough they were originally envisaged as a collection of sources for the Medieval history of the South Slavs, they were subsequently expanded to cover later centuries as well. The inspiration for their publication had been the \"Monumenta Historica Germaniae\", and encouragement for publishing of the series was given by Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski and his collection of sources known as \"Iura regni Croatiae, Dalmatiae et Slavoniae\" (\"Rights of the kingdom of Croatia, Dalmatia and Slavonia\", 1861-1862).\n\nAfter the founding of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts in 1866, the institution under the chairmanship of Franjo Rački took up the task of publishing historical sources, which would serve as primary sources for the historical interpretation of the Croatian statehood. Publishing of the monuments commenced the following year, primarily of those that confirm the Croatian state law, in the series \"Monumenta spectantia historiam Slavorum Meridionalium\". \nThe laws of egdotics were used in publishing the sources, in accordance with the principles of contemporary European historiography. In the MSHSM series several sets of sources collected into thematic and temporal units by renowned experts such as:\nThe particularly fertile period was until 1918, when 43 volumes were printed. After long delays, and only periodic publishing, the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts has revived the issuance of MSHSM after 1990, and the last volume was published in 2002. 53 volumes were published in total.\n\n\"Monumenta historico-juridica Slavorum Meridionalium\" commenced publishing in 1877 with a series \"Statuta et leges\". The series was intended to cover a variety of sources of legal significance (primarily codes, statutes and ), and the rationale for the methods of their publication was given by Baldo Bogišić in the book \"Pisani zakoni na slavenskom jugu\" (1872). Other editors of the series were:\nŠime Ljubić and other renowned historians. In this series sources collected by Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski and Radslav Lopašić were printed. Only 13 volumes were published in the series, the last one in 1979.\n\nAlthough some of the monuments (documents, statutes) have experienced modern editions in the past two decades, both of the series contain valuable and indispensable sources for the study of Croatian and South Slavic history.\n"}
{"id": "9978940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9978940", "title": "Mothers Off Duty", "text": "Mothers Off Duty\n\nMothers Off Duty (M.O.D.) was a nonprofit, 501(c) (3) women's organization, founded in 1991 in the belief that the duties of motherhood extend beyond the immediate family. The group describes the core of the non-profit's mission as \"[aiding] in the prevention of teen pregnancy; support parental responsibility and promote continued education among mothers through mentoring, scholarships, and other community outreach targeting children and young women.\"\n\nMothers Off Duty (M.O.D). was founded on June 29, 1991, by Faith Taylor and novelist Lori Bryant-Woolridge, Benita Harris-Perkins, Shelia Craig-Whiteman, Rita Parker-Woodard and incorporated as a non-profit in August 1997.\n\n\nMothers Off Duty has also worked closely with a children's shelter in South Orange, New Jersey. The members, scholarship recipients and their families have prepared home-cooked Christmas dinners with Santa, and conducted Easter egg hunts and other holiday activities for the children in the shelter. Additional assistance has ranged from providing clothing and food to purchasing a stove for their facility.\n\n The Mothers Off Duty Scholarship Award \nSince 1993, Mothers Off Duty has given almost $80,000 in scholarships. The $500 award is given to an academically sound high school senior who is a mother or mother-to-be, and has been accepted to an accredited college or technical school. The Mothers Off Duty Scholarship is based on both need and merit. The money is deposited directly into the recipient's college account to be used for books or other school related expenses, including study abroad programs. Students who show progress in their studies can have their scholarships renewed for an additional $750 per year.\n\n\nIn 1998, M.O.D. initiated the Summer Camp Stipend. Partnering with the local YWCA, M.O.D. provides tuition for up to four needy children from local shelters to attend Camp Lenoloc, a two-week sleep-away camp located in upstate New York.\n\nThe Alice P. Hawkins and Delores Capers Gamble Mother of Distinction Awards honor mothers who have successfully balanced parenting with their professional lives, while at the same time making a difference in the lives of others. The organization seeks to honor everyday heroines who are working in their local communities to better things, particularly for women and children. Each honoree receives a $500 award to donate to her favorite charity.\n\nPast honorees include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45164006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45164006", "title": "Mykola Murashko", "text": "Mykola Murashko\n\nMykola Ivanovich Murashko (Ukrainian: Микола Іванович Мурашко; 20 May 1844, Hlukhiv – 22 September 1909, Bucha) was a Ukrainian painter and art teacher; the uncle of Oleksandr Murashko.\n\nHis father was an icon carver. From an early age he showed an interest in art; copying pictures from books. In 1858, the family moved to Kiev. Five years later, Ivan Soshenko, a teacher at the gymnasium, recommended that he pursue training in art. That same year, he began auditing classes at the Imperial Academy of Arts in Saint Petersburg.\n\nIllness prevented him from completing his course of study and he settled in Voronezh, but continued to send works to the Academy. On this basis, he was certified as an art teacher and began his career in a local primary school in 1868. In 1879, the Academy named him an \"Artist, 3rd Degree\".\n\nOver the years, he taught in several schools at different levels. From 1875 to 1901, he operated his own drawing school in Kiev which was supported by many well known artists; notably Ilya Repin, a friend from the Academy. Among those who attended the school were Mykola Pymonenko and . On his initiative, Kiev put on an annual art exhibition, beginning in 1877.\n\nIn the meantime, he produced numerous landscapes, many of which were purchased for the museum at the Academy. He also painted a few portraits and illustrated the first Ukrainian edition of Hans Christian Andersen's tales.\n\nTeaching, however, was always his priority and his students were given individual attention. In addition, he made numerous trips to Vienna, Paris, Rome and other notable art centers to study the latest teaching methods and wrote articles for a variety of local and national periodicals.\n\nAfter the school closed, he retired to the village of Bucha and began to write \"Memoirs of an Old Master\". Two parts were published, but the book was never finished, due to illness.\n\n"}
{"id": "19677432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19677432", "title": "Norwegian Directorate for Education and Training", "text": "Norwegian Directorate for Education and Training\n\nThe Norwegian Directorate for Education and Training (, UDIR) is Norwegian government agency under the Ministry of Education and Research. The Directorate is responsible for the development of kindergarten, primary and secondary education – including vocational training. The Norwegian Support System for Special Education (Statped) is managed by the Directorate.\n\nThe organisation, is headquarters is based in Oslo with branches in Hamar, Molde and Tromsø. The Directorate was established in 2004 by then-Minister of Education Kristin Clemet. Its director from 2004 to 2015 was Petter Skarheim. Hege Nilssen is the director general (2015-.) \n\nIn 2018, the Directorate for Education was merged with the Norwegian Center for ICT in Education. \n\nThe results of student examinations were annulled for all 1698 test takers (in subject \"matematikk 1 T\"), because the agency had e-mailed the questions prior to the exam, as instructed by a non-authorized recipient. \n\n"}
{"id": "16661721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16661721", "title": "O&amp;M College", "text": "O&amp;M College\n\nOrganization & Method College or (O&M College) is a university in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic. It was founded on 1966 by José Rafael Abinader. It has campus in other cities as well, Santiago de los Caballeros, La Romana, San José de Ocoa, San Felipe de Puerto Plata, Moca, Santo Domingo Este.\n\n"}
{"id": "36711231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36711231", "title": "Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the World Heritage Convention", "text": "Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the World Heritage Convention\n\nThe Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the World Heritage Convention are a series of instructions to signatory nations regarding the proper implementation of the 1972 Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. The guidelines were adopted by the UNESCO World Heritage Committee at its first session and amended at its second session in 1978.\n\nThe first text of the Operational Guidelines was titled Operational Guidelines for the World Heritage Committee. It dates back to 1977 at the First Session of the World Heritage Committee (27 June - 1 July) in Paris. The Drafting Committee and the World Heritage Committee prepared the text. It contained four chapters and twenty-eight paragraphs. In October same year, the Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the World Heritage with 27 paragraphs followed. A year later, at the Second Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, the Operational Guidelines was adopted with 30 paragraphs.\n\nThe World Heritage Committee, the main body responsible for the Implementation of the World Heritage Convention, has revised its text ever since adding paragraphs updating it with new concepts, knowledge or experiences. \n\nThe 2011 Operational Guidelines is the latest version dating from November 2011 and available in English, French, Portuguese and Spanish. A revised Draft dating from February 2011 with limited distribution is available online.\n\nThe 2011 version of the Operational Guidelines contains two hundred and ninety paragraphs which reflect the aim of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Protection of the Cultural and Natural Heritage to further facilitate the Implementation of the 1972 Convention. \n\nThe key users of the guidelines are not only the signatory nations. (States Parties to the 1972 Convention) The Secretariat of the World Heritage Committee based at the World Heritage Centre in Paris, the Advisory Bodies, site managers, stakeholders and partners all active in the protection of World Heritage properties are also invited to make usage of the Operational Guidelines.\n\nThe first chapter of the Operational Guidelines aims to facilitate the implementation of the 1972 World Heritage Convention. The major goals and procedure of the Convention are given reflecting certain articles of the Convention in a more detailed explanation. \n\nThe main bodies of the 1972 Convention i.e. the General Assembly, the World Heritage Committee, the Secretariat, the Advisory Bodies IUCN, ICOMOS, ICCROM are presented in detail precising their role, tasks, specific responsibilities, moreover meeting sessions, term of office, contact informations etc. A list of functions of the World Heritage Committee in cooperation with the States Parties is provided. Most functions derives from Articles 11(2+4+7), Article 13(6), Article 21(1+3) and Article 29(3) of the World Heritage Convention.\n\nIn general the overall aim of the Convention and its Guidelines is to safeguard heritage of universal value for future generations. It is to give a guidance on how properties can be inscribed on the World Heritage List or/and the List of World Heritage in Danger if the properties are facing serious dangers and are in need of emergency inscription. The Birthplace of Jesus: Church of the Nativity and the Pilgrimage Route, Bethlehem were thus inscribed in 2012. \n\nFor the purpose of facilitating the nomination process for properties considered to be of universal value, World Heritage is defined so as to categorize heritage into cultural, natural, and mixed sites to be handled specifically. \nOther specific types of Heritage like e.g. Cultural landscape is a category of heritage acknowledged only since 1992 out of the need to recognize and protect the \"combined work of man and nature\". \n\nAll informations consisting the World Heritage List and the way to it is to be found in Chapter 2.\n\nBefore properties can be proposed for inscription as a World Heritage Site, they must be on the tentative lists of the States Parties. The properties must be of Outstanding Universal Value (OUV) which means \"cultural and/or natural significance which is so exceptional as to transcend national boundaries and to be of common importance for present and future generations of all humanity\". There are ten criteria for the assessment of OUV. Criteria (i)-(vi) for cultural heritage, (vii)-(x) for natural heritage. Properties nominated under criteria (i) to (vi)- cultural Heritage - must fulfill the conditions of authenticity i.e. originality in form and design, materials, use and function etc. Cultural and natural properties must satisfy the conditions of integrity i.e. wholeness, intactness. \n\nThe term OUV is used throughout the World Heritage Convention but only defined and explained in detail in the Operational Guidelines from paragraphs 79-95. \n\nThe protection and management systems should be in place to ensure that the OUV is kept and the Heritage is passed to future generations.\n\nThe Operational Guidelines outlines the importance of participation of community and a wide range of stakeholders in the nomination process. It informs about the sources for help and guidance throughout the nomination process.(Chapter 3) \n\nFurthermore, detailed information is given for the inscription requirements for different types of properties. The nomination format Annex 5 must be used. The nomination file must be sent to the World Heritage Centre. The specific dates for submission and further processes and procedure for registration are also clarified. A nomination can be withdrawn any time prior to the Committee annual session in which nomination of properties take place. \n\nThe World Heritage Committee decides for inscription of a property by adopting the Statement of OUV. (paragraph 154-157) If the decision is not to inscribe, the property may not be presented again. When additional information is needed the nomination will be referred (para 159) or deferred (para 160) for more in depth assessment or study. \n\nThe Guidelines also reveal when conditions for deletion (Chapter IV.C ) of a World Heritage Site apply. e.g. Dresden Elbe Valley, and what steps are to be taken to ensure for the long-term protection and conservation of UNESCO sites.\n\nTo make sure that a World Heritage Site is protected and transmitted to future generations, the Operational Guidelines give directions to a more effective long-term conservation system i.e. a periodic reporting (Chapter 5 The World Heritage Committee has adopted the Format and Explanatory Notes to be found in Annex 7. State Parties are invited to submit Periodic reports every six years. The World Heritage Committee following the table set in paragraph 203 C will examine the reports.\nThe format consists of two Sections. Section I refers to the legislative and administrative provisions while section II refers to the state of conservation of specific World Heritage properties located on the territory of the State Party concerned. The address of the UNESCO World Heritage Centre for report submission can be found in Paragraph 207.\n\n\nAll the above documents are annexed at the end of the Operational Guidelines\n\n"}
{"id": "39018678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39018678", "title": "Pioneers in Engineering", "text": "Pioneers in Engineering\n\nPioneers in Engineering (PiE) is a student-run organization that promotes the study of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, collectively known as STEM fields. The organization was established in 2008 as a non-profit corporation by University of California, Berkeley student, Xiao-Yu Fu. The University provides training and mentorship opportunities for local high school students to improve their technological skills, by participating in a robotics competition, during which each student team designs, builds, and programs functional robots. Since 2008, over 20 schools have participated in the program.\n\nPioneers in Engineering was founded in 2008 by University of California, Berkeley student and Tau Beta Pi member, Xiao-Yu Fu. The organization's office is in UC Berkeley's O'Brien Hall. Staff members, including University of California undergraduates and graduates, design and assemble robotics starter kits for the competition, develop mentors for the program, and oversee public relations and internal communications. , the organization has expanded to include 106 staff members.\n\nIn preparation for the annual competition, robotic kits are distributed to groups of high schools students, who are paired with undergraduate mentors who assist the teams during the competition. A final tournament is held at the end of the season, allowing the student teams to reveal their work, for which awards are presented.\n"}
{"id": "12833993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12833993", "title": "Project Adventure", "text": "Project Adventure\n\nProject Adventure is an international nonprofit education organization based in Beverly, Massachusetts. The mission of Project Adventure is to provide leadership in the expansion of adventure-based experiential programming.\n\nIn 1970, these questions were beginning increasingly to show up in the conversations of educators interested in reform. The Outward Bound movement had stirred real interest in using a new set of methods. Jerry Pieh, the young principal of Hamilton-Wenham Jr./Sr. High School in Hamilton, Massachusetts was one of those asking such questions. As a young graduate student of education, Jerry helped his father, Bob Pieh, start the Minnesota Outward Bound School in 1962, and shared in the excitement of those early years. This experience gave Jerry a strong appreciation for the power of the Outward Bound approach. As principal of Hamilton-Wenham Jr./Sr. High, Jerry was in a position to examine those questions in a practical way. He and a colleague, Gary Baker, wrote a three-year development proposal to the federal Office of Education that would try to answer the question of how to mainstream the Outward Bound process into a secondary public school setting. He called the new program Project Adventure.\n\nIn attempting to bring Outward Bound strategies to a school setting, Jerry Pieh was returning to the basic roots of Outward Bound. The founder of Outward Bound, Dr. Kurt Hahn, was foremost an educator with roots in the classical private schools of Germany and Britain. Dr. Hahn felt that the classical school curriculum was not enough for the development of the whole child. His work during World War II with the Gordounstoun School in Scotland led to the establishment of the first Outward Bound School and later to the worldwide Outward Bound school movement. Hahn's original impulse, however, had been to work within the confines of a traditional school. Jerry Pieh sought in his Project Adventure program to bring these ideas back to the setting in which they were first practiced. This had been done before: Lincoln-Sudbury High School in Lincoln, Mass., had an Outward Bound type course in the late sixties. That particular program, however, was taught by Outward Bound staff, not by public school teachers. Such programs tended to be isolated from the standard curriculum and were almost totally dependent on teacher interest. Pieh wanted more than that. He sought to have the Outward Bound process become a part of the standard high school curriculum.\n\nThe funding of the Project Adventure grant in 1971 allowed Jerry to hire key staff with Outward Bound backgrounds and to begin the planning of a new curriculum approach. Many teachers were involved in the planning of this grant and involved themselves in Outward Bound and other training experiences. Teachers, Project Adventure staff, and administrators then set to work writing and experimenting with curriculum. The largest component was focused on tenth-grade physical education, but English, history, science, theater arts, and counseling were also explored in the context of what came to be known as Adventure Activities.\n\nBob Lentz was the first Director of Project Adventure. Bob had been a teacher, a principal, and had worked at Outward Bound as director of their teacher training programs. Bob also had a deep understanding of the power of the experiential learning process. Here he describes one of his original insights on the effect of an experiential/internship program on students: \n\"We got back report after report on these kids, about what a lively, alert, intelligent, responsible student this is. And you would visit the student on his project and my God, he was alive, and alert, and responsible. You'd look through his records and ask teachers about him and the answer you'd get was, 'wasn't alive, was lethargic, wasn't alert, wasn't responsible.' A kid would come back off his project- for a few days he'd be alive and alert, then his old behavior would come back. That simply said to me, 'we're missing some vital things here.\"'\n\nBob found in the Project Adventure curriculum a way to help students become more \"alive, alert, and responsible\" inside schools, and to institutionalize the process. As Josh Miner and Joe Boldt say in their history of Outward Bound in 1981, \"No other innovative educational proposal spinning off from Outward Bound has enjoyed a greater success with the educational establishment than Project Adventure.\"\nThe reason for this success was the willingness and ability of the Project and its staff, under Bob Lentz's leadership, to work with teachers and schools, empowering them to institutionalize the curriculum changes.\nThe nature of these curricula changes were creative and profound, yet not so dramatic that the teachers couldn't relate them to existing schedules and class objectives. The original Hamilton-Wenham model was an interdisciplinary concept that focused on the sophomore class. Every sophomore took a yearlong Project Adventure Physical Education class that went through a sequence of innovative warm-ups, trust-building exercises, initiative problems, and low and high ropes course elements. Two basic goals were constantly sought and reinforced: that the students as a group would learn to solve problems more creatively and efficiently, and that individuals and the group as a whole would learn to overcome preconceived barriers to their agreed upon objectives. Concurrently, the curricula in the sophomores'\nEnglish, Social Studies and Biology classes had units written by their teachers that reinforced the same goals in pursuit of traditional academic course objectives. For example, a student may have learned that the value of planning to use the resources of the group, and keeping a watchful eye on the time allotted for the task, were both necessary to the successful accomplishment of an initiative problem. In Biology class, the same student may have put both of those learnings into use again as she planned how her learning group would gather data for their investigation of the freshwater swamp behind the high school. The student would finally participate in the adventurous \"Swamp Walk\" where her data-gathering role in the small cooperative learning group of her class would have been negotiated before the trip. Later, the students would use class time to work in groups to prepare the report.\n\nOther classes would have similar experiential units using cooperative group strategies. Two- to three-day camping trips, which used the environment of the campsite to learn course objectives, were valuable as peak experiences where students put it all together. For example, the annual trip to Arcadia National Park, in Maine, allowed the Biology students to gather specimens for their saltwater tide pool unit. The Hahn service ethic was honored and fused with learning objectives in cross-age tutoring projects, recycling projects, and other activities done for credited learning classes coordinated by PA staff.\n\nDuring the second and third year of the grant, the program was submitted to a rigorous evaluation by one of the full-time staff members, Mary Smith. Finished during the third year of the program, 1974, the evaluation covered the full sophomore class that took the program each year: 224 in 1971, and 231 in 1972. Six instruments were administered pre- and post-program application. The instruments were the\nTennessee Self- Concept Scale, the School Climate Survey (based on David McClelland's Classroom Climate Survey), and two different kinds of student survey, the AAHPERD physical fitness test, and the\nRotter Scale of Internal vs. External Control. \nThe specific goals of the evaluation were as follows:\n• To improve self-concept, confidence, and sense of competence among participants \n• To increase psychomotor skills especially in the areas of balance and coordination \n• To overcome pervasive passivity, apathy, and noninvolvement among students.\n\nThe full evaluation report showed strong positive results with statistically significant changes on the Tennessee and the Rotter and consistently strong qualitative data. \"Qualitative data\" is the evaluation term for those individual reports that come from various types of participants. The following statement is from the qualitative write-up section of the 1974 report: \" ... not as shy as I used to be but I am still quite shy. Have stayed after school more to get involved in other things. Got up enough courage to stand in front of about 20 sixth grade kids and conduct a lesson.\" The change in self-concept that the evaluation indicates somehow makes more sense through this girl's comments than through the dry numbers. This particular comment, from what might be termed a reluctant participant in the P.E. component, demonstrates the type of carryover in \"involvement\" and \"courage,\" to use the girl's own words. We have found this t9 be typical of an average student's participation.\n\nThe strong evaluation results were responsible for the awarding in 1974, by the federal Office of Education, of National Demonstration School Status and subsequent National Diffusion Network Model program status and funding for dissemination. The National Diffusion Network (NON) was a new Office of Education program, founded on the belief that excellent programs that had had a rigorous evaluation should be shared nationally, with the original teachers of the new program sharing their methods directly with other teachers. From 1974 to 1981, the Hamilton-Wenham School District received a Dissemination grant each year from the NDN to subsidize the adoption of the PA model by other schools on a nationwide basis. As Director of the PA dissemination effort for the Hamilton-Wenham Schools, Bob Lentz each year set a goal of how many adoptions were likely to occur and how they were to happen.\n\nIt is no exaggeration to state that the NDN years literally put Project Adventure on the map. Interest in the PA program was strong anyway, and with a nationally based program with assistance offices and some funding available in each state, the disseminating of the PA model was made much easier. The \"adoption process,\" as the NDN language put it, happened in many different fashions. A typical adoption\npath would be as follows: a teacher would hear of a great new program (PA) from a friend or at a convention. The teacher would call PA and learn about the NDN and about PA workshops offered. The teacher would convince her administrator to contact the nearest NDN State Facilitator's office and apply for a grant. The teacher, and perhaps several associates, would take a five-day PA workshop in either the P.E. or Academic model. If a ropes course was necessary, PA staff would construct it on site, usually partially funded by the NDN. Follow up assistance and training would occur over the next year. By 1980, over 400 schools in most of the states of the country had adopted at least one component (Academic or Physical Education) of the original PA program at Hamilton-Wenham.\n\nInvolvement in the NDN process required that the PA staff be a bit more accountable and rigorous in the spreading of the PA model than they otherwise might have been. Follow-up surveys, tracking of the adoption numbers, tracking of the key elements in place at each site, evaluation of workshops, and a review of dissemination strategies and efforts that had and had not worked were required on annual reports for funding extensions. The key elements concept was especially helpful. The idea was to identify what elements of the original adoption were responsible for the significant evaluation results, and to be able to target the trainings of new teachers and staff at adopter sites so that the evaluation results could, in principle, be replicated. The key elements checklist was then available to a state facilitator, or anyone, who could visit an adopter and see what was occurring or not. The original Hamilton-Wenham program had been a large and complex effort and most schools would never reach that level of adoption. A variation of the key elements checklist as devised by Bob and his staff is still used today by the PA staff. It is a valuable teaching tool and vehicle to think about what it really means when we say \"adopt the program.\"\n\nThe potential for using Project Adventure activities with special needs populations of schools has always been recognized by the PA staff. Self-concept improvement is basic to the needs of most special needs students. Work with these students was not a first priority, however, as the PA model was intended to be a comprehensive school model affecting all students. But there was significant work during the early years in two ways: first was the Action Seminar at Hamilton-Wenham Regional High School, an interdisciplinary four-period class which drew on a wide mixture of students (outlined under the same title in the Project Adventure book Teaching Through Adventure). This class was taught by PA staff members Jim Schoel and Steve Webster. The students participated in Adventure activities, group construction and craft projects, and community service. No formal assessment of the students prior to entry was made, but quiet referrals ensured that half the students were experiencing trouble in school and required an alternative form of instruction. The Action Seminar concept was later carried into the Gloucester Public Schools where it was incorporated as the Gloucester Museum School, and later as Project Alliance.\n\nThe second expression of Adventure Counseling was an outpatient therapy group at the Addison Gilbert Hospital, Gloucester, Mass. Beginning in 1974, Paul Radcliffe, a PA-trained school psychologist working under the supervision of Dr. Phil Cutter, teamed-up with Mary Smith, a PA staff member, to conduct a weekly two-hour Adventure group. The hospital therapy group concept, with its intake and consultation process, was subsequently incorporated into the Gloucester Public School's psychological services as the Learning Activities Group. The development of the Adventure Based Counseling (ABC) process into a curriculum equivalent to the earlier interdisciplinary work at Hamilton-Wenham, took place with the funding of a Massachusetts State Department of Education grant in 1980-1983. Paul Radcliffe and Bill Cuff worked with personnel from Gloucester, Hamilton-Wenham, and Manchester, Mass. to refine the process of intake, grouping, staffing, activities selection, and staff training. This development grant was significant in that it put PA work with special needs students on the same footing as the original PA work. The evaluation was extensive (three systems over two years) and students again showed significant gains on the Tennessee. On the basis of the evaluation, the Massachusetts State Department of Education awarded the program validation as a State Model Program. The development of the ABC model and its formal evaluation really accelerated a trend that had existed in seed form from the beginning. The NDN had encouraged the dissemination of the PA model beyond schools into all types of educational service providers, the bureaucratic term for camps, youth centers, clinics, and any place where an educational function was occurring. The first Adventure Based Counseling Workshop was offered in May 1979, and the response was strong with over thirty persons attending the four-day workshop. Persons from residential clinics and hospitals, therapeutic camps, and drug treatment centers attended, as well as school counselors, psychologists, and alternative school teachers. The adapting of ABC activities at all these sites continued after the workshop, and movement of PA outreach into these types of organizations increased.\n\nI first met Bob Lentz in the fall of 1970 when Jim Schoel, one of the original four PA staff, introduced me to him. Jim was one of my instructors on an Outward Bound Teacher Practicum course run by the Hurricane Island School out of Bartlett's Island, Maine, the preceding summer. As a Social Studies teacher and Director of an Experiential Education program at the neighboring Manchester Schools, I worked closely with both Jim and Bob through the seventies organizing Adventure-type programs in both the Manchester and Gloucester schools. The Adventure work was involving, frustrating, and exciting; often all at the same time. When we started an early ABC group in Manchester for kids in difficulty in the junior High, I had some of my most meaningful teaching times. In late 1979, Jim, Bob, Paul Radcliffe, and I began meeting to write a grant to develop and refine the ABC model. I enjoyed the challenge of writing the grant and was intrigued by the possibilities of helping PA grow. I applied for a leave in early 1980 and Bob and I agreed to terms of employment.\n\nIn the spring of 1980, Bob Lentz announced that he was resigning as Director to assume the principalship of Groves High School in Birmingham, Michigan. After nearly ten years with Project Adventure at Hamilton-Wenham, Bob was ready for a new challenge. The chance to influence change in a public school in the position that research showed had the most direct influence, the principalship, was just such a challenge. He left Project Adventure in good shape, with a new NDN cycle of funding, the good will of the host school system, a strong reputation for quality, a group of experienced key staff, and a system of helping a complex program adoption process happen with minimal problems. Most importantly, he left with a feeling of accomplishment because the original goal of devising a system to mainstream the goals of Outward Bound into schools had been advanced significantly. Not that there wasn't plenty of work left to do, he told us.\n\nKarl Rohnke assumed the Director's position after Bob left. Karl had been with PA since its start and in many ways was the most known staff member. As an author of the PA text, Cowstails and Cobras, Karl brought to the many readers of that book a real hands-on understanding of the techniques, methods, and spirit necessary to implement the Physical Education curriculum started at Hamilton-Wenham.\nKarl's creative abilities guided the evolution of the Ropes Course elements and the games, stunts, and initiatives that were the core of the curriculum. Karl's ability to play and have obvious fun in a workshop was invaluable modeling for the teachers and staff being trained. Karl enjoyed using these strengths and continued as Director to construct courses, lead workshops, and write up new curriculum ideas. Karl was also decisive in letting us know what he did not like about his new role; thinking about budgets, organizational issues, and paperwork hassles. He and I agreed about a year after I started that l would assume the Director's role, and he would concentrate on what he did best, which was writing, researching new activities and ropes course elements, and leading workshops.\n\nThe early eighties were tough times for education of all sorts. The Reagan revolution was causing increasing cutbacks in school funding. The back-to-basics movement in public schools was increasing and giving people who wanted to get students to learn in new and creative ways a few more hurdles to jump. Yet in spite of the mood, the flow of people to PA training workshops and subsequent adoptions continued. The PA budget, as part of the Hamilton-Wenham schools in 1981-82, was $345,000, of which only $55,000 was federal money from the National Diffusion Network. The remainder was revenue from workshop fees, ropes course construction, and the sale of supplies and books. There were five full-time staff members in the Hamilton offices. In addition, Alan Sentkowski, who had been a biology teacher at Hamilton-Wenham and a key early staff member, started a satellite office in Savannah, Georgia.\n\nIn a series of meetings in 1981, we decided, along with the Hamilton-Wenham administrators, that it would be best if PA were to separate from the school. The growth of PA had surpassed expectations of the school, and while justly proud of the spread of their homegrown product, they felt it was best for the increasing growth to go on separately. The decision to separate seemed to fit for everyone as the PA staff sensed that PA had the potential to grow in new and important ways and that this could best be done independently. In the next year, an amiable agreement was drawn up, a Board of Directors chosen by Karl and me, and the formal incorporation of Project Adventure, Inc. as a non-profit 501-(c)(3) organization was made in September 1981. The articles of incorporation affirmed that the main purpose of the new corporation was the dissemination of PA programs. We chose to continue the basic direction under which we'd been operating at the school, but there was now a sense of anticipation: that new possibilities awaited.\n\nThe original grant in 1971 funded a staff of five to work closely with the Hamilton-Wenham staff. The staff of PA in 1981 was six full-time staff and an additional ten Certified Trainers. Certified Trainers were encouraged by the NON as teachers who could teach training workshops nationally with the same fidelity as original staff but with more cost effectiveness. The staff of PA in early 1989 was thirty-seven full-time persons, with a National Certified Trainer staff of fifty which includes facilitators with expertise and practical experience in all workshop areas. The growth since separation has been continuous with an increase in revenue each year averaging over 30%. The sources of revenue are in the same categories as they were in 1981 (now they are called revenue centers): workshops and training, catalog sales, ropes course construction, and grants and contracts for research purposes. The organization continues to serve schools who want to expand an existing program or start a new one. The momentum of word-of-mouth advertising of the existing installed base of PA school programs remains strong. As teachers and administrators moved on to new jobs, they often brought their favorite program with them. Both Jerry Pieh, as Headmaster of Milton Academy, and Bob Lentz, as principal of Groves High, had PA help them implement a program. Important new work was also done in urban schools in Cambridge, Savannah, Pittsburgh, Columbus, and New York as the ability of PA activities to motivate for achievement and develop group cooperation proved effective for the multi-ethnic populations of urban schools.\n\nAlthough work with schools continued to grow, the main reason for the growth of PA was the staff's ability to work with a variety of organizations other than schools and to help them customize programs\nfor their own needs. Through the eighties, PA staff worked with camps, youth agencies such as the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, therapeutic agencies, drug and alcohol treatment centers, psychiatric hospitals, colleges, conference centers, corporate training centers, children's homes, job training centers, outdoor education centers, and state agencies. Throughout this expansion, the continuity of the early training models served as a starting point for new work, and the in-house expertise of the organization on tracting with PA was used to plan a customized program. While the range of groups served by PA seems wide, the trainings have followed four generic models:\n• Adventure Programming- for Physical Education and Recreation programs\n• Adventure Based Counseling- for therapeutic programs \n• Academic Programming- for classroom academic programs\n• Staff Development Programming- for educational and corporate adult training needs.\n\nProject Adventure has an entry-level workshop in each area that uses essentially the same activity base with some modifications. Each workshop, however, is taught by PA staff or certified trainers who have experience and expertise in the program area, which the workshop is addressing. By the end of each four to five-day workshop, the participant is ready to design a more expansive program, and often, with more specified training, ready to start a modest program in his/her area.\n\nOne of the key supports to the growth of PA in the eighties was the Southern office. Alan Sentkowski began the office at an outdoor education center in Savannah in 1980. The office moved to Atlanta in 1984 to take advantage of the city's central location. One of the important groups being served by the Southern office in 1984 was the Georgia Department of Youth Services. Cindy Simpson, a school psychologist who attended a PA workshop in 1981, had gone on to develop a community-based six-week program for juvenile offenders in the state. Working closely with Juvenile Judge Virgil Costley of Covington,\nCindy had developed a program that used a tightly structured Adventure Based Counseling approach and infused it with academic support, parent counseling, and career counseling. An evaluation of the program from 1983 to 1986 by the Georgia DYS, showed that 94% of the youths that started the program finished and that the recidivism rate was 15% for the three years after the program.\n\nIn 1984, Cindy joined Alan Sentkowski in the Atlanta office and teamed up with Staff Associate John Call who coordinated construction and technical trainings. The Atlanta office relocation proved to be a good decision as the small staff began to experience a rapid increase in the demand for PA services soon after the move was made. Alan left PA in June 1985 to pursue other interests, and Cindy took over the leadership role. The growth in staff and services rendered has continued and accelerated under Cindy's leadership. The development of innovative, community-based direct service models such as Challenge has become a research and development specialty of the Southern office. An alternative school model and a jobs training model were successfully started.\n\nBy 1989, the Southern office had sixteen staff and accounted for about one-third of the total PA budget. All of the functions of the Hamilton office were carried on in the Southern office with the exception of the catalog sale of ropes course equipment and PA publications. The growth was made easier by the move of the office in the summer of 1988 to a new site in Covington, thirty miles southeast of Atlanta. With the help of Judge Costley and Pierce Cline, another member of an advisory board that PA had formed for the Southern office, Cindy managed to acquire an unoccupied former Elks Club lodge on a five-acre pond. Located on a total of seventy acres, the 12,000 square foot building was renovated and housed the Atlanta-based PA staff and programs by the fall of 1988. \nTherapeutic Program Growth\n\nThe history of PA clearly shows that as the organization works with client organizations to help them implement a PA program, the resulting customizing process often breaks new ground. The unique issues and needs of the client result in modifications and new designs of existing PA models that often can then be used by other organizations of a similar type. This process has clearly been at work in the dissemination of the ABC model. Therapeutic institutions, ranging from public schools to therapeutic camps, to counseling centers, to residential treatment facilities and psychiatric hospitals implemented a variety of the ABC model in the eighties.\n\nOne of the more important early ABC adoptions came as a result of our work with The Institute of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. In 1981 four staff of the Therapeutic Recreation department, led by Rick Thomas, attended an ABC workshop in Hamilton. A grant by a local benefactor to the hospital, one of the oldest and most respected psychiatric institutions in the country, had paid for the training and later for the ropes course that we constructed on the rolling grounds of the hospital. Under the leadership of Rick, who worked closely with PA staff Paul Radcliffe and Jim Schoel, The Institute began to use the ABC model with a short-term residential adolescent group. The hospital's evaluations of patients' progress in the program were excellent. The Therapeutic Recreation Department has worked with the clinical staff of the hospital to expand the program to other groups including mixed diagnosis adult treatment groups, drug and alcohol groups, and eating disorder groups. The schedules and length of the ABC activities in these groups are somewhat different, but they all occur on the grounds of the hospital and often include the ropes course.\n\nRick Thomas has some interesting comments on why the ABC model works so well in the hospital setting:\n\"We want to help patients be more independent, decrease their feelings of helplessness, and get away from the idea that someone else has the secrets about their well-being and who they are. We try to educate patients about their strengths, not looking for pathology. The people we see need experience in doing differently, to experience themselves as different. They're not ready for the insight they need to be brought up to another level before they acquire that. They need to learn by doing first. They simply do not have the ability for abstract thinking. Generally, if they do abstract, it is merely a form of intellectualization, with few feelings attached. As Glasser says, 'Act differently, even if you don't feel differently.\"'\n\nRick's comments help explain the power of the ABC model to help the psychiatric patient. The eighties saw PA work with hospitals and other residential care facilities on an increasing basis. By 1989, we had helped over 100 hospitals implement a variety of the ABC program. The use of an integrated Adventure-based hospital program was becoming more widely accepted in the psychiatric field by the end of the eighties, and the increased refinement of the program was proceeding rapidly. Cindy Simpson and Paul Radcliffe teamed up to lead PA's efforts in this emerging area.\n\nThe need for a PA text for the emerging ABC field became critical as the number of trainings and requests for assistance increased in the early eighties. In 1985, we received notice that the Culpeper Foundation of New York City had funded our proposal to research and write a new text for the ABC field. The book was written in a collaborative effort with Jim Schoel assuming the lead author position and Paul Radcliffe and me assisting. Jim had one full year funded by the grant to research, interview, and write. It took another unfunded year of work by the three of us to complete the book, but when it was finished, we were pleased with the result. With Islands of Healing, we had a text to guide all those workshop participants at the more than 300 institutions that had an ABC model and to share the results of more than a decade of development work with others in the field. It was a fitting complement to Cowstails and Cobras and other PA texts, and should, we thought, more firmly establish the credibility of the model for all practitioners.\n\nIn the late-seventies, Karl Rohnke and Bob Lentz taught courses at Boston University in Adventure Education and met faculty member Tony Langston. They discussed and planned how to use the PA activities base with the business school classes with which Tony was beginning to work. Tony went on to start a corporate training program at BU. The new program, Executive Challenge, found a good reception in the high tech clients of the Route 128 area in the late seventies and quickly became the leader in this new way to work with corporate training: non-wilderness trainings using the range of Initiatives and Ropes Course elements. Other consultants began to hear of the success of the Executive Challenge model and began to approach PA for assistance in developing programs. In 1983, as a result of these inquiries, we began to think seriously about this emerging area, and how it could fit into our organization.\n\nIn the winter of 1984, we received a call from a Human Resource group at Digital Equipment Corporation. They had heard about our programs and wanted us to design a team-building workshop for a work group. Paul Radcliffe and I worked with the team leader to design a four-day workshop. The result was a great success from the work team's viewpoint. A three-month follow-up visit on-site revealed improved communication, levels of trust, and an ability to take an initiative involving risk with more confidence. A twenty-minute video was produced with Digital's help and was designed for both Digital and P A use.\nWe worked with other Digital groups as a result of this initial effort and decided that we should develop the capability to do corporate training. In 1985, Ann Smolowe joined PA to help develop and market a PA corporate model. Ann had a varied background that included business school, three years working for the American Stock Exchange, and a complete thru-hike of the Appalachian Trail. Most importantly, she had a strong desire to bring innovative outdoor training to the corporate setting. Our mutual goal was to develop an Adventure-based staff development model, which would become the foundation for our Train-the-Trainer program. In addition, we hoped to be able to generate revenue from our direct service efforts with companies to help our overall mission in other areas.\n\nBy 1989, we had developed a significant track record with a number of Fortune 500 Companies as well as smaller firms. We developed customized training around the themes of encouraging innovation, culture change initiatives, multi-skill retraining, leadership, risk-taking motivation, as well a more standard team-building option. Our overall mission and the ability to train others helped define some of our training. Frank Iarossi, President of Exxon Shipping in Houston had heard Elizabeth Ross-Kanter of the Harvard Business School expound on the need for companies to master change, and became convinced of the need for his company to begin changing its culture. We contracted with Exxon Shipping in 1987 to train teams of company facilitators, who in turn led all 1000 employees through a one-day team building and skill training that was part of a larger week-long training for all employees, designed by an outside consulting firm. Exxon Shipping was on the way to becoming less hierarchical, less rigid, more able to identify problems earlier and work toward their resolution. In a modern technological environment, the supertanker captain no longer had all the answers or even knowledge about what many of the problems were. Specialization of knowledge and skills made flexible work team strategies a must.\n\nInitiatives, and Ropes Course Elements All the program models in the world wouldn't work if we did not have an effective arsenal of activities that could be used to accomplish the program aims. The games, prop and non-prop Initiatives, and Challenge Ropes Course elements that the original staff modified and created for the short, SO-minute P.E. sessions at Hamilton-Wenham, were responsible for the ability of all the subsequent programs to be able to work on-site, indoors if necessary, and to imbue almost any training curriculum with the aims and energy of the PA learning goals. The constant renewing of this activity base and the refinement of the skills training and assessment methods that were necessary as the numbers of adoption sites and participants mushroomed, were two key tasks that have helped sustain PA's growth.\n\nOne of Karl's strengths is his ability to create new activities and the enjoyment he gets from doing so. An environment of creativity, of pushing for the new modification or of putting together two previously separate things, has been important to renewing our base. Karl also works easily with others and likes to give them liberal credit, always important in developing new ideas and activities. PA now has a fifty-element repertoire of Ropes Course elements, including the following notable PA inventions: Wild Woosey, Mohawk Walk, Prouty's Landing, Pamper Pole, Hickory jump, Seagull Landing, and the Flying Squirrel. The first indoor elements were built in the Newburyport, Mass. gym in 1972, and by 1985 every outdoor element had been constructed in some sort of indoor environment. The refinement of the technology and equipment for the Ropes Course includes these innovations: galvanized cable, through-bolting, strand vises, telephone poles and accompanying guy technology, custom made pulley systems for the belay cable and for the Zip Wire. The invention of new activities was even more pronounced in the Initiative and game area, and the publication of Silver Bullets: A Guide to Initiative Problems and Adventure Games was a notable benchmark for the organization. The possibilities continue to expand, as PA has become a gathering point for others' ideas in this area.\n\nThe direct construction of ropes course elements for others was a service of PA as early as 1972 when Karl built the first PA indoor climbing wall for Newburyport High School. Since then the direct construction of elements for others has become one of the PA's key services. PA will build over 100 courses this year and will provide repair and safety check services at many more. Located all over the states and this year in Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Europe, these 100 will join the approximately 1000 courses PA has constructed since it began. PA runs a catalog supply service for materials to construct courses and to resupply the existing courses with rope and other equipment. One of the more recent developments in the way we help people construct has been the creation of the package, Challenge By Choice. This is a manual with an accompanying two-hour videotape and telephone support time that gives a willing person the instructions necessary to construct a low ropes course. Cowstails and Cobras had construction information of an informal type in several chapters, but by the mid-eighties, the information was out of date. Construction help is now available from PA only through Challenge By Choice or direct service by P A staff. PA is the clear leader in the field of Initiative and Ropes Course design and construction; we remain committed to continuous improvement in both areas.\n\nThe safety of the activity base had always been important. But as the numbers of programs grew, questions on safety and liability issues came more frequently. The second level workshop, Advanced Skills, and Standards, first designed and taught by Steve Webster in 1982. was a successful offering that focused on Ropes Course technical skills, program management, design issues, and possible rescue techniques. In 1981, and later in 1986, we conducted a survey of adopting sites and published what we called the Ten- and Fifteen-Year Safety Studies. Both showed a level of accidents, defined as a day out of school or work through an injury, at a rate below that of the standard public school P.E. program. In addition, there were no reported accidents of the severely disabling variety that were everyone's concern. When the field of outdoor Adventure experienced the general liability crisis of 1985-87 with particular hardness, we were able, with the help of these studies, to forestall many programs from losing insurance. But the problem of obtaining insurance was difficult for some areas of the country. In 1987, with the help of a new site-specific and voluntary Accreditation Program, we were able to convince a top rated insurance company to offer liability insurance for all accredited programs. A new generic Safety Manual for Ropes Courses and Initiatives was recently written by Steve Webster. The Accreditation Program uses the manual as a guideline for acceptable technical skills and safety issues.\n\nIn 1985, at the urging of a key PA Board member, we worked with an outside consultant to implement a long-range planning process for PA. We assessed strengths and weaknesses, looked at our mission, set objectives, and designed strategies and action plans to make the objectives happen. After some discussion, we arrived at this statement of our mission:\n\n\"The mission of Project Adventure, Inc. is to be the leading organization helping others use Adventure Education as a catalyst for personal/professional growth and change.\"\n\nThe key phrase is \"helping others use.\" By this we mean that we consult, train, and empower others to start, maintain and improve PA program models that use our program base of games, Initiatives, and Ropes Course elements. Direct service, such as our existing programs with youth-at-risk, schools, and corporate groups will continue to grow and be a source of important research and development opportunities, and revenue stability. But the primary focus of the organization is to help other organizations use PA models to promote growth and change in their students, clients, and organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2999180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2999180", "title": "Psychology, philosophy and physiology", "text": "Psychology, philosophy and physiology\n\nPsychology, philosophy and physiology (PPP) was a degree at the University of Oxford. It was Oxford's\nfirst psychology degree, beginning in 1947, but admitted its last students in October 2010. It has been, in part, replaced by philosophy, psychology and linguistics (PPL, in which students usually study two of three subjects).\n\nPPP covered the study of thought and behaviour from the differing points of view of psychology, physiology and philosophy. Psychology includes social interaction, learning, child development, mental illness and information processing. Physiology considers the organization of the brain and body of mammals and humans, from the molecular level to the organism as a whole. Philosophy is concerned with ethics, knowledge, the mind, etc.\n"}
{"id": "50228362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50228362", "title": "Quaver's Marvelous World of Music", "text": "Quaver's Marvelous World of Music\n\nQuaver's Marvelous World of Music, commonly referred to on site as \"Quaver\", \"Quaver Music\", and \"Quaver's World\" is an educational music web site.\n\nThe site was founded by David V. Mastran and Graham Hepburn.\n\nThe site offers teaching tools for children about basic music knowledge. Teachers can use features such as \"Class Play\" to practice music with students or \"Animated Score\" for interactive music experience. Over 30 videos on music topics can be viewed, and contain great detail. Teachers can assess over 1,000 songs to practice music. Students can access a point and click game through going on the main site. This game features rooms that teach students about music with multiple games inside of every room. The site has earned many awards, mostly for being a good music site for young students.\n\n"}
{"id": "58945004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58945004", "title": "Rajadurai Foundation", "text": "Rajadurai Foundation\n\nRajadurai Foundation was established in 2009 by Mylaudy Dr. S. Rajadurai, the mission of which is to build human potential through advancement of professional aspiration, academic scholarship, protection of environment and societies and gift real hope through all inclusive partnership and spirituality.\n\nRajadurai Foundation conducts several mentorship programs in various institutions on the global trends of the automotive industries and inculcated the interest of automotive engineering in the minds of thousands of students such as Hindustan University, Dr. Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology, Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, BS Abdur Rahman University, Loyola Institute of Technology and Science. Dr. Rajadurai is the Fellow of the Society of Automotive Engineering (SAE) International. He inaugurated SAE India Collegiate club to bring International Standard and enhance the formal education & professional development of students in various colleges including Annai Vailankanni College of Engineering. He also inaugurated Industry Institute Interaction Cell in Annai Vailankanni College of Engineering to establish purposeful interaction between industry & institution and to assess the Scientific and Technological scenario in order to translate it into action. Rajadurai Foundation established a merit award in Loyola college for the best student of M.Sc chemistry in the name of Rev. Fr. Sebastian Kalarickal S.J, to recognize his dedicated services to students from the year 2006. He instituted Gurusmrithi Award in 2006 in Mar Ivanios College to be given to the Best Student of M.Sc. Chemistry every year. \n\nRajadurai Foundation provides awareness education programs in order to develop clean and green environment and to achieve carbon neutral earth, Initiated and inaugurated Green Technology Centre in James Engineering College to motivate professors and students for a global approach to protect the environment from challenges such as acid rain, global warming, ozone depletion, rainforest deterioration, river contamination, sea level rise, accumulation of hazardous wastes, air pollution and over population, assisted SRM Institute of Science and Technology to develop  SAE BAJA Formula Race with CO reduction, also achieved Near Zero Emission and received National Award.\n"}
{"id": "11324007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324007", "title": "Randy Dellosa", "text": "Randy Dellosa\n\nRandy Misael Sebastian Dellosa, known as Doc Randy is a Filipino psychologist and psychiatrist.\n\nHe is life coach-psychotherapist of Filipino celebrities and was the resident psychiatrist in the Pinoy Big Brother, The Biggest Loser Pinoy Edition, Pinoy Dream Academy, Pinoy Fear Factor, and I Do (Philippine reality show) reality TV shows of ABS-CBN Network as well as game shows such as \"Deal or No Deal.\" He is also a frequent resource person on psychological topics in the news programs and documentary shows of GMA Network, TV5 (Philippines), and other networks. \n\nHe is the first and so far the only Filipino who is a psychiatrist (M.D.), a doctor of clinical psychology (Psy.D.), and an osteopath (DO-MTP) \n\nDellosa studied in Philippine educational and training institutions:\n\nHe received training in Gestalt Psychotherapy and in healing arts in Europe (Germany, France, Spain, Switzerland) and in Asia (India, Indonesia) under the Gestalt Education Network International.\n\nHe was awarded his Doctor of Psychology Degree (Psy.D.) from the University of Southern California where he was awarded scholarship, aside from graduating with academic honors (cum laude).\n\nDellosa has taught at the University of the Philippines, De La Salle University, and the Asian Theological Seminary. In these schools, he trained and supervised counselors, psychologists, and psychiatrists in the art of counseling and psychotherapy.\n\nPopularly known as a \"celebrity shrink\", Dellosa was a consultant for reality television shows, a resource person for talk shows, and a life coach-psychotherapist of celebrities in such fields as entertainment, politics, religion, arts, and sports.\n\nRandy has featured in Philippine periodicals such as \"Woman's Journal\", \"Men's Zone Magazine\", \"Kerygma Magazine\", \"Today\", \"Philippine Star\", \"Manila Bulletin\", \"Smart Parenting\", \"Manila Times\", \"Medical Observer\", \"Health and Family\", and \"Health Today\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17972072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17972072", "title": "Reach Out and Read", "text": "Reach Out and Read\n\nReach Out and Read (ROR) is an American non-profit organization that advocates for childhood literacy. ROR was founded in 1989 at Boston City Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, and was based on the premise to \"encourage parents to read regularly to their children and give them the tools (the books) to do so.\" The program was created as a solution to the growing literacy problem in the United States. ROR was founded by Pediatric physicians Barry Zuckerman and Robert Needlman as well as early childhood educator Kathleen Fitzgerald-Rice.\n\nSince its establishment, ROR has grown significantly. It began receiving funding from the United States Department of Education in 2001 and the structure and mission have since evolved into a national model. Endorsed by the American Academy of Pediatrics, ROR provides books for more than 3.8 million children and families in more than 4,500 clinics, health centers, and pediatric practices in the United States. The program distributes more than 6 million books annually. ROR has also spread its influence to include all fifty states of the United States, as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the United States Virgin Islands.\n\nSouthwest Human Development partnered with Reach Out and Read in 1997. In 2007, Reach Out and Read was awarded the UNESCO Confucius Prize for Literacy.\n\nROR seeks to encourage and enable parents to read to their children by offering them the skills and the tools to do so. At regular pediatric check-ups, ROR provides parents with books appropriate for children from six months to five years old, placing a special emphasis on economically disadvantaged children.\n\nROR makes literacy promotion a standard part of pediatric primary care, building upon the relationship between parents and health care providers. This pairing between pediatricians and parents works to ensure that children are instilled with a love of reading as well as a home library of their own. Clinics that are involved in the program frequently have waiting rooms set up to encourage reading as well, employing volunteer readers to model reading aloud. The organization encourages families to read together to promote early literacy skills so children may enter school prepared to succeed.\n\nSince ROR links health and literacy, doctors and nurses receive training as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "15422486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15422486", "title": "Reproductive justice", "text": "Reproductive justice\n\nReproductive justice is a concept that was brought about and turned into a movement by an activist group named SisterSong. They define reproductive justice as \" the human right to maintain personal bodily autonomy, have children, not have children, and parent the children we have in safe and sustainable communities.\" Reproductive justice emerged as an issue because lower-class women, women of color, and women of the LGBTQ+ community felt a sense of neglect in the women's rights movement. These women started voicing their want and need for reproductive justice in the 1990s, and became a more widely popularized concept among women's rights advocates in the early 2000s. Reproductive justice includes the reproductive right to have the choice of having an abortion, but it goes beyond the pro-choice movement by first acknowledging the fact that a woman can't exercise her reproductive rights if her other human rights are not being met. Reproductive justice activists advocate for other human rights including, but not limited to, immigrant rights, disability rights, and LGBTQ+ rights. \n\nThe term \"reproductive justice\" was coined by Loretta Ross, co-founder and National Coordinator of the SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective from 2005-2012. She defines reproductive justice as a framework created by activist women of color to address how race, gender, class, ability, nationality, and sexuality intersect. As a concept, reproductive justice was created by these activist women of color in SisterSong because they felt that the dominant paradigm of \"pro-choice\" did not meet their needs. They reported not being able to exercise reproductive choices as easily as their more privileged counterparts. For them, reproductive politics was not about choice, but about justice. Reproductive justice is based on the theory of intersectionality which states that people have different life experiences and opportunities based on how identity categories, such as race, class, gender, and sexuality, interact with each other. Reproductive justice explains how people oppressed by their intersectional identities also experience higher levels of reproductive oppression. This means that it is often harder for oppressed people to access healthcare because of factors such as education, income, geographic location, immigration status, and potential language barriers. Activist women of color created this framework because they felt they did not have any, or as much, choice as their privileged counterparts when it came to making decisions about women's healthcare.\n\nThis term gained traction in the early 1990s, especially after the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo, Egypt. At this conference, the Women of African Descent for Reproductive Justice (WADRJ) joined with organizations in the Global South to address poverty, women's reproduction, and underdevelopment. As explained below, these women felt like \"choice\" (as in \"pro-choice\") was an inadequate frame for them. They felt they did not even have the ability to make choices about their healthcare because of structural inequalities. This tension created the need for a new frame to meet their specific needs, reproductive justice. In addition to advocating, as do traditional reproductive rights platforms, for the access of women to birth control, reproductive justice provides a framework that focuses additional attention on the social, political, and economic inequalities among different communities that contribute to infringements of reproductive justice.\nThe paradigms that combine the empowerment of women with reproduction have since been categorized into three frameworks: reproductive health, reproductive rights, and reproductive justice. The reproductive health framework addresses inequalities in health services by advocating for the provision of services to historically under-served communities. The reproductive rights framework emphasizes the protection of an individual woman's legal right to reproductive health services, focusing on increasing access to contraception and keeping abortion legal. Finally, the reproductive justice framework utilizes an intersectional analysis of women's experiences and focuses on changing the structural inequalities that affect women's reproductive health and their ability to control their reproductive lives.\nReproductive justice is a critical, theoretical framework that was invented as a response to United States reproductive politics. The three core values of reproductive justice (RJ) are (1) the right to have a child, (2), the right to not have a child, and (3) the right to parent a child or children in safe and healthy environments.\n\nThe founders of the reproductive justice framework argued that it is \"purposefully controversial\" because it centralizes communities of color. Advocates state that centering these communities pushes back against the \"dehumanizing status quo of reproductive politics.\"\n\nReproductive justice is a lens used to address issues like abortion, contraception, immigration, welfare, HIV/AIDS, environmental justice, indigenous communities, and disability. It tries to make sense of community issues and issues that involve reproduction. This includes education, income, immigration status, disability, and sexual orientation because these factors may shape access to reproductive healthcare.\n\nAs such, Asian Communities for Reproductive Justice, recently renamed Forward Together, defines the concept as follows:\n\n\"Reproductive Justice is the complete physical, mental, spiritual, political, economic, and social well-being of women and girls, and will be achieved when women and girls have the economic, social, and political power and resources to make healthy decisions about our bodies, sexuality, and reproduction for ourselves, our families, and our communities in all areas of our lives.\"\n\nReproductive justice has expanded the pro-choice movement from a focus on abortion issues that marginalizes poor women and women of color to encompass a much broader scope of women's reproductive rights. Reproductive justice attempts to move women's reproductive rights past a legal and political debate to incorporate the economic, social and health factors that impact women's reproductive choices and decision-making ability. The reproductive justice movement, in its efforts to illuminate these issues, challenges the right to privacy framework established by \"Roe v. Wade\" that was predicated on the notion of \"choice\" in reproductive decision-making, and in effect turns the focus of reproductive decision-making away from one centered on civil rights toward that of human rights. The human rights approach of reproductive justice advocates for the ability of women to make decisions about their own reproduction and emphasizes the \"right\" of reproductive decision-making as a benefit afforded to all women regardless of their circumstances as opposed to the civil rights framework of choice that is connected to the possession of resources that influences the choices one has. As Rickie Solinger notes in \"Reproductive Politics: What Everyone Needs to Know,\" \"the term \"rights\" often refers to the privileges or benefits a person is entitled to and can exercise without special resources\", whereas the privacy framework established by \"Roe,\" and as interpreted by the Supreme Court in \"Maher v. Roe,\" holds that \"the state is not obligated to provide the means for women to realize their constitutionally protected rights, but only to refrain from putting any 'obstacles' in their 'path'\". The reproductive justice movement seeks to secure women's reproductive rights by attempting to abolish the civil rights foundation of a right to privacy created by \"Roe\" and that has restricted some women from receiving reproductive services because they lack the resources for a foundation of reproductive rights as human rights. In 2017, Loretta Ross along with Solinger wrote \"Reproductive Justice: An Introduction (Reproductive Justice: A New Vision for the 21st Century)\" detailing the many ways Reproductive Justice and Human Rights intersect with one another.\n\nRoots of the reproductive justice framework can be traced to the abortion debate in the United States and the 1973 \"Roe v. Wade\" Supreme Court decision. Many new reproductive health organizations for women of color such as the National Black Women's Health Project were created in the 1980s and 1990s and objected to the rhetoric employed by the mainstream reproductive rights movement to define these along the pro-choice and pro-life lines that figured in the abortion disputes. The new organizations felt that the term \"choice\" excluded minority women and \"masked the ways that laws, policies and public officials punish or reward the reproductive activity of different groups of women differently\". Activists for the rights of women of color subsequently expanded their attentions from a focus on unfair sterilization practices and high rates of teen pregnancy among women of color to include the promotion of a more inclusive platform to advance the rights of all women.\n\nThe concept of reproductive justice was articulated first in June 1994 at a national pro-choice conference by an informal Black Women's Caucus that met at the Illinois Pro-Choice Alliance in Chicago. This caucus preceded the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) that took place two months later. The ICPD produced the Cairo Programme of Action that identified reproductive health as a human right. After Cairo, the Black women promoting the reproductive justice framework sought to adapt to the United States' reproductive rights movement the human rights framework outlined by the ICPD and expanded the term \"reproductive justice\" originally defined as \"reproductive health integrated into social justice\" by using the moral, legal, and political language of human rights\n\nIn 1997, a cohort of groups that promote the rights of Native and women of color, some of which had been involved in organizing the Black Women's Caucus, organized together to form the SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Health Collective. SisterSong is the organization that coined reproductive justice as a term. Their website states that reproductive justice is a human right, is about access (not choice), and is about more than just abortion. They argue that reproductive justice can be achieved by examining power structures and intersectionality, joining together across identities and issues, and putting the most marginalized groups at the center of their advocacy.\n\nSisterSong spearheaded the push for a new, comprehensive reproductive justice movement as a more inclusive alternative to the \"divisive\" argument for women's rights that primarily emphasized access to contraception and the right to an abortion. The founders of SisterSong also felt that some of the pro-choice activists \"seemed to be more interested in population restrictions than in women's empowerment\". \n\nAs the collective became more organized, reproductive justice figured more prominently in the discussion of women's rights and empowerment. The 2003 SisterSong National Women of Color Reproductive Health and Sexual Rights Conference popularized the term and identified the concept as \"a unifying and popular framework\" among the various organizations that attended the conference. In 2004, Jael Silliman published the first book on reproductive justice, \"Undivided Rights: Women of Color Organizing for Reproductive Justice.\" Moving forward, reproductive justice groups modeled some of their rhetoric after Dr. George Tiller, a late-term abortion provider who was assassinated in his church in Wichita, Kansas, in 2009. He coined the phrase \"Trust Women\" which was used to promote abortion rights by arguing that women should be trusted to make their own decisions. \"Trust Women\" became the name of an organization and conference based on women's reproductive rights. Building on his legacy and the popularity of this phrase, SisterSong and reproductive justice advocates adopted a similar slogan, \"Trust Black Women.\" Similarly, the website, TrustBlackWomen.org, is based on reproductive justice advocacy. \n\nSince then, groups that promote women's rights such as the National Organization for Women and Planned Parenthood have increasingly used the language of reproductive justice for their own advocacy. The movement has become more mainstream as organizations such as the Law Students for Reproductive Justice that focus on the promotion of rights of all women have also become involved in this activism.\n\nAbortion discourse in the United States is often explained in terms of being \"pro-choice,\" i.e. in favor of abortion rights, or \"pro-life,\" i.e. favoring fetal development and the unborn child, and generally being opposed to abortion. Reproductive justice challenges the pro-choice/pro-life dichotomy. RJ understands \"choice\" as something that divides women in policy and practice because it assumes that all women have an equal ability to make the same choices. Therefore, \"choice\" ignores structural factors such as economic status, race, immigration state, etc. Some women's studies scholars like Greta Gaard argue that \"choice\" is a \"scheme of omission\" which means that it leaves many women out of the conversation, particular women of color, immigrant women, queer women, transgender women, etc. Structurally, these identities do not have the same degrees of choice when it comes to accessing reproductive care. Gaard argues that this further divides women according to class and race. This creates a need for a new frame that is more inclusive and reproductive justice is supposed to said frame.\n\nAs a framework, reproductive justice is said to be more expansive and inclusive than \"pro-choice.\" RJ includes community safety, violence, and the government's role in reproduction. The \"go-to\" or key example used to show how \"reproductive justice\" differs from \"pro-choice,\" is police brutality. The reproductive justice framework addresses community issues including the right to safety and to parent in safe environments whereas pro-choice typically does not. Therefore, police brutality is seen as a reproductive justice issue. The water crisis in Flint, Michigan, would also be considered a reproductive justice issue because this issue shapes the well-being and health of children and members of that community.\n\nReproductive justice advocates do not prefer choice as a term because it colloquially refers to a woman's right to choose abortion as guaranteed by Roe v. Wade (1973). RJ is about more than just abortion rights, which explains the need for new terminology. These advocates explain that reproductive health is about more than just abortion, especially for communities of color who have faced a history of forced sterilization and eugenic practices.\n\nA common misconception is that reproductive justice meant to replace the terms \"reproductive rights\" and/or \"reproductive health\". For reproductive justice advocates, it is not that one term is better than another term, but they do refer to different things. Reproductive justice as both a phrase and a concept is based on black women's voices and lives. It is based on movement-building. Reproductive rights refers to legal issues and reproductive health refers to services pertaining to reproduction.\n\nSince 1980, the number of women in prison has tripled, leading to a high incidence of serious health concerns, including HIV, Hepatitis C, and reproductive diseases. The rate of HIV is higher among women prisoners than men prisoners and can be as much as one hundred times higher among prisoners than in the general population, depending on the prison group. The trend towards longer and heavier sentences have also led to greater health concerns as many prisons offer little accessibility to adequate medical care. Also, prisons are increasingly being built on rural land, isolated from major resources for medical care. Two major areas of concern for reproductive justice in prisons lies in medical neglect in the form of little to no reproductive health care and nonconsensual prison intervention on a woman's right to reproduce.\n\nWomen in the criminal justice system tend to come from sectors of society with limited access to health care. Currently, there are few services offered to address this gender specific health disparity in the underserved communities. The time spent in prisons provides a unique opportunity to respond to health needs, particularly in reproductive health. A Rhode Island report showed that 84% had been sexually active within 3 months of their arrest while only 28% used contraception. Newly incarcerated women are at a higher risk of experiencing unintended pregnancies. Many of these pregnancies also become high risk due to lack of prenatal care services and drug use that leads to preterm deliveries, spontaneous abortions, low-birthweight infants, and preeclampsia. Also, many developing fetuses may be exposed to teratogenic medications during treatment as well as alcohol, causing fetal alcohol syndrome. Infants are twice as likely to die when mothers report that their pregnancies are unwanted in the first trimester.\n\nWhile it is unknown what percentage of incarcerated women engages in unprotected sex prior to incarceration, research has shown that providing emergency contraception may decrease the risk of unintended pregnancies. In a study conducted in San Francisco with women ages 18–44 within 24 hours of arrest, 29% were eligible for emergency contraception. Of these, 48% indicated a willingness to take emergency contraception. 71% responded that they would accept advance supply of emergency contraception upon release. In a study amongst 950 prisons only 70% reported contraception counseling. Another Rhode Island study showed that 77.5% reported a desire to initiate use of birth control while 4.4% of women after four weeks of their release initiated use of contraception. Therefore, provision of contraceptive services to women during incarceration does positively affect the rates of contraception use.\n\nAlthough abortions were made legal in the Roe v.s. Wade Supreme Court decision of 1973, many obstacles to women's access remain. Young, low-income, and non-white women experience the greatest hurdles in their efforts to obtain an abortion in many parts of the U.S. Obstacles to obtaining an abortion in the U.S. include a lack of Medicaid coverage for abortions (except in the case of certain circumstances, such as life endangerment), restrictive state laws (such as those requiring parental consent for a minor seeking an abortion), and conscience clauses allowing medical professionals to refuse to provide women with abortions, related-information, or proper referrals. Additional obstacles to access include a lack of safety for providers and patients at abortion facilities, the conservative, anti-choice political legislators and the citizens that support them, and a lack of qualified abortion providers, especially in rural states. A survey presented in Contraception found that 88% claimed there were transportation services for abortion clinics but only 54% claimed that the facility helped arrange appointments. The results from the survey also found a correlation between Republican-dominated state legislatures and severely restricted coverage for abortion. The research concludes that full access isn’t available in all settings, and correctional settings should increase the accessibility of services for women. Proponents of reproductive justice in prisons argue that withholding access to abortion can be seen as a violation of the 8th Amendment, preventing cruel and unusual punishments.\n\nResearch has shown a correlation between the 3.2% increase in women's prison population and the increase risk of incarcerated women catching sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, from another inmate. HIV/AIDS incidences are 3-4 times higher since the growth of prison populations. Many prisons also lack a pre-screening process for incarcerated women. Another survey of 188 women showed that more than half reported a history of gynecological infection, particularly yeast infections. 57.9% of STD cases were found in non-white women. The male condom (74.1%), birth control pills (66.5%), withdrawal (38.9%), and the Depo-Provera injection (24.3%) were the most common methods of contraception.\n\nPrisons have demonstrated high incidents of human rights violations. These include cases of medical neglect and forced sterilization. Often, acts of forced sterilizations have been justified as punishments for imprisoned women. These violations continue to occur due to limited public attention towards cases of prisoner dehumanization and injustice. This leads to greater helplessness as imprisoned women lose say in the treatment of their bodies. For example, prisons often perform forced hysterectomies on imprisoned women. Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights established by the United Nations prohibits cruel, degrading, inhumane torture. The lifelong effects of forced sterilization as well as the unnecessary suffering due to untreated disease violates these treaties.\n\nThe organization Asian Communities for Reproductive Justice, one of the original groups to define and promote reproductive justice, defines the challenges to reproductive health, rights, and justice as the concept of reproductive oppression. They explain,\n\n\"The control and exploitation of women and girls through our bodies, sexuality, and reproduction is a strategic pathway to regulating entire populations that is implemented by families, communities, institutions, and society. Thus, the regulation of reproduction and exploitation of women's bodies and labor is both a tool and a result of systems of oppression based on race, class, gender, sexuality, ability, age and immigration status. This is reproductive oppression as we use the term.\"\n\nThe definition of reproductive justice established by these groups as a counter to reproductive oppression illustrates the broadening of\nthe reproductive rights and health frameworks, expanding focus from protecting individual rights and choices to address broader socioeconomic conditions.\n\nAdvocates of reproductive justice support a diversity of issues they consider necessary for women to make reproductive decisions free of constraint or coercion. These enabling conditions include access to reliable transportation, health services, education, childcare, and positions of power; adequate housing and income; elimination of health hazardous environments; and freedom from violence and discrimination.\n\nReproductive justice advocates promote increased awareness of methods of contraception including IUD's, the vaginal ring, the birth control pill, condoms, and forms of emergency contraception like Plan B. By providing women with knowledge about and access to contraception, the reproductive justice movement hopes to lower unwanted pregnancies and help women take control over their bodies.\n\nReproductive justice also strives to make birth control more affordable for all women and petitions insurance companies to cover the costs of women's reproductive health. The National Organization for Women, for example, petitioned national legislators in 2009 to reinstate the low-cost contraception distribution by campus and community health centers, an effort that resulted in the passage of the Omnibus Appropriations Act.\n\nFederal programs supported by reproductive justice activists date back to the Title X Family Planning program, which was enacted in the 1970s to provide low income individuals with reproductive health services. Title X gives funding for clinics to provide health services such as breast and pelvic examinations, STD and cancer testing, and HIV counseling and education. These clinics are vital to low-income and uninsured individuals. Advocates for reproductive justice also aim to increase funding for these programs and increase the number of services that are funded.>\n\nPrior to the passage of the Affordable Care Act, many health care plans did not offer coverage for contraception methods, especially the more expensive procedures and devices, but the new healthcare legislation now gives women access to protective reproductive health services. Such services include pap tests, STI screening and counseling, prenatal care, and the human papillomavirus vaccine. A press release by the reproductive justice organization SPARK states, \"women will receive better coverage and more choices in their health care\" due to this expansion of care.\n\nAdvocates for reproductive justice such as SisterSong and Planned Parenthood believe that all women should be able to obtain a safe and affordable abortion if they desire one. Having safe, local, and affordable access to abortion services is a crucial part of ensuring high quality healthcare for women. Access to abortion services without restrictive barriers is a vital part of women's healthcare because \"…induced abortion is among the most common medical procedures in the U.S…Nearly half of American women will have one or more in their lifetimes.\" Furthermore, these organizations point to studies that show that when access to abortion is prohibitive or difficult, abortions will inevitably be delayed, which increases risks to women's health and raises the cost of procedures. Increasing access to abortion in the U.S. will undoubtedly result in more women being able to obtain abortions in the first trimester of pregnancy. Procedures performed after 12 weeks of pregnancy may be costlier for women (and states) financially and medically, as waiting longer results in greater risks of medical complications and mortality than abortions performed earlier in pregnancy. The American Medical Association also echoes the importance of removing barriers to obtaining an early abortion, concluding that these barriers increase the gestational age at which the induced pregnancy termination occurs, thereby also increasing the risk associated with the procedure.\n\nMinority groups experience poverty and high rates of pregnancy due to lack of available contraception. In addition, poor women are more likely to turn to unsafe abortion providers, and as a result, be hospitalized for complications related to the procedure than higher-income women. Organizations that promote reproductive justice such as NOW and Planned Parenthood aim to provide increased access to safe abortions at a low cost and without external pressure. They advocate increasing insurance coverage for abortions, decreasing the stigma and danger attached to receiving an abortion, eliminating parental notification for teens, training more physicians and clinics to provide safe abortions, and creating awareness about abortion.\n\nAccording to the website, The Pro-Choice Public Education Project, the U.S provides more funding towards Abstinence-only programs rather than Comprehensive sex education. From 1996 through 2007, Congress committed over $1.5 billion to abstinence-only programs. If funding is not provided towards sex education, students will not get the opportunity to learn about how to prevent pregnancy and STDs from occurring.\n\nThe website, Advocates for Youth, discusses abstinence-only education programs and how they are not effective at delaying the initiation of sexual activity or in reducing teen pregnancy. It attempts to prevent teens from engaging in sexual activities but this is ineffective and it makes teens more prone to engage in these activities with little to zero knowledge.\n\nReproductive health services are limited to LGBTQ community as compared to heterosexuals. This is evident from the lower number of training hours offered to students going into the medical field in regards to the health problems faced by LGBTQ persons. Evidence also shows that once students complete training and become health care providers, they adopt heteronormative attitudes towards their patients. In addition to lower educational standards and evident clinical prejudice towards LGBTQ patients, there is also limited health research that is specifically applicable to LGBTQ community.\n\nLGBTQ persons have been excluded in family planning programs, despite research showing that certain LGBTQ populations are at increased risk of STI transmission and subsequently could impact family planning. The FamilyPACT program in California was established in 1996 with the goal of helping low-income individuals (defined in this case as 200% of the Federal Poverty Limit) plan for children and maintain reproductive health. The program is directed towards those who have a \"medical need\" for family planning. This program does not serve men who have sex with men (MSM) or women who have sex with women (WSW), despite the risk of certain STIs leading to infertility.\n\nLGBTQ+ and sexually transmitted diseases\n\nLGBTQ persons are at higher risk than their heterosexual counterparts to contract STIs and HIV. Data from Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance show that LGBT youth more likely to have more than 3 sexual partners, are more likely to have sex before age 13, and about half as likely to use a condom during their last instance of sexual intercourse. An epidemiologic review suggest that men who have sex with men (MSM) have an elevated STI risk compared to men who have sex with women (MSW).\n\nHIV is especially prevalent in transgender women. The CDC reported that of the 2,351 transgender people diagnosed with HIV in the United States from 2009 to 2014, 84% were transgender women and 15% were transgender men. In 2013, the CDC reported that percentage of transgender people who were newly diagnosed with HIV was 3 times higher than the national average.\n\nBecause of the broad scope of the reproductive justice framework, reproductive justice activists are involved in organizing for a wide array of causes. These causes include movements for immigrant rights, labor rights, disability rights, LGBTQ rights, economic justice, and environmental justice. Other causes include organizing for comprehensive sex education, safe and affordable contraceptives, the repeal of the Hyde Amendment, and an end to violence against women and human trafficking.\n\nUnder the umbrella of the United Nations, there are several entities whose objectives relate to or promote reproductive justice. Among them, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women emphasizes the rights of women to reproductive health and to choose \"the number and spacing\" of their children, in addition to access of the resources that would allow them to do so. The Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman, or Degrading Treatment \"has been interpreted to include denial of family planning services to women.\"\n\nThe United Nations also sponsors conferences and summits with the subject of the empowerment of women that have historically advanced the reproductive justice movement, such as the International Conference on Population and Development.\n\nThe United Nations International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) that took place in Cairo, Egypt in 1994 marked a \"paradigm shift\" to a set of policies on population that placed a high priority on the sexual and reproductive rights of women. Prior to the ICPD, international efforts to gauge population growth and to produce approaches that addressed its challenges focused on \"strict and coercive\" policy that included compulsory birth control and preferential access to health services by people who had been sterilized. The Programme of Action produced at the 1994 Cairo conference has been \"heralded a departure from coercive fertility strategies\" by insisting on the \"fundamental rights of reproductive self determination and reproductive health care\" and provided the ideological inspiration for grassroots organizations such as SisterSong in the United States to launch a movement for reproductive justice.\n\nThe United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing followed the ICPD a year later, taking place in 1995, and producing a Platform for Action that advocated for the complete empowerment of all women. It charged states with the duty of ensuring the human rights of all women, among them sexual and reproductive health. The Beijing Platform for Action also promoted reproductive justice by calling on nations to reexamine laws that punished women for undergoing abortions.\n\nThe Millennium Declaration of September, 2000 and the eight Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that emerged as a result of the declaration built on the framework for sexual and reproductive health rights the ICPD had put forth five years earlier. The third and fifth MDGs, to promote gender equality and empower women and to improve maternal health, respectively, embody the principles of reproductive justice through \"the promotion of healthy, voluntary, and safe sexual and reproductive choices for individuals and couples, including such decisions as those on family size and timing of marriage.\" Indeed, the Outcome Document of the 2005 World Summit reiterates the connection between the Millennium Development Goals and their support of the many social factors that promote reproductive justice by committing the participating countries to:\n\n\"Achieving universal access to reproductive health by 2015, as set out at the International Conference on Population and Development, integrating this goal in strategies to attain the internationally agreed development goals, including those contained in the Millennium Declaration, aimed at reducing maternal mortality, improving maternal health, reducing child mortality, promoting gender equality, combating HIV/AIDS and eradicating poverty.\"\n\nReproductive health has been related to the fulfillment of all eight Millennium Development Goals, and advocates of reproductive justice have noted that by extension, this last issue is also critical to include in strategies to meet the MDGs.\n\nOrganizations that promote reproductive justice have criticized several United States policies that aim to remedy international issues of reproductive health. Groups such as Georgetown's Law Students for Reproductive Justice have objected for example to the Mexico City Policy, also known by some critics as the Global Gag Rule. Although repealed by the Obama administration, this policy requires that non-governmental organizations that receive federal funding from the United States avoid promoting family planning and abortion services in reproductive health settings.\n\nThe President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) is another contentious American program related to funding initiatives related to global reproductive health. The purpose of the program is to combat the global HIV/AIDS pandemic, but agencies such as the Center for Health and Gender Equity (CHANGE) have called into question its effectiveness. Although these organizations recognize the gains made by US aid as a whole, they argue that the rigid structure of the PEPFAR funding hinders a holistic, community-appropriate strategy to reduce HIV/AIDS infections, and contend that the program is \"laden with earmarks and restrictions from Washington that eliminate discretion for making funding decisions based on local realities and restrict alignment with European counterparts\".\n\nIn particular, PEPFAR has been criticized for its partnerships in the past. Its critics feel it gives higher priority in funding distribution to faith-based organizations, including some \"with little or no relevant international development experience\" and some which promote abstinence instead of utilizing effective prevention methods. Critics argue that this policy approach, which has been nicknamed the ABC—Abstinence, Be faithful, Condom-use—approach poses a challenge to reproductive justice. Reproductive justice activists hold that such policies marginalize groups of people such as LGBTQ persons who may be discriminated against, as well as women who have been raped for whom \"abstention is not an option\".\n\nAnother policy that has been condemned by activists for reproductive justice is the Anti-Prostitution Loyalty Oath (APLO) produced in 2003. Required by the United States to grant funding to non-governmental organizations that work to reduce the burden of HIV/AIDS internationally, this oath pledges to oppose sex trafficking and prostitution. Organizations that promote the empowerment of women such as the International Women's Health Coalition maintain that the oath is \"stigmatizing and discriminatory\" and that the groups of people opposed by the policy are precisely those who need help combating HIV/AIDS.\n\nUsing the term reproductive justice instead of pro-choice, reproductive rights, or reproductive health, is a rhetorical choice. Robin West, professor of law and philosophy at Georgetown, explains that \"pro-choice\" court cases may have been lost because of how the issue was framed. For instance, she argues that \"rights\" rhetoric gives courts, specifically the Supreme Court, immense rhetorical power. Reproductive \"health\" often places power in the hands of doctors, medical professionals, and ability to access clinics. In this view, \"rights\" and \"health\" both refer to power being given to the people from a top-down perspective. As a response, the \"justice\" frame is meant to put power back into the hands of the people.\n\nAlthough distinct from pro-choice frameworks, reproductive justice advocates typically rely on narrative as a rhetorical strategy to mobilize consensus. These narratives centralize women's stories and decision-making, similar to Tiller's \"Trust Women\" argument mentioned above. It also relies on public memory of feminist movements because it links women's stories across time and space. Narratives also explain the warrant, or why people are organizing. Narratives are used because they are more personal than abstract policy decisions and put a human face on political issues. While feminist narratives emphasize women's stories and experiences, reproductive justice narratives focus on women of color as rhetorical agents. They are situated as the experts. For social justice issues, narratives operate on two levels: (1) individual narratives as a rights-gaining strategy and (2) narratives about social justice or activist movements.\n\nFor rhetoricians, Celeste Condit's book on abortion discourse helps put pro-life and pro-choice ideologies in conversation. Her book, \"Decoding Abortion Rhetoric: Communicating Social Change\" (1990), was released before reproductive justice was created but it is a heavily-cited starting point for understanding how rhetoric shapes abortion debates. Some people believe that rhetoric is opposed to action and therefore less useful, but Condit shows how reality is made through rhetoric and how rhetoric is the key to communicating social change.\n\nA rhetoric of reproductive justice has not been theorized, but discussing reproductive justice often uses women's stories of oppression to try to change perceptions of reproduction. It is about more than just abortion rights and opposes media and organizational messaging that only see reproduction in terms of abortion.\n\nBecause reproductive justice is tied to community well-being, Kathleen M. de Onı´s 2012 article in \"Environmental Communication\" argues that reproductive justice should be understood alongside environmental justice and climate change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48583477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48583477", "title": "Samuel N. Alexander", "text": "Samuel N. Alexander\n\nSamuel Nathan Alexander (February 22, 1910 in Wharton, Texas – December 9, 1967 in Chevy Chase, Maryland) was an American computer pioneer who developed SEAC, one of the earliest computers.\n\nAlexander studied at the University of Oklahoma, earning a Bachelor's degree in 1931 and at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a Master's degree in 1933. After that, he was an engineer in the laboratory of Simplex, Wire and Cable Company, worked in the electronic instrument development for the U.S. Navy and was Senior Project Engineer at the Bendix Aviation Corporation. In 1946 he went to the National Bureau of Standards, where he became head of the Laboratory of electronic computer until 1954, when he became head of the data processing department. From 1964 to his death in 1967 he headed the Department of Information Technology. Alexander assisted Margaret R. Fox in developing a series of college computer courses beginning in 1966. \n\nAt the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, he developed the SEAC computer (Standards Eastern Automatic Computer). At first this was named National Bureau of Standards (NBS) Interim Computer. It was one of many computers built at that time along the lines of John von Neumann's design in universities, laboratories and government organizations, but were only intended as an interim solution until the industry could provide better computer. In this case, they were waiting for a computer by UNIVAC (Alexander was also involved in its design), whose delivery had been delayed. Alexander’s Chief Architect was Ralph J. Slutz (1917-2005) who previously worked with John von Neumann to build a computer at the Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nThe SEAC was the first fully functional electronic computer with internal program memory (stored program) in the U.S. it also was the first computer with semiconductor logic (first 10,500, then 16,000 germanium diodes), in addition to the 747 and later 1600 vacuum tubes. The computer operated for 14 years and was originally intended for training purposes within government agencies, but some of the earliest assemblers and compilers were built for it. It was the fastest fully functional computer for about a year until the UNIVAC I came out in 1951. It also served as a model for other government computers e.g. with the National Security Agency.\n\nAlexander also initiated the prototype DYSEAC at the NBS, a successor to the SEAC, which was built for the US Signal Corps. It was delivered in 1954 and could be transported in a truck.\n\nHe was an advisor to the US government and, in 1956 to Sweden and, in 1957, India. \n\nIn 1967 he received the Harry H. Goode Memorial Award and the 1981 Computer Pioneer Award from the IEEE Computer Society. He was a member of the Washington Academy of Sciences.\n\n\"Major portions of content were translated from German Wikipedia.\"\n"}
{"id": "44458672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44458672", "title": "Sandra Doller", "text": "Sandra Doller\n\nSandra Doller (formerly Miller) (born 1974 Washington, DC) is an American poet and writer.\n\nShe attended Amherst College, University of Washington, and University of Chicago.\n\nShe received her MFA from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, where she was awarded the two year Iowa Arts Fellowship.\n\nDoller has taught at Hollins University, Cornell College, University of Iowa and in 2007, was Distinguished Visiting Writer at Boise State University. She is currently Associate Professor of Literature & Writing Studies at California State University-San Marcos.\n\nIn 2003, Sandra Doller founded the international inter-arts journal and press: 1913 a journal of forms and in 2006 began editing and publishing books on 1913 Press . She still serves as editrice/editor-in-chief of 1913, which publishes diverse contemporary writing alongside early modernist experiments. 1913 Press authors include: John Keene & Christopher Stackhouse, Shin Yu Pai, Biswamit Dwibedy, Arielle Greenberg & Rachel Zucker, Diane Wald, Karena Youtz, Jane Lewty, Scott McFarland, Monica Mody, Ronaldo Wilson, Lily Hoang, and Andy Fitch & Jon Cotner. Each year, 1913 Press publishes an anthology of inter-translation, titled READ, co-edited by Sarah Riggs & Cole Swensen.\n\nShe lives in San Diego with her partner and collaborator, the poet and writer Ben Doller (formerly Doyle). In 2007, the two merged their last names: Doyle + Miller = Doller.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48064", "title": "Sesame Street", "text": "Sesame Street\n\nSesame Street is an American educational children's television series that combines live action, sketch comedy, animation and puppetry. It is produced by Sesame Workshop (formerly known as the Children's Television Workshop until June 2000) and was created by Joan Ganz Cooney and Lloyd Morrisett. The program is known for its images communicated through the use of Jim Henson's Muppets, and includes short films, with humor and cultural references. The series premiered on November 10, 1969, to positive reviews, some controversy, and high viewership; it has aired on the U.S.'s national public television provider PBS since its debut, with its first run moving to premium channel HBO on January 16, 2016.\n\nThe format of \"Sesame Street\" consists of a combination of commercial television production elements and techniques which have evolved to reflect the changes in American culture and the audience's viewing habits. With the creation of \"Sesame Street\", producers and writers of a children's television show used, for the first time, educational goals and a curriculum to shape its content. It was also the first time a show's educational effects were formally studied. The show, therefore, has undergone significant changes in its history as adjustments to the format and content have been made to reflect change sources to the curriculum.\n\nShortly after creating \"Sesame Street\", its producers developed what came to be called the \"CTW model\" (after the production company's previous name), a system of television show planning, production, and evaluation based on collaborations between producers, writers, educators, and researchers. The show was initially funded by government and private foundations but has become somewhat self-supporting due to revenues from licensing arrangements, international sales, and other media. By 2006, there were independently produced versions, or \"co-productions\", of \"Sesame Street\" broadcast in twenty countries. In 2001, there were over 120 million viewers of various international versions of \"Sesame Street\", and by the show's 40th anniversary in 2009, it was broadcast in more than 140 countries.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was by then the fifteenth-highest-rated children's television show in the United States. A 1996 survey found that 95% of all American preschoolers had watched the show by the time they were three years old. In 2008, it was estimated that 77 million Americans had watched the series as children. As of 2014, \"Sesame Street\" has won 167 Emmy Awards and 8 Grammy Awards—more than any other children's show.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was conceived in 1966 during discussions between television producer Joan Ganz Cooney and Carnegie Foundation vice president Lloyd Morrisett. Their goal was to create a children's television show that would \"master the addictive qualities of television and do something good with them\", such as helping young children prepare for school. After two years of research, the newly formed Children's Television Workshop (CTW) received a combined grant of US$8 million ($ million in dollars) from the Carnegie Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and the U.S. Federal Government to create and produce a new children's television show. The program premiered on public television stations on November 10, 1969. It was the first preschool educational television program to base its contents and production values on laboratory and formative research. Initial responses to the show included adulatory reviews, some controversy, and high ratings. By its 40th anniversary in 2009, \"Sesame Street\" was broadcast in over 120 countries, and 20 international versions had been produced.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" has evolved from its initial inception. According to writer Michael Davis, by the mid-1970s the show had become \"an American institution\". The cast and crew expanded during this time, with emphasis on the hiring of women crew members and the addition of minorities to the cast. The show's success continued into the 1980s. In 1981, when the federal government withdrew its funding, CTW turned to, and expanded, other revenue sources, including its magazine division, book royalties, product licensing, and foreign broadcast income. \"Sesame Street\"s curriculum has expanded to include more affective topics such as relationships, ethics, and emotions. Many of the show's storylines were taken from the experiences of its writing staff, cast, and crew, most notably, the 1982 death of Will Lee—who played Mr. Hooper—and the marriage of Luis and Maria in 1988.\n\nBy the end of the 1990s, \"Sesame Street\" faced societal and economic challenges, including changes in viewing habits of young children, competition from other shows, the development of cable television, and a drop in ratings. After the turn of the 21st century, \"Sesame Street\" made major structural changes. For example, starting in 2002, its format became more narrative and included ongoing storylines. After its thirtieth anniversary in 1999 and due to the popularity of the Muppet Elmo, the show also incorporated a popular segment known as \"Elmo's World\". Upon its fortieth anniversary in 2009, the show received a Lifetime Achievement Emmy at the 36th Daytime Emmy Awards.\n\nOn August 13, 2015, as part of a five-year programming and development deal, Sesame Workshop announced that first-run episodes of \"Sesame Street\" would move to premium television service HBO beginning with season 46, which premiered on January 16, 2016. HBO will hold first-run rights to all newer episodes of the series, after which they will air on PBS member stations following a nine-month exclusivity window, with no charge to the stations for airing the content. The agreement also gives HBO exclusive rights to stream past and future \"Sesame Street\" episodes on HBO Go and HBO Now – assuming those rights from Amazon Video and Netflix; on August 14, Sesame Workshop announced that it would phase out its in-house subscription streaming service, Sesame Go, as a standalone service; the service will remain in operation, likely with its offerings reduced to a slate content available for free or serving as a portal for \"Sesame Street\"s website. The deal came in the wake of cutbacks that had affected the series in recent years, the changing viewer habits of American children in the previous ten years, and Sesame Workshop's dependence upon revenue from DVD sales.\n\nIn April 2017, \" Sesame Street\" introduced Julia, a new Muppet who has autism, performed by Stacey Gordon, who has a son on the autism spectrum.\n\nFrom its first episode, \"Sesame Street\" has structured its format by using \"a strong visual style, fast-moving action, humor, and music,\" as well as animation and live-action short films. When \"Sesame Street\" premiered, most researchers believed that young children did not have long attention spans, therefore the new show's producers were concerned that an hour-long show would not hold their audience's attention. At first, the show's \"street scenes\"—the action taking place on its set—consisted of character-driven interactions and were not written as ongoing stories. Instead, they consisted of individual, curriculum-based segments which were interrupted by \"inserts\" consisting of puppet sketches, short films, and animations. This structure allowed the producers to use a mixture of styles and characters, and to vary the show's pace. By season 20, research had shown that children were able to follow a story, and the street scenes, while still interspersed with other segments, became evolving storylines.\n\nUpon recommendations by child psychologists, the producers initially decided that the show's human actors and Muppets would not interact because they were concerned it would confuse young children. When the CTW tested the appeal of the new show, they found that although children paid attention to the shows during the Muppet segments, their interest was lost during the \"Street\" segments. The producers requested that Henson and his team create Muppets such as Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch to interact with the human actors, and the Street segments were re-shot. \"Sesame Street\"s format remained intact until the 2000s, when the changing audience required that producers move to a more narrative format. In 1998, the popular segment \"Elmo's World\", a 15-minute-long segment hosted by the Muppet Elmo, was created. Starting in 2014, during the show's 45th season, the producers introduced a half-hour version of the program. The new version, which originally complemented the full-hour series, and was both broadcast weekday afternoons and streamed on the internet. The half-hour version of the show became the standard with the 46th season.\n\nAs author Malcolm Gladwell has stated, \"\"Sesame Street\" was built around a single, breakthrough insight: that if you can hold the attention of children, you can educate them\". Gerald S. Lesser, the CTW's first advisory board chair, went even further, saying that the effective use of television as an educational tool needed to capture, focus, and sustain children's attention. \"Sesame Street\" was the first children's show to structure each episode, and the segments within them, to capture children's attention, and to make, as Gladwell put it, \"small but critical adjustments\" to keep it. According to CTW researchers Rosemarie Truglio and Shalom Fisch, \"Sesame Street\" was one of the few children's television programs to utilize a detailed and comprehensive educational curriculum, garnered from formative and summative research.\n\nThe creators of \"Sesame Street\" and their researchers formulated both cognitive and affective goals for the show. Initially, they focused on cognitive goals, while addressing affective goals indirectly, in the belief that doing so would increase children's self-esteem and feelings of competency. One of their primary goals was preparing very young children for school, especially children from low-income families, using modeling, repetition, and humor to fulfill these goals. They made changes in the show's content to increase their viewers' attention and to increase its appeal, and encouraged \"co-viewing\" to entice older children and parents to watch the show by including more sophisticated humor, cultural references, and celebrity guest appearances.\n\nAfter \"Sesame Street\"s first season, its critics forced its producers and researchers to address more overtly such affective goals as social competence, tolerance of diversity, and nonaggressive ways of resolving conflict. These issues were addressed through interpersonal disputes among its Street characters. During the 1980s, the show incorporated the real-life experiences of the show's cast and crew, including the death of Will Lee (Mr. Hooper) and the pregnancy of Sonia Manzano (Maria) to address affective concerns. In later seasons, \"Sesame Street\" addressed real-life disasters such as the September 11 terrorist attacks and Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThe show's goals for outreach were addressed through a series of programs that first focused on promotion and then, after the first season, on the development of educational materials used in preschool settings. Innovative programs were developed because their target audience, children and their families in low-income, inner-city homes, did not traditionally watch educational programs on television and because traditional methods of promotion and advertising were not effective with these groups.\n\nAs a result of Cooney's initial proposal in 1968, the Carnegie Institute awarded her an $1 million grant to create a new children's television program and establish the CTW, renamed in June 2000 to Sesame Workshop (SW). Cooney and Morrisett procured additional multimillion-dollar grants from the U.S. federal government, The Arthur Vining Davis Foundations, CPB, and the Ford Foundation. Davis reported that Cooney and Morrisett decided that if they did not procure full funding from the beginning, they would drop the idea of producing the show. As Lesser reported, funds gained from a combination of government agencies and private foundations protected them from the economic pressures experienced by commercial broadcast television networks, but created challenges in procuring future funding.\n\nAfter \"Sesame Street\"s initial success, its producers began to think about its survival beyond its development and first season and decided to explore other funding sources. From the first season, they understood that the source of their funding, which they considered \"seed\" money, would need to be replaced. The 1970s were marked by conflicts between the CTW and the federal government; in 1978, the U.S. Department of Education refused to deliver a $2 million check until the last day of CTW's fiscal year. As a result, the CTW decided to depend upon licensing arrangements with toy companies and other manufacturers, publishing, and international sales for their funding.\n\nIn 1998, the CTW accepted corporate sponsorship to raise funds for \"Sesame Street\" and other projects. For the first time, they allowed short advertisements by indoor playground manufacturer Discovery Zone, their first corporate sponsor, to air before and after each episode. Consumer advocate Ralph Nader, who had previously appeared on \"Sesame Street\", called for a boycott of the show, saying that the CTW was \"exploiting impressionable children\". While first-run episodes on HBO do not have underwriting due to its status as a pay-TV network, repeats on PBS continue to have corporate underwriting.\n\nProducer Joan Ganz Cooney has stated, \"Without research, there would be no \"Sesame Street\"\". In 1967, when Cooney and her team began to plan the show's development, combining research with television production was, as she put it, \"positively heretical\". Shortly after creating \"Sesame Street\", its producers began to develop what came to be called \"the CTW model\", a system of planning, production, and evaluation that did not fully emerge until the end of the show's first season. According to Morrow, the CTW model consisted of four parts: \"the interaction of receptive television producers and child science experts, the creation of a specific and age-appropriate curriculum, research to shape the program directly, and independent measurement of viewers' learning\".\n\nCooney credited the show's high standard in research procedures to Harvard professors Gerald S. Lesser, whom the CTW hired to design the show's educational objectives, and Edward L. Palmer, who was responsible for conducting the show's formative research and for bridging the gap between the show's producers and researchers. The CTW conducted research in two ways: in-house formative research that informed and improved production, and independent summative evaluations, conducted by the Educational Testing Service (ETS) during the show's first two seasons, which measuring its educational effectiveness. Cooney stated, \"From the beginning, we—the planners of the project—designed the show as an experimental research project with educational advisers, researchers, and television producers collaborating as equal partners\". Cooney also described the collaboration as an \"arranged marriage\".\n\n\"Sesame Street\" has used many writers in its long history. As Dave Connell, one of \"Sesame Street\"s original producers, has stated, it was difficult to find adults who could identify a preschooler's interest level. Fifteen writers a year worked on the show's scripts, but very few lasted longer than one season. Norman Stiles, head writer in 1987, reported that most writers would \"burn out\" after writing about a dozen scripts. According to Gikow, \"Sesame Street\" went against the convention of hiring teachers to write for the show, as most educational television programs did at the time. Instead, Cooney and the producers felt that it would be easier to teach writers how to interpret curriculum than to teach educators how to write comedy. As Stone stated, \"Writing for children is not so easy\". Long-time writer Tony Geiss agreed, stating in 2009, \"It's not an easy show to write. You have to know the characters and the format and how to teach and be funny at the same time, which is a big, ambidextrous stunt\".\n\nThe show's research team developed an annotated document, or \"Writer's Notebook\", which served as a bridge between the show's curriculum goals and script development. The notebook was a compilation of programming ideas designed to teach specific curriculum points, provided extended definitions of curriculum goals, and assisted the writers and producers in translating the goals into televised material. Suggestions in the notebook were free of references to specific characters and contexts on the show so that they could be implemented as openly and flexibly as possible.\n\nThe research team, in a series of meetings with the writers, also developed \"a curriculum sheet\" that described the show's goals and priorities for each season. After receiving the curriculum focus and goals for the season, the writers met to discuss ideas and story arcs for the characters, and an \"assignment sheet\" was created that suggested how much time was allotted for each goal and topic. When a script was completed, the show's research team analyzed it to ensure that the goals were met. Then each production department met to determine what each episode needed in terms of costumes, lights, and sets. The writers were present during the show's taping, which for the first twenty-four years of the show took place in Manhattan, and after 1992, at the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens to make last-minute revisions when necessary.\n\nEarly in their history \"Sesame Street\" and the CTW began to look for alternative funding sources and turned to creating products and writing licensing agreements. They became, as Cooney put it, \"a multiple-media institution\". In 1970, the CTW created a \"non-broadcast\" division responsible for creating and publishing books and \"Sesame Street Magazine\". They decided that all materials their licensing program created would \"underscore and amplify\" the show's curriculum. In 2004, over 68% of \"Sesame Street\"s revenue came from licenses and products such as toys and clothing. By 2008, the \"Sesame Street\" Muppets accounted for between $15 million and $17 million per year in licensing and merchandising fees, split between the Sesame Workshop and The Jim Henson Company.\n\nJim Henson, the creator of the Muppets, owned the trademarks to those characters, and was reluctant to market them at first. He agreed when the CTW promised that the profits from toys, books, computer games, and other products were to be used exclusively to fund the CTW and its outreach efforts. Even though Cooney and the CTW had very little experience with marketing, they demanded complete control over all products and product decisions. Any product line associated with the show had to be educational and inexpensive, and could not be advertised during the show's airings. As Davis reported, \"Cooney stressed restraint, prudence, and caution\" in their marketing and licensing efforts.\n\nDirector Jon Stone, talking about the music of \"Sesame Street\", said: \"There was no other sound like it on television\". For the first time in children's television, the show's songs fulfilled a specific purpose and supported its curriculum. In order to attract the best composers and lyricists, the CTW allowed songwriters like \"Sesame Street\"s first musical director Joe Raposo to retain the rights to the songs they wrote, which earned them lucrative profits and helped the show sustain public interest. By 1991, \"Sesame Street\" and its songwriters had received eight Grammys.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" used animations and short films commissioned from outside studios, interspersed throughout each episode, to help teach their viewers basic concepts like numbers and letters. Jim Henson was one of the many producers to create short films for the show. Shortly after \"Sesame Street\" debuted in the United States, the CTW was approached independently by producers from several countries to produce versions of the show at home. These versions came to be called \"co-productions\". By 2001 there were over 120 million viewers of all international versions of \"Sesame Street\", and in 2006, there were twenty co-productions around the world. By the show's 40th anniversary in 2009, \"Sesame Street\" was broadcast in more than 140 countries. In 2005, Doreen Carvajal of \"The New York Times\" reported that income from the co-productions and international licensing accounted for $96 million.\n\nShortly after the CTW was created in 1968, Joan Ganz Cooney was named its first executive director. She was one of the first female executives in American television. Her appointment was called \"one of the most important television developments of the decade\". She assembled a team of producers, all of whom had previously worked on \"Captain Kangaroo\". Jon Stone was responsible for writing, casting, and format; Dave Connell took over animation; and Sam Gibbon served as the show's chief liaison between the production staff and the research team. Cameraman Frankie Biondo worked on \"Sesame Street\" from its first episode.\n\nJim Henson and the Muppets' involvement in \"Sesame Street\" began when he and Cooney met at one of the curriculum planning seminars in Boston. Author Christopher Finch reported that Stone, who had worked with Henson previously, felt that if they could not bring him on board, they should \"make do without puppets\". Henson was initially reluctant, but he agreed to join \"Sesame Street\" to meet his own social goals. He also agreed to waive his performance fee for full ownership of the \"Sesame Street\" Muppets and to split any revenue they generated with the CTW. As Morrow stated, Henson's puppets were a crucial part of the show's popularity and it brought Henson national attention. Davis reported that Henson was able to take \"arcane academic goals\" and translate them to \"effective and pleasurable viewing\". In early research, the Muppet segments of the show scored high, and more Muppets were added during the first few seasons. Morrow reported that the Muppets were effective teaching tools because children easily recognized them, they were stereotypical and predictable, and they appealed to adults and older siblings.\n\nAlthough the producers decided against depending upon a single host for \"Sesame Street\", instead casting a group of ethnically diverse actors, they realized that a children's television program needed to have, as Lesser put it, \"a variety of distinctive and reliable personalities\", both human and Muppet. Jon Stone, whose goal was to cast white actors in the minority, was responsible for hiring the show's first cast. He did not audition actors until Spring 1969, a few weeks before the five test shows were due to be filmed. Stone videotaped the auditions, and Ed Palmer took them out into the field to test children's reactions. The actors who received the \"most enthusiastic thumbs up\" were cast. For example, Loretta Long was chosen to play Susan when the children who saw her audition stood up and sang along with her rendition of \"I'm a Little Teapot\". As Stone said, casting was the only aspect of the show that was \"just completely haphazard\". Most of the cast and crew found jobs on \"Sesame Street\" through personal relationships with Stone and the other producers.\n\nAccording to the CTW's research, children preferred watching and listening to other children more than to puppets and adults, so they included children in many scenes. Dave Connell insisted that no child actors be used, so these children were nonprofessionals, unscripted, and spontaneous. Many of their reactions were unpredictable and difficult to control, but the adult cast learned to handle the children's spontaneity flexibly, even when it resulted in departures from the planned script or lesson. CTW research also revealed that the children's hesitations and on-air mistakes served as models for viewers. According to Morrow, this resulted in the show having a \"fresh quality\", especially in its early years. Children were also used in the voice-over commentaries of most of the live-action films the CTW produced.\n\nWhen \"Sesame Street\" premiered in 1969, it aired on only 67.6% of American televisions, but it earned a 3.3 Nielsen rating, which totaled 1.9 million households. By the show's tenth anniversary in 1979, nine million American children under the age of 6 were watching \"Sesame Street\" daily. According to a 1993 survey conducted by the U.S. Department of Education, out of the show's 6.6 million viewers, 2.4 million kindergartners regularly watched it. 77% of preschoolers watched it once a week, and 86% of kindergartners and first- and second-grade students had watched it once a week before starting school. The show reached most young children in almost all demographic groups.\n\nThe show's ratings significantly decreased in the early 1990s, resulting from changes in children's viewing habits and in the television marketplace. The producers responded by making large-scale structural changes to the show. By 2006, \"Sesame Street\" had become \"the most widely viewed children's television show in the world\", with 20 international independent versions and broadcasts in over 120 countries. A 1996 survey found that 95% of all American preschoolers had watched the show by the time they were three years old. In 2008, it was estimated that 77 million Americans had watched the series as children. By the show's 40th anniversary in 2009, it was ranked the fifteenth-most-popular children's show on television.\n\nAs of 2001, there were over 1,000 research studies regarding \"Sesame Street\"s efficacy, impact, and effect on American culture. The CTW solicited the Educational Testing Service (ETS) to conduct summative research on the show. ETS's two \"landmark\" summative evaluations, conducted in 1970 and 1971, demonstrated that the show had a significant educational impact on its viewers. These studies have been cited in other studies of the effects of television on young children. Additional studies conducted throughout \"Sesame Street\"s history demonstrated that the show continued to have a positive effect on its young viewers.\n\nLesser believed that \"Sesame Street\" research \"may have conferred a new respectability upon the studies of the effects of visual media upon children\". He also believed that the show had the same effect on the prestige of producing shows for children in the television industry. Historian Robert Morrow, in his book \"Sesame Street and the Reform of Children's Television\", which chronicled the show's influence on children's television and on the television industry as a whole, reported that many critics of commercial television saw \"Sesame Street\" as a \"straightforward illustration for reform\". Les Brown, a writer for \"Variety\", saw in \"Sesame Street\" \"a hope for a more substantial future\" for television.\n\nMorrow reported that the networks responded by creating more high-quality television programs, but that many critics saw them as \"appeasement gestures\". According to Morrow, despite the CTW Model's effectiveness in creating a popular show, commercial television \"made only a limited effort to emulate CTW's methods\", and did not use a curriculum or evaluate what children learned from them. By the mid-1970s, commercial television abandoned their experiments with creating better children's programming. Other critics hoped that \"Sesame Street\", with its depiction of a functioning, multicultural community, would nurture racial tolerance in its young viewers. It was not until the mid-1990s when a children's television educational program, \"Blue's Clues\", used the CTW's methods to create and modify their content. The creators of \"Blue's Clues\" were influenced by \"Sesame Street\", but wanted to use research conducted in the 30 years since its debut. Angela Santomero, one of its producers, said, \"We wanted to learn from \"Sesame Street\" and take it one step further\".\n\nAs critic Richard Roeper has stated, perhaps one of the strongest indicators of the influence of \"Sesame Street\" has been the enduring rumors and urban legends surrounding the show and its characters, especially those concerning Bert and Ernie. One popular rumor points to Bert and Ernie being gay, as revealed by Mark Saltzman, the writer himself. In response, Sesame Street firmly denies the allegation.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was praised from its debut in 1969. \"Newsday\" reported that several newspapers and magazines had written \"glowing\" reports about the CTW and Cooney. The press overwhelmingly praised the new show; several popular magazines and niche magazines lauded it. In 1970, \"Sesame Street\" won twenty awards, including a Peabody Award, three Emmys, an award from the Public Relations Society of America, a Clio, and a Prix Jeunesse. By 1995, the show had won two Peabody Awards and four Parents' Choice Awards. In addition, it was the subject of retrospectives at the Smithsonian Institution and the Museum of Modern Art.\n\n\"Sesame Street\" was not without its detractors, however. In May 1970, the state commission in Mississippi, the state Henson was actually from, that operated the state's PBS member station voted to not air \"Sesame Street\" because of its \"highly integrated cast of children\" which \"the commission members felt ... Mississippi was not yet ready for\". According to \"\", Lesser's account of the development and early years of \"Sesame Street\", there was little criticism of the show in the months following its premiere, but it increased at the end of its first season and beginning of the second season. Historian Robert W. Morrow speculated that much of the early criticism, which he called \"surprisingly intense\", stemmed from cultural and historical reasons in regards to, as he put it, \"the place of children in American society and the controversies about television's effects on them\".\n\nAccording to Morrow, the \"most important\" studies finding negative effects of \"Sesame Street\" were conducted by educator Herbert A. Sprigle and psychologist Thomas D. Cook during its first two seasons. Social scientist and Head Start founder Urie Bronfenbrenner criticized the show for being too wholesome. Psychologist Leon Eisenberg saw \"Sesame Street\"s urban setting as \"superficial\" and having little to do with the problems confronted by the inner-city child. Head Start director Edward Zigler was probably \"Sesame Street\"s most vocal critic in the show's early years.\n\nIn spite of their commitment to multiculturalism, the CTW experienced conflicts with the leadership of minority groups, especially Latino groups and feminists, who objected to \"Sesame Street\"s depiction of Latinos and women. The CTW took steps to address their objections. By 1971, the CTW hired Hispanic actors, production staff, and researchers, and by the mid-1970s, Morrow reported that \"the show included Chicano and Puerto Rican cast members, films about Mexican holidays and foods, and cartoons that taught Spanish words\". As \"The New York Times\" has stated, creating strong female characters \"that make kids laugh, but not...as female stereotypes\" has been a challenge for the producers of \"Sesame Street\". According to Morrow, change regarding how women and girls were depicted on \"Sesame Street\" occurred slowly. As more female Muppets performers like Fran Brill, Pam Arciero, Carmen Osbahr, Stephanie D'Abruzzo, Jennifer Barnhart, and Leslie Carrara-Rudolph were hired and trained, stronger female characters like Rosita and Abby Cadabby were created.\nIn 2002, \"Sesame Street\" was ranked No. 27 on TV Guide's 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time. It also won another Peabody Award in 2009 for sesamestreet.org. In 2013, TV Guide ranked the series No. 30 on its list of the 60 Best Series. As of 2016, \"Sesame Street\" has received 167 Emmy Awards, more than any other television series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49699560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49699560", "title": "Smigin", "text": "Smigin\n\nSmigin is a conversation-based language learning platform available online and as a mobile application for iOS and Android. As of March 2016, Smigin has two products: Smigin, a language-learning website and Smigin Travel, a mobile translation app. Smigin's language learning site offers 4 different destination languages across 3 source languages, with several languages in development. Smigin Travel, exclusively designed for the mobile interface, is available on iOS and Android in 11 languages with users in over 175 countries.\n\nSmigin was founded by Irish entrepreneur Susan O’Brien as an alternative to traditional language learning products and methods that focus on rigid grammar structures rather than conversational language. After moving to Portugal and having to learn Portuguese as a complete beginner, O’Brien – a University College Cork graduate who speaks six languages – decided to develop a language learning solution that puts the user in control of their learning and focuses on what users wants to learn, with primary emphasis on conversational language.\n\nSmigin Travel, the company's first product, launched on the App Store on February 17, 2014. Smigin Travel is a multilingual, multi-directional “phrasebuilder” tool that enables travelers to speak a foreign language. Its user interface enables users to build and translate phrases across location-based sections such as Café, Restaurant, Hotel etc. The app also features phonetic spelling and audio recorded by native language speakers to help users pronounce their phrase.\n\nWith the support of Google in New York City, Smigin began to optimize Smigin Travel for Android in mid-2015 and in August 2015 released the Android version on the Google Play Store. Smigin Travel is free to download, and users have the ability to unlock additional content through in-app purchases. Initial support for the Smigin Travel app grew quickly and the company amassed users in 175 countries. The app is available in English, Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, Polish, Swedish and Haitian Creole.\n\nOn September 29, 2015, Smigin launched a month-long Kickstarter campaign with a funding goal of $20,000 for its second product named after the company. On October 27, 2015, Smigin successfully passed its funding goal and on October 29, 2015, Smigin acquired upwards of $20,000 to invest in further product development for its second product.\n\nIn March 2016, the company released its eponymous second product, Smigin – a browser-based language learning solution for beginners with an emphasis on conversational skills. Smigin launched in Spanish, Italian, Portuguese and English as a Second Language. Additional languages will be added throughout 2016, including Asian languages.\n\nSmigin is listed by Digital NYC as a Made in NY startup.\n\nSmigin's patent-pending methodology employs a three-step approach to speaking a foreign language:\n\nCurated content: All Smigin content has been curated for location-based or situational scenarios to reflect useful language for real life application. Users pick sections to access relevant words and phrases they need to say at any given time.<br>\nBuilt-in grammar: Smigin's “built-in grammar\" uses the infinitive form of verbs so users can create a wide variety of sentences without conjugations.<br>\nReal-life language: By gaining instant access to relevant words and phrases, Smigin empowers users to “break down language barriers” and become confident travelers by engaging in conversation. Users are encouraged to travel and apply their new skills to interactions with foreign locals.\n\nSmigin's language courses focus on conversation as the center of the user's learning. Each course is segmented into context-based sections such as Meet & Greet, Café, and Hotel. Most sections are based on situations in which language beginners may find themselves abroad, and are divided into three levels: Words, Phrases, and Chat. Instead of forcing users into a fixed learning structure that involves rote memorization and grammar drills, Smigin allows users to freely navigate the platform. Users can also access reference sessions that provide additional vocabulary words, as well as detailed explanations of the language's grammar rules.\n\nChat allows users to simulate short conversations with a virtual “local” to prepare for real-life conversations with locals abroad. During Chat, users enhance their conversational skills by responding to questions and prompts. Chat's text-input interface demonstrates the variety of conversations a user can have in another language without an in-depth knowledge of verb conjugations and varied grammatical structures.\n\nUsers are encouraged to start a section by learning relevant words and phrases related to that section. Phrases use the Smigin Method of enabling the user to create simple sentences without worrying about grammar; to add visual context, all videos were shot on-location in countries where the language is spoken (e.g. Spain, Italy, Portugal). Users can listen to native speaker audio, view the phonetic pronunciation of each word or phrase, and translate to and from their native language throughout these levels.\n\nSmigin Travel is a mobile application for iOS and Android that enables users to build and translate phrases in multiple languages while abroad. Smigin Travel allows users to create phrases and ask questions based on various situations in which they will find themselves on their travels.\n\nAs of March 2016, the sections consisted of: Café, Bar, Restaurant, Hotel, Shopping, Emergency, Getting Around, Transport, Business, and Destinations. Each section features sentence starters, pre-conjugated verbs, and sentence objects that together form phrases and questions based on the respective section.\n\nUsers have the ability to hear their phrases spoken by native speakers, read simplified phonetic spelling to learn how best to pronounce them using their native syllables, and save phrases for later use. Additionally, users have the ability to create their own personal phrasebook that suits the needs of their travel experiences.\n\nAs of March 2016, Smigin Travel amassed users in over 175 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "53891343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53891343", "title": "Stella Bruzzi", "text": "Stella Bruzzi\n\nStella Bruzzi, FBA (born 28 January 1962) is an Italian-born British scholar of film and media studies. Since 2006, she has been Professor of Film and Television Studies at the University of Warwick. She has previously taught at the University of Manchester and at Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nIn 2013, Bruzzi was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "11458358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11458358", "title": "Student group", "text": "Student group\n\nA student group is an organization of students, typically at a high school, college or university, who share a common background or interest. Student groups may be supervised by a member of faculty, but are typically organized and attended independently. Student groups may elect people to positions of responsibility in the group, such as president, vice-president, treasurer, and business manager.\n\nStudents may form groups for people of a common ethnicity or religion. Others form around common interests such as science, art, music, and sports. Some student groups focus on a particular aspect of the school, such as community service, student government, or environmental activism. One specific type is for LGBT students; in high school these are often called \"gay-straight alliances\".\n"}
{"id": "53972454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53972454", "title": "Tanja Manuela Sadow", "text": "Tanja Manuela Sadow\n\nTanja Manuela Sadow is a Singapore educator and founder of the Jewellery Design and Management International School\n\nSadow studied in Spain, the United Kingdom and attended the Gemological Institute of America in the United States of America. Her training included various forms of design and she is a graduate Jewellery Gemmologist.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1991 Sadow was a resident and extension instructor at the Gemological Institute of America, training jewellers in their Santa Monica campus as well as in 48 US States and conducting GIA's first extension course in Singapore\n\nIn 1991 Sadow consulted with the Singapore Economic Development Board, recommending the development of a Singapore-based education facility for the jewellery industry. Later she was commissioned to develop the gemmology curriculum for the newly formed Jewellery Industry Training Centre of Singapore (JITCS). Sadow continued to develop training programmes and deliver gemmology and jewellery training to the Singapore jewellery industry with the JITCS until December 1994.\n\nIn 1995 Sadow established a commercial company, JusTanja Pte. Ltd. which she would use to design and distribute jewellery lines in Singapore, Los Angeles and London, stocked by notable department stores such as Harrods of London. Through this company, Sadow also delivered corporate training to Singapore jewellery firms and raised awareness about gemstones and jewellery with Singapore clubs and communities.\n\nSadow established the retail brand BeadHub. Between 2000 and 2006, Sadow grew BeadHub from a single member only location to a multi-outlet component and finished jewellery chain in Singapore with locations in Wisma Atria, Emerald Hill Road and Sunshine Plaza as well as a unique DIY jewellery concession within Robinson & Co. in The Centrepoint. The BeadHub brand was sold in 2006 following Sadow's desire to pursue the development of a formal training institution.\n\nIn 2007 Sadow founded the Jewellery Design and Management International School in Singapore. She continues to head this organization in the capacity of executive director and dean of the school.\n\nSadow is founder and president of the Guild of Jewellery Professionals and Artisans, a not-for-profit society registered in Singapore, and an executive committee member of the Singapore Jewellers Association, a not-for-profit association registered in Singapore.\n\nSadow regularly delivers public talks and workshops both in Singapore and the Asia-Pacific region to promote jewellery appreciation and interest in the jewellery industry. She also works with international brands to provide educational content to support their outreach activities. Sadow also provides authoritative viewpoints for press articles in Singapore and around the world.\n\nSadow has been a judge at local and international jewellery design competitions, including the Singapore Jewellery Design Award\nSadow has received the following awards:\n"}
{"id": "8730938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8730938", "title": "United Teachers of New Orleans", "text": "United Teachers of New Orleans\n\nThe United Teachers of New Orleans (UTNO) is a labor union representing teachers and other educational workers in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States. It is an affiliate of the Louisiana Federation of Teachers (LFT), American Federation of Teachers (AFT) and the AFL-CIO.\n\nUTNO was the first integrated teachers' union in Louisiana, and the first to win a collective bargaining agreement in the state without the protection of a state employees collective bargaining law. Once the largest union in Louisiana, a state takeover of the city public schools in the wake of Hurricane Katrina nearly destroyed the union. UTNO has been reorganizing with help from its parent union, the American Federation of Teachers, and the AFL-CIO. As of August 2007, the union had regained more than 1,000 members and in October 2007 began negotiating its first post-storm contract with the Orleans Parish school board (OPSB).\n\nUTNO was founded in 1937, but for a quarter of a century it struggled. Unions in the city were segregated, and the organization's black membership (affiliated with the AFT) was unable to accomplish much. In 1948, union president Veronica B. Hill was elected an AFT vice president. In 1954, after the AFT amended its constitution to require integrated locals, the affiliate integrated—although most white teachers in New Orleans still belonged to the NEA.\n\nThe formation of the United Federation of Teachers in New York City in 1961 electrified teachers in the U.S., and collective bargaining gained momentum across the nation and in Louisiana. The AFT formed a state federation, the Louisiana Federation of Teachers, to help counter the strength of the Louisiana Education Association (which opposed collective bargaining and strikes). Both the NEA and AFT teachers' unions in New Orleans, however, pushed the OPSB for the right to bargain collectively. In 1966, the AFT affiliate struck for three days in an attempt to win a contract. But only 10 percent of the city's 5,000 teachers walked off the job.\n\nThe AFT struck New Orleans public schools again in 1969, asking all teachers to follow the union onto the picket line. Nearly 1,000 teachers—almost all of them black, and members of the AFT—walked out. Unfortunately, the only schools that closed were those with an overwhelmingly African American student body. The national AFT flew in a large number of national organizing staff to save the strike. But other unions in the city refused to honor the strike. After black students in several high schools rioted, the African American community withdrew its support for the union. The strike folded after three weeks.\n\nIn 1972, the AFT and NEA affiliates in New Orleans agreed to merge and form the United Teachers of New Orleans. The union became the first integrated education union in the South. Since the NEA did not permit dual-affiliated locals at the time, the merged union had its charter withdrawn by the NEA. Nat LaCour, a black teacher, was elected to succeed Hill as president of the local. He was elected an AFT vice president in 1974.\n\nIn 1978, the union struck again to win collective bargaining, and this time was successful. With white teachers finally participating in the strike, nearly 3,500 of the school district's 5,000 educators walked out, and two-thirds of the city's children were affected. UTNO had prepared for the strike by working closely with parents and community activists this time, and soon parents began joining the picket line and protesting as well. The strike lasted 12 days before the district agreed to recognize the union and sign a collective bargaining agreement, giving the union a 7 percent pay hike and better health insurance. UTNO became the first teachers' union in the Deep South to win a contract without the protection of a state public employee collective bargaining law.\n\nUTNO did not strike again until 1990. Once more, the issue was pay. And, once more, two-thirds of the city's teachers walked off the job. The strike lasted three weeks, and again the union was successful in winning substantial pay increases.\n\nIn 1998, LaCour was elected executive vice president of the AFT, and he retired as UTNO president. Brenda Mitchell was elected to succeed him.\n\nOver the years, UTNO organized a wide variety of school workers in addition to teachers. Custodians, bus drivers, cafeteria workers and school nurses all belonged to the union. The union's membership stood at over 7,500 members in August 2005, making UTNO the largest union in the city and the state. The union's political power was so great that it could often make or break political careers not only in New Orleans but in many parts of the state.\n\nThe biggest issue facing the union in the 1990s and early 2000s was the quality of education. The dropout rate in city schools was very high, particularly among African American children, and few minority public school graduates went on to higher education. New Orleans students also tested very low on a number of reading, math, science and other measures. UTNO argued that New Orleans students suffered from severe poverty, malnutrition, poor health care and domestic violence, all of which significantly impaired their ability to learn. The school district was chronically underfunded and financially mismanaged, and leadership turnover was high (with nine interim or permanent superintendents in 10 years). The solution, the union argued, was for significantly higher levels of funding for the schools and other public social services agencies. Critics, however, said that the union was a significant part of the problem. The union's collective bargaining agreement protected incompetent teachers; made it difficult to adopt an innovative curriculum; failed to reward good teaching; established onerous work rules; and generated large amounts of paperwork, which took clerical staff and aides out of the classroom.\n\nIn 2003, the Louisiana State Legislature created the Recovery School District (RSD). The legislation established a School Performance Score (SPS). The SPS was a composite evaluation based on the scores of one of three student performance exams, the school's dropout rate, and the school's attendance rate. A school was labeled \"academically unacceptable\" (AU) if it failed to achieve a minimum SPS score of 45. (In 2004, the legislature raised the minimum SPS score to 60.) Any school designated as AU for four consecutive years was classified as \"failing\" and eligible for state takeover. However, a failing school could be transferred to the RSD only if a private organization agreed to assume management of the school and turn it into a charter school.\n\nAfter two years, only five New Orleans public schools had been transferred to the RSD.\n\nOn August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina hit the city of New Orleans.\n\nUTNO members, about to begin the school year, received their first and last two-week paycheck on September 1, 2005. With no tax revenue flowing into OPSB coffers, the school district cancelled further paychecks and all insurance for New Orleans education workers.\n\nHurricane Katrina also left 100 of New Orleans' 128 school buildings heavily damaged.\n\nReacting to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina, on November 22, 2005, the Louisiana legislature passed Act 35 and took over the New Orleans public school system. Eleven of the 20 state representatives from Orleans Parish voted against the takeover plan.\n\nAct 35 changed the definition of a failing public school and the terms under which the state could assume of a school. First, the definition of a failing SPS score was defined as \"below the state average.\" In the 2004-05 school year, the state average was 87.4. Thus, Act 35 substantially raised the bar for low-performing schools. Second, Act 35 expanded the state's takeover authority to entire school districts (rather than individual schools). Act 35 defined a failing school district as one with more than 30 failing schools, or one where at least 50 percent of students attended AU schools.\n\nAct 35 applied almost exclusively to Orleans Parish. Only 14 of Louisiana's 64 school districts had more than 30 schools, and almost none of them had the requisite number of AU schools or percentage of students in AU school to meet the new definition of a \"failing\" school district.\n\nTo UTNO leaders, Act 35 seemed aimed squarely at them. Conservative state legislators appeared to be using the Hurricane Katrina crisis to break the union in the name of quality education. \"The changes in the SPS standard, the addition of a 30-school threshold provision and the timing of this change strongly suggest that state officials were intent on assuming control of most OPSB public schools. This view is also supported by the fact that although there are 'failing' schools in three other Louisiana school districts, state officials have not initiated a takeover of any of those schools.\"\n\nAct 35 had a significant effect on the Orleans Parish School Board's functioning. The RSD took over 112 schools, operating 95 of them directly and permitting 17 others to be run by charter school organizations. The Louisiana State Board of Elementary and Secondary Education took over two other public schools, turning them over to charter school operators as well. OPSB retained control over only 18 schools. To obtain federal funding to repair and reopen these schools, OPSB turned 13 of the schools over to a single charter school operator, the Algiers Charter School Association. Only five schools remained under the direct control of OPSB.\n\nWhether intended to do so or not, Act 35 broke the United Teachers of New Orleans. With so few schools under its control, OPSB fired all teachers and other city education personnel on January 31, 2006. On February 1, 2006, UTNO filed suit to force the city to open more public schools. Another suit attempted to win back-pay as a result of Act 35 layoffs, while a third sought contractually required disaster pay, lost sick days, employer-paid health care premiums, and additional employer contributions to the union's health and welfare funds. When the union's collective bargaining agreement expired in June 2006, the OPSB declined to renegotiate the agreement.\n\nAs of late December 2006, only 27,066 of New Orleans' pre-Katrina student population of 66,372 had returned. Only 54 schools were open, with 20 of these operated by OPSB, charter schools approved by OPSB or charter schools approved by the state board of education. The remaining 34 schools were operated by the RSD, and 74 schools remained closed.\n\nAs New Orleans and other nearby cities struggled to recover from Hurricane Katrina, UTNO sought to reinsert itself into policy- and decision-making in the OPSB, RSD, Algiers Charter School Association and other independent charter schools. With RSD facing a shortage of 500 teachers in the 2007-2008 school year, UTNO pledged to help recruit teachers. UTNO tied its cooperation, however, to increased job security for teachers. In April 2007, UTNO attempted to re-establish a collective bargaining relationship with the Orleans Parish School Board. Although the union represented 170 of the parish's approximately 245 teachers and other employeers, the school board declined to open negotiations, citing the continuing lawsuits against the school board.\n\nThe union also undertook a number of initiatives in 2007 to rebuild its influence. When a charter school board suspended its director, principal and four others after parents and teachers accused them of inflicting unduly harsh corporal punishment on students and summarily firing teachers, UTNO argued that the incident was a prime example of why a collective bargaining agreement with due process and grievance provisions was necessarily. The union also began staging small, regular demonstrations throughout the city to protest the lack of a contract and publicize problems in the various public and private schools. The union also began pushing for re-unification of the various schools and districts under one management structure, which the union claimed would help stabilize the district and provide more uniform administrative and teaching policies. It would also help rebuild union membership more quickly if collective bargaining resumed.\n\nThe union's actions appeared to pay off. OPSB Superintendent Paul Vallas made public appearances with UTNO President Brenda Mitchell, and asked for the union to partner with the district in improving education. Mitchell offered a conciliatory response, saying that UTNO stood \"ready to work with the new superintendent to turn this district around.\" In October 2007, the union and OPSB settled lawsuits the union filed the previous year. The school board agreed to pay $1,000 each of its 6,800 employees fired after Hurricane Katrina and to contribute $200,000 to the union to administer the payouts. In exchange, the union ended five lawsuits against the OPSB, and dropped three arbitrations involving the school district. The OPSB also agreed to negotiate a new contract with UTNO as part of the settlement. The union dropped the School Board as a defendant in a sixth suit, while continuing its case against the Louisiana Board of Elementary and Secondary Education and the Louisiana Department of Education. The union's membership rose dramatically as the AFT devoted large amounts of organizing and other assistance to the local union. There is some disagreement about just how many members the union had, however. Union president Mitchell said the local had 900 members during the 2006-2007 school year. But a union spokesperson said the union had more than 1,000 members in June 2007. It is unclear how many of these members are teachers, however. About 1,000 teachers were employed by OPSB in August 2007.\n\nUTNO continued to criticize the performance of the charter schools in New Orleans. In October 2007, the union issued a report, \"Reading, Writing and Reality Check,\" which claimed that LEAP test scores (the state's yearly assessment of progress) in charter schools were no higher than in public schools. Rather, UTNO said, LEAP scores were highest in schools that had more veteran teachers. The National Alliance for Public Charter Schools challenged the reports conclusions, although the group also agreed that the RSD had far more organizational and financial problems than the charter schools (which could account for the RSD's poorer performance).\n\nIn January 2008, negotiations finally opened with the OPSB on a new collective bargaining contract. The OPSB unanimously elected Torin Sanders, a union supporter, president of the board. Sanders replaced Phyllis Landrieu, a former OPSB president and strong supporter of charter schools.\n\nIn February 2008, the union claimed supermajorities among eligible staff in both OPSB and RSD-run schools.\n\n\n"}
