{"id": "1863603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863603", "title": "Abrahadabra", "text": "Abrahadabra\n\nAbrahadabra is a word that first publicly appeared in \"The Book of the Law\" (1904), the central sacred text of Thelema. Its author, Aleister Crowley, described it as \"the Word of the Aeon, which signifieth The Great Work accomplished.\" This is in reference to his belief that the writing of \"Liber Legis\" (another name for \"The Book of the Law\") heralded a new Aeon for mankind that was ruled by the god Ra-Hoor-Khuit (a form of Horus). Abrahadabra is, therefore, the \"magical formula\" of this new age. It is not to be confused with the Word of the Law of the Aeon, which is \"Thelema\", meaning \"Will\".\n\nCrowley replaced the 'C' in \"Abracadabra\" with an 'H', which the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn in their Neophyte ritual linked with Breath and Life as well as with the god Horus. Aleister Crowley had taken the place of Horus or the Hierus officer in the Golden Dawn's Neophyte ritual, which means that he personally gave the response explaining the meaning of the letter 'H'.\n\nCrowley explains in his essay \"Gematria\" that he changed the magick word to include 'H' because of qabalistic methods. He appears to say that this happened before his January 1901 meeting with Oscar Eckenstein, one of his teachers. At this meeting, Eckenstein ordered Crowley to put aside magick for the moment, and to practice meditation or concentration. In \"Gematria\", Crowley says he took great interest in Abrahadabra, and its qabalistic number 418, at the time someone ordered him to \"abandon the study of magic and the Qabalah\". In the Book of Thoth, Crowley refers to Abrahadabra as a 'cypher' of the Great Work.\n\nThe word \"Abrahadabra\" appears repeatedly in the 1904 invocation of Horus that preceded the writing of \"Liber Legis\" and led to the founding of Thelema. It also appears in a May 1901 diary that Crowley published in \"The Equinox\".\n\nThe essay \"Gematria\" gives Hindu, Christian, and \"Unsectarian\" versions of the problem that Crowley intended this magick word to answer. He also gives a qabalistic equivalent for each phrasing, and a brief symbolic answer for each. The unsectarian version reads, \"I am the finite square; I wish to be one with the infinite circle.\" Its equivalent refers to \"the Cross of Extension\" and \"the infinite Rose.\" Crowley's numerological explanation of \"ABRAHADABRA\" focuses mainly on this last formulation and the answer to it.\n\n\"Abrahadabra\" is also referred to as the \"Word of Double Power\". More specifically, it represents the uniting of the Microcosm with the Macrocosm—represented by the pentagram and the hexagram, the rose and the cross, the circle and the square, the 5 and the 6 (etc.), as also called the attainment of the Knowledge and Conversation of one's Holy Guardian Angel. In \"Commentaries\" (1996), Crowley says that the word is a symbol of the \"establishment of the pillar or phallus of the Macrocosm...in the void of the Microcosm.\"\n\nAs with most things found in the mystical works of Aleister Crowley, the word \"Abrahadabra\" can be examined using the qabalistic method of gematria, which is a form of numerology, whereby correspondences are made based on numerical values.\n\n\nIn Aramaic this word roughly translates into \"I will create as I speak.\" (see Abracadabra)\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1645921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1645921", "title": "Against Apion", "text": "Against Apion\n\nAgainst Apion ( and ; Latin \"Contra Apionem\" or \"In Apionem\") was a polemical work written by Flavius Josephus as a defense of Judaism as a classical religion and philosophy against criticism by Apion, stressing its antiquity against what he perceived as more recent traditions of the Greeks. \"Against Apion\" cites Josephus' earlier work Antiquities of the Jews, so can be dated after C.E. 94. It was most likely written in the early second century.\n\n\"Against Apion\" 1:8 also defines which books Josephus viewed as being in the Jewish Scriptures:\n\nIn the second book, Josephus defends the historicity of the Jewish Bible against accusations made by Apion (who Josephus states is not Greek), arguing that Apion in fact rehashes material of Manetho's, though there was apparently some confusion between Manetho's references to the Hyksos and the Hebrews.\n\nJosephus on Apion's blood libel (\"Against Apion\" 2:8):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4411909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411909", "title": "Aniconism in Christianity", "text": "Aniconism in Christianity\n\nChristianity has not generally practised aniconism, or the avoidance or prohibition of types of images, but has had an active tradition of making and venerating images of God and other religious figures. However, there are periods of aniconism in Christian history, notably during the controversy of the Byzantine iconoclasm of the 8th century, and following the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century, when Calvinism in particular rejected all images in churches, and this practice continues today in Reformed (Calvinist) churches, as well as some forms of fundamentalist Christianity. The Catholic Church has always defended the use of sacred images in churches, shrines, and homes, encouraging their veneration but condemning anyone who would worship them as if they were gods themselves. \n\nThe use of religious icons and images continues to be advocated at the highest level by religious leaders of major Christian denominations such as Lutherans, Methodists, Anglicans and Catholics. The veneration of icons is also a key element of the doxology of the Eastern Orthodox Church. The Catholic Church and Eastern Orthodox Church accept the church council which condemned iconoclasm and mandated the use of sacred images, the icons of saints, and the crucifix in churches, public shrines, and in homes. The explanation of the consistency of sacred images with the Christian religion was largely based on the arguments of St. John Damascene.\n\nChristian aniconism has only very rarely covered general secular images, unlike aniconism in Islam; Anabaptist groups such as the Amish are rare exceptions.\n\nSeveral voices in Early Christianity expressed \"grave reservations about the dangers of images\", though contextualizing these remarks has often been the source of fierce controversy, as the same texts were brought out at intervals in succeeding centuries. Ernst Kitzinger described the mentions of Christian views on Christian images before the mid-6th century as \"scattered and spotty\", and of an earlier period wrote: It is a striking fact that when painting and sculpture first began to infiltrate Christian assembly rooms and cemeteries they did so practically unheeded by either opponents of or apologists for Christianity—engaged though these were in passionate disputes over idols and idolatry. No literary statement from the period prior to the year 300 would make one suspect the existence of any Christian images other than the most laconic and hieroglyphic of symbols.\n\n— and yet from archaeology it is clear that the use of quite complex figurative Christian images was widespread by that date. There are mentions of images of Jesus from the 2nd century onwards. The Catacombs of Rome contain the earliest images, mostly painted, but also including reliefs carved on sarcophagi, dating from the end of the 2nd century onwards. Jesus is often represented by pictogram symbols, though he is also portrayed. In the Dura-Europos church, of about 230-256, which of the very early churches surviving is in the best condition, there are frescos of biblical scenes including a figure of Jesus, as well as Christ as the Good Shepherd.\n\nThe traditional Protestant position on the history of images in places of worship however is expressed by Phillip Schaff, 'Yet previous to the time of Constantine we find no trace of an image of Christ properly speaking except among the Gnostic Carpocratians and in the case of the heathen emperor Alexander Severus who adorned his domestic chapel as a sort of pantheistic Pantheon with representatives of all religions. The above mentioned idea of the uncomely personal appearance of Jesus the entire silence of the Gospels about it and the Old Testament prohibition of images restrained the church from making either pictures or statues of Christ until the Nicene age when a great reaction in this respect took place though not without energetic and long continued opposition.\n\nPaul Corby Finney's analysis of Early Christian writing and material remains distinguishes three different sources of attitudes affecting Early Christians on the issue: \"first that humans could have a direct vision of God; second that they could not; and, third, that although humans could see God they were best advised not to look, and were strictly forbidden to represent what they had seen\". These derived respectively from Greek and Near Eastern pagan religions, from Ancient Greek philosophy, and from the Jewish tradition and the Old Testament. Of the three, Finney concludes that \"overall, Israel's aversion to sacred images influenced early Christianity considerably less than the Greek philosophical tradition of invisible deity apophatically defined\", so placing less emphasis on the Jewish background of most of the first Christians than most traditional accounts.\n\nImages were also associated with the idolatry of the pagan Ancient Roman religion and other cults and religions around them, and much early Christian polemic was devoted to attacking paganism for idolatry. In the 1st century the issues are discussed in the Letters of St. Paul and a prohibition of idolatry is included in the Apostolic Decree. The objections to \"decorative and symbolic devices, narrative and didactic images\", a description that encompasses much though not all of the earliest Christian art, were much less, as these were not plausibly capable of \"idolatric abuse\"; according to Kitzinger, \"much of the art of the Roman catacombs betrays a studied attempt to avoid any suspicion or encouragement of idolatric practices\". Jocelyn Toynbee agrees:\"In two-dimensional, applied art of this kind there was never any danger of idolatry in the sense of actual worship of cult-images and votive pictures\".\n\nIn the 4th century there are increased, if scattered, expressions of opposition to images. At the Spanish non-ecumenical Synod of Elvira (c. 305) bishops concluded, \"Pictures are not to be placed in churches, so that they do not become objects of worship and adoration\", the earliest such prohibition known. Eusebius (died 339) wrote a letter to Constantia (Emperor Constantine's sister) saying \"To depict purely the human form of Christ before its transformation, on the other hand, is to break the commandment of God and to fall into pagan error\"; though this did not stop her decorating her mausoleum with such images. By the end of the century Bishop Epiphanius of Salamis (died 403) \"seems to have been the first cleric to have taken up the matter of Christian religious images as a major issue\". He wrote an appeal to John, Bishop of Jerusalem (c. 394) in which he recounted how he tore apart a curtain hanging on the doors of the church decorated with an image of 'Christ or one of the saints' and admonished the other bishop that such images are \"opposed ... to our religion\", while also replacing the curtain with another expensively embroidered one. Other writers cited in later controversies were Clement of Alexandria, Tertullian, and Lactantius, although evidence of opposition to images by church leaders is often also evidence of their usage in the church.\n\nIt has been suggested that the question of images caused a tension in the early church between a theologically-trained clerical elite and the broad mass of followers of the church, and perhaps especially women; the letter of Eusebius being a leading piece of evidence cited here. However other scholars, including Finney and Toynbee, dispute this reading of the documentary evidence, pointing out that the physical evidence of sites such as the Catacomb of Callistus suggests that \"church authorities at least tolerated if not approved both the decoration and the content of the iconography on its own property over a fairly long period of time\".\n\nThere is some evidence that the use of images was regarded as especially characteristic of heretics. Irenaeus, (c. 130–202) in his \"Against Heresies\" (1:25;6) says scornfully of the Gnostic Carpocratians, \"They also possess images, some of them painted, and others formed from different kinds of material; while they maintain that a likeness of Christ was made by Pilate at that time when Jesus lived among them. They crown these images, and set them up along with the images of the philosophers of the world that is to say, with the images of Pythagoras, and Plato, and Aristotle, and the rest. They have also other modes of honouring these images, after the same manner of the Gentiles [pagans]\". Irenaeus does not speak critically of icons or portraits in a general sense, only of certain gnostic sectarians use of icons. On the other hand, by the 8th century there is evidence that opposition to images was associated with what was by then the largely vanished heresy of Arianism, though the historical evidence for this now appears slender, and important early figurative mosaics in Italy were created under Arian rule.\n\nHowever, as Christianity increasingly spread among gentiles with traditions of religious images, and especially after the conversion of Constantine (c. 312), the legalization of Christianity, and, later that century, the establishment of Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire, many new people came into the new large public churches, which began to be decorated with images that certainly drew in part on imperial and pagan imagery: \"The representations of Christ as the Almighty Lord on his judgment throne owed something to pictures of Zeus. Portraits of the Mother of God were not wholly independent of a pagan past of venerated mother-goddesses. In the popular mind the saints had come to fill a role that had been played by heroes and deities.\" The possibility that Christian art was a movement from below, disapproved of by the clerical hierarchy, vanishes in the large churches built with imperial patronage at the urging of that hierarchy.\n\nThe earliest literary evidence of \"proskynesis\" before images comes from the first half of the 6th century; it had already been common before the cross by the end of the 4th century. The lighting of candles before images, and leaving lit candles and lamps (going beyond what might merely be necessary to actually see them) is mentioned in 6th century sources.\n\nThe period after the reign of Justinian (527-565) evidently saw a huge increase in the use of images, both in volume and quality, and a gathering aniconic reaction. According to Kitzinger, \"during the late sixth and seventh centuries devotional practices in front of images became elaborate, common, and intense\". In addition it was in this period that images seem to have become common in Christian homes, and \"Once admitted to that sphere their use and abuse was beyond control\". Literary mentions of Christian images greatly increase, in the accounts of pilgrims to the Holy Land, in works of history, and in popular accounts of the lives of saints; at the same time some of these begin to mention acts of iconoclasm against images. The legendary nature of much of the last two types of material is clear, but the stories remain evidence of practices around images and beliefs as to what images were capable of.\n\nIt is this period that the attribution to individual images of the potential to achieve, channel or display various forms of spiritual grace or divine power becomes a regular motif in literature. In the many miracle stories, there is a \"tendency to break down the barrier between image and prototype\", so that \"the image acts or behaves as the subject itself is expected to act or behave. It makes known its wishes ... It enacts evangelical teachings, ... When attacked it bleeds, ... [and] In some cases it defends itself against infidels with physical force ...\". Images make promises, and demand that promises made by others are kept, are immune to attack, and most commonly of all, images bestow \"some kind of material benefit upon ... votaries\". The most famous example of this is the role ascribed to the Image of Edessa (or Mandylion) in the failure of the Persian siege of the city in 544. The image is not mentioned in the account of Procopius, writing soon after the event, but first appears as the agent of the failure in the history of Evagrius Scholasticus of about 593. Though most often images are described as acting through some kind of intermediary, sometimes direct physical contact produces the benefit, as with a dry well that refilled when an icon was lowered in the bucket, or medical benefit ascribed to drinking some ground-up plaster from a fresco in water.\n\nIn the 6th century Julian of Atramytion objected to sculpture, but not paintings, which is effectively the Orthodox position to the present day, except for small works.\n\nThere were two periods of iconoclasm, or image destruction, in the Byzantine Empire, in the mid eighth and early ninth centuries. The arguments of the Iconoclasts remain rather obscure, as almost all their writings were destroyed after the \"Triumph of Orthodoxy\". The simple belief that images were idolatrous appears to have been their main motive; reference was made to the prohibitions on the worship of graven images in the Mosaic Law, and aniconic statements by the Church Fathers, some of which may now be lost. One theological issue revolved around the two natures of Jesus. Iconoclasts believed that icons could not represent both the divine and the human natures of the Messiah at the same time, but separately. Because an icon which depicted Jesus as purely physical would be Nestorianism, and one which showed Him as both human and divine would not be able to do so without confusing the two natures into one mixed nature, which was Monophysitism, all icons were thus heretical.\n\nThe political aspects of the conflicts are complex, involving with the relationship between the Byzantine Emperors, the Orthodox Church councils, and the Pope. There has been much scholarly discussion over the possible influence on the Iconoclasts of the aniconism in Islam, the century-old religion which had inflicted devastating defeats on Byzantium in the decades preceding. Most scholars reject direct religious influence, though many feel the feeling of crisis produced by defeats at the hands of Islam contributed to the Iconoclast movement. Both the cross and secular two-dimensional images continued to be acceptable, indeed were used to replace religious imagery in the two best-known examples. The defeat of Byzantine Iconoclasm was so emphatic that the issue has never arisen again in Orthodoxy.\n\nFigurative monumental sculpture was still avoided in the West until the time of Charlemagne around 800; the Franks had no association of sculpture with cult images and a life-size crucifix (with \"corpus\") known to have been in the Palatine Chapel, Aachen was probably a pivotal work, opening the way to the free general use of large sculpture. This was contemporary with the Byzantine iconoclasm (see below). Religious sculpture, especially if large and free-standing, has always been extremely rare in Eastern Christianity. The Western church was anxious to distinguish its use of images from idolatry, and set out its theological position in the Carolingian Libri Carolini, in similar but slightly different terms to those set out by the Eastern church after the episode of Iconoclasm.\n\nIn his travels through the Auvergne between 1007 and 1020 the cleric Bernard of Angers was initially disapproving of the large crucifixes with a sculpted three-dimensional \"corpus\", and other religious statues that he saw, but he came to accept them. The Gero Cross, the earliest life-size crucifix image to survive, probably dates to around 960. \n\nThe depiction of God the Father in art long remained unacceptable; he was typically only shown with the features of Jesus, which had become fairly standardized by the 6th century, in scenes such as the Garden of Eden. The rationale for this was the doctrine of the pre-existing Christ or \"Logos\", which holds that Christ has existed from the beginning of time. Very simply put, as a member of the Holy Trinity of three persons in one God, representations of God could be achieved by depicting Jesus as \"Logos\", except in the few cases where both Jesus and God the Father needed to be shown separately, as in scenes of the Baptism of Jesus. Alternatively God the Father was represented only by the Hand of God, which probably reached Christian art from Hellenistic Judaism, as it is prominent in the wall paintings of the 3rd century Dura-Europos synagogue in Syria. Depictions of God the Father, essentially as the Old Testament Ancient of Days, only became common in the West from about 1200 onwards, and remain controversial in Eastern Orthodoxy, still being prohibited by the Russian Orthodox Church for example (where images of the Ancient of Days, also banned, are held to represent Christ). Free-standing monumental sculpture is also avoided by the Orthodox churches, and reliefs are much rarer, especially large ones. On the other hand, icons have a slightly different theological position in Orthodoxy and play a more significant part in religious life than in Roman Catholicism, let alone the Protestant churches.\n\nBernard of Clairvaux (1090–1153) was an influential Cistercian monk who famously wrote against the excessive use of imagery in a monastic context, and was largely responsible for the unornamented style of Cistercian architecture. However his attack concentrated on what he saw as frivolous non-religious elements in the Romanesque religious art of his day, which he said distracted monks from their religious life. Nonetheless, he was prepared to sacrifice religious imagery also, both to save money and avoid \"distractions of the senses\",\n\nIn the Church of the East, also known as the Nestorian church, opposition to religious images eventually became the norm due to the rise of Islam in the region, where it forbade any type of depictions of Saints and biblical prophets. As such, the Church was forced to get rid of their icons.\n\nOpposition to religious imagery was a feature of proto-Protestant movements such as the Lollards in England.\n\nThe Reformation produced two main branches of Protestant Christianity; one was the Evangelical Lutheran churches, which followed the teachings of Martin Luther, and the other the Reformed Churches, which followed the ideas of John Calvin and Huldrych Zwingli. Out of these branches grew three main sects, the Lutheran tradition, as well as the Continental Reformed and Anglican traditions, the latter two following the Reformed (Calvinist) faith. Lutherans and Reformed Christians had different views regarding religious imagery.\nFor Lutherans, \"the Reformation renewed rather than removed the religious image\", at least temporarily. The Lutheran Divine Service occurred in ornate churches, reflecting their high view of the Eucharist. Lutherans employed the use of the crucifix as it highlighted Martin Luther's theology of the cross. Lutheran altarpieces, such as Last Supper by Lucas Cranach the Elder, were commissioned, although they now served a dual purpose of exciting the mind to thoughts of the Divine, as well as serving to teach Lutheran doctrine. The altarpiece in St. Peter und Paul, Weimar exemplified the doctrine of the communion of saints by showing Luther and Cranach \"alongside John the Baptist at the foot of the cross\". Lutherans strongly opposed the iconoclastic campaigns of the Reformed. But within a few decades of the start of the Reformation production of new paintings for Lutheran churches had all but ceased, and large religious sculpture had never been produced on for Lutherans, as opposed to smaller figures decorating pulpits and other fittings.\n\nOn the contrary, at the time of the Reformation, Calvinists preached in violent terms the rejection of what they perceived as idolatrous Catholic practices such as religious pictures, statues, or relics of saints, as well as against the Lutheran retention of sacred art. Andreas Karlstadt was the earliest extreme iconoclast, to be followed by Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin. The Reformed (Calvinist) churches (including the Anglican, Puritan/Congregational and Reformed Baptist Churches) completely prohibited the display of religious images. Reformed theologians such as Francis Turretin, Theodore Beza, the Divines of the Westminster Assembly, and later Robert Dabney and John Murray, explicitly reject the depiction of Christ, citing arguments drawn from the second commandment, as well as writings of the early church, using the same texts and arguments as Byzantine iconoclasts. The Calvinist Westminster Larger Catechism of 1647 asks in Question 109, 'What are the sins forbidden in the second commandment?\nAnswer: The sins forbidden in the second commandment are, all devising, counseling, commanding, using, and anywise approving, any religious worship not instituted by God himself; tolerating a false religion; the making any representation of God, of all or of any of the three persons, either inwardly in our mind, or outwardly in any kind of image or likeness of any creature'.\n\nApart from official destruction of art, there were outbreaks of violent Calvinist iconoclasm such as the Beeldenstorm in the Low Countries in 1566. During this time, Anglicanism, falling with the broader Reformed tradition, also removed most religious images and symbols from churches and discouraged their private use. Elizabeth I of England was one of many Anglicans to exhibit somewhat contradictory attitudes, both ordering a crucifix for her chapel when they were against a law she had approved, and objecting forcefully when the Dean of St Paul's put in the royal pew a service book with \"cuts resembling angels and saints, nay, grosser absurdities, pictures resembling the Holy Trinity\". Many Reformed churches are now considerably more relaxed over the use of religious art and symbols than they were in the Reformation period, though many denominations avoid images in churches, and in the Anglican Church matters such as the use of altar crosses and crucifixes can arouse strong feelings. However while portraits of saints were destroyed, portraits of contemporary individuals, including church leaders, were not considered problematic, and exist in large numbers. Reformed Christians did not object to small religious images, typically of episodes from the New Testament, in the form of prints, and Bible illustrations or picture books, especially those intended for children, were and continue to be widely used in Protestantism, so that in the 17th century, even \"the ordinary Puritan enjoyed a Bible with pictures\". \n\nFaced with the Protestant challenge to imagery, then far more virulent than it usually is today, the Catholic Counter-Reformation reacted by quietly removing some types of medieval imagery that could not be justified theologically, but otherwise by strengthening its commitment to the use of art and images to promote the Christian message, though tightening up on the detailed content of imagery, which was brought under stricter control by the church.\n\nThe virtual end of the production of religious painting in Reformed parts of Europe had the effect of diverting artistic production into secular subjects, especially in Dutch Golden Age painting of the 17th century. While Catholic Europe was still producing Baroque altarpieces in large numbers, the Netherlands produced genre scenes, very often of ungodly behavior, still lifes, portraits and landscapes. Moralistic messages were often attached to these, though the subject matter often fights somewhat with them. Protestant religious art, mainly in the form of illustrations of biblical events, continued in printmaking and book illustrations, for example in the etchings of Rembrandt, who also painted biblical subjects. In the early stages of the Reformation, Protestant propagandists made vigorous use of images satirizing their opponents.\n\nLutheran Churches continue to be ornate, with respect to sacred art:\nCalvinist aniconism, especially in printed material, and stained glass, can generally be said to have weakened in force, although the range and context of images used are much more restricted than in Catholicism, Lutheranism, or parts of Anglicanism, the latter of which also incorporated many high church practices after the Oxford Movement. \n\nThe Methodist and Pentecostal traditions, as well as other Wesleyan-Arminian Evangelical churches, are inspired by the Moravian rather than Calvinist tradition, and are therefore readier to use large crosses and other images, though not with the profusion of traditional Catholicism or Lutheranism. Hence works like the 52 ft tall \"Lux Mundi\" statue in Ohio. Bob Jones University, a standard bearer for Protestant Fundamentalism, has a major collection of Baroque old master Catholic altarpieces proclaiming the Counter-Reformation message, though these are in a gallery, rather than in a church.\n\nThe Amish and some other Mennonite groups continue to avoid photographs or any depictions of people; their children's dolls usually have blank faces. The Brethren in Christ, another branch of Anabaptism, rejected all use of photography until the mid-20th century.\n\nThe Iglesia ni Cristo (Church of Christ) and Members Church of God International, Philippines-based sects with Restorationist-like beliefs, also explicitly forbid the use of any religious image, including the crucifix.\n\nThe use of icons and images of Jesus continues to be advocated by the highest-ranking religious leaders of major Christian denominations such as Lutherans, Anglicans, Methodists and Catholics. The veneration of icons is a key element of the doxology of the Eastern Orthodox Church which continues to celebrate the Feast of Orthodoxy which originally marked the end of iconoclasm and the reintroduction of images into churches.\n\nIn his 2003 book on praying with icons of Christ, Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams referred to 2 Corinthians 4.6: \"the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ\" and wrote that meditation on the icons of Christ \"gives us the power to see all things freshly\". Williams states that the arguments in favor of the use of images of Christ eventually won over iconoclasm among Christians at large because the use of icons is \"so closely connected with the most essential beliefs of Christians about Jesus Christ himself\".\nIn his 29 October 1997 general audience, Pope John Paul II reiterated the statement of \"Lumen gentium\", 67 that: \"the veneration of images of Christ, the Blessed Virgin and the saints, be religiously observed\". In his 6 May 2009 general audience Pope Benedict XVI referred to the reasoning used by John of Damascus who wrote: \"In other ages God had not been represented in images, being incorporate and faceless. But since God has now been seen in the flesh, and lived among men, I represent that part of God which is visible. I do not venerate matter, but the Creator of matter\" and stated that it forms part of the theological basis for the veneration of images. The use of significant representations of Jesus has continued among Catholics, e.g. with the 2008 parishioner funded 50 foot statue of Jesus in Mindanao, Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "620653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620653", "title": "Apollodorus of Athens", "text": "Apollodorus of Athens\n\nApollodorus of Athens (, \"Apollodōros ho Athēnaios\"; c. 180 BC – after 120 BC) son of Asclepiades, was a Greek scholar, historian and grammarian. He was a pupil of Diogenes of Babylon, Panaetius the Stoic, and the grammarian Aristarchus of Samothrace. He left (perhaps fled) Alexandria around 146 BC, most likely for Pergamon, and eventually settled in Athens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3803654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3803654", "title": "Archipheracite", "text": "Archipheracite\n\nArchipheracite was the name of the ministers of Jewish synagogues, who were charged with reading and interpreting the perakim, where the titles and chapters of the law and the prophets are found. The archipheracite was not the same as the archisynagogus, as Grotius and other have mistakenly believed, but rather the chief or principal of these appointed to read, explain, and profess the law in their schools. As the name shows, it is formed of the Greek , \"chief\", and the Hebrew or Chaldee , \"pherak\", division or chapter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2347550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347550", "title": "Bahá'í Faith and gender equality", "text": "Bahá'í Faith and gender equality\n\nOne of the fundamental teachings of the Bahá'í Faith is that men and women are equal, and that equality of the sexes is a spiritual and moral standard that is essential for the unification of the planet and the unfoldment of peace. Bahá'í teachings note the importance of implementing this principle in individual, family, and community life. Nevertheless, the Bahá'í notion of the full spiritual and social equality of the two sexes does not imply sameness, so that gender distinction and differentiation are observed in certain areas of life. For example, while women can and do serve in an extensive range of elected and appointed positions within the faith at both national and international levels, they are not permitted to serve as members of the Universal House of Justice, the supreme governing institution of the Bahá'í Faith. Furthermore, the education of daughters is held to be more important than, and therefore to take precedence over, that of sons.\n\nThe equality of men and women is a fundamental Bahá'í principle, that is explicit in the writings of Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, and particularly in the writings and discourses of `Abdu'l-Bahá, his son and chosen interpreter. The teaching and its vision of the community is central to Bahá'í community life as is implemented at a practical level. The Bahá'í teachings state that women are not inferior to men, and should not be subordinate to men in aspects of social life. In the Bahá'í view, women have always been equal to men, and the reason why women have so far not achieved this equality is due to the lack of adequate educational and social opportunities, and because men have used their greater physical strength to prevent women from developing their true potential.\n\nBahá'u'lláh noted that there was no distinction in the spiritual stations of men and women, and that women and men were equal in the sight of God. Bahá'u'lláh wrote:\nInstead of their gender, Bahá'u'lláh wrote that the spiritual station of each person depends on their recognition and devotion to God. `Abdu'l-Bahá stated that God did not differentiate between people based on gender and that all were made in the image of God. He further stated that both women and men have the same potential for intelligence, virtue and prowess.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá stated that gender equality was not simply righting historical social injustices against women, but would serve as a key factor in wide-ranging societal changes that would help develop a new civilization in which more 'feminine' qualities such as tender-heartedness and receptivity would balance previously dominant 'masculine' forces. The Bahá'í writings state that until women are provided equal status to men, humanity cannot advance or progress. `Abdu'l-Bahá in a series of analogies has compared men and women to the two wings of a bird and the two hands of a human body and stated that both need to be strong to allow for advancement. `Abdu'l-Baha wrote:\n\nBoth Bahá'u'lláh and `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote that an important aspect of world unity will be a greater balance between feminine and masculine influences on society, and stated that because of the greater feminine influence that wars will cease and a permanent peace attained. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote that women, as mothers, would be a force in establishing peace as they would oppose sending their children to war. `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote:\n\nMoojan Momen writes that the goal of achieving equality of women and men in the Bahá'í Faith does not amount to bringing women into power in masculine roles, but instead a more radical change to the very nature of society, to make feminine qualities more valued.\n\nIn the Bahá'í view, women have always been equal to men, and the reason why women have not achieved this equality yet is because of the lack of adequate educational and social opportunities. Thus Bahá'í teachings stress the need for women's education, not only as a means to increase opportunity for women to help achieve equality, but also since the education of mothers is essential to the proper upbringing of children. Because of the importance of the education of women, the education of daughters takes precedence over that of sons when financial resources do not exist to educate all of the children of a family. Despite the linkage between motherhood and education, `Abdu'l-Bahá encouraged women to excel in arts and sciences, and stated that women's participation in the political sphere would be a prerequisite for peace.\n\nOver a century ago, Bahá’u'lláh, the Prophet-Founder of the Bahá’í Faith, proclaimed the equality of man and woman. He did not leave this pronouncement as an ideal or pious hope but wove it, as a core element, into the fabric of His social order. He supported it by laws requiring the same standard of education for women as for men, and equality of rights in society. The Baha'i concept of the equality of women and men must be understood in the context of the pivotal principle of the Baha'i Faith—the oneness of humankind. It is a principle that addresses itself to relationships at all levels of society: relationships between individuals, within the family, within the community; relationships between individuals and their respective communities and social institutions; relationships between individuals and the natural environment; as well as relationships among nation states. The vision and the very goal of the Baha'i Faith is the creation of conditions—social, spiritual, and material—that enable the oneness of humanity to be expressed in the structure and relationships at all levels of society.\"Women have equal rights with men upon earth; in religion and society they are a very important element. As long as women are prevented from attaining their highest possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve the greatness which might be theirs.”\"\"\"The world of humanity has two wings—one is women and the other men. Not until both wings are equally developed can the bird fly. Should one wing remain weak, flight is impossible. Not until the world of women becomes equal to the world of men in the acquisition of virtues and perfections, can success and prosperity be attained as they ought to be.”\n\nThere have been a large number of women heroines who are celebrated in the history of the Bahá'í Faith including Khadíjih-Bagum, Táhirih, Navváb, Queen Marie, Bahíyyih Khánum, Martha Root, Leonora Armstrong, Lidia Zamenhof, and many others.\n\nTáhirih was an influential poet and follower of the Bábí faith, the predecessor to the Bahá'í Faith, and often mentioned in Bahá'í literature as an example of courage in the struggle for women's rights. While the writings of Táhirih do not address the issue of women's rights precisely, Táhirih experienced the Báb's revelation as liberating, and broke with Islamic practices that were expected of women, such as appearing in public without a veil at the Conference of Badasht. Her actions which were out of norm caused controversy in the community and some saw her as scandalous or unchaste. To combat the attitudes of the community against Táhirih, the Báb gave her the title Táhirih, meaning the \"pure.\" An unverified quote has been attributed to Táhirih by `Abdu'l-Bahá about her final utterance in 1852: \"You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the emancipation of women.\" According to some scholars this quote is \"perhaps apocryphal\".\n\nBahíyyih Khánum was born in 1846 and was the eldest daughter of Bahá'u'lláh and Ásíyih Khánum. She was entitled \"the Greatest holy Leaf\". She was particularly dear to her father and is seen within the Bahá'í Faith as one of the greatest women to have lived. During World War I, she distributed food, clothing and medical aid to the local population suffering from starvation. During the periods her brother was away in America, and after his death when Shoghi Effendi was named the head of the religion, but away on retreats, Bahíyyih Khánum was empowered as the acting leader of the Bahá'í Faith, which was a rare position for a woman to be in at that time. She died on 15 July 1932 was buried in the Bahá'í gardens below the Bahá'í Arc on Mount Carmel; the Monument of the Greatest Holy Leaf was built in her memory at the Bahá'í World Centre.\n\nIn terms of Bahá'í administration, all positions except for membership on the Universal House of Justice are open to men and women. No specific reason has been given for this exception, but `Abdu'l-Bahá has stated that there is a wisdom for it, which would eventually become clear. The only other field where `Abdu'l-Baha did not extend full and equal participation to women was in military endeavors, since he regarded the taking of human life incompatible with women's role as mothers.\n\nThere are two branches of Bahá'í administration - appointed and elected.\n\nHands of the Cause were a select group of Bahá'ís, appointed for life, whose main function was to propagate and protect the Bahá'í Faith. Unlike the members of the elected institutions and other appointed institutions in the Bahá'í Faith, who serve in those offices, these are considered to have demonstrated sincerity and praiseworthy morals and qualities and achieved a distinguished rank in service to the religion and an overall station above a National Spiritual Assembly as well as individual members of the Universal House of Justice - indeed it is the highest station that could be achieved open to anyone in the religion. The title is no longer given out. The work of the Hands of the Cause is now carried out by the Continental Counsellors and the Auxiliary Boards.\n\nEight out of the fifty known Hands of the Cause were women (in order of appointment):\n\n\nDuring the period between the death of Shoghi Effendi and the election of the Universal House of Justice the Hands of the Cause held a convocation from which they constituted a body of nine from among their number to serve in the Holy Land and to act as Custodians of the Bahá’í Faith, a body which functioned without officers and with a quorum of five, whose duties included taking care of Bahá’í World Center properties and other assets; corresponding with and advising National and Regional Spiritual Assemblies; acting on behalf of the Bahá’í Faith for its protection; and maintaining close contact with the rest of the Hands, who would henceforth devote their time to the successful completion of the goals of the Ten Year Crusade. The Hands of the Cause maintained the number of Custodians, replacing those who died or were unable, for health or personal reasons, to remain at the Bahá’í World Center permanently. Of these nine, 2 women served as Custodians: Amelia Collins and Rúhíyyih Khánum.\n\nThe International Bahá'í Council was nine member council as a precursor to the Universal House of Justice, which replaced it in 1963. In March 1951 Shoghi Effendi began appointing its membership and in 1961 elections were held (and once elections were the rule, Hands of the Cause were exempted from being members.) The women members of the International Bahá'í Council, and their dates of their service were:\n\nAfter the election of the Universal House of Justice, Boards of Counsellors were created in 1973 by appointment who outrank the national assemblies, though individually Counsellors ranked lower than that of the Hands of the Cause. There are 90 counsellors - 81 serving on continental boards and 9 serving at the International Teaching Center. From a picture of a gathering of all Counselors in 2005 a number of them are clearly women. The number counselors acting as members of the International Teaching Center have varied. Initially, excluding the Hands of the Cause (all of whom were initial members.) From 1980 to 2000 there were 9 total counselors and four of them were women. Since 2000 the number of women counselors serving at the ITC has been five of the nine. Not counting the Hands of the Cause, the women and their years of service are:\n\nThe percent of women serving as counselors rose from 24% of 63 counselors in 1980 to 48% of 81 counselors serving worldwide.\n\nWomen serve on National Assemblies. Bahá'í elections are secret ballots and electees are chosen without running for office on plurality up to the number of members of the institution. That women could be elected was in development by 1909 when the Baha'i temple unity executive board was elected in the United States. Of the nine members chosen, three were women, with Corinne True (later appointed as a Hand of the Cause) serving as an officer. The all-male administrative bodies finally were completely dissolved by `Abdu'l-Bahá in his visit to America in 1912. By 1925 the executive board evolved into the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States and Canada. There were specific developments in the eastern Bahá'í communities in 1951. At this time women were allowed to be and were elected according to the rules of Bahá'í administration to local assemblies of the Bahá'í Faith in Egypt. (indeed some were elected officers in 1952.) However, as late as the 1970s one observer could only count two women delegates out of the more than one hundred attending the national Baha'i convention in Teheran. Yet when the members of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Iran were arrested and executed in 1981, the chairperson was a woman, Zhinus Mahmudi. However a statistical review across continents and for the Baha'is world population shows a general upward track of women being elected to national assemblies (see graphs.) A similar pattern exists for women serving in appointed positions.\n\nFor one comparison note that in 1989 Mikhail Gorbachev abandoned the quota for female representation in the Supreme Soviet and the proportion of women immediately fell from 1/3 to 15 percent. And more women than ever before were elected in US Congress in 2009 - 74 women out of 435 (17%) in the House and 17 out of 100 in the Senate. The US Senate reached 19 women in the election of 2012. In Canada women in parliament in 2004 were 24.7% of the members. By 2006 60% of nations had reached only 10% female representation in government while 10% of the countries had reached 30% female representation and use of quotas is common. In 2010 the world average for members of parliaments was 19% though regional averages varied from 23% to 9%. Meanwhile, the world average of women serving on national assemblies had reached rates of 31% as early as 1953, been above 31% continuously since 1996, and reached 39% in 2007, (the last date for which data is currently available) and this inclusive of a period \"growing at least twice as fast as the population of almost every UN region.\"\n\nSome more recent socially or professionally notable women Bahá'ís include:\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith's emphasis is on male-female equality and thus the Bahá'í Faith actively promotes a number of programs with the aim of the advancement of women with greater access for women to health, education, child-care, and business opportunities. In the early 1900s Bahá'í women became active in seeking advancement and were encouraged by `Abdu'l-Baha and were thus able to gain a position of equality in Bahá'í administration. In Iran, education for girls was started by a Bahá'ís leading to the eventual establishment in 1910 of the \"Tarbiyat School for Girls\" which helped train the first generation of Iranian professional women. By the 1970s, while the majority of Iranian women were illiterate, most Bahá'í women could read and write.\n\nSince the International Women's Year in 1975, the Universal House of Justice, the governing body of the Bahá'ís, has repeatedly called national Bahá'í communities to promote the equal participation of women in Bahá'í activities. In 1993, the Bahá'í International Community established the \"Office of the Advancement of Women\" in New York City at the United Nations, and various national communities have also created their own offices. Activities in these programmes include the promotion of girls' education, literacy, rural health care, and income-generating skills.\n\nThe Bahá'í-inspired Tahirih Justice Center and the Barli Vocational Institute for Rural Women in Indore in India are projects that have received particular attention. Layli Miller-Muro founded the Tahirih Justice Center in 1997 following a well-publicized asylum case in which she was involved as a student attorney. Miller-Muro later co-wrote a book with the client she had aided and used her portion of the proceeds for the initial funding of Tahirih. , the organization had assisted more than 4,000 women and children fleeing from a wide variety of abuses. The Barli Vocational Institute for Rural Women was founded in 1985 in India and offers a six-month program for tribal women at its facilities in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. Through June 1996, a total of 769 rural tribal women have been trained at the Institute; the women came from 119 villages, and after returning home to their cities or villages 45% of them established small businesses, 62% are functionally literate or semi-literate (which has motivated people to send their children to school), 42% have started growing vegetables, 97% are using safe drinking water, all the former trainees and many of their male relatives have given up drinking alcohol, and caste prejudices have been eliminated.\n\nWhile the Bahá'í teachings assert the full spiritual and social equality of women to men, there are some aspects of gender distinctiveness or gender differentiation in certain areas of life. One of these aspects relate to the biological fact of potential motherhood for women, and thus the Bahá'í teaching that girls should be given priority in education as they potentially would be the children's first educator. In the same sense, the Bahá'í view of family life gives the right to the mother to be supported by the husband if needed. Similarly, the differences in the provisions of the \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", Bahá'u'lláh's book of laws, where in the case of intestacy it provides slightly more inheritance to men than women, can be seen in the same light.\n\nWhile most of the teachings and laws of the Bahá'í Faith between a man and a woman apply \"mutatis mutandis\" as between a woman and a man, there are some Bahá'í teachings or laws that provide preference to women or men. Menstruating women are exempt from practising the obligatory prayer and from fasting due to biological differences; these exemptions are not compulsory and do not reflect any concepts of ritual impurity. Women also do not have the obligation of making pilgrimage, although they can if they choose; men who are financially able to do so are obliged to make the pilgrimage. In terms of Bahá'í administration, all positions except for membership on the Universal House of Justice are open to men and women. No specific reason has been given for this exception, but `Abdu'l-Bahá has stated that there is a wisdom for it, which would eventually become clear.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá implies that women will become equal in \"sciences and arts, in virtues and perfections\", and are actually superior in \"tenderness of heart and the abundance of mercy and sympathy\" - virtues identified as gaining ascendancy as the world becomes more permeated with feminine ideals to balance the masculine ideals that now dominate.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13010018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13010018", "title": "Barja", "text": "Barja\n\nBarja (, also known as Barja al-Chouf) is a town and municipality in the Chouf District of the Mount Lebanon Governorate in Lebanon. Barja is situated near the Mediterranean coast, 34 kilometers south of Beirut and at the midway point between the latter and Sidon. The town's total land area consists of 729 hectares and its highest point above sea level is documented at 310 meters. Barja had 12,888 registered voters in 2010, and eleven schools with a total of 2,788 students in 2006. Its inhabitants are predominantly Sunni Muslims.\n\nThe name Barja is originally derived from the ancient Greek word 'Taparchia', which means 'cultural center', and the Syriac word 'Burgas', which means 'a series of hills overlooking the sea'.\n\nBuilt during the middle of the 20th century, Barja was renowned for its fertile soil, spring waters, limestone and gravel resources, as well as its strategic location along the coast of Lebanon. Early economic activities included fishing, farming, and light textile manufacturing.\n\nDuring the Lebanese Civil War (1975-1990), hundreds of young men and women emigrated from Barja to various countries such as Australia, Brazil, the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, contributing to the Lebanese diaspora. With the strong support of scholarships from the Rafic Hariri Foundation, these Barja youth were able to pursue higher education and doctoral degrees from a variety of overseas universities.\n\nThe town features antique houses originally built near fresh spring waters that demonstrate traditional architecture. The high street, Al-Ain Avenue, is located between three large hills and overlooks the Mediterranean Sea. It hosts a traditional Souk called 'Zak Zouk', several local restaurants, a popular barber called 'Mounib', and commercial shopping facilities.\n\nSince the turn of the millennium, Barja has experienced rapid westernization. The introduction of telecommunication services such as the internet, mobile phones, and television has contributed to an overall development in the social and economic welfare of locals. The new generation have embraced modern lifestyles and experience new methods of entertainment such as going to cinemas, listening to western music and playing video games.\n\nAs public transportation and mass transit become more abundant, locals are commuting to the capital city Beirut in search for job opportunities. Most Barja residents who live in the capital city return to their hometowns during weekends. However, the rising costs of food and fuel remain a major barrier against the economic growth and development of Barja locals.\n\nBarja enjoys mild Mediterranean climate during summer and winter seasons, as average temperatures vary between 11 - 27 °C. The town is home to pine groves, olive tree orchards, and a variety of outdoor recreational areas.\n\nMuch of the town was destroyed during a devastating earthquake that shook the Chouf District in 1956. However, over the past 50 years the remains of the earthquake have been gradually concealed beneath a layer of modern building development.\n"}
{"id": "24518706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24518706", "title": "Barwar (caste)", "text": "Barwar (caste)\n\nThe Barwar are Hindu caste, found in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The Barwar are a denotified tribe, one of the tribal groupings that was deemed as criminal under the Criminal Tribes Act.\n\nThe community is said to have originated in the Saran district of Bihar. They were expelled from Saran, by the local Raja, and settled in the Awadh region. The Raja of Bast, in Awadh then expelled them again, as they continued their marauding activities in his dominion. They have three subdivisions, the Sawang, Gulam and Tilam. The Sawang group considers itself to be of pure Barwar origin, while the other two groupings are descendents of individuals kidnapped by the Sawang.\n\nThe Barwar historically were a community associated with marauding and plunder. The British colonial authorities made various attempts to suppress their brigandage, With the departure of the British, the community was denotified. The Barwar now have scheduled caste status.\n\nThe 2011 Census of India for Uttar Pradesh showed the Barwar population as 18,105.\n"}
{"id": "58009339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58009339", "title": "Benjamin Feigenbaum", "text": "Benjamin Feigenbaum\n\nBenjamin Feigenbaum (August 12, 1860 – November 10, 1932) was a Polish born Yiddish socialist, newspaper editor, translator, and satirist. Feigenbaum was an associate editor of the Yiddish language papers \"The Forward\", its predecessor \"Di Arbeter Tsaytung,\" and the literary monthly \"Di Tsukunft\" and a pioneer of the Socialist Party of America.\n\nDuring Jewish Holiday of Yom Kippur in 1899, Feigenbaum famously said in alternative event \"If there is a God and if he is Almighty as the clergy claims he is, I give him just two minutes’ time to kill me on the spot, so that he may prove his existence!\" after two minutes he declared \"\"See! There is no God!\".\" Afterwards he announced a location for the workers to eat instead of fasting, as traditionally done during Yom Kippur.\n\nBenjamin Feigenbaum was born to a prominent Chassidic family in Warsaw, Poland. He went to Yeshivah, but became a free-thinker. According to a colleague, Israel Joshua Singer, Feigenbaum's \"conversion\" to secularism happened when his teacher, the Gerer rebbe, discovered that Feigenbaum was not wearing tsitsit, a ritual garb. The rebbe beat him as a punishment.\n\nLater on, he moved to Belgium; there he attended his first socialist protest in Antwerp in 1884. On December 25, 1886, his wife Matilda (Kaminsky) Feigenbaum gave birth to their son William Morris Feigenbaum. He a total of 2 daughters and 2 sons named Kanin, R. Ganetkin, William and Henry.\n\nAs a young socialist in 1887, Feigenbaum considered starting a socialist Yiddish newspaper. To his delight, he discovered the London-based \"Arbeter Fraynd\" recently started. He wrote them immediately. Towards the end of 1888, Feigenbaum moved to London, UK with his wife, to join their editorial board.\n\nIn 1891, Feigenbaum immigrated to New York, to work on New York's first Yiddish-language socialist newspaper, \"Di Arbeter Tsaytung\" (The Workman's Paper). He co-founded the Workmen's Circle, serving as its first General-Secretary. In New York, Feigenbaum developed a relationship with Bolesław Miklaszewski, a representative of the London affiliate of the Polish Socialist Party (PPS) called the Union of Polish Socialists Abroad (ZZSP). After vetting Feigenbaum's circles to ensure they did not have \"a gravitational pull\" to Russia, ZZSP announced creation of \"Jewish Socialist Post from America to Poland\" in 1896, to publish and disseminate Yiddish socialist literature.\n\nFeigenbaum was arrested during a brawl with the police on October 29, 1892 , shortly after giving a speech in Philadelphia. He was charged with inciting to riot, assaulting an officer and breaching the peace after allegedly hitting an officer with his cane. He was held on $600 bail. In Providence he was charged with inciting to riot, which were later dismissed by a Judge during trial in a higher court. In January, 1905, Providence police received a tip that an \"anarchist provocateur\" was scheduled to speak. Police surrounded the designated venue, disabling gas and cited lack of permit for as reason for shutting it down. The sponsors of the lecture, the Providence branch of Workmen's Circle obtained permits and scheduled another venue for Feigenbaum to speak at. If Hyman Goldsmith, a Yiddish speaking undercover police patrolman heard Feigenbaum mention anything about “Emma Goldmanism” or “bomb throwing” the hall would be cleared immediately by other undercover police in crowd. Instead, Feigenbaum orated for two hours and 15 minutes about the compatibility of religion and socialism, in contrast with his earlier recitals. The police were ridiculed the following day by \"The Daily Journal\", \"The Evening Bulletin\", and \"The Providence Telegram.\" \n\nFeigenbaum was highly critical of Zionism and the usage of biblical scriptures to promoting \"socialist spiritualization\". In his Yiddish article, \"'Materialism in Judaism or Religion and Life'\" (1896), Feigenbaum criticized using the Bible as 'propaganda'. If Jeremiah did not know Marx, then it was disingenuous to claim that Marxism is part of a prophetic tradition. In \"'Vi Kumt a yid tsu sotsyialismus\"' (How does a Jew come to socialism?) Feigenbaum writes \"\"Yes, brothers, socialism is redemption for us, the Jews. Socialism will rescue all the unfortunate people, Jews as well, and give them equal rights...Socialism's victory would spell the only effective defeat of the forces of anti-Semitism\".\" He further maintains that he met socialist Gentiles who ridded themselves of anti-Semitism upon discovering socialism. The enemy is the capitalist, whether Gentile or Jewish; and the Jewish poor are his friend.\n\nFeigenbaum rejected Zionism as utopian and urged Jews to reject notion of \"Goles\" as exile from Palestine, but rather state of persecution, from which socialism can redeem them.\n\nFeigenbaum died on the morning of November 10, 1932 in the Home for Incurables in New York. He had been ill for the previous ten years, the last three of which he was paralyzed. Funeral services were held in Forward Hall, on November 13, 1932. Feigenbaum is currently buried in the Workmen’s Circle section of Mount Carmel Cemetery, in Queens, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2023418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2023418", "title": "Busshi", "text": "Busshi\n\nA Busshi (仏師) is a Japanese sculptor specializing in Buddha statues.\n\n"}
{"id": "167021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167021", "title": "Christian art", "text": "Christian art\n\nChristian art is sacred art which uses themes and imagery from Christianity. Most Christian groups use or have used art to some extent, although some have had strong objections to some forms of religious image, and there have been major periods of iconoclasm within Christianity.\n\nImages of Jesus and narrative scenes from the Life of Christ are the most common subjects, and scenes from the Old Testament play a part in the art of most denominations. Images of the Virgin Mary and saints are much rarer in Protestant art than that of Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nChristianity makes far wider use of images than related religions, in which figurative representations are forbidden, such as Islam and Judaism. However, there is also a considerable history of aniconism in Christianity from various periods.\n\nEarly Christian art survives from dates near the origins of Christianity. The oldest Christian sculptures are from sarcophagi, dating to the beginning of the 2nd century. The largest groups of Early Christian paintings come from the tombs in the Catacombs of Rome, and show the evolution of the depiction of Jesus, a process not complete until the 6th century, since when the conventional appearance of Jesus in art has remained remarkably consistent.\n\nUntil the adoption of Christianity by Constantine Christian art derived its style and much of its iconography from popular Roman art, but from this point grand Christian buildings built under imperial patronage brought a need for Christian versions of Roman elite and official art, of which mosaics in churches in Rome are the most prominent surviving examples. Christian art was caught up in, but did not originate, the shift in style from the classical tradition inherited from Ancient Greek art to a less realist and otherworldly hieratic style, the start of gothic art.\n\nMuch of the art surviving from Europe after the fall of the Western Roman Empire is Christian art, although this in large part because the continuity of church ownership has preserved church art better than secular works. While the Western Roman Empire's political structure essentially collapsed after the fall of Rome, its religious hierarchy, what is today the modern-day Roman Catholic Church commissioned and funded production of religious art imagery.\n\nThe Orthodox Church of Constantinople, which enjoyed greater stability within the surviving Eastern Empire was key in commissioning imagery there and glorifying Christianity. As a stable Western European society emerged during the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church led the way in terms of art, using its resources to commission paintings and sculptures.\n\nDuring the development of Christian art in the Byzantine Empire (see Byzantine art), a more abstract aesthetic replaced the naturalism previously established in Hellenistic art. This new style was hieratic, meaning its primary purpose was to convey religious meaning rather than accurately render objects and people. Realistic perspective, proportions, light and color were ignored in favor of geometric simplification of forms, reverse perspective and standardized conventions to portray individuals and events. The controversy over the use of \"graven images\", the interpretation of the Second Commandment, and the crisis of Byzantine Iconoclasm led to a standardization of religious imagery within the Eastern Orthodoxy.\n\nThe fall of Constantinople in 1453 brought an end to the highest quality Byzantine art, produced in the Imperial workshops there. Orthodox art, known as icons regardless of the medium, has otherwise continued with relatively little change in subject and style up to the present day, with Russia gradually becoming the leading centre of production.\n\nIn the West, the Renaissance saw an increase in monumental secular works, but until the Protestant Reformation Christian art continued to be commissioned in great quantities by churches, clergy and by the aristocracy. The Reformation had a huge effect on Christian art, rapidly bringing the production of public Christian art to a virtual halt in Protestant countries, and causing the destruction of most of the art that already existed.\n\nArtists were commissioned more secular genres like portraits, landscape paintings and because of the revival of Neoplatonism, subjects from classical mythology. In Catholic countries, production continued, and increased during the Counter-Reformation, but Catholic art was brought under much tighter control by the church hierarchy than had been the case before. From the 18th century the number of religious works produced by leading artists declined sharply, though important commissions were still placed, and some artists continued to produce large bodies of religious art on their own initiative.\n\nAs a secular, non-sectarian, universal notion of art arose in 19th-century Western Europe, ancient and Medieval Christian art began to be collected for art appreciation rather than worship, while contemporary Christian art was considered marginal. Occasionally, secular artists treated Christian themes (Bouguereau, Manet) — but only rarely was a Christian artist included in the historical canon (such as Rouault or Stanley Spencer). However many modern artists such as Eric Gill, Marc Chagall, Henri Matisse, Jacob Epstein, Elizabeth Frink and Graham Sutherland have produced well-known works of art for churches. Salvador Dali is an artist who had also produced notable and popular artworks with Christian themes. Contemporary artists such as Makoto Fujimura have had significant influence both in sacred and secular arts. Other notable artists include Larry D. Alexander and John August Swanson. Some writers, such as Gregory Wolfe, see this as part of a rebirth of Christian humanism.\n\nSince the advent of printing, the sale of reproductions of pious works has been a major element of popular Christian culture. In the 19th century, this included genre painters such as Mihály Munkácsy. The invention of color lithography led to broad circulation of holy cards. In the modern era, companies specializing in modern commercial Christian artists such as Thomas Blackshear and Thomas Kinkade, although widely regarded in the fine art world as kitsch, have been very successful.\n\nSubjects often seen in Christian art include the following. See Life of Christ and Life of the Virgin for fuller lists of narrative scenes included in cycles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19915078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19915078", "title": "Denbo", "text": "Denbo\n\nDenbo or Dinbo, is a Sunni Muslim settlement in Akkar Governorate, Lebanon.\n"}
{"id": "40904045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40904045", "title": "Eyüp Cemetery", "text": "Eyüp Cemetery\n\nThe Eyüp Cemetery (), aka Eyüp Sultan Cemetery, is a historic burial ground located in the Eyüp district, on the European side of Istanbul, Turkey. It is administered by the General Directorate of Foundations. One of the oldest and largest Muslim cemeteries in Istanbul, it hosts graves of Ottoman sultans and court members, grand viziers, high-ranked religious authorities, civil servants and military commanders as well as intellectuals, scientists, artists and poets.\n\nThe cemetery was very popular with Ottoman people, as they wanted to be buried next to the tomb of Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (576–circa 672 or 674), in Ottoman Turkish \"Ebu Eyyûb el-Ensarî\" (in modern Turkish \"Eyüp Sultan\", hence the name of the cemetery). A close companion (\"sahaba\") of Prophet Muhammad, he died during a raid against the Byzantine capital Constantinople and wanted to be buried as close as possible to the city walls. After the Conquest of Constantinople by the Ottoman Turks in 1453, a tomb was constructed above his grave and a mosque, called today the Eyüp Sultan Mosque, was built in his honor. From that time on, the area now known as Eyüp has become sacred, and many prominent Ottoman people requested burial in proximity of Abu Ayyub.\n\nThe Eyüp Cemetery is situated on the western bank of the Golden Horn just outside the historic Walls of Constantinople (today İstanbul). It stretches between the Golden Horn's shore up to Karyağdı Slope, and further to Edirnekapı. Road construction works and nationalization around Golden Horn did great damage to the graves.\n\nAmong the most interesting graves are of those of the Ottoman-era public executioners. They were not allowed to be buried in public cemeteries, and a separate burial ground, called the \"Executioner Cemetery\" (), existed on the Karyağdı Hill aside the Eyüp Cemetery. Their burial took place only in two cemeteries in Istanbul, and this secretly in the night. The headstones were blank without any name and date in order to avoid retaliation by the relatives of the executed persons. Unfortunately, only a few executioner graves have survived up to date.\n\nIn the evening hours of a November day in 1994, a 45-year-old Austrian woman professor was assaulted, murdered and robbed as she was descending the hill through the cemetery after a coffee break at the popular cafeteria (called Pierre Loti cafeteria) on the top of the hill. The murderer was a 17 years old car painter.\n\nIn the early hours of afternoon on August 25, 2001, prominent Turkish Jewish businessman and a cofounder of Alarko Holding, Üzeyir Garih was found dead by cemetery guards next to the grave of Fevzi Çakmak. He was stabbed ten times, of which seven were deadly. Police arrested a suspect after two hours, who confessed the crime adding he committed the murder for robbery. However, the actual murderer, who robbed Garih's money and stole his mobile phone, was caught ten days later. Reportedly, Garih used to visit the grave of Turkey's first Chief of the General Staff field marshal Çakmak every two weeks.\n\nShortly after the 2001 murder case, a commissioner at the prosecutor's office of Eyüp district admitted that the Eyüp Cemetery had become a place of prostitution and drug use by negligence. It was reported that since the murder in 1994 no monitoring by police patrol was taking place in the cemetery and at the trail to the cafeteria on the top of the hill, which are frequented by tourists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22389735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22389735", "title": "Glossary of Japanese Buddhism", "text": "Glossary of Japanese Buddhism\n\nThis is the glossary of Japanese Buddhism, including major terms the casual (or brand-new) reader might find useful in understanding articles on the subject. Words followed by an asterisk (*) are illustrated by an image in one of the photo galleries. Within definitions, words set in boldface are defined elsewhere in the glossary.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn present-day Japanese, \"sotoba\" usually has the latter meaning.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43740755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43740755", "title": "Gurdwara Toka Sahib", "text": "Gurdwara Toka Sahib\n\nGurdwara Toka Sahib is an historical Sikh shrine located at \"Toka\" village, near Naraingarh in Haryana. In 1688, Guru Gobind Singh visited this area from his way from Paunta Sahib to Anandpur Sahib. Lieutenant Fateh Singh served as president of place for 13 years.\n"}
{"id": "8819814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8819814", "title": "Hinduism in Portugal", "text": "Hinduism in Portugal\n\nThere is relatively little history of active practice of Hinduism in Portugal. Presently there is a Hindu community of approximately 9,000 persons, which largely traces its origins to Indians who emigrated from the former Portuguese colonies of Lusophone Africa, particularly from Mozambique, and from the former colony of Goa and other possessions in Portuguese India.\n\nFrom the mid 1990s on there was an influx of Hindus of Nepalese origin in Portugal as a result of labour migration originated from that South Asian country. Also since the 1990s it is possible to find in Lisbon a small Hare Krishna community, consisting mainly of Caucasians of Portuguese origin, but also Brazilian and devotes from other European countries.\n\nHindus in Portugal are, according to the Indian Embassy in Lisbon, mainly Gujaratis (Gujarati is taught at the Hindu Community Cultural Centre, in Lisbon), Punjabis and Goans. The majority of the Hindus live in the capital city, Lisbon, but it is also possible to find some Hindu-Gujarati families living in Oporto.\n\nGujaratis moved to Mozambique under colonial rule, and after the independence of that country in 1974, some of them moved to Portugal (particularly to Lisbon). Since the 1980s, Gujaratis have migrated to Portugal directly from their homeland in Gujarat and the island of Diu.\n\nGoans first emigrated to Portugal in 1961, following the action of the Indian armed forces and subsequent annexation of Goa, Damão & Diu to India. They also built up a community in Mozambique before its independence, and then moved to Portugal. A liberal immigration policy and citizenship given to families of former Portuguese subjects in Goa has allowed their numbers to rise in Portugal.\n\nDaman, Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli Hindus have been present in Portugal since slightly before the annexation of those territories in 1954 and 1961. Punjabis, who were subjects of British rather than Portuguese colonialism, have recently begun emigration to Portugal.\n\nNepalis (see Nepalis in Portugal)\n\nHare Krishna\n\n- The \"Hindu Community of Portugal\" (), a Hindu organisation, was founded in 1982 . There is also a Hindu temple, called \"Templo Hindu Radha Krishna\", which belongs to Comunidade Hindu de Portugal, and is located at the Mahatma Gandhi alameda in Lisbon.\n\n- Shiv Mandir Association. (Portuguese: Templo de Shiva - Associação de Solidariedade Social).\n\n- BAPS Shri Swaminarayan Mandir, Lisbon (Portuguese: Missão Swaminarayan Hindu).\n\n- ISKCON - Lisboa, Associação Internacional para a Consciência de Krishna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2104803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2104803", "title": "Ibogaine", "text": "Ibogaine\n\nIbogaine is a naturally occurring psychoactive substance found in plants in the Apocynaceae family such as \"Tabernanthe iboga\", \"Voacanga africana\" and \"Tabernaemontana undulata\". It is a psychedelic with dissociative properties.\nPreliminary research indicates that it may help with drug addiction; however, there is a lack of data in humans. Its use has been associated with serious side effects and death. Between the years 1990 and 2008 a total of 19 fatalities temporally associated with the ingestion of ibogaine were reported, from which six subjects died of acute heart failure or cardiopulmonary arrest. The total number of subjects who have used it without major side effects during this period remains unknown. It is used as an alternative medicine treatment for drug addiction in some countries. Its prohibition in other countries has slowed scientific research. Ibogaine is also used to facilitate psychological introspection and spiritual exploration. Derivatives of ibogaine that lack the substance's psychedelic properties are under development.\n\nThe psychoactivity of the root barks of the iboga tree (\"Tabernanthe iboga\"), from which ibogaine is extracted, was first discovered by the Pygmy tribe of Central Africa who passed the knowledge to the Bwiti tribe of Gabon. French explorers in turn learned of it from the Bwiti tribe and brought iboga back to Europe in 1899-1900 where it was subsequently marketed in France as Lambarene. Ibogaine-containing preparations are used for medicinal and ritual purposes within African spiritual traditions of the Bwiti, who claim to have learned it from the Pygmy peoples. Although it was first commonly advertised as having anti-addictive properties in 1962 by Howard Lotsof, its Western use predates that by at least a century. In France it was marketed as \"Lambarène\" and used as a stimulant. Also, the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) studied the effects of ibogaine in the 1950s.\n\nIbogaine is an indole alkaloid that is obtained either by extraction from the iboga plant or by semi-synthesis from the precursor compound voacangine, another plant alkaloid. The total synthesis of ibogaine was described in 1956. Structural elucidation by X-ray crystallography was completed in 1960.\n\nIbogaine is derived from the root of the \"Tabernanthe iboga\", a plant known to exhibit psychedelic effects in its users. The experience of ibogaine occurs in two phases, the visionary phase and the introspection phase. The visionary phase has been described as oneirogenic, referring to the dreamlike nature of its psychedelic effects, and lasts for 4 to 6 hours. The second phase, the introspection phase, is responsible for the psychotherapeutic effects. It can allow people to conquer their fears and negative emotions. Ibogaine catalyzes an altered state of consciousness reminiscent of dreaming while fully conscious and aware so that memories, life experiences, and issues of trauma can be processed.\n\nIbogaine is not currently approved for any medical uses. Clinical studies of ibogaine to treat drug addiction began in the early 1990s, but concerns about cardiotoxicity led to termination of those studies. There is currently insufficient data to determine whether it is useful in treating addiction. Nonetheless, some alternative medicine clinics administer ibogaine for this purpose, in what has been called a \"vast, uncontrolled experiment.\" Clinical trials of Ibogaine for the treatment of alcoholism are currently underway in Brazil.\n\nIn Bwiti religious ceremonies, the root bark is pulverized and swallowed in large amounts to produce intense psychoactive effects.\n\nOne of the first noticeable effects of large-dose ibogaine ingestion is ataxia, a difficulty in coordinating muscle motion which makes standing and walking difficult without assistance. Xerostomia (dry mouth), nausea, and vomiting may follow. These symptoms may be long in duration, ranging from 4 to 24 hours in some cases. Ibogaine is sometimes administered per rectum to avoid nausea and vomiting.\n\nIbogaine causes long QT syndrome at therapeutic doses, apparently by blocking hERG potassium channels in the heart.\n\nWork in the laboratory of Mark Molliver at Johns Hopkins indicated degeneration of cerebellar Purkinje cells observed in rats given substantially larger dosages of ibogaine than those used to study drug self-administration and withdrawal. However, subsequent research found no evidence of neurotoxicity in the primate or mouse at dosages that produced cerebellar degeneration in the rat, and it has been suggested that cerebellar degeneration might be a phenomenon limited to a single species. The FDA was aware of Molliver’s work at the time it approved a Phase 1 study in which humans received ibogaine in 1993. Neuropathological examination revealed no evidence of degenerative changes in a woman who had received four separate doses of ibogaine ranging between 10 and 30 mg⁄ kg over a 15-month interval prior to her death due to a mesenteric artery thrombosis with small bowel infarction 25 days after her last ingestion of ibogaine. A published series of fatalities temporally associated with the ingestion of ibogaine found no evidence suggesting a characteristic syndrome of neurotoxicity.\n\nAdverse interactions may occur between ibogaine and psychiatric medications. Some studies also suggest the possibility of adverse interaction with heart conditions.\n\nBecause ibogaine is one of the many drugs that are partly metabolized by the cytochrome P450 complex, caution must be exercised to avoid foods or drugs that are similarly metabolized by CP450, in particular foods containing bergamottin or bergamot oil, such as grapefruit juice.\n\nIbogaine affects many different neurotransmitter systems simultaneously.\n\nNoribogaine is most potent as a serotonin reuptake inhibitor. It acts as a moderate κ-opioid receptor agonist and weak µ-opioid receptor agonist or weak partial agonist. It is possible that the action of ibogaine at the kappa opioid receptor may indeed contribute significantly to the psychoactive effects attributed to ibogaine ingestion; Salvia divinorum, another plant recognized for its strong hallucinogenic properties, contains the chemical salvinorin A which is a highly selective kappa opioid agonist. Noribogaine is more potent than ibogaine in rat drug discrimination assays when tested for the subjective effects of ibogaine.\n\nIbogaine is metabolized in the human body by cytochrome P450 2D6 into noribogaine (more correctly, O-desmethylibogaine or 12-hydroxyibogamine). Both ibogaine and noribogaine have a plasma half-life of around two hours in the rat, although the half-life of noribogaine is slightly longer than that of the parent compound. It is proposed that ibogaine is deposited in fat and metabolized into noribogaine as it is released. After ibogaine ingestion in humans, noribogaine shows higher plasma levels than ibogaine and is detected for a longer period of time than ibogaine.\n\nIbogaine is a tryptamine. It has two separate chiral centers, meaning that there are four different stereoisomers of ibogaine. These four isomers are difficult to resolve.\n\nOne recent total synthesis of ibogaine and related drugs starts with 2-iodo-4-methoxyaniline which is reacted with triethyl((4-(triethylsilyl)but-3-yn-1-yl)oxy)silane using palladium acetate in DMF to form 2-(triethylsilyl)-3-(2-((triethylsilyl)oxy)ethyl)-1H-indole. This is converted using N-iodosuccinamide and then fluoride to form 2-(2-iodo-1H-indol-3-yl)ethanol. This is treated with iodine, triphenyl phosphine and imidazole to form 2-iodo-3-(2-iodoethyl)-1H-indole. Then using 7-ethyl-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-5-ene and cesium carbonate in acetonitrile the ibogaine precursor 7-ethyl-2-(2-(2-iodo-1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl)-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-5-ene is obtained. Using palladium acetate in DMF the ibogaine is obtained. If the exo ethyl group on the 2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane system in ibogaine is replaced with an endo ethyl then epiibogaine is formed.\n\nCrystalline ibogaine hydrochloride is typically produced by semi-synthesis from voacangine in commercial laboratories.\n\nA synthetic derivative of ibogaine, 18-methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), is a selective α3β4 antagonist that was developed collaboratively by the neurologist Stanley D. Glick (Albany) and the chemist Martin E. Kuehne (Vermont). This discovery was stimulated by earlier studies on other naturally occurring analogues of ibogaine such as coronaridine and voacangine that showed these compounds also have anti-addictive properties.\n\nIbogaine occurs naturally in iboga root bark. Ibogaine is also available in a total alkaloid extract of the \"Tabernanthe iboga\" plant, which also contains all the other iboga alkaloids and thus has only about half the potency by weight as standardized ibogaine hydrochloride.\n\nThe use of iboga in African spiritual ceremonies was first reported by French and Belgian explorers in the 19th century. The first botanical description of the \"Tabernanthe iboga\" plant was made in 1889. Ibogaine was first isolated from \"T. iboga\" in 1901 by Dybowski and Landrin and independently by Haller and Heckel in the same year using \"T. iboga\" samples from Gabon. Complete synthesis of ibogaine was accomplished by G. Büchi in 1966. Since then, several other synthesis methods have been developed.\n\nFrom the 1930s to 1960s, ibogaine was sold in France in the form of Lambarène, an extract of the \"Tabernanthe manii\" plant, and promoted as a mental and physical stimulant. The drug enjoyed some popularity among post World War II athletes. Lambarène was withdrawn from the market in 1966 when the sale of ibogaine-containing products became illegal in France.\n\nIn the late 1960s the World Health Assembly classified ibogaine as a “substance likely to cause dependency or endanger human health,” the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) assigned it Schedule I classification, and the International Olympic Committee banned it as a potential doping agent.\n\nAnecdotal reports concerning ibogaine's effects appeared in the early 1960s. Its anti-addictive properties were discovered accidentally by Howard Lotsof in 1962, at the age of 19, when he and five friends—all heroin addicts—noted subjective reduction of their craving and withdrawal symptoms while taking it. Further anecdotal observation convinced Lotsof of its potential usefulness in treating substance addictions. He contracted with a Belgian company to produce ibogaine in tablet form for clinical trials in the Netherlands, and was awarded a United States patent for the product in 1985. The first objective, placebo-controlled evidence of Ibogaine's ability to attenuate opioid withdrawal in rats was published by Dzoljic \"et al.\" in 1988. Diminution of morphine self-administration was reported in preclinical studies by Glick \"et al.\" in 1991. Cappendijk \"et al.\" demonstrated reduction in cocaine self-administration in rats in 1993, and Rezvani reported reduced alcohol dependence in three strains of \"alcohol preferring\" rats in 1995.\n\nAs the use of ibogaine spread, its administration varied widely; some groups administered it systematically using well developed methods and medical personnel, while others employed haphazard and possibly dangerous methodology. Lotsof and his colleagues, committed to the traditional administration of ibogaine, developed treatment regimens themselves. In 1992, Eric Taub brought ibogaine to an offshore location close to the United States, where he began providing treatments and popularizing its use. In Costa Rica Lex Kogan, another leading proponent, joined Taub in systematizing its administration. The two men established medically monitored treatment clinics in several countries.\n\nIn 1981 an unnamed European manufacturer produced 44 kg of iboga extract. The entire stock was purchased by Carl Waltenburg, who distributed it under the name \"Indra extract\" and used it in 1982 to treat heroin addicts in Christiania, Denmark, a squatter village where heroin addiction was widespread. Indra extract was available for sale over the Internet until 2006, when the Indra web presence disappeared. Various products are currently sold in a number of countries as \"Indra extract\", but it is unclear if any of them are derived from Waltenburg's original stock. Ibogaine and related indole compounds are susceptible to oxidation over time.\n\nThe National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) began funding clinical studies of ibogaine in the United States in the early 1990s, but terminated the project in 1995. Data demonstrating ibogaine's efficacy in attenuating opioid withdrawal in drug-dependent human subjects was published by Alper \"et al.\" in 1999. A cohort of 33 patients were treated with 6 to 29 mg/kg of ibogaine; 25 displayed resolution of the signs of opioid withdrawal from 24 hours to 72 hours post-treatment, but one 24-year-old female, who received the highest dosage, died. Mash \"et al.\", (2000) using lower oral doses (10–12 mg/kg) in 27 patients, demonstrated significantly lower objective opiate withdrawal scores in heroin addicts 36 hours after treatment, with self-reports of decreased cocaine and opiate craving and alleviated depression symptoms. Many of these effects appeared sustainable over a one-month post-discharge follow-up.\n\nThe Global Ibogaine Therapy Alliance publish a map of ibogaine legal status in various countries around the world.\n\nOn 14 January 2016, Ibogaine was legalized for prescription use in São Paulo, Brazil, with this legalization to extend to the rest of the country in a few months.\n\nIbogaine was unregulated in Canada in 2009. Then Health Canada added ibogaine to the Prescription Drug List (PDL) in 2017.\n\nIbogaine is unregulated in Germany, but for medical use it can be regulated by the pharmacy rules (AMG).\n\nIbogaine was gazetted in New Zealand in 2009 as a non-approved prescription medicine.\n\nIbogaine is illegal in Norway (as are all tryptamine derivatives).\n\nIbogaine is schedule I in Sweden.\n\nAs of January 2017 in the United Kingdom, ibogaine was an unlicensed medical product.\n\nIbogaine is classified as a Schedule I-controlled substance in the United States, and is not approved there for addiction treatment (or any other therapeutic use) because of its hallucinogenic, neurotoxic, and cardiovascular side effects, as well as the scarcity of safety and efficacy data in human subjects.\n\nIbogaine treatment clinics have emerged in Mexico, Canada, the Netherlands, South Africa, and New Zealand, all operating in what has been described as a \"legal gray area\". Costa Rica also has treatment centers, most notably one run by Lex Kogan, a leading proponent of ibogaine. Covert, illegal neighborhood clinics are known to exist in the United States, despite active DEA surveillance. While clinical guidelines for ibogaine-assisted detoxification were released by the Global Ibogaine Therapy Alliance in 2015, addiction specialists warn that the treatment of drug dependence with ibogaine in non-medical settings, without expert supervision and unaccompanied by appropriate psychosocial care, can be dangerous — and, in approximately one case in 300, potentially fatal.\n\n\"Detox or Die\" (2004)\n\"Ibogaine: Rite of Passage\" (2004)\n\"Facing the Habit\" (2007)\n\"Tripping in Amsterdam\" (2008)\n\"I'm Dangerous with Love\" (2009)\n\"Hallucinogens\" (2012)\n\"Addiction\" (2013)\n\"The Ibogaine Safari\" (2014)\n\nWhile in Wisconsin covering the primary campaign for the United States presidential election of 1972, gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson submitted a satirical article to \"Rolling Stone\" accusing Democratic Party candidate Edmund Muskie of being addicted to ibogaine. Many readers, and even other journalists, did not realize that the \"Rolling Stone\" piece was facetious. The ibogaine assertion, which was completely unfounded, did a significant amount of damage to Muskie's reputation, and was cited as a factor in his loss of the nomination to George McGovern. Thompson later said he was surprised that anyone believed it. The article is included in Thompson's post-election anthology, \"Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72\" (1973).\n\nAuthor and Yippie Dana Beal co-wrote the 1997 book \"The Ibogaine Story\".\n\nAmerican author Daniel Pinchbeck wrote about his own experience of ibogaine in his book \"Breaking Open the Head\" (2002), and in a 2003 article for \"The Guardian\" titled \"Ten years of therapy in one night\".\n\nIbogaine factors into the stories of these episodes from television drama series:\n\n\nThe most-studied therapeutic effect of ibogaine is the reduction or elimination of addiction to opioids. An integral effect is the alleviation of symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Research also suggests that ibogaine may be useful in treating dependence on other substances such as alcohol, methamphetamine, and nicotine and may affect compulsive behavioral patterns not involving substance abuse or chemical dependence. Researchers note that there remains a \"need for systematic investigation in a conventional clinical research setting.\"\n\nMany users of ibogaine report experiencing visual phenomena during a waking dream state, such as instructive replays of life events that led to their addiction, while others report therapeutic shamanic visions that help them conquer the fears and negative emotions that might drive their addiction. It is proposed that intensive counseling, therapy and aftercare during the interruption period following treatment is of significant value. Some individuals require a second or third treatment session with ibogaine over the course of the next 12 to 18 months. A minority of individuals relapse completely into opiate addiction within days or weeks. A comprehensive article (Lotsof 1995) on the subject of ibogaine therapy detailing the procedure, effects and aftereffects is found in \"Ibogaine in the Treatment of Chemical Dependence Disorders: Clinical Perspectives\". Ibogaine has also been reported in multiple small-study cohorts to reduce cravings for methamphetamine.\n\nThere is also evidence that this type of treatment works with LSD, which has been shown to have a therapeutic effect on alcoholism. Both ibogaine and LSD appear to be effective for encouraging introspection and giving the user occasion to reflect on the sources of their addiction, while also producing an intense, transformative experience that can put established patterns of behaviour into perspective; ibogaine has the added benefit of preventing withdrawal effects.\n\nIn 1957, Jurg Schneider, a pharmacologist at CIBA (now a division of Novartis), found that ibogaine potentiated morphine analgesia. No additional data was ever published by CIBA researchers on ibogaine–opioid interactions. Almost 50 years later, Patrick Kroupa and Hattie Wells released the first treatment protocol for concomitant administration of ibogaine with opioids in human subjects, indicating that ibogaine reduced tolerance to opioid drugs. Their paper in the \"Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies Journal\" demonstrated that administration of low \"maintenance\" doses of ibogaine HCl with opioids decreases tolerance, but noted that ibogaine's potentiating action could make this a risky procedure.\n\nIbogaine has been used as an adjunct to psychotherapy by Claudio Naranjo, documented in his book \"The Healing Journey\". He was awarded patent in 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "19319606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19319606", "title": "Joseph Albert Rosario", "text": "Joseph Albert Rosario\n\nJoseph Albert Rosario, M.S.F.S (30 May 1915 – 31 July 2011) was an Indian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was one of oldest Roman Catholic Bishops and the oldest Bishop from India.\n\nRosario was born in Nagpur, India on 30 May 1915. He was ordained priest on 29 September 1944 in the religious institute of the Missionaries of St. Francis de Sales. Appointed on 8 May 1955 to the Diocese of Amravati, he was ordained bishop on 13 November 1955, retiring from governance of the see on 1 April 1995.\n\nBishop Rosario was very popular among the non-Catholic masses of Amravati. He was particularly known in the region for his tolerance for other religions\n\n"}
{"id": "7604543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7604543", "title": "Kalaureia", "text": "Kalaureia\n\nKalaureia () or Calauria or Kalavria () is an island close to the coast of Troezen in the Peloponnesus of mainland Greece, part of the modern island-pair Poros.\n\nStrabo describes the coastwise journey along the Hermionic Gulf:\n\nOn Calauria a Doric temple of Poseidon was built in the ancient sanctuary, possibly around 520 BCE. The dimensions of the temple are 27.4 by 14.4 m. There are six columns on each short side and twelve on each long side.\n\nThere is strong evidence that the epithet of Poseidon at Kalaureia was \"Geraistos\" (Γεραιστός), a word from an unknown pre-Hellenic language. A 6th century A.D. dictionary by Stephanus of Byzantium gives the names of Zeus's sons as Geraistos, Tainaros, and Kalauros, who sailed from an unspecified location and landed in different places on the Peloponnesus. Geraistos, Tainaros, and Kalaureia are all sanctuaries of Poseidon; in the towns of the latter two, one of the months of the year was named Geraistios (the only other \"poleis\" (πόλεις) with this month name are Sparta, Kalymna, and Kos). It is also theorized that the epithet Geraistios (Γεραίστιος) also applies to Kalaureia because all three sanctuaries function as asylums.\n\nAnother, older aetiology of the temple says that it was bartered for by Poseidon himself, who received it from Apollo in exchange for his share of Delphi. This story is attested by Callimachus, Pausanias referencing Musaeus, and Strabo referencing the history of Ephorus. Pausanias and Strabo both quote the following oracle: \"For thee it is the same thing to possess Delos or Kalaureia / most holy Pytho [Delphi] or windy Taenarum.\"\n\nKalaureia was mentioned by Philostephanus in a lost work \"On Islands\".\n\nIt was to Kalaureia that Demosthenes the famous orator, condemned to death with his friends by the pro-Philip Macedonian party at Athens, fled and took sanctuary in Poseidon's sanctuary; as Antipater's officers closed in, he took poison and died, 16 October 322 BCE.\nIt is claimed by the Hellenistic historian Strabo that in the Archaic period, an early amphictiony, one of several Hellenic leagues of pre-classical times of which little is known, was centered on Kalaureia. Archaeology of the site suggested to Thomas Kelly that the sacred league was founded in the second quarter of the seventh century BCE, ca 680-650; before that date there were virtually no remains at the site, which could not have been used more than sporadically. A \"peribolos\" (περίβολος) wall enclosing the sanctuary site was built with the temple, but there are no earlier traces of structures. The \"temenos\" or sanctuary dedicated to Poseidon, may have been linked to the sanctuaries at Geraistos and Tainaros (Ταίναρος). The island was known at one time as \"Eirene\" (Εἰρήνη) (\"Peace\"), clearly in reference to the amphictiony. A reference in Strabo gives a list of the \"poleis\" that belonged:\n\nTroezen and Poros, which he considered the harbour of Troezen, Strabo omitted. However, there is no archaeological evidence to corroborate this list, and modern scholars believe that a feast in the ancient \"temenos\" celebrating the \"revival\" of the amphictiony, may have been based on a Hellenistic invention; the feast certainly existed: a third-century BCE plaque celebrating the \"revival\" of the Kalaureian League has been recovered.\n\nAfter the Greco-Persian Wars, the friendly connection between Athens and Troezen appears to have continued; and during the hegemony of the Athenian empire before the Thirty Years' Peace (455 BCE) Troezen was an ally of Athens, and was apparently garrisoned by Athenian troops; but by this peace the Athenians were compelled to relinquish Troezen. (19.29)\n\nThe Sanctuary was excavated by Swedish archaeologists in 1894. Continued excavations from 1997 and onwards by the Swedish Institute in Athens in collaboration with the Greek National Heritage Board.\n\n"}
{"id": "21591207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21591207", "title": "Kanaganahalli", "text": "Kanaganahalli\n\nKanaganahalli is about 3 km from Sannati. An important Buddhist site, the place where an ancient Buddhist Mahastupa site found. It is on the left bank of the Bhima river in Chitapur taluk, Gulbarga District in Karnataka, India. Nalwar is the nearest Railway station about 19 km from Kanaganahalli. The Buddhist site about 2.5 km from Chandrala Parameshwari temple of Sannati.\n\nThe remains of the excavations site at Kanaganahalli can be dated to between the 1st century BC to the 3rd century AD.\n\nIn circa the 1st century BC the stupa at Kanganhalli was constructed, as per the inscriptions referred to as \"Hama Chaitya\" and it was patronized by the Hinayana and Mahayana people during the 3rd and 4th centuries AD. During the Shatavahana period, the Amaravati School of art made a deep impact on the sculptural and architectural forms of Kanaganahalli region. This was indeed a period of great artistic efflorescence that gave the \"Maha chaitya\" here the most impressive form unsurpassed in the history of stupa architecture in the south India.\n\nThe sculptured panels of the \"medhi\" are distinctly of native creation. The skill of making two dimensional sculptures and the carving of typical animal motifs are also of indigenous nature. Exhibit a transition phase between the early phase of Amaravati sculptural art and the elaborately sculptured panels of Nagarjunakonda with the sculptural panels found at Kanaganahalli stupa.\n\nThe volumes of their improvement over their Amaravati counterparts. The mastery of the artist of Kanganhalli in carving the \"geometric patterns, floral motifs, dress and ornamentation\" of the contemporary times and the concept of composition of the subject matter in the large sculptured panels.\nThe Kanaganahalli \"Maha Stupa\" is the veritable gallery of eminent rulers like King Ashoka and the Shatavahana rulers (Simuka, Pulumavi) are immortalized by depicting their portraits at Kanaganahalli.\n\nUnlike the torana of Sanchi, Madhya Pradesh, portrait of emperor Ashoka is said to have depicted there is inscription found at Kanaganahalli.\n\nAt Kanganhalli up to the anda portion of the stupa is available, although majority of the architectural members and the sculptural panels are dislodged from the original position.\n\nKanaganahalli is the excavation site of the Archaeological Survey of India.\n\n\nIn addition to one long inscription, 145 short inscriptions were discovered from the excavations site, dating between 1st century BCE to 1st century CE. The very important discovery was the sculpture of Maurya emperor Ashoka with the label \"Rayo Asoka\".\n\n\nAn important Buddhist site, Government of Karnataka and ASI Planning to develop Kanaganahalli (and Sannati) as International Buddhist Centre.\n\nGovernment of Karnataka had constituted Sannati Development Authority and had appointed senior IAS official S.M. Jamdhar as its special officer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53185494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53185494", "title": "Kayu ura", "text": "Kayu ura\n\nKayu ura or Mi kayu ura is a Japanese Shinto divination ritual using rice or bean gruel.\n\nTraditionally, the \"kayu ura\" ritual took place on the 15th day of the first lunar month, but since the adoption of the Gregorian calendar it has been conventional to perform the ceremony on January 15th; this date is known as \"ko-shōgatsu\" or \"Little New Year\". Divination by gruel is generally used for agricultural predictions; it is presumed to predict the weather and harvests for the coming year.\n\nThe ceremony takes various forms. A common practice is to stir a large pot of rice gruel () with a split wooden stick, and to observe the number and organisation of the grains that adhere to the stick when it is removed. In another variation, known as \"tsutsugayu shinji\", multiple hollow cylinders made of split bamboo or reeds are placed in the gruel, each cylinder corresponding to a specific month. Shinto prayers are chanted and the rice porridge is then left overnight. The following morning, the cylinders are cut open and the contents examined – the more rice that has stuck to the inside of the tube, the more propitious the harvest. If multiple tubes are used, these usually correspond to specific months of the year, and the results are recorded on a month-by-month basis. The \"tsutsugayu shinji\" variation is practiced at the Suwa Grand Shrine.\n\nWhilst rice is usually used, a porridge made from red beans (a symbol of fertility) can be substituted as an alternative.\n\nA further variation on the ritual is used in Akita, in which the gruel is not stirred but is instead smeared on a wooden pole; predictions are made based on how much rice sticks to the pole and the patterns that it makes. The oldest form of this ceremony, and the precursor to those listed above, involves a Shinto priest examining the mould that has formed on a bowl of rice porridge that has been stored in a special box for several days.\n"}
{"id": "249343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=249343", "title": "Lamashtu", "text": "Lamashtu\n\nIn Mesopotamian mythology, Lamashtu (Akkadian \"La-maš-tu\"; Sumerian \"Dimme\" \"Dim-me\") was a female demon, monster, malevolent goddess or demigoddess who menaced women during childbirth and, if possible, kidnapped their children while they were breastfeeding. She would gnaw on their bones and suck their blood, as well as being charged with a number of other evil deeds. She was a daughter of the Sky God Anu.\n\nLamashtu is depicted as a mythological hybrid, with a hairy body, a lioness' head with donkey's teeth and ears, long fingers and fingernails, and the feet of a bird with sharp talons. She is often shown standing or kneeling on a donkey, nursing a pig and a dog, and holding snakes. She thus bears some functions and resemblance to the Mesopotamian demon Lilith.\n\nLamashtu's father was the Sky God Anu (Sumer An). Unlike many other usual demonic figures and depictions in Mesopotamian lore, Lamashtu was said to act in malevolence of her own accord, rather than at the gods' instructions. Along with this her name was written together with the cuneiform determinative indicating deity. This means she was a goddess or a demigoddess in her own right.\n\nShe bore seven names and was described as seven witches in incantations. Her evil deeds included (but were not limited to): slaying children, unborns, and neonates; causing harm to mothers and expectant mothers; eating men and drinking their blood; disturbing sleep; bringing nightmares; killing foliage; infesting rivers and lakes; and being a bringer of disease, sickness, and death.\n\nPazuzu, a god or demon, was invoked to protect birthing mothers and infants against Lamashtu's malevolence, usually on amulets and statues. Although Pazuzu was said to be bringer of famine and drought, he was also invoked against evil for protection, and against plague, but he was primarily and popularly invoked against his fierce, malicious rival Lamashtu.\n\nIncantation against Lamaštu:\n\n\nAn Akkadian incantation and ritual against Lamashtu is edited in \"Texte aus der Umwelt des Alten Testaments\" vol. 2 (1988)\nIt is glossed as an \"incantation to dispel lasting fever and Lamashtu\".\nThe prescribed ritual involves a Lamashtu figurine. A sacrifice of bread must be placed before the figurine and water must be poured over it. A black dog must be made to carry the figurine. Then it is placed near the head of the sick child for three days, with the heart of a piglet placed in its mouth. The incantation must be recited three times a day, besides further food sacrifices. At dusk on the third day, the figurine is taken outdoors and buried near the wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "55462168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55462168", "title": "List of Buddhist festivals", "text": "List of Buddhist festivals\n\nJapanese festivals and Barua festivals often involve Buddhist culture, as do pagoda festivals held as fairs held at Buddhist temples in Myanmar. Features of Buddhist Tibetan festivals may include the traditional cham dance, which is also a feature of some Buddhist festivals in India and Bhutan. Many festivals of Nepal are religious festivals involving Buddhism, as are many Burmese traditional festivals. Lunar New Year festivals \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17616966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616966", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Paraguay", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Paraguay\n\nThe diocesan system of Catholic church government in Paraguay comprises only a Latin hierarchy, joint in the nation episcopal conference, no Eastern Catholic jurisdiction :\n\nAll defunct jurisdictions are direct precursors of current ones.\n\nThere is also an Apostolic Nunciature to Paraguay as papal diplomatic representation (embassy level).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "79217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=79217", "title": "List of biblical names starting with D", "text": "List of biblical names starting with D\n\nA – B – C – D – E – F – G – H – I – J – K – L – M – N – O – P – Q – R – S – T – U – V – Y – Z\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48226127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48226127", "title": "List of people declared venerable by Pope John XXIII", "text": "List of people declared venerable by Pope John XXIII\n\nPope John XXIII declared 11 individuals venerable, based on the recognition of their heroic virtues from 1958 to 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1143671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143671", "title": "List of people who have been considered deities", "text": "List of people who have been considered deities\n\nThis is a list of notable people who were considered deities by themselves or others.\n"}
{"id": "884135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=884135", "title": "Matthew Fox (priest)", "text": "Matthew Fox (priest)\n\nMatthew Fox (born Timothy James Fox on December 21, 1940) is an American priest and theologian. Formerly a member of the Dominican Order within the Roman Catholic Church, he became a member of the Episcopal Church following his expulsion from the order in 1993. Fox was an early and influential exponent of a movement that came to be known as Creation Spirituality. The movement draws inspiration from the mystical philosophies of such medieval Catholic visionaries as Hildegard of Bingen, Thomas Aquinas, Saint Francis of Assisi, Julian of Norwich, Dante Alighieri, Meister Eckhart and Nicholas of Cusa, as well as the wisdom and prophetic traditions of Jewish scriptures. Creation Spirituality is also strongly aligned with ecological and environmental movements of the late 20th century and embraces numerous spiritual traditions around the world, including Buddhism, Judaism, Sufism, and Native American spirituality, with a focus on \"deep ecumenism\" or interfaith.\n\nFox has written 35 books that have been translated into 68 languages and have sold millions of copies and by the mid-1990s had attracted a \"huge and diverse following\".\n\nTimothy James Fox, was born in Madison, Wisconsin. In 1960, when he entered the Roman Catholic Order of Preachers he was given the religious name of \"Matthew\". He received master's degrees in both philosophy and theology from the Aquinas Institute of Philosophy and Theology and later earned a Doctorate of spiritual theology, summa cum laude, from the Institut Catholique de Paris, studying with Marie-Dominique Chenu who named the Creation Spirituality tradition for him. It was Thomas Merton, the catholic monk, who steered Fox to study at the Institut catholique de Paris. After receiving his doctorate, Fox began teaching at a series of Catholic universities, including Loyola University in Chicago and Barat College of the Sacred Heart in Lake Forest, Il.\n\nIn 1976, Fox moved to Chicago’s Mundelein College (now part of Loyola University), to start the Institute of Culture and Creation Spirituality, a master's program in Creation Spirituality with a unique pedagogy that integrated both left and right brain centers and would eventually lead to conflict with church authorities. His holistic pedagogy included among its faculty Jungian psychologist John Giannini and physicist/cosmologist Brian Swimme, feminist Rosemary Reuther along with many artists teaching “art as meditation.” In 1983, Fox moved the Institute of Culture and Creation Spirituality to Oakland, California, and began teaching at Holy Names University, where he was a professor for 12 years.\n\nIn 1984 Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, asked the Dominican Order to investigate Fox’s writings. When three Dominican theologians examined his works and did not find his books heretical, Ratzinger ordered a second review, which was never undertaken.\n\nDue to his questioning of the doctrine of original sin, in 1988 Fox was forbidden from teaching or lecturing for a year by Ratzinger. Fox wrote a “Pastoral Letter to Cardinal Ratzinger and the Whole Church,” calling the Catholic church a dysfunctional family. After a year \"sabbatical\" Fox resumed writing, teaching, and lecturing. In 1991 his Dominican superior ordered Fox to leave the ICCS in California and return to Chicago or face dismissal. Fox refused. In 1993, Fox’s conflicts with Catholic authorities climaxed with his expulsion from the Dominican order for \"disobedience,\" effectively ending his professional relationship with the church and his teaching at its universities.\n\nAmong the issues Ratzinger objected to were his feminist theology; calling God \"Mother;\" preferring the concept of Original Blessing over Original Sin; working too closely with Native Americans; not condemning homosexuality; and teaching the four paths of creation spirituality—the \"Via Positiva\", \"Via Negativa\", \"Via Creativa\" and \"Via Transformativa\" instead of the church’s classical three paths of purgation, illumination and union.\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", Molly O'Neill says that the Vatican was presented with a request on the part of the Dominicans that the theologian be dismissed. According to John L. Allen, Jr., it was largely in reaction to the unconventional programming at his Institute for Creation Spirituality, with a faculty that included a masseuse, a Zen Buddhist, a yoga teacher, and a self-described witch named Starhawk.\n\nAfter his expulsion, Fox met young Anglican activists in England who were using \"raves\" as a way to bring life back to their liturgy and to attract young people to church worship. He was inspired to begin holding his own series of “Techno Cosmic Masses” in Oakland and other U.S. cities, events designed to connect people to a more ecstatic and visceral celebration and relationship with ritual and the building of community.\n\nFox was received into the Episcopal Church (Anglican Communion) as a priest in 1994 by Bishop William Swing of the Episcopal Diocese of California.\n\nIn 1996, Fox founded the University of Creation Spirituality in Oakland, an outgrowth of his institutes at Mundelein and Holy Names. The university offered similar master's degree programs in creation spirituality and related studies. It was initially accredited through an affiliation with New College of California, before shifting in 1999 to affiliate with the Naropa Institute of Boulder, Colorado, creating and running Naropa’s master's degree program. The university also added a separate doctorate of ministry degree, with a curriculum based on his 1993 book \"The Reinvention of Work: A New Vision of Livelihood for Our Time\", which talked about a \"priesthood of all workers\".\n\nFox led the University of Creation Spirituality for nine years, then was succeeded as president by James Garrison in 2005. The institution was subsequently renamed Wisdom University.\n\nSince leaving the university, Fox has continued to lecture, write and publish books. In 2005, he founded an educational organization geared to reach out to inner city youth called Youth and Elder Learning Laboratory for Ancestral Wisdom Education (YELLAWE). The YELLAWE program is based on a holistic approach to education and creativity derived from Fox’s master’s level programs. It also includes physical training in bodily meditation practices such as tai chi. YELLAWE has operated in inner-city school systems in Oakland and Chicago.\n\nFox's proponents hold that his teachings are more gender neutral, ecology sensitive, and accepting of non-traditional sexuality, than church orthodoxy.\n\nWhile some academic theologians refer to Fox as the next Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, others call him a populizer, not an intellectual. Robert Brow characterizes the teachings as \"esoteric excursions into ethics, theology, and mysticism\".\n\nFox’s conception of Creation Spirituality draws on both a close reading of biblical sources and early medieval mystics within Christian traditions as well as today's science. It seeks common ground with numerous faiths from around the world, in an approach Fox called “deep ecumenism” for its connections across many spiritual practices. This was described most particularly in his book \"One River, Many Wells: Wisdom Springing from Global Faiths\".\n\nCreation Spirituality considers itself a “green” theology, emphasizing a holy relationship between humanity and nature. Accordingly, the sacredness of nature is considered a sacrament and creation is considered an expression of God and the “Cosmic Christ”. This approach was endorsed by eco-theologian Thomas Berry among others. Fox’s book \"The Coming of the Cosmic Christ: The Healing of Mother Earth and the Birth of a Global Renaissance\" delves more into these issues.\n\nFox also laid out other tenets of Creation Spirituality in some of his other books, particularly \"Original Blessing,\" \"A Spirituality Named Compassion,\" and \"Creation Spirituality: Liberating Gifts for the People of the Earth\".\n\nFox’s 1996 autobiography, \"Confessions: The Making of a Post-Denominational Priest\", describes his life as a Dominican priest and his struggle with the Vatican as he wrote about his experiences and understanding of early Christianity. This book was updated and published by North Atlantic Books in 2016.\n\nFox also has authored or edited nearly 35 other books, largely on various spiritual teachings, teachers and mystics (listed below). He was the first to translate Meister Eckhart into English from the critical German editions along with a commentary on his work and helped to launch the Hildegard of Bingen revival. His book on the mysticism of Thomas Aquinas translates many of his works that have never before been translated into English, German or French.\n\nFox's theological positions have been categorized as a type of monism, specifically panentheism.\n\nFox's theology has received plaudits from noted spiritual figures including Dom Bede Griffiths, OSB, who said: \"“(Matthew Fox’s) creation spirituality is the spirituality of the future and his Theology of the Cosmic Christ is the theology of the future.” About the 25th anniversary edition of \"Original Blessing\", John Cobb, professor emeritus at the Claremont School of Theology, wrote: \"Fox's accomplishment in \"Original Blessing\" was more than to recover a form of spirituality that had been obscured and to show its profound relevance and importance for our time. He used spirituality as an avenue into the depths of Christian faith and theology in general...Gradually the book is assuming the status of a classic. In due course, it will take its place in the history of spirituality and indeed in the history of theology.\"\n\nFox's \"Techno Cosmic Mass\" (more recently called \"Cosmic Mass\") is an attempt to combine the religious ritual of the Eucharist with dance and multimedia material, deejays, video jockeys and rap music. They evoke and connect spiritual rituals and the ecstatic energy of Techno music and rave parties. They developed from a group called the Nine O'Clock Service in Sheffield, England, in the late 1980s and early 1990s and were brought to the United States and further developed by Fox. Over 100 Cosmic Masses have been celebrated in North America and numerous persons have studied how to present them.\n\nIn 2005, while preparing for a presentation in Germany and following the election of Ratzinger as Pope Benedict XVI, Fox created 95 theses that he then translated into German. On the weekend of Pentecost, arrangements were made for him to nail these to the door of the Wittenberg church where Martin Luther nailed the original 95 Theses in the 16th century, an act often associated with the Protestant Reformation.\n\nThe action fueled the creation of a lively blog involving tens of thousands of Germans. In his theses, Fox called for a new reformation in Western Christianity. In his supporting book, \"A New Reformation\", Fox argued that two Christianities already exist and it is time for a new reformation to acknowledge that fact and move the Western spiritual tradition into new directions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16434149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16434149", "title": "Meminisse iuvat", "text": "Meminisse iuvat\n\nMeminisse iuvat (14 July 1958) is an encyclical of Pope Pius XII, asking for prayers of the persecuted Church in the East and criticizing harmful cultural developments in the West. He asks for a novena of prayer preceding the feast of the Assumption.\n\nThe encyclical reminds its readers, that during the Second World War the Pope did not simply preach peace or work on better understanding between the war parties. Most importantly, he consecrated the whole human race to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, the mother of God. Twelve years later, war is over, but peace has not yet arrived. The new atomic weapons can annihilate not only the vanquished but also the victors.\n\nThe problems and crisis of humanity continue to exist, because God, the source and guarantor of justice, the fountain of truth, the basis of all laws, is denied his proper place or, worse, completely disregarded. If a house is not built on a solid and sure foundation, it tumbles down; if a mind is not enlightened by the divine light, it strays more or less from the whole truth; if citizens, peoples, and nations are not animated by brotherly love, strife is born, waxes strong, and reaches full growth.\nChristianity teaches the full truth, real justice, and divine charity, which drives away hate, bad intentions and enmity. A return to Christian principles would establish a society that is strong, just, and equitable. The Pope is firmly convinced that, whatever the obstacles or persecutions, Christianity will always win over her enemies. \"It is a harmful and reckless policy to do battle with Christianity, for God guarantees, and history testifies, that she shall exist forever.\" Yet, in some unnamed countries - the Pope clearly points to the West - Christian principles and the Catholic religion are not given their proper place. Unsuspecting and uneducated young people easily fall for the temptations of seductive allurements of vice, as writers and publishers and movies continue to stir up vicious and violent appetites solely for the sake of gain.\n\nIn the East, persecutions against the Church continue. As a result, many bishops have been driven from their sees or so impeded that they cannot freely exercise their ministry; they have even been cast into prison or exiled. In those countries, newspapers, magazines, and other publications put out by Catholics have been almost completely silenced, as if truth were subject to the exclusive control and discretion of political rulers, and as though divine and human learning and the liberal arts need not be free if they are to flourish for the public and common good. Catholic schools are closed or replaced with institutes of the State which teach nothing at all about God or religion. Missionaries are expelled, jailed or unable to help the faithful. Governments choose and appoint bishops, as if the Catholic Church were a creature of a single nation, dependent on its civil authority, and not a divine institution extending to all peoples.\n\nBut most of the faithful, of both the Latin and the Oriental rites, are practicing and defending their ancestral faith tenaciously. Gratefully, the Pope exhorts those who are under many dangerous and deceitful pressures - pressures which would urge them to stop supporting the firm, solid, and constant unity of the Church: \"He who does not have the Church as his mother, cannot have God as his father. The Church, founded by Christ can be attacked, but not defeated, for she draws her strength from God, not from man. Just as Christ our Redeemer rose in triumph, so the Church shall some day win a peaceful victory over all her enemies.\"\n\nThe Pope encourages the faithful in the East to have confidence, and to be brave and steadfast soldiers, quoting St. Ignatius, the martyr: \"We wish to counsel you in the words of St. Ignatius, martyr, although We know you do not require such counsel: \"Serve him for whom you fight. ... May none of you desert him! Your baptism must be a shield; your faith a helmet; your charity a lance; your patience a suit of armour. Your works should be your credentials, so that you may be worthy to receive your reward.\" \n\nEmpires and mighty states have fallen but the Church stands unmoved among the waves of this world, for she is built on the apostolic rock and holds fast to her foundation, unmoved by the onslaughts of the raging sea. Nothing can even shake her, Pope Pius teaches, because, as many physical elements of this world crash with thunder around her, she continues to provide a safe port. As half of Christianity suffers persecution, the other half is united with their brothers and sisters in prayer, that better times may quickly come upon the whole Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "10866788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10866788", "title": "Merkos L'Inyonei Chinuch", "text": "Merkos L'Inyonei Chinuch\n\nMerkos L'Inyonei Chinuch (, lit. Central Organization for Education) is the central educational arm of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement. It was founded in 1943 by the sixth Rebbe, Rabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn, who appointed his son-in-law, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, who would later become the seventh Rebbe, as its chairman and director. Today, Rabbi Chaim Yehuda Krinsky serves as chairman.\n\nMerkos L'Inyonei Chinuch is the official body responsible for establishing Chabad centers across the globe. Its vice-chairman Rabbi Moshe Kotlarsky oversees the global network of emissaries, approves new centers, and directs the annual international conference of Chabad emissaries.\n\nMerkos L'Inyonei Chinuch has these divisions:\n\nOne of the best known divisions is the Merkos Shlichus campaign, which dispatches pairs of young rabbinical students, colloquially known as Roving Rabbis, to small and isolated Jewish communities around the world. Hundreds of rabbinical students participate in Passover and summer visitation programs, building Jewish awareness and spreading Torah knowledge. To date, the program has sent students to more than 150 countries.\n\nThe Rabbinical Student Visitation Program began in 1943, when Rabbi Schneerson dispatched the first pairs of students to ten cities in Upstate New York. Cities in California were added to the program in 1944, as were cities in the Southern United States in 1945. By 1948, the summer program numbered 20 students and 100 American cities. Students were also sent to Jewish farmers residing throughout the Northeastern United States, many of whom were European immigrants. The students were sent in pairs, usually one American student and one European-immigrant student.\n\nIn the early 1950s, the Rebbe added international destinations to the summer program, personally consulting maps and planning the itineraries.\n\nCurrently, 400 Roving Rabbis participate in the annual summer program. They distribute thousands of mezuzot, other religious articles such as tefillin and kosher food, and tens of thousands of Jewish information packets each year.\n\nThe students interact with both individuals and families. They often go door to door, teaching women how to light Shabbat candles and showing men how to put on tefillin for the first time. They speak about Jewish education, answer questions, and give bar mitzvah lessons.\n\nTheir visits are often anticipated by the local population. On their 2010 swing through the islands of Aruba, Bonaire and Curaçao, for example, the two Roving Rabbis were summoned to the office of Aruba Prime Minister Mike Eman, who is Jewish. Eman spoke with them about Jewish heritage, listened as they blew the shofar (it was the Hebrew month of Elul, when the shofar is blown daily in synagogues), and donned a pair of tefillin. After completing their visit to the islands, the students returned to the Prime Minister's office so he could put on tefillin again, and he asked them to arrange for him to have his own pair of tefillin.\n\nThe Roving Rabbis share their experiences and communicate with each other on their own blog site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30865272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865272", "title": "Misyar marriage", "text": "Misyar marriage\n\nA \"misyar\" marriage' ( or more often \"zawaj al-misyar\" \"traveller's marriage\") is a type of marriage contract in Sunni Islam (some aspects are similar to \"mutah\" marriage in Shia Islam). The husband and wife thus joined are able to renounce to some marital rights such as living together, the wife's rights to housing and maintenance money (\"nafaqa\"), and the husband's right to homekeeping and access.\n\nSome people consider that the \"misyar\" marriage can meet the needs of young people whose resources are too limited to settle down in a separate home; of divorcees, widows or widowers, who have their own residence and their own financial resources but cannot or do not want to marry again according to the usual formula, and of slightly older people who have not experienced marriage.\n\nSome Islamic lawyers add that this type of marriage fits the needs of a conservative society which punishes \"zina\" (fornication) and other sexual relationships which are established outside a marriage contract. Thus, some Muslim foreigners working in the Persian Gulf countries prefer to engage in \"misyar\" marriage rather than live alone for years. Many of them are actually already married with wives and children in their home country, but they cannot bring them to the region.\n\nThe Sheikh of al-Azhar mosque, Muhammad Sayyid Tantawi and theologian Yusuf Al-Qaradawi note in their writings and in their lectures that a major proportion of the men who take a spouse in the framework of the \"misyar\" marriage are already married men.\n\nMisyar marriage fits within the general rules of marriage in Sunni law, on condition merely that it fulfill all the requirements of the Shariah marriage contract, i.e.:\n\nHowever, there have been some Sunni scholars and organizations that have opposed the concept of \"Nikah Misyar\" altogether.\n\nIn the view of the Saudi Islamic lawyer and member of the Higher Council of Ulema of Saudi Arabia Abdullah bin Sulaiman bin Menie, the wife can, at any time as she sees fit, retract her renunciation of her financial rights and require of her husband that he give her all of her marital rights, including that he live with her and provide for her financial needs (\"nafaqa\"). The husband can then either do so, or grant her a divorce.\n\nFor these reasons, Professor Yusuf Al-Qaradawi observes that he does not promote this type of marriage, although he has to recognise that it is legal, since it fulfills all the requirements of the usual marriage contract. He states his preference that the clause of renunciation be not included within the marriage contract, but be the subject of a simple verbal agreement between the parties. He underlines the fact that Muslims are held by their commitments, whether they are written or verbal.\n\n\"Misyar\" has been suggested by some authors to be a comparable marriage with \"Nikah mut'ah\" (temporary marriage) and that they find it for the sole purpose of \"sexual gratification in a licit manner\".\nAccording to Karen Ruffle, assistant professor of religion at the University of Toronto, even though \"mutʿah\" is prohibited by Sunni schools of law, several types of impermanent marriage exist, including \"misyar\" (ambulant) marriage and \"ʿurfi\" (customary) marriage, which gained popularity in parts of the Sunni world. \nAccording to Florian Pohl, assistant professor of religion at Oxford College, \"misyar\" marriage is controversial issue in the Muslim world, as many see it as practice that encourages marriages for purely sexual purposes, or that it is used as a cover for a form of prostitution.\nIslamic scholars like Ibn Uthaimeen or Al-Albani claim, for their part, that \"misyar\" marriage may be legal but not moral. They agree that the wife can reclaim the rights which she gave up at the time of contract at any time. But, they are opposed to this type of marriage on the grounds that it contradicts the spirit of the Islamic law of marriage and that it has perverse effects on the woman, the family, and the community in general. Some \"ulama\" (scholars) have issued \"fatwas\" (legal opinions) in which they contend that \"misyar\" is \"zina\" (fornication). For Al-Albani, \"misyar\" marriage may even be considered as illicit, because it runs counter to the objectives and the spirit of marriage in Islam, as described in this verse from the Quran :\"And among His Signs is this, that He created for you mates from among yourselves, that ye may dwell in tranquility with them, and He has put love and mercy between your (hearts)…\"Al-Albani also underlines the social problems which can result from the \"misyar\" marriage, particularly in the event that children are born from this union. The children raised by their mother in a home from which the father is always absent without reason may suffer difficulties.\nIbn Baaz was asked about \"misyar\" marriage with the intention of divorce. He replied that it is permissible, and he along with Permanent Council (of Muftis), decreed that it is permissible. \"Someone asked him: In one of your tapes, you have a fatwa that it is permissible for someone in a Western country to get married with the intention of getting divorced after a specific period. What is the difference between this and between Mut'ah?Response: Yes, this fatwa has come from Permanent Council (of Muftis), and I am its leader, and we have ruled that it is permissible to marry with the intention of getting divorced, if this intention is between the servant and his Lord. If someone marries in a Western country, and his intention is that when he finishes his studies or finds a job or something like this that he will get divorced, then there is absolutely no problem with this in the opinion of all 'ulama. This intention is something between the servant and Allah, and is not a condition. The difference between this and Mut'ah is that Mut'ah has the condition of a definite time period, such as a month or two months or a year or two years and so forth. If the time period fends, then the Nikah is abrogated. This is the invalid form Mut'ah. However, if somebody marries according to the Sunnah of Allah and the Prophet, but he nonetheless holds the intention in his heart that when he leaves the (Western) country he will divorce, then there is no harm it. This intention might change, and so it is not something definite. This intention is not a condition, and it is something between the servant and his Lord. There is no harm in it, and it is one of the ways that a person may remain chaste and avoid fornication and debauchery. This is the statement of all people of knowledge.\"\nIbn Baaz was also asked:\"this kind of marriage is where the man marries a second, third or fourth wife, and the wife is in a situation that compels her to stay with her parents or one of them in her own house, and the husband goes to her at various times depending on the circumstances of both. What is the Islamic ruling on this type of marriage?\"He replied:\n\n\"There is nothing wrong with that if the marriage contract fulfills all the conditions set out by sharee’ah, which is the presence of the wali and the consent of both partners, and the presence of two witnesses of good character to the drawing up of the contract, and both partners being free of any impediments, because of the general meaning of the words of the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allaah be upon him): 'The conditions that are most deserving of being fulfilled are those by means of which intimacy becomes permissible for you' and 'The Muslims are bound by their conditions.' If the partners agree that the woman will stay with her family or that her share of the husband's time will be during the day and not during the night, or on certain days or certain nights, there is nothing wrong with that, so long as the marriage is announced and not hidden.\"\n\nHowever, some students of Ibn Baaz said that he later retracted the view that it is permissible, but no writings have been found to prove that.\n\nEarlier \"ulama\" (scholars) also noted consensus upon \"misyar\" marriage with the intention of divorce. Al-Nawawi wrote:\"Qazi said: ‘There is an unanimous agreement that whoever performs permanent marriage but his intent is to stay with her for a specific period, verily his marriage is valid, and it is not Mut’ah marriage, because Mut’ah marriage is based on a conditional period.\"\n\n'Abd al-'Azeez Aal al-Shaykh was asked:\n\n\"There is a lot of talk about misyaar marriage being haraam or halaal. We would like a definitive statement about this matter from you, with a description of its conditions and obligations, if it is permissible.\"\n\nHe replied:\n\n\"The conditions of marriage are that the two partners should be identified and give their consent, and there should be a wali (guardian) and two witnesses. If the conditions are met and the marriage is announced, and they do not agree to conceal it, either the husband, the wife or their guardians, and he offered a waleemah or wedding feast, then this marriage is valid, and you can call it whatever you want after that.\"\nShaykh al-Albani was asked about misyar marriage and he forbade it for two reasons:\n\nMuhammad Saalih al-Munajjid states:\n\n\"That if Misyaar marriage fulfils the conditions of a valid marriage, namely the proposal and acceptance, the consent of the wali and witnesses or announcement of the marriage, then it is a valid marriage contract, and it is good for some categories of men and women whose circumstances call for this type of marriage. But this may be taken advantage of by some whose religious commitment is weak, hence this permissibility should not be described as general in application in a fatwa, rather the situation of each couple should be examined, and if this kind of marriage is good for them then it should be permitted, otherwise they should not be allowed to do it. That is to prevent marriage for the sake of mere pleasure whilst losing the other benefits of marriage, and to prevent the marriage of two people whose marriage we may be certain is likely to fail and in which the wife will be neglected, such as one who will be away from his wife for many months, and will leave her on her own in an apartment, watching TV and visiting chat rooms and going on the internet. How can such a weak woman spend her time? This is different from one who lives with her family or children and has enough religious commitment, obedience, chastity and modesty to help her be patient during her husband's absence.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "139177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=139177", "title": "Nikolai Gogol", "text": "Nikolai Gogol\n\nNikolai Vasilievich Gogol (31 March 1809 – 4 March 1852) was a Russian dramatist of Ukrainian origin.\n\nAlthough Gogol was considered by his contemporaries to be one of the preeminent figures of the natural school of Russian literary realism, later critics have found in his work a fundamentally romantic sensibility, with strains of surrealism and the grotesque (\"The Nose\", \"Viy\", \"The Overcoat\", \"Nevsky Prospekt\"). His early works, such as \"Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka\", were influenced by his Ukrainian upbringing, Ukrainian culture and folklore. His later writing satirised political corruption in the Russian Empire (\"The Government Inspector\", \"Dead Souls\"). The novel \"Taras Bulba\" (1835) and the play \"Marriage\" (1842), along with the short stories \"Diary of a Madman\", \"The Tale of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich\", \"The Portrait\" and \"The Carriage\", are also among his best-known works.\n\nGogol was born in the Ukrainian Cossack village of Sorochyntsi, in Poltava Governorate of the Russian Empire, present-day Ukraine. His mother descended from Leonty Kosyarovsky, an officer of the Lubny Regiment in 1710. His father Vasily Gogol-Yanovsky, a descendant of Ukrainian Cossacks (see Lyzohub family) and who died when Gogol was 15 years old, belonged to the 'petty gentry', wrote poetry in Ukrainian and Russian, and was an amateur Ukrainian-language playwright. As was typical of the left-bank Ukrainian gentry of the early nineteenth century, the family spoke Ukrainian as well as Russian. As a child, Gogol helped stage Ukrainian-language plays in his uncle's home theater.\n\nIn 1820, Gogol went to a school of higher art in Nezhin (now Nizhyn Gogol State University) and remained there until 1828. It was there that he began writing. He was not popular among his schoolmates, who called him their \"mysterious dwarf\", but with two or three of them he formed lasting friendships. Very early he developed a dark and secretive disposition, marked by a painful self-consciousness and boundless ambition. Equally early he developed a talent for mimicry, which later made him a matchless reader of his own works and induced him to toy with the idea of becoming an actor.\n\nIn 1828, on leaving school, Gogol came to Saint Petersburg, full of vague but glowingly ambitious hopes. He had hoped for literary fame, and brought with him a Romantic poem of German idyllic life – \"Hans Küchelgarten\". He had it published, at his own expense, under the name of \"V. Alov.\" The magazines he sent it to almost universally derided it. He bought all the copies and destroyed them, swearing never to write poetry again.\n\nGogol was in touch with the \"literary aristocracy\", had a story published in Anton Delvig's \"Northern Flowers\", was taken up by Vasily Zhukovsky and Pyotr Pletnyov, and (in 1831) was introduced to Pushkin.\n\nIn 1831 Gogol brought out the first volume of his Ukrainian stories (\"Evenings on a Farm Near Dikanka\"), which met with immediate success. He followed it in 1832 with a second volume, and in 1835 by two volumes of stories entitled \"Mirgorod\", as well as by two volumes of miscellaneous prose entitled \"Arabesques\". At this time Russian editors and critics such as Nikolai Polevoy and Nikolai Nadezhdin saw in Gogol the emergence of a Ukrainian, rather than Russian, writer, using his works to illustrate supposed differences between Russian and Ukrainian national characters. The themes and style of these early prose works by Gogol, as well as his later drama, were similar to the work of Ukrainian writers and dramatists who were his contemporaries and friends, including Hryhory Kvitka-Osnovyanenko and Vasily Narezhny. However, Gogol's satire was much more sophisticated and unconventional.\n\nAt this time, Gogol developed a passion for Ukrainian history and tried to obtain an appointment to the history department at Kiev University. Despite the support of Pushkin and Sergey Uvarov, the Russian minister of education, his appointment was blocked by a Kyivan bureaucrat on the grounds that Gogol was unqualified. His fictional story \"Taras Bulba\", based on the history of Ukrainian cossacks, was the result of this phase in his interests. During this time he also developed a close and lifelong friendship with another Ukrainian, the historian and naturalist Mykhaylo Maksymovych.\n\nIn 1834 Gogol was made Professor of Medieval History at the University of St. Petersburg, a job for which he had no qualifications. He turned in a performance ludicrous enough to warrant satiric treatment in one of his own stories. After an introductory lecture made up of brilliant generalizations which the 'historian' had prudently prepared and memorized, he gave up all pretence at erudition and teaching, missed two lectures out of three, and when he did appear, muttered unintelligibly through his teeth. At the final examination, he sat in utter silence with a black handkerchief wrapped around his head, simulating a toothache, while another professor interrogated the students.\" This academic venture proved a failure and he resigned his chair in 1835.\n\nBetween 1832 and 1836 Gogol worked with great energy, and though almost all his work has in one way or another its sources in these four years of contact with Pushkin, he had not yet decided that his ambitions were to be fulfilled by success in literature. During this time, the Russian critics Stepan Shevyrev and Vissarion Belinsky, contradicting earlier critics, reclassified Gogol from a Ukrainian to a Russian writer. It was only after the presentation at the Saint Petersburg State Theatre, on 19 April 1836, of his comedy \"The Government Inspector\" (\"Revizor\") that he finally came to believe in his literary vocation. The comedy, a violent satire of Russian provincial bureaucracy, was staged thanks only to the intervention of the emperor, Nicholas I.\n\nFrom 1836 to 1848 Gogol lived abroad, travelling through Germany and Switzerland. Gogol spent the winter of 1836–37 in Paris, among Russian expatriates and Polish exiles, frequently meeting the Polish poets Adam Mickiewicz and Bohdan Zaleski. He eventually settled in Rome. For much of the twelve years from 1836 Gogol was in Italy developing an adoration for Rome. He studied art, read Italian literature and developed a passion for opera. He mingled with Russian and other visitors, and in 1838 met Count Joseph Vielhorskiy, the 23-year-old son of the official who had brought Gogol's \"Government Inspector\" to the attention of the emperor. Vielhorsky was travelling in hopes of curing his tuberculosis. Gogol and Vielhorsky fell in love, a relationship which was soon severed as Vielhorsky died in 1839. Gogol left an account of this time in his \"Nights at the Villa:\" \"if my death could restore him to health, with what readiness I would have rushed toward it!\"\n\nPushkin's death produced a strong impression on Gogol. His principal work during the years following Pushkin's death was the satirical epic \"Dead Souls\". Concurrently, he worked at other tasks – recast \"Taras Bulba\" and \"The Portrait\", completed his second comedy, \"Marriage\" (\"Zhenitba\"), wrote the fragment \"Rome\" and his most famous short story, \"The Overcoat\".\n\nIn 1841 the first part of \"Dead Souls\" was ready, and Gogol took it to Russia to supervise its printing. It appeared in Moscow in 1842, under the title, imposed by the censorship, of \"The Adventures of Chichikov\". The book instantly established his reputation as the greatest prose writer in the language.\n\nAfter the triumph of \"Dead Souls\", Gogol's contemporaries came to regard him as a great satirist who lampooned the unseemly sides of Imperial Russia. Little did they know that \"Dead Souls\" was but the first part of a planned modern-day counterpart to the \"Divine Comedy\" of Dante. The first part represented the \"Inferno\"; the second part would depict the gradual purification and transformation of the rogue Chichikov under the influence of virtuous publicans and governors – \"Purgatory\".\n\nIn April 1848 Gogol returned to Russia from a pilgrimage to Jerusalem and passed his last years in restless movement throughout the country. While visiting the capitals, he stayed with friends such as Mikhail Pogodin and Sergey Aksakov. During this period, he also spent much time with his old Ukrainian friends, Maksymovych and Osyp Bodiansky. He intensified his relationship with a starets or spiritual elder, Matvey Konstantinovsky, whom he had known for several years. Konstantinovsky seems to have strengthened in Gogol the fear of perdition by insisting on the sinfulness of all his imaginative work. Exaggerated ascetic practices undermined his health and he fell into a state of deep depression. On the night of 24 February 1852 he burned some of his manuscripts, which contained most of the second part of \"Dead Souls\". He explained this as a mistake, a practical joke played on him by the Devil. Soon thereafter, he took to bed, refused all food, and died in great pain nine days later.\n\nGogol was mourned in the Saint Tatiana church at the Moscow University before his burial and then buried at the Danilov Monastery, close to his fellow Slavophile Aleksey Khomyakov. His grave was marked by a large stone (Golgotha), topped by a Russian Orthodox cross. In 1931, Moscow authorities decided to demolish the monastery and had Gogol's remains transferred to the Novodevichy Cemetery.\n\nHis body was discovered lying face down, which gave rise to the story that Gogol had been buried alive. The authorities moved the Golgotha stone to the new gravesite, but removed the cross; in 1952 the Soviets replaced the stone with a bust of Gogol. The stone was later reused for the tomb of Gogol's admirer Mikhail Bulgakov. In 2009, in connection with the bicentennial of Gogol's birth, the bust was moved to the museum at Novodevichy Cemetery, and the original Golgotha stone was returned, along with a copy of the original Orthodox cross.\n\nThe first Gogol monument in Moscow, a Symbolist statue on Arbat Square, represented the sculptor Nikolay Andreyev's idea of Gogol rather than the real man. Unveiled in 1909, the statue received praise from Ilya Repin and from Leo Tolstoy as an outstanding projection of Gogol's tortured personality. Joseph Stalin did not like it, however, and the statue was replaced by a more orthodox Socialist Realism monument in 1952. It took enormous efforts to save Andreyev's original work from destruction; it stands in front of the house where Gogol died.\n\nD. S. Mirsky characterized Gogol's universe as \"one of the most marvellous, unexpected – in the strictest sense, original – worlds ever created by an artist of words\".\n\nThe other main characteristic of Gogol's writing is his 'impressionist' vision of reality and people. He saw the outer world romantically metamorphosed, a singular gift particularly evident from the fantastic spatial transformations in his Gothic stories, \"A Terrible Vengeance\" and \"A Bewitched Place\". His pictures of nature are strange mounds of detail heaped on detail, resulting in an unconnected chaos of things. His people are caricatures, drawn with the method of the caricaturist – which is to exaggerate salient features and to reduce them to geometrical pattern. But these cartoons have a convincingness, a truthfulness, and inevitability – attained as a rule by slight but definitive strokes of unexpected reality – that seems to beggar the visible world itself.\n\nThe aspect under which the mature Gogol sees reality is expressed by the Russian word \"poshlost'\", which means something similar to \"triviality, banality, inferiority\", moral and spiritual, widespread in some group or society. Like Sterne before him, Gogol was a great destroyer of prohibitions and of romantic illusions. He undermined Russian Romanticism by making vulgarity reign where only the sublime and the beautiful had reigned. \"Characteristic of Gogol is a sense of boundless superfluity that is soon revealed as utter emptiness and a rich comedy that suddenly turns into metaphysical horror.\"\nHis stories often interweave pathos and mockery, while \"The Tale of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich\" begins as a merry farce and ends with the famous dictum, \"It is dull in this world, gentlemen!\"\n\nIt stunned Gogol when many interpreted \"The Government Inspector\" as an indictment of tsarism despite Nicholas I's patronage of the play. Gogol himself, an adherent of the Slavophile movement, believed in a divinely inspired mission for both the House of Romanov and the Russian Orthodox Church. Similar to Fyodor Dostoyevsky, Gogol sharply disagreed with those Russians who preached constitutional monarchy and the disestablishment of the Orthodox Church.\n\nAfter defending autocracy, serfdom, and the Orthodox Church in his book \"Selected Passages from Correspondence with his Friends\" (1847), Gogol came under attack from his former patron Vissarion Belinsky. The first Russian intellectual to publicly preach the economic theories of Karl Marx, Belinsky accused Gogol of betraying his readership by defending the \"status quo\".\n\nEven before the publication of \"Dead Souls\", Belinsky recognized Gogol as the first realist writer in the language and the head of the Natural School, to which he also assigned such younger or lesser authors as Goncharov, Turgenev, Dmitry Grigorovich, Vladimir Dahl and Vladimir Sollogub. Gogol himself seemed to be skeptical about the existence of such a literary movement. Although he recognized \"several young writers\" who \"have shown a particular desire to observe real life\", he upbraided the deficient composition and style of their works. Nevertheless, subsequent generations of radical critics celebrated Gogol (the author in whose world a nose roams the streets of the Russian capital) as a great realist, a reputation decried by the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" as \"the triumph of Gogolesque irony\".\n\nThe period of modernism saw a revival of interest in and a change of attitude towards Gogol's work. One of the pioneering works of Russian formalism was Eichenbaum's reappraisal of \"The Overcoat\". In the 1920s, a group of Russian short story writers, known as the Serapion Brothers, placed Gogol among their precursors and consciously sought to imitate his techniques. The leading novelists of the period – notably Yevgeny Zamyatin and Mikhail Bulgakov – also admired Gogol and followed in his footsteps. In 1926, Vsevolod Meyerhold staged \"The Government Inspector\" as a \"comedy of the absurd situation\", revealing to his fascinated spectators a corrupt world of endless self-deception. In 1934, Andrei Bely published the most meticulous study of Gogol's literary techniques up to that date, in which he analyzed the colours prevalent in Gogol's work depending on the period, his impressionistic use of verbs, expressive discontinuity of his syntax, complicated rhythmical patterns of his sentences, and many other secrets of his craft. Based on this work, Vladimir Nabokov published a summary account of Gogol's masterpieces in 1944.\nGogol's impact on Russian literature has been enduring, yet his works have been appreciated differently by various critics. Belinsky, for instance, berated his horror stories as \"moribund, monstrous works\", while Andrei Bely counted them among his most stylistically daring creations. Nabokov especially admired \"Dead Souls\", \"The Government Inspector\", and \"The Overcoat\" as works of genius, proclaiming that \"when, as in his immortal 'The Overcoat', Gogol really let himself go and pottered happily on the brink of his private abyss, he became the greatest artist that Russia has yet produced.\" \"The Overcoat\" was traditionally interpreted as a masterpiece of \"humanitarian realism\", but Nabokov and some other attentive readers argued that \"holes in the language\" make the story susceptible to interpretation as a supernatural tale about a ghostly double of a \"small man\". Of all Gogol's stories, \"The Nose\" has stubbornly defied all abstruse interpretations: D.S. Mirsky declared it \"a piece of sheer play, almost sheer nonsense\".\n\nGogol's oeuvre has also had a large impact on Russia's non-literary culture, and his stories have been adapted numerous times into opera and film. Russian Composer Alfred Schnittke wrote the eight part \"Gogol Suite\" as incidental music to \"The Government Inspector\" performed as a play, and composer Dmitri Shostakovich set \"\"\"The Nose\"\"\" as his first opera in 1930, despite the peculiar choice of subject for what was meant to initiate the great tradition of Soviet opera. Most recently, to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Gogol's birth, Vienna's renowned Theater an der Wien commissioned music and libretto for a full-length opera on the life of Gogol from Russian composer and writer Lera Auerbach.\n\nSome attention has also been given to the apparent anti-Semitism in Gogol's writings, as well as those of his contemporary, Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Felix Dreizin and David Guaspari, for example, in their \"The Russian Soul and the Jew: Essays in Literary Ethnocentrism\" discuss \"the significance of the Jewish characters and the negative image of the Ukrainian Jewish community in Gogol's novel \"Taras Bulba\", pointing out Gogol's attachment to anti-Jewish prejudices prevalent in Russian and Ukrainian culture.\" In Leon Poliakov's \"The History of Antisemitism\", the author mentions that \"The 'Yankel' from \"Taras Bulba\" indeed became the archetypal Jew in Russian literature. Gogol painted him as supremely exploitative, cowardly, and repulsive, albeit capable of gratitude. But it seems perfectly natural in the story that he and his cohorts be drowned in the Dniper by the Cossack lords. Above all, Yankel is ridiculous, and the image of the plucked chicken that Gogol used has made the rounds of great Russian authors.\"\n\nDespite his problematic portrayal of Jewish characters, Gogol left a powerful impression even on Jewish writers who inherited his literary legacy. Amelia Glaser has noted the influence of Gogol's literary innovations on Sholem Aleichem, who \"chose to model much of his writing, and even his appearance, on Gogol... What Sholem Aleichem was borrowing from Gogol was a rural East European landscape that may have been dangerous, but could unite readers through the power of collective memory. He also learned from Gogol to soften this danger through laughter, and he often rewrites Gogol's Jewish characters, correcting anti-Semitic stereotypes and narrating history from a Jewish perspective.\"\n\nBBC Radio 4 made a series of six Gogol short stories, entitled \"Three Ivans, Two Aunts and an Overcoat\" (2002, adaptations by Jim Poyser) starring Griff Rhys-Jones and Stephen Moore. The stories adapted were \"The Two Ivans\", \"The Overcoat\", \"Ivan Fyodorovich Shponka and His Aunt\", \"The Nose\", \"The Mysterious Portrait\" and \"Diary of a Madman\".\n\nGogol's short story \"Christmas Eve\" was adapted into operatic form twice by Tchaikovsky, first as \"Vakula the Smith\" in 1874, then as \"The Tsarina's Slippers\" in 1885; Rimsky-Korsakov also wrote an opera based on the same story in 1894. The story was also adapted for radio by Adam Beeson and broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 24 December 2008 and subsequently rebroadcast on both Radio 4 and Radio 4 Extra on Christmas Eve 2010, 2011 and 2015;\n\nGogol's story \"Viy\" was adapted into film by Russian filmmakers four times: the original \"Viy\" in 1967; the horror film \"Vedma\" (aka \"The Power of Fear\") in 2006; the action-horror film \"Viy\" in 2014; and the horror film \"Gogol Viy\" released in 2018. It was also adapted into the Russian FMV video game \"Viy: The Story Retold\" (2004). Outside of Russia, the film loosely served as the inspiration for Mario Bava's film \"Black Sunday\" (1960) and the South Korean horror film \"Evil Spirit: Viy\" (2008).\n\nGogol's short story \"The Portrait\" is being made into a feature film \"The Portrait\" by fine artists Anastasia Elena Baranoff and Elena Vladimir Baranoff.\n\nThe Russian TV-3 television series \"Gogol\" features Nikolai Gogol as a lead character and presents a fictionalized version of his life that mixes his history with elements from his various stories. The episodes were also released theatrically starting with \"Gogol. The Beginning\" in August 2017. A sequel entitled \"Gogol: Viy\" was released in April 2018 and the third film \"Gogol: Terrible Revenge\" debuted in August 2018.\n\nGogol has been featured many times on Russian and Soviet postage stamps; he is also well represented on stamps worldwide. Several commemorative coins have been issued from Russia and the USSR. In 2009, the National Bank of Ukraine issued a commemorative coin dedicated to Gogol. Streets have been named after Gogol in various towns, including Moscow, Sofia, Lipetsk, Odessa, Myrhorod, Krasnodar, Vladimir, Vladivostok, Penza, Petrozavodsk, Riga, Bratislava, Belgrade, Harbin and many other towns and cities.\n\nGogol is mentioned several times in Fyodor Dostoyevsky's \"Poor Folk\" and \"Crime and Punishment\" and Chekhov's \"The Seagull\". More than 135 films have been based on Gogol's work, the most recent being \"The Girl in the White Coat\" (2011).\n\nThe main character in Jhumpa Lahiri's 2003 novel \"The Namesake\" and its 2006 movie is named after Nikolai Gogol, because his father survives a train crash while clutching onto a copy of one of Gogol's books in his hand.\n\nAn eponymous poem \"Gogol\" by the poet-diplomat Abhay K refers to some of the great works of Gogol such as \"The Nose\", \"The Overcoat\", \"Nevsky Prospekt\", \"Dead Souls\" and \"The Government Inspector\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1984439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984439", "title": "Religion and the Internet", "text": "Religion and the Internet\n\nReligions are represented in the Internet in many ways. There are sites which attempt to cover all religions, traditions, and faiths, such as Patheos (which also provides a forum for atheism/humanism), Religious Tolerance, and Beliefnet, in addition to sites that are specific to a religious tradition. Many sites are discussion groups, others theological debates and some attempt to provide advice concerning religious doctrine. There are also sites that aim to provide a religious experience facilitating prayer, meditation, or virtual pilgrimages. People also leverage search engines to investigate aspects of religion.\n\nThere have been a number of attempts to create online Christian communities, usually supplementing, but occasionally attempting to replace, more traditional, brick and mortar Christian communities. It is common for even moderate sized Christian churches with only a few hundred members to have web sites to advertise themselves and communicate with their congregations. For example, Scott Thumma, a faculty associate at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research found that in the U.S. between 1998 and 2002, the ratio of churches with web sites went from 11 percent to 45 percent. Most sites concentrate on teaching and discussion. Some experiment with virtual meetings in cyberspace, and attempt to incorporate teaching, prayer, worship and even music into the experience. The i-church is the first Internet community to be fully recognised as an Anglican church.\n\nAfter being reassigned to the sinecure diocese of Partenia (a major Algerian city, that was consumed by the Sahara in the 5th century) by Pope John Paul II in 1995 as punishment for his controversial views, Roman Catholic Bishop Jacques Gaillot set up a website for the \"diocese without borders.\"\n\nThere are various web sites that aim to cover all of the Hindu religious traditions, including for example the Hindu Universe, which is maintained by the Hindu Studies Council. The site includes Hindu scripture and commentaries of the Rig Veda, Upanishads, the Bhagvad Gita and the laws of Manu.\n\nIn addition, there are a large number of web sites devoted to specific aspects of the Hindu tradition. For example, the major epics, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, have web sites devoted to their study. There is a site devoted to the Kumbh Mela pilgrimage, giving Internet users the opportunity to join the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims who gather in Allahabad to bathe in the Ganges. Sites like Saranam.com allow worshippers to order a puja at the Hindu temple of their choosing and many pages have image of deities, which are thought to convey Darshan in the same manner as temple figures. The followers of Sri Vaishnava, Swaminarayan Sampraday and Dvaita Vedanta have web sites, and the International Society for Krishna Consciousness, also known as the Hare Krishnas, have their own site, which includes a Hare Krishna Network. Temples now webcast darshan live on the internet. In fact, important events too are broadcast live on the internet. For example, the Swaminarayan Temple in Cardiff broadcast its 25th anniversary celebrations live on the internet in 2007.\n\nIslamic sites fulfill a number of distinct roles, such as providing advice concerning religious doctrine, download daily prayers and for taking the shahadah over the Internet. For example, the Islam Page is a comprehensive Islamic web site, which links to a complete version of the Quran. Sites such as the Islam-Online site, according to Gary Bunt of the University of Wales, provide information about Islamic doctrine in addition to advice concerning individual problems including marriage, worship and Internet use. In order to answer online questions, an Imam or a team of religious scholars frequently provide a fatwa. These are stored in databases, which allow online users to search for their specific query. Gary Bunt has commented this has the advantage of facilitating resolution to issues that are considered dangerous or embarrassing to raise within the domestic framework.\n\nSeveral websites and blogs cover Judaism and Jewish life on the web. Some websites argue a certain religious or political viewpoint, while some take a purely cultural or secular focus. Conservative, Modern Orthodox, post-denominational, Reform, secular, and Haredi Jews are involved in writing J-blogs. Some J-bloggers, although religious in practice, use their blogs to discuss theological views which are skeptical or nonconformist. J-blogs fall into radical, liberal and conservative camps with respect to all Jewish communities across the world. Several blogs, such as CampusJ and Jewschool, cover Jewish life on campus.\n\nThe Internet has \"shipped\" Vodou via cyberspace, increasing it's accessibility outside of a Haitian context as there is no central text to be shared. Alexandra Boutros explains that while Vodou was formerly secret, it is now public, widespread, and available for consumption by any through the cyber world. Her concern is that the shipping of Vodou has led Internet, much like popular culture, to be full of \"voodoo that is not Vodou.\" \"Voodoo\" is a spelling used to denote tropes of Vodou, the Haitian tradition, which perpetuate misunderstandings, lies, and stereotypes. As such, Boutros explains that online Vodou, as well as cyberspirituality in general, are not representations of \"real religions in real places,\" but instead are their own \"dynamic entity,\" and this is an important distinction to make when studying Vodou or any other religion and its online presence.\n\nMany new religious movements have websites. A website of the Church of Scientology, for example, allows visitors to take an online personality test (the Oxford Capacity Analysis); however, to review the full results of this test, one has to make an appointment to meet a church representative in person. There has also been a series of legal battles—sometimes referred to as Scientology versus the Internet—concerning the publishing of esoteric teachings such as the \"space opera\" and, more specifically, Xenu.\n\nAccording to Stephen O'Leary of the University of Southern California, the Falun Gong's Internet awareness was an important factor in its ability to organize unauthorized demonstrations in the People's Republic of China. The group's leader, Li Hongzhi, was able to use the Internet to coordinate the movement, although he currently lives in New York.\n\nThere are various religious movements that have used the Internet extensively and this has been studied by academics, in the field of sociology of religion. Examples cited by Adam Possamai, of the University of Western Sydney, include Jediism and Matrixism. Possamai uses the term 'hyper-real religion' to describe these religions mixed with popular culture, arguing that they are part of the consumer logic of late capitalism and are enhanced by the growing use of the internet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13678104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13678104", "title": "Religion in South America", "text": "Religion in South America\n\nChristianity is the main religion in South America, with Roman Catholics having the most adherents. Sizeable minorities of non-religious people and adherents of other religions are also present.\n\nCurrently, all countries in the region in general are separate of the Catholic Church and declared laic states, which guarantees freedom of religion for its inhabitants. The last country to approve the freedom of religion was Bolivia (since 2008).\n\nAccording to the Association of Religion Data Archives 91.9% of the South American population is Christian, although less than half of them are praticant.\n\nExcept for Suriname and Uruguay, the more professed religion in the South American countries is the Catholic religion. While countries such as Paraguay, Peru, Colombia and Argentina more than three-quarters of the population is Catholic, in Chile it is 57%.\n\nCatholicism was the only religion allowed in the colonial era; the indigenous were forced to abandon their beliefs, although many did not abandon it at all, for example, countries with predominantly Amerindian population such as Bolivia and Peru there is a syncretism between indigenous religions and the Catholic religion, that has occurred since colonial times. In Brazil or Colombia, Catholicism was mixed with certain African rituals.\n\nProtestantism has been a presence since the nineteenth century, as a minority, but has had a strong increase since the 1980s. The majority of Latin American Protestants in general are Pentecostals. Brazil today is the most evangelical country in South America, where 89% of Brazilians evangelicals are Pentecostals, in Chile represents 79% of the total evangelicals in that country, 69% in Argentina and 59% in Colombia. On the other part, in Uruguay 66% of evangelicals are Methodists, while only 20% are Pentecostal.\n\nBrazil is the country with more practitioners in the world of Allan Kardec's codification of the Spiritism, followed by over 12 million people, with 30 to 45 million sympathizers. Most followers of the Spiritism are highly educated people that were mostly Catholic, Protests and Atheists respectively. Despite the Spiritism does not recognize Jesus as God or the only son of God, but as the most illuminated spirit that were born on Earth, the Spiritism is also considered as Christian religion, in addition to science and philosophy, as \"The Spirits Book\" explain it, at its 1019 questions and answers. The basic books of the codification includes The Spirits Book, The Book on Mediums, The Gospel According to Spiritism, Heaven and Hell and The Genesis According to Spiritism. \n\nChico Xavier wrote over 490 books, which complements the spiritualist doctrine.\n\nEastern Orthodox Christianity was brought to South America by groups of immigrants from several different regions, mainly Eastern Europe and the Middle East. This traditional branch of Eastern Christianity has also spread beyond the boundaries of immigrant communities. There are several Eastern Orthodox ecclesiastical jurisdictions in South America, organized within the Assembly of Canonical Orthodox Bishops of Latin America.\n\nSeveral groups of Christian immigrants, mainly from the Middle East, Caucasus, Africa and India, brought Oriental Orthodoxy to the South America. This ancient branch of Eastern Christianity includes several ecclesiastical jurisdictions in the South America, like Coptic Orthodox Church in South America and Syriac Orthodox Church.\n\nPractitioners of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and Jehovah's Witnesses religions also are exercised in Latin America.\n\nArgentina has the largest communities of both Jews and Muslims in Latin America.\n\nPractitioners of the Judaism, Buddhist, Islamic, Hinduism, Bahá'í Faith, and Shinto denominations and religions also exercised in Latin America. \n\nIndigenous creeds and rituals are still practised in countries with large percentages of Amerindians, such as Bolivia and Peru.\n\nPart of Religions in South America (2013):\n\n"}
{"id": "41306033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41306033", "title": "Sanjiejiao", "text": "Sanjiejiao\n\nThree Levels Movement, the Sanjiejiao (三階教) or Pufazong (普法宗) is a popular religious movement based on the teachings of the Chinese Chán monk teacher Xinxing (信行禪師)(540-594).\n\nXinxing taught that in the stage of mofa Buddhists must learn all Buddhist teachings (Pufa). He taught tapas, begging for food, eating only one meal daily, worshiping all living things as Buddhas (based on the Tathagatagarbha doctrine), building endless treasure houses, or Wujinzangyuan (無盡藏院) for giving charity to monks and people, and sky burial.\n\nBased in Hua Du monastery (化度寺) in Chang'an, the movement was very popular in 600-700 CE. The monks lived in the Sanjiejiao house, or Sanjieyuan (三階院) inside Buddhist monasteries and built endless treasure houses. Its practices faced heavy criticism from many Buddhists and restriction by Buddhist Emperor Wen of Sui and Wu Zetian as unorthodox teachings. Emperor Xuanzong of Tang ordered the destruction of the Wujinzangyuan, the Sanjieyuan and the school's texts, sparing only the treasure houses. Bhikkhuni Zongjing (總靜) in the Zhixin monastery(直心寺) was a known practitioner who died in 831. Some texts, such as part of the three stages teachings (三階教法) were preserved in Japanese monasteries. Some were also found in Dunhuang texts and grottoes.\n\n"}
{"id": "27596908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27596908", "title": "Second Temple Judaism", "text": "Second Temple Judaism\n\nSecond Temple Judaism is Judaism between the construction of the Second Temple in Jerusalem, c. 515 BCE, and its destruction by the Romans in 70 CE. The development of the Hebrew Bible canon, the synagogue, Jewish apocalyptic expectations for the future, and the rise of Christianity, can all be traced to the Second Temple period.\n\n\"(Note: dates and periods are in many cases approximate and/or conventional)\"\n\nThe period of the First Temple ended in 586 BCE when the Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar captured Jerusalem, destroyed the Temple of Solomon, and deported the elite of the population to Babylon (the \"Babylonian exile\"). In 539 BCE Babylon itself fell to the Persian conqueror Cyrus, and in 538 BCE the exiles were permitted to return to Yehud medinata, as the Persian province of Judah was known. The Temple is commonly said to have been rebuilt in the period 520–515 BCE, but it seems probable that this is an artificial date chosen so that 70 years could be said to have passed between the destruction and the rebuilding, fulfilling a prophecy of Jeremiah.\n\nThe end of the Persian period is conventionally dated from Alexander the Great's conquest of the Mediterranean coast in 333/332 BCE. His empire disintegrated after his death, and Judea, including Jerusalem, fell to the Ptolemies, the descendants of one of Alexander's generals who ruled Egypt. In 200 BCE Israel and Yehud were captured by the Seleucids, the descendants of another Greek general ruling Syria. Around 167 BCE, for reasons that remain obscure, the Seleucid king Antiochus IV Epiphanes attempted to suppress Jewish worship; this provoked a Jewish revolt (the Maccabean Revolt) that eventually led to the effective end of Greek control over Jerusalem.\n\nHasmonean Judea was a client kingdom of the Romans, and in the 1st century BCE the Romans first replaced them with their protege Herod the Great, and, on Herod's death in 6 CE, made Judea a province under Rome's direct rule. Heavy taxes under the Romans and insensitivity towards the Jewish religion led to revolt (the First Jewish–Roman War, 66–73 CE), and in 70 CE the Roman general (and later emperor) Titus captured Jerusalem and destroyed the Temple, bringing an end to the Second Temple period.\n\nThe Jewish exiles in Babylon were not slaves or prisoners, nor were they badly treated, and when the Persians gave permission for them to return to Jerusalem the majority elected to remain where they were. They and their descendants formed the diaspora, a large community of Jews living outside Judea, and the 1st century CE historian Josephus reported that there were more Jews in Syria (meaning the Seleucid empire) than in any other land. There was also significant Egyptian diaspora, although the Jews of Egypt were immigrants, not deportees, \"...attracted by Hellenistic culture, eager to win the respect of the Greeks and to adapt to their ways\" (John J. Collins, \"Between Athens and Jerusalem). The Egyptian diaspora was slow to develop, but in the Hellenistic period it came to outstrip the Babylonian community in importance. In addition to these major centres there were Jewish communities throughout the Hellenistic and subsequently the Roman world, from North Africa to Asia Minor and Greece and in Rome itself.\n\nThe separation between Jews of Jerusalem and those of Samaria was a long and protracted process. For most of the Second Temple period Samaria was larger, richer, and more populous than Judea—down to about 164 BCE there were probably more Samaritans than Judeans living in Palestine. They had their own temple on Mount Gerizim near Shechem and regarded themselves as the only true Israel, the remnant left behind when Israel was deceived by the wicked priest Eli to leave Gerizim and worship at Jerusalem. Second Temple Judeans regarded them as foreign converts and the offspring of mixed marriages, and therefore of impure blood. Relations between the two communities were often strained, but the definitive break dates from the destruction of the Gerizim temple and of Shechem by a Hasmonean king in the late 2nd century BCE; before that the Samaritans seem to have regarded themselves as part of the wider Jewish community, but afterwards they denounced the Jerusalem temple as completely unacceptable to God.\n\nIn recent decades it has become increasingly common among scholars to assume that much of the Hebrew bible was assembled, revised and edited in the 5th century BCE to reflect the realities and challenges of the Persian era. The returnees had a particular interest in the history of Israel: the written Torah (the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy), for example, may have existed in various forms during the Monarchy (the period of the kingdoms of Israel and Judah), but it was in the Second Temple that it was edited and revised into something like its current form, and the Chronicles, a new history written at this time, reflects the concerns of the Persian Yehud in its almost-exclusive focus on Judah and the Temple.\n\nProphetic works were also of particular interest to the Persian-era authors, with some works being composed at this time (the last ten chapters of Isaiah and the books of Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi and perhaps Joel) and the older prophets edited and reinterpreted.The corpus of Wisdom books saw the composition of Job, parts of Proverbs, and possibly Ecclesiastes, while the book of Psalms was possibly given its modern shape and division into five parts at this time (although the collection continued to be revised and expanded well into Hellenistic and even Roman times).\n\nIn the Hellenistic period the scriptures were translated into Greek by the Jews of the Egyptian diaspora, who also produced a rich literature of their own covering epic poetry, philosophy, tragedy and other forms. Less is known of the Babylonian diaspora, but the Seleucid period produced works such as the court tales of the Book of Daniel (chapters 1-6 of Daniel - chapters 7-12 were a later addition), and the books of Tobit and Esther. The eastern Jews were also responsible for the adoption and transmission of the Babylonian and Persian apocalyptic tradition seen in Daniel.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible represents the beliefs of only a small portion of the Israelite community, the members of a tradition that insisted on the exclusive worship of Yahweh, who collected, edited and transmitted the biblical texts, and who saw their mission in a return to Jerusalem where they could impose their vision of genealogical purity, orthodox worship, and codified law on the local population. In the earliest stages of the Persian period the returnees insisted on strict separation between themselves (\"Israel\") and the Judeans who had never gone into exile (\"Canaanites\"), to the extent of prohibiting intermarriage; this was presented in terms of religious purity, but there may have been a practical concern for land ownership. The concept of the Jewish people as a people chosen by God gave rise to innumerable break-away movements, each declaring that it alone represented Jewish holiness; the most extreme example was the Qumran sect (the Essenes), but Christianity too began as a Jewish sect that saw itself as the \"true Israel\".\n\nSecond Temple Judaism was centered not on synagogues, which began to appear only in the 3rd century BCE, and the reading and study of scripture, but on the Temple itself, and on a cycle of continual blood sacrifice (meaning the sacrifice of live animals). Torah, or ritual law, was also important, and the Temple priests were responsible for teaching it, but the concept of scripture developed only slowly. While the written Torah (the Pentateuch) and the Prophets were accepted as authoritative by the 1st century CE, beyond this core the different Jewish groups continued to accept different groups of books as authoritative.\n\nThe priesthood underwent profound changes with the Second Temple. Under the First Temple the priesthood had been subordinate to the kings, but in the Second Temple, with the monarchy and even the state no longer available, they became independent. The priesthood under the High Priest (a position largely unknown in earlier times) became the governing authority, making the province of Yehud in a sense a theocracy, although it seems unlikely that it had any more autonomy than was typical of the empire as a whole. In the Hellenistic period the High Priest continued to play a vital role with both cultic and civic obligations, and the office reached its height under the Hasmoneans, who made themselves priest-kings. Both Herod and the Romans severely reduced the importance of the office, appointing and deposing High Priests to suit their purposes.\n\nThere was a sharp break between ancient Israelite religion and the Judaism of the Second Temple. Pre-exilic Israel was polytheistic; Asherah was probably worshiped as Yahweh's consort, within his temples in Jerusalem, Bethel, and Samaria, and a goddess called the Queen of Heaven, probably a fusion of Astarte and the Mesopotamian goddess Ishtar, was also worshiped. Baal and Yahweh coexisted in the early period, but were considered irreconcilable after the 9th century. The worship of Yahweh alone, the concern of a small party in the monarchic period, only gained ascendancy in the exilic and early post-exilic period, and it was only then that the very existence of other gods was denied.\n\nThe Persian period saw the development of expectation in a future human king who would rule purified Israel as God's representative at the end of time – that is, a messiah. The first to mention this were Haggai and Zechariah, both prophets of the early Persian period. They saw the messiah in Zerubbabel, a descendant of the House of David who seemed, briefly, to be about to re-establish the ancient royal line, or in Zerubbabel and the first High Priest, Joshua (Zechariah writes of two messiahs, one royal and the other priestly). These early hopes were dashed (Zerubabbel disappeared from the historical record, although the High Priests continued to be descended from Joshua), and thereafter there are merely general references to a Messiah of (meaning descended from) David.\n\nWisdom, or \"hokmah\", implied the learning acquired by study and formal education: \"those who can read and write, those who have engaged in study, and who know literature, are the wise \"par excellence\"\" (Grabbe, 2010, p.48). The literature associated with this tradition includes the books of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Songs, Sirach and the Wisdom of Solomon, the so-called Sapiential books.\n\nChristianity emerged within Judaism, the key difference being the Christian belief that Jesus was the resurrected Messiah. Judaism is known to allow for multiple messiahs, the two most relevant being Messiah ben Joseph and the Messiah ben David. The idea of two messiahs — one suffering and the second fulfilling the traditional messianic role— was normal in ancient Judaism, and in fact predated Jesus.\nAlan Segal has written that \"one can speak of a 'twin birth' of two new Judaisms, both markedly different from the religious systems that preceded them. Not only were rabbinic Judaism and Christianity religious twins, but, like Jacob and Esau, the twin sons of Isaac and Rebecca, they fought in the womb, setting the stage for life after the womb.\"\nThe first Christians (the disciples or students of Jesus) were essentially all ethnically Jewish or Jewish proselytes. In other words, Jesus was Jewish, preached to the Jewish people and called from them his first disciples. Jewish Christians regarded \"Christianity\" as an affirmation of every aspect of contemporary Judaism, with the addition of one extra belief — that Jesus was the Messiah.\nThe doctrines of the apostles of Jesus brought the Early Church into conflict with some Jewish religious authorities (Acts records dispute over the resurrection of the dead, which was rejected by the Sadducees, see also Persecution of Christians in the New Testament), and possibly later led to Christians' expulsion from synagogues (see Council of Jamnia for other theories). \nWhile Marcionism rejected all Jewish influence on Christianity, Proto-orthodox Christianity instead retained some of the doctrines and practices of 1st-century Judaism while rejecting others, see the Historical background to the issue of Biblical law in Christianity and Early Christianity. They held the Jewish scriptures to be authoritative and sacred, employing mostly the Septuagint or Targum translations, and adding other texts as the New Testament canon developed. Christian baptism was another continuation of a Judaic practice.\n\nRecent work by historians paints a more complex portrait of late Second Temple Judaism and early Christianity. Some historians have suggested that, before his death, Jesus created amongst his believers such certainty that the Kingdom of God and the resurrection of the dead was at hand, that with few exceptions (John 20: 24-29) when they saw him shortly after his execution, they had no doubt that he had been resurrected, and that the restoration of the Kingdom and resurrecton of the dead was at hand. These specific beliefs were compatible with Second Temple Judaism. In the following years the restoration of the Kingdom, as Jews expected it, failed to occur. Some Christians began to believe instead that Christ, rather than simply being the Jewish messiah, was God made flesh, who died for the sins of humanity, marking the beginning of Christology.\n\nWhile on one hand Jesus and the early Christians had all been ethnically Jewish, the Jews by and large continued to reject Jesus as the Messiah. This was a source of embarrassment for the Church and affected early Christianity's relationship with Judaism and the surrounding pagan traditions. The anti-Christian polemicist Celsus criticised Jews for deserting their Jewish heritage while they had claimed to hold on to it. To the Emperor Julian, Christianity was simply an apostasy from Judaism. These factors hardened Christian attitudes towards Jewry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14063726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14063726", "title": "Seybert Commission", "text": "Seybert Commission\n\nThe Seybert Commission was a group of faculty members at the University of Pennsylvania who in 1884–1887 investigated a number of respected spiritualist mediums, uncovering fraud or suspected fraud in every case that they examined.\n\nAn ardent believer in Spiritualism, Henry Seybert left in his will funds for the establishment of an endowed chair in Philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania. As a condition to this bequest, he required that the University set up a commission to investigate \"all systems of Morals, Religion, or Philosophy which assume to represent the Truth, and particularly of Modern Spiritualism.\" Ten men served on the commission, all of whom declared themselves at the outset to either be neutral or favorably disposed toward Spiritualism. Among the more notable members were the University Provost William Pepper (a physician), the paleontologist Joseph Leidy, the Shakespearean scholar Horace Howard Furness (who served as the chairman), and the physician and writer Silas Weir Mitchell. Also on the commission was George Augustus Koenig, a chemist. A committed Spiritualist and close friend of Henry Seybert, Thomas Hazard, served as counselor, suggesting particular topics and mediums that should be investigated.\n\nThe topic most conclusively investigated was \"slate writing,\" in which the medium has two slates fastened together, so that the writing surfaces faced each other, out of reach of the medium, with a small piece of pencil between the two slates. The medium holds the slates in her lap, and spirits purportedly write on the slates, sending the pencil outside the slates when finished. The Commission investigated Mrs. S.E. Patterson and Dr. Henry Slade, both widely respected practitioners of slate writing. Mrs. Patterson proved unable to perform when under the scrutiny of the Commission, while Dr. Slade was found to be practicing fraud: either composing long, well-written messages before the séance, or loosening the screws holding the slates together and scrawling nearly illegible messages while holding the slates in his lap. The Commission also requested that a \"professional juggler\" attempt slate writing, and found that he was able to provide demonstrations \"much more remarkable\" than the \"puerile\" attempts at fraud by Dr. Slade. The Commission concluded that slate writing \n\"is performed in a manner so closely resembling fraud as to be indistinguishable from it. It would be a mere matter of opinion that all Independent Slate Writing is fraudulent; what is not a matter of opinion is the conviction, which we have unanimously reached as a Commission, of its non-spiritual character in every instance that has come before us.\"\n\nThe Commission also investigated \"rappings\", without coming to final conclusions. A thorough investigation of rappings required monitoring the medium's body closely to determine if the sound was caused by \"voluntary muscular action.\" Such monitoring was \"a matter of delicacy,\" and therefore difficult to accomplish. Nevertheless, the Commission was able to determine \"that the Mediums were invariably, and confessedly, cognizant of the rappings whenever they occurred, and could at once detect any spurious rappings, however exact and indistinguishable to all other ears might be the imitation.\" This finding suggested that the medium, rather than spirits, were the source of the rappings.\n\nThe commission investigated the physical mediumship of Pierre L. O. A. Keeler which involved the movement of musical instruments such as a guitar and a tambourine. The phenomena was suspected of being fraudulent, in most cases achieved if Keeler had been able to get his arm free from control.\n\nThe Commission attempted to examine a famed \"spirit photographer,\" William M. Keeler.\n\nSpirit photography, in the 1880s, was much like conventional portrait photography, except that the developed plates would show shadowy figures, usually identified by the subject as deceased loved ones. Mr. Keeler demanded such a high fee and imposed so many conditions on the Commission that they concluded that he was unwilling to be examined and that investigating him would be a waste of time. The Commission noted that \"In these days of 'Composite Photography' it is worse than childish to claim a Spiritual source for results which can be obtained at any time by any tyro in the art.\"\n\nThe Commission published a report in 1887 entitled \"Preliminary Report of the Commission Appointed by the University of Pennsylvania to Investigate Modern Spiritualism In Accordance with the Request of the Late Henry Seybert\", in which it expressed:\n\"...our regret that thus far we have not been cheered in our investigations by the discovery of a single novel fact; but, undeterred by this discouragement, we trust with your permission to continue them with what thoroughness our future opportunities may allow, and with minds as sincerely and honestly open, as heretofore, to conviction.\" The report was published by J.B. Lippincott, and angrily denounced by Spiritualists. There proved to be no sentiment for the Commission's continued existence, and it quietly disbanded.\n\nA number of independent investigators examined the claims of Spiritualists in the Nineteenth Century. The Seybert Commission stands as an example of reputable and impartial investigators concluding that Spiritualist mediums were engaging in fraud. The report's appendices provide a good primary source describing how Spiritualist mediums operated in the mid-1880s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4384220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4384220", "title": "Shide (Shinto)", "text": "Shide (Shinto)\n"}
{"id": "862192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862192", "title": "Sindoor", "text": "Sindoor\n\nSindoor or Sindooram is a traditional vermilion red or orange-red colored cosmetic powder from Indian Subcontinent, usually worn by married women along the part of their hair. In Hindu communities the use of sindoor indicates a woman is married and ceasing to wear it usually implies widowhood.\n\nThe main component of traditional sindooram is usually cinnabar, turmeric and lime. Some commercial sindoor products contain synthetic ingredients, some of which are not manufactured to proper standards and may contain mercury and lead.\n\nSindoor is traditionally applied at the beginning or completely along the parting-line of a woman’s hair (also called \"maang\" in Hindi or \"Seemandarekha\" in Sanskrit) or as a dot on the forehead. Sindoor is the mark of a married woman in Hinduism. Single women wear the bindi in different colors but do not apply sindoor in their parting of the hairline. Widows do not wear sindoor, signifying that their husband is no longer alive.\n\nThe sindoor is first applied to the woman by her husband on the day of her wedding; this is called the Sindoor Daanam ceremony. After this, she applies it herself every day.\n\nA similar coloring ritual is known as pasupu kumkuma, named after another name for sindoor, kumkuma.\n\nThe wiping off of the sindoor is very significant for a widow. There are many rituals associated with this practice. The most common is when a mother-in-law or older sister-in-law wipes off the sindoor when a woman becomes a widow. The widow will break her bangles and remove her bottu as well, and many will also remove their nose ring and toe rings. The parting of hair is symbolic of a river of red blood full of life. When the sindoor is removed then the river becomes barren, dry and empty. This custom is prevalent in rural areas and is followed by all castes and social ranks.\n\nThe red sindoor is significant for the married woman as she is full of colour. When she becomes a widow she adopts plain white dress and removes all colour from her face including the bright red sindoor.\n\nMethods and styles of applying the sindoor vary from personal choice to regional customs. Many new brides will fill the whole hair line with sindoor, while other married women may just apply a red spot at the end of the hair line and forehead. Recently, a triangle shape on the forehead pointing towards the nose, with a diamond bindi for fashion, is being worn by younger women.\n\nFemale figurines excavated at Mehrgarh, Baluchistan seem to imply application of sindoor to the partition of women's hair in Harappa culture. According to the legends, Radha the consort of Lord Krishna turned the kumkum into a flame-like design on her forehead. In the famous epic Mahabharata, Draupadi the wife of the Pandavas wipes off her sindoor in disgust and despair at the happenings in Hastinapura. Use of sindoor is frequently mentioned in the puranas \"Lalitha Sahasranama\" and \"Soundarya Lahari\".\n\nAdi Shankaracharya writes in \"Soundarya Lahari\":\nJain women apply the sindoor, mostly in the cities. Jain nuns are forbidden to apply this to their hair line or foreheads. The display of the sindoor is considered very important to indicate the married status of the groom, whereas in several local cultures, sindooram is applied on their hair partings by unmarried women.\n\nApplication of sindoor is essentially a Hindu tradition. In the 19th century, Sufi leader Sharafuddin Maneri encouraged Muslim women to apply sindoor in Bangladesh. This was severely condemned by reformist movements.\n\nThere are various forms of Sindhoor mentioned in Ayurveda. Traditional sindhoor is made from natural ingredients used for facial makeup(cosmetics). Most widely used traditional Sindhoor is made from turmeric and lime juice. Other ingredients include Ghee, and slaked lime. This is also called Kumkum. Sindhoor is also made from red sandal powder, saffron etc. The coloured powders sold as substitutes are traditionally not considered Sindhoor.\n\nModern material being sold as Sindhoor mainly uses vermilion, an orange-red pigment. Vermilion is the purified and powdered form of cinnabar, which is the chief form in which mercury sulfide naturally occurs. As with other compounds of mercury, sindoor is toxic and must be handled carefully. Sometimes, red lead (lead tetroxide, also known as minium) is added to sindoor. Red lead is toxic and a known carcinogen for laboratory animals, though its carcinogenicity to humans has not been established. Traditional sindoor was made with turmeric and alum or lime, or from other herbal ingredients. Unlike red lead and vermilion, these are not poisonous. In early 2008, allegations of high lead content led the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to recall batches of sindoor from several manufacturers.\n\nThere are many Indian movies and dramas involving sindoor, with their themes revolving around the ritual's significance. These include \"Sindoor\" (1947), \"Sindooram\" (1976), Rakta Sindhuram (1985), \"Sindoor\" (1987), and \"Sindoor Tere Naam Ka\" (series, 2005–2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "13622407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13622407", "title": "Soka Gakkai International", "text": "Soka Gakkai International\n\nThe Soka Gakkai International (SGI—\"Value Creation Association International\") is an international Nichiren Buddhist organization founded in 1975 by Daisaku Ikeda. The SGI is the world's largest Buddhist lay organization, with approximately 12 million Nichiren Buddhist practitioners in 192 countries and regions. It characterizes itself as a support network for practitioners of Nichiren Buddhism and a global Buddhist movement for \"peace, education, and cultural exchange.\"\n\nThe SGI is a non-governmental organization (NGO) with consultative status with UNESCO since 1983.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai International (SGI) was formed at a world peace conference of Nichiren Buddhists on January 26, 1975, on the island of Guam. Representatives from 51 countries attended the meeting and chose Daisaku Ikeda, who served as third president of the Japanese Buddhist organization Soka Gakkai, to become the SGI's founding president. The SGI was created in part as a new international peace movement, and its founding meeting was held in Guam in a symbolic gesture referencing Guam's history as the site of some of World War II's bloodiest battles, and proximity to Tinian Island, launching place of the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai's initial global expansion began after World War II, when some Soka Gakkai members married mostly American servicemen and moved away from Japan. Expansion efforts gained a further boost in 1960 when Daisaku Ikeda succeeded Jōsei Toda as president of the Soka Gakkai. In the first year of his presidency, Ikeda visited the United States, Canada, and Brazil, and the Soka Gakkai's first American headquarters officially opened in Los Angeles in 1963.\n\nIn 2000, Uruguay honored the 25th anniversary of the SGI's founding with a commemorative postage stamp. The stamp was issued on October 2, the anniversary of SGI President Ikeda's first overseas journey in 1960.\n\nIn January 2015, the director of the Peace Research Institute Oslo reported that the SGI had been nominated for the 2015 Nobel Peace Prize, as confirmed by a Nobel Peace Laureate.\n\nIn May 2015, the SGI-USA was one of the organizing groups for the first-ever Buddhist conference at the White House.\n\nIn June 2015, the SGI-Italy was recognized by the Italian government with a special accord under Italian Constitution Article 8, acknowledging it as an official religion of Italy and eligible to receive direct taxpayer funding for its religious and social activities. It also recognizes the Soka Gakkai as a \"Concordat\" (It: \"Intesa\") that grants the religions status in \"a special 'club' of denominations consulted by the government in certain occasions, allowed to appoint chaplains in the army - a concordat is not needed for appointing chaplains in hospitals and jails - and, perhaps more importantly, to be partially financed by taxpayers' money.\" Eleven other religious denominations share this status.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai International comprises a global network of affiliated organizations. As of 2011, the SGI reported active national organizations in 192 countries and territories with a total of approximately 12 million members. The SGI is independent of the Soka Gakkai (the domestic Japanese organization), although both are headquartered in Tokyo.\n\nNational SGI organizations operate autonomously and all affairs are conducted in the local language. Many national organizations are coordinated by groups such as a women's group, a men's group, and young women's and young men's groups. National organizations generally raise their own operational funds, although the SGI headquarters in Tokyo has awarded funding grants to smaller national organizations for projects such as land acquisition and the construction of new buildings. SGI-affiliated organizations outside Japan are forbidden to engage directly in politics.\n\nWhile the national organizations are run autonomously, the Tokyo headquarters of SGI disseminates doctrinal and teaching materials to all national organizations around the world. The Tokyo headquarters also serves as a meeting place for national leaders to come together and exchange information and ideas.\n\nThe election or nomination of the leaders is typically not decided by the SGI's general membership but by a board of directors. Leadership below national staff, however, has been liberalized; in the United States for instance, the nomination and approval of leaders includes both members and organizational leaders in the process. Dobbelaere notes the election of the presidents, as well as a process of \"nomination, review and approval that involves both peers and leaders\" in choosing other leaders.\n\nSGI members practice Nichiren Buddhism as interpreted and applied by the Soka Gakkai's first three presidents: Tsunesaburo Makiguchi, Josei Toda and Daisaku Ikeda. SGI members believe in karma and that the most expedient path to enlightenment is through the practice of Nichiren Buddhism. SGI members identify three basic elements for applying Nichiren Buddhism to daily life: faith, practice, and study.\n\nThe daily practice of SGI members centers on chanting the mantra \"Nam Myoho Renge Kyo\" which translates to \"Devotion to the Mystic Law of Cause and Effect through Sound\", or \"Glory to the Sutra of the Lotus of the Supreme Law\" (cf. detailed meaning of Nam-myoho-renge-kyo in Ongi kuden). Once in the morning and again at night, SGI members do \"gongyo\" (\"assiduous practice\"), during which members chant Nam-myoho-renge-kyo and recite selections from two chapters of the Lotus Sutra, \"Expedient Means\" (chapter 2) and \"The Life Span of the Thus Come One\" (chapter 16). \"Gongyo\" is typically performed in front of a \"Gohonzon\", a scroll considered to be the supreme object of devotion on which is written the \"daimoku\" (in other words, Nam-myoho-renge-kyo) and signs of buddhas and bodhisattvas who are prominent in the Lotus Sutra. The \"Gohonzon\" itself is housed in a \"butsudan,\" an altar that is opened during chanting of Nam-myoho-renge-kyo and \"gongyo\". Nam-myoho-renge-kyo is the name of this potential or Buddha nature within our life. To chant Nam-myoho-renge-kyo, then, is to call forth your Buddha nature. SGI President Daisaku Ikeda once wrote, “Daimoku (Nam-myoho-renge-kyo) is a universal language that is instantly understood by Buddhas.” \n\nSGI members also incorporate social interaction and engagement into their Buddhist practice. Monthly neighborhood discussion meetings are generally held at the homes of SGI members. In the United States, for example, a study characterizes these organizational practices as socially inclusive Buddhism.\n\nSince 1995, the SGI has formally officiated same-sex marriages. In 2008, the SGI-USA, which is headquartered in California, publicly opposed that state's Proposition 8 (which sought to prevent same-sex marriage), and the SGI coordinated with other progressive religious groups to support same-sex couples' right to legally marry.\n\nThe Soka Gakkai International is notable among Buddhist organizations for the racial and ethnic diversity of its members. It has been characterized as the world's largest and most ethnically diverse Buddhist group. Professor Susumu Shimazono suggested several reasons for this: the strongly felt needs of individuals in their daily lives, its solutions to discord in interpersonal relations, its practical teachings that offer concrete solutions for carrying on a stable social life, and its provision of a place where congenial company and a spirit of mutual support may be found. Peter Clarke wrote that the SGI appeals to non-Japanese in part because \"no one is obliged to abandon their native culture or nationality in order to fully participate in the spiritual and cultural life of the movement.\"\n\nIn 2015, Italian newspaper la Repubblica reported that half of all Buddhists in Italy are SGI members.\n\nAccording to Yoichi Kawada, director of the Tokyo-based Institute of Oriental Philosophy, the SGI defines itself as a \"movement for contributing to peace, culture and education\" based on its \"interpretation and practical application of the ideas in the Lotus Sutra.\" SGI engagement as a religious NGO affiliated with the United Nations in policy discussions on issues including human rights, sustainable development and peace building is similarly described, in the phrasing of its Charter, as contributing to peace, culture and education.\n\nSince 2007, the SGI has collaborated closely with the International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (ICAN) to develop educational programs and raise awareness on nuclear disarmament, particularly among young people. The SGI also partnered with ICAN to promote the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which was adopted at the United Nations in July 2017, and for which ICAN was awarded the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize. Beatrice Fihn, executive director of ICAN, stated in a July 2017 interview that the \"SGI has been one of our greatest partners in the fight to abolish nuclear weapons.\"\n\nTo further increase public awareness of the anti-nuclear movement, the SGI also created \"The People's Decade\" campaign, which since 2007 has developed a global grassroots network of people dedicated to abolishing nuclear weapons. In 2014, an SGI youth delegation met with the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs (UNODA) regarding coordination of the SGI's efforts and the UN efforts to increase grassroots movements for nuclear abolition.\n\nIn 2008, then-High Representative for Disarmament Affairs Sergio Duarte characterized SGI's work toward nuclear disarmament as linking human security with the fundamental goal of eliminating nuclear weapons.\n\nAccording to Pax Christi International, on March 28, 2017, a joint statement of Faith Communities Concerned about Nuclear Weapons, initiated by the SGI, was delivered by Pax Christi Philippines during the first UN negotiating conference for the treaty to prohibit nuclear weapons. More than 20 religious leaders affirmed through the joint statement their shared \"aspirations for peace and for a world where people live without fear,\" praising world leaders in attendance for \"the courage to begin these negotiations\" and calling on States not in attendance to join the June–July session of the conference.\n\nThe SGI also promotes environmental initiatives through educational activities such as exhibitions, lectures and conferences, and more direct activities such as tree planting projects and the SGI's Amazon Ecological Conservation Center, which is administered by SGI-Brazil. The center is engaged in reforestation, the creation of a regional seed bank, and experiments in sustainable agroforestry.\nOne scholar cites Daisaku Ikeda, SGI's president, describing such initiatives as a Buddhist-based impetus for direct public engagement in parallel with legal efforts to address environmental concerns.\n\nIn India, the Bharat Soka Gakkai (the SGI of India) debuted the traveling exhibit \"Seeds of Hope,\" a joint initiative of the SGI and Earth Charter International. At the exhibit's opening in Panaji, the state capital of Goa, regional planning head Edgar Ribeiro spoke of lagging efforts to implement environmental laws and stated that \"Only a people's movement can take sustainability forward.\" In Malaysia, Tunku Abdul Rahman University College President Datuk Dr Tan Chik Heok said that this exhibition helped \"to create the awareness of the power of a single individual in bringing about waves of positive change to the environment, as well as the society.\"\n\nIn November 2015, the SGI signed on to the Buddhist Climate Change Statement representing \"over a billion Buddhists worldwide\" in a call to action submitted to world leaders at the 21st session of UN climate change talks held in Paris]. The statement affirms that Buddhist spirituality compels environmental protection and expresses solidarity with Catholic and Muslim leaders who have taken a similar stance. Described as \"one of the most unified calls by a religion's leadership,\" the statement draws on the 2009 pan-Buddhist statement, \"The Time to Act is Now: A Buddhist Declaration on Climate Change,\" to which SGI-USA among others became a signatory in early-2015.\n\nThe SGI conducts humanitarian aid projects in disaster-stricken regions. After the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan, local Soka Gakkai facilities became refugee shelters and distribution centers for relief supplies. Efforts also included worldwide fundraising for the victims, youth groups, and spiritual support.\n\nIn 2015, SGI-USA was part of the organizing committee that convened a day-long conference in Washington, DC of 125 Buddhist leaders to discuss Buddhism and civic activism in the US. The conference identified climate change and the environment, education and peace and disarmament as popular priorities.\n\nNotable members of the Soka Gakkai International include:\n\n\n\nOfficial SGI websites\n\nOfficial national affiliate websites\n"}
{"id": "1202295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202295", "title": "Synanon", "text": "Synanon\n\nThe Synanon organization, initially a drug rehabilitation program, was founded by Charles E. \"Chuck\" Dederich, Sr., (1913–1997) in 1958 in Santa Monica, California. By the early 1960s, Synanon had also become an alternative community, attracting people with its emphasis on living a self-examined life, as aided by group truth-telling sessions that came to be known as the \"Synanon Game.\" Synanon ultimately became the Church of Synanon in the 1970s, and disbanded permanently in 1991 due to many criminal activities, including attempted murder of which members were convicted, and legal problems, including losing its tax free status retroactively with the Internal Revenue Service due to financial misdeeds, destruction of evidence and terrorism. It has been called one of the \"most dangerous and violent cults America had ever seen.\"\n\nCharles Dederich, a reformed alcoholic and a member of Alcoholics Anonymous (A.A.), was said to be an admired speaker at A.A. meetings. Those suffering from addictions to illegal drugs, besides alcohol, were considered to be significantly different from alcoholics, and therefore were not accepted into A.A. Dederich, after taking LSD, decided to create his own program to respond to their needs. He was said to have coined the phrase \"today is the first day of the rest of your life.\" After his small group, called \"Tender Loving Care,\" gained a significant following, Dederich incorporated the organization in to the Synanon Foundation in 1958. Synanon is a word of his own invention integrating togetherness (“syn”) with the unknown (“anon”).\n\nSynanon began as a two-year residential program, but Dederich soon concluded that its members could never graduate, because a full recovery was impossible. The program was based on testimony of fellow group members about their tribulations and urges of relapsing, and the journey to recovery. Synanon differed from Alcoholics Anonymous in that it aided both drug-users and drinkers.The Synanon organization also developed a business that sold promotional items. This became a successful enterprise that for a time generated roughly $10 million per year.\n\nIn 1959, Synanon moved from their small storefront to an armory on the beach. In the early 1960s Charles was able to utilize the media and his Hollywood associates to promote his organization. In 1967, Synanon purchased the \"Club Casa del Mar,\" a large beachside hotel in Santa Monica, and this was used as its headquarters and as a dormitory for those undergoing anti-drug treatment. Later on, Synanon acquired a large building that had been the home of the Athens Athletic Club, in Oakland, California, and then transformed it into a residential facility for Synanon's members. Outsiders were permitted to attend the \"Synanon Game\" there as well. Children were reared communally in the Synanon School, and juveniles were often ordered to enroll in Synanon by California's courts.\n\nProfessionals, even those without drug addictions, were invited to join Synanon. The New York psychiatrist Daniel Casriel M.D., founder of AREBA (today the oldest surviving private addiction treatment centre in the United States) and cofounder of Daytop Village (one of the world’s largest therapeutic communities) visited in 1962 and lived there in 1963 and wrote a book about his experiences. Control over members occurred through the \"Game.\" The \"Game\" could have been considered to be a therapeutic tool, likened to a form of group therapy; or else to a form of a \"social control\", in which members humiliated one another and encouraged the exposure of one another's innermost weaknesses, or maybe both of these. Beginning in the mid-1970s, women in Synanon were required to shave their heads, and married couples were made to break up and take new partners. Men were given forced vasectomies, and a few pregnant women were forced to have abortions.\n\nThe film director George Lucas needed a large group of people with shaved heads for the filming of his movie \"THX 1138\", and so he hired some of his extras from Synanon. Robert Altman hired members of Synanon to be extras for the gambling scenes in his movie \"California Split\".\n\nEntrance into the Synanon community required a strong initial commitment. Newcomers were first interviewed by Synanon leadership to gain entrance into the community. Upon their arrival, those newcomers are forced to quit using drugs cold turkey, going through withdrawal within the first few days in the community. Furthermore, for their first ninety days in the community, members were expected to cease contact with outside friends and family.\n\nDuring its first decade, Synanon members entered into a 1-2 year program in three stages aimed at preparing members to reenter greater society. During the first stage, members did community and housekeeping labor. During the second stage, members worked outside of the community but still resided within the community. Finally, during the third stage, members both worked and lived outside of the community, but still attended regular meetings. However, after Synanon's transition into an alternate society in 1968, this program changed to a \"lifetime rehabilitation\" program, with the premise that drug addicts would never be fully healed enough to return to society.\n\nOne of the most distinguishing practices of the Synanon community was a therapeutic practice commonly referred to as \"The Game.\" The game was a session during which one member would talk about themselves and then endure violent criticism by their peers. During this practice, members were encouraged to be critical of everything, using critical and profane language. However, despite the very aggressive nature of The Game, outside of The Game, members were required to act civilly to each other. While in The Game, members criticized each other, but left as friends and supportive community members. The Game served not only as Synanon's most prominent form of therapy and personal change, but also worked as a way for leaders to collect the opinions of community members. Because there was no hierarchy in The Game, members could freely criticize Synanon's highest leadership, who would then take member concerns into consideration when deciding policy.\n\nThe game turned into a 72-hour version and was admitted by Dederich to be brainwashing. The game was eventually used to pressure people to Dederich's will, to abort pregnancies, have vasectomies and commit violence.\n\nChuck Dederich eventually changed his way of thinking about Synanon, and morphed it partially towards a human progressive group. Synanon moved to create schooling for members, and Dederich wanted the members to mentally change for the better of society on the outside. The school was headed by Al Bauman, which believed in innovative philosophy, and aimed to teach children in the same manner to think differently. The school attracted lawyers, screenwriters, business executives, all wanting to educate their children in a progressive environment.\n\nBeginning in 1964, the legal authorities began to investigate Synanon's practices. The concept of \"lifetime rehabilitation\" did not agree with therapeutic norms, and it was alleged that the Synanon group was running an unauthorized medical clinic. Synanon expanded an old Trans-Pacific Marconi RCA radio station in Tomales Bay now Marconi Conference Center State Historical Park. Furthermore, it was alleged that on remote properties in California such as at Marshall in Marin County and in Badger, Tulare County, Synanon had erected buildings without the legally-required permits, had created a trash dump, and built an airstrip. Taxation issues also arose. In response to these accusations, Dederich declared that Synanon was a tax exempt religious organization, the \"Church of Synanon.\"\n\nLegal problems continued, despite this change. Children who had been assigned to Synanon began running away, and an \"underground railroad\" had been created in the area that sought to help them return to their parents. Beatings of Synanon's opponents and its ex-members, \"splittees\", occurred across California. Beatings occurred in Synanon basements. A state Grand Jury in Marin County issued a scathing report in 1978 that attacked Synanon for the very strong evidence of its child abuse, and also for the monetary profits that flowed to Dederich. The Grand Jury report also rebuked the governmental authorities involved for their lack of oversight, although it stopped short of directly interceding in the Synanon situation.\n\nThough many San Francisco area newspapers and broadcasters covered the Synanon case, they were largely silenced by legal action from Synanon's lawyers, who made claims of libel. These lawsuits ultimately turned out to be a large part of Synanon's undoing, by giving journalists access to Synanon's own internal documents.\n\nSynanon has been credited as being involved with several criminal activities, such as the disappearance of Rose Lena Cole around late-1972 or early-1973. Cole had received a court order to enroll in Synanon before she disappeared. She has not been seen or heard from since. Initially Synanon did not support violence, however Dederich later changed the rules to only use violence when needed. Much of the violence by Synanon had been carried out by a group within Synanon called the \"Imperial Marines.\" Over 80 violent acts were committed including mass beatings that hospitalized teenagers and ranchers who were beaten in front of their families. People who left the organization were at risk of physical violence for being a \"splittee\" and one ex-member, Phil Ritter, was beaten so severely that his skull was fractured and he fell into a coma with a near-fatal case of bacterial meningitis.\n\nDuring the summer of 1978, the \"NBC Nightly News\" produced a news segment on the controversies surrounding Synanon. Following this broadcast, several executives of the NBC network and its corporate chairman allegedly received hundreds of threats from Synanon members and supporters. However, NBC continued with a series of reports on the Synanon situation on the \"NBC Nightly News\". The \"Point Reyes Light\", a small-circulation weekly newspaper in Marin County, would later receive the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for their covering Synanon at a time when other news agencies avoided reporting. Several weeks after NBC began receiving threats, on October 10, 1978, two Synanon members placed a de-rattled rattlesnake in the mailbox of attorney Paul Morantz of Pacific Palisades, California. Morantz had successfully brought suit on behalf of people who were being held against their will by Synanon. The snake bit him, and he was hospitalized for six days. This incident, along with the press coverage, prompted an investigation by the law and government into Synanon.\n\nSix weeks later, the Los Angeles Police Department performed a search of the ranch in Badger that found a recorded speech by Dederich in which he said, \"We're not going to mess with the old-time, turn-the-other-cheek religious postures... Our religious posture is: Don't mess with us. You can get killed dead, literally dead... These are real threats,\" he snarled. \"They are draining life's blood from us, and expecting us to play by their silly rules. We will make the rules. I see nothing frightening about it... I am quite willing to break some lawyer's legs, and next break his wife's legs, and threaten to cut their child's arm off. That is the end of that lawyer. That is a very satisfactory, humane way of transmitting information. I really do want an ear in a glass of alcohol on my desk.\" During the investigations searchers also came across multiple lawsuits and arrests against Synanon members.\n\nDederich was arrested while drunk on December 2, 1978. The two other Synanon residents, one of whom was Lance Kenton, the son of the musician Stan Kenton, pleaded \"no contest\" to charges of assault, and also conspiracy to commit murder. While his associates went to jail, Dederich got probation because doctors said due to illness he would die in jail. As part of probation he could not take part in running Synanon.\n\nSynanon struggled to survive without its leader, and also with a severely tarnished reputation. The Internal Revenue Service revoked the organization's tax-exempt status and ordered them to pay $17 million in back taxes, which bankrupted Synanon, which formally dissolved in 1991.\n\nMel Wasserman, influenced by his Synanon experience, founded CEDU Education. CEDU's schools used the confrontation model of Synanon. The CEDU model was widely influential on the development of parent-choice, private-pay residential programs. People originally inspired by their CEDU experience developed or strongly influenced a significant number of the schools in the therapeutic boarding school industry.\n\nFather William B. O’Brien, the founder of New York's Daytop Village, included Synanon's group encounters and confrontational approach in his research into addiction treatment methods.\n\nAuthor, journalist and activist Maia Szalavitz claims to chart the influence of Synanon in other programs including Phoenix House, Straight, Incorporated and Boot Camps in addition to those mentioned above.\n\nDespite its controversies and its downfall, the Synanon program is credited with curing some people of their addictions. For example, Synanon was credited with curing, at least temporarily, the heroin-addicted jazz musicians Frank Rehak, Arnold Ross, Joe Pass, and Art Pepper (Pepper discussed his Synanon experiences at length in his autobiography \"Straight Life\"), and the actor Matthew \"Stymie\" Beard. In 1962, Pass formed a band composed of Synanon patients who recorded an album titled \"Sounds of Synanon\". The Synanon organization was praised by the motivational speaker Florrie Fisher in her speeches to high school students, and she credited Synanon with curing her of her heroin addiction. Synanon also inspired the creation of successful programs such as the Delancey Street Foundation, co-founded by John Maher, a former Synanon member. Many former members still value what they see as the positive aspects of Synanon, primarily its strong sense of community, and remain in close contact, in person or through on-line chat groups, and have gone into business together.\n\nA branch of Synanon that was founded in Germany in 1971 is still in operation.\n\nThe 1965 Columbia Pictures movie \"Synanon\", directed by Richard Quine, was set at (and filmed in) Synanon; it starred Edmond O'Brien as Chuck Dederich, as well as Chuck Connors, Stella Stevens, Richard Conte, and Eartha Kitt.\n\nThe 1968 season 1, episode 22 of Mannix features Synanon.\n\nSynanon is referred to in Bob Dylan's song \"Lenny Bruce\", from his album \"Shot of Love\" (Bruce \"never made it to Synanon.\"). It is also referred to in the song \"Opening Doors\" from Stephen Sondheim's musical \"Merrily We Roll Along\", which mentions it as a hypothetical song title in a satirical revue of the 1960s.\n\nThe 1993 science fiction TV series \"Babylon 5\" included a version of the Synanon Game in the episodes \"Signs and Portents\" and \"Comes the Inquisitor.\"\n\nThe \"New-Path\" drug treatment centers in science fiction writer Philip K. Dick's 1977 novel \"A Scanner Darkly\" bear numerous similarities to Synanon. Dick's 1981 novel \"VALIS\" begins with the initial romantic interest committing suicide off of the tenth floor of the Synanon building in Oakland, California.\n\nIn Charles Alverson's 1977 novel \"Not Sleeping, Just Dead\", private eye Joe Goodey attempts to solve a suspected murder at The Institute, an organization that bears more than a passing resemblance to Synanon. (Alverson had lived in Synanon for six months in 1967 as a straight, or non-addicted, resident.)\n\nSynanon is mentioned in Joan Didion's 1979 essay \"The White Album\".\n\nMany of the extras in the 1971 George Lucas film \"THX 1138\" were brought in from the San Francisco-area Synanon chapters. Lucas explains in the DVD commentary, \"we were attracted to them simply because everyone who joined this program had to shave their head and we needed hundreds of people with shaved heads for some of the larger scenes in the film.\" Synanon is thus thanked in the end credits of the movie.\n\nDeborah Swisher, a former Synanon member, recounts her experiences growing up in several Synanon communes in her one-woman show \"Hundreds of Sisters and One Big Brother\"\n\n\nEscape: My Life Long War against Cults (2012) by Paul Morantx and Hal Lancaster\nFrom Miracle to Madness by Paul Morantz\n\n"}
{"id": "1458853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1458853", "title": "Taurobolium", "text": "Taurobolium\n\nIn the Roman Empire of the second to fourth centuries, taurobolium referred to practices involving the sacrifice of a bull, which after mid-second century became connected with the worship of the Great Mother of the Gods; though not previously limited to her cult, after AD 159 all private \"taurobolia\" inscriptions mention the \"Magna Mater\". \n\nOriginating in Asia Minor, its earliest attested performance in Italy occurred in AD 134, at Puteoli, in honor of \"Venus Caelestis\", documented by an inscription.\n\nThe earliest inscriptions, of the second century in Asia Minor, point to a bull chase in which the animal was overcome, linked with a \"panegyris\" in honour of a deity or deities, but not an essentially religious ceremony, though a bull was sacrificed and its flesh distributed. The addition of the \"taurobolium\" and the institution of an \"archigallus\" were innovations in the cult of the Magna Mater made by Antoninus Pius on the occasion of his \"vicennalia\", the twentieth year of his reign, in 158 and 159. The first dated reference to Magna Mater in a \"taurobolium\" inscription dates from 160. The \"vires\", or testicles of the bull, were removed from Rome and dedicated at a \"taurobolium\" altar at Lugdunum, 27 November 160. Jeremy Rutter makes the suggestion that the bull's testicles substituted for the self-castration of devotees of Cybele, abhorrent to the Roman \"ethos\".\n\nPublic \"taurobolia\", enlisting the benevolence of the Magna Mater on behalf of the emperor, became common in Italy, as well as in Gaul, Hispania and Africa. The last public \"taurobolium\" for which there is an inscription was carried out for Diocletian and Maximian at Mactar in Numidia at the close of the third century.\n\nThe best-known and most vivid description, though of the quite different taurobolium as it was revived in aristocratic pagan circles, is the notorious one that has coloured early scholarship, which was provided in an anti-pagan poem by the late 4th-century Christian Prudentius in \"\": the priest of the Great Mother, clad in a silk toga worn in the Gabinian cincture, with golden crown and fillets on his head, takes his place in a trench covered by a platform of planks pierced with fine holes, on which a bull, magnificent with flowers and gold, is slain. The blood rains through the platform onto the priest below, who receives it on his face, and even on his tongue and palate, and after the baptism presents himself before his fellow-worshippers purified and regenerated, and receives their salutations and reverence. Prudentius does not explicitly mention the \"taurobolium\", but the ceremony, in its new form, is unmistakable from other contemporaneous sources: \"At Novaesium on the Rhine in Germania Inferior, a blood pit was found in what was probably a Metroon\", Jeremy Rutter observes.\n\nRecent scholarship has called into question the reliability of Prudentius' description. It is a late account by a Christian who was hostile to paganism, and may have distorted the rite for effect. Earlier inscriptions that mention the rite suggest a less gory and elaborate sacrificial rite. Therefore, Prudentius' description may be based on a late evolution of the \"taurobolium\".\n\nThe \"taurobolium\" in the second and third centuries was usually performed as a measure for the welfare \"(salus)\" of the emperor, Empire, or community; H. Oppermann denies early reports that its date was frequently 24 March, the \"Dies Sanguinis\" (\"Day of Blood\") of the annual festival of the Great Mother Cybele and Attis; Oppermann reports that there were no \"taurobolia\" in late March. In the late third and the fourth centuries its usual motive was the purification or regeneration of an individual, who was spoken of as \"renatus in aeternum\", \"reborn for eternity\", in consequence of the ceremony. While its efficacy was not eternal, its effect was considered to endure for twenty years, as if the magic coating of the blood wore off after that time, the initiate having taken his vows for \"the circle of twenty years\" (\"bis deni orbis\"). It was also performed as the fulfilment of a vow \"(votum)\", or by command of the goddess herself, and the privilege was not limited by sex or class. In its fourth-century revival in high pagan circles, Rutter has observed, \"We might even justifiably say that the taurobolium, rather than a rite effectual in itself was a symbol of paganism. It was a rite apparently forbidden by the Christian emperors and thus became a hallmark of the pagan nobility in their final struggle against Christianity and the Christian emperors.\" The place of its performance at Rome was near the site of St Peter's, in the excavations of which several altars and inscriptions commemorative of \"taurobolia\" were discovered.\n\nA criobolium, substituting a ram for the bull, was also practiced, sometimes together with the \"taurobolium;\".\n\n\"Encyclopædia Britannica\" 1911, under the influence of Sir James George Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\", suggested \"The taurobolium was probably a sacred drama symbolizing the relations of the Mother and Attis (q.v.). The descent of the priest into the sacrificial foss symbolized the death of Attis, the withering of the vegetation of Mother Earth; his bath of blood and emergence the restoration of Attis, the rebirth of vegetation. The ceremony may be the spiritualized descent of the primitive oriental practice of drinking or being baptized in the blood of an animal, based upon a belief that the strength of brute creation could be acquired by consumption of its substance or contact with its blood. In spite of the phrase renatus in aeternum, there is no reason to suppose that the ceremony was in any way borrowed from Christianity.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4630236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4630236", "title": "Tepe Sialk", "text": "Tepe Sialk\n\nTepe Sialk () is a large ancient archeological site (a \"tepe\", \"hill\" or \"mound\") in a suburb of the city of Kashan, Isfahan Province, in central Iran, close to Fin Garden. The culture that inhabited this area has been linked to the Zayandeh River Culture.\n\nThe Sialk ziggurat was built around the 3000 BC. A joint study between Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization, the Louvre, and the Institut Francais de Recherche en Iran also verifies the oldest settlements in Sialk to date back from 6000-5500 BC.\n\nSialk, and the entire area around it, is thought to have originated as a result of the pristine large water sources nearby that still run today. The Cheshmeh ye Soleiman (\"Solomon's Spring\") has been bringing water to this area from nearby mountains for thousands of years. The Fin garden, built in its present form in the 17th century, is a popular tourist attraction. It is here that the kings of the Safavid dynasty would spend their vacations away from their capital cities. It is also here that Piruz Nahavandi (Abu-Lu'lu'ah), the Persian assassin of Caliph Umar, is buried. All these remains are located in the same location where Sialk is.\n\nTepe Sialk was excavated for three seasons (1933, 1934, and 1937) by a team headed by Roman Ghirshman and his wife Tania Ghirshman.\nStudies related to the site were conducted by D.E. McCown, Y. Majidzadeh, and P. Amieh. \nExcavation was resumed for several seasons between 1999 \nand 2004 by a team from the University of Pennsylvania and Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization led by Sadegh Malek Shahmirzadi called the Sialk Reconsideration Project. Since 2008 an Iranian team led by Hassan Fazeli Nashli and supported by Robin Coningham of the University of Durham have worked at the northern mound finding 6 Late Neolithic burials. \n\nArtifacts from the original dig ended up mostly at the Louvre, while some can be found at the British Museum, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and the National Museum of Iran and in the hands of private collectors.\n\nThese artifacts consisted of some very fine painted potteries.\n\nThe northern mound (tell) is the oldest; the occupation dates back to the end of the seventh millennium BC. The mound is composed of two levels: Sialk I (the oldest), and Sialk II.\n\nSialk I level architecture is pretty rudimentary. Tombs containing pottery have been uncovered. The ceramic is initially rather rough, then becomes of better quality with the time.\n\n\"Zagheh archaic painted ware\" (ca. 6000-5500 BC) is found in Tepe Sialk I, sub-levels 1-2. This is the early painted ware, that was first excavated at Tepe Zagheh in the Qazvin plain.\n\nIn sub-periods 3, 4 and 5, the pottery has a clear surface with painted decoration. Stone or bone tools are still used.\n\nThe Sialk II level sees the first appearance of metallurgy. The archaeological material found in the buildings of this period testifies to increasing links with the outside world.\n\nThe south tell includes the Sialk III and IV levels. The first, divided into seven sub-periods, corresponds to the fifth millennium and the beginning of the fourth (c. 4000 BC). This period is in continuity with the previous one, and sees the complexity of architecture (molded bricks, use of stone) and crafts, especially metallurgical.\n\nEvidence demonstrates that Tepe Sialk was an important metal production center in central Iran during the Sialk III and Sialk IV periods. A significant amount of metallurgical remains were found during the excavations in the 1990s and later. This includes large amounts of slag pieces, litharge cakes, and crucibles and moulds.\n\nSialk IV level begins in the second half of the fourth millennium, and ends with the abandonment of the site at the beginning of the third millennium. For the oldest sub-periods of the Sialk IV, there are links with the Mesopotamian civilizations of Uruk and Jemdet Nasr.\nLater on, the material is similar to that of Susa III (Proto-Elamite level), so this is where the Proto-Elamite horizon at Sialk is located, as is also evidenced by the discovery here of some Proto-Elamite clay tablets.\n\nThe ruins of what would be the oldest Ziggurat in the world are found at this same Sialk IV level.\n\nAfter an abandonment of more than a millennium, the Sialk site is reoccupied in the second half of the second millennium. This last phase of occupation of the site is divided into two periods: Sialk V and Sialk VI. The archaeological material of these two levels has been mostly found in the two necropolises, called necropolis A and necropolis B.\n\nThe first represents the Sialk V level. Here are found weapons and other objects in bronze, as well as jewelry, and some iron items. The ceramic is gray-black, or red, sometimes with some decorations that consist of geometric patterns, and can be compared to items coming from the sites in Gorgan valley (the later levels of Tureng Tepe, and Tepe Hissar).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1230412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230412", "title": "The Varieties of Religious Experience", "text": "The Varieties of Religious Experience\n\nThe Varieties of Religious Experience: A Study in Human Nature is a book by Harvard University psychologist and philosopher William James. It comprises his edited Gifford Lectures on natural theology, which were delivered at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland in 1901 and 1902. The lectures concerned the nature of religion and the neglect of science in the academic study of religion.\n\nSoon after its publication, \"Varieties\" entered the Western canon of psychology and philosophy and has remained in print for over a century.\n\nJames later developed his philosophy of pragmatism. There are many overlapping ideas in \"Varieties\" and his 1907 book, \"Pragmatism\".\n\nJames was most interested in direct religious experiences. Theology and the organizational aspects of religion were of secondary interest. He believed that religious experiences were simply human experiences: \"Religious happiness is happiness. Religious trance is trance.\"\n\nHe believed that religious experiences can have \"morbid origins\" in brain pathology and can be irrational but nevertheless are largely positive. Unlike the bad ideas that people have under the influence of a high fever, after a religious experience the ideas and insights usually remain and are often valued for the rest of the person's life.\n\nUnder James’ pragmatism, the effectiveness of religious experiences proves their truth, whether they stem from religious practices or from drugs: \"Nitrous oxide ... stimulate[s] the mystical consciousness in an extraordinary degree.\"\n\nJames had relatively little interest in the legitimacy or illegitimacy of religious experiences. Further, despite James' examples being almost exclusively drawn from Christianity, he did not mean to limit his ideas to any single religion. Religious experiences are something that people sometimes have under certain conditions. In James' description, these conditions are likely to be psychological or pharmaceutical rather than cultural.\n\nJames believed that the origins of a religion shed little light upon its value. There is a distinction between an existential judgment (a judgment on \"constitution, origin, and history\") and a proposition of value (a judgment on \"importance, meaning, or significance\").\n\nFor example, if the founder of the Quaker religion, George Fox, had been a hereditary degenerate, the Quaker religion could yet be \"a religion of veracity rooted in spiritual inwardness, and a return to something more like the original gospel truth than men had ever known in England.\"\n\nFurthermore, the potentially dubious psychological origins of religious beliefs apply just as well to non-religious beliefs:\n\nJames criticized scientists for ignoring unseen aspects of the universe. Science studies some of reality, but not all of it:\n\nJames saw \"healthy mindedness\" as America’s main contribution to religion. This is the religious experience of optimism and positive thinking which James sees running from the transcendentalists Emerson and Whitman to Mary Baker Eddy's Christian Science. At the extreme, the \"healthy minded\" see sickness and evil as an illusion. James considered belief in the \"mind cure\" to be reasonable when compared to medicine as practiced at the beginning of the twentieth century.\n\nThe \"sick souls\" (\"morbid-mindedness\" / the \"twice born\") are merely those who hit bottom before their religious experience; those whose redemption gives relief from the pains they suffered beforehand. By contrast, the \"healthy minded\" deny the need for such preparatory pain or suffering. James believes that \"morbid-mindedness ranges over the wider scale of experience\" and that while healthy-mindedness is a surprisingly effective \"religious solution\",\n\nJames sees the two types as being a mere matter of temperament: the healthy minded having a \"constitutional incapacity for prolonged suffering\"; the morbid minded being those prone to \"religious melancholia\".\n\nFor James, a saintly character is one where \"spiritual emotions are the habitual centre of the personal energy.\" <br>\nJames states that saintliness includes:\n\nFor James the practical consequences of saintliness are asceticism (pleasure in sacrifice), strength of soul (a \"blissful equanimity\" free from anxieties), purity (a withdrawal from the material world), and charity (tenderness to those most would naturally disdain).\n\nJames identified two main features to a mystical experience:\n\nHe also identified two subsidiary features that are often, but not always, found with mystical experiences:\n\nThe August 1902 \"New York Times\" review of the first edition ends with the following:\n\nA July 1963 \"Time\" magazine review of an expanded edition published that year ends with quotes about the book from Peirce and Santayana:\n\n\nIn 2012 the Russian-American composer Gene Pritsker released his chamber opera \"William James's Varieties of Religious Experience\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51470668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51470668", "title": "Traditionalism in the Catholic Church", "text": "Traditionalism in the Catholic Church\n\nTraditionalism in the context of 19th-century Catholicism refers to a theory which held that all metaphysical, moral, and religious knowledge derives from God's revelation to man and is handed down in an unbroken chain of tradition. It denied that human reason by itself has the power to attain to any truths in these domains of knowledge. It arose, mainly in Belgium and France, as a reaction to 18th-century rationalism and can be considered an extreme form of anti-rationalism. Its chief proponents were Joseph de Maistre (1753-1821), L. G. A. de Bonald (1754–1840) and F. R. de Lamennais (1782-1854). Their doctrines were advocated in a modified form by L. E. M. Bautain (1796–1867), Augustin Bonnetty (1798–1879), Casimir Ubaghs (1800-1875) and the philosophers of the Louvain school. The fundamental distrust of human reason underlying traditionalism was eventually condemned in a number of papal decrees and finally ruled out by the Dogmatic Constitution on the Catholic Faith of the First Vatican Council in 1870.\n\n"}
{"id": "22308235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22308235", "title": "True Singapore Ghost Stories", "text": "True Singapore Ghost Stories\n\nThe Almost Complete Collection of True Singapore Ghost Stories (also \"True Singapore Ghost Stories\" or \"TSGS\") is one of the bestselling book series in Singapore. With over 1.5 million copies sold, the series has become a household name since its inception in 1989. Russell Lee, a Singaporean author, compiles reports, stories and interviews about the supernatural. Light and entertaining, each book, which comprises about 30 stories, appeals to both children and mature readers.\n\nMost of the stories take place in Asia but some take place in other parts of the world. Lee also includes articles about the paranormal, featuring detailed investigations into the occult, witchcraft, vampires and other similar topics. Lee stresses that the articles are for reading pleasure, not research.\n\nSo far, 26 books have been released. Each book has a specific theme and an artwork on the front cover that characterises the book. \n\nRussell Lee's latest book is Book 25. Its lead story, The Cat Man, is a tale of how cats inexplicably rally for their hero. Other stories include The Mad Monk, Golden Oldies, and \"Nama Saya Iblis\". Russell Lee also documents the religious rituals used to \"cleanse\" homes. \n\nThe books are sold in Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia and some other neighbouring countries.\n\nRussell Lee is the author of the series. He has been writing about the supernatural since 1989, for about 28 years. Some of his claims are controversial but he writes as one having a great deal of authority.\n\n!S/N\n! Book\n! Year Published\n</table>\n\nA 13-part TV series, \"True Singapore Ghost Stories\", has been produced by I-Media Entertainment in Singapore.\n\nIn 2015, Russell Lee and Universal Studios Singapore collaborated in the production of Halloween Horror Nights at Resorts World Sentosa. Stories and characters from the book series were used in the month-long event. It was like experiencing \"True Singapore Ghost Stories\" with a Hollywood twist.\n\nAccording to the \"Singapore Book of Records\", the \"True Singapore Ghost Stories\" is the best-selling local series by a team of writers, and the all-time best-selling local book series, in Singapore.\n\"Russell Lee’s True Singapore Ghost Stories has been a mainstay on Singapore bestseller lists since they hit shelves in 1989.\" - THE STRAITS TIMES (2017)\n\n\"Russell Lee is Singapore’s most popular writer by a long stretch. His prose is clear and his titles snappy.\" - SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST\n\n\"The Almost Complete Collection Of True Singapore Ghost Stories series continues to capture the imagination of Singaporeans.\" - THE STRAITS TIMES\n\n\"The material is just so incredibly rich... You just want to read on.\" - THE STRAITS TIMES\n\n\"True Singapore Ghost Stories Book 1 is Singapore’s all-time number one bestseller.\" - THE STAR\n\n\"Angsana’s Russell Lee is Singapore’s biggest-selling author by a long, long way!\" - THE BRITISH BROADCASTING CORPORATION\n\n\"The results of a Forbes survey commissioned by the National Library Board show that as many as four out of ten Singaporeans prefer to read horror-ghost stories... the most popular fiction is Russell Lee’s True Singapore Ghost Stories (Angsana Books).\" - THE STRAITS TIMES \n\n\"The True Singapore Ghost Stories by Russell Lee is to Singapore what manga is to Japan.\" - THE OFFICIAL SINGAPORE GUIDE & MAP\n\n\"Angsana’s Russell Lee and his team of ghost writers are highly popular, judging by the number of times that the volumes in the True Singapore Ghost Stories series — published by Flame Of The Forest — have hit the bestseller lists of major bookshops in town since the series was launched in 1989.\" - THE STRAITS TIMES\n\n\"Morality and the positive have a firm place in Angsana’s True Singapore Ghost Stories. Good triumphs over evil, always.\" - THE NEW STRAITS TIMES\n\n\"The True Singapore Ghost Stories series has put local fiction at the top spot and opened up possibilities for other home-grown stories and authors. It’s publisher, Flame Of The Forest Publishing, is a Singaporean English language press that has built its name by publishing Singapore authors. Its books, such as the True Singapore Ghost Stories, speak to the Singapore psyche.\" - CHANNEL NEWSASIA\n\n"}
{"id": "32019059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32019059", "title": "Urshanabi", "text": "Urshanabi\n\nUrshanabi was the ferryman of the Hubur, river of the dead in Mesopotamian mythology. His equivalent in Greek Mythology was Charon.\n\nHe is first mentioned in the myth of Enlil and Ninlil, where he is called SI.LU.IGI and described as a man. In the Epic of Gilgamesh, Urshanabi is a companion of Gilgamesh after Enkidu dies. They meet when Urshanabi is involved in the curious occupation of collecting an unintelligible type of \"\"urnu\"-snakes\" in the forest. Urshanabi's ferry is at first powered by unintelligible \"stone things\", that are destroyed by Gilgamesh, who proceeds to power the boat with 120 stakes he has to make to replace the \"stone-things\". He is banished from Kur by the immortal survivor of the flood Utnapishtim for no discernible reason, possibly for conveying Gilgamesh across the Hubur. They both ferry back to Uruk where they behold its splendour. His later Assyrian incarnation is called Hamar-tabal, who is described as a horrible monster.\n\n"}
{"id": "37202220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37202220", "title": "Vasim Mammadaliyev", "text": "Vasim Mammadaliyev\n\nVasim Mammadaliyev () – is an Azerbaijani scientist of oriental studies, dean of theology faculty at Baku State University, chairman of a cathedra of Arabic philology and full member of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences.\n\nVasim Mammadaliyev was born on August 27, 1942 in Baku, into an intelligent family.\n\nHe got his primary education in Baku and then entered oriental studies faculty of Azerbaijan State University, on a specialty of Arabic philology.\n\nIn 1964-1967, he was post-graduate student of Azerbaijan State University. In 1968, at the age of 26, he defended Doctor’s dissertation on the theme of “Comparative and typological analysis of tenses of the verb in modern Arabic-Azerbaijani languages and Iraqi dialect” at Tbilisi State University and he became the youngest Doctor of Arabic sciences in the USSR after defending Doctor’s dissertation on the theme of “Tense, person and mood in modern Arabic language”, in 1974, at the age of 32.\n\nIn 1978, he became the Professor of ANAS. Vasim Mammadaliyev is member of Iraqi Academy of Sciences (1989), Academy of Islamic Right under the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (1994), Syrian Academy of Quran Sciences and Arabic philology (1995) and Academy of Arabic Language of Egypt (2003).\n\nIn 1992, he acquired a title of Honored Science Worker of Azerbaijan. In 2002, he was conferred Sheref Order. In 2003, he acquired a title of Honored Science Worker of Dagestan. In 2007, he was chosen academician of Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences.\n\nMammadaliyev is the author of more than 600 articles and 20 books. His works were published in more than 15 countries. He has scientific collaboration with such countries as Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Egypt, Libya, Georgia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Syria, the UAE, Kuwait and others. He translated the Quran into Azerbaijani language together with academician Ziya Bunyadov during the Soviet period. The translation which was initially published in 1991, later was republished 10 times.\n\nVasim Mammadaliyev is chairman of Azerbaijani-Iraqi friendship Union and the Scientific-Religious Council of the Caucasus Muslims Clerical Office since 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1114292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1114292", "title": "Vaticinium ex eventu", "text": "Vaticinium ex eventu\n\nVāticinium ex ēventū (, \"prophecy from the event\") is a technical theological or historiographical term referring to a prophecy written after the author already had information about the events being \"foretold\". The text is written so as to appear that the prophecy had taken place before the event, when in fact it was written after the events supposedly predicted. \"Vaticinium ex eventu\" is a form of hindsight bias. The concept is similar but distinct from postdiction, where prophecies that were genuinely written or spoken before the event are reinterpreted after the event to fit the facts as they occurred.\n\nThe Babylonian \"Marduk Prophecy\", a text describing the travels of the Marduk idol from Babylon, \"prophesies\" of the statue’s seizure during the sack of the city by Mursilis I in 1531 BC, Assyria, when Tukulti-Ninurta I overthrew Kashtiliash IV in 1225 BC and took the idol to Assur, and Elam, when Kudur-nahhunte ransacked the city and pilfered the statue around 1160 BC. A copy was found in the House of the Exorcist at Assur, whose contents date from 713–612 BC and is closely related thematically to another \"vaticinium ex eventu\" text called the Shulgi prophecy, which probably followed it in a sequence of tablets. Both compositions present a favorable view of Assyria.\n\nAs we see in Daniel 7:2–11:39, especially Daniel 11, the Book of Daniel utilizes \"vaticinium ex eventu\", by its seeming foreknowledge of events from Alexander's conquest up to the persecution of Antiochus IV in the summer of 164 BCE. However, Daniel knows neither about the re-dedication of the Temple (1 Maccabees 4:52–54) nor about Antiochus's death, both of which happened late in November and December of 164 BCE. Therefore, Daniel 11:40–12:3 is no longer vaticina ex eventu but genuine predictive prophecy. Modern scholarship considers the stories of the first half legendary in origin, and the visions of the second the product of anonymous authors in the Maccabean period (2nd century BCE). Its inclusion in Ketuvim (Writings) rather than Nevi'im (Prophets) was likely because it appeared after the canon for those books had closed, and the dominant view among Jews and scholars is that Daniel is not in any case a prophetic book but an apocalypse. However, in the Christian canon Daniel is listed under the Major Prophets.\n\nSome scholars regard statements attributed to Jesus in the Gospels that foretell the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple as examples of \"vaticinia ex eventu\", these scholars believe that the Gospels were all written after the siege of Jerusalem in AD 70, in which the temple was destroyed. However some Christian scholars reject this notion as the fulfillment of the acclaimed prophecy; the destruction of the temple is not recorded in the gospels or in the other letters and date the new testament scriptures before AD 70.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43850108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43850108", "title": "Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion", "text": "Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion\n\nThe book Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion (2014) by Sam Harris discusses a wide range of topics including secular spirituality (essentially within the context of spiritual naturalism), the illusion of the self, psychedelics, and meditation. He attempts to show that a certain form of spirituality is integral to understanding the nature of the mind. In late September 2014, the book reached #5 on the \"New York Times\" Non-Fiction Best Sellers list. Harris' podcast subsequently adopted the title \"Waking Up\".\n\nHarris rejects the dichotomy between religious spirituality on the one hand and scientific rationality on the other, and seeks to define a middle path that preserves spirituality and science but does not involve religion. He writes that spirituality should be understood in light of scientific disciplines like neuroscience and psychology. Science, he contends, can show how to maximize human well-being but may fail to answer certain questions about the nature of being, answers to some of which he says are discoverable directly through our experience. His conception of spirituality does not involve a belief in God.\n\nHarris' treatment of the nature of the mind draws on psychology, split-brain scientific literature, and philosophy of mind. He explores various positions on the mind-body problem but states that the solution may lie beyond the capabilities of human reason.\n\nHarris writes that the purpose of spirituality (as he defines it – he says the term's uses are diverse and sometimes indefensible) is to become aware that our sense of self is illusory, and says that this realization brings both happiness and insight into the nature of consciousness. He says spiritual discipline allows us to repeatedly recognize in our day-to-day lives that there is no self. Instead, there is an apprehension of \"pure consciousness,\" a profoundly peaceful state independent of any sense experience. He argues this process of realization is based on experience and is not contingent on faith.\n\nHarris provides brief guidance on how to meditate, and directs readers to his website for more in-depth instructions. He has studied under several Eastern meditation teachers, and gives advice on how to identify a good spiritual teacher. He describes his experience with Dzogchen, a Tibetan Buddhist practice, and recommends it to his readers.\n\nAlthough Harris assigns great value to religious experiences, he argues that facts about the cosmos and particular religious dogmas cannot reasonably be inferred from these experiences. In this vein, he describes some of his own deep spiritual experiences, but does not interpret them as evidence, for instance, of Christian, Hindu, or Buddhist metaphysics, as he says adherents of those religions likely would. He defends a segment of English spiritual author Douglas Harding's book \"On Having No Head\" against the sharp criticisms of neuroscientist Douglas Hofstadter. By contrast, he criticizes Eben Alexander's Christian interpretation of a near-death experience in \"Proof of Heaven\" at length as filled with unwarranted assumptions.\n\n\"Waking Up\" has been praised by literary critics. Frank Bruni of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"Harris's book [...] caught my eye because it's so entirely of this moment, so keenly in touch with the growing number of Americans who are willing to say that they do not find the succor they crave, or a truth that makes sense to them, in organized religion.\" He notes that since publishing \"The End of Faith\" in 2004, Harris has shifted focus to some extent from criticizing religion to trying to understand what people seek in religion and arguing these benefits are possible without it.\n\nStephen Cave of the \"Financial Times\" similarly described \"Waking Up\" as \"a fine book\" and observed, \"although it portrays only a fragment of the emerging picture of post-Christian spirituality, it nonetheless does so with great colour and clarity – like a shining stained glass window for a church that is still being built.\" \"Kirkus Reviews\" called it \"A demanding, illusion-shattering book certain to receive criticism from both the scientific and the religious camps.\" Peter Clothier, writing for the \"Huffington Post\", described it as \"an immensely readable and enjoyable book. Harris writes about the profound issues that affect our lives with clarity, and with occasional humor.\"\n\nIt received a more mixed response from Trevor Quirk of \"The New Republic\", who criticized what he perceived as the book's inconsistencies and Harris's willingness to belittle religious people. He nevertheless wrote, \"[Harris's] new book, whether discussing the poverty of spiritual language, the neurophysiology of consciousness, psychedelic experience, or the quandaries of the self, at the very least acknowledges the potency and importance of the religious impulse—though Harris might name it differently—that fundamental and common instinct to seek not just an answer to life, but a way to \"live\" that answer.\" Likewise, the \"Washington Independent Review of Books\"' Holly Smith writes, \"Overall, Harris’ book has much to recommend it, but not so much that it should be anyone’s first stop on the road to secular spirituality.\"\n\n\n"}
