{"id": "1979418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1979418", "title": "501(c) organization", "text": "501(c) organization\n\nA 501(c) organization is a nonprofit organization in the federal law of the United States according to and is one of 29 types of nonprofit organizations exempt from some federal income taxes. Sections 503 through 505 set out the requirements for attaining such exemptions. Many states refer to Section 501(c) for definitions of organizations exempt from state taxation as well. 501(c) organizations can receive unlimited contributions from individuals, corporations, and unions.\n\nFor example, a nonprofit organization may be tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) if its primary activities are charitable, religious, educational, scientific, literary, testing for public safety, fostering amateur sports competition, preventing cruelty to children, or preventing cruelty to animals.\n\nAccording to the IRS Publication 557, in the \"Organization Reference Chart\" section, the following is an exact list of 501(c) organization types and their corresponding descriptions.\n\n\n\nUnder Section 511, a 501(c) organization is subject to tax on its \"unrelated business income\", whether or not the organization actually makes a profit, but not including selling donated merchandise or other business or trade carried on by volunteers, or certain bingo games. Disposal of donated goods valued over $2,500, or acceptance of goods worth over $5,000 may also trigger special filing and record-keeping requirements.\n\nTax exemption does not excuse an organization from maintaining proper records and filing any required annual or special-purpose tax returns, e.g., and . Prior to 2008, an annual return was not generally required from an exempt organization accruing less than $25,000 in gross income yearly. Since 2008, most organizations whose annual gross receipts are less than $50,000 must file an annual information return known as Form 990-N. Form 990-N must be submitted electronically using an authorized IRS e-file provider. Form 990, Form 990-EZ, and Form 990-PF may be filed either by mail or electronically through an authorized e-file provider.\n\nFailure to file required returns such as Form 990 (Return of Organization Exempt From Income Tax) may result in fines of up to $250,000 per year. Exempt or political organizations, excluding churches or similar religious entities, must make their returns, reports, notices, and exempt applications available for public inspection. The organization's Form 990 (or similar such public record as the Form 990-EZ or Form 990-PF) is available for public inspection and photocopying at the offices of the exempt organization, through a written request and payment for photocopies by mail from the exempt organization, or through a direct Form 4506-A \"Request for Public Inspection or Copy or Political Organization IRS Form\" request to the IRS of for the past three tax years. Form 4506-A also allows the public inspection or photocopying access to Form 1023 \"Application for Recognition of Exemption\" or Form 1024, Form 8871 \"Political Organization Notice of Section 527 Status\", and Form 8872 \"Political Organization Report of Contribution and Expenditures\". Internet access to many organizations' 990 and some other forms are available through GuideStar. Certain organizations are exempt from filing Form 990, such as churches, their integrated auxiliaries, and conventions or associations of churches; the exclusively religious activities of any religious order; and religious organizations; and most organizations whose annual gross receipts are less than $5,000. Failure to file such timely returns and to make other specific information available to the public also is prohibited.\n\n501(c)(3) tax-exemptions apply to entities that are organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for testing for public safety, or to foster national or international amateur sports competition, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals. The 501(c)(3) exemption also applies for any unincorporated community chest, fund, cooperating association, or foundation that is organized and operated exclusively for those purposes. There are also supporting organizations—often referred to in shorthand form as \"Friends of\" organizations. , provides a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for some donors who make charitable contributions to most types of 501(c)(3) organizations, among others.\n\nOrganizations described in section 501(c)(3) are prohibited from conducting political campaign activities to intervene in elections to public office. On the other hand, public charities (but not private foundations) may conduct a limited amount of lobbying to influence legislation. Although the law states that \"No substantial part...\" of a public charity's activities can go to lobbying, charities may register for a 501(h) election allowing them to lawfully conduct lobbying activities as long as their financial expenditure does not exceed a specified amount. 501(c)(3) organizations risk loss of tax exempt status if any of these rules are violated.\n\nA 501(c)(3) organization is allowed to conduct some or all of its charitable activities outside the United States. Donors' contributions to a 501(c)(3) organization are tax-deductible only if the contribution is for the use of the 501(c)(3) organization, and that the 501(c)(3) organization is not merely serving as an agent or conduit of a foreign charitable organization. Additional procedures are required of 501(c)(3) organizations that are private foundations.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization is a social welfare organization, such as a civic organization or a neighborhood association. An organization is considered by the IRS to be operated exclusively for the promotion of social welfare if it is primarily engaged in promoting the common good and general welfare of the people of the community. Net earnings must be exclusively used for charitable, educational, or recreational purposes.\n\nAccording to \"The Washington Post\", 501(c)(4) organizations:...are allowed to participate in politics, so long as politics do not become their primary focus. What that means in practice is that they must spend less than 50 percent of their money on politics. So long as they don't run afoul of that threshold, the groups can influence elections, which they typically do through advertising.\n\n501(c)(4) are similar to 501(c)(5) and 501(c)(6) in that the organizations may inform the public on controversial subjects and attempt to influence legislation relevant to its program and, unlike 501(c)(3) organizations, they may also participate in political campaigns and elections, as long as their primary activity is the promotion of social welfare and related to the organization's purpose.\n\nThe income tax exemption for 501(c)(4) organizations applies to most of their operations, but income spent on political activities—generally the advocacy of a particular candidate in an election—is taxable. An \"action\" organization generally qualifies as a 501(c)(4) organization. An \"action\" organization is one whose activities substantially include, or are exclusively, direct or grassroots lobbying related to advocacy for or against legislation or proposing, supporting, or opposing legislation that is related to its purpose.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization may directly or indirectly support or oppose a candidate for public office as long as such activities are not a substantial amount of its activities.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization that lobbies must register with the Clerk of the House if it lobbies members of the House or their staff. Likewise, a 501(c)(4) organization must register with the Secretary of the Senate if it lobbies members of the Senate or their staff. In addition, the 501(c)(4) organization must either inform its members the amount it spends on lobbying or pay a proxy tax to the Internal Revenue Service. Lobbying expenses and political expenses are not deductible as business expenses.\n\nThe use of 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), and 501(c)(6) organizations has been affected by the 2007 FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc., in which the Supreme Court struck the part of the McCain-Feingold Act that prohibited 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), and 501(c)(6) from broadcasting electioneering communications. The Act defined an electioneering communication as a communication that mentions a candidate's name 60 days before a primary or 30 days before a general election.\n\nContributions to 501(c)(4) organizations are not tax-deductible as charitable donations unless the organization is either a volunteer fire department or a veterans organization. Dues or contributions to 501(c)(4) organizations may be deductible as a business expense under IRC 162, although amounts paid for intervention or participation in any political campaign, direct lobbying, grass roots lobbying, and contact with certain federal officials are not deductible. If a 501(c)(4) engages in a substantial number of these activities, then only the amount of dues or contributions that can be attributed to other activities may be deductible as a business expense.\n\nThe organization must provide a notice to its members containing a reasonable estimate of the amount related to lobbying and political campaign expenditures, or else it is subject to a proxy tax on its lobbying and political campaign expenditures. It must also state that contributions to the organization are not deductible as charitable contributions during fundraising.\n\nA 501(c)(4) organization is not required to disclose their donors publicly, with the exception of organizations that make independent expenditures as of 2018. The former complete lack of disclosure led to extensive use of the 501(c)(4) provisions for organizations that are actively involved in lobbying, and has become controversial. Criticized as \"dark money\", spending from these organizations on political advertisements has exceeded spending from Super PACs. Spending by organizations that do not disclose their donors increased from less than $5.2 million in 2006 to well over $300 million during the 2012 election season.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(4) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nThe origins of 501(c)(4) organizations date back to the Revenue Act of 1913, which created a new group of tax-exempt organizations dedicated to social welfare in a precursor to what is now Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(4). \n\nThe Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 introduced a new requirement on 501(c)(4) organizations. Within 60 days of the organization's formation, a 501(c)(4) organization is required to file Form 8976 with the Internal Revenue Service as notification that it is operating as a section 501(c)(4) organization. The Internal Revenue Service will acknowledge receipt of the notification, but the acknowledgment is not a determination that the organization qualifies for section 501(c)(4) tax-exempt status. A 501(c)(4) organization is not required to send the notification if the organization was formed on or before July 8, 2016, and it either applied for a determination letter using Form 1024 or filed a Form 990 between December 19, 2015 and July 8, 2016.\n\nAs of January 2018, the application for recognition of exemption as a 501(c)(4) organization is a new form, Form 1024-A, rather than Form 1024.\n\nA 501(c)(5) organization is a labor organization, an agricultural organization, or a horticultural organization. Labor unions, county fairs, and flower societies are examples of these types of groups. Labor union organizations were a primary benefactor of this organization type, dating to the 19th century. According to the Internal Revenue Service, a 501(c)(5) organization has a duty of providing service to its members first. The organization's benefits may not inure to a specific member, but the rules for inurement vary among the three different types of organizations under this segment. A 501(c)(5) organization can make unlimited corporate, individual, or union contributions.\n\nA labor organization may pay benefits to its members because paying benefits improves all members' shared working conditions. An agricultural organization can provide financial assistance to its members in order to improve the conditions of those engaged in agricultural pursuits generally. Members can benefit in incidental ways from the organization's exempt activities as long as the benefits are available to all persons.\n\nThe first exemption for labor organizations from corporate income tax was enacted as part of the Payne–Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909.\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1913 excluded \"labor, agricultural, or horticultural organizations\" from income tax liability.\n\nMuch like 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(6) organizations, 501(c)(5) organizations may also perform some political activities. 501(c)(5) organizations are allowed to attempt to influence legislation that is related to the common union interests of its members.\n\n501(c)(5) organizations can receive unlimited contributions from corporations, individuals, and labor unions. The names and addresses of contributors are not required to be made available for public inspection. All other information, including the amount of contributions, the description of noncash contributions, and any other information, is required to be made available for public inspection unless it clearly identifies the contributor.\n\nA union membership dues paid to a 501(c)(5) organization are generally an ordinary and necessary business expense. The membership dues are tax-deductible in full unless a substantial part of the 501(c)(5) organization's activities consists of political activity, in which case a tax deduction is allowed only for the portion of membership dues that are for other activities.\n\nBecause associations involved in fishing and seafood harvesting were having difficulties qualifying for reduced postal rates, in 1976 Congress established Internal Revenue Code Section 501(5) to define \"agriculture\" as the art or science of cultivating land, harvesting crops or aquatic resources, or raising livestock.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(5) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nA 501(c)(6) organization is a business league, chambers of commerce like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a real estate board, a board of trade, a professional football league or an organization like the Edison Electric Institute and the Security Industry Association, that are not organized for profit and no part of the net earnings goes to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.\n\nA business league may qualify if it is an association of persons having a common business interest, whose purpose is to promote the common business interest and whose activities improve business conditions rather than actually conduct the business itself. Members of the organization must be of the same trade, business, occupation, or profession in order to qualify. A chamber of commerce or board of trade could qualify for similar reasons except that they may promote the common economic interests of all the commercial enterprises in a given trade or community.\n\nAn association would not qualify if its principal activities consist of securing benefits and performing particular services for members.\n\nAn association that promotes the common interests of certain hobbyists would not qualify because the Internal Revenue Service does not consider hobbies to be activities conducted as businesses.\n\nAn organization whose primary activity is advertising the products or services of its members does not qualify because the organization is performing a service for its members rather than promoting common interests. If an organization's primary activity is advertising the products or services of its members' industry as a whole, however, the organization will generally qualify if it also performs other services for its members.\n\nMuch like 501(c)(4) and 501(c)(5) organizations, 501(c)(6) organizations may also perform some political activities. 501(c)(6) organizations are allowed to attempt to influence legislation that is related to the common business interests of its members.\n\nA 501(c)(6) organization may receive unlimited contributions from corporations, individuals, and labor unions. The names and addresses of contributors are not required to be made available for public inspection, with the exception of a 501(c)(6) organization that makes independent expenditures. All other information, including the amount of contributions, the description of non-cash contributions, and any other information, is required to be made available for public inspection unless it clearly identifies the contributor. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is a large political spender, and Freedom Partners used its status as a 501(c)(6) organization to raise and distribute over $250 million during the 2012 election campaigns without disclosing its donors. The group's existence was not publicly known until nearly a year after the election.\n\nA business' membership dues paid to a 501(c)(6) organization are generally an ordinary and necessary business expense. The membership dues are tax-deductible in full unless a substantial part of the 501(c)(6) organization's activities consists of political activity, in which case a tax deduction is allowed only for the portion of membership dues that are for other activities.\n\nEvery organization, including a 501(c)(6) organization, that expressly advocates for the election or defeat of a particular political candidate and spends more than $250 during a calendar year must disclose the name of each person who contributed more than $200 during the calendar year to the Federal Election Commission. The Federal Election Commission is required to enforce this provision based on a federal court decision in 2018.\n\nThe predecessor of IRC 501(c)(6) was enacted as part of the Revenue Act of 1913 likely due to a U.S. Chamber of Commerce request for an exemption for nonprofit \"civic\" and \"commercial\" organizations, which resulted in IRC 501(c)(4) for nonprofit \"civic\" organizations and IRC 501(c)(6) for nonprofit \"commercially-oriented\" organizations. The Revenue Act of 1928 amended the statute to include real estate boards. In 1966, professional football leagues were added to the described organizations.\n\nThe Revenue Act of 1913 related to professional football leagues had both antitrust and tax provisions: The antitrust provision was enacted to permit the merger of the National and American Football Leagues to go forward without fear of an antitrust challenge under either the 1914 Clayton Antitrust Act or the 1914 Federal Trade Commission Act. IRC 501(c)(6) amendment was enacted in 1966 to ensure that a professional football league's exemption would not be jeopardized because it administered a players' pension fund. Additionally, a professional sports league's exemption is not to be jeopardized because its primary source of revenue is the sale of television broadcasting rights to its games because the broadcasting of games increases public awareness of the sport.\n\nIn 2013, Senator Tom Coburn introduced legislation to disallow a tax exemption for the National Football League, the Professional Golfers' Association, and other professional sports organizations. Coburn estimated the tax exemption cost $100 million, but he said he could not get other members of Congress to support the legislation.\n\nA 501(c)(7) organization is a social or recreational club that is organized for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable purposes. Members must share interests and have a common goal directed toward pleasure and recreation, and the organization must provide opportunities for personal contact among members. The organization's facilities and services must be open to its members and their guests only. The organization must be a club of individuals, and no individual may derive profit from the organization's net earnings. Examples include college alumni associations; college fraternities or college sororities operating chapter houses for students; country clubs; amateur sport clubs; supper clubs that provide a meeting place, library, and dining room for members; hobby clubs; and garden clubs.\n\nA substantial amount of the 501(c)(7) organization's activities must be related to social and recreational activities for its members. No more than 35 percent of its gross receipts may derive from non-members, and no more than 15 percent of its gross receipts is permitted to come from use of its facilities or services by the general public. An organization that exceeds these limits may lose its 501(c)(7) status.\n\nWhen a group of eight or fewer individuals, at least one of whom is a member, uses the organization's facilities and the member pays for the other individuals, the Internal Revenue Service will assume the nonmembers are the guests of the member, and the revenue is deemed to be derived from the member. Similarly, if at least 75 percent a group using club facilities are members of the organization, the Internal Revenue Service will assume the nonmembers are the guests of the member, and the revenue is deemed to be derived from the member. It is the responsibility of the organization to maintain these records. If the organization does not keep sufficient records to link revenue to a member, the Internal Revenue Service assumes the revenue came from a nonmember.\n\nThe organization is subject to unrelated business income tax for the revenue derived from nonmember use of its facilities and services, less allowable deductions. If the organization sells assets that were previously used for recreational or social purposes, the proceeds are not considered unrelated business income as long as the proceeds are reinvested in the organization.\n\nA 501(c)(7) organization cannot have a policy of discriminating on the basis of race, color, or religion. Nevertheless, a 501(c)(7) organization is permitted to limit its members to a particular religion in order to further the teachings of that religion. An auxiliary of a 501(c)(8) fraternal benefit society that limits membership to members of a particular religion is allowed to do so as well. The Internal Revenue Service has determined that 501(c)(7) are not prohibited from discriminating against ethnic groups.\n\nAn individual's donation to a fraternity is only a tax-deductible charitable contribution if the contribution \"is to be used exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals.\"\n\nThe predecessor of Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c)(7) was part of the Revenue Act of 1913, which provides a tax-exemption to \"fraternal beneficiary societies, orders, or associations operating under the lodge system or for the exclusive benefit of the members of a fraternity itself operating under the lodge system\". Congress justified the tax-exemption with the reasoning that the members join together to provide themselves with recreational or social organization without further tax consequences, similar as if they had paid for the benefits directly. Tax-exemption was available for organizations operated exclusively for pleasure, recreation, and other nonprofitable purposes.\n\nIn 1969, Congress passed a law stating that social and recreational clubs were permitted to engage in some unrelated business income, subject to income tax.\n\nA 501(c)(8) organization is a fraternal benefit society.\n\nThe society must have members of a similar calling, recreation, or profession, or members who work together to accomplish a worthy goal. The members have associated themselves in order to help each other and to promote the common cause. The society must have written documentation of its eligibility standards for membership, classes of membership, a process of admission, and rights and privileges of members.\n\nThe members must have a common bond, which may be based on religious beliefs, gender, occupation, ethnicity, or shared values.\n\nThe society must have a supreme governing body and subordinate lodges into which members are elected, initiated, or admitted in accordance with its laws. The supreme governing body should be composed of delegates elected directly by members or intermediate assemblies.\n\nThe society must offer benefits to members, which may include life insurance, medical insurance, scholarships, educational programs, travel opportunities, and discount programs. Revenue generated from providing benefits to non-members must be insubstantial to the society and may be taxable as unrelated business income.\n\nFraternal benefit societies trace their lineage back through mutual benefit societies, friendly societies and eventually to medieval guilds. Many fraternal benefit societies were founded to serve the needs of immigrants and other under-served groups who shared common bonds of religion, ethnicity, gender, occupation or shared values.\n\nSection 38 of the Payne–Aldrich Tariff Act of 1909 was the first law to provide a tax-exemption for fraternal beneficiary societies. The tax-exemption was later codified as section 501(c)(8) with the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.\n\nA 501(c)(13) organization is a certain type of cemetery company.\n\nThere are two primary types of eligible cemetery companies. A mutual cemetery company must be either \"owned by and operated exclusively for the benefit of its lot owners who hold such lots for bona fide burial purposes and not for the purpose of fesale\" or engages in the burial of impoverished people performing similar charitable activities. A nonprofit cemetery corporation must be incorporated solely for the purpose of the burial or the cremation of bodies and no part of its net earnings inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. Any net gain by the cemetery must be devoted to certain cemetery functions, such as the cemetery's operations, maintenance, and improvements; acquisition of cemetery property; and investment of the net gain in order to provide additional income for cemetery functions. Net gains are not allowed to be distributed to individuals.\n\nThe cemetery may restrict burials and cremations to a certain group of people, such as impoverished people, people adherent to a certain religion, or people who lived in a certain community, as long as it still serves a broad class of people and operates for public purposes, but a 501(c)(13) organization may not enforce overly restrictive restrictions. \n\nA perpetual care fund that is used by a profit-making cemetery to maintain cemetery properties and burial lots is not eligible under 501(c)(13). On the other hand, a nonprofit organization may have a perpetual care fund without jeopardizing its exemption under Section 501(c)(13). \n\nA cemetery that owns or operates a morgue, whether on its own grounds or elsewhere, is not eligible under 501(c)(13) because the Internal Revenue Service does not consider mortuary services necessarily incident to burial purposes. The provision of traditional burial services that directly support and maintain basic tenets and beliefs of a religion regarding burial of its members\" may still be eligible under 501(c)(13).\n\nA cemetery that buries animals is not eligible under 501(c)(13).\n\nA cemetery company wishing to be recognized under Section 501(c)(13) needs to prepare and file Form 1024 with the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nCharitable contributions to a 501(c)(13) organization are tax-deductible to the donor. Payments for perpetual care of a particular lot or a particular crypt are not considered tax-deductible charitable contributions. Payments made as part of the purchase price of a burial lot or crypt are not considered tax-deductible charitable contributions, even if a portion of the payment is for the perpetual care of the entirety of the cemetery. Bequests or gifts to a 501(c)(13) cemetery is not deductible for federal estate tax purposes or gift tax purposes.\n\nHistorically, cemeteries were exempt from local property taxes and excise taxes in most states because states generally considered cemeteries to be performing a recognized civic service. \n\nThe Tariff Act of 1913 provided an exemption from federal income taxes for mutual cemetery companies that were organized and operated exclusively \"for the benefit of their members\". In 1921, Congress extended the tax-exemption to cemetery companies that are not mutual and to cemetery companies that are not operated for profit as well as any corporation solely incorporated to operate a cemetery and whose net gains do not inure to any person. \n\nIn 1970, Congress included crematorium in the definition of cemetery for the purposes of Section 501(c)(13).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56268676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56268676", "title": "5G NR frequency bands", "text": "5G NR frequency bands\n\nFrom 3GPP TS 38.101-1, the following table lists the specified frequency bands of the 5G NR standard and the channel bandwidths supported for the FR1 bands. Superseded bands are indicated by a grey background.\n\nLikewise, for FR2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3360153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3360153", "title": "A v Secretary of State for the Home Department", "text": "A v Secretary of State for the Home Department\n\nA and others v Secretary of State for the Home Department [2004] UKHL 56 (also known as the Belmarsh 9 case) is a UK human rights case heard before the House of Lords. It held that the indefinite detention of foreign prisoners in Belmarsh without trial under section 23 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 was incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nThe case should not be confused with the case \"A v Secretary of State for the Home Department (No 2)\" [2005] UKHL 71, which relates to the use of evidence obtained by torture in British courts.\n\nThe case began with nine men who challenged a decision of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission to eject them from the country on the basis that there was evidence that they threatened national security.\n\nOf the nine appellants, all except two were detained in December 2001; the others were detained in February and April 2002 respectively. All were detained under the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001. Part 4 of the Act provided for their indefinite detention without trial and deportation. However, the power was only applied to non-British nationals. Under section 25 of this Act, they had the right to appeal to the Special Immigration Appeals Commission against their detention.\n\nThe House of Lords held by a majority (Lord Bingham of Cornhill, Lord Nicholls of Birkenhead, Lord Hope of Craighead, Lord Scott of Foscote, Lord Rodger of Earlsferry, Baroness Hale of Richmond and Lord Carswell) that, whilst their detention was lawful under the ATCSA 2001, section 23 was incompatible with the articles of the European Convention on Human Rights. As a consequence, the House of Lords made a declaration of incompatibility under section 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998, and allowed the appeals.\n\nLord Hoffmann dissented in strong terms, but agreed that the appeals should be allowed. Whereas the majority argued that the 2001 Act was contrary to the ECHR because it discriminated between nationals and foreign nationals (Art.14 ECHR), Lord Hoffmann stated that the whole scheme was incompatible with the United Kingdom's constitution, and its commitment to human rights. He dismissed the government's argument that under the ECHR and HRA it was possible to derogate from the ECHR's general provisions. His view was that the test – that there was a \"threat to the life of the nation\" – was not fulfilled.\n\nLord Walker of Gestingthorpe also dissented, but would have dismissed the appeal. In his opinion, the discrimination was justified due to \"sound, rational grounds for different treatment\". While the indefinite detention provisions were a \"grave concern\", they were \"necessary\" and accompanied by \"several important safeguards against oppression\". He therefore held that Part 4 of the 2001 Act was \"proportionate, rational and non-discriminatory\".\n\nParliament decided to replace Part 4 of ATCSA 2001 with the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005. This allows anyone of any nationality to be subjected to a control order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20386441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20386441", "title": "Alpart", "text": "Alpart\n\nAlumina Partners of Jamaica, also known as Alpart, is a company that owns and operates a bauxite refinery in Nain, Jamaica. Alpart was founded in 1969 as a joint venture by Kaiser Aluminum, Reynolds Aluminum, and Anaconda. Alpart exports 1.65 million tonnes of alumina overseas per year, and earned gross revenues of US$1.3 billion in 2007. As of 2011, previous partner Hydro divested its 35% stake to Rusal which assumed 100% stake in Alpart, wholly owned by RusAl the refinery has paused operations due to the company's alumina product experiencing a drastic 60 per cent price reversal since July 2008 with the temporary shutdown allowing the plant to be prepared for future developments that may see the industry emerging from the economic downturns it has faced.\n\nIn 2016, UC Rusal sold 100% stake of the Alumina Partners of Jamaica (‘Alpart’) to the Chinese state industrial group, JIUQUAN IRON & STEEL (GROUP) Co. Ltd. (‘JISCO’).\n\nalpart\n"}
{"id": "1480223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1480223", "title": "Armistice of 22 June 1940", "text": "Armistice of 22 June 1940\n\nThe Armistice of 22 June 1940 was signed at 18:36 near Compiègne, France, by officials of Nazi Germany and the French Third Republic. It did not come into effect until after midnight on 25 June.\n\nSignatories for Germany included senior military officers like Wilhelm Keitel, the commander-in-chief of the Wehrmacht (the German armed forces), while those on the French side were more junior, such as General Charles Huntziger. Following the decisive German victory in the Battle of France (10 May–21 June 1940), this armistice established a German occupation zone in Northern and Western France that encompassed all English Channel and Atlantic Ocean ports and left the remainder \"free\" to be governed by the French. Adolf Hitler deliberately chose Compiègne Forest as the site to sign the armistice due to its symbolic role as the site of the 1918 Armistice with Germany that signaled the end of World War I with Germany's surrender.\n\nThe best, most modernised French armies had been sent north and lost in the resulting encirclement; the French had lost their best heavy weaponry and their best armored formations. Between May and June, French forces were in general retreat and Germany threatened to occupy Paris. The French government was forced to relocate to Bordeaux on 10 June to avoid capture and declared Paris to be an open city the same day.\n\nBy 22 June, the German Armed Forces (\"Wehrmacht\") had losses of 27,000 dead, more than 111,000 wounded and 18,000 missing.\n\nFrench losses were 92,000 dead and more than 200,000 wounded.\n\nThe British Expeditionary Force suffered 68,000 casualties, with around 10,000 killed.\n\nWhen Adolf Hitler received word from the French government that they wished to negotiate an armistice, Hitler selected Compiègne Forest as the site for the negotiations. As Compiègne was the site of the 1918 Armistice ending the Great War with Germany's conflict cessation, Hitler used this place as a supreme moment of revenge for Germany over France. Hitler decided that the signing should take place in the same rail carriage, the Compiègne Wagon, where the Germans had signed the 1918 armistice. However, in the last sentence of the preamble, the drafters inserted \"However, Germany does not have the intention to use the armistice conditions and armistice negotiations as a form of humiliation against such a valiant opponent\", referring to the French forces. Furthermore, in Article 3, Clause 2, the drafters stated that their intention was not to heavily occupy North-West France after the cessation of hostilities with Britain.\n\nWilliam Shirer, who was present on that day, reports, \"I am but fifty yards from him. […] I have seen that face many times at the great moments of his life. But today! It is afire with scorn, anger, hate, revenge, triumph.\" Then, in the same railway carriage in which the 1918 Armistice had been signed (removed from a museum building and placed exactly where it was in 1918), on 21 June 1940, Hitler sat in the same chair in which Marshal Ferdinand Foch had sat when he faced the representatives of the defeated German Empire. After listening to the reading of the preamble, Hitler – in a calculated gesture of disdain for the French delegates – left the carriage, as Foch had done in 1918, leaving the negotiations to his \"Oberkommando der Wehrmacht\" (High Command of the Armed Forces) Chief, General Wilhelm Keitel. Then negotiations lasted one day, until the evening of 22 June 1940: General Huntzinger had to discuss the terms by phone with the French government representatives who had fled to Bordeaux, mainly with the newly nominated defence minister, General Maxime Weygand.\n\nAdolf Hitler had a number of reasons for agreeing to an armistice. He wanted to ensure that France did not continue to fight from North Africa, and he wanted to ensure that the French Navy was taken out of the war. In addition, leaving a French government in place would relieve Germany of the considerable burden of administering French territory, particularly as he turned his attentions towards Britain. Finally, as Germany lacked a navy sufficient to occupy France's overseas territories, Hitler's only practical recourse to deny the British use of them was to maintain a formally independent and neutral French rump state.\n\nAccording to William Shirer's book \"Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\", French General Charles Huntziger complained that the armistice terms imposed on France were harsher than those imposed on Germany in 1918. They provided for German occupation of three-fifths of France north and west of a line through Geneva and Tours and extending to the Spanish border, so as to give Nazi Germany's \"Kriegsmarine\" access to all French Channel and Atlantic ports. All persons who had been granted political asylum had to be surrendered and all occupation costs had to be borne by France, approximately 400 million French francs a day. A minimal French Army would be permitted. As one of Hitler's few concessions, the French Navy was to be disarmed but not surrendered, for Hitler realized that pushing France too far could result in France fighting on from the French colonial empire. An unoccupied region in the south, the \"Zone libre\", was left relatively free to be governed by a rump French administration based in Vichy, which also administered the occupied zones, albeit under severe restrictions.\n\nThis was envisaged to last until a final peace treaty was negotiated. At the time, both French and Germans thought the occupation would be a provisional state of affairs and last only until Britain came to terms, which was believed to be imminent. For instance, none of the French delegation objected to the stipulation that French soldiers would remain prisoners of war until the cessation of all hostilities. Nearly one million Frenchmen were thus forced to spend the next five years in prisoner of war camps (about a third of the initial 1.5 million prisoners taken were released or exchanged as part of the \"Service du Travail Obligatoire\" forced labour programme by the Germans, before the war ended).\n\nHowever, a final peace treaty was never negotiated, and the unoccupied zone was occupied by Germany and its Italian ally in Operation \"Anton\" following the invasion of French North Africa by the Allies in November 1942.\n\nArticle 19 of the Franco-German armistice required the French state to turn over to German authorities any German national on French territory, who would then frequently face deportation to a concentration camp (the \"Surrender on Demand\" clause). Keitel gave verbal assurances that this would apply mainly to those refugees who had \"fermented the war\", a euphemism for Jews, and especially German Jews who until then had enjoyed asylum in France. Keitel also made one other concession, that French aircraft need not be handed over to the Germans.\n\nThe French delegation – led by General Charles Huntziger – tried to soften the harsher terms of the armistice, but Keitel replied that they would have to accept or reject the armistice as it was. Given the military situation that France was in, Huntziger had \"no choice\" but to accede to the armistice terms. The cease-fire went into effect at 00:35 on 25 June 1940, more than two days later, only after another armistice was signed between France and Italy, the main German ally in Europe.\n\nThe armistice did have some relative advantages for the French, compared to worse possible outcomes, such as keeping the colonial empire and the fleet, and, by avoiding full occupation and disarmament, the remaining French rump state in the unoccupied zone could enforce a certain \"de facto\" independence and neutrality vis-à-vis the Axis.\n\nThe Armistice site was demolished by the Germans on Hitler's orders three days later. The carriage itself was taken to Berlin as a trophy of war, along with pieces of a large stone tablet which bore the inscription (in French):\n\nThe Alsace-Lorraine Monument (depicting a German Eagle impaled by a sword) was also destroyed and all evidence of the site was obliterated, except notably the statue of Marshal Foch: Hitler ordered it to be left intact, so that it would be honoring only a wasteland. The railway carriage was later exhibited in Berlin, and then taken to Crawinkel in Thuringia in 1945, where it was destroyed by SS troops and the remains buried. After the war, the site and memorials were restored by German POW labour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5588622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5588622", "title": "Bank Act (Canada)", "text": "Bank Act (Canada)\n\nThe Bank Act (1991, c. 46) (the \"Act\") is an Act of the Government of Canada respecting banks and banking.\n\nThe \"Bank Act\" was originally passed in 1871. The terms of the \"Act\" provide for a statutory review of the \"Act\" on a regular basis to ensure that legislators update the \"Act\" in order that it keep pace with developments in the financial system. Historically, this was done on a decennial basis. In 1992, this requirement was changed to every five years. The \"Act\" contains a \"sunset\" clause providing that it and the bank charters provided by it will expire unless the statutory review is conducted every five years. The most recent statutory review of the \"Act\" took place in 2012.\n\nIn 2010, the Parliament of Canada passed amendments to the \"Act\" to allow federal credit unions to exist as a new class of financial institution. Credit unions differ from banks in that they are member-owned, democratically controlled and governed by co-operative principles. The \"Bank Act\" allows that federal credit unions may either be created by five persons (of which three must be individuals), or through the continuance of one or more credit unions existing within provincial jurisdiction. The provisions came into force at the end of 2012.\n\nThe first federal credit union in Canada was UNI Financial Cooperation (formerly Mouvement des caisses populaires acadiennes), based in New Brunswick, which converted to a federal charter in 2016.\n\nOn June 30, 2017, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions issued an advisory, stating that it planned to enforce the \"Bank Act\"'s prohibitions on using the word or verbiage \"bank\" in connection to any financial service that is not a bank. The terms were required to be removed from websites by the end of 2017, from print materials by the end of June 2018, and from physical signage by the end of June 2019. The announcement was criticised by credit unions, who believed that it would make it difficult to market their services in a comparable manner to banks, as well as the costs of updating marketing materials to comply with the mandate. The OSFI suspended the advisory in August 2017, after the federal government stated that it would review the rules. In February 2018, the \"Bank Act\" was amended as a riser to the federal budget, allowing credit unions to use banking vernacular to market their services.\n\nThe \"Act\" groups banks in three schedules. Schedule I banks are domestic banks allowed to accept deposits. Schedule II banks are subsidiaries of foreign banks that allowed to accept deposits through branches in Canada. Schedule III banks are foreign banks with certain restrictions upon the banking business they can conduct in Canada.\n\nThe Canadian banking industry includes 20 domestic banks, 24 foreign bank subsidiaries and 22 foreign bank branches operating in Canada. The provincial-government-owned Alberta Treasury Branches and Canada's many credit unions are not included in this list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10927059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10927059", "title": "Bear spray", "text": "Bear spray\n\nBear spray is a specific aerosol bear deterrent, whose active ingredients are capsaicin and related capsaicinoids, that is used to deter aggressive or charging bears. \n\nThe development of capsaicin bear spray took place in the mid 1980’s under principal investigator Carrie Hunt, a University of Montana graduate student working under the supervision of Dr. Charles Jonkel and Dr. Bart O’Gara. Hunt had identified commercial pepper sprays as an effective, but unreliable deterrent for bears in previous research, however these products were only effective inconsistently and required short distances. Hunt's thesis was published by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 1984. Bill Pounds, who eventually founded Counter Assault bear spray, assisted Hunt and offered to help prototype a reliable aerosol bear spray canister for Hunt's research. They developed a bear spray formula with a spray range of over 30 feet and a spray time of over 7 seconds. Pounds played an important part in developing the ingredients, the dispersal system, and the recommended specifications of bear spray. The company he founded, Counter Assault, became the first Environmental Protection Agency registered aerosol bear spray.\n\nBear spray contains 1-2% capsaicin and related capsaicinoids, the key active ingredients. \n\nBear spray is intended to be used to deter an aggressive or charging bear. A user points the canister at an aggressive bear and sprays the contents for 2–3 seconds. Effective distance will vary depending on the manufacturer of the spray, but sprays are reported to be effective when sprayed at a charging or aggressive bear from a distance of , or an average of roughly .\n\nBear spray is a very effective deterrent when used properly. In a 2008 review of bear attacks in Alaska from 1985–2006, Smith et al. found that bear spray stopped a bear's \"undesirable behavior\" in 92% of cases. Further, 98% of persons using bear spray in close-range encounters escaped uninjured.\n\nThe efficacy of bear spray depends on the situation and circumstances of the attack. In the 2008 study, Tom Smith of Brigham Young University reported, “No bear spray has ever been reported to kill a bear. It is our belief that widespread use of bear spray will promote human safety and bear conservation.” On the other hand, latent spray (on object) has also led to the attraction of bears, which usually end up with the bear destroying the spray-covered object. \n\nA United States Geological Survey article, \"Bear Spray Safety Program,\" says that bear spray is effective in fending off aggressive bears while also preventing injury to both the human and the bear. It also states, \"No deterrent is 100-percent effective.\" In \"Living with Grizzlies,\" the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service states, “The Service supports the pepper spray policy of the Interagency Grizzly bear Committee, which states that bear spray is not a substitute for following proper bear avoidance safety techniques, and that bear spray should be used as a deterrent only in an aggressive or attacking confrontation with a bear.”\n\nStudies suggest that bear spray is effective at reducing the risk of injury or death in these situations. While bear spray can be effective, authorities stress that proper bear-awareness and avoidance techniques are the best ways to minimize injuries due to human–bear conflict.\n\nA 2008 \"Efficacy of Bear Deterrent Spray in Alaska\" study stated:\n\n\nBear spray is legal across the United States. It can be purchased even in Hawaii, New York, or Massachusetts, where standard pepper sprays are illegal unless bought locally by certified firearms dealers or pharmacists. In Canada, while legal for use against bears, bear spray is a prohibited weapon if intended to be used against humans.\n\nBear spray is illegal in some U.S. National Parks, but Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks encourage carrying bear spray in the backcountry as protection against bears who reside there.\n\nBear sprays are considered a pesticide in the US and must be registered with the Environmental Protection Agency. The capsacin in products sold in the U.S. are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency, under the FIFRA act by Congress. \n"}
{"id": "55048622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55048622", "title": "British Journal of American Legal Studies", "text": "British Journal of American Legal Studies\n\nThe British Journal of American Legal Studies is a peer-reviewed journal devoted to United States law, based in the United Kingdom. It was founded in 2012, and publishes articles related to constitutional law having in the United States, including human rights, legal and political theory, socio-legal studies and legal history.\n\n"}
{"id": "7706038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7706038", "title": "Charitable Uses Act 1601", "text": "Charitable Uses Act 1601\n\nThe Charitable Uses Act of 1601 (known as the \"Statute of Elizabeth\") is an Act (43 Eliz I, c.4) of the Parliament of England. It was repealed by section 13(1) of the Mortmain and Charitable Uses Act 1888 (c.42) (but see section 13(2) of that Act).\n\nThe preamble to the act contained a list of purposes or activities that was, in effect, a list of purposes or activities that the State believed were of general benefit to society, and to which the State wanted to encourage private contributions. The list has formed the foundation of the modern definition of charitable purposes, which has developed through case law. This has come about because the courts, in considering whether or not a particular purpose was charitable in law, have tended to look for an analogy between the purpose under consideration and the list, and to recognise the purpose as charitable if an analogy with the 1601 list could be found. \n"}
{"id": "9808214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9808214", "title": "Combustibility and flammability", "text": "Combustibility and flammability\n\nFlammable materials are those that ignite more easily than other materials, whereas those that are harder to ignite or burn less vigorously are combustible.\n\nThe degree of flammability or combustibility in air depends largely upon the chemical composition of the subject material, as well as the ratio of mass versus surface area. Take wood as an example. Finely divided wood dust can undergo explosive combustion and produce a blast wave. A piece of paper (made from wood) catches on fire quite easily. A heavy oak desk is much harder to ignite, even though the wood fibre is the same in all three materials. \n\nCommon sense (and indeed scientific consensus until the mid-1700s) would seem to suggest that material \"disappears\" when burned, as only the ash is left. In fact, there is an increase in weight because the combustible material reacts (or combines) chemically with oxygen, which also has mass. The original mass of combustible material and the mass of the oxygen required for combustion equals the mass of the combustion products (ash, water, carbon dioxide, and other gases). Antoine Lavoisier, one of the pioneers in these early insights, stated that \"Nothing is lost, nothing is created, everything is transformed\", which would later be known as the law of conservation of mass. Lavoisier used the experimental fact that some metals gained mass when they burned to support his ideas.\n\nHistorically, \"flammable\", \"inflammable\" and \"combustible\" meant \"capable of burning\". The word \"inflammable\" came through French from the Latin \"inflammāre\" = \"to set fire to,\" where the Latin preposition \"in-\" means \"in\" as in \"indoctrinate\", rather than \"not\" as in \"invisible\" and \"ineligible\".\n\nThe word \"inflammable\" may be erroneously thought to mean \"non-flammable\". The erroneous usage of the word \"inflammable\" is a significant safety hazard. Therefore, since the 1950s, efforts to put forward the use of \"flammable\" in place of \"inflammable\" were accepted by linguists, and it is now the accepted standard in American English and British English. Antonyms of \"flammable/inflammable\" include: \"non-flammable\", \"non-inflammable\", \"incombustible\", \"non-combustible\", \"not flammable\", and \"fireproof\".\n\n\"Flammable\" applies to materials that ignite more easily than other materials, and thus are more dangerous and more highly regulated. Less easily ignited less-vigorously burning materials are \"combustible\". For example, in the United States flammable liquids, by definition, have a flash point below —where combustible liquids have a flash point above . Flammable solids are solids that are readily combustible, or may cause or contribute to fire through friction. Readily combustible solids are powdered, granular, or pasty substances that easily ignite by brief contact with an ignition source, such as a burning match, and spread flame rapidly. The technical definitions vary between countries so the United Nations created the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals, which defines the flash point temperature of flammable liquids as between 0 and and combustible liquids between and .\n\nFlammability is the ability of a substance to burn or ignite, causing fire or combustion. The degree of difficulty required to cause the combustion of a substance is quantified through fire testing. Internationally, a variety of test protocols exist to quantify flammability. The ratings achieved are used in building codes, insurance requirements, fire codes and other regulations governing the use of building materials as well as the storage and handling of highly flammable substances inside and outside of structures and in surface and air transportation. For instance, changing an occupancy by altering the flammability of the contents requires the owner of a building to apply for a building permit to make sure that the overall fire protection design basis of the facility can take the change into account.\n\nA fire test can be conducted to determine the degree of flammability. Test standards used to make this determination but are not limited to the following:\n\n\nFlammability of furniture is of concern as cigarettes and candle accidents can trigger domestic fires. In 1975, California began implementing Technical Bulletin 117 (TB 117), which required that materials such as polyurethane foam used to fill furniture be able to withstand a small open flame, equivalent to a candle, for at least 12 seconds. In polyurethane foam, furniture manufacturers typically meet TB 117 with additive halogenated organic flame retardants. No other U.S. states had similar standards, but because California has such a large market, manufacturers meet TB 117 in products that they distribute across the United States. The proliferation of flame retardants, and especially halogenated organic flame retardants, in furniture across the United States is strongly linked to TB 117. When it became apparent that the risk-benefit ratio of this approach was unfavorable and industry had used falsified documentation (i.e. see David Heimbach) for the use of flame retardants, California modified TB 117 to require that fabric covering upholstered furniture meet a smolder test replacing the open flame test. Gov. Jerry Brown signed the modified TB117-2013, which became effective in 2014.\n\nFlammable substances include, but are not limited to:\n\n\nThe US Government uses the Hazardous Materials Identification System (HMIS) standard for flammability ratings, as do many US regulatory agencies, and also the US National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).\n\nThe ratings are as follows:\nFor existing buildings, fire codes focus on maintaining the occupancies as originally intended. In other words, if a portion of a building were designed as an apartment, one could not suddenly load it with flammable liquids and turn it into a gas storage facility, because the fire load and smoke development in that one apartment would be so immense as to overtax the active fire protection as well as the passive fire protection means for the building. The handling and use of flammable substances inside a building is subject to the local fire code, which is ordinarily enforced by the local fire prevention officer.\n\nCombustibility is a measure of how easily a substance bursts into flame, through fire or combustion. This is an important property to consider when a substance is used for construction or is being stored. It is also important in processes that produce combustible substances as a by-product. Special precautions are usually required for substances that are easily combustible. These measures may include installation of fire sprinklers or storage remote from possible sources of ignition.\n\nSubstances with low combustibility may be selected for construction where the fire risk must be reduced, such as apartment buildings, houses, or offices. If combustible resources are used there is greater chance of fire accidents and deaths. Fire resistant substances are preferred for building materials and furnishings.\n\nFor an Authority Having Jurisdiction, combustibility is defined by the local code. In the National Building Code of Canada, it is defined as follows:\n\n\n\nBS 476-4:1970 defines a test for combusibility in which a technician heats three specimens of a material in a furnace. Non-combustibile materials are those for which none of the three specimens either:\n\n\nOtherwise, the material is classified as combustible.\n\nVarious countries have tests for determining noncombustibility of materials. Most involve the heating of a specified quantity of the test specimen for a set duration. Usually, the material cannot support combustion and must not undergo a certain loss of mass. As a rule of thumb, concrete, steel, ceramics, in other words inorganic substances pass these tests, so building codes list them as suitable and sometimes even mandate them for use in certain applications. In Canada, for instance, firewalls must be made of concrete.\n\nA number of industrial processes produce combustible dust as a by-product. The most common being wood dust. Combustible dust has been defined as: \"a solid material composed of distinct particles or pieces, regardless of size, shape, or chemical composition, which presents a fire or deflagration hazard when suspended in air or some other oxidizing medium over a range of concentrations.\" In addition to wood, combustible dusts include metals, especially magnesium, titanium and aluminum, as well as other carbon-based dusts. There are at least a 140 known substances that produce combustible dust. While the particles in a combustible dusts may be of any size, normally they have a diameter of less than 420 µm. , the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration has yet to adopt a comprehensive set of rules on combustible dust.\n\nWhen suspended in air (or any oxidizing environment), the fine particles of combustible dust present a potential for explosions. Accumulated dust, even when not suspended in air, remains a fire hazard. The National Fire Protection Association (U.S.) specifically addresses the prevention of fires and dust explosions in agricultural and food products facilities in NFPA Code section 61, and other industries in NFPA Code sections 651–664. Collectors designed to reduce airborne dust account for more than 40 percent of all dust explosions. Other important processes are grinding and pulverizing, transporting powders, filing silos and containers (which produces powder), and the mixing and blending of powders.\n\nInvestigation of 200 dust explosions and fires, between 1980 to 2005, indicated \"approximately 100 fatalities and 600 injuries.\" In January 2003, a polyethylene powder explosion and fire at the West Pharmaceutical Services plant in Kinston, North Carolina resulted in the deaths of six workers and injuries to 38 others. In February 2008 an explosion of sugar dust rocked the Imperial Sugar Company's plant at Port Wentworth, Georgia, resulting in thirteen deaths.\n\nMaterials can be tested for the degree of flammability and combustibility in accordance with the German DIN 4102. DIN 4102, as well as its British cousin BS 476 include for testing of passive fire protection systems, as well as some of its constituent materials.\n\nThe following are the categories in order of degree of combustibility and flammability:\nA more recent industrial standard is the European EN 13501-1 - Fire classification of construction products and building elements - which roughly replaces A2 with A2/B, B1 with C, B2 with D/E and B3 with F.\n\nB3 or F rated materials may not be used in building unless combined with another material that reduces the flammability of those materials.\n\nA material's flash point is a metric of how easy it is to ignite the vapor of the material as it evaporates into the atmosphere. A lower flash point indicates higher flammability. Materials with flash points below are regulated in the United States by OSHA as potential workplace hazards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23439409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439409", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1987", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1987\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 1987 was the tenth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Vancouver, Canada, between 13 October 1987 and 17 October 1987, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Brian Mulroney.\n\nThe meeting was marked by a confrontation between most Commonwealth leaders, including conference chair Mulroney, and Britain's Margaret Thatcher over the issue of economic sanctions against South Africa with Thatcher opposing sanctions.\n"}
{"id": "33989838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33989838", "title": "Cuevana", "text": "Cuevana\n\nCuevana is an Argentine website that offers movies and television content in their original languages, with Spanish subtitles. The site was created in October 2009 and as of 2011 was one of the 20 most visited websites in Argentina with half a million visits daily.\n\nCuevana operates as a connecting hub that uses plugins to allow users to stream content. Cuevana claims not to store files itself, but makes it easy to reach content by linking to external online storage. This method of operation has created a strong debate on the matter of the legality of the operation.\n\nIn August 14, 2012, a download option was created, called DCuevana.\n\nAs of 2014, cuevana.tv distributed the software \"Cuevana Storm\" which, like Popcorn Time, operates as a torrent client that lets downloaders immediately watch a movie while simultaneously uploading it to others.\n"}
{"id": "15760961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15760961", "title": "Customary law in Australia", "text": "Customary law in Australia\n\nCustomary law in Australia relates to the systems and practices amongst Aboriginal Australians which have developed over time from accepted moral norms in Aboriginal societies, and which regulate human behaviour, mandate specific sanctions for non-compliance, and connect people with the land and with each other, through a system of relationships. Customary laws are passed on by word of mouth and are not codified (nor can they be easily codified). In addition, they are not singular throughout Australia — different language groups and clans have different concepts of customary law, and what applies within one group or region cannot be assumed to be universal.\n\nHistorically, customary law has not been recognised as part of the canon of Australian law. But, since the late twentieth century, the Australian Law Reform Commission (1986) and the Law Reform Commission of Western Australia (2005) have written extensive reports investigating the desirability of recognising the role of customary law in legal situations involving Aboriginal Australians. In the Northern Territory, some statutes and courts make explicit reference to customary law where such is useful in identifying relationships or social expectations. These changes have not been without controversy, especially in cases where customary law is either imprecise, or infringes upon human rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "32763744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32763744", "title": "Design and Artists Copyright Society", "text": "Design and Artists Copyright Society\n\nThe Design and Artists Copyright Society (DACS) is a UK not-for-profit rights management organisation that exists to collect and distribute royalties to visual artists. \n\nIt works to ensure that visual artists’ copyright and related rights are protected and that these rights are recognised both financially and morally. \n\nDACS was established in 1984 and since being founded, it has distributed £100 million in royalties to visual artists and artists' estates through its services. DACS retains a percentage of the royalties it collects and distributes on behalf of artists to cover its not-for-profit organisational costs. It represents 100,000 visual artists and artists’ estates worldwide through an international network of collecting societies. DACS is a member of CISAC (Confédération Internationale des Sociétés d´Auteurs et Compositeurs). \n\nDACS was founded in 1984 by a group of artists and lawyers who identified that there was a need for an organisation to manage visual artist’s copyright in the UK, to ensure that they were fairly remunerated and their rights respected. \n\nCopyright Licensing is the organisation’s longest running service where DACS acts as an agent on behalf of visual artists and their estates to manage requests to reproduce their work. Royalties are paid to artists and estates through this service four times a year. 25% of the monies collected are retained by DACS for administration costs.\n\nIn 2001, DACS launched a new collective licensing service for visual artists. Known as Payback, this service distributes a share of revenue generated through various UK collective licensing schemes back to visual artists. Visual artists whose work has been reproduced in UK publications and on certain UK television channels are entitled to a share of this revenue. Artists are required to submit a claim to DACS between January and May and royalties are then paid in the Autumn to successful claimants.\n\nOn 14 February 2006, and following a European Directive, visual artists in the UK benefited from the Artist's Resale Right (Droit de suite) for the first time. This Right entitles artists to a portion of the sale price when their work is resold through an auction house, art gallery or art dealer, however there are certain conditions which govern an artist’s entitlement to benefit from this Right. DACS collects resale royalties on behalf of its artist members and those that do not join another collecting society. The Artist's Resale Right was fully implemented in the UK on 1 January 2012 also entitling artist's heirs and beneficiaries to a resale royalty. DACS retains 15% of the royalties collected from UK sales. They do not retain anything for royalties collected from overseas sales.\n\nIn 2014, DACS launched its newest service called Artimage, which complements the organisation's Copyright Licensing service by making artists' images available for licensing via a dedicated website. \n\nDACS is governed by a board of directors. They include both artists and lawyers as well as other professionals who are responsible for the overall performance of the organisation. Mark Stephens (solicitor) CBE, of Howard Kennedy, has been Chair of the Board of Directors since 2011. \n\nDACS reintroduced Voting membership in 2014. All Voting members are eligible to attend DACS’ Annual General Meetings (AGMs) and vote on matters of the company, for example to appoint or remove a Board Director, to approve their financial documentation or other governance matters.\n"}
{"id": "50151629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50151629", "title": "Disarmament of the German Jews", "text": "Disarmament of the German Jews\n\nThe Disarmament of the German Jews started in 1933, initially limited to local areas. A major target was Berlin, where large-scale raids in search for weaponry took place. Starting in 1936, the Gestapo prohibited German police offices from giving firearms licenses to Jews. In November 1938, the \"Verordnung gegen den Waffenbesitz der Juden\" prohibited the possession of Firearms and bladed weapons by Jews.\n\nThe legal foundations that the National Socialists later used for the purpose of disarming the Jews were already laid during the Weimar Republic. Starting with the \"Reichsgesetz über Schusswaffen und Munition \"(Reich law on firearms and ammunition), enacted on 12 April 1928, weapon purchase permits were introduced, which only allowed \"authorized persons\" the purchase and possession of firearms. Mandatory registration of weapons was introduced, which gave the government the opportunity of accessing weapon owner and their weapons at any given time. Manufacture and sale of weapons was only permitted if authorized so. The purpose was to ensure that firearms were only issued to \"reliable individuals\". Starting in 1930, bladed weapons were also regulated. The carrying of weapons in public now required a weapons permit.\n\nImmediately following the „Machtergreifung“ in 1933, the weapon laws of the Weimar Republic were used to disarm Jews, or to use the excuse of \"searching for weapons\" as a justification for raids and searches of homes. Because the weapons law of 1928 gave the police the authority to issue or withdraw weapon permits, Jewish weapon owners were disarmed through warrants issued by the police. For instance, the president of the police of Breslau enacted an order on 21 April 1933 which stated that Jews had to give their weapons and shooting permits to the police immediately. After the Jewish population was judged as not to be trusted, no weapon permits were issued to them.\n\nThe weapons law was also used for searches of homes and raids. The preface for that was the allegation that the victims of these searches stored large amounts of weapons and ammunition. A prominent example is Albert Einstein, whose summer residence in Caputh, near the Schwielowsee was searched in spring 1933. The only item found there was a bread knife. Raids, for instance on 4 April 1933 at the Scheunenviertel in Berlin, also took place. Not only many weapons were found, but also a lot of publications that included criticism of the Third Reich. Sometimes, Jews without residence permits were also found and arrested.\n\nStarting in 1935, the Gestapo prevented the issue of weapon permits and weapon purchase permits to Jews. The police authorities were the executing authorities, and had to comply with the orders issued by the Gestapo. The self-defense of Jews was abolished and they were subjected to the arbitrariness and terror of the police authorities, without the need to introduce a new law for this.\n\nIn 1938, the national socialists reformed weapons law thoroughly. Today, the \"Waffengesetz\" of 18 March 1938 (RGBl I, 265) is sometimes seen as a relaxation of existing regulations, even though it solely benefited privileged members of the NSDAP and its associated organizations. The law stated that certain groups of NSDAP officials did not need any permit anymore for weapons possession. Amongst them were \"Unterführer\" of the NSDAP, starting from\" Ortsgruppenleiter\", the Sturmabteilung, the Schutzstaffel, the National Socialist Motor Corps and also the Hitler youth, starting at\" Bannführer\". The new weapons law also prohibited the possession of any weapons to certain groups of people, namely Gypsies and all individuals who lost their \"Civil Honors\" or who were under supervision of the police. The latter also included people convicted due to homosexuality.\n\nDirectly after the Kristallnacht, the possession of any weapons by Jews was prohibited through the \"Verordnung gegen den Waffenbesitz der Juden\", enacted on 11 November 1938 (RGBl. I, 1573).\n\nA contemporary report of the apostolic nuntius of Berlin to Eugenio Pacelli about the Kristallnacht stated: „Also, all weapons were taken from the Jews; and even though the purpose of that was altogether different, it was good, because the ideation of suicide must have been enormous in some.“\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50540176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50540176", "title": "European Judicial Network", "text": "European Judicial Network\n\nThe European Judicial Network (EJN) is a network of contact points within the EU designed to facilitate judicial cooperation across borders. With a focus on serious crime (such as organized crime, corruption, drug smuggling and terrorism), it helps form and maintain contacts between agencies in member states.\n\nThe Network was created by Joint Action 98/428 in 1998, to fulfil recommendation no. 21 of the Action Plan to Combat Organised Crime adopted by the Council of the European Union on 28 April 1997.\n\nA priority of the EJN is the dissemination of information to its citizens, judges and legal practitioners, primarily through its Web site. The EJN’s main functions are: Facilitating judicial cooperation among the Member States; travelling to meet the contact points of other State Members, as necessary; providing the local judicial authorities of their country with the necessary legal and practical information; providing the local judicial authorities of other member states the necessary legal and practical information; improving the coordination of the judicial cases. \n\nA member state’s Contact Point can identify relevant other Contact Points via the European Justice Atlas.\n\nThe secretariat of the EJN functions as an independent autonomous unit within the staff of Eurojust, based in The Hague in the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "43183814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43183814", "title": "Federal Telecommunications Institute", "text": "Federal Telecommunications Institute\n\nThe Federal Telecommunications Institute (abbreviated as IFT and incorrectly referred to as IFETEL) is an independent government agency of Mexico charged with the regulation of telecommunications and broadcasting services. It was formed on September 10, 2013, as part of larger reforms to Mexican telecom regulations, and replaced the Federal Telecommunications Commission (Cofetel).\n\nThe current President of the IFT is Gabriel Oswaldo Contreras Saldívar.\n\nOn August 8, 1996, President Ernesto Zedillo created Cofetel, which originally was based in the tower of the Secretariat of Communications and Transportation.\n\nIn 2013, President Enrique Peña Nieto created the IFT to replace Cofetel as part of the telecommunications reform package of the Pacto por México. The IFT is an autonomous federal agency that is responsible for the regulation of the use of spectrum, telecommunications and broadcasting networks and offerings, and access to infrastructure. IFT also regulates the awarding of concessions and permits for broadcast stations and promotes and protects competition in telecommunications.\n\nThrough an agreement with PROFECO, the IFT also handles user comments and complaints for communications services.\n\nThe IFT is headed by a board of seven commissioners, including a Chair. They are each nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate.\n\nThe sitting commissioners are:\n\nRed Compartida (Red Shared) is the official name of the network that will result from the Mexican Government's 2014-2016 effort to overhaul its telecommunications industry by introducing competition into the marketplace. If successful, the Red Compartida network will be the first fully wholesale mobile network deployed anywhere in the world.\n\nAmerica Movil, the company owned by Carlos Slim, Mexico's richest man, has long held a monopoly in the telecommunications marketplace in Mexico. In July 2014, it was reported in Forbes Magazine that Slim controlled 80% of Mexico’s landline market and 70% of the wireless market. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", Mexican consumers have long been complaining at the “high costs and spotty service” provided by Slim’s companies. Over the years, Slim has been accused of engaging in anti-competitive practices – for example, using his control over the telecommunications infrastructure to charge prohibitive connection fees to competitors.\n\nOn July 9, 2014, the Mexican Government passed wide-ranging telecommunications reforms, designed to abolish long-distance phone charges, make it easier for customers to switch phone companies, and broaden access to free-to-air television stations. In response, Slim announced that he would reduce his market share substantially, and announced plans to sell off America Movil assets worth up to 7 billion dollars.\n\nUnder the new laws, the Mexican telecommunications regulator was required to establish a wholesale-only wireless network — a \"carrier's carrier\" that will sell mobile-network capacity to all comers. In 2015, the regulator announced the Red Compartida initiative.\n\nThe Red Compartida network will be “wholesale only”. This means that the company which builds and operates the network will not be involved in providing mobile service to consumers. Instead, the operator will provide access to the network to mobile operators, who will in turn use the network capacity to provide a consumer mobile product. Access to the network for these operators will be sold to the highest bidder in regular auctions.\n\nThe advantage of a wholesale only network is that many new entrants can enter the Mexican consumer market at once. The cost of building a mobile network is prohibitive and requires billions of dollars in capital outlay. By providing the infrastructure through a wholesale only network, the cost of offering a new consumer service to Mexican customers will be significantly reduced.\n\nThe Mexican Government expects the construction of the wholesale network, and the resultant entry of new providers to the Mexican market to generate 13 billion dollars of Foreign Direct Investment over a three-year period.\n\nThe Red Compartida project received international recognition at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, in 2016. An award was given to Mexico for its efforts in the area of “Governmental Leadership.” According to Monica Aspe, Mexico’s sub-secretary for telecommunications and transport, receipt of recognition in this area was a landmark telecommunications development in her country. She explained that, in the past, “European countries and China were almost solely the recipients of this award.”\n\nOn the other hand, the giant US provider AT&T, which has in recent years invested 4.4 billion dollars in Mexico, was reported to be “particularly discomfited” with the project, especially since as an existing operator, they would be barred from taking part.\n\nThe Mexican Government requires that any bidder planning to construct the Red Compartida Network demonstrate that they have no ties whatever to any mobile service provider already operating in Mexico.\n\nAn announcement awarding the project to the successful bidder is expected in October 2016.\n\nIrish-American firm Rivada Networks has announced that it will bid to build the Red Compartida network. Several other companies are believed to be considering bids.\n"}
{"id": "1689639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1689639", "title": "First Family", "text": "First Family\n\nFirst Family is an unofficial title for the family of a republic's head of state. A First Family usually consists of: the head of state, the first spouse and their children.\n\nThe term \"Second Family\" is often used to refer to the deputy head of state, usually a vice-president, or, in some countries, the family of the prime minister, in deference to a first family or royal family. The spouse is called the \"Second Lady\" or \"Second Gentleman\".\n\nThe use of the term \"First Family\" to refer to the family of the President of the United States only came into widespread use during the Kennedy administration with the tremendous popularity of Vaughn Meader's 1962 comedy album, \"The First Family.\"\n\n\n\n\n\nThe First Family is also a collection of \"Australopithecus afarensis\" fossils discovered at site \"333\" at Hadar in Ethiopia, near the location of another famous \"A. afarensis\", Lucy. \"A. afarensis\" is believed to be the first habitual bipedal hominid and a direct ancestor of \"Homo sapiens\". This species lived between 3.9 million to 2.9 million years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "4175612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4175612", "title": "Food administration", "text": "Food administration\n\nA food safety agency or food administration is a kind of agency found in various countries and international organizations with responsibilities related to food, primarily with ensuring the safety of food sold or distributed to the population, and with ensuring that food sellers inform the population of the origins and health qualities and risks associated with food being sold.\n\n\n\nThe State Food and Drug Administration, the agency of the government of the Peoples Republic of China in charge of comprehensive supervision of the safety management of food, health food, and cosmetics, and the competent authority for drug regulation\n\nIn Singapore Food Administration in terms of Food safety is controlled for the Gastronomy in Singapore by the National Environment Agency (NEA). Goods which are imported/exported to the Little red dot are regulated/controlled by Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore (AVA).\n\nFood Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) is an autonomous body established under the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India. The organisation is responsible for protecting and promoting public health through the regulation and supervision of food safety. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24319594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24319594", "title": "Forum for Equality", "text": "Forum for Equality\n\nForum for Equality is a Louisiana-based statewide LGBT civil rights advocacy group that was founded in 1989. The major focus of this group is on the political process, in which it encourages members to participate through reminders of upcoming elections, campaigns promoting awareness of legislation that affects the LGBT community, and rallies to demonstrate popular support for LGBT civil rights. The group also works to educate the LGBT community in Louisiana about the issues that affect the community as a whole. The organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\nIn 2004, Forum for Equality filed a lawsuit, \"Forum for Equality v. New Orleans\", to overturn Amendment 1, a state level ballot initiative which amended Louisiana's constitution to define marriage as being exclusively heterosexual. The organization had pledged to file the suit should the initiative pass. After lower state courts ruled against the amendment, the Louisiana Supreme Court ultimately rejected the suit, claiming the voters in Louisiana had expressed their polls through the ballot box, and suggested that gay and lesbian couples should seek co-ownership of property, ignoring the other legal rights denied to gay and lesbian couples.\n\nForum For Equality filed a lawsuit on behalf of four couples on February 12, 2014, seeking recognition of same-sex marriages established in other jurisdictions. On March 18, Judge Feldman consolidated the cases with another case filed in January 2014 challenging the state's constitutional ban on same-sex marriage, \"Robicheaux v. George\" under the name \"Robicheaux v. Caldwell\". Oral arguments on motions for summary judgment were held on June 25, 2014. On September 3, Judge Feldman ruled for the defendants and upheld the state's constitutional ban on same-sex marriages. All parties asked the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit to set an expedited briefing schedule to allow an appeal to be heard alongside \"De Leon v. Perry\", a Texas case. The Fifth Circuit granted that request on September 25. The Fifth Circuit has scheduled oral argument in this case and in \"De Leon v. Perry\" for January 9, 2015. On November 20, the plaintiffs filed a petition asking the U.S. Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari before judgment, that is, to hear the case, now \"Robicheaux v. George\", without waiting for a decision from the Fifth Circuit. The state supported that request on December 2.\n\nIn 2008, the group attempted to convince Governor Bobby Jindal not to allow an Executive Order signed by former Governor Kathleen Blanco that protected LGBT employees from discrimination in Louisiana to lapse. However, the Governor stated that he did not feel renewal of the Executive Order was necessary.\n\nIn 2009, The Forum met with Louisiana's state Council on Marriage and the Family, a body appointed by conservative Republican Governor Jindal. The video presentation was intended to make the case for easing legal restrictions that bar LGBT families from adopting children in Louisiana. The final decision was to maintain the status quo, which the Forum considered to be a compromise. In effect, single LGBT people can adopt in Louisiana, however, couples cannot.\n\n"}
{"id": "32958341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32958341", "title": "German nationalism in Austria", "text": "German nationalism in Austria\n\nGerman nationalism () is a political ideology and historical current in Austrian politics. It arose in the 19th century as a nationalist movement amongst the German-speaking population of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. It favours close ties with Germany, which it views as the nation-state for all ethnic Germans, and the possibility of the incorporation of Austria into a Greater Germany.\n\nOver the course of Austrian history, from the Austrian Empire, to Austria-Hungary, and the First and the Second Austrian Republics, several political parties and groups have expressed pan-German nationalist sentiment. National liberal and pan-Germanist parties have been termed the \"Third Camp\" () of Austrian politics, as they have traditionally been ranked behind mainstream Catholic conservatives and socialists. The Freedom Party of Austria, a far-right political party with representation in the Austrian parliament, has pan-Germanist roots. After the Second World War, both pan-Germanism and the idea of political union with Germany were discredited by their association with Nazism, and by the rising tide of a civic Austrian national identity.\n\nWithin the context of rising ethnic nationalism during the 19th century in the territories of the multi-ethnic Austrian Empire, the \"German National Movement\" () sought the creation of a Greater Germany, along with the implementation of anti-semitic and anti-clerical policies, in an attempt to entrench the German ethnic identity. Starting with the revolutions of 1848, many ethnic groups under imperial rule, including the Serbs, Czechs, Italians, Croats, Slovenes, and Poles, amongst others, demanded political, economic, and cultural equality. Traditionally, the German-speaking population of the Empire enjoyed societal privileges dating back to the reign of Empress Maria Theresa, and that of her son, Joseph II. German was considered the \"lingua franca\" of the Empire, and Empire's elite consisted primarily of German-speakers. The struggle between the many ethnic groups of the Empire and German-speakers defined the social and political landscape of the Empire from the 1870s, after the Compromise of 1867, which granted renewed sovereignty to the Kingdom of Hungary, until the dissolution of the Empire after the First World War. \n\nAfter the Austrian defeat in the Battle of Königgrätz of 1866, and the unification of what was then known as \"Lesser Germany\" under Prussian stewardship in 1871, the German Austrians in the Austro-Hungarian Empire felt that they had wrongly been excluded from the German nation-state, whilst other ethnicities within the Empire were tearing at its fabric. Conflict between Germans and Czechs grew particularly tense in 1879, when minister-president Viscount Taaffe did not include the German-Liberal Party () in the government of Cisleithania. This party was considered the main representative of the German-speaking middle class, and as such, the German National Movement went on to accuse the Party of not fighting for the rights of German-speakers within the Empire. The \"German School League\" () was formed in 1880 to protect German-language schools in parts of the Empire where German speakers were a minority. It promoted the establishment of German-language schools in communities where public funding was used for non-German schools.\n\nA consortium of German nationalist groups and intellectuals published the Linz Program in 1882, which demanded the recognition of German predominance in the Empire, along with the complete Germanisation of the Empire. This manifesto was signed by the radical German nationalist Georg von Schönerer, Vienna's populist, pro-Catholic, and royalist mayor Karl Lueger, and the Jewish social democrat Victor Adler. The diverse signatories of the Linz manifesto split ideologically after Schönerer revised it to add an \"Aryan paragraph\" in 1885.\n\nSchönerer founded the \"German-National Association\" (Deutschnationaler Verein), and later, in 1891, the \"Pan-German Society\". He demanded the annexation of all German-speaking territories of Austria-Hungary to the Prussian-led German Empire and rejected any form of Austrian pan-ethnic identity. His radical racist German nationalism was especially popular amongst the well-educated intelligentsia: professors, grammar school teachers, and students. School administrations tried to counteract these sentiments by encouraging civic pride, along with a \"cult of personality\" around the Emperor, but these efforts were largely unsuccessful. Vienna mayor Karl Lueger even tried to dismiss all \"Schönerians\" from city school administrations, but this too failed. National-minded students rather identified with the Prussian-led German Empire than with the multiethnic Dual Monarchy. Many idolised the German chancellor Otto von Bismarck, victor in the Battle of Königgrätz. \n\nMembers of the pan-German movement wore blue cornflowers, known to be the favourite flower of German Emperor William I, in their buttonholes, along with cockades in the German national colours (black, red, and yellow). Both symbols were temporarily banned in Austrian schools. Like Schönerer, many Austrians hoped for an \"Anschluss\" with Germany. However, although many Austrians accepted the ideas of the various pan-German movements and felt part of the German nation, they accepted the existence of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, were loyal to the Habsburg dynasty, and wanted to preserve the sovereignty of Austria.\n\nGerman nationalists protested vehemently against minister-president Kasimir Count Badeni's language decree of 1897, which made German and Czech co-official languages in Bohemia and required new government officials to be fluent in both languages. This meant in practice that the civil service would almost exclusively hire Czechs, because most educated Czechs knew German, but not the other way around. The support of ultramontane Catholic politicians and clergy for this reform triggered the launch of the \"Away from Rome\" () movement, which was initiated by supporters of Schönerer and called on \"German\" Christians to leave the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nFrom the 1880s, the pan-Germanist movement was fragmented into several splinter parties and factions. The most radical was the German Workers' Party, formed in 1903, which later transformed into the Austrian wing of the Nazi Party. Other pan-Germanist parties that contested elections during the first decade of the 20th century include the German People's Party and the German Radical Party. A broad coalition of all ethnic German national and liberal political parties known as the \"Deutscher Nationalverband\" (lit. German National Association) was formed to contest the 1911 election to the Cisleithanian Imperial Council. It went on to gain the most seats in lower house of the Council, the House of Deputies (), replacing the previously dominant Christian Social Party. Despite this victory, the German National Association was always a very loose coalition with little unity amongst its ranks, and collapsed in 1917 at the height of First World War. It disintegrated into seventeen scattered German liberal and national parties. This disintegration, combined with dissolution of Austria-Hungary at the end of the First World War, led to the total fragmentation of pan-Germanist movement.\n\nAfter the end of the First World War, which saw the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, German-speaking parts of the former Empire established a new republic under the name \"German Austria\" (). The republic was proclaimed on the principle of self-determination, which had been enshrined within American president Woodrow Wilson's \"Fourteen Points\". A provisional national assembly was convened on 11 November, at which the Republic of German Austria was proclaimed. The assembly drafted a constitution that stated that \"German Austria is a democratic republic\" (Article 1) and \"German Austria is a component of the German Republic\" (Article 2). This phrase referenced the establishment of the Weimar Republic in the former lands of the German Empire, and intended to unite German-speaking Austrians with the German nation-state, completing the Greater Germany plan. Plebiscites held in Tyrol and Salzburg yielded majorities of 98% and 99% respectively in favour of unification with Germany.\n\nDespite this, the victors of the First World War, who drafted the Treaty of Versailles and the Saint-Germain-en-Laye, strictly forbid any attempt by German Austria to unify with Germany. They also gave some lands that had been claimed by German Austria to newly formed nation-states. An example of this was the giving of the provinces of German Bohemia and the Sudetenland to the Czecho-Slovak Republic. These lands, having German-speaking majorities, were prevented from being within their own nation-state. Instead, they were trapped in the nation-states of other ethnicities. This grievance would play a fundamental part in the rise of pan-Germanism during the Interwar period. Karl Renner, a member of the Social Democratic Workers' Party, served as chancellor of German Austria. Renner himself was a proponent of the idea of \"Greater Germany\", and penned the unofficial anthem \"Deutschösterreich, du herrliches Land\" (\"German Austria, you wonderful country\"). Renner was born in southern Moravia, which was one of the lands claimed by German Austria, but instead given to the Czecho-Slovak Republic. Despite his background, however, he signed the Treaty of Saint-Germain on 10 September 1919, which established the Allied-drawn borders of the new Austrian republic, and formally forbid any attempt to unify the German-speaking lands of the former Austria-Hungary with Germany. The name \"German Austria\" was changed to \"Austria\", removing any hint of pan-Germanist sentiment from the name of the state. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats would not forget their pan-Germanist roots. To them, the Weimar Republic was regarded with \"exaggerated sympathy\", whilst the Czecho-Slovak Republic was viewed with \"exaggerated suspicion\".\n\nDuring the First Austrian Republic, pan-Germanists were represented by the Greater German People's Party and the agrarian Landbund. Although initially influential, these two groups soon lost most of their voters to the Christian Social Party and the Social Democratic Party. Both the Christian Socials and the Social Democrats accepted that unification between Austria and Germany was forbidden by the Treaty of Saint-Germain. A conflict would develop, however, between those who supported an Austrian national identity, such as the Christian Socials, and those rooted in German nationalism, such as the Social Democrats.\n\nOne of the foundational problems of the First Republic was that those who had supported the concept of a democratic republic from the German Austria period onward, such as the Social Democrats, did not consider themselves \"Austrian\", but instead were German nationalists. Those who supported an Austrian national identity, an Austria without the word \"German\" attached, were conservative and largely undemocratic in persuasion: former Imperial bureaucrats, army officers, priests, aristocrats, and affiliated with the Christian Social Party. In the words of historian A. J. P. Taylor, \"The democrats were not 'Austrian'; the 'Austrians' were not democrats.\" These two groups, the German nationalist democrats, and the Austrian nationalist conservatives, would squabble throughout the first decade of the First Republic. Ultimately, the Austrian nationalist faction would overthrow the democratic republic in 1934 and establish a regime rooted in \"Austrofascism\" under the protection of Fascist Italy.\n\nWhile most of right-wing \"Heimwehren\" paramilitary groups active during the First Republic were rooted in Austrian nationalism, and either affiliated with the conservative Christian Socials, or inspired by Italian Fascism, there was also a German nationalist faction. This faction was most notable within the Styrian \"Heimatschutz\" (\"homeland protection\"). Its leader, Walter Pfrimer, attempted a putsch against a Christian Social government in September 1931. The putsch was directly modelled on the Benito Mussolini's March on Rome, but failed almost instantly due to lack of support from other \"Heimwehr\" groups. Pfrimer subsequently founded the \"German \"Heimatschutz\"\", which would later merge into the Nazi Party.\n\nThe idea of an \"Anschluss\" (union between Austria and Germany to form a Greater Germany), was one of the principle ideas of the Austrian branch of the National Socialist (Nazi) Party. Nazism can be seen as descended from the radical branches of the pan-Germanist movement. In 1933, the Nazis and the Greater German People's Party formed a joint working-group, and eventually merged. During the period while the Nazi Party and its symbols were banned in Austria, from 1933 to 1938, Austrian Nazis resumed the earlier pan-Germanist tradition of wearing a blue cornflower in their buttonhole.\n\nThe Nazis firmly fought the Austrofascist regime of chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, and orchestrated his assassination. They continued this battle against his successor, Kurt Schuschnigg. Austrofacism was strongly supported by Benito Mussolini, leader of Fascist Italy. Mussolini's support for an independent Austria can be seen in a discussion he had with Prince Ernst Rüdiger Starhemberg, an important Austrian nationalist and Heimwehr leader. He said that \"an Anschluss with Germany must never be permitted ... Austria is necessary to the maintenance of Europe ... the day that Austria falls and is swallowed up by Germany will mark the beginning of European chaos.\" The Austrofascist party, Fatherland Front, would echo the sentiments of Mussolini, and continue to struggle for an independent Austria. Nazis in both Germany and Austria intended that the German Reich would quickly annex Austria, the homeland of its leader, Adolf Hitler. They attempted to bribe many low-ranking Heimwehr leaders, and also attempted to bring Starhemberg into their fold, in effect merging the Heimwehr with the Nazi Freikorps. Gregor Strasser, an early, prominent Nazi figure, was charged with this effort. When Starhemberg, a fervent believer in an independent Austria, rejected his merger proposal, Strasser said \"Don't talk to me about Austria. There is no Austria ... there was once a living corpse which called itself Austria ... that this Austria collapsed in 1918 was a blessing ... particularly for the German people, who were thereby given the chance to create a Greater Germany.\"\n\nAfter this, tensions between the Nazis and Austrofascists worsened, culminating in the July Putsch of 1934, when Nazis attempted to overthrow the government. Whilst they managed to assassinate chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, the putsch was quickly crushed by the police, army, and Heimwehren. In the aftermath of the putsch, conflict between the Social Democrats and the ruling Austrofascists led to the Austrian Civil War later in the year. After their defeat, the Social Democratic Party was outlawed entirely. This, in tandem with a continued a campaign of violence and propaganda by the Nazis, destabilised the Austrofascist regime, and rallied many to support the idea of \"Anschluss\". \n\nThe Nazi campaign was ultimately successful, and Hitler would go on to annex Austria in 1938 with the \"Anschluss\". Hitler's journey through his home country Austria became a triumphal tour that reached its climax in Vienna on 15 March 1938, when around 200,000 cheering German Austrians gathered around the \"Heldenplatz\" (Square of Heroes) to hear Hitler say that \"The oldest eastern province of the German people shall be, from this point on, the newest bastion of the German Reich\" followed by his \"greatest accomplishment\" (completing the annexing of Austria to form a Greater German Reich) by saying: \"As leader and chancellor of the German nation and Reich I announce to German history now the entry of my homeland into the German Reich.\" After the \"Anschluss\", Hitler remarked as a personal note: \"I, myself, as Führer and Chancellor, will be happy to walk on the soil of the country that is my home as a free German citizen.\"\n\nHitler responded to the foreign press regarding the \"Anschluss\" by saying: \"Certain foreign newspapers have said that we fell on Austria with brutal methods. I can only say: even in death they cannot stop lying. I have in the course of my political struggle won much love from my people, but when I crossed the former frontier (into Austria) there met me such a stream of love as I have never experienced. Not as tyrants have we come, but as liberators.\"\n\nFollowing the \"Anschluss\", the historical aim of the German nationalists who supported the union between Austria and Germany was completed. The pan-Germanists were then fully absorbed into the Nazi Party (NSDAP).\n\nAfter the end of the Second World War, when Austria was re-established as an independent state, the German nationalist movement was discredited because of its links to the former Nazi regime. The dominant parties of the new republic were the Christian conservative Austrian People's Party and the Socialist Party. Both promoted Austrian independence, and considered the idea of a \"Greater Germany\" an anachronism. All former members of the Nazi party were banned from any political activity, and disenfranchised. The pan-Germanist and liberal \"Third Camp\" was later revived in the form of the Federation of Independents (), which fought de-Nazification laws imposed by the Allies, and represented the interests of former Nazis, Wehrmacht, and SS soldiers. In 1956, the Federation was transformed into the Freedom Party of Austria. In the 1950s and 1960s, the German nationalist movement, represented by the Freedom Party and its affiliated organisations, was very active in universities, where the \"Burschenschaften\", a type of student fraternity, helped spread German nationalist and liberal views. Inside the Freedom Party, the liberal wing grew to overtake the pan-Germanist wing, and Austrian patriotism was gradually incorporated into the party's ideology. During Norbert Steger's party leadership during 1980–1986, and the Freedom Party's participation in a coalition government with the Social Democrats, the pan-Germanist faction was weakened further.\n\nBy contrast, Jörg Haider's assumption of party leadership in 1986 was considered a triumph by the German nationalist faction. However, Haider's right-wing populism did not stress pan-Germanist traditions, as doing so would have cost votes. In 1987, only six percent of Austrian citizens identified themselves as \"Germans\". While Haider had branded Austrian national identity as an ideological construct, going so far to refer to it as a \"monstrosity\" \"()\" in 1988, he launched the \"Austria First\" petition in 1993, and claimed two years later that the Freedom Party was a \"classical Austrian patriotic party\", expressly renouncing his earlier \"monstrosity\" statement. The influence of German nationalism was still present, however, and could be seen in hostile actions against Slavic minorities in Austria, such as in conflicts over bilingual road sign with the Carinthian Slovenes, along with hostility to immigration and European integration. Traditional Greater German ideas have therefore been replaced by a German-Austrian concept (i.e. only considering Austrians of German origin and tongue as \"real\" Austrians). This may be summarised as an \"amalgamation of traditional German nationalism with Austrian patriotism\".\n\nPresently, the pan-Germanist wing is only a minor faction within the Freedom Party. In 2008, fewer than seventeen percent of the Freedom Party's voters questioned the existence of a unique Austrian national identity. German nationalists, including Andreas Mölzer and Martin Graf, now refer to themselves as \"cultural Germans\" (\"Kulturdeutsche\"), and stress the importance of their identity as ethnic Germans, in contrast to the distinct Austrian national identity. In 2006, FPÖ members of parliament reaffirmed the party's root in the pan-Germanist tradition, at least symbolically, by wearing blue cornflowers in their buttonholes, along with ribbons in Austria's national colours (red and white), during the initial meeting of the National Council. This caused controversy, as the media interpreted the flower as a former Nazi symbol.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "526158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=526158", "title": "Government Legal Department", "text": "Government Legal Department\n\nThe Government Legal Department (previously called the Treasury Solicitor's Department until 2015) is the largest in-house legal organisation in the United Kingdom's Government Legal Service.\n\nThe Department is headed by the Treasury Solicitor. This office goes back several centuries. The office was enshrined in law by the Treasury Solicitor Act 1876, which established the Treasury Solicitor as a corporation sole (an office with perpetual succession). Employees of the department exercise legal powers which are vested in the corporation sole.\n\nThe department is a non-ministerial government department and executive agency. The Treasury Solicitor reports to the Attorney General for England and Wales. The department employs more than 1,400 solicitors and barristers to provide advice and legal representation on a huge range of issues to many government departments.\n\nThe Department was historically known as the Treasury Solicitor's Department, but changed name to the Government Legal Department on 1 April 2015. The new name reflects a \"significant period of change\", which saw the department double in size to 2,000 staff.\n\nThe head of the department combines the ancient office of Queen's Proctor (or King's Proctor) with that of Treasury Solicitor. He has the formal title of Her Majesty's Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor. Currently, the office is held by Jonathan Jones. He is also the Chief Executive of the department as an executive agency.\n\nThe department is the authorised address for service of proceedings on most government departments, by virtue of the list published under the Crown Proceedings Act 1947.\n\nIn England (with the exception of Lancashire, Manchester and Cornwall, where the function is delegated to Farrer & Co), the Treasury Solicitor is the Crown's nominee for the collection and disposition of ownerless property (\"bona vacantia\"). This typically comprises the assets of dissolved companies and the estates of persons who die intestate and with no known kin.\n\nThe office of King's (or Queen's) Proctor is ancient; it also came to be known as HM Procurator General. The following were King's or Queen's Proctor after 1660:\n\n\nHistorically, there were two solicitors in the Treasury. The first (The Solicitor for Negotiating and Looking after the Affairs of the Treasury), which existed alone until 1696, had become a sinecure by 1744, and perhaps as early as 1716; from the late 18th century the office included a salary of £200 a year. It was abolished in 1800. A second Treasury Solicitor, the precursor of the modern office, was established in 1696 and was assigned all the legal business undertaken in Westminster Hall; as the first Solicitor became a sinecure, the second Solicitor became the only one responsible for legal business. By 1786, its office-holder was carrying out legal work for other secretaries of state and the Attorney-General, and in the early nineteenth century was employed by other government departments as well. From 1794, the Solicitor was also barred from running their own private practice. The salary began at £500, increased to £1,000 in 1755 and then to £2,000 in 1794; until the 1830s, the Solicitor also charged fees for work done in departments outside the Treasury, but these were then abolished and he received an allowance of £850 in addition to his salary. The whole salary was fixed at £2,000 in 1851, and then increased to £2,500 in 1872. The following were Treasury Solicitors after 1660.\n\n\n\nIn 1876, Augustus Keppel Stephenson, the Treasury Solicitor, was appointed Queen's Proctor and Procurator General; since then, the offices of Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor have been held together. By 1971, the office came with a salary of £14,000 a year. The following have been jointly HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "144570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144570", "title": "History of the Constitution of the United Kingdom", "text": "History of the Constitution of the United Kingdom\n\nThe Constitution of the United Kingdom has evolved over a long period of time beginning in the predecessor states to the United Kingdom and continuing to the present day. The relative stability of the British polity over centuries, progressing without a revolution or regime change that lasted, has obviated the need to write a constitution from first principles, in contrast to many other countries. What Britain has instead is an accumulation of various statutes, judicial precedents, convention, treaties and other sources which collectively can be referred to as the British Constitution. It is thus more accurate to describe Britain's constitution as an ‘uncodified’ constitution, rather than an ‘unwritten’ one.\n\nAlthough there is no definitive list of constitutional statutes, there are certain statutes that are significant in the history of the Constitution of the United Kingdom. Some have been repealed, several have been amended and remain in statute, while others are current legislation as originally enacted. None are entrenched.\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom the fifth century AD, north Britain was divided into a series of petty kingdoms. Ferocious Viking raids beginning in AD 793 may have speeded up a long-term process of gaelicisation of the Pictish kingdoms, which adopted Gaelic language and customs. There was also a merger of the Gaelic and Pictish kingdoms. This culminated in the rise of Cínaed mac Ailpín (Kenneth MacAlpin) as \"king of the Picts\" in the 840s (traditionally dated to 843), which brought to power the House of Alpin. When he died as king of the combined kingdom in 900 one of his successors, Domnall II (Donald II), was the first man to be called \"rí Alban\" (King of Alba). The term Scotia would increasingly be used to describe the heartland of these kings, north of the River Forth, and eventually the entire area controlled by its kings would be referred to as Scotland. The long reign (900–942/3) of Donald's successor Causantín (Constantine II) is often regarded as the key to formation of the Kingdom of Alba/Scotland, and he was later credited with bringing Scottish Christianity into conformity with the Catholic Church.\n\nMáel Coluim I (Malcolm I) (reigned c. 943–954) annexed Strathclyde, over which the kings of Alba had probably exercised some authority since the later ninth century. The reign of David I has been characterised as a \"Davidian Revolution\", in which he introduced a system of feudal land tenure, established the first royal burghs in Scotland and the first recorded Scottish coinage, and continued a process of religious and legal reforms.\n\nThe unified kingdom of Alba retained some of the ritual aspects of Pictish and Scottish kingship. These can be seen in the elaborate ritual coronation at the Stone of Scone at Scone Abbey.\n\nWhile the Scottish monarchy in the Middle Ages was a largely itinerant institution, Scone remained one of its most important locations, with royal castles at Stirling and Perth becoming significant in the later Middle Ages before Edinburgh developed as a capital city in the second half of the fifteenth century.\n\nThe Crown remained the most important element of government, despite the many royal minorities. In the late Middle Ages, it saw much of the aggrandisement associated with the New Monarchs elsewhere in Europe. Theories of constitutional monarchy and resistance were articulated by Scots, particularly George Buchanan, in the sixteenth century, but James VI of Scotland advanced the theory of the divine right of kings, and these debates were restated in subsequent reigns and crises. The court remained at the centre of political life, and in the sixteenth century emerged as a major centre of display and artistic patronage, until it was effectively dissolved with the Union of the Crowns in 1603.\n\nThe Scottish Crown adopted the conventional offices of western European courts, including High Steward, Chamberlain, Lord High Constable, Earl Marischal and Lord Chancellor. The King's Council emerged as a full-time body in the fifteenth century, increasingly dominated by laymen and critical to the administration of justice. The Privy Council, which developed in the mid-sixteenth century, and the great offices of state, including the chancellor, secretary and treasurer, remained central to the administration of the government, even after the departure of the Stuart monarchs to rule in England from 1603. However, it was often sidelined and was abolished after the Acts of Union 1707, with rule direct from London.\n\nThe Parliament of Scotland also emerged as a major legal institution, gaining an oversight of taxation and policy. By the end of the Middle Ages it was sitting almost every year, partly because of the frequent royal minorities and regencies of the period, which may have prevented it from being sidelined by the monarchy. In the early modern era, Parliament was also vital to the running of the country, providing laws and taxation, but it had fluctuating fortunes and was never as central to the national life as its counterpart in England.\n\nIn the early period the kings of the Scots depended on the great lords of the mormaers (later earls) and toísechs (later thanes), but from the reign of David I, sheriffdoms were introduced, which allowed more direct control and gradually limited the power of the major lordships. In the seventeenth century the creation of justices of the peace and the Commissioner of Supply helped to increase the effectiveness of local government. The continued existence of courts baron and introduction of kirk sessions helped consolidate the power of local lairds.\n\nThe Principality of Wales existed between 1216 and 1536, encompassing two-thirds of modern Wales during its height between 1267 and 1277. For most of its history it was \"annexed and united\" to the English Crown. However, for a few generations, specifically the period from its foundation in 1216 to Edward I's completion of the conquest of Wales in 1284, it was \"de facto\" independent under a Welsh Prince of Wales, albeit one who swore fealty to the King of England.\n\nCyfraith Hywel, also known as Welsh law, was the system of law practised in medieval Wales before its final conquest by England. Subsequently, the Welsh law's criminal codes were superseded by the Statute of Rhuddlan in AD 1284 and its civil codes by Henry VIII's series of Laws in Wales Acts between 1535 and 1542.\n\nThe Laws in Wales Acts formally incorporated all of Wales within the Kingdom of England. There has been no geographical or constitutional basis for describing any of the territory of Wales as a principality since then, although the term has occasionally been used in an informal sense to describe the country, and in relation to the honorary title of Prince of Wales.\n\nThe Encyclopaedia of Wales notes that the Council of Wales and the Marches was created by Edward IV in 1471 as a household institution to manage the Prince of Wales's lands and finances. In 1473 it was enlarged and given the additional duty of maintaining law and order in the Principality and the Marches of Wales. Its meetings appear to have been intermittent, but it was revived by Henry VII for his heir, Prince Arthur. The Council was placed on a statutory basis in 1543 and played a central role in co-ordinating law and administration. It declined in the early 17th century and was abolished by Parliament in 1641. It was revived at the Restoration before being finally abolished in 1689.\n\nFrom 1689 to 1948 there was no differentiation between the government of England and government in Wales. All laws relating to England included Wales and Wales was considered by the British Government as an indivisible part of England within the United Kingdom. The first piece of legislation to relate specifically to Wales was the Sunday Closing (Wales) Act 1881. A further exception was the Welsh Church Act 1914, which disestablished the Church in Wales (which had formerly been part of the Church of England) in 1920.\n\nIn 1948 the practice was established that all laws passed in the Parliament of the United Kingdom were designated as applicable to either \"England and Wales\" or \"Scotland\", thus returning a legal identity to Wales which had not existed for hundreds of years following the Act of Union with Scotland in 1707. Also in 1948 a new Council for Wales was established as a parliamentary committee. In 1964 the Welsh Office was established, based in London, to oversee and recommend improvements to the application of laws in Wales. This situation would continue until the devolution of government in Wales and the establishment of the autonomous National Assembly for Wales in 1998.\n\nThe Kingdom of England was formed in the mid 9th Century; for example, Alfred the Great issued laws as \"King of the West Saxons\", and what is now recognised as England came about in 927 AD when the last of the Heptarchy kingdoms fell under the rule of the \"King of the English\", Athelstan. On 14 October 1066, King Harold II of England was killed while leading his men in the Battle of Hastings against Duke William of Normandy. The event completely changed the course of English history. Until 1066, England was ruled by monarchs that were elected by the \"witan\", (meaning \"wise\"). There were various elements of democracy at a local level too, known as folkmoot.\n\nHenry I of England (c. 1068 – 1 December 1135) was king from 1100 to 1135, ruling through the Curia regis. When he ascended to the throne he granted the Charter of Liberties, a series of decrees and assurances to the barons. Probably the most important statement in the charter is at the beginning, where the king admits \"that by the mercy of God and the common counsel of the barons of the whole kingdom of England I have been crowned king of said kingdom\". This represented a step away from absolute rule; the king had recognised that the right to rule came not only from God but also from the common counsel of the barons.\n\nKing John (24 December 1167 – 19 October 1216) was King of England from 1199 to 1216. He was the youngest brother of Richard I. His reign was fraught with conflicts; there was conflict between England and France, between England and the Pope and between the King and the barons. Eventually the barons forced John to sign the Magna Carta, a practical solution to the political crisis he faced in 1215, which established for the first time the principle that everybody, including the king, was subject to the law.\n\nHenry III (1 October 1207 – 16 November 1272) succeeded his father John. Henry was only nine years of age when he became king and so the country was ruled by regents until Henry reached the age of 20. Under pressure from the barons, led by Simon de Montfort, 6th Earl of Leicester, Henry had to accept constitutional limitations on the monarchy placed by Provisions of Oxford and Provisions of Westminster and the existence of the first representative English Parliament.\n\nThe Ordinances of 1311 were a series of regulations imposed on King Edward II by the Lords and higher clergy to restrict the power of the king.\n\nLater in the 14th century, during the reign of Richard II, there was an uprising known as the Peasants' Revolt (1381). The rebels came very close to their demands (such as fair rents and the abolition of serfdom) being granted by the king, but at the end the protesters were tricked out of such gains. The revolt remains as an important moment in history, but it failed to contribute to the written body of the constitution.\n\nThe first Act of Supremacy (1534) made King Henry VIII the \"supreme head\" of the Church of England. Henry VIII died in 1547, leaving three children as potential heirs.\n\nThe second Act of Supremacy (1559) restored these powers over the church to Elizabeth I, reversing normalising legislation passed during the reign of her sister Mary I, although the title Elizabeth gained was \"Supreme Governor of the Church of England\" rather than \"supreme head\", so as not to imply that she had control over the church's doctrine, or, that the Monarch was usurping the primacy of Jesus. The Act also required all office-holders, including the clergy, to take an oath of allegiance acknowledging the Queen as the supreme governor of the Church of England.\n\nThe monarchy had to get the consent of Parliament in all issues, but with the threat of war looming from Spain, Parliament showed great loyalty toward Queen Elizabeth, who was a strong leader. However, after the Spanish Armada was defeated in 1588, Parliament felt safer and thus it decreased its loyalty to the monarchy.\n\nParliament consisted of two levels of administration: the House of Lords that was made up of the influential peers of the realm and Lords Spiritual, and the House of Commons, which consisted of representative members of the aristocracy and the middle-class.\n\nThe House of Commons had grown sharply, doubling in size due to the prosperity of the middle-class during that time. There were a number of vocal Puritans in the House of Commons (although the extent to which they influenced the Commons is disputed, Sir John Neale identified a unified bloc of 43 members, whereas revisionists have suggested that this is an exaggeration) who began asking for more rights for the Puritans, but Elizabeth I was strong enough to ignore their demands. James I would later have problems with them.\n\nJohn Aylmer, a Greek scholar, saw an immediate resemblance of the Tudor constitution to that of the classical republic of Sparta. Geoffrey Elton, who wrote \"The Tudor Constitution\", gave hearty approval to Aylmer's conclusions. It was the Greek scholars, such as Aylmer, that popularised the Greek classical political terminology and influenced English and later British constitutionalist thought. They brought forward the idea of mixed government from Classical antiquity and applied it to their form of government.\n\nWhen Queen Elizabeth I died in 1603 without issue, she was succeeded by her cousin James VI of Scotland, the son of Mary, Queen of Scots, and he became King James I of England. This was a major step towards creating a single British state, although the Kingdom of Great Britain did not come about until a hundred years later.\n\nJames VI faced a fractious religious England since it contained Anglicans (of the Church of England), Puritans, Separatists (who wanted to break from the Church of England), and also many Roman Catholics, although many did not declare their continuing allegiance to Rome, which was the cause of much mistrust.\n\nJames VI was a believer in the Divine Right of Kings, which stated that Kings were chosen by God and should therefore be absolute and answerable only to God. This was corroborated by his Presbyterian belief in predestination, and such a birthright as kingship made him almost explicitly a part of the elect. Though he was Presbyterian (Calvinist, Huguenot, Puritan), he was against the Presbyterian idea of allowing the congregation (people) to elect their presbyters (church officials) since it undermined his absolutism (according to the Divine Right). Thus he was often at odds with the Puritans, who were English Presbyterians.\n\nHe did concede to the Puritans by commissioning the \"King James Bible\", an English language translation and interpretation of the Bible.\n\nThen James VI began fighting with the Roman Catholics, but eventually gave them rights (after his secretly Catholic wife probably persuaded him to), exempting them from having to pay tithes to the Anglican Church, but this caused a great decrease in Anglican Church revenue, so he quickly took those rights away. The actions of King James VI were unpopular during his reign.\n\nJames was succeeded by his son who became Charles I in 1625. Charles I believed in the Divine Right of Kings, like his father, and thus continued to fight with parliament.\n\nParliament's main power at this time was its control of the taxes. Parliament demanded more power over the taxes. Traditionally, Parliament had voted at the beginning of a King's reign on the amount allowed for a King's Tonnage and Poundage, the customs duties (taxes on imported goods like wool and wine) that made up a large portion of a king's annual income. Now Parliament wanted to re-evaluate these taxes annually, which would give it more control over the king. James I resisted this abrogation of his 'Divine Right' and dealt with the situation by dissolving Parliament. Charles I did the same at first and later just ignored its annual evaluations.\n\nCharles acquired much of his money with forced loans from the rich. He also received a lot of money through taxes. One important tax that Charles collected was the Ship Money tax that required the counties bordering the sea to fund a navy to protect the English coastline. The coastal counties were unhappy with it since Charles was collecting the Ship Money tax during a time of peace and since he wasn't using it really to fund the navy. To get even more money, Charles placed the Ship Money tax on the interior counties as well - which angered the English people, because now Charles was creating new taxes without the consent of the Parliament (which was against the (unwritten) law). A London MP named John Hampden refused to pay this \"new,\" interior Ship Money tax, so he was tried for a crime by Charles I and was convicted with a vote of 7 to 5. This meant that 5 of 12 jurors were against their king, which did not look good or bode well for Charles I.\n\nBut Charles I was at war with France and Spain, and this war was costing a lot of money; he was forced to call upon Parliament (1629) to raise new taxes for him. Parliament would not grant Charles new taxes (more money) until he had signed the Petition of Rights that established conditions in which Charles had to submit to the law of the Parliament:\n\n\nAfter Charles got the taxes from Parliament (1629), he dissolved Parliament and broke the tenets of the Petition of Rights which, under the divine right theory, he considered void.\n\nWilliam Laud and Thomas Wentworth were appointed to fill the void that the Duke of Buckingham left.\n\nOn top of the wars England had with France and with Spain (both caused by the Duke of Buckingham), Charles I and William Laud (the Archbishop of Canterbury) began a war with Scotland in an attempt to convert Scotland to the Church of England (the Anglican Church). This was called the Bishops' War (1639–1640) and it had two major parts: The first Bishops' War (1639) ended in a truce. The second Bishops' War, the following year, began with the a Scottish invasion of England in which the Scottish defeated the English and remained stationed in England until their issues were solved. To get the Scottish out, Charles I signed the Treaty of Ripon (1640), which required England to pay an indemnity of £850 for each day that the Scottish were stationed in England.\n\nDuring the second part of the Bishops' War, Charles I had run very low on money (since he was also fighting France and Spain), so he was forced to call a Parliament to make new taxes. He and the Parliament could not agree on anything, so after three weeks, Charles I dissolved the Parliament. Then he desperately needed new taxes, so Charles I called a Parliament again and it would only help him if he agreed to some terms, which ultimately made Charles I a constitutional monarch. It was called the Long Parliament (1640–1660), because it was not officially dissolved by its own vote until 1660.\n\nThese terms were:\n\nMost of England believed that Parliament had done enough to curb the power of King Charles I, but the radicals in Parliament (the extremist Puritans) and the radicals around the country (again, extremist Puritans) wanted to reform the Church of England by getting rid of the bishops (and all other things with the semblance of Catholicism) and by establishing the Puritans' method of worship as the standard. This caused a political division in Parliament, so Charles I took advantage of it. He then sent 500 soldiers into the House of Commons to arrest five of the Puritans' ringleaders (John Hampden included). The five ringleaders had been tipped off, so they had left Parliament and Charles I was left with only shame for storming Parliament.\n\nKing Charles I left London and went to Oxford, and the English Civil War began (1642). The North and West of England were on Charles I's side (along with most of the Nobles and country gentry). They were known as the \"Cavaliers\". Charles I created an army illegally (since he needed the Parliament's consent).\n\nThe South and East of England were on Parliament's side and were known as \"Roundheads\", for their haircuts. In response to Charles I raising an army, they did so as well. Yet, they didn't have the military might that King Charles I (and his nobles) had, so they solicited the help of the Scottish with the Solemn League and Covenant that promised to impose the Presbyterian religion on the Church of England. They called their army the New Model Army and they made its commander Oliver Cromwell, who was also a member of Parliament. The New Model Army was composed mostly of Presbyterians.\n\nThough Parliament won, it was clear to the Scots that it was not going to uphold the Solemn League and Covenant by imposing Presbyterianism on England (Puritanism wasn't quite Presbyterian), so the New Model Army, Parliament and the Scots began falling apart. The Scots were paid for their help and sent back to Scotland.\n\nThe Presbyterian Roundheads were interested in freedom to practice their religion and not in making the Presbyterian religion the state religion.\n\nCromwell proposed that Parliament reinstate the bishops of the Church of England and King Charles I as a constitutional monarch, but allow for the toleration of other religions. Though at the end of the war, the people of England could accept Charles I back in office but not religious toleration. They also wanted the New Model Army dissolved since it was a provocative factor. Thus Parliament disallowed religious toleration and voted to disband the New Model Army, but the New Model Army refused the order.\n\nCharles I then made the same deal that the Roundheads had made with the Scottish and Parliamentary Presbyterians. He solicited the help of Scotland (and the Presbyterians) and in return he promised to impose Presbyterianism on England. The New Model Army would not allow this deal to be made (because it would give Charles I military power once more). Thus a \"new\" civil war broke out in 1648.\n\nThis time, Scotland, the Parliamentary Presbyterians and the royalists were on the side of Charles I. The New Model Army and the rest of Parliament were against him.\n\nIn the Battle of Preston (1648) Cromwell and his New Model Army defeated Charles I.\n\nThen one of Cromwell's officers, Colonel Pride, destroyed the Presbyterian majority in Parliament by driving out of Parliament 143 Presbyterians of the 203 (leaving behind 60). The new Parliament constituted a Rump Parliament, which was a Parliament in which the minority (Presbyterians) carried on in the name of the majority that was kicked out. The Rump Parliament:\n\nScotland was against Cromwell's \"Commonwealth\" (Republic) and declared Charles I's son king at Edinburgh as King Charles II, but Cromwell and the New Model Army defeated him (1650) and he fled to France where he stayed until 1660.\n\nCromwell then went to Ireland to govern it, but was \"disgusted\" with the Catholics, so he massacred many of them (in battle) and so the Irish rebelled against him as well.\n\nCromwell then dissolved the Rump Parliament and declared himself to be the Lord Protector (dictator).\n\nCromwell died (1658) and was succeeded by his son Richard Cromwell, who tried to keep power militarily and absolutely, but he was also incapable of unifying all of the diverse groups (religious and ethnic). General George Monk came down from Scotland and overthrew Richard. He then invited the remnants of the Long Parliament (the Rump Parliament) to reconvene. The Long Parliament met and officially ended (in 1660, after being open since 1640) when it voted to dissolve itself and create a new Parliament. The new Parliament began the Restoration (of the monarchy) by choosing Charles I's son Charles II to be the King of England.\n\nThe idea of a political party with factions took form around the time of the Civil War. Soldiers from the Parliamentarian New Model Army and a faction of Levellers freely debated rights to political representation during the Putney Debates of 1647. The Levellers published a newspaper (The Moderate) and pioneered political petitions, pamphleteering and party colours. Later, the pre-war Royalist (then Cavalier) and opposing Parliamentarian groupings became the Tory party and the Whigs in the Parliament.\n\nIn 1649 Diggers, a small people's political reform movement, published \"The True Levellers Standard Advanced: or, The State of Community opened, and Presented to the Sons of Men.\" This is another important document in the history of British constitutionalism, though different from the others listed here because the Diggers' declaration comes from the \"people\" instead of from the state. They are some times called \"True Levellers\" to distinguish themselves from the larger political group called the Levellers, which had supported the republicans during the civil war. The Diggers were not satisfied with what had been gained by the war against the king and wanted instead a dismantling of the state. They can be best understood through such philosophies as libertarianism, anarchism, and religious communism.\n\nAlso at this time, the Polish Brethren arrived in England and Holland. The sect of Polish Brethren had been driven out of Poland after The Deluge because they were commonly considered to be collaborators with the Swedish.\n\nThe Diggers' radical ideas influenced thinkers in Poland, Holland, and England, playing an especially important role in the philosophy of John Locke. Locke, in turn, profoundly impacted the development of political ideas regarding liberty, which would later influence the Founding Fathers of the United States.\n\nThe Glorious Revolution was the overthrow of James II in 1688 and his replacement with William III and Mary II as joint monarchs. The Convention Parliament of 1689 drew up a Declaration of Right to address perceived abuses of government under James II and to secure the religion and liberties of Protestants. This was enacted by the Parliament of England as the Bill of Rights 1689, which limited royal power and reaffirmed certain civil rights, building on the Petition of Right 1628 and the Habeas Corpus Act 1679. The Parliament of Scotland approved it as the Claim of Right.\n\nBoth the Bill of Rights and the Claim of Right contributed a great deal to the establishment of the concept of parliamentary sovereignty and the curtailment of the powers of the monarch. Leading, ultimately, to the establishment of constitutional monarchy. They furthered the protection of the rule of law, which had started to become a principle of the way the country is governed.\n\nIn the Act of Settlement 1701, Parliament altered the line of succession to the throne. In order to preserve the Protestant succession, Parliament ensured the Crown would pass to Sophia, the granddaughter of James I and first cousin to Charles II and James II. Sophia's son George I became King in 1714 and his descendants, including the incumbent monarch Queen Elizabeth II, have reigned Britain ever since.\n\nThe Act also introduced the concept of judicial independence by establishing that judges can keep their position as long as they maintain \"good behaviour\". Before 1701 a judge's position was held at the disrection of the monarch and there were instances of judges being removed from their position after making judgements that the monarch did not like. After the Act of Settlement, a judge could only be removed from office by the agreement of both the House of Commons and the House of Lords with the subsequent approval of the monarch.\n\nAfter severe economic dislocation in Scotland in the 1690s, there were moves toward the political union of England and Scotland. The Treaty of Union was agreed on 22 July 1706, and then ratified by both the Parliament of England and Parliament of Scotland each passing an Act of Union in 1707. The English and Scottish parliaments were replaced by a combined parliament, the first Parliament of Great Britain. It sat in Westminster and largely continued English traditions without interruption. Forty-five Scots were added to the 513 members of the House of Commons and 16 Scots to the 190 members of the House of Lords. It was also a full economic union, replacing the Scottish systems of currency, taxation and laws regulating trade.\n\nThe role of prime minister began to emerge during the period 1721-1742 as Robert Walpole chaired cabinet meetings, appointed all other ministers, and developed the doctrine of cabinet solidarity.\n\nThe United Kingdom was created by the Union in January 1801 of the Kingdom of Great Britain with the Kingdom of Ireland, which had been ruled by English and British monarchs since the Middle Ages, with the passing of the Act of Union 1800. This created the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949 asserted the supremacy of the House of Commons by limiting the legislation-blocking powers of the House of Lords. The Life Peerages Act 1958 allowed the creation of life peers which gave the Prime Minister the ability to change the composition of the House of Lords.\n\nBetween 1832 and 1928, numerous Acts of Parliament repealed voting restrictions and expanded the franchise from just 5% of the adult population to universal suffrage for all male and female adults aged 21 and over. The Representation of the People Act 1969 lowered the voting age from 21 to 18.\n\nWilliam Ewart Gladstone's UK Midlothian campaign between 1878-80 began the move towards modern political campaigning.\n\nIn 1912, the House of Lords managed to delay a Home Rule bill passed by the House of Commons. It was enacted as the Government of Ireland Act 1914. During these two years the threat of religious civil war hung over Ireland with the creation of the Unionist Ulster Volunteers opposed to the Act and their nationalist counterparts, the Irish Volunteers supporting the Act. The outbreak of World War I in 1914 put the crisis on political hold. A disorganized Easter Rising in 1916 was brutally suppressed by the British, which had the effect of galvanizing Catholic demands for independence. Prime Minister David Lloyd George failed to introduce Home Rule in 1918 and in the December 1918 General Election Sinn Féin won a majority of Irish seats. Its MPs refused to take their seats at Westminster, instead choosing to sit in the First Dáil parliament in Dublin. A declaration of independence was ratified by Dáil Éireann, the self-declared Republic's parliament in January 1919. An Anglo-Irish War was fought between Crown forces and the Irish Republican Army between January 1919 and June 1921. The war ended with the Anglo-Irish Treaty of December 1921 that established the Irish Free State. Six northern, predominantly Protestant counties became Northern Ireland and have remained part of the United Kingdom ever since, despite demands of the Catholic minority to unite with the Republic of Ireland. Britain officially adopted the name \"United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland\" by the Royal and Parliamentary Titles Act 1927.\n\nThe European Communities Act 1972 (UK) incorporated European Community law into United Kingdom law, which subsequently became European Union law. It is arguable that the European Communities Act of 1972 is “semi-entrenched”; for as long as the UK remains a member of European Union that Act cannot be repealed.\n\nIn Labour's first term (1997–2001), it introduced a large package of constitutional reforms, which it promised in its 1997 manifesto. The most significant were:\n\nDuring the Labour government's second term (2001-2005), the House of Commons voted on seven options in February 2003 on what proportion of elected and appointed members (from 100% elected to 100% appointed) the House of Lords should have. None of the options received a majority.\n\nIn 2004, a Joint Committee (of the House of Commons and House of Lords) tasked with overseeing the drafting of the Civil Contingencies Bill, published its first report, in which, among other things, it suggested amending the bill's clauses that grant Cabinet Ministers the power \"to disapply or modify any Act of Parliament\" as overly wide, and that the bill should be modified to preclude changes to the following Acts, which, it suggested, formed \"the fundamental parts of constitutional law\" of the United Kingdom:\n\nThis amendment was defeated by the government and the bill was passed without it. However, the government partially one recommendation — the Human Rights Act 1998 may not be amended by emergency regulations.\n\nThe Constitutional Reform Act 2005 created the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom and guarantees judicial independence.\n\nThe Conservative-Liberal Democrat Coalition introduced several reforms including the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010, which reformed the Royal Prerogative and made other significant changes; the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011, which introduced fixed-term parliaments of 5 years.\n\nA key Liberal Democrat policy was that of voting reform, to which a referendum took place in May 2011 on whether or not Britain should adopt a system of Alternative Vote to elect MPs to Westminster. However, the proposal was rejected overwhelmingly, with 68% of voters in favour of retaining first-past-the-post.\n\nIn late October 2011, the prime ministers of the Commonwealth realms voted to grant gender equality in the royal succession, ending the male-preference primogeniture that was mandated by the Act of Settlement 1701. The amendment, once enacted, also ended the ban on the monarch marrying a Catholic. Following the Perth Agreement in 2011, legislation amending the Bill of Rights 1689 and the Act of Settlement 1701 came into effect across the Commonwealth realms on 26 March 2015 which changed the laws of succession to the British throne. In the United Kingdom, it was passed as the Succession to the Crown Act 2013.\n\nFurther powers were devolved under the Government of Wales Act 2006, Northern Ireland Act 2006, Northern Ireland Act 2009, Scotland Act 2012, Wales Act 2014, and the Scotland Act 2016.\n\nOn 18 September, a referendum was held in Scotland on whether to leave the United Kingdom and become an independent country. The three UK-wide political parties - Labour, Conservative and Liberal Democrats - campaigned together as part of the Better Together campaign while the pro-independence Scottish National Party was the main force in the Yes Scotland campaign, together with the Scottish Green Party and the Scottish Socialist Party. Days before the vote, with the opinion polls closing, the three Better Together party leaders issued 'The Vow', a promise of more powers for Scotland in the event of a No vote. The referendum resulted in Scotland voting by 55% to 45% to remain part of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Smith Commission was announced by Prime Minister David Cameron on 19 September 2014 to propose the powers that would be devolved to the Scottish Government. Once the recommendations had been published they were debated in the UK Parliament and a command paper was published in January 2015 putting forward draft legislative proposals. A Scottish Parliament committee report published in May 2015 said that this draft bill did not meet the recommendations of the Smith Commission, specifically in relation to welfare payments. A spokesman for the UK Government said that a full Parliamentary discussion would follow. A bill based on the Smith Commission's recommendations was announced by the UK government in the May 2015 Queen's Speech. The bill subsequently became law as the Scotland Act 2016 in March 2016.\n\nOn 20 February 2016, Prime Minister David Cameron announced that a referendum on the UK's membership of the European Union would be held on 23 June 2016, following years of campaigning by eurosceptics. Debates and campaigns by parties supporting both \"Remain\" and \"Leave\" focused on concerns regarding trade and the single market, security, migration and sovereignty. The result of the referendum was in favour of the country leaving the EU with 51.9% of voters wanting to leave. The UK remains a member for the time being, but is expected to invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, which would begin negotiations on a withdrawal agreement that will last no more than two years (unless the Council and the UK agree to extend the negotiation period) which will ultimately lead to an exit from the European Union.\n\nIn October 2016 the prime minister, Theresa May, promised a \"Great Repeal Bill\" which would repeal the 1972 European Communities Act and import its regulations into UK law, with effect from the date of British withdrawal. The regulations could then be amended or repealed on a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe Supreme Court issued a ruling in January 2017 that an Act of Parliament is needed before the government can trigger to leave the European Union.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35695443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35695443", "title": "Indian trademark law", "text": "Indian trademark law\n\nIndian trademark law statutorily protects trademarks as per the Trademark Act, 1999 and also under the common law remedy of passing off. Statutory protection of trademark is administered by the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks, a government agency which reports to the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP), under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.\n\nThe law of trademark deals with the mechanism of registration, protection of trademark and prevention of fraudulent trademark. The law also provides for the rights acquired by registration of trademark, modes of transfer and assignment of the rights, nature of infringements, penalties for such infringement and remedies available to the owner in case of such infringement.\n\nThe law of trademark in India before 1940 was based on the common law principles of passing off and equity as followed in England before the enactment of the first Registration Act, 1875. The first statutory law related to trademark in India was the Trade Marks Act, 1940 which had similar provision like the UK Trade Marks Act, 1938. In 1958, the Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 was enacted which consolidated the provisions related to trademarks contained in other statutes like, the Indian Penal Code, Criminal Procedure Code and the Sea Customs Act. \nThe Trade and Merchandise Marks Act, 1958 was repealed by the Trade Marks Act, 1999 and is the current governing law related to registered trademarks. The 1999 Act was enacted to comply with the provisions of the TRIPS. Though some aspects of the unregistered trade marks have been enacted into the 1999 Act, but they are primarily governed by the common law rules based on the principles evolved out of the judgments of the Courts. Where the law is ambiguous, the principles evolved and interpretation made by the Courts in England have been applied in India taking into consideration the context of the legal procedure, laws and realities of India.\n\nTrademark defined under Section 2 (zb) of the Trade Marks Act, 1999 as, \"trade mark means a mark capable of being represented graphically and which is capable of distinguishing the goods or services of one person from those of others and may include shape of goods, their packaging and combination of colours.\" A mark can include a device, brand, heading, label, ticket, name, signature, word, letter, numeral, shape of goods, packaging or combination of colors or any such combinations.\n\nTrademark law 2002, suggests that trademark can be registered in India under the following classes:\n\nClass 1. Chemical used in industry, science, photography, agriculture, horticulture and forestry; unprocessed artificial resins, unprocessed plastics; manures; fire extinguishing compositions; tempering and soldering preparations; chemical substances for preserving foodstuffs; tanning substances; adhesive used in industry\n\nClass 2 . Paints, varnishes, lacquers; preservatives against rust and against deterioration of wood; colorants; mordents; raw natural resins; metals in foil and powder form for painters; decorators; printers and artists\n\nClass 3 . Bleaching preparations and other substances for laundry use; cleaning; polishing; scouring and abrasive preparations; soaps; perfumery, essential oils, cosmetics, hair lotions, dentifrices\n\nClass 4 . Industrial oils and greases; lubricants; dust absorbing, wetting and binding compositions; fuels(including motor spirit) and illuminants; candles, wicks\n\nClass 5 . Pharmaceutical, veterinary and sanitary preparations; dietetic substances adapted for medical use, food for babies; plasters, materials for dressings; materials for stopping teeth, dental wax; disinfectants; preparation for destroying vermin; fungicides, herbicides\n\nClass 6. Common metals and their alloys; metal building materials;\n\ntransportable buildings of metal; materials of metal for railway tracks; non-electric cables and wires of common metal; ironmongery, small items of metal hardware; pipes and tubes of metal; safes; goods of common metal not included in other classes; ores\n\nClass 7 . Machines and machine tools; motors and engines (except for land vehicles); machine coupling and transmission components (except for land vehicles); agricultural implements other than hand-operated; incubators for eggs\n\nClass 8 . Hand tools and implements (hand-operated); cutlery; side arms; razors\n\nClass 9 . Scientific, nautical, surveying, electric, photographic, cinematographic, optical, weighing, measuring, signalling, checking (supervision), life saving and teaching apparatus and instruments; apparatus for recording, transmission or reproduction of sound or images; magnetic data carriers, recording discs; automatic vending machines and mechanisms for coin-operated apparatus; cash registers, calculating machines, data processing equipment and computers; fire extinguishing apparatus\n\nClass 10 . Surgical, medical, dental and veterinary apparatus and instruments, artificial limbs, eyes and teeth; orthopaedic articles; suture materials\n\nClass 11 . Apparatus for lighting, heating, steam generating, cooking, refrigerating, drying ventilating, water supply and sanitary purposes\n\nClass 12 . Vehicles; apparatus for locomotion by land, air or water\n\nClass 13 . Firearms; ammunition and projectiles; explosives; fire works\n\nClass 14 . Precious metals and their alloys and goods in precious metals or coated therewith, not included in other classes; jewellery, precious stones; horological and other chronometric instruments\n\nClass 15. Musical instruments\n\nClass 16 . Paper, cardboard and goods made from these materials, not included in other classes; printed matter; bookbinding material; photographs; stationery; adhesives for stationery or household purposes; artists’ materials; paint brushes; typewriters and office requisites (except furniture); instructional and teaching material (except apparatus); plastic materials for packaging (not included in other classes); playing cards; printers’ type; printing blocks\n\nClass 17 . Rubber, gutta percha, gum, asbestos, mica and goods made from these materials and not included in other classes; plastics in extruded form for use in manufacture; packing, stopping and insulating materials; flexible pipes, not of metal\n\nClass 18 . Leather and imitations of leather, and goods made of these materials and not included in other classes; animal skins, hides, trunks and travelling bags; umbrellas, parasols and walking sticks; whips, harness and saddlery\n\nClass 19 . Building materials, (non-metallic), non-metallic rigid pipes for building; asphalt, pitch and bitumen; non-metallic transportable buildings; monuments, not of metal.\n\nClass 20 . Furniture, mirrors, picture frames; goods(not included in other classes) of wood, cork, reed, cane, wicker, horn, bone, ivory, whalebone, shell, amber, mother- of-pearl, meerschaum and substitutes for all these materials, or of plastics\n\nClass 21 . Household or kitchen utensils and containers(not of precious metal or coated therewith); combs and sponges; brushes(except paints brushes); brush making materials; articles for cleaning purposes; steelwool; unworked or semi-worked glass (except glass used in building); glassware, porcelain and earthenware not included in other classes\n\nClass 22 . Ropes, string, nets, tents, awnings, tarpaulins, sails, sacks and bags (not included in other classes) padding and stuffing materials(except of rubber or plastics); raw fibrous textile materials\n\nClass 23 . Yarns and threads, for textile use\n\nClass 24 . Textiles and textile goods, not included in other classes; bed and table covers.\n\nClass 25 . Clothing, footwear, headgear\n\nClass 26 . Lace and embroidery, ribbons and braid; buttons, hooks and eyes, pins and needles; artificial flowers\n\nClass 27 . Carpets, rugs, mats and matting, linoleum and other materials for covering existing floors; wall hangings(non-textile)\n\nClass 28 . Games and playthings, gymnastic and sporting articles not included in other classes; decorations for Christmas trees\n\nClass 29 . Meat, fish, poultry and game; meat extracts; preserved, dried and cooked fruits and vegetables; jellies, jams, fruit sauces; eggs, milk and milk products; edible oils and fats\n\nClass 30 . Coffee, tea, cocoa, sugar, rice, tapioca, sago, artificial coffee; flour and preparations made from cereals, bread, pastry and confectionery, ices; honey, treacle; yeast, baking powder; salt, mustard; vinegar, sauces, (condiments); spices; ice\n\nClass 31. Agricultural, horticultural and forestry products and grains not included in other classes; live animals; fresh fruits and vegetables; seeds, natural plants and flowers; foodstuffs for animals, malt\n\nClass 32 . Beers, mineral and aerated waters, and other non-alcoholic drinks; fruit drinks and fruit juices; syrups and other preparations for making beverages\n\nClass 33 .Alcoholic beverages(except beers)\n\nClass 34 . Tobacco, smokers’ articles, matches\n\nSERVICES\n\nClass 35 .Advertising, business management, business administration, office functions.\n\nClass 36 .Insurance, financial affairs; monetary affairs; real estate affairs.\n\nClass 37 . Building construction; repair; installation services.\n\nClass 38. Telecommunications.\n\nClass 39. Transport; packaging and storage of goods; travel arrangement.\n\nClass 40. Treatment of materials.\n\nClass 41. Education; providing of training; entertainment; sporting and cultural activities.\n\nClass 42. Scientific and technological services and research and design relating thereto; industrial analysis and research services; design and development of computer hardware and software.\n\nClass 43. Services for providing food and drink; temporary accommodation.\n\nThe two symbols associated with Indian trademarks ™ (the trademark symbol) and ® (the registered trademark symbol) represent the status of a mark and accordingly its level of protection. While ™ can be used with any common law usage of a mark, ® may only be used by the owner of a mark following registration with the relevant national authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "3005906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3005906", "title": "Information privacy law", "text": "Information privacy law\n\nInformation privacy law or data protection laws prohibit the disclosure or misuse of information about private individuals. Over 80 countries and independent territories, including nearly every country in Europe and many in Latin America and the Caribbean, Asia, and Africa, have now adopted comprehensive data protection laws. The European Union has the General Data Protection Regulation, in force since May 25, 2018. The United States is notable for not having adopted a comprehensive information privacy law, but rather having adopted limited sectoral laws in some areas.\n\nThese laws are based on Fair Information Practice that was first developed in the United States in the 1970s by the Department for Health, Education and Welfare (HEW). The basic principles of data protection are:\n\nThe Data Act is the world's first national data protection law and was enacted in Sweden on 11 May 1973.\n\nIn Canada, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) went into effect on 1 January 2001, applicable to private bodies which are federally regulated. All other organizations were included on 1 January 2004. The PIPEDA brings Canada into compliance with EU data protection law.\n\nPIPEDA specifies the rules to govern collection, use, or disclosure of the personal information in the course of recognizing the right of privacy of individuals with respect to their personal information. It also specifies the rules for the organizations to collect, use, and disclose personal information.\n\nThe PIPEDA apply to:\n\nThe PIPEDA Does NOT apply to\n\nAs specified in PIPEDA:\n\n\"Personal Information\" means information about an identifiable individual, but does not include the name, title, or business address or telephone number of an employee of an organization.\n\n\"Organization\" means an association, a partnership, a person and a trade union.\n\n\"Federal work, undertaking or business\" means any work, undertaking or business that is within the legislative authority of Parliament. Including:\n\n\nThe PIPEDA gives individuals the right to:\n\nThe PIPEDA requires organizations to:\n\nThe right to data privacy is relatively heavily regulated and actively enforced in Europe. Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) provides a right to respect for one's \"private and family life, his home and his correspondence\", subject to certain restrictions. The European Court of Human Rights has given this article a very broad interpretation in its jurisprudence. According to the Court's case law the collection of information by officials of the state about an individual without their consent always falls within the scope of Article 8. Thus, gathering information for the official census, recording fingerprints and photographs in a police register, collecting medical data or details of personal expenditures and implementing a system of personal identification has been judged to raise data privacy issues.\n\nAny state interference with a person's privacy is only acceptable for the Court if three conditions are fulfilled:\n\nThe government is not the only entity which may pose a threat to data privacy. Other citizens, and private companies most importantly, may also engage in threatening activities, especially since the automated processing of data became widespread. The Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data was concluded within the Council of Europe in 1981. This convention obliges the signatories to enact legislation concerning the automatic processing of personal data, which many duly did.\n\nAs all the member states of the European Union are also signatories of the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data, the European Commission was concerned that diverging data protection legislation would emerge and impede the free flow of data within the EU zone. Therefore, the European Commission decided to propose harmonizing data protection law within the EU. The resulting Data Protection Directive was adopted by the European Parliament and ministers from national governments in 1995 and had to be transposed into national law by the end of 1998.\n\nThe directive contains a number of key principles with which member states must comply. Anyone processing personal data must comply with the eight enforceable principles of good practice. They state that the data must be:\n\nPersonal data covers both facts and opinions about the individual. It also includes information regarding the intentions of the data controller towards the individual, although in some limited circumstances exemptions will apply. With processing, the definition is far wider than before. For example, it incorporates the concepts of \"obtaining\", \"holding\" and \"disclosing\".\n\nAll EU member states adopted legislation pursuant this directive or adapted their existing laws. Each country also has its own supervisory authority to monitor the level of protection.\n\nBecause of this, in theory the transfer of personal information from the EU to the US is prohibited when equivalent privacy protection is not in place in the US. American companies that would work with EU data must comply with the Safe Harbour framework. The core principles of data protected are limited collection, consent of the subject, accuracy, integrity, security, subject right of review and deletion. As a result, customers of international organizations such as Amazon and eBay in the EU have the ability to review and delete information, while Americans do not. In the United States the equivalent guiding philosophy is the Code of Fair Information Practice (FIP).\n\nThe difference in language here is important: in the United States the debate is about privacy where in the European Community the debate is on data protection. Moving the debate from privacy to data protection is seen by some philosophers as a mechanism for moving forward in the practical realm while not requiring agreement on fundamental questions about the nature of privacy.\n\nFrance adapted its existing law, \"no. 78-17 of 6 January 1978 concerning information technology, files and civil liberties\"\".\n\nIn Germany, both the federal government and the states enacted legislation.\n\nWhile Switzerland is not a member of the European Union (EU) or of the European Economic Area, it has partially implemented the EU Directive on the protection of personal data in 2006 by acceding to the STE 108 agreement of the Council of Europe and a corresponding amendment of the federal Data Protection Act. However, Swiss law imposes less restrictions upon data processing than the Directive in several respects.\n\nIn Switzerland, the right to privacy is guaranteed in article 13 of the Swiss Federal Constitution. The Swiss Federal Data Protection Act (DPA) and the Swiss Federal Data Protection Ordinance (DPO) entered into force on July 1, 1993. The latest amendments of the DPA and the DPO entered into force on January 1, 2008.\n\nThe DPA applies to the processing of personal data by private persons and federal government agencies. Unlike the data protection legislation of many other countries, the DPA protects both personal data pertaining to natural persons and legal entities.\n\nThe Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner in particular supervises compliance of the federal government agencies with the DPA, provides advice to private persons on data protection, conducts investigations and makes recommendations concerning data protection practices.\n\nSome data files must be registered with the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner before they are created. In the case of a transfer of personal data outside of Switzerland, special requirements need to be met and, depending on the circumstances, the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner must be informed before the transfer is made.\n\nMost Swiss cantons have enacted their own data protection laws regulating the processing of personal data by cantonal and municipal bodies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the Data Protection Act 1998 (c 29) (Information Commissioner) implemented the EU Directive on the protection of personal data . It replaced the Data Protection Act 1984 (c 35). The 2016 General Data Protection Regulation supersedes previous Protection Acts. The Data Protection Act 2018 (c 12) updates data protection laws in the UK. It is a national law which complements the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).\n\nIn the Philippines, Republic Act No. 10173, entitled as the Data Privacy Act of 2012 was signed on August 15, 2012 by then President Benigno Aquino III.\n\nData privacy is not highly legislated or regulated in the U.S. In the United States, access to private data contained in, for example, third-party credit reports may be sought when seeking employment or medical care, or making automobile, housing, or other purchases on credit terms. Although partial regulations exist, there is no all-encompassing law regulating the acquisition, storage, or use of personal data in the U.S. In general terms, in the U.S., whoever can be troubled to key in the data, is deemed to own the right to store and use it, even if the data was collected without permission, except to any extent regulated by laws and rules such as the federal Communications Act's provisions, and implementing rules from the Federal Communications Commission, regulating use of customer proprietary network information (CPNI). For instance, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (COPPA), and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (FACTA), are all examples of U.S. federal laws with provisions which tend to promote information flow efficiencies.\n\nThe Supreme Court interpreted the Constitution to grant a right of privacy to individuals in \"Griswold v. Connecticut\". Very few states, however, recognize an individual's right to privacy, a notable exception being California. An inalienable right to privacy is enshrined in the California Constitution's article 1, section 1, and the California legislature has enacted several pieces of legislation aimed at protecting this right. The California Online Privacy Protection Act (OPPA) of 2003 requires operators of commercial web sites or online services that collect personal information on California residents through a web site to conspicuously post a privacy policy on the site and to comply with its policy.\n\nThe safe harbor arrangement was developed by the United States Department of Commerce in order to provide a means for U.S. companies to demonstrate compliance with European Commission directives and thus to simplify relations between them and European businesses.\n\nRecently, lawmakers in several states have proposed legislations to change the way online businesses handle user information. Among those generating significant attention are several Do Not Track legislations and the Right to Know Act (California Bill AB 1291). The California Right to Know Act, if passed, would require every business which keeps user information to provide its user a copy of stored information when requested. The bill faced heavy oppositions from trade groups representing companies such as Google, Microsoft, and Facebook, and failed to pass.\n\nOn June 28, 2018 California legislature passed AB 375, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, effective January 1, 2020. If the law is not amended before it becomes effective, The California Consumer Privacy Act, AB. 375 — gives California residents an array of new rights, starting with the right to be informed about what kinds of personal data companies have collected and why it was collected.\n\nThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was enacted by the U.S. Congress in 1996. HIPAA is also known as the Kennedy-Kassebaum Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA-Public Law 104-191), effective August 21, 1996. The basic idea of HIPAA is that an individual who is a subject of individually identifiable health information should have:\n\nOne difficulty with HIPAA is that there must be a mechanism to authenticate the patient who demands access to his/her data. As a result, medical facilities have begun to ask for Social Security Numbers from patients, thus arguably decreasing privacy by simplifying the act of correlating health records with other records. The issue of consent is problematic under HIPAA, because the medical providers simply make care contingent upon agreeing to the privacy standards in practice.\n\nThe Fair Credit Reporting Act applies the principles of the Code of Fair Information Practice to credit reporting agencies. The FCRA allows individuals to opt out of unwanted credit offers:\n\nBecause of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, each person can obtain a free annual credit report.\n\nThe Fair Credit Reporting Act has been effective in preventing the proliferation of specious so-called private credit guides. Previously, private credit guides offered detailed, if unreliable, information on easily identifiable individuals. Before the Fair Credit Reporting Act salacious unsubstantiated material could be included, in fact, gossip was widely included in credit reports. EPIC has a FCRA page. The Consumer Data Industry Association, which represents the consumer reporting industry, also has a Web site with FCRA information.\n\nThe Fair Credit Reporting Act provides consumers the ability to view, correct, contest, and limit the uses of credit reports. The FCRA also protects the credit agency from the charge of negligent release in the case of misrepresentation by the requester. Credit agencies must ask the requester the purpose of a requested information release, but need to make no effort to verify the truth of the requester's assertions. In fact, the courts have ruled that, \"The Act clearly does not provide a remedy for an illicit or abusive use of information about consumers\" (Henry v Forbes, 1976). It is widely believed that in order to avoid the FCRA, ChoicePoint was created by Equifax at which time the parent company copied all its records to its newly created subsidiary. ChoicePoint is not a credit reporting agency, and thus FCRA does not apply.\n\nThe Fair Debt Collection Practices Act similarly limits dissemination of information about a consumer's financial transactions. It prevents creditors or their agents from disclosing the fact that an individual is in debt to a third party, although it allows creditors and their agents to attempt to obtain information about a debtor's location. It limits the actions of those seeking payment of a debt. For example, debt collection agencies are prohibited from harassment or contacting individuals at work. The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 (which actually gutted consumer protections, for example in case of bankruptcy resulting from medical cost) limited some of these controls on debtors.\n\nThe Electronic Communications Privacy Act (ECPA) establishes criminal sanctions for interception of electronic communication. However, the legislation has been criticized for lack of impact due to loopholes.\n\nThe following summarized some of the laws, regulations and directives related to the protection of information systems:\n\nSeveral US federal agencies have privacy statutes that cover their collection and use of private information. These include the Census Bureau, the Internal Revenue Service, and the National Center for Education Statistics (under the Education Sciences Reform Act). In addition, the CIPSEA statute protects confidentiality of data collected by federal statistical agencies.\n\nUnlike the U.S. approach to privacy protection, which relies on industry-specific legislation, regulation and self-regulation, the European Union relies on comprehensive privacy legislation. The European Directive on Data Protection that went into effect in October 1998, includes, for example, the requirement to create government data protection agencies, registration of databases with those agencies, and in some instances prior approval before personal data processing may begin. In order to bridge these different privacy approaches and provide a streamlined means for U.S. organizations to comply with the Directive, the U.S. Department of Commerce in consultation with the European Commission developed a \"safe harbor\" framework. The safe harbor - approved by the EU in July 2000 - is a way for U.S. companies to comply with European privacy laws.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4994112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4994112", "title": "International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code", "text": "International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code\n\nIMDG Code or International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code is accepted as an international guideline to the safe transportation or shipment of dangerous goods or hazardous materials by water on vessel. IMDG Code is intended to protect crew members and to prevent marine pollution in the safe transportation of hazardous materials by vessel. It is recommended to governments for adoption or for use as the basis for national regulations.s mandatory in conjunction with the obligations of the members of united nation government under the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78).\nIt is intended for use not only by the mariner but also by all those involved in industries and services connected with shipping. Contains advice on terminology, packaging, labeling, placarding, markings, stowage, segregation, handling, and emergency response. The HNS Convention covers hazardous and noxious substances that are included in the IMDG code.\n\nThe code is updated and maintained by the CCC (formerly DSC) Sub-Committee of the International Maritime Organization every 2 years.\n\nIMG Code in calendar year 2017 is the either the 2014 Edition; Incorporating Amendment 37-14 or 2016 Edition; Incorporating Amendment 38-16. Both the 2014 Edition and the 2016 Edition were voluntary in 2017. The 2016 Edition becomes mandatory in 2018 and will again be voluntary in 2019 when the 2018 Edition will also be in use. \n\n"}
{"id": "7695579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7695579", "title": "Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers", "text": "Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers\n\nThe , often referred to as JASRAC, is a Japanese copyright collection society. It was founded in 1939 as a non-profit making organization, and is the largest musical copyright administration society in Japan. \n\nJASRAC's main business activity is to act as trustee of copyright rights such as recording and performing rights for songwriters, lyricists, and music publishers. It manages licensing to music users, collects license fees, and distributes the same to the rights holders. It also supervises copyright infringements and prosecutes infringers. Because JASRAC is a foundation, it is subject to the General Foundation and Estate Foundation Act subject to the rules non-profit management. \nThe headquarters is located in Shibuya, Tokyo, in a building owned by the Masao Koga Music Cultural Memorial Foundation. It has 22 branches in major cities of Japan. JASRAC was established in 1939 with the predecessor Great Japan Music Association, and is the oldest copyright management company in Japan.\n\nIn 1988 Japan joined the Berne Convention where the Copyright law was enforced. However, there was no concept on how to pay royalties for recorded songs for each live performance. In 1931, Wilhelm Prague (ウィルヘルム・プラーゲ), a German teacher at the imperial First High School under the old system, established a copyright management organization called \"Prague Institution\" in Tokyo, and argued that it mainly acquired the agency right for Japan from a European copyright management organization and began requesting music usage fees to all businesses using music, such as broadcasting stations and orchestras. \n\nAs the license fees requests of Prague were at the time extralegal and their enforcement included pressurizing, the use of compositions outside Japan became actually difficult. Even NHK was due to a deadlock in the negotiations with the Prague Institution for over one year not able to broadcast foreign music pieces. Prague also began to urge Japanese artists to let the Prague Institute act as agent of their copyright management. Though he was also considered to pursue not monetary goals but the proper management of copyrights, he wasn't able to bridge the gap to the music users, and the acquisition of agency rights from Japanese authors caused further uproar. These incidents were called the \"Prague Whirlwind\" and triggered concentration management of copyright in Japan.\n\nIn order to develop the situation, in 1939 the copyright brokerage act (著作権ニ関スル仲介業務ニ関スル法律) was enacted providing that only holders of permission from the Ministry of Home Affairs (Japan) can undertake copyright brokerage business, and the predecessor of JASRAC (Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and Publishers), the Great Japanese Music Copyright Association, was established and started operation in 1940. Prague was excluded from copyright management work, received a fine for violating this law, and left Japan in 1941. The Agency for Cultural Affairs granted permission of brokerage business to four organizations, including the Great Japan Music Association, and other organizations. They didn't allow other entry, and the mediation of music copyright became the monopoly business of the Great Japan Music Association.\n\nIn 2006, JASRAC took legal action by requesting that nearly 30,000 videos featuring songs or clips that violated the copyrights of Sony Music Entertainment Japan, Avex Japan, Pony Canyon, JVC Victor, Warner Japan, Toy's Factory, and Universal Japan be removed from YouTube. \n\nIn April 2008, FTC (Fair Trade Commission) officials raided the society's Tokyo headquarters on suspicion of violating Japan's Anti-Monopoly Law. In February 2009, the FTC ruled that the system prevents other companies from entering the copyright-fee collection and management business.\n\nIn February 2009, a cease-and-desist order was issued by the Japanese Fair Trade Commission (FTC) for allegedly breaking the Anti-monopoly Law, demanding that the society end its blanket-fee system. Under that system, radio and TV stations are allowed unlimited use of JASRAC-managed music copyrights for a flat fee of 1.5% of their annual broadcasting revenue. The order was withdrawn, however, in June 2012.\n\nOn 1 November 2013, in response to a petition by rival e-License Inc., the Tokyo High Court declared that JASRAC's fee levying system impeded competition within the industry and made it extremely difficult for other organizations to enter the market.\n\nIn February 2017, JASRAC sparked a controversy that they announced they would start collecting copyright fees off of music schools.. In response to this, many schools, including Yamaha Music Foundation across japan filed a petition, arguing that it would lead to increased tuition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "577571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577571", "title": "Lanham Act", "text": "Lanham Act\n\nThe Lanham (Trademark) Act (, codified at et seq. ()) is the primary federal trademark statute of law in the United States. The Act prohibits a number of activities, including trademark infringement, trademark dilution, and false advertising.\n\nNamed for Representative Fritz G. Lanham of Texas, the Act was passed on July 5, 1946, and signed into law by President Harry Truman, taking effect \"one year from its enactment\", on July 6, 1947. In rare circumstances, a conflict will arise between trademarks that have been in use since before the Lanham Act went into effect, thus requiring the courts to examine the dispute according to the trademark act that existed before the Lanham Act.\n\nThe Act has been amended several times since its enactment. Its impact was significantly enhanced by the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, which made the intentional use of a counterfeit trademark or the unauthorized use of a counterfeit trademark an offense under Title 18 of the United States Code, and enhanced enforcement remedies through the use of \"ex parte\" seizures and the award of treble profits or damages (whichever is greater).\n\nIn 1999, the Anticybersquatting Consumer Protection Act inserted , and amended .\n\n§§ 42 and 43 of the Act (now known as ) set out the remedies that can be sought when a trademark is infringed. These provisions forbid the importation of goods that infringe registered trademarks, and restrict, through the use of injunctions and damages, the use of false descriptions and trademark dilution.\n\n§ 43(a) () is the \"likelihood of confusion\" standard for infringement of an unregistered trademark or trade dress, and courts still frequently refer to the provision as \"Section 43(a)\":\n\nThe Act has been held to have extraterritorial impact, and the circuit courts have been giving more favorable interpretations in extending its scope. The original ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States, as interpreted by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, contemplates a three-part test in determining whether the Act applies (where at least two factors must be met):\n\n\nAlthough the Lanham Act sets out clear parameters as to what constitutes trademark infringement, subsequent court decisions, especially those involving the Internet, have loosened the strictures.\n\nIn 2003, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the law had no impact on public domain works in \"Dastar Corp. v. Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp.\"\n\nIn 2014, the various interpretations that had been adopted by the circuit courts as to who had standing to sue under were ousted by the Court in \"Lexmark Int'l v. Static Control Components\", where Justice Scalia adopted a multi-step approach:\n\n\nIn 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"POM Wonderful LLC v. Coca-Cola Co.\" that the Act complemented the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, allowing a company to sue for infringement by way of civil action.\n\nIn \"Matal v. Tam\" in 2017, the Supreme Court ruled that a provision in of the Act, denying registration to any trademarks seen as disparaging an individual or group, was an unconstitutional restriction of applicants' freedom of speech.\n\nIn the United States Code, the Act has been divided into four subchapters:\n\nSubchapter I sets forth the requirements that a mark must meet to receive a registration on the Principal Register, which bestows various rights on the trademark owner to prevent others from infringing their mark. Among the requirements are prohibitions against the registration of marks that are confusingly similar to existing marks, are generic or merely descriptive, are scandalous or immoral, or fall onto certain other prohibited categories. Subchapter I also sets forth certain procedural requirements, such as the submission of an affidavit of continued use after five years of registration.\n\nSubchapter II sets forth a form of registration on the Supplemental Register, for certain marks that are unregistrable under Subchapter I, but may become registrable in the future, such as those that are merely descriptive. This form of registration, while not granting all the protections of registration on the Principal Register, does provide notice to potential infringers that the mark is in use, and also provides some procedural benefits.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9147956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9147956", "title": "Library Services and Construction Act", "text": "Library Services and Construction Act\n\nThe Library Services and Construction Act, enacted in 1962 by the U.S. Congress, provides federal assistance to libraries in the United States for the purpose of improving or implementing library services or undertaking construction projects.\n\nThe 88th U.S. Congressional session passed the S. 2265 bill which the 36th President of the United States Lyndon B. Johnson enacted into law on February 11, 1964.\n\nSince public libraries depended on local taxes, sometimes there would be a struggle for funding, especially in rural areas. After the Great Depression in 1929 and the creation of the Works Progress Administration in 1935, part of Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal, the American Library Association (ALA) realized federal funding was the best solution. In 1956, the ALA was finally able to persuade Congress to pass the Library Services Act, which provided funds for public library initiatives but did not extend to buildings or land.\n\nInfluenced by the civil rights movement of the 1960s, a primary aim of the Library Services and Construction Act was to provide funding for underserved and/or disadvantaged communities in need of library service. Some of these groups include but are not limited to the institutionalized, the physically handicapped, low-income families, senior citizens, and ethnic minorities.\n\nIn its thirty-year history, the Library Services and Construction Act has undergone numerous reauthorizations. Each amendment has been dictated by changing needs in the library community, and these needs have been identified and voiced by state librarians and public library directors alike. Some of these amendments include appropriations for literacy programs and the acquisition of foreign-language materials. While changes to the Library Services and Construction Act have sought to keep this piece of legislation current, through the years many have voiced opposition to certain aspects of this act.\n\nFederally funded, many programs for the purpose of educational and social development have more traditionally been a fiscal responsibility of each individual state. Though with shrinking state budgets, a shift to a state-funded program for library services and construction seemed somewhat unfeasible. Additionally, a re-examination of which library services should be preserved and which should be abandoned has been suggested. Perhaps as a result of this opposition, in 1995 the LSCA was replaced by the Library Services and Technology Act (LSTA), dropping construction from the federal funding available.\n\nIts change of title in 1995 notwithstanding, numerous library programs and services have been initiated by funds through the Library Services and Construction Act, and continue to depend on those funds for their existence. An example of one program funded through the LSCA is Project PLUS (Promoting Larger Units of Service). This program uses federal funding so that library systems can demonstrate the services of a library to a group of unserved residents, so that they may experience what services and resources would be available to them if a referendum was passed in their community and a library was established. While programs such as Project PLUS have provided success stories from the funds provided by the LSCA, discussion will undoubtedly continue as to the legitimacy and necessity of federal funds for libraries throughout the country.\n"}
{"id": "36731218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36731218", "title": "List of Finnish lawyers", "text": "List of Finnish lawyers\n\nA list of notable Finnish lawyers:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6100089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6100089", "title": "Megaupload", "text": "Megaupload\n\nMegaupload Ltd was a Hong Kong-based online company established in 2005 that operated from 2005 to 2012 providing online services related to file storage and viewing.\n\nOn 19 January 2012, the United States Department of Justice seized the domain names and closed down the sites associated with Megaupload after the owners were arrested and indicted for allegedly operating as an organization dedicated to copyright infringement. Subsequently, HK$330 million (approximately US$42 million) worth of assets were frozen by the Customs and Excise Department of Hong Kong. The company's founder, New Zealand resident Kim Dotcom, has denied any wrongdoing, and the case against Dotcom has been the subject of controversy over its legality. In 2017, a New Zealand judge ruled that Dotcom should be extradited to the United States, but Dotcom remained at liberty in New Zealand pending the results of an appeal. On 5 July 2018 the New Zealand court of appeal found Dotcom and three of his former colleagues were eligible to be extradited to the U.S. authorities. His lawyer said they would appeal to the New Zealand Supreme Court. The shutdown of Megaupload led to denial-of-service (DoS) attacks on a range of websites belonging to the U.S. government and copyright organizations by the Hacktivist group Anonymous.\n\nOn , Megaupload was re-launched as Mega under the domain name mega.co.nz (later moved to mega.nz). The re-launch date was chosen to coincide with the one-year anniversary of Megaupload's takedown by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.\n\nThe company's registered office was on the 12th floor of the Shanghai Industrial Investment Building in Room 1204 in Wan Chai, Hong Kong.\n\nThe company web services included Megaupload.com, a one-click hosting service; Megapix.com, an image hosting; Megavideo.com and Megalive.com, video hosting services; and Megabox.com, a music hosting service. Other services included Megaclick, Megafund, Megakey and Megapay, all of which were advertisement and financial services. Two additional services—Megabackup and Megamovie—were in development before their closure.\n\n\nMegaupload also released its upload/download manager, Mega Manager, a download manager that featured a link-checker for Megaupload links as well as options to manage uploaded files, and to access the online control box that was on MegaUpload.\n\nMegakey was an adware application which removed bandwidth limitations on Mega services during \"happy hour\" periods. In return, the users running Megakey agreed to supply some personal identification and demographic data and to allow the substitution of ads on third party websites they visited with those of Megaupload.\n\nMegabox, a new form of media downloading site, was the first of its kind. Kim \"Dotcom\" described Megabox as \"very similar to iTunes\" except that it operated in a web browser using HTML5 technology and loaded \"much faster than iTunes or anything else out there\".\n\nFileBox was a Flash applet that could be embedded onto any external webpage. It allowed users to upload content to Megaupload without having to visit the website itself or download the Mega Manager.\n\nAlthough incorporated in Hong Kong, the company did not operate in Hong Kong. From 2009 onward, users with Hong Kong IP addresses were banned from accessing the site. The reason for the block was never disclosed by Megaupload, but Hong Kong Customs officials have suggested that the block was an attempt to hinder law enforcement investigation.\n\nAs of 23 May 2010, access to Megaupload was intermittently blocked by the internet authorities in Saudi Arabia by their regulator Communications and Information Technology Commission. Megavideo was also intermittently blocked in the United Arab Emirates due to pornographic content being accessible through the service.\n\nFrom 9 June 2011 onward, the Malaysian government through Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission ordered all ISPs in Malaysia to block Megaupload and Megavideo. Some ISPs reportedly blocked all the sites on the list while other ISPs throttled connection speeds.\n\nIn July 2011, access to Megaupload and Megavideo were blocked in India for Reliance Entertainment customers, after a court order was obtained, citing illegal copies of the 2011 film \"Singham\" on file hosting sites.\n\nOn 19 January 2012, U.S. federal prosecutors in the state of Virginia shut Megaupload down and laid charges against its founder Kim Dotcom and others for allegedly breaching copyright infringement laws.\n\nFor a short time after the closure of the site, users could access material via Google's web cache and The Internet Archive. One day after the indictment Google and Archive.org voluntarily removed the site mirrors to avoid the responsibility of hosting a website taken down for copyright infringement.\n\nIn January 2011, MarkMonitor published a report entitled \"Traffic Report: Online Piracy and Counterfeiting\", which said that Megaupload and Megavideo were, along with RapidShare, the top three websites classified as \"digital piracy\", with more than 21 billion visits per year. Megaupload responded by stating: \"Activity that violates our terms of service or our acceptable use policy is not tolerated, and we go to great lengths to swiftly process legitimate DMCA takedown notices\". Mark Mulligan, an analyst at Forrester Research, pointed out that the number of visits did not necessarily indicate the number of downloads of illegal material.\n\nMegaupload Toolbar was said to redirect users to a custom error page when a 404 error occurred in the user's browser. It was also said to contain spyware. FBM Software said that the Megaupload toolbar is free of spyware.\n\nWhen a file is uploaded to Megaupload and another file with the same hash is already found to exist, the uploader is asked if they would like to link to the already existing file. Therefore, a single file may contain multiple links to it. This has caused some controversy, since when a DMCA takedown notice is issued only the link that was provided is removed; not necessarily the file itself.\n\nOn 9 December 2011, Megaupload published a music video entitled \"The Mega Song\", showing artists including Kanye West, Alicia Keys and will.i.am endorsing the company. Snoop Dogg appeared in earlier versions of the video. The music video was also uploaded to YouTube, but was removed following a takedown request by the record company Universal Music Group (UMG). Megaupload said that the video contained no infringing content, commenting: \"we have signed agreements with every featured artist for this campaign\". Megaupload requested an apology from UMG, and filed a lawsuit against the company in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, on 12 December 2011. UMG denied that the takedown was ordered under the terms of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and said that the takedown was \"pursuant to the UMG-YouTube agreement,\" which gives UMG \"the right to block or remove user-posted videos through YouTube's CMS (Content Management System) based on a number of contractually specified criteria.\" The video was subsequently returned to YouTube, with the reasons for the UMG takedown remaining unclear. YouTube stated: \"Our partners do not have the right to take down videos from YT unless they own the rights to them or they are live performances controlled through exclusive agreements with their artists, which is why we reinstated it.\" Lawyers for will.i.am initially said that he had never agreed to the project, but on 12 December, he denied any involvement in the takedown notice.\n\nOn 19 January 2012 the United States Department of Justice seized and shut down the file-hosting site Megaupload.com and commenced criminal cases against its owners and others. The lead prosecutor, Neil MacBride, had formerly served as Vice President, Anti-Piracy and General Counsel, of the Business Software Alliance, where he oversaw global anti-piracy enforcement and copyright policy. On 20 January Hong Kong Customs froze more than 300 million Hong Kong dollars (US$39 million) in assets belonging to the company.\n\nActing upon a US Federal prosecutor's request, the New Zealand Police arrested Dotcom and three other Megaupload executives in a leased $30 million mansion at Coatesville near Auckland on Friday, 20 January 2012 (NZDT, UTC+13). This was pursuant to a request from the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation that the four be extradited for racketeering and money laundering. The raid was timed for the birthday celebration of Dotcom. Assets worth $17 million including art works and cars were seized. The four men arrested were Kim Dotcom (founder; 38 years old, from Germany), Finn Batato (CMO; 38, from Germany), Mathias Ortmann (CTO and co-founder; 40, from Germany) and Bram van der Kolk (29, from the Netherlands).\n\nOn 23 January, Dotcom appeared in Auckland's North Shore District Court for a bail hearing. The crown argued against bail on the basis that he was a flight risk with a helicopter on his front lawn, while defence lawyers argued that the helicopter could not fly far enough to reach another country. They also said that Dotcom denied any criminal wrongdoing. Judge David McNaughton expressed concern at the discovery of two shotguns at Dotcom's mansion during the police raid, and deferred a decision on whether to grant bail, saying that he needed more time to review the submissions. The request for bail was turned down, with Judge McNaughton saying that \"he was denied due to the risk [that] Mr. Dotcom would flee jurisdiction and the possibility that if he reached Germany he wouldn't be extradited to face the charges\". On 3 February 2012, an appeal to the High Court of New Zealand upheld the decision to deny bail.\n\nOn 22 February 2012, North Shore District Court Judge Nevin Dawson overturned the previous rulings and granted bail to Kim Dotcom, saying that the risk of flight had diminished after his assets had been seized.\n\nOn 5 March 2012, a formal request for the extradition to the United States of Kim Dotcom and three other senior Megaupload staff was filed in a New Zealand court.\n\nOn 30 April 2012, the New Zealand High Court ruled that around $750,000 of Kim Dotcom's assets could be returned, including a Mercedes-Benz G55 AMG and Toyota Vellfire that had been seized during the raid on his home. The assets in 63 bank accounts and around thirty other vehicles remained in custody. A paperwork error by the New Zealand authorities meant that Kim Dotcom's property had been seized in January 2012 without giving proper notice. The restraining order on his property was granted in April 2012. During April 2012, US district court judge Liam O'Grady stated \"I frankly don't know that we are ever going to have a trial in this matter,\" as he found out that the company had never been formally served with criminal papers by the US.\n\nOn 28 June 2012, New Zealand High Court judge Justice Helen Winkelmann ruled that the search warrants used to raid the home of Kim Dotcom were invalid, saying \"The warrants did not adequately describe the offences to which they related. They were general warrants, and as such, are invalid.\"\n\nOn 10 July 2012, a decision on whether Kim Dotcom and other Megaupload employees should be extradited to the United States was delayed until March 2013, in order to allow further time for legal arguments to be heard. New Zealand judge Justice Helen Winklemann said that U.S. authorities would need to provide evidence of \"Internet piracy\" before Dotcom was extradited.\n\nOn 24 September 2012, New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key ordered an inquiry into whether staff at the Government Communications Security Bureau had unlawfully spied on Kim Dotcom and the other defendants in the case. Key commented \"I expect our intelligence agencies to operate always within the law. Their operations depend on public trust.\"\n\nOn 7 July 2014, it was reported that the proceedings to extradite Dotcom from New Zealand to the USA had been delayed until February 2015.\n\nOn 8 September 2014, the Court of Appeal ruled that the New Zealand Police is to return seized electronic devices unencrypted back to Dotcom and those involved.\n\nOn 23 December 2015, New Zealand judge Nevin Dawson ruled that Kim Dotcom, as well as three of his colleagues, can be extradited to the United States to face copyright infringement charges. Mr. Dotcom's lawyers said they would appeal the decision.\n\nThe indictment alleged that Megaupload differed from other online file storage businesses.\n\nMedia reports covering the case highlighted several points from the indictment used to support claims of illegal activity. The indictment provided instances alleged to show criminal behaviour, as well as indicating design points of Megaupload's operating model as being evidence of criminal intent:\n\n\nDefense attorney Ira Rothken says that the raid was unjustly swift and did not give his client the opportunity to defend himself, quoting a similar case involving YouTube as an example of a completely different turnout.\n\nLegal commentators point out that while the indictment may be correct and Megaupload might have acted as a criminal conspiracy as said, a number of points in the indictment are based upon selective interpretations and legal concepts (described in one article as \"novel theories\" of the law) and could be challenged in court. A \"Los Angeles Times\" analysis stated that the author was \"struck by how far the indictment goes to find something nefarious\"; likewise a TechDirt analysis concluded that while the founder of Megaupload had a significant history of \"flounting the law\", evidence has potentially been taken out of context or misrepresented and could \"come back to haunt other online services who are providing perfectly legitimate services\". Both analyses concur that other evidence could show criminality; the concerns were not irrefutable. The legal concerns included:\n\nThe US Digital Millennium Copyright Act provides safe harbor for sites that promptly take down infringing content. Safe harbor does not exist if the site has actual knowledge and does nothing about it. Moreover, the DMCA \"safe harbor\" is less important in criminal cases than civil cases because defeating the first element, lack of knowledge or awareness of infringement, may be easier for the prosecution than meeting the \"willfulness\" requirement for criminal copyright liability.\n\nIn Megaupload's case, the indictment alleges DMCA provisions were used for the appearance of legitimacy – the actual material was not removed, only some links to it were, takedowns agreement was approved based on business growth rather than infringement, and the parties themselves openly discussed their infringing activities. The indictment says that Megaupload executives:\n\n... are willfully infringing copyrights themselves on these systems; have actual knowledge that the materials on their systems are infringing (or alternatively know facts or circumstances that would make infringing material apparent); receive a financial benefit directly attributable to copyright-infringing activity where the provider can control that activity; and have not removed, or disabled access to, known copyright infringing material from servers they control.\"\n\nProsecutors said in the indictment that Megaupload was not DMCA compliant, and cited the example of an alleged infringer on the site known as \"VV.\" Over six years, VV had allegedly uploaded nearly 17,000 files to Megavideo.com, resulting in more than 334 million views. According to prosecutors, although numerous takedown e-mails had been sent, none of the files had been deleted.\n\nIn a television interview with 3 News, Kim Dotcom said he was not a \"piracy king\", and said that Megaupload had applied the provisions of the DMCA and went beyond it, by giving copyright holders direct rights to delete links. He also said that the indictment relied on a malicious interpretation of technical issues to construe its claim of criminal intent, and that there was significant legal use of Megaupload.\n\nKim Dotcom denied the charges filed against him and retained the services of Ira P. Rothken, an attorney who has defended several copyright infringement cases. Ira Rothken stated that there is no criminal liability for secondary copyright infringement under US law, quoting a similar case involving YouTube as an example of similar accusations which were dealt with as a civil case.\n\nDotcom initially hired Washington, D.C. attorney Robert Bennett, who had confirmed he was going to represent Megaupload in the copyright infringement case. On 22 January 2012, Bennett withdrew from the case due to a conflict of interest with another client. As of 23 January, attorney Paul Davison was quoted as representing Megaupload's founder, Kim Dotcom, in New Zealand. At the end of April 2012, a controversy emerged over legal representation. The law firm Quinn Emanuel, retained by Megaupload to argue for the retention of Megaupload's data, said in a motion filed to the court that there was a concerted effort by the United States Department of Justice to deny Megaupload fair legal representation. In the brief, Quinn Emanuel alleged that several law firms dropped out of the case after the DoJ informed them of potential conflicts of interest, arguing that they wanted to call clients of the firms as witnesses. Given the size of the Megaupload, Quinn Emanuel said this \"conflict of interest\" argument could be applied to any law firm with experience in intellectual property rights, denying Megaupload experienced representation in a case where both law and technical issues are involved. Quinn Emanuel received such a letter but rejected the DoJ's arguments.\nTechdirt argued that while the founder of Megaupload had a significant history of \"flouting the law\", evidence had potentially been taken out of context or misrepresented and could \"come back to haunt other online services who are providing perfectly legitimate services\". Eric Goldman, a professor of law at Santa Clara University, described the Megaupload case as \"a depressing display of abuse of government authority\". He pointed out that criminal copyright infringement requires that willful infringement has taken place, and that taking Megaupload offline had produced the \"deeply unconstitutional effect\" of denying legitimate users access to their data. Other legal commentators have expressed more skepticism toward Megaupload's likelihood of defending against charges of aiding and abetting copyright infringement on \"willfulness\" grounds if the allegations of fact in the indictment turn out to be true.\n\nThe defence has drawn on procedural errors by the prosecution to challenge the case and in a judgement at the end of May 2012, New Zealand judge David Harvey granted the defendants the right to the disclosure of evidence held by the FBI in preparation for the extradition trial. In his 81-page decision, he came to the assessment that the DoJ is attempting to use concepts of civil law, in particular secondary copyright infringement, in a criminal case, which creates legal issues. He also confirmed that the charges in the indictment relating to money laundering, racketeering and wire fraud are not separate criminal acts but are dependent on the claim of criminal secondary copyright infringement. In a separate development in the United States, the defense has challenged the case against Megaupload as a whole, saying the US has no jurisdiction over a foreign company and the seizure of Megaupload's assets was unlawful. A second brief points out numerous legal errors in the indictment, declaring it \"an experiment in stretching U.S. criminal law well past the breaking point.\"\n\nFollowing the seizure of Megaupload, concerns were raised as to what would happen to the files that had been uploaded by its users. On 20 January 2012, the Justice Department stated that \"It is important to note that Mega clearly warned users to keep copies of any files they uploaded\" adding that \"Megaupload.com expressly informed users through its Frequently Asked Questions ('FAQs') and its Terms of Service that users have no proprietary interest in any of the files on Megaupload's servers, they assume the full risk of complete loss or unavailability of their data, and that Megaupload can terminate site operations without prior notice.\" On 27 January 2012, U.S. Attorney Neil H. MacBride wrote:\n\nThe Mega Servers are not in the actual or constructive custody or control of the United States, but remain at the premises controlled by, and currently under the control of, Carpathia and Cogent. Should the defendants wish to obtain independent access to the Mega Servers, or coordinate third-party access to data housed on Mega Servers, the issue must be resolved directly with Cogent or Carpathia.\n\nIn response, on 30 January 2012, Carpathia Hosting denied having access to MegaUpload files and issued a press release stating\n\nCarpathia Hosting does not have, and has never had, access to the content on MegaUpload servers and has no mechanism for returning any content residing on such servers to MegaUpload's customers. The reference to the 2 February 2012 date in the Department of Justice letter for the deletion of content is not based on any information provided by Carpathia to the U.S. Government. We would recommend that anyone who believes that they have content on MegaUpload servers contact MegaUpload. Please do not contact Carpathia Hosting.\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has started a campaign to allow legitimate users of Megaupload in the US access to their data and wants the data preserved for that reason. It has chosen to represent one such legitimate user in court and thus has sided with Megaupload and Carpathia in asking the court to retain the data.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, Megaupload data negotiations began. Carpathia reported that maintaining the data costs over 9,000 USD a day, and wanted to seek a formal resolution on whether to delete the data or release it to interested parties. United States district court Judge Liam O'Grady ordered all parties to return to the negotiating table. The U.S. Department of Justice noted that 35 million USD had been paid by Megaupload to Carpathia, and alleged that Carpathia had knowingly profited from copyright infringement.\n\nLeaseWeb wiped all of Megaupload's data.\n\nFollowing the shutdown of the Megaupload website, the website of the United States Department of Justice and other websites were taken offline following concerted denial of service attacks attributed to Anonymous.\n\nGizmodo concurred that it was \"almost certainly the result of a quickly assembled DDoS [Distributed Denial of Service] attack—and easily the widest in scope and ferocity we've seen in some time\", commenting that \"if you had any doubts Anonymous is still a hacker wrecking ball, doubt no more\". Links posted in chatrooms and on Twitter, when clicked on by unsuspecting Internet users, ran a web version of the application known as the Low Orbit Ion Cannon.\nOn 19 January 2012, Anonymous released a statement on Pastebin.com taking responsibility for the mass attacks on websites including those of RIAA, MPAA, BMI, FBI, and others. According to the RT network, Anonymous described the attacks as \"the single largest Internet attack in its history\".\n\nOn 31 May 2013, a New Zealand court ordered police to return any items not relevant to the case and to provide copies of relevant material to Dotcom and his associates.\n\nFormer French president Nicolas Sarkozy said he was satisfied with the shutdown of the website. He found the site's operators were reaping \"criminal profits from the illegal distribution of copyrighted works\". \"The time has come for increased judicial and police co-operation between states\" in the fight against online copyright infringement, he said in a statement.\n\nWeb organisations have raised concerns about possible effects of the Megaupload case on the future of file sharing, cloud storage, and Internet commerce. Various commentators including John C. Dvorak, Glenn Greenwald, and Julian Sanchez have written on the topic as well, particularly as it relates US government powers to take down a web site without a trial, even without new laws like SOPA. In fact, the U.S. Dept of Justice was able to rely on PRO-IP, a law passed back in 2008, in order to shut down Megaupload.\n\nPeople who used Megaupload for personal and business storage, such as large audio and video files for family and work, have also voiced their complaints about the fact that they no longer had access to their files on the service. Examples cited in the media included staff at public interest group \"Public Knowledge\" who used it for large files, and Android cellphone software writers who described it as \"one of the best ways to distribute [software] ... There are a number of similar sites for this use, but Megaupload was always the fastest\".\n\nFile hosting websites limited the functionality of their services. FileSonic.com, one of the top ten file hosting services, withdrew the ability to share links to files. The site's main page added a banner stating \"All sharing functionality on FileSonic is now disabled. Our service can only be used to upload and retrieve files that you have uploaded personally.\" Other file hosting websites followed suit, including FileServe.com, FileJungle.com, Uploadstation.com, x7.to and 4shared.com, by shutting down, cancelling affiliate programs or allowing users to only download what they themselves uploaded. Another large file-sharing website, Uploaded.to, ceased services for users accessing from United States-based IP addresses.\n\nAccording to MediaFire CEO Derek Labian, he and his file hosting company are not concerned by the Megaupload incident because \"Megaupload was making a ridiculous amount of money with a ridiculously bad service... We don't have a business built on copyright infringement.\" A spokesperson for RapidShare similarly expressed a lack of concern, saying that \"file hosting itself is a legitimate business\", pointing out that Microsoft's SkyDrive operates on a similar basis.\n\nBTJunkie, a website indexing torrent files, shut down voluntarily on 6 February 2012. The file hosting site Turbobit.net blocked access to U.S. visitors, and QuickSilverScreen, a site offering streaming video links, closed on 7 February 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31387133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31387133", "title": "Ministry of Justice of Georgia", "text": "Ministry of Justice of Georgia\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Georgia (, \"sakartvelos iustitsiis saministro\") is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Georgia in charge of regulating activities in the justice system, overseeing the public prosecutor, maintaining the legal system and public order, protection of the public and instituting law reforms in Georgia. The ministry is headed by Tea Tsulukiani.\n\nThe development of the judicial system in Georgia dates back to Pharnavazi era when legislative functions were regulated by the People's Assembly and the Council of Elders. In 9th-10th centuries, the system was assigned to a state body called \"Darbazi\" (Chamber) which included clergy, aristocracy and the commons. This institution was in charge of issuing important legal documents, such as \"Samparavtmdzebnelo Law\" (Criminal Law), \"Bagrat Kurapalati Law\", \"Giorgi V Law\", \"Royal Court Regulations\", as well as translation and adaptation of international documents such as Law of Moses, Greek and Roman-Syrian laws, etc. A single collection of old documents was preserved and saved during the reign of Vakhtang VI in the beginning of the 18th century. The collection is known as the \"Book of Laws of Vakhtang VI\" (issued in 1703-1709).\n\nKing Vakhtang’s \"Dasturlamal\" (the Book of Regulations) has survived to the present day. Composed in 1707-1709, it contains description of the statesmen and assignment of their duties, survey and census of the population, economy, revenues, taxes and property accounts, etc. The duties assumed by the present day Minister of Justice of Georgia were divided among a Chancellor, Chief Bookkeeper and Chief Mandaturi (supervisor).\nDespite establishment of Russian rule over Georgia, Georgian laws continued to function until the beginning of the 20th century, when any practice of traditional judicial system was ceased upon occupation of Georgia by the Bolsheviks in 1918.\n\nThe first Ministry of Justice of independent Georgian Republic was established when the National Council of Georgia adopted an Act of Independence of Georgia on May 26, 1918 which functioned up until annexation of Georgia to Soviet Russia in 1921. According to the act of October 11, 1918, a Codification Subdivision was formed at the Ministry of Justice taking over the codification of legislation and publishing of official issue \"Collection of Laws and Resolutions of the Government\". \nAfter independence of Georgia was restored in 1991, the ministry was re-established.\n\nThe ministry is headed by the minister aided by three deputy ministers. The ministry carries out its activities in accordance with the resolution enacted by the Presidential Decree No. 541 dated November 7, 2008. As of January 2000, the Ministry of Justice acquired the most important competences, such as governing the penitentiary system and its organizational management, functions of Public and Civil Register (in 2004), governing State Archives (in 2004); organizational maintenance of effective governing system, as well as of State Commission of territorial settlement reform and activities of its workgroups (in 2006).\n\nMain functions of the ministry are protection of state interests at national and international courts and tribunals; identification of standards of active regulatory acts; bringing Georgian legislation in accordance with international guidelines; \nformation of the State Register; adjustment of emigration and migration procedures; regulation of Notary Functions, Public Registry Services, Civil Registry Services; maintaining State Archives; enforcement of court decisions; arrangement of the state representation at the European Court of Human Rights.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14513657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14513657", "title": "National Library of Estonia", "text": "National Library of Estonia\n\nThe National Library of Estonia () is a national public institution in Estonia, which operates pursuant to the National Library of Estonia Act. It was established as the parliamentary library of Estonia on December 21, 1918.\n\nAccording to the Act, the National Library of Estonia is the custodian of Estonian national memory and heritage, and acts as the repository centre of the Estonian literature and national bibliography, the main information provider for the Estonian parliament and many other constitutional institutions, a national centre of library and information sciences, a site for the continuing education of librarians, and also as a cultural centre.\n\nSince September 16, 2008 the Director General of the National Library is Ms. Janne Andresoo.\n\nThe National Library of Estonia is:\n\n\nThe National Library of Estonia provides information services in the following fields:\n\n\nRare book collection specialists offer consultations on old books. There are also archival services on the basis of the institution and personal collections located in the Library, conservation services and binding services available.\n\nE-library has been developed since the mid-1990s and is available on the homepage of the National Library of Estonia. It enables readers to:\n\n\nSome services are available only to the registered readers of the National Library. They can:\n\n\nOn January 1, 2007 the collection of the National Library of Estonia included 3,4 million items including:\n\n\nSince 1919 the National Library is entitled to receive legal deposit copies of all publications printed in Estonia.\n\nPublications in the Estonian language printed before 1861 and publications in foreign languages printed before 1831, including eight incunabula and 1,500 publications from the 16th and 17th centuries, are stored in the Rare Book Collection. Later publications include a selection of copies with autographs, manuscript amendments and ownership marks, censor’s copies, artistic bindings, bibliophile and luxury publications. In addition to 28,000 rare publications, the collection includes 150 manuscripts. Research on old books has been conducted in the library for over 50 years.\n\nThe oldest book in the rare book collection is a work of Lambertus de Monte, a theologian from Cologne, - \"Copulatasuper tres libros Aristotelis De Anima...\" (Cologne, 1486). The oldest Estonian publication is Heinrich Stahl's book of sermons \"Leyen Spiegel\" (Reval, 1641–1649) with parallel texts in Estonian and in German.\n\nOn December 21, 1918, the Provisional Government of the Estonian Republic took the decision to establish the State Library. The primary collection of the Library was about 2,000 titles necessary for lawmaking and government, and the first users were the members of Parliament (Riigikogu). The Library was situated in two small rooms of the Parliament building in the Toompea Castle.\n\nDuring the time of the independent Republic of Estonia from 1918–1940, the Library developed and grew fast. In 1919, the Library began to receive a legal deposit copy of all printed matter published in Estonia. In 1921, the first international exchange agreements were concluded. In 1935 the State Library established an Archival Collection of all publications in the Estonian language and about Estonia. This was the beginning of a systematic acquisition of printed matter on Estonia and the Baltic countries. In the 1930s, the State Library started to perform more functions than those of a parliamentary library – the collections comprised about 50,000 items and the readership included outstanding intellectuals, cultural and public figures.\n\nWith the Soviet occupation, the Library became a regular public library, known under the name of the State Library of the Estonian SSR. The role of the Library changed considerably: all links with foreign countries and their libraries were severed, and Russian publications predominated, mostly consisting of all-Union deposit copies. The bulk of Estonian and foreign publications was placed in restricted access collections. Between 1948 and 1992 the Library was housed in the former Estonian Knighthood House in Tallinn’s historic centre.\n\n1953, the Library was named after Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald, a leading man of letters of the Estonian National Awakening and the author of the Estonian national epic, \"Kalevipoeg\". The collections then amounted to one million items already.\n\nThe liberation movement that began in the Baltic countries in the 1980s and the restoration of the independent Republic of Estonia on August 20, 1991 considerably changed the role of the Library.\n\nIn 1988, the Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald State Library was renamed the National Library of Estonia with a mission to collect, preserve and provide access to all documents published in the Estonian language and in Estonia, and also about or including information on Estonia.\n\nIn 1989, the Library’s legal status as a parliamentary library was restored with an obligation to provide information services for the Riigikogu and the Government. The present National Library of Estonia is a legal entity in public law, which operates pursuant to the National Library of Estonia Act, adopted in 1998, and amended in 2002 and 2006, and its Statutes. Its collegial decision-making body is the National Library Board with members appointed by the Riigikogu.\n\nThe National Library building at Tõnismägi in Tallinn, specially designed for the library, was constructed between 1985 and 1993. The architect of the building is Raine Karp and its interior designer is Sulev Vahtra. The eight-storey building with two floors below ground level is until now the largest library in the Baltic countries. It houses 20 reading rooms with 600 reader’s seats, a large conference hall, a theatre hall and numerous exhibition areas. The Library’s stacks are designed to hold five million volumes. All stacks are equipped with shelves and air-conditioning, appropriate for preserving the documents.\n\n"}
{"id": "11000060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11000060", "title": "Paulet–Newcombe Agreement", "text": "Paulet–Newcombe Agreement\n\nThe Paulet–Newcombe Agreement or Paulet-Newcombe Line, was a 1923 agreement between the British and French governments regarding the position and nature of the boundary between the Mandates of Palestine and Mesopotamia, attributed to Great Britain, and the Mandate of Syria and the Lebanon, attributed to France.\n\nTogether with a preliminary 1920 agreement, these are known as the Franco-British Boundary Agreements.\n\nThe boundary between the forthcoming British and French mandates was first defined in broad terms in the 1920 \"Franco-British Convention on Certain Points Connected with the Mandates for Syria and the Lebanon, Palestine and Mesopotamia\", signed in Paris by the British Ambassador to France, Charles Hardinge and the French Foreign Minister, Georges Leygues, on 23 December 1920. That agreement placed the bulk of the Golan Heights in the French sphere. \n\nThe treaty also established a joint commission to settle the precise details of the border and mark it on the ground.\n\nThe commission submitted its final report on 3 February 1922, which included a number of amendments. The amendments included:\n\nIt was approved with some caveats by the French and British governments on 7 March 1923, several months before Britain and France assumed their Mandatory responsibilities on 29 September 1923.\n\nThe agreements fixed the line of the Syrian-Palestinian border (now the Syrian-Israeli border) between the Mediterranean Sea and the town of Al-Hamma. The 1923 agreement takes its name from French Lieutenant Colonel N. Paulet and British Lieutenant Colonel S. F. Newcombe, who were appointed to lead the Boundary Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14034053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14034053", "title": "Poulos v. New Hampshire", "text": "Poulos v. New Hampshire\n\nPoulos v. New Hampshire, 345 U.S. 395 (1953), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that a New Hampshire city ordinance regarding permission to hold a meeting in a public park did not violate the appellant's rights to Free Exercise of Religion even if he and his group were arbitrarily and unlawfully denied a license to hold a religious meeting in that public park.\n\nA Portsmouth, New Hampshire municipal ordinance provided that \"No theatrical or dramatic representation shall be performed or exhibited and no parade or procession upon any public street or way, and no open air public meeting upon any ground abutting thereon shall be permitted unless a license therefor shall first be obtained from the City Council.\"\n\nThe New Hampshire Supreme Court had construed the discretion vested in the city council as \"limited in its exercise by the bounds of reason, in uniformity of method of treatment upon the facts of each application, free from improper or inappropriate considerations and from unfair discrimination.\"\n\nThus, the discretion of the official was ministerial. The City could \"take one of its small parks and devote it to public and nonreligious purposes under a system which is administered fairly and without bias or discrimination.\" In fact, the City of Portsmouth denied all religious groups the privilege of using the park for religious services.\n\nThe Jehovah's Witnesses, who applied for a permit and were arbitrarily denied, nevertheless chose to hold a religious meeting in the public park. The preacher was arrested. They argued, as they had done on dozens of cases previously, that the arbitrary action of the city council was a defense to their \"illegal\" holding of the religious meeting.\n\nThe Court ruled in favor of the City, deciding that because no appeal to the denial was made, despite ample opportunity, punishment under the law was constitutional.\n\nJustice Reed delivered the opinion of the Court.\n\nJustice Douglas' approach to Free Exercise/Speech in this case was first articulated nearly a decade earlier in \"Murdock v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania\". He speaks of the \"preferred position\" granted freedom of speech, religion, press and assembly by the First Amendment. \"The case is therefore quite different from a legislative program in the field of business, labor, housing and the like where regulation is permissible.\" He quoted with approval Justice Roberts' opinion in \"Cantwell v. Connecticut\" to the effect that even if there was an available remedy (such as mandamus) for abuses in the system of licensing, it still leaves in its place a system of prior restraint that was arbitrarily exercised.\n\nDouglas was quite adamant: \"There is no free speech in the sense of the Constitution when permission must be obtained from an official before a speech can be made.\" Thus, for him, the case was an example of prior restraint of a privileged freedom, a freedom that could be exercised with impunity if it was improperly curtailed by civic officials.\n"}
{"id": "15605915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605915", "title": "Reconciliation (family law)", "text": "Reconciliation (family law)\n\nReconciliation in family law is the process by which parties who are legally separated resume their marital relationship and cohabitation.\n\nReconciliation is allowed because separation is revocable; state laws may require \"the joint application of the parties, accompanied with satisfactory evidence of their reconciliation ... by the court which rendered it, subject to such regulations and restrictions as the court thinks fit to impose.\"\n"}
{"id": "40752161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40752161", "title": "Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc.", "text": "Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc.\n\nReeves v. Sanderson Plumbing Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133 (2000), was a case before the United States Supreme Court concerning age discrimination in employment.\n\nIn 1995, 57-year-old Roger Reeves and Joe Oswalt, who was in his mid-thirties, were supervisors at Sanderson Plumbing Products, being managed by 45-year-old Russell Caldwell. Caldwell reported a drop in production in the summer of 1995 to the director of manufacturing, Powe Chesnut, who was also married to the president of the company, Sandra Sanderson. Chesnut investigated briefly, and determined that Reeves, Oswalt, and Caldwell had all made errors in tracking time worked by their employees. Chesnut recommended to Sanderson that she fire Reeves and Caldwell, and in October 1995, she followed that recommendation.\n\nIn June 1996, Reeves sued in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Mississippi under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. He alleged that Chesnut \"had demonstrated age-based animus\" while they were working together, and that he had \"absolute power\" to make employment decisions, due to his position and his relationship with the president of the company. That case ended with the judge instructing the jury that Reeves must prove that age \"was a determinative or motivating factor\" in the employment decision in order to find in favor of the plaintiff, and the jury returned a verdict awarding Reeves $35,000 in compensatory damages and an additional $35,000 in liquidated damages based on the willfulness of the discrimination.\n\nThe Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed, saying that Reeves did not provide enough evidence to prove that his age was the cause of the employment decision in question. This decision arose out of the determination that the discriminatory comments made by Chesnut \"were not made in the direct context of Reeves's termination\".\n\nThe court granted certiorari primarily to address the question of whether a \"prima facie\" case of discrimination is \"adequate to sustain a finding of liability for intentional discrimination\" against the employer, when \"sufficient evidence\" is provided to disprove the employer's defense of its decision.\n\nJustice O'Connor delivered the majority opinion. Her first task was to set out the context of the case, starting with explaining that she would assume that \"McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green\", 411 U.S. 792 (1973), was the relevant standard for analyzing a case brought under the ADEA, because nobody had disputed that fact, even though the court had never addressed that issue before. She also noted that they would assume that the plaintiff met his burden in laying out a \"prima facie\" case against the defendant, because again, nobody had disputed that contention, and ample supporting evidence had been presented.\n\nShe then turned to the next stage of the McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting framework to determine whether the defendant had then provided adequate evidence that the employment decision in question had been made for \"a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason.\" That burden, too, was met, according to O'Connor's analysis.\n\nThe final prong considered in the case was whether the plaintiff had provided, after the defendant's production of evidence of a nondiscriminatory reason for the decision, proof by \"a preponderance of the evidence\" that the defendant's reason is merely pretext. On this point, the court noted that most of the defendant's evidence for nondiscrimination was negated by the plaintiff at trial, and also that the Fifth Circuit agreed, but did not find this to be sufficient for a ruling in favor of Reeves. O'Connor explained that the Fifth Circuit was correct to think that the trial court \"could\" find in favor of the defendant if the nondiscriminatory reason was not disproven beyond a reasonable doubt, but they were mistaken in claiming that they were \"compelled\" to. The reasoning is that, if an employer is shown to be untruthful about the reason for a decision, they may be inferred to have been covering up actual discrimination.\n\nThe court stopped short of saying that a court \"must\" assume discrimination where a nondiscriminatory reason is shown to be false. The trier of fact may reasonably find for the employer where the plaintiff makes only a weak showing of evidence as to the untruth of the employer's defense, or where there is ample evidence of another nondiscriminatory reason that the employer did not offer.\n\nAfter determining that the trial court could have found in favor of Reeves, O'Connor turned to examining the procedural questions at hand. She determined that respondent had not been entitled to a judgment as a matter of law, both because there was a question of fact to be decided by a jury in evaluating the truth of the defendant's nondiscriminatory explanation, and because the court of appeals should have reviewed the entire record in a manner favorable to the nonmoving party, which in this case was Reeves.\n\nJustice Ginsburg concurred in the judgment but suggested that, because the court of appeals required Reeves to produce evidence that was neither a \"prima facie\" case nor evidence contradicting the defendant's proffered reasons, their decision could be overturned without any broader holding.\n\nShe also wrote separately to note that future cases may require the court to examine exactly which circumstances may give rise to the plaintiff being required to provide further evidence. She stated that such cases will be rare, because a dishonest defendant may be assumed to have some level of culpability, based on a fundamental principle of evidence law.\n\nThis case lays out a framework for determining liability as part of the McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting framework, and clarifies parts of that framework as it applies to cases where the employer's reasons for making the decision are shown to be false. This was also the first case brought under the ADEA where the Supreme Court used the McDonnell Douglas framework to make their decision, though they left that question open for another case to decide, mostly because they weren't asked to rule on the matter.\n"}
{"id": "44521612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44521612", "title": "Rolls-Royce New Zealand Ltd v Carter Holt Harvey Ltd", "text": "Rolls-Royce New Zealand Ltd v Carter Holt Harvey Ltd\n\nRolls-Royce New Zealand Ltd v Carter Holt Harvey Ltd [2005] 1 NZLR 324 is decision of the Court of Appeal of New Zealand regarding tort claims in situations where a claim can be in both tort and contract.\n\nCarter Holt entered into a contract with ECNZ (now Genesis Energy) for them to construct a cogeneration plant at their Kinleith paper mill that would be fueled by waste byproduct from the mill, with the contract having a non liability clause.\n\nECNZ in turn subcontracted the work to Rolls Royce.\n\nProblems later were experienced with the generators that were installed, and CHH sued ECNZ for breach of contract. As there was no contract between CHH and Rolls Royce, they were sued for negligence in tort.\n\nRolls Royce applied for the tort claim against them to be struck out on the basis that ECNZ could not have a claim in both contract and tort.\n\nThe court ruled where parties are involved in complex commercial relationships, there could only be duties owed in contract, and not in tort. Accordingly, the court granted Rolls Royces application to strike out part of the claim.\n\nHowever, the court did leave open to a claim in tort still being arguable for misrepresentation claims in tort, as per in Hedley Byrne.\n"}
{"id": "38374484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38374484", "title": "Russian Constitution of 1918", "text": "Russian Constitution of 1918\n\nThe first constitution of Russia, also called the Basic Law (Основной закон, \"Osnovnoy zakon\") which governed the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic, described the regime that assumed power in the October Revolution of 1917. This constitution, which was ratified soon after the \"Declaration Of Rights Of The Working And Exploited People\", formally recognized the working class as the ruling class of Russia according to the principle of the dictatorship of the proletariat, therein making the Russian SFSR the world's first constitutionally socialist state.\n\nThe ultimate aims of the state were outlined as: \"the abolition of the exploitation of men by men, the entire abolition of the division of the people into classes, the suppression of exploiters, [and] the establishment of a socialist society.\" The constitution stated that an historical alliance had been formed between the workers and peasants, who together would govern the state through the soviets. The constitution explicitly denied political power to higher classes of Russian society or to those who supported the White armies in the Civil War (1918–21). To prevent the higher classes from re-claiming state power, the first article called for all workers and peasants to be armed and organized into a Red Army while the higher classes be fully disarmed.\n\nSupreme power rested with the All-Russian Congress of Soviets, made up of deputies from local soviets across Russia. The steering committee of the Congress of Soviets—known as the Central Executive Committee—acted as the \"supreme organ of power\" between sessions of the congress and as the collective presidency of the state.\n\nThe congress elected the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom, \"Sovet narodnykh kommissarov\") as the administrative arm of the young government and defined its responsibilities as \"general administration of the affairs of the state\". (The Sovnarkom had exercised governmental authority from November 1917 until the adoption of the 1918 constitution July 10 by the Congress of Soviets.)\n\nOne of the first Soviet iterations of a perennial biblical phrase appeared in Article 18, which declares labour to be the duty of all citizens of the Republic, and sloganeers: 'He who does not work, neither shall he eat!'\n\nImportantly, the 1918 Russian Constitution's main principles served as a precursor to the ensuing constitutions of both united and autonomous Soviet republics. They were recognized as fundamental to the 1924 Soviet Constitution, which was the formative document of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.\n\n"}
{"id": "27399313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27399313", "title": "Solar Decathlon Europe", "text": "Solar Decathlon Europe\n\nThe Solar Decathlon Europe is an international competition that challenges collegiate teams to design and build houses powered exclusively by the sun. The winner of the competition is the team able to score the most points in 10 contests.\n\nOn Oct. 18, 2007, the Spanish and U.S. governments signed a memorandum of understanding in which the Spanish Ministry of Housing committed to organize and host Solar Decathlon Europe. The agreement was signed in Washington, D.C., next to the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid’s Casa Solar during the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2007 competition. The American signatory was Alexander A. Karsner, assistant secretary of the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Department of the U.S. Department of Energy, with Fernando Magro Fernández, undersecretary of housing of the Ministry of Housing representing the Spanish government.\n\nModeled after the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon, the first Solar Decathlon Europe took place in Madrid, Spain, in June 2010. Decathletes from 17 teams spent 10 days competing in the Villa Solar near the Royal Palace of Madrid (Palacio Real). A combination of task completion, measurement, and jury scoring determined Solar Decathlon Europe's first champion: Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University with Lumenhaus project.\n\nFinal results :\n\nSecond edition of the Solar Decathlon Europe was held from Sept. 14–30, 2012, in Madrid, Spain in the Casa de Campo. The final standings of its 18 competitors were ::\n\nSolar Decathlon Europe 2014 took place in Versailles, France, June 28–July 14, 2014.\n\nOfficial final results: \n\nAnd substitute teams:\n\n\n\nPotential candidate cities \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39485830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39485830", "title": "Spanish Constitution of 1876", "text": "Spanish Constitution of 1876\n\nThe Spanish Constitution of 1876 (), was the constitution enacted after the restoration of the Spanish monarchy. It came into effect on 30 June 1876.\n\n"}
{"id": "435453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435453", "title": "Special prosecutor", "text": "Special prosecutor\n\nIn the United States, a special prosecutor (or special counsel, independent counsel, and independent prosecutor) is a lawyer appointed to investigate, and potentially prosecute, a particular case of suspected wrongdoing for which a conflict of interest exists for the usual prosecuting authority. Other jurisdictions have similar systems. For example, the investigation of an allegation against a sitting President or attorney-general might be handled by a special prosecutor rather than by an ordinary prosecutor who would otherwise be in the position of investigating their own superior. Investigations into other persons connected to the government but not in a position of direct authority over the prosecutor, such as cabinet secretaries or election campaigns, have also been handled by special prosecutors.\n\nWhile the most prominent special prosecutors have been those appointed since the 1870s to investigate presidents and those connected to them, the term can also be used to refer to any prosecutor appointed to avoid a conflict of interest or appearance thereof. The concept originates in state law: \"state courts have traditionally appointed special prosecutors when the regular government attorney was disqualified from a case, whether for incapacitation or interest.\" Because district attorneys' offices work closely with police, some activists argue that cases of police misconduct at the state and local level should be handled by special prosecutors.\n\nThe terms 'special prosecutor', 'independent counsel', and 'special counsel' have the same fundamental meaning, and their use (at least at the federal level in the U.S.) is generally differentiated by the time period to which they are being applied. The term 'special prosecutor' was used throughout the Watergate era, but was replaced by the less confrontational 'independent counsel' in the 1983 reauthorization of the Ethics in Government Act. Those appointed under that act after 1983 are generally referred to as 'independent counsels'. Since the independent counsel law expired in 1999, the term 'special counsel' has been used. This is the term used in the current U.S. government regulations concerning the appointment of special counsels.\n\nWhile the term 'special prosecutor' is sometimes used in historical discussions of such figures before 1983, the term 'special counsel' appears to have been frequently used as well, including, for example, in contemporary newspaper accounts describing the first presidentially-appointed special counsel in 1875.\n\nThe first federal special prosecutor, John B. Henderson, was appointed by Ulysses Grant in 1875 to investigate the Whiskey Ring scandal. After attempting to stifle Henderson's investigation of the president's personal secretary, Grant fired Henderson on the basis that Henderson's statements to a grand jury regarding Grant were impertinent. Following criticism, Grant appointed a new special prosecutor, James Broadhead, to continue the investigation.\n\nJames Garfield appointed the next special prosecutor, William Cook, in 1881 to investigate the Star route scandal. Cook continued his investigation into the Chester Arthur administration. Under the Theodore Roosevelt administration, special prosecutors were appointed to investigate two scandals. In 1903, Roosevelt appointed two special prosecutors (a Democrat and a Republican) to investigate allegations of bribery at the Post Office Department. In 1905, Roosevelt's attorney general, Philander Knox, appointed Francis Heney special prosecutor to investigate the Oregon land fraud scandal.\n\nCalvin Coolidge appointed two special counsels, Atlee Pomerene and Owen Roberts to investigate the Teapot Dome scandal. This appointment was unique in that it was mandated under a special Congressional joint resolution, and was subject to approval in the Senate, similarly to a cabinet appointment. This process was unique in the history of federal special prosecutors.\n\nIn 1952, Harry Truman appointed Newbold Morris \"special assistant to the Attorney General\" to investigate the corruption at the Bureau of Internal Revenue following Congressional pressure and calls for a special prosecutor. After Morris submitted a lengthy questionnaire on personal finances to be completed by all senior executive officers, he was fired by Attorney General Howard McGrath, who was in turn fired by the president. Following the appointment of a new attorney general, the investigation was continued through regular channels.\n\nBefore his May 25, 1973, appointment as Richard Nixon's attorney general, Elliott Richardson had agreed at his Senate confirmation hearing to appoint a Watergate special prosecutor, and so immediately on taking office appointed Archibald Cox under a special one-time regulation. As part of his investigation, in July of that year, Cox first requested and then subpoenaed the Nixon White House tapes; secret recordings Nixon had made of conversations in the Oval Office and elsewhere. The Nixon administration refused to produce the tapes citing executive privilege, and the dispute was fought in court until October.\n\nAfter a Court of Appeals instructed the president to comply with the special prosecutor's subpoena, Nixon ordered the special prosecutor fired. In a constitutional crisis that became known as the Saturday Night Massacre, both the attorney general and deputy attorney general (who had both made promises regarding the special prosecutor in their Senate confirmation hearings) resigned rather than carry out the order to fire Cox. Solicitor General Robert Bork, who was third in line at the Department of Justice, then fired Cox. Initially, the Nixon White House announced that the office of the special prosecutor had been abolished, but after public outcry Nixon instead had Bork appoint Leon Jaworski as the second Watergate special prosecutor. The firing was ruled illegal in the case of Nader v. Bork, but, as a new special prosecutor had already been appointed, the case was already moot when decided, and the decision was never appealed past the district court.\n\nJaworski continued Cox's pursuit of the White House tapes, but Nixon resisted. He raised separation of powers questions under the U.S. Constitution. Since the special counsel is a member of the executive branch, Nixon argued that the special counsel is ultimately answerable to the president and that the president could not be compelled by a subpoena issued by his own subordinate. The tapes were ultimately released following the Supreme Court decision in \"United States v. Nixon\". Nixon resigned the presidency on August 9, 1974, and Jaworski resigned about two and a half months later, to be replaced by his (and Cox's) deputy, Henry Ruth Jr.—who in turn resigned in 1975, leaving Charles Ruff the fourth and final Watergate special prosecutor.\n\nActing under his existing appointment as Watergate special prosecutor, Ruff conducted an unrelated investigation into whether Gerald Ford had misused campaign funds while a congressman, clearing the new president of any wrongdoing.\n\nInspired in part by Watergate, in 1978 Congress passed the Ethics in Government Act. Title VI of this act was known as the Special Prosecutor Act and later renamed the Independent Counsel Act, which established formal rules for the appointment of a special prosecutor. The appointment of special prosecutors varied in important ways from appointments made before and since. Majorities of either party within the House or Senate Judiciary Committee could formally request the attorney general to appoint a special prosecutor on a particular matter, but the decision of whether or not to appoint the independent counsel remained with the attorney general and was not reviewable in court. If the attorney general decided not to appoint an independent counsel in response to such a request, they were only required to respond in writing with the reasons. Although the decision to appoint a special prosecutor was still made by the attorney general, the actual selection of the special prosecutor was made by a three-judge panel called the Special Division, selected from the Courts of Appeals. The law did not allow special prosecutors to be removed except under specific circumstances such as wrongdoing or incapacitation. The special prosecutor provisions in the bill were temporary but were reauthorized by Congress in 1983 and 1987, expiring five years later in 1992, they were reinstated for another five years in 1994 before expiring again in 1999. The constitutionality of the law was affirmed by a 7–1 decision of the Supreme Court in the case of \"Morrison v. Olson\".\n\nRoughly twenty special prosecutors (called independent counsels after 1983) were appointed under the Ethics in Government Act and its reauthorizations during the Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Bill Clinton administrations. These include significant investigations into the Iran–Contra affair and the Whitewater controversy, the latter of which ultimately led to the impeachment of Bill Clinton over the Lewinsky scandal. Numerous smaller investigations into cabinet secretaries for relatively minor offenses, such as drug use, were also carried out by independent counsels during this period.\n\nDuring the period 1992–1994 when the independent counsel provisions were not in force, Attorney General Janet Reno appointed Robert Fiske special counsel to investigate Whitewater. When the law was reauthorized in 1994, Reno invoked it to order an independent counsel be appointed to investigate Whitewater, and suggested Fiske continue in that role. Instead, Ken Starr was given the job by the three-judge panel. Starr resigned and was replaced by Robert Ray in 1999 just before the expiration of the independent counsel statute. Ray formally concluded the Whitewater investigation in 2003.\n\nSince the expiration of the independent counsel statute in 1999, there has been no federal statutory law governing the appointment of a special counsel. Upon the law's expiration in 1999, the Justice Department, under Attorney General Janet Reno, promulgated procedural regulations governing the appointment of special counsels.\n\nIn 1999, these regulations were used by Reno to appoint John Danforth special counsel to investigate the FBI's handling of the Waco siege.\n\nIn 2003, during the George W. Bush administration, Patrick Fitzgerald was appointed special counsel to investigate the Plame affair by Deputy Attorney General James Comey after the recusal of Attorney General John Ashcroft.\n\nOn May 17, 2017, former FBI Director Robert Mueller was appointed special counsel to take over the previous FBI investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein after the recusal of Attorney General Jeff Sessions.\n\nIn 1999, the Department of Justice under Attorney General Janet Reno promulgated regulations for the future appointment of special counsels. As of 2018, these regulations remain in effect in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 28, part 600 (28 CFR §600). The regulations restrict the power to fire the special counsel into the hands of the attorney general alone, and they forbid the firing of the special counsel without good cause. They are internal Department of Justice regulations deriving their power from various acts of Congress, such as U.S. Code, Title 28, section 510 (28 U.S.C. 510). Congress has the power to directly limit the firing of special counsels or to delegate that power to the Attorney General. An agency regulation promulgated within the authority granted by statute has the force and effect of law, is binding upon the body that issues it, and can't be arbitrarily revoked.\n\nThe existence of a law or regulations specifying the process to appoint a special counsel has not stopped the attorney general (or acting attorney general) from using their statutory authority to appoint a special counsel by other means, as has happened twice. Despite the passage of the Ethics in Government Act the previous year, Paul Curran was appointed to investigate Jimmy Carter's peanut business in 1979 under the attorney general's statutory authority (and was selected by him rather than by a three-judge panel as under the law), ostensibly because the alleged wrongdoing preceded the passage of the act. Patrick Fitzgerald's appointment as special counsel in 2003 was specifically not made under the 28 CFR 600 regulation. The special counsel regulations specify that a special counsel must be a lawyer from outside the US government, while Fitzgerald was already a federal prosecutor at the time of his appointment.\n\nThe decision to appoint a special counsel rests with the attorney general (or acting attorney general). The current special counsel regulations specify that:\n\nThe attorney general sets the subject jurisdiction of the special counsel:\n\nThe choice of whom to appoint is to be made by the attorney general with the following guidelines:\n\nGenerally, the special counsel him or herself decides when an investigation will terminate, with or without formal charges being pursued. The special counsel typically issues a final report on their investigation at this time. The current special counsel regulations specify that \"At the conclusion of the Special Counsel's work, he or she shall provide the Attorney General with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the Special Counsel.\"\n\nThe current special counsel regulations specify that:\n\nSince the expiration of the independent counsel provisions in the Ethics in Government Act in 1999, as was the case before 1978, neither Congress nor the courts have any official role in the appointment of a special counsel; however Congress can use other powers to pressure an administration into appointing a special counsel. This happened, for example, in the appointment of Watergate special prosecutor Archibald Cox; senators secured a promise from Attorney General nominee Richardson to appoint a Watergate special prosecutor as a condition of his confirmation. Congress also has independent authority to investigate the president and their close associates through Congressional hearings as part of its government oversight role.\n\nSpecial prosecutors are appointed in state court with greater frequency than federal, and most often in cases where a conflict of interest arises or to avoid even the appearance such a conflict exists. In local state governments, special prosecutors are appointed by a judge, government official, organization, company or group of citizens to prosecute violations of law committed by one or more governmental agents and procure indictments for actions taken under color of state law. Unlike in courts having federal jurisdiction, where the terms \"special counsel\" and \"independent counsel\" have a uniform definition, in state court meanings of legal terms continually vary, but with \"special prosecutor\" referencing the appointment of an attorney (supra) in contemplation of representation and prosecution of one or more government agent(s) for unlawful conduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "22400875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22400875", "title": "Stem cell laws", "text": "Stem cell laws\n\nStem cell laws are the law rules, and policy governance concerning the sources, research, and uses in treatment of stem cells in humans. These laws have been the source of much controversy and vary significantly by country. In the European Union, stem cell research using the human embryo is permitted in Sweden, Spain, Finland, Belgium, Greece, Britain, Denmark and the Netherlands; however, it is illegal in Germany, Austria, Ireland, Italy, and Portugal. The issue has similarly divided the United States, with several states enforcing a complete ban and others giving support. Elsewhere, Japan, India, Iran, Israel, South Korea, China, and Australia are supportive. However, New Zealand, most of Africa (except South Africa), and most of South America (except Brazil) are restrictive.\n\nThe information presented here covers the legal implications of embryonic stem cells (ES), rather than induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). The laws surrounding the two differ because while both have similar capacities in differentiation, their modes of derivation are not. While embryonic stem cells are taken from embryoblasts, induced pluripotent stem cells are undifferentiated from somatic adult cells.\n\nStem cells are cells found in most, if not all, multi-cellular organisms. A common example of a stem cell is the hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) which are multipotent stem cells that give rise to cells of the blood lineage. In contrast to multipotent stem cells, embryonic stem cells are pluripotent and are thought to be able to give rise to all cells of the body. Embryonic stem cells were isolated in mice in 1981, and in humans in 1998.\n\nStem cell treatments are a type of cell therapy that introduce new cells into adult bodies for possible treatment of cancer, somatic cell nuclear transfer, diabetes, and other medical conditions. Cloning also might be done with stem cells. Stem cells have been used to repair tissue damaged by disease.\n\nBecause Embryonic Stem (ES) cells are cultured from the embryoblast 4–5 days after fertilization, harvesting them is most often done from donated embryos from \"in vitro\" fertilization (IVF) clinics. In January 2007, researchers at Wake Forest University reported that \"stem cells drawn from amniotic fluid donated by pregnant women hold much of the same promise as embryonic stem cells.\"\n\nThe European Union has yet to issue consistent regulations with respect to stem cell research in member states. Whereas Germany, Austria, Italy, Finland, Ireland, Portugal and the Netherlands prohibit or severely restrict the use of embryonic stem cells, Greece, Sweden, Spain and the United Kingdom have created the legal basis to support this research. Belgium bans reproductive cloning but allows therapeutic cloning of embryos. France prohibits reproductive cloning and embryo creation for research purposes, but enacted laws (with a sunset provision expiring in 2009) to allow scientists to conduct stem cell research on imported a large amount of embryos from in vitro fertilization treatments. Germany has restrictive policies for stem cell research, but a 2008 law authorizes \"the use of imported stem cell lines produced before May 1, 2007.\" Italy has a 2004 law that forbids all sperm or egg donations and the freezing of embryos, but allows, in effect, using existing stem cell lines that have been imported. Sweden forbids reproductive cloning, but allows therapeutic cloning and authorized a stem cell bank.\n\nAccording to modern stem cell researchers, Spain is one of the leaders in stem cell research and currently has one of the most progressive legislations worldwide with respect to hESC research. The new Spanish law allows existing frozen embryos - of which there are estimated to be tens of thousands in Spain - to be kept for patient's future use, donated for another infertile couple, or used in research. In 2003, Spain's laws state that embryos left over from IVF and donated by the couple that created them can be used in research, including ES cell research, if they have been frozen for more than five years.\n\nIn 2001, the British Parliament amended the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 (since amended by the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008) to permit the destruction of embryos for hESC harvests but only if the research satisfies one of the following requirements:\n\n\nThe United Kingdom is one of the leaders in stem cell research, in the opinion of Lord Sainsbury, Science and Innovation Minister for the UK. A new £10 million stem cell research centre has been announced at the University of Cambridge.\n\nThe primary legislation in South Africa that deals with embryo research is the Human Tissue Act, which is set to be replaced by Chapter 8 of the National Health Act. The NHA Chapter 8 has been enacted by parliament, but not yet signed into force by the president. The process of finalising these regulations is still underway. The NHA Chapter 8 allows the Minister of Health to give permission for research on embryos not older than 14 days. The legislation on embryo research is complemented by the South African Medical Research Council's Ethics Guidelines. These Guidelines advise against the creation of embryos for the sole purpose of research. In the case of \"Christian Lawyers Association of South Africa & others v Minister of Health & others\" the court ruled that the Bill of Rights is not applicable to the unborn. It has therefore been argued based on constitutional grounds (the right to human dignity, and the right to freedom of scientific research) that the above limitations on embryo research are overly inhibitive of the autonomy of scientists, and hence unconstitutional.\n\nChina prohibits human reproductive cloning but allows the creation of human embryos for research and therapeutic purposes. India banned in 2004 reproductive cloning, permitted therapeutic cloning. In 2004, Japan’s Council for Science and Technology Policy voted to allow scientists to conduct stem cell research for therapeutic purposes, though formal guidelines have yet to be released. The South Korean government promotes therapeutic cloning, but forbids cloning. The Philippines prohibits human embryonic and aborted human fetal stem cells and their derivatives for human treatment\nand research. In 1999, Israel passed legislation banning reproductive, but not therapeutic, cloning. Saudi Arabia religious officials issued a decree that sanctions the use of embryos for therapeutic and research purposes. According to the Royan Institute for Reproductive Biomedicine, Iran has some of the most liberal laws on stem cell research and cloning. Laws and regulations in Jordan allow stem-cell research. A center for stem cell research has acquired a license to begin operating in April 2017 at the University of Jordan.\n\nBrazil has passed legislation to permit stem cell research using excess in vitro fertilized embryos that have been frozen for at least three years.\n\nFederal law places restrictions on funding and use of hES cells through amendments to the budget bill. In 2001, George W. Bush implemented a policy limiting the number of stem cell lines that could be used for research. There were some state laws concerning stem cells that were passed in the mid-2000s. New Jersey's 2004 S1909/A2840 specifically permitted human cloning for the purpose of developing and harvesting human stem cells, and Missouri's 2006 Amendment Two legalized certain forms of embryonic stem cell research in the state. On the other hand, Arkansas, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, North Dakota and South Dakota passed laws to prohibit the creation or destruction of human embryos for medical research.\n\nDuring Bush's second term, in July 2006, he used his first Presidential veto on the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act was the name of two similar bills, and both were vetoed by President George W. Bush and were not enacted into law. New Jersey congressman Chris Smith wrote a Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005, which made some narrow exceptions, and was signed into law by President George W. Bush.\n\nIn November 2004, California voters approved Proposition 71, creating a US$3 billion state taxpayer-funded institute for stem cell research, the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine. It hopes to provide $300 million a year.\n\nBarack Obama removed the restriction of federal funding passed by Bush in 2001, which only allowed funding on the 21 cell lines already created. However, the Dickey Amendment to the budget, The Omnibus Appropriations Act of 2009, still bans federal funding of creating new cell lines. In other words, the federal government will now fund research which uses the hundreds of more lines created by public and private funds.\n\nIn March 2002, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research announced the first ever guidelines for human pluripotent stem cell research in Canada. The federal granting agencies, CIHR, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council, and Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada teamed up and agreed that no research with human IPSCs would be funded without review and approval from the Stem Cell Oversight Committee (SCOC).\n\nIn March 2004, Canadian parliament enacted the Assisted Human Reproduction Act (AHRA), modeled on the United Kingdom’s Human Fertilization and Embryology Act of 1990. Highlights of the act include prohibitions against the creation of embryos for research purposes and the criminalization of commercial transactions in human reproductive tissues.\n\nIn 2005, Canada enacted a law permitting research on discarded embryos from in vitro fertilization procedures. However, it prohibits the \"creation\" of human embryos for research.\n\nOn June 30, 2010, The Updated Guidelines for Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Research outline that: \n\nCanada's National Embryonic Stem Cell Registry:\n\nAustralia is partially supportive (exempting reproductive cloning yet allowing research on embryonic stem cells that are derived from the process of IVF). New Zealand, however, restricts stem cell research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50226609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50226609", "title": "Taxes on knowledge", "text": "Taxes on knowledge\n\nTaxes on knowledge was a slogan defining an extended British campaign against duties and taxes on newspapers, their advertising content, and the paper they were printed on. The paper tax was early identified as an issue: \"A tax upon Paper, is a tax upon Knowledge\" is a saying attributed to Alexander Adam (1741–1809), a Scottish headmaster.\n\nThe \"taxes on knowledge\" were at their peak in 1815, as the Napoleonic Wars ended. The Liverpool administration actively discouraged certain sections of the press, with prosecutions, including those for seditious libel, aimed at editors and writers. The principle of taxing publications and pamphlets had been introduced by an Act of 1712, at the level of a halfpenny (½\"d\".). The duty had risen over time to 4\"d\".\n\nThe Newspaper and Stamp Duties Act of 1819 was not very effective in controlling the circulation of news, but cramped the development of newspapers. It was aimed at the journalism of William Cobbett, the Hunt brothers (\"The Examiner\"), and Thomas Jonathan Wooler (\"The Black Dwarf\"). From 1819, \"newspaper\" was defined carefully, and the fiscal burden fell on all periodicals that were more frequently published than monthly, and priced below 6\"d\". It had a negative effect on the English provincial press, i.e. newspapers outside London; and drove out cheap political papers.\n\nStamp duty was levied on newspapers, and the first phase of the campaign was the distribution of newspapers that were unstamped, and therefore illegal. A central figure of this \"war of the unstamped\" was Henry Hetherington. His unstamped paper, \"The Poor Man's Guardian\", was launched in 1831. It tested the boundaries of the government's willingness to enforce the duty, recruiting hundreds of paper sellers and flaunting its illegal status. The National Union of the Working Classes took up the attack on \"taxes on knowledge\"; it had an Owenite background, with the British Association for Promoting Co-operative Knowledge founded in 1829.\n\nThe Whig government of the time faced the opinion of Lord Brougham, Lord Chancellor from 1830 to 1834, that newspapers should be available for 1\"d\"., rather than 7\"d\". John Crawfurd in 1836 attempted an account of the \"taxes on knowledge\" total, including amounts for taxation of paper and advertisements, and postal charges.\n\nThe \"war of the unstamped\" saw nearly 800 people imprisoned. In 1834 the stamp duty was abolished on pamphlets; and in 1836 newspaper duty was reduced to 1\"d\"., from 4\"d\"., by Thomas Spring Rice as Chancellor of the Exchequer. On the other hand the penalties for evasion of the duties were made more serious, and the definition of periodicals in the scope of the duty was broadened. The measures did not make for a cheap press or a free one.\n\nFigures for number of stamps issued for newspapers are: 1801 16,085,085; 1824 26,308,003; 1837 53,897,926; 1846 78,298,125. The year 1836 also saw the creation of the Provincial Newspaper Society, a trade association later called the Newspaper Society, which came to oppose further fiscal reform, as did \"The Times\".\n\nJohn Francis of \"The Athenaeum\" was a persistent campaigner against taxes affecting publications, as they stood in the later 1830s, including paper duty at 1½\"d\". per pound, and advertisement duty at a flat rate of 1\"s\". 6\"d\". Advertising duty had been cut in 1833: before that it had stood at 3\"s\". 6\"d\"; paper duty had been 3\"d\". per pound to 1837. Charles Knight the publisher of the Library of Useful Knowledge wanted paper duty abolished, but saw reason in the newspaper duty to avoid a popular radical press. The shortlived Association of Working Men to Procure a Cheap and Honest Press of early 1836 in effect became in a matter of months the London Working Men's Association. \n\nHetherington and William Lovett advocated, within the Chartist movement, a Knowledge Chartism, or gradualist approach to complete repeal of the taxes on knowledge and building of popular education. Their direction was forthrightly condemned by Feargus O'Connor. In line with O'Connor's views, the taxes on knowledge were marginal to the main thrust of a decade Chartist agitation, until the late 1840s. Varieties of Knowledge Chartism were displayed in the 1840s by Joseph Barker (the \"Barker Library\"), Samuel Smiles (self-help), and John Epps (opposition to medical jargon).\n\nThe campaign against \"taxes on knowledge\" made further progress in the 1850s, after more fundamental Chartist political agitation dropped back. The People's Charter Union of 1848 was set up primarily to oppose O'Connor. It had as treasurer Richard Moore, who conducted a steady activist role in the abolition of the newspaper stamp duty. Via the intermediate National Stamp Abolition Committee, by making the central organisational vehicle the new Association for Promoting the Repeal of Taxes on Knowledge (APRTOK, also called Society for the Repeal of the Taxes on Knowledge) he was able to involve Richard Cobden. Cobden had already publicised in 1848 his wish to remove some of the taxes.\n\nThe successful drive for reform was recognised by William Edwin Adams as \"a twelve years' agitation\". Secretary of APRTOK was Collet Dobson Collet. The President from 1850 was Thomas Milner Gibson. John Watts researched parliamentary questions for Milner Gibson, the Member of Parliament who chaired the 1851 Select Committee on Newspaper Stamps, but who then fell foul of Jeremiah Garnett, editor of the \"Manchester Guardian\". Milner Gibson commented that Garnett \"was a free trader who did not like free trade in newspapers\".\n\nAdvertisement duty was abolished in 1853, followed by newspaper stamp duty in 1855. The paper duty was removed in 1861. William Gladstone, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, repealed the paper duties, but only after a false start in 1860, when the House of Lords rejected his bill, against conventions on financial issues. The following year Gladstone returned to the measure, consolidated into a Budget Finance Bill, the first such: the Lords chose not to reject the Budget as a whole.\n\nThe repeal of \"taxes on knowledge\" was one factor in a number promoting an increase of publications in the United Kingdom, in the second half of the 19th century. In brief, the British press took on a role as mass media.\n\nThe first paper to derive a clear benefit from the fiscal changes was \"The Daily Telegraph\". It was launched in 1855, a penny paper out of many that appeared. The \"Saturday Review\" was a weekly magazine, also set up in 1855, and which featured new authors. New provincial daily newspapers were also seen.\n\n\"The Bookseller\" in April 1861, just before the repeal of the paper duty, gave statistics on London newspapers: in 1830 there had been 64, of which three were for a working-class readership; in 1860 there were 177, eight being for the working classes. These numbers were attributed to John Francis. Total weekly circulation (i.e. issues, rather than readers) had risen from 399,747 to 2,284,600.\n\nNewspaper reading habits changed, towards purchase and reading at home. The older habits—the use of a reading room, club or newsroom with newspapers, the hire of a paper by the hour in a public house—began to fall away.\n"}
{"id": "5447286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447286", "title": "Title retention clause", "text": "Title retention clause\n\nA retention of title clause (also called a \"Romalpa\" clause in some jurisdictions) is a provision in a contract for the sale of goods that the title to the goods remains vested in the seller until certain obligations (usually payment of the purchase price) are fulfilled by the buyer.\n\nThe main purpose of retention of title (\"ROT\") clauses is to ensure that where goods are supplied on credit, if the buyer subsequently goes into bankruptcy, the seller can repossess the goods. They are often seen as a natural extension of the credit economy; where suppliers are expected to sell goods on credit, there is a reasonable expectation that if they are not paid they should be able to repossess the goods. Nonetheless, in a number of jurisdictions, insolvency regimes or credit arrangement regimes prevent title retention clauses from being enforced where doing so would upset administration of the regime.\n\nRetention of title clauses are mandated in the European Union by Article 9 of the Late Payments Directive, and sellers' ROT rights are recognized by Article 7 of the Insolvency Regulation.\n\nEspecially prevalent in Germany, these clauses are permitted in the United Kingdom by s.19 of the \"Sale of Goods Act 1979\", which expanded upon the 1976 judgment of the Court of Appeal of England and Wales in \"Aluminium Industrie Vaassen BV v Romalpa Aluminium Ltd\".\n\nIn contrast to English law, the common-law jurisdictions in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States have instituted the concept of \"security interest\", under which ROT clauses may need to be registered in order to have effect:\n\nAlthough title retention clauses are conceptually very simple, they have become increasingly widely drafted, which has resulted in the courts in a number of countries striking down the clauses, or recharacterising them as the grant of a security interest. It has consequentially been noted that \"the practical outcome of a series of later cases has put it beyond doubt that 'extended' title reservation clauses will not work.\" Several particular problems have been identified:\n\nRetention of title clauses will obviously vary from country to country, and even within countries they will usually be specialised to the form of industry used in, and the type of goods which are sold. The following are just two examples of the types of clause which can be seen.\n\n\"A shorter form clause:\"\n\n\"A longer form clause:\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1529479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529479", "title": "Treehouse of Horror IV", "text": "Treehouse of Horror IV\n\n\"Treehouse of Horror IV\" is the fifth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> fifth season and the fourth episode in the \"Treehouse of Horror\" series of Halloween specials. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on October 28, 1993, and features three short stories called \"The Devil and Homer Simpson\", \"Terror at Feet\", and \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\". The episode was directed by David Silverman and co-written by Conan O'Brien, Bill Oakley, Josh Weinstein, Greg Daniels, Dan McGrath, and Bill Canterbury.\n\nIn \"The Devil and Homer Simpson\", Homer Simpson announces he would sell his soul for a doughnut, and the Devil appears to make a deal with Homer. Homer tries to outsmart the Devil by not finishing the doughnut but eventually eats it and is sent to Hell. A trial is held between Homer and the Devil to determine the rightful owner of Homer's soul. In \"Terror at Feet\", while riding the bus to school, Bart Simpson believes he sees a gremlin taking apart the bus piece by piece. Nobody sees it except for Bart, so he tries to remove it on his own. In \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\", Mr. Burns is a vampire and Bart falls victim to his bite. Lisa and the rest of the family go to Burns' castle to kill Burns so Bart can return to normal.\n\nAs with the rest of the Halloween specials, the episode is considered non-canon and falls outside the show's regular continuity. The episode makes cultural references to television series such as \"The Twilight Zone\", \"Night Gallery\", and \"Peanuts\". References are also made to films such as \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\" and \"The Lost Boys\". Since airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 14.5, and was the highest-rated show on the Fox network the week it aired.\n\nBart introduces each of the three segments by walking through a gallery of paintings and each time choosing one of them as the focus of his story.\n\nIn a parody of \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\", at work, Homer states that he would sell his soul for a doughnut after finding that Lenny and Carl took all the doughnuts and threw them at an old man (Grampa) \"for kicks\". The devil, revealed to be Ned Flanders, appears and offers Homer a contract to seal the deal. However, before Homer finishes the doughnut, he realizes that Ned will not be able to have his soul if he does not eat all of the doughnut and keeps the final piece in the refrigerator. Unfortunately, while half-asleep and looking for a midnight snack, he eats the final piece of the \"forbidden donut\", and Ned instantly reappears to take possession of Homer's soul. Marge and Lisa plead with Ned, finally getting him to agree to hold a trial the next day. Until then, Homer is sent to spend the rest of the day being punished in Hell. At the stroke of twelve midnight, Ned brings Homer back to the Simpson household for his trial. Then, when the Simpsons' lawyer, Lionel Hutz, flees after ruining his case, Marge makes a final effort to save Homer by displaying a photo from their wedding day. On the back of the photo, Homer has written that, in return for Marge giving him her hand in marriage, he pledges his soul to her forever; therefore, it was not his property to sell at the time of his deal with Ned. The jury rules in favor of the Simpsons and the presiding judge dismisses the case. Enraged, the Devil leaves, but gets his revenge by turning Homer's head into a doughnut.\n\nIn a parody of the \"Twilight Zone\" episode \"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\" including the final segment in \"\", after having a nightmare in which he is killed in a bus crash, Bart rides the bus to school one rainy morning. He panics when he sees a gremlin on the side of the bus loosening the lug nuts on one of the wheels. Bart unsuccessfully tries to convince the other passengers of the danger. In desperation, Bart climbs halfway out the window to scare off the gremlin with an emergency flare. The gremlin catches fire and falls from the bus, but is found by Ned, who decides to adopt the creature. When the bus finally stops, everyone sees the obvious damage, but Bart is still sent away to an insane asylum for the rest of his life for his disruptive behavior. Bart is relieved as he is finally able to rest, but the gremlin appears in the back window of the ambulance, holding Flanders' decapitated (yet still living) head, which makes Bart scream in terror.\n\nIn a parody of \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\", after a news story about several vampire attacks, Lisa begins to suspect that Mr. Burns is a vampire, but the rest of the family dismisses her concerns. The family is invited to Mr. Burns' castle in Pennsylvania, where Bart and Lisa discover a secret staircase descending to an eerie basement filled with coffins. As they investigate, vampires emerge from the coffins and encircle them. Lisa escapes, but Bart activates the \"Super Fun Happy Slide\", causing him to be captured and get bitten by Mr. Burns. Lisa tries to warn her parents, but Burns reappears with Bart who is now very pale and is behaving oddly. But these factors get little attention by the family. Later that night, Lisa is awakened by a now undead Bart and his vampire friends. When Bart is about to bite Lisa, Homer and Marge interrupt and discover that Bart is a vampire. Lisa claims that the only way to restore him is to kill the head vampire, Mr. Burns. The family returns to Mr. Burns' mansion, where Homer drives a stake through Mr. Burns' heart. The next morning, however, Lisa discovers that everyone in the Simpson family except for herself is a vampire, and that the true head vampire is inexplicably Marge, not Mr. Burns. With this revelation, the whole entire family swoops in on Lisa, only to stop, break character, and wish everyone a happy Halloween. Then, they all harmonize \"Hark the Herald Angels Sing\", parodying \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\".\n\n\"Treehouse of Horror IV\" was directed by David Silverman and co-written by Conan O'Brien, Bill Oakley, Josh Weinstein, Greg Daniels, Dan McGrath, and Bill Canterbury. It is the fourth episode of the annual \"Treehouse of Horror\" Halloween specials. As with the rest of the Halloween specials, the episode is considered non-canon and falls outside the show's regular continuity. O'Brien worked on the \"wraparounds\" of Bart introducing each segment to make sure that they \"pulled\" the episode together. The wraparounds are based on Rod Serling's television series \"Night Gallery\", in which Serling appears at an art gallery and introduces each episode by unveiling paintings depicting the stories. Executive producer James L. Brooks loved the show, so it was \"great fun\" for him to do the parody. Show runner David Mirkin thought the \"Treehouse of Horror\" episodes were the hardest episodes to do because the staff had to fit in all three stories in only 22 minutes. Mirkin said, \"Things had to happen really fast. They're really just crammed with jokes and story beats and everything.\"\n\nThe first segment, \"The Devil and Homer Simpson\", was written by Daniels and McGrath. The first time Devil Flanders appears, he looks the same as the devil Chernabog from the 1940 Walt Disney produced film \"Fantasia\"; Silverman particularly admired the animation in that sequence. Oakley loved the idea of Flanders being the Devil because he was the character whom viewers would least expect. He also thought Harry Shearer did a good job of playing Flanders in a much darker way, while remaining very true to the character. Many scenes had to be cut to shorten the segment, including one that showed Homer's severed head being used as a bowling ball by a demon in hell. This scene later appeared in the clip show episode \"The Simpsons 138th Episode Spectacular\", which aired in the show's seventh season.\n\nThe second segment, \"Terror at Feet\", was written by Oakley and Weinstein. It was inspired by an episode of \"The Twilight Zone\" called \"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\", in which William Shatner's character is inside an airplane watching a gremlin tear apart the wing. Silverman watched the episode to get inspiration for Bart's facial expressions. Oakley said there was a lot of work put into the design of the gremlin in \"Terror at Feet\" to make him scary \"within \"The Simpsons\" universe\". Mirkin said he felt the gremlin was well-done because he looked scary and \"yet it looks like a completely organic \"Simpsons\" character\". Üter, a character from Germany, makes his first appearance on the show in this segment; he was conceived as a one-time joke, but reappeared in later episodes because Mirkin felt he was \"such a perfect stereotype\".\n\nThe third segment, \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\", was written by Canterbury. It is based on Francis Ford Coppola's film \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\". Mirkin was a big fan of the film and pushed for a segment about vampires inspired by the movie. He liked the final result and felt Mr. Burns was perfect in the role as Dracula. Dracula and his castle was designed by Silverman. Mirkin, a \"big\" \"Peanuts\" fan, came up with the idea for the ending of \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\".\n\nThe wraparound segments are a reference to Rod Serling's television series \"Night Gallery\". \"Terror at Feet\" is a parody of the final segment seen in \"\" and \"The Twilight Zone\" episode \"Nightmare at 20,000 Feet\". The title and a majority of the plot of \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\" is a parody of the Francis Ford Coppola film \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\". The ending of \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\" is a reference to \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\".\n\nThe demon who is feeding Homer donuts says: \"I don't understand it. James Coco went mad in fifteen minutes!\", referencing an actor who received attention for his culinary talents and best-selling cookbooks. The jury at Homer's trial consists of John Wilkes Booth, Lizzie Borden, John Dillinger, Blackbeard, Benedict Arnold, the starting lineup of the 1976 Philadelphia Flyers, and Richard Nixon. The first time the Devil appears, he resembles the demon Chernabog from the Walt Disney film \"Fantasia\", especially after Homer discovers a technicality and starts taunting the Devil that he's \"smarter than the devil\", until the Devil turns into the Chernabog-esque demon and glares at him before disappearing. The scene in Hell where Homer is fed all the doughnuts in the world, and asks for more, is a direct parody of the cartoon \"Pigs is Pigs\", in which a generic pig character (a Porky Pig-esque character) known for being a glutton is taken in by a scientist and forced to eat all the food in the world. At Mr. Burns' castle, Lisa notices a tome resting on a stand in the basement. She runs over and reads the title: \"Yes, I Am a Vampire, by Monty Burns. Foreword by Steve Allen,\" a reference to American actor Steve Allen. Shortly after she finds the tome, she makes allusions to Shemp and Curly Howard of the Three Stooges, mistaking Bart's fearful attempts at getting her attention as impressions of the two. In \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\", Bart is seen floating outside Lisa's bedroom window. This is a parody of \"The Lost Boys\" as well as Stephen King's novel \"Salem's Lot\". The family's plan to kill the head vampire is also a reference to both the film and novel. In particular, the twist revelation that Burns is not the head vampire is also a reference to the twist ending of \"The Lost Boys\". The closing credits of the episode features a version of the \"Simpsons\" theme that is a combination of the instruments used in \"The Munsters\" theme song and the harpsichord and clicking from \"The Addams Family\" theme song.\n\nIn its original American broadcast, \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" finished 17th in the ratings for the week of October 25 to October 31, 1993, with a Nielsen rating of 14.5, translating to 13.6 million households. The episode was the highest-rated show on the Fox network that week.\n\nSince airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, said the episode included many notable sequences and was \"probably the best\" \"Treehouses of Horror\" episode. They particularly liked the scenes in Hell where Homer is punished by the Devil, and Chief Wiggum's attempts to deal with Dracula (who he thinks is a mummy) in the \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\" segment by ordering the Egyptian wing of the Springfield museum to be destroyed. DVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson thought \"Terror at Feet\" was the best segment of the episode. Jacobson praised \"The Devil and Homer Simpson\" as clever funny, and described \"Bart Simpson's Dracula\" as \"easily the least effective\", claiming it, \"presents some good moments but never quite takes flight\". Patrick Bromley of DVD Verdict gave the episode an A grade and called it \"one of the very best\" Halloween specials, although said \"Treehouse of Horror V\" was better. \"Central Michigan Life\"s John Thorpe named it the tenth best episode of the series, and wrote: \"The best part comes when Homer decides not to eat the last part of the doughnut, thus saving him from hell. Hilarious.\" DVD Talk's Bill Gibron gave the episode a 4 out of 5 score.\n\nKim Nowacki of \"Yakima Herald-Republic\" named \"Treehouse of Horror IV\" her \"all-time favorite\" episode. She praised the parodies of \"The Twilight Zone\" and \"A Charlie Brown Christmas\". The episode's reference to \"Bram Stoker's Dracula\" was named the 32nd greatest film reference in the history of the show by \"Total Film\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Nathan Ditum.\n\n"}
{"id": "24646466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24646466", "title": "Tulane Journal of Technology and Intellectual Property", "text": "Tulane Journal of Technology and Intellectual Property\n\nThe Tulane Journal of Technology and Intellectual Property (JTIP) is a student-edited journal of the Tulane University Law School. JTIP examines legal issues relating to technology, including topics such as antitrust, computer law, contracts, constitutional law, copyrights, information privacy, patents, torts, trade secrets, trademarks, and all other policy implications of law and technology in society.\n\nJTIP's editorial members are second- and third-year law students who work under the guidance of faculty advisors. Membership is determined by an annual write-on competition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28333057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28333057", "title": "Wilhelm Endemann", "text": "Wilhelm Endemann\n\nWilhelm Endemann (24 April 1825, in Marburg – 13 June 1899, in Cassel) was a German jurist.\n\nThe parents of Endemanns were the jurist Konrad Endemann and his wife Charlotte Wilhelmine née Grau. A brother was Friedrich Carl Endemann, Vice-mayor of Kassel and member of Reichstag.\nIn 1856 he married Katinka Pult in Fulda. One son was Friedrich Endemann (1857-1936).\n\nHe was educated at the universities of Marburg and Heidelberg, became a professor of law at the University of Jena in 1862, then later assumed the same position at the University of Bonn in 1875. From 1871 to 1873 he was a member of the Reichstag. He became one of the greatest authorities on the commercial law of Germany.\n\nHis works on jurisprudence include:\n\n"}
